=Under glass.=--I would strongly advise that soil for tomatoes, whether it is to be used in
solid beds or in pots or boxes, be thoroughly sterilized by piling it not over 15 inches deep
or wide over iron pipes perforated with two lines of holes about one-sixteenth inch in diameter
and 2 inches apart and filled with steam for at least a half hour. It can be sterilized, but
far less effectively, by thorough wetting with boiling water. It should always be well stirred
and aired before the plants are set in it.

=Starting plants.=--From about the latitude of New York city southward, it is possible to secure
large yields from plants grown from seed sown in place in the field, and one often sees volunteer
plants which have sprung up as weeds carrying as much or more fruit than most carefully grown
transplanted ones beside them. In many sections tomatoes are grown in large areas for canning
factories, and as a farm rather than a market garden crop, individual farmers planting from
10 to 100 acres; and to start and transplant to the field the 25,000 to 30,000 plants necessary
for a ten-acre field seems a great undertaking. Tomato plants, however, when young, are of
rather weak and tender growth, and need more careful culture than can be readily given in the
open field; and, again, the demand of the market, even at the canning factories, is for delivery
of the crop earlier than it can be produced by sowing the seed in the field.

For these reasons it is almost the universal custom of successful growers to use plants started
under glass or in seed-beds where conditions of heat and moisture can be somewhat under control.
I believe, however, that the failure to secure a maximum yield is more often due to defective
methods of starting, handling and setting the plants than to any other single cause. In sections
where tomatoes are largely grown there are usually men who make a business of starting plants
and offering them for sale at prices running from $1 or even as low as 40 cents, up to $8 and
$10 a 1,000, according to their age and the way they are grown; but generally, it will be found
more advantageous for the planter to start his plants on or near the field where they are to
be grown.

=Tomato plants from cuttings= may be easily grown, but such plants, when planted in the open
ground, do not yield as much fruit as seedlings nor is this apt to be of so good quality; so
that, in practice, seedlings only are used for outside crops. Under glass, plants from cuttings
do relatively better and some growers prefer them, as they commence to fruit earlier and do
not make so rank a growth.

Seedlings can be most easily started and grown, at least up to the time of pricking out, in
light, well-ventilated greenhouses, and many large growers have them for this specific purpose.
Houses for starting tomato plants should be so situated as to be fully exposed to the sun and
not shaded in any way; be provided with heating apparatus by which a night temperature of 60
and up to one of 80° F. in the day can be maintained even in the coldest weather and darkest
days likely to occur for 60 to 90 days before the plants can be safely set out in the open
field; and the houses should be well glazed and ventilated.

Houses well suited for this purpose are often built of hotbed sash with no frame but a simple
ridge-board and sides 1 or 2 feet high, head room being gained by a central sunken path and
the sash so fastened in place that they may be easily lifted to give ventilation or entirely
removed to give full exposure to sunshine, or for storing when the house is not needed. Hotbed
sash 3×6 feet with side-bars projecting at the ends to facilitate fastening them in place are
usually kept by dealers, who offer them at from $1.50 to $3 each, according to the quality
of the material used.

A hot water heating apparatus is the best, but often one can use a brick furnace or an iron
heating stove, connected with a flue of sewer or drain-pipe that will answer very well and
cost much less. It requires but 6 to 10 square feet of bench to start plants enough for an
acre, and a house costing only from $25 to $50 will enable one to grow plants enough for 20
acres up to the stage when they can be pricked out into sash or cloth-covered cold-frames in
which they can be grown on to the size best suited for setting in the field. When a grower
plants less than 5 acres it is often better for him to sow his seed in flats or shallow boxes
and arrange to have these cared for in some neighboring greenhouse for the 10 to 20 days before
they can be pricked out.

CHAPTER IX

Hotbeds and Cold-frames

Plants can be advantageously started and even grown on to the size for setting in open ground
in hotbeds. In building these of manure it is important to select a spot where there is no
danger of standing water, even after the heaviest rains, and it is well to remove the soil
to a depth of 6 inches or 1 foot from a space about 2 feet larger each way than the bed and
to build the manure up squarely to a hight of 2 to 3 feet. It is also very important that the
bed of manure be of uniform composition as regards mixture of straw and also as to age, density
and moisture, so as to secure uniformity in heating. This can be accomplished by shaking out
and evenly spreading each forkful and repeatedly and evenly tramping down as the bed is built
up. Unless this work is well and carefully done the bed will heat and settle unevenly, making
it impossible to secure uniformity of growth in different parts.

Hotbed frames should be of a size to carry four to six 3×6-foot sash, and made of lumber so
fastened together that they can be easily knocked apart and stored when not in use. They should
be about 10 inches high in front and 16 or 18 inches at the back, care being taken that if
the back is made of two boards one of them be narrow and at the bottom so that the crack between
them can be covered by banking up with manure or earth. In placing them on the manure short
pieces of board should be laid under the corners to prevent their settling in the manure unevenly.
I prefer to sow the seed in flats or shallow boxes filled with rich but sandy and very friable
soil, and set these on a layer of sifted coal ashes covering the manure and made perfectly
level, but many growers sow on soil resting directly on the manure; if this is done the soil
should be light and friable and made perfectly level. A perspective view of a three-sash hotbed
is given in Fig. 13, and of a cross-section in Fig. 14.

In some sections, particularly in the South, it is not always easy to procure suitable manure
for making hotbeds, so these are built to be warmed by flues under ground, but I think it much
better where a fire is to be used that the sash be built into the form of a house. A hotbed
of manure is preferred to a house by some because of its supplying uniform and moist bottom
heat--and one can easily give abundant air; but the sash can be built into the form of a house
at but little more expense, and it has the great advantage of enabling one to work among the
plants in any weather, while, if properly built, any desired degree of heat and ventilation
can be easily secured. Except when very early ripening fruit is the desideratum, plants started
with heat but pricked out and grown in cold-frames without it, but where they can be protected
during cold nights and storms, will give better results than those grown to full size for the
field in artificial heat.

=Cold-frames.=--In locations where tomatoes are much grown large areas are devoted to cold-frames
covered either by sash or cloth curtains. Sash give much better protection from cold and on
this account are more desirable, particularly where very early fruiting is wanted, but their
first cost is much greater and the labor of attending to beds covered by them is much more
than where cloth is used. Sash-covered beds should be of single width and run east and west,
but if the beds are covered with cloth it is better that they be double width (12 feet) and
run north and south. The front of the single and the sides of the double width beds should
be 8 to 10 inches high, held firmly erect by stakes and perfectly parallel, both horizontally
and vertically, with the back or with the central support. This should be 6 inches higher than
the front. The cross strips, when sash are used, should be made of a 3-inch horizontal and
a 1-1/2-inch vertical strip of 1-inch lumber nailed together very firmly in the form of an
inverted T, the vertical pieces projecting 1 inch at each end and resting on the front and
back of the bed and forming supports and guides for the sash. Some growers use vertical strips
as heavy as 2×3 or 4 inches for stepping across the beds. When the plants are to be taken to
the field, the sash and guides can be easily removed. (Fig. 15.)

Ground to be covered with cold-frames should be made very friable and rich by repeated plowing
and working in of a liberal dressing of well-rotted stable manure and wood ashes. In southwestern
New Jersey, where immense areas of early tomatoes are grown, the soil of the beds for a depth
of about 6 inches is removed and a layer 3 to 5 inches deep of well-rotted stable manure is
placed in. That made of a mixture of manure from horses, cattle and hogs is preferred. It is
important that the manure be so well rotted that it will not heat, and so dry that it will
not become pasty when tramped into a firm, level layer. On this they place a layer of nearly
3 inches deep of rich, friable, moderately compact soil and prick out the plants into this.
The roots soon bind the manure and soil together and by cutting through the manure so as to
form blocks one can carry the plants to the fields with but very little disturbance of the root.

=Cloth covers for beds= should be made of heavy, unbleached sheeting or light duck, and it
is better that the selvage run up and down the bed rather than lengthwise. The cloth is torn
into lengths of about 13 feet and then sewn together with a narrow double-stitched flat seam
so as to form a sheet 13 feet wide and about 8 inches longer than the bed. The edges are tacked
every foot to the strips about 2 inches wide by 7/8 inch thick with beveled outside edges and
laid perfectly in line. A second line of strips is then nailed to the first so as to break
joints with it and so that the two will form a continuous roller about a foot longer than the
bed with the edge of the curtain firmly fastened in its center. The center of the curtain is
secured to the central ridge of the bed by strips of lath. When rolled up, the rollers are
held in place by loops of rope around their ends and when they are down they are held by similar
loops to the notched tent-pins driven into the ground or to wooden buttons fastened to the
sides and ends of the frame as shown in Fig. 16.

Cloth covers are sometimes dressed with oil, but this is not to be recommended, though it is
an advantage to have them wet occasionally with a weak solution of copper sulphate or with
sea water as a preservative and to prevent mildew. Such covers, well cared for, may last five
years or be of little use after the first, depending upon the care given them. They can be
made from 50 to 200 feet long and two men can roll them up or down very quickly.

