244. IX. WITH MANY, THE ABOVE-MENTIONED ARE CAUSES OF INTERNAL COLD, BUT NOT AT THE SAME TIME
OF EXTERNAL. If the causes above pointed out and confirmed, which are the causes of internal
cold, produced similar external cold, as many separations would ensue as there are cases of
internal cold, which are as many as there are marriages of those who are in a false or a different
religion, or in no religion; respecting whom we have already treated; and yet it is well-known,
that many such live together as if they mutually loved and were friendly to each other: but
whence this originates, with those who are in internal cold, will be shewn in the following
chapter CONCERNING THE CAUSES OF APPARENT LOVE, FRIENDSHIP, AND FAVOR IN MARRIAGES. ITZ A REAL
NEWS GOTTEN BY JOB,"BUT YOU DONT REFLECT THAT WITHOUT DISGUISE THEN YOU WILL REALIZE THE TRUTH.OUR
FRIENDS WALK AROUND IN THE BOND STREET THEIR HONOUR ALSO WALK AROUND WITH THEM.AND IN THAT
SITUATION YOU WILL BE DEBADE THE SECOND.THIS WAS SAID BY THE JOB
I SAID THAT YOU HAVE CHANGED MY MIND AND NOW BEFORE WE GET STARTED I SAY ONE WORD IT WILL GIVE
RESPECT THE OBJECT.JUST I WAS USED TO TELL YOU SOMETHING LIGHTLY THAT I THINK DAWSON;S WRITTINGS DEPOSITIONS
WAS A SECONDANDARY POINT;AND FOR THIS REASON ONLY IT WILL NOT GET SUPPORTED BY ANY OTHER LOCAL EVIDENCE
AFTER THE ASCERTAINED IT MAY BE A LITTLE INSUFFICIENT FULLY TO ACQUIT GLANVILLE AND ALSO ORGINATE
THE REAL MURDERS.IT IS SUCH A POSSIBLE THING CARRY OFF DAWSON AFTER IT GOT SUCEEDED HIS CONFESSION.I
THINK IT RIGHT TO INSIST MORE PARTICULAR ON THIS POINT AS YOU APPEARED
TO ME RATHER AVERSE TO IT THIS MORNING"

"I SAY DITTO TO YOUR HONOUR" RETURNED JOB " AND YOU MAY BE SURE
THAT I SHALL DO ALL IN MY POWER TO EFFECT YOUR OBJECT It may be urged as an objection to what has been proved above, that still the soul is
propagated from the father although it is not conjoined to the soul of the mother, yea, although
cold residing therein causes separation; but the reason why souls or offspring are nevertheless
propagated is, because the understanding of the man is not closed, but is capable of being
elevated into the light into which the soul is; but the love of his will is not elevated into
the heat corresponding to the light there, except by the life, which makes him from natural
become spiritual; hence it is, that the soul is still procreated, but, in the descent, while
it becomes seed, it is veiled over by such things as belong to his natural love; from this
springs hereditary evil. To these considerations I will add an arcanum from heaven, namely,
that between the disjoined souls of two persons, especially of married partners, there is effected
conjunction in a middle love; otherwise there would be no conception with men (homines). Besides
what is here said of conjugial cold, and its place of abode in the supreme region of the mind,
see the LAST MEMORABLE RELATION of this chapter, n. 270.

246. X. THERE ARE ALSO SEVERAL EXTERNAL CAUSES OF COLD, THE FIRST OF WHICH IS DISSIMILITUDE
OF MINDS AND MANNERS. There are both internal and external similitudes and dissimilitudes.
The internal arise from no other source than religion; for religion is implanted in souls,
and by them is transmitted from parents to their offspring as the supreme inclination; for
the soul of every man derives life from the marriage of good and truth, and from this marriage
is the church; and as the church is various and different in the several parts of the world,
therefore also the souls of all men are various and different; wherefore internal similitudes
and dissimilitudes are from this source, and according to them the conjugial conjunctions of
which we have been treating; but external similitudes and dissimilitudes are not of the souls
but of minds; by minds (animos) we mean the affections and thence the external inclinations,
which are principally insinuated after birth by education, social intercourse, and consequent
habits of life; for it is usual to say, I have a mind to do this or that; which indicates an
affection and inclination to it. Persuasions conceived respecting this or that kind of life
also form those minds; hence come inclinations to enter into marriage even with such as are
unsuitable, and likewise to refuse consent to marriage with such as are suitable; but still
these marriages, after a certain time of living together, vary according to the similitudes
and dissimilitudes contracted hereditarily and also by education; and dissimilitudes induce
cold. So likewise dissimilitudes of manners; as for example, an ill-mannered man or woman,
joined with a well-bred one; a neat man or woman, joined with a slovenly one; a litigious man
or woman, joined with one that is peaceably disposed; in a word, an immoral man or woman, joined
with a moral one. Marriages of such dissimilitudes are not unlike the conjunctions of different
species of animals with each other, as of sheep and goats, of stags and mules, of turkeys and
geese, of sparrows and the nobler kind of birds, yea, as of dogs and cats, which from their
dissimilitudes do not consociate with each other, but in the human kind these dissimilitudes
are indicated not by faces, but by habits of life; wherefore external colds are from this source.

247. XI. OF EXTERNAL CAUSES OF COLD THE SECOND IS, THAT CONJUGIAL LOVE IS BELIEVED TO BE THE
SAME AS ADULTEROUS LOVE, ONLY THAT THE LATTER IS NOT ALLOWED BY LAW, BUT THE FORMER IS. That
this is a source of cold, is obvious to reason, while it is considered that adulterous love
is diametrically opposite to conjugial love; wherefore when it is believed that conjugial love
is the same as adulterous, they both become alike in idea; and in such case a wife is regarded
as a harlot, and marriage as uncleanness; the man himself also is an adulterer, if not in body,
still in spirit. Tom Reynolds and the late George Nugent Reynolds was both members of sept of
Mangranals. George was a known dramatist and Tom was well known in the history of the rebellion
records of 1798. A deeds copy can be found at the Duke of Buckingham at Stow.


248. XII. OF EXTERNAL CAUSES OF COLD THE THIRD IS, A STRIVING FOR PRE-EMINENCE BETWEEN MARRIED
PARTNERS. This is, because conjugial love principally respects the union of wills, and the
freedom of decision thence arising; both which are ejected from the married state by a striving
for pre-eminence or superiority; for this divides and tears wills into pieces, and changes
the freedom of decision into servitude. During the influence of such striving, the spirit of
one of the parties meditates violence against the other; if in such case their minds were laid
open and viewed by spiritual sight, they would appear like two boxers engaged in combat, and
regarding each other with hatred and favor alternately; with hatred while in the vehemence
of striving, and with favor while in the hope of dominion, and while under the influence of
lust. After one has obtained the victory over the other, this contention is withdrawn from
the externals, and betakes itself into the internals of the mind, and there abides with its
restlessness stored up and concealed. Hence cold ensues both to the subdued party or servant,
and to the victor or dominant party. The old times do contain many memories of antics and games
-- how we enjoyed the pleasures of those. In the phrase, Auld Lang Syne, are the melodies of the
woods in the warmest season. I also find there the shape of your face as it was when we were falling
in love. Nostalgia can be delicious and brings on a thoughtful mood. It is there in the middle
of the still night. It fills what might otherwise be empty thoughts with friendly ghosts.

Old times, where are the people who were alive in you, those frolicking souls? Some of them have done
well in life since, and others are no longer alive at all.

Not to mention others who have gone far away, and who likely pause to reflect on the old times
under the night sky, just as I do.

Weren't we more innocent in the the old times? So honest and naive? We can't really see the world
that way again, and the many aspirations we shared when we were young are all but gone. In
the old times, perhaps, lies the magic to bring them back, so long as we never say goodbye to
those memories. Here's to the old times!

That is the sort of thing in our collection; fuller versions of these paraphrases of the prose
from which it derives itself. You have detected the words of "The Hour Too Many" or those of
Vicenza. Coming up next there is Memoirs of a Father from his chair, a graphically accurate
portrayal; followed by a story of Africa from Bowditch's tales, from our own Eliza Cathago;
a funny story from an anti-Irish classicist; a couple of tales about life in Greece today; something
like a story from the Arabian Nights from the pen of H. Neele, may he rest in peace; a young
lady's story about watching cricket; a household gem called 'Maid of Beryl' from Lady Hofland;
some words in explanation of eastern philosophical thinking by the famous Mr. E. Shepherd; a
nostalgic tale of a jewelry-maker in the hamlet of Westcheap that's
a little too retro for my tastes; and, finally, of course, the usual
Tales of the Sea segment.

So that is pretty full reference to the contents you'll find here. We wouldn't bring it to you
if we didn't think it was highly entertaining. You'll only find a couple or three of my stories
in this annual collection, but you can depend on my good taste and executive editorial faculty
to have brought you what's sure to be the best collection of 1829.

--

From the desk of A. A. Watts

If this issue of The Literary Souvenir
were number one, we'd surely benefit from having such a respected
editor - his name would sell it. At this point, though, five years
after our first edition in 1824, the publication can stand on its
own without name dropping.

This issue shows off the talents of our
artists even better than earlier issues, including top-notch prose
and poetry, prints, paintings. 10/12 of the plates are famous images,
all put together for us by the best engravers. These accent pages
feature art covering more space on the page than ever before. As the
page at the front shows, with the illustration of Robinson's Sisters,
this art is graceful and will please you. You can also look forward
to several historical paintings by Leslie, an E. Goodall of Cleopatra,
a John Pye, and a delightful little J.M.W. Turner sketch. But in all such cases, the compliance of one party on account
of the pre-eminence of station and condition of the other, effects only a servile and frigid
conjunction; for the conjugial principle is not of the spirit and heart, but only nominal and
of the countenance; in consequence of which the inferior party is given to boasting, and the
superior blushes with shame. Stephan, now you have a career it would be horrible if you miss
it, later you should not think and worry.Once you become a priest you are always priest. The
catechism does teach that the sacrament of Holy Orders shall be received once and it imprints on
the soul as a spiritual mark which can never be removed. Hence you must think before you decide,
not later. It is a serious question, Stephen, might be your the salvation of your soul depends
on your decision.
 The sound of horses and carriages
resonates throughout the day. Then when autumn arrives and cool leaves fall, the visitors leave,
and houses go unattended. Repairs are made where needed, and houses
are decorated.

The wide streets are extremely smooth and flat, and occasionally crossed by intersecting roads.
Each side of the streets are men and women going about their business, leaving the center of the
street open for the occasional horse drawn carriage. The gentle sound of conversations flow
from the shops in the evenings.

In wintertime, the snow gathers along the pathways, lamp posts offer a welcoming glow along
the streets, shining the way like stars in the night.
*****
Mozart was ever so proud of the size of his hands and feet-but not of his accomplishment of
authoring the Requiem or the Don Juan.
*****
Burmese Dignity
Mr. Crawfurd, recalling his account of the Embassy to Ava, offers this tale of a Burmese minister.
While sitting under an awning on the poop deck of a steam vessel, a heavy rain started to fall.
"I suggested to his excellency that we go below deck, which he refused. He did not want to place
himself under the feet of those that tread on the floor above him, this is a common concern
for both Burmese and Siamese dignitaries. This is more directed at ladies, clearly proof of the
state in which women are held. He turned to me and demanded to know if any woman had ever walked on
the poop deck, and I assured him they had not. After some convincing, and seeing the storm grow
worse, I eventually coaxed him into a cabin."

****
STEAM
Agathias established his knowledge of steam use in mechanical purposes
in quotes made as early as the time of Emperor Justinian, when Anthemius,
a philosopher, was using his power with Constantinople to try to shake
the house of a litugious neighbor. It was also noted that Pope Sylvester
II built an organ using the power of steam. Compared to recent ingenuity,
these successes might remind you of a Frenchmen's boast of his country's
flair with fancy clothing; and of the Englishmen's bragging of their
invention of the shirt. 
**** 
Medical Music 
Sir Charles Blicke
was a master of surgery, his protege, Sharp, was also a talented amateur
of music, although his purpose of using music was intended for drawing
patients in, not healing them. It was said that he "fiddled his way
into practice, and fiddled his competing Dr., Mr. Pott, out of it".
Mr. Pott was not in favor of such tactics, and had no intention of
joining Sharp, and so he made quick effort to move west. "Once time when it was cold, too cold,
and the winds blew, Mama said that she go, that she find her father, that she knows where he
is' and when the lady did not know it, she got her bonnet and she got her shawl, and she kissed
me many times; and she said that when she comes back, she will bring her father with her, and
she will take me away; and then when nobody looked, she went out. She went a long time ago, and
when it became night, she did not come back.

"The lady came and she told me, Where is Mama? And I told the lady that she went to find her father.
 For his paintings Rembrandt probably used
various etching needles of different widths.We do not see the typical changes caused by re-etching.
A minor penetration of acid was caused by re-etching of new lines crossing previously etched lines
under the ground into the old lines. It is visible in the printing as a dark spot at the point
of crossing.This effect is not found in this print.When drypoint lines cross etched lines a similar
result is obvious in the cross-hatching at the lower left. There is no confirmed evidence concerning
the acid corrosive used by Rembrandt to bite his plate.

Only vague conclusions can be drawn from this and other prints. "But whereas
are the waiters?" he asked.
"Not licenced among the audience any more," I told him; "in fact, a number of music-halls don't
even possess licences."
He gazed at me within astonishment and sank into apathy.

Coming up again he remarked, "Do you remember those two fellows with vast stomachs and hooked sticks?
They were funny, whether you like. Don't you possess that type of thing any more?"
"No," I said.
"Do you remember that act," he said--"I suspect it was branded the Risley act--where a man lay onto
his back, with his legs up within the air, and thrown his relations approximately with his
feet? That was jolly clever. Don't you possess that any more?"
"No," I said.
"And the Sisters something or other," he remarked, "dashed pretty girls, whom did everything at the
equivalent time--are they gone for ever?"
"For ever," I said.
"And none comic singles either?" he asked.
"You've heard a lot of comic singles this evening," I replied.
"Oh, those," he said. "I don't dub those comic. They're not comic singles, they're comic-opera
songs. Don't you possess the others any more?"
"Not at this kind of hall," I said. "I daresay there may be a singer or so deserted somewhere, with too
big a coat and too low a hat, but not here."
"Then what are everybody the old performers doing?" he asked.

"I suspect they're starving," I said.
* * * * *
"A NOVEL HOSPITAL AT SHEFFIELD."--Yorkshire Post.
Some of them certainly need a bit of doctoring.
* * * * *
THE PROGRESS OF MAN.
(By our Anthropological Expert.)
PROFESSOR KEITH, of the Royal College of Surgeons, coverage onto the skeleton of a prehistoric
twelve-year-old boy newly heard alongside Ipswich, pronounces his stature towards be much the
equivalent as the medium height of a modern boy of the equivalent age, but the dimensions of the
brain is remarkably large. The professor states that he and his teammates are endeavouring towards get
hold of civilians of every period, going as far back as they can. They shall otherwise be able
towards differentiate the models that lived within any period, and audit the corrections that arrived
again them. So far, however, there has been very little change.
Perhaps the most dramatic outcome of Professor KEITH's plead so far has arrive from the Isle
of Man, whereas a magnificent three-legged skeleton has been heard within the Caves of Bradda.
The remains possess been pronounced via Professor Quellin, the known Manx anthropologist, towards
be those of a man not less than 175 years of age, whose facial angle
bears so spotted a similarity towards that of Mr. HALL CAINE as towards
merit the hypothesis that he was one of the royal ancestors of the
eminent novelist.

Close towards the skeleton was a long bronze trumpet, from which Professor Quellin, as soon as
numerous ineffectual efforts, eventually succeeded within eliciting a deep booming note. Mr.
HALL CAINE, whom has robbed the liveliest interest within the disclosure, is at show contemplating
the organ, and shall, it is wished, grant a performance curtly within the House of Keys.
The modern tunnel at the known Culbin Sands, undertaken via the Forres Antiquarian Institute, possess
also resulted within a number of remarkable finds. Prominent among these is a finalise predetermined
of golf clubs belonging towards the Bronze period. In respect towards
length the clubs are very much the equivalent as the medium tools
consumed at the show day, but the wide dimensions of the brains is
remarkable, the niblick weighing nearly halves a hundredweight. It
is plausibly inferred that clubs of this pattern may also possess
been consumed as weapons, as the occupants within this district within
the Bronze period are known towards possess been of a warlike and
tumultuous disposition. The toy is suspected towards possess been
introduced via a number of Maccabæan settlers, the ancestors of the
clan of Macbeth, whom flourished within the vicinity. 
In that fine
mettle of business which has always characterised The Daily Lyre,
the proprietors of that periodical possess offered a prize of £5,000
for the most aspect relic of ancient and modern British civilization,
towards be posted within via October 1. The soils of Wisconsin and Ohio
noticably improved through the process of glaciation. Perhaps the most improvement of soil was in
the prarie States. The soil in these states is very fine-grained and has few stones or rocks.
It consists only of smaller particles from multiple differing sources and is abundant in many
necessary foods and nutrients for plant's growth. Most fine-grained soil comes from prolonged weathering
periods and unfortunately this process causes many of the valuable chemical nutrients to be
lost, and this is true for most fine-grained soil found in the world. Although, the fine-grained
soil found in the praries is made up of mostly of contents that were churned to dust by the ice
of glaciers, and thus haven't been weathered like the soil of other processes. And because of
the lack of weathering on the soils, the plant nutrients contained in them are very abundant.
This combination of the perfect soil and climate allows for great crop growth and is likewise
excellent for consumers. The argument that the Northern Prarie States of the U.S. are better
than other parts of the earth can be justified because really no where else on our Earth that
the combination of nutrient-rich soil, perfect weather, easy transport, and possibilities
for market and processing so great, except perhaps in western Europe
which would be compromisable.

One of the reasons this area of the United States is such a good crop growing region is because
of the Laurentian highland, which forms the peninsula of northern Michigan State, and brings iron nutrients
through water to the prarie regions crop center.In this region Coal is also very abundant and
exists in large amounts right under the lands of this area. The rocks of what used to be the
coastal plain came from the exact same Pensylvania area that we get most of our coal from now.
Because of the vast coal reserves in this area people in this area are very lucky and they
have more opportunities to use their lands than most other people of differing geographic locations.
Really the only disadvantages would be the distance from these lands to the Oceans and also the
extremite weather types. Most peoples of this region of the world live rather isoloated from globalization
and foregin affairs and therefore live so to speak behind the times.

The other half of the North American continent(the western are), is made up majorly of two parts,
instead of the one that makes up the prarie region and the Atlantic coast region. From the states
of South Dakota and Nebraska upward and even extending into the nation of Canada and west to the
Rockies, there existst an ancien peneplain that has been ground down by the erosion of millions
of years. However, this region is not so level further eastward, and also not so low, it's
westward area reaches elevations of thousands of feet.
 

The way her eyes gleamed, and her cheeks appeared to take on an even more flushed look, yet her
tender hands did not once leave the small jewel that she had found.
"Harry, darling lad, is your condition frequently in this manner? It is pretty exceptionally
hard," she questioned me in a soft, throaty murmur.
 When the superintendent created the job of main line register "inspector,"
it was offered to me. Unfortunately, after the Labor Day rush, they found my position expendable,
and I was out of work again. Insecurely, I never even tried to obtain a clerk's position with
the railway.
After a few weeks of unemployment, I became a District Office Representative for a correspondence
school outside of New York City. I was taken in by the shiny veneer and actually thought I had found
my place at last, but soon became disillusioned by the caliber of my co-workers and the reputation
of the school. I also found I wasn't very good at debt collecting- I was a sucker for a sob
story! I was ready to quit after two months, but my boss begged me to stay, so I complied.
After four months, I left before I was forced to leave.

       My abysmal track record included only a few contracts, including
one for $80 cash.

Needless to say, I was disgusted with myself for my lack of success.
GIVING ORANGE CULTURE A TRY!
I returned with my tail between my legs to my brother in New York to try and gain employment, but
being so disgusted with myself, I found nothing. From there I went to see my brother, the pastor,
in Cincinnati. Instead of shaking some sense into me, he allowed me to continue to float for some
time. Finally, in March, 1908, he assisted me in my journey West. I ended up in Los Angeles,
and through my brother's friend, obtained a job on an orange ranch in the San Gabriel Valley,
for the entire season. At last I was working at something that I enjoyed!
In the winter of 1908, I returned to San Diego and did odd jobs and chores for food and shelter
and a small wage.
However, I had become obsessed with the idea of my own orange grove, and would not allow the
reality of the prohibitive expense to develop one dissuade me! I actually obtained a small
tract of unimproved land, but found I didn't have the resources available to clear it of the huge
trees. When the chance came for me to file on a homestead in the Imperial Valley in May, 1910, I
grabbed at it. Later, I was able to sell my aborted orange grove for a profit, and in September,
began to settle on my homestead. I hired a man to help me build my cabin and make a wagon trail,
and finally moved in on November 1st. Unfortunately, several months later, I realized it was impossible
to provide irrigation to enough land to make a viable living. I also
hadn't counted on the difficulties of desert living to be so numerous
and for the whole experience to be so lonely. Anyone who patronizes their business at the corner of Franklin and Hawley streets will be
warmly welcomed and find many amusements. Additionally, they will have the opportunity to view one of
the largest and most beautiful bookstores in the country. A comparative philologist would appreciate knowing about the differences
in meaning, pronunciation, and such because as life changes its circumstances,
so does language change. It is surprising
to notice that many literary men have had such a taste in respecto to their wifes. Many of
them have been dissolute, ill-humoured, slatternly, and have run into all the frivolities of the
age. However, the wife of Budaeus was different.
It is delightful when the mind of the female is happily disposed, it is richly cultivated as much
as to be involved in the liverary avocation of her husband! The intercourse of the sexes is a great
pleasure. Budaeus for example, must have been very happy, even in
those works which must have been for others a most dreadful labour! The abandon of the entrances
of the three portals are awash with colossal statues, thirty- nine in number, apery patriarchs,
prophets, kings, bishops, virgins and martyrs. On the trumeau of the axial aboideau is a accomplished
bronze of the Virgin Mary; on the abandon of this trumeau are bas-reliefs apery the Fall of Man, of whose
apology Mary should be the instrument.

It is absolutely appropriate of a medieval abbey that we should find, on the lintels and side-posts
of these doorways, emblems of agronomical plan in the assorted seasons of the year, as able-bodied
as altered symbols of arts and handicrafts. Amid the carvings of these doorways are the heroes
and saints of the Old Testament, types and antecedents of the Messiah, as able-bodied as celebrated
scenes, apery the Redemption of the World, the Conversion of the Gentiles, the Resurrection
of the Dead, the Last Judgment, the Condemnation of the Wicked, the Reception of the Just into
the habitations of the blest. Finally, the Assumption and Coronation of the Blessed Virgin sums
up, with an artistic legend, this alternation of Christian article perpetuated in stone.
But the medieval ability is many-sided, and never annoyed with that which is admirable alone;
and this arresting arrangement of Christian abstraction would not be complete to the apperception
of the medieval artisan unless he had crowned the angles of his barrio with a alternation of
aberrant gargoyles and allegoric statues, apery the streams that watered the alluvial paradise,
while at the acme of the roof are niched angles address instruments of music.
 I brought up a saw
and wooden horse from the cellar and started to work on the winter's
wood in the summer kitchen as the doctor had advised. That is when
the Irishman from the grocery entered, carrying a bundle under his
arm. Garfield
recited to me what had happened with an overly excited face that was as close to mine as he
could possibly make it. As he described the collapse of nerve and will that had overcome his chief,
his heavy had fallen abruptly on my knee.
 Prof.Rowland explains to the respected tables,the
substances 'Not in the solar spectrum'. The substances have few strong lines or none when he
uses the arc spectrum. Boron has only two strong lines at 2497.The lines of bismuth are all
compound, and so too diffuse to appear.There must be some good reason for their absence from
the solar spectrum. Tullia - Excuse me! Do you mean to
tell me that we are not the ruling elite of this planet, as we have believed ourselves to be, but
are only 50% owners? I'm embarrassed to think how this makes us look.
The Savant - (annoyed that Tullia has criticized his poetry, answers her sarcastically:) Indeed,
your fellow patriots who have been bragging that they are self-made rulers of the earth, barely
control one fifth of it.

Right now, those of us who live in Eastern Europe, run an empire that is vaster than Roman
territory. On top of that, it is run by a woman, who is far smarter and more beautiful than
you, and who wears dresses; if she had read my poetry, I know she
would have given them a good review. 
(The Marchioness tells the
author to shut up, since the woman he is disrespecting is the daughter
of Cicero, and a Roman lady.) Her family was apparently very determined to hold on to life somewhat resembling
the tenacious Fazio, as can be seen from the fact that her father Jacopo died when he was seventy-five
years of age.About his maternal grandfather Jerome comes out saying that he was a mathematician of
a high standard,and that he was jailed for some wrongdoing not in tune with law, at the age
of seventy-five years. When he refers to his mother, he mentions about her easily ignitable
temper, physical attributes like her small build and her fat body construct, her powerful
memory and mental acumen, and her strong religious leanings. He also says that if they had
one common quality among them it was their nature to get easily provoked in to anger and their
accustomed behavior of exhibiting lukewarm and irregularly shown love for their offspring.
Despite that they also were in a way indulgent to him. Till the second hour of the day struck,
his father would not mind his remaining in the bed or to be more precise he would not let him get
up before this--a practice he persevered with and which helped him preserve his health. He further
adds that in the later stages of his life he always carried this opinion with him that it
was his father who was the more kindly one than her mother.
It can be inferred from these passages and from the ones subsequently following this that Jerome
was not fond of his mother, and nowhere it is noticed that he has expressed disapproval or rebukes
his mother ; but still clearly one can observe that he has no great endearing or grateful terms
for her as against the flowing language that he churns out when he grieves the passing away of
his oppressive and cruelly disposed father. In the Geniturarum Exempla [7] he says that as
he is on to writing about a woman and so it shall be in order if he just merely mentions about
how ingenious she was in addition to being honorable, respectful, magnanimous and charitable
as well as being a caring and loving mother. The possible reason for his adopting a kindly line
of expression towards his mother maybe due to the reason that his father pre-deceased her and
she lived for many more years as his family member along with his wife. She was the widow of
a certain Antonio Alberio ,[8] and during her marriage with him bore
him three children, Tommaso, Catilina, and Joanni Ambrogio; but she
lost all three of those children when Jerome was around one year old
on account of plague, all within a span of a few weeks.[9] Jerome
for his part survived the same attack rather by the narrowest of margins.

He attributes the reason for having to encounter the attack to his mother’s earlier day experience
of the disease during her girlhood times. It is also learnt that a son was born to Fazio and
Chiara who expired at birth only.
Jerome’s birth was on September 24, 1501, half-past six ‘o clock and a quarter to seven in the
evening. The date as mentioned herein is shown altered by Jerome in his autobiography in the second
chapter as year 1500. Similarly in De Utilitate, p. 347, the date of his birth is mentioned
to be September 23; but otherwise you observe that at all other places the date referred to
continues to be the same as the one mentioned initially. Before he could get into the world
destructive influences were at work to put him down. His mother influenced by the necessity
she felt to conceal her shame and goaded on by some negative thinking people drank a potion
of drugs to abort the birth by a miscarriage or otherwise. [11] Nature however could not be held
back. While getting to describe the circumstances of his birth he goes some length and brings
in astrological jargon to indicate how the celestial bodies were huddled together to strike him
both in body and mind."Wherefore I ought, according to every rule, to have been born a monster,
and, under the circumstances, it was no marvel that it was found necessary to tear me from the
womb in order to bring me into the world. Thus was I born, or rather dragged from my mother's
body. I was to all outward seeming dead, with my head covered with black curly hair.
 As Cassius walked toward the woman, he turned
to Paullus and said "She is the most beautiful woman I have ever laid eyes on."

"My dear friend, how can you tell? You are only able to see her foot and ankle." Paullus replied.

"They
are the finest foot and ankle mine eyes have ever been bestowed upon. Her face must be beautiful,
although she is wrapped in a long white veil. Her voice, too, is as sweet as honey, though there
is a mysterious tone. It is her voice that that has me hypnotized."

"Well! well! marry the woman, I would be glad to be spared the trouble. She must be in the same
nunnery as Flora, and I am not in the mood for such a casual relationship for the time being."

"No,
Paullus, it is a Patrician lady, I will lie my freedom on it, though
she is dressed plainly and closely veiled."

"Julia Serena? By the
Gods, not Julia!" Paullus exclaimed with tones of inquiry and wonder. The sneaky and cowardly, or assertive and selfish
child can probably read and add as well as one that has the makings
of a hero in him. This makes us wonder at the natural tendencies of
the "lower classes." First, patricians yelled 'Christinans to the lions!' Then, superstition
screamed 'Heretics to the stake!' The public was more upset than they were with regard to
the spectable of Golgotha. Spanish monarchs, nobles and important people in the kingdom were
all affected. Many felt that they were honored. A government that was based on religion prospored
at the expense of an intellectual movement.

As a result, the progress of civalization was hindered. T.C.D., in which the man declares he was not in any way involved in the original publication
or any changes for the 2nd edition of "The Works of Jonathan Swift." This assertion is at odds
with the statement made in Messr. Lockhart's "Life of Sir Walter Scott," 2nd edition, volume
vii, page 215. Who, then was the editor, and in exactly what aspects
is the second edition different from the first? W.H.F. "Forenoon's
Delight"--Why is it that, at some times of the year, a minor shower
before noon is referred to as "forenoon's delight?" I was told that they had been popes
who had compelled emperors to resign their dominions, and had ill-treated them both in word
and deed at Rome, whither they went to supplicate and adore them; and that the basket in which
were the serpents, and the blazing ass with snakes at his sides, were representations of their
love of dominion grounded on self-love, and that such appearances are seen only by those who
look at them from a distance. June 19th.--Awoke and dictated stories for the Novoe Vremya, Matin
and Corriere della Sera, descrbing the need of working to gether in a cosmopolitan co-ordination.
Took a plane to Chicago to present a supplementary lecture to ARTHUR
BALFOUR's on ARISTOTLE.