Oh, if we could thus trace out the unreasonableness of vice, how often should we find that,
when it has attained its object, it discovers it is not what it seemed! Why is there this cruel
haste to corrupt innocence, to make, a victim of a young creature whom we ought to protect,
one who is dragged by this first false step into a gulf of misery from which only death can
release her? Brutality, vanity, folly, error, and nothing more. This pleasure itself is unnatural;
it rests on popular opinion, and popular opinion at its worst, since it depends on scorn of
self. He who knows he is the basest of men fears comparison with others, and would be the first
that he may be less hateful. See if those who are most greedy in pursuit of such fancied pleasures
are ever attractive young men--men worthy of pleasing, men who might have some excuse if they
were hard to please. Not so; any one with good looks, merit, and feeling has little fear of
his mistress' experience; with well-placed confidence he says to her, "You know what pleasure
is, what is that to me? my heart assures me that this is not so."

But an aged satyr, worn out with debauchery, with no charm, no consideration, no thought for
any but himself, with no shred of honour, incapable and unworthy of finding favour in the eyes
of any woman who knows anything of men deserving of love, expects to make up for all this with
an innocent girl by trading on her inexperience and stirring her emotions for the first time.
His last hope is to find favour as a novelty; no doubt this is the secret motive of this desire;
but he is mistaken, the horror he excites is just as natural as the desires he wishes to arouse.
He is also mistaken in his foolish attempt; that very nature takes care to assert her rights;
every girl who sells herself is no longer a maid; she has given herself to the man of her choice,
and she is making the very comparison he dreads. The pleasure purchased is imaginary, but none
the less hateful.

For my own part, however riches may change me, there is one matter in which I shall never change.
If I have neither morals nor virtue, I shall not be wholly without taste, without sense, without
delicacy; and this will prevent me from spending my fortune in the pursuit of empty dreams,
from wasting my money and my strength in teaching children to betray me and mock at me. If
I were young, I would seek the pleasures of youth; and as I would have them at their best I
would not seek them in the guise of a rich man. If I were at my present age, it would be another
matter; I would wisely confine myself to the pleasures of my age; I would form tastes which
I could enjoy, and I would stifle those which could only cause suffering. I would not go and
offer my grey beard to the scornful jests of young girls; I could never bear to sicken them
with my disgusting caresses, to furnish them at my expense with the most absurd stories, to
imagine them describing the vile pleasures of the old ape, so as to avenge themselves for what
they had endured. But if habits unresisted had changed my former desires into needs, I would
perhaps satisfy those needs, but with shame and blushes. I would distinguish between passion
and necessity, I would find a suitable mistress and would keep to her. I would not make a business
of my weakness, and above all I would only have one person aware of it. Life has other pleasures
when these fail us; by hastening in vain after those that fly us, we deprive ourselves of those
that remain. Let our tastes change with our years, let us no more meddle with age than with
the seasons. We should be ourselves at all times, instead of struggling against nature; such
vain attempts exhaust our strength and prevent the right use of life.

The lower classes are seldom dull, their life is full of activity; if there is little variety
in their amusements they do not recur frequently; many days of labour teach them to enjoy their
rare holidays. Short intervals of leisure between long periods of labour give a spice to the
pleasures of their station. The chief curse of the rich is dullness; in the midst of costly
amusements, among so many men striving to give them pleasure, they are devoured and slain by
dullness; their life is spent in fleeing from it and in being overtaken by it; they are overwhelmed
by the intolerable burden; women more especially, who do not know how to work or play, are
a prey to tedium under the name of the vapours; with them it takes the shape of a dreadful
disease, which robs them of their reason and even of their life. For my own part I know no
more terrible fate than that of a pretty woman in Paris, unless it is that of the pretty manikin
who devotes himself to her, who becomes idle and effeminate like her, and so deprives himself
twice over of his manhood, while he prides himself on his successes and for their sake endures
the longest and dullest days which human being ever put up with.

Proprieties, fashions, customs which depend on luxury and breeding, confine the course of life
within the limits of the most miserable uniformity. The pleasure we desire to display to others
is a pleasure lost; we neither enjoy it ourselves, nor do others enjoy it. [Footnote: Two ladies
of fashion, who wished to seem to be enjoying themselves greatly, decided never to go to bed
before five o'clock in the morning. In the depths of winter their servants spent the night
in the street waiting for them, and with great difficulty kept themselves from freezing. One
night, or rather one morning, some one entered the room where these merry people spent their
hours without knowing how time passed. He found them quite alone; each of them was asleep in
her arm-chair.] Ridicule, which public opinion dreads more than anything, is ever at hand to
tyrannise, and punish.  It is only ceremony that makes us ridiculous; if we can vary our place
and our pleasures, to-day's impressions can efface those of yesterday; in the mind of men they
are as if they had never been; but we enjoy ourselves for we throw ourselves into every hour
and everything. My only set rule would be this: wherever I was I would pay no heed to anything
else. I would take each day as it came, as if there were neither yesterday nor to-morrow. As
I should be a man of the people, with the populace, I should be a countryman in the fields;
and if I spoke of farming, the peasant should not laugh at my expense. I would not go and build
a town in the country nor erect the Tuileries at the door of my lodgings. On some pleasant
shady hill-side I would have a little cottage, a white house with green shutters, and though
a thatched roof is the best all the year round, I would be grand enough to have, not those
gloomy slates, but tiles, because they look brighter and more cheerful than thatch, and the
houses in my own country are always roofed with them, and so they would recall to me something
of the happy days of my youth. For my courtyard I would have a poultry-yard, and for my stables
a cowshed for the sake of the milk which I love. My garden should be a kitchen-garden, and
my park an orchard, like the one described further on. The fruit would be free to those who
walked in the orchard, my gardener should neither count it nor gather it; I would not, with
greedy show, display before your eyes superb espaliers which one scarcely dare touch. But this
small extravagance would not be costly, for I would choose my abode in some remote province
where silver is scarce and food plentiful, where plenty and poverty have their seat.

There I would gather round me a company, select rather than numerous, a band of friends who
know what pleasure is, and how to enjoy it, women who can leave their arm-chairs and betake
themselves to outdoor sports, women who can exchange the shuttle or the cards for the fishing
line or the bird-trap, the gleaner's rake or grape-gatherer's basket. There all the pretensions
of the town will be forgotten, and we shall be villagers in a village; we shall find all sorts
of different sports and we shall hardly know how to choose the morrow's occupation. Exercise
and an active life will improve our digestion and modify our tastes. Every meal will be a feast,
where plenty will be more pleasing than any delicacies. There are no such cooks in the world
as mirth, rural pursuits, and merry games; and the finest made dishes are quite ridiculous
in the eyes of people who have been on foot since early dawn. Our meals will be served without
regard to order or elegance; we shall make our dining-room anywhere, in the garden, on a boat,
beneath a tree; sometimes at a distance from the house on the banks of a running stream, on
the fresh green grass, among the clumps of willow and hazel; a long procession of guests will
carry the material for the feast with laughter and singing; the turf will be our chairs and
table, the banks of the stream our side-board, and our dessert is hanging on the trees; the
dishes will be served in any order, appetite needs no ceremony; each one of us, openly putting
himself first, would gladly see every one else do the same; from this warm-hearted and temperate
familiarity there would arise, without coarseness, pretence, or constraint, a laughing conflict
a hundredfold more delightful than politeness, and more likely to cement our friendship. No
tedious flunkeys to listen to our words, to whisper criticisms on our behaviour, to count every
mouthful with greedy eyes, to amuse themselves by keeping us waiting for our wine, to complain
of the length of our dinner. We will be our own servants, in order to be our own masters. Time
will fly unheeded, our meal will be an interval of rest during the heat of the day. If some
peasant comes our way, returning from his work with his tools over his shoulder, I will cheer
his heart with kindly words, and a glass or two of good wine, which will help him to bear his
poverty more cheerfully; and I too shall have the joy of feeling my heart stirred within me,
and I should say to myself--I too am a man.

If the inhabitants of the district assembled for some rustic feast, I and my friends would
be there among the first; if there were marriages, more blessed than those of towns, celebrated
near my home, every one would know how I love to see people happy, and I should be invited.
I would take these good folks some gift as simple as themselves, a gift which would be my share
of the feast; and in exchange I should obtain gifts beyond price, gifts so little known among
my equals, the gifts of freedom and true pleasure. I should sup gaily at the head of their
long table; I should join in the chorus of some rustic song and I should dance in the barn
more merrily than at a ball in the Opera House.

"This is all very well so far," you will say, "but what about the shooting! One must have some
sport in the country." Just so; I only wanted a farm, but I was wrong. I assume I am rich,
I must keep my pleasures to myself, I must be free to kill something; this is quite another
matter. I must have estates, woods, keepers, rents, seignorial rights, particularly incense
and holy water.

Well and good. But I shall have neighbours about my estate who are jealous of their rights
and anxious to encroach on those of others; our keepers will quarrel, and possibly their masters
will quarrel too; this means altercations, disputes, ill-will, or law-suits at the least; this
in itself is not very pleasant. My tenants will not enjoy finding my hares at work upon their
corn, or my wild boars among their beans. As they dare not kill the enemy, every one of them
will try to drive him from their fields; when the day has been spent in cultivating the ground,
they will be compelled to sit up at night to watch it; they will have watch-dogs, drums, horns,
and bells; my sleep will be disturbed by their racket. Do what I will, I cannot help thinking
of the misery of these poor people, and I cannot help blaming myself for it. If I had the honour
of being a prince, this would make little impression on me; but as I am a self-made man who
has only just come into his property, I am still rather vulgar at heart.

That is not all; abundance of game attracts trespassers; I shall soon have poachers to punish;
I shall require prisons, gaolers, guards, and galleys; all this strikes me as cruel. The wives
of those miserable creatures will besiege my door and disturb me with their crying; they must
either be driven away or roughly handled. The poor people who are not poachers, whose harvest
has been destroyed by my game, will come next with their complaints. Some people will be put
to death for killing the game, the rest will be punished for having spared it; what a choice
of evils! On every side I shall find nothing but misery and hear nothing but groans. So far
as I can see this must greatly disturb the pleasure of slaying at one's ease heaps of partridges
and hares which are tame enough to run about one's feet.

If you would have pleasure without pain let there be no monopoly; the more you leave it free
to everybody, the purer will be your own enjoyment. Therefore I should not do what I have just
described, but without change of tastes I would follow those which seem likely to cause me
least pain. I would fix my rustic abode in a district where game is not preserved, and where
I can have my sport without hindrance. Game will be less plentiful, but there will be more
skill in finding it, and more pleasure in securing it. I remember the start of delight with
which my father watched the rise of his first partridge and the rapture with which he found
the hare he had sought all day long. Yes, I declare, that alone with his dog, carrying his
own gun, cartridges, and game bag together with his hare, he came home at nightfall, worn out
with fatigue and torn to pieces by brambles, but better pleased with his day's sport than all
your ordinary sportsmen, who on a good horse, with twenty guns ready for them, merely take
one gun after another, and shoot and kill everything that comes their way, without skill, without
glory, and almost without exercise. The pleasure is none the less, and the difficulties are
removed; there is no estate to be preserved, no poacher to be punished, and no wretches to
be tormented; here are solid grounds for preference. Whatever you do, you cannot torment men
for ever without experiencing some amount of discomfort; and sooner or later the muttered curses
of the people will spoil the flavour of your game.

Again, monopoly destroys pleasure. Real pleasures are those which we share with the crowd;
we lose what we try to keep to ourselves alone. If the walls I build round my park transform
it into a gloomy prison, I have only deprived myself, at great expense, of the pleasure of
a walk; I must now seek that pleasure at a distance. The demon of property spoils everything
he lays hands upon. A rich man wants to be master everywhere, and he is never happy where he
is; he is continually driven to flee from himself. I shall therefore continue to do in my prosperity
what I did in my poverty. Henceforward, richer in the wealth of others than I ever shall be
in my own wealth, I will take possession of everything in my neighbourhood that takes my fancy;
no conqueror is so determined as I; I even usurp the rights of princes; I take possession of
every open place that pleases me, I give them names; this is my park, chat is my terrace, and
I am their owner; henceforward I wander among them at will; I often return to maintain my proprietary
rights; I make what use I choose of the ground to walk upon, and you will never convince me
that the nominal owner of the property which I have appropriated gets better value out of the
money it yields him than I do out of his land. No matter if I am interrupted by hedges and
ditches, I take my park on my back, and I carry it elsewhere; there will be space enough for
it near at hand, and I may plunder my neighbours long enough before I outstay my welcome.

This is an attempt to show what is meant by good taste in the choice of pleasant occupations
for our leisure hours; this is the spirit of enjoyment; all else is illusion, fancy, and foolish
pride. He who disobeys these rules, however rich he may be, will devour his gold on a dung-hill,
and will never know what it is to live.

You will say, no doubt, that such amusements lie within the reach of all, that we need not
be rich to enjoy them. That is the very point I was coming to. Pleasure is ours when we want
it; it is only social prejudice which makes everything hard to obtain, and drives pleasure
before us. To be happy is a hundredfold easier than it seems. If he really desires to enjoy
himself the man of taste has no need of riches; all he wants is to be free and to be his own
master. With health and daily bread we are rich enough, if we will but get rid of our prejudices;
this is the "Golden Mean" of Horace. You folks with your strong-boxes may find some other use
for your wealth, for it cannot buy you pleasure. Emile knows this as well as I, but his heart
is purer and more healthy, so he will feel it more strongly, and all that he has beheld in
society will only serve to confirm him in this opinion.

While our time is thus employed, we are ever on the look-out for Sophy, and we have not yet
found her. It was not desirable that she should be found too easily, and I have taken care
to look for her where I knew we should not find her.

The time is come; we must now seek her in earnest, lest Emile should mistake some one else
for Sophy, and only discover his error when it is too late. Then farewell Paris, far-famed
Paris, with all your noise and smoke and dirt, where the women have ceased to believe in honour
and the men in virtue. We are in search of love, happiness, innocence; the further we go from
Paris the better.

BOOK V

We have reached the last act of youth's drams; we are approaching its closing scene.

It is not good that man should be alone. Emile is now a man, and we must give him his promised
helpmeet. That helpmeet is Sophy. Where is her dwelling-place, where shall she be found? We
must know beforehand what she is, and then we can decide where to look for her. And when she
is found, our task is not ended. "Since our young gentleman," says Locke, "is about to marry,
it is time to leave him with his mistress." And with these words he ends his book. As I have
not the honour of educating "A young gentleman," I shall take care not to follow his example.

SOPHY, OR WOMAN

Sophy should be as truly a woman as Emile is a man, i.e., she must possess all those characters
of her sex which are required to enable her to play her part in the physical and moral order.
Let us inquire to begin with in what respects her sex differs from our own.

But for her sex, a woman is a man; she has the same organs, the same needs, the same faculties.
The machine is the same in its construction; its parts, its working, and its appearance are
similar. Regard it as you will the difference is only in degree.

Yet where sex is concerned man and woman are unlike; each is the complement of the other; the
difficulty in comparing them lies in our inability to decide, in either case, what is a matter
of sex, and what is not. General differences present themselves to the comparative anatomist
and even to the superficial observer; they seem not to be a matter of sex; yet they are really
sex differences, though the connection eludes our observation. How far such differences may
extend we cannot tell; all we know for certain is that where man and woman are alike we have
to do with the characteristics of the species; where they are unlike, we have to do with the
characteristics of sex. Considered from these two standpoints, we find so many instances of
likeness and unlikeness that it is perhaps one of the greatest of marvels how nature has contrived
to make two beings so like and yet so different.

These resemblances and differences must have an influence on the moral nature; this inference
is obvious, and it is confirmed by experience; it shows the vanity of the disputes as to the
superiority or the equality of the sexes; as if each sex, pursuing the path marked out for
it by nature, were not more perfect in that very divergence than if it more closely resembled
the other. A perfect man and a perfect woman should no more be alike in mind than in face,
and perfection admits of neither less nor more.

In the union of the sexes each alike contributes to the common end, but in different ways.
From this diversity springs the first difference which may be observed between man and woman
in their moral relations. The man should be strong and active; the woman should be weak and
passive; the one must have both the power and the will; it is enough that the other should
offer little resistance.

When this principle is admitted, it follows that woman is specially made for man's delight.
If man in his turn ought to be pleasing in her eyes, the necessity is less urgent, his virtue
is in his strength, he pleases because he is strong. I grant you this is not the law of love,
but it is the law of nature, which is older than love itself.

If woman is made to please and to be in subjection to man, she ought to make herself pleasing
in his eyes and not provoke him to anger; her strength is in her charms, by their means she
should compel him to discover and use his strength. The surest way of arousing this strength
is to make it necessary by resistance. Thus pride comes to the help of desire and each exults
in the other's victory. This is the origin of attack and defence, of the boldness of one sex
and the timidity of the other, and even of the shame and modesty with which nature has armed
the weak for the conquest of the strong.

Who can possibly suppose that nature has prescribed the same advances to the one sex as to
the other, or that the first to feel desire should be the first to show it? What strange depravity
of judgment! The consequences of the act being so different for the two sexes, is it natural
that they should enter upon it with equal boldness? How can any one fail to see that when the
share of each is so unequal, if the one were not controlled by modesty as the other is controlled
by nature, the result would be the destruction of both, and the human race would perish through
the very means ordained for its continuance?

Women so easily stir a man's senses and fan the ashes of a dying passion, that if philosophy
ever succeeded in introducing this custom into any unlucky country, especially if it were a
warm country where more women are born than men, the men, tyrannised over by the women, would
at last become their victims, and would be dragged to their death without the least chance
of escape.

Female animals are without this sense of shame, but what of that? Are their desires as boundless
as those of women, which are curbed by this shame? The desires of the animals are the result
of necessity, and when the need is satisfied, the desire ceases; they no longer make a feint
of repulsing the male, they do it in earnest.  Their seasons of complaisance are short and
soon over. Impulse and restraint are alike the work of nature. But what would take the place
of this negative instinct in women if you rob them of their modesty?

The Most High has deigned to do honour to mankind; he has endowed man with boundless passions,
together with a law to guide them, so that man may be alike free and self-controlled; though
swayed by these passions man is endowed with reason by which to control them. Woman is also
endowed with boundless passions; God has given her modesty to restrain them. Moreover, he has
given to both a present reward for the right use of their powers, in the delight which springs
from that right use of them, i.e., the taste for right conduct established as the law of our
behaviour. To my mind this is far higher than the instinct of the beasts.

Whether the woman shares the man's passion or not, whether she is willing or unwilling to satisfy
it, she always repulses him and defends herself, though not always with the same vigour, and
therefore not always with the same success. If the siege is to be successful, the besieged
must permit or direct the attack. How skilfully can she stimulate the efforts of the aggressor.
The freest and most delightful of activities does not permit of any real violence; reason and
nature are alike against it; nature, in that she has given the weaker party strength enough
to resist if she chooses; reason, in that actual violence is not only most brutal in itself,
but it defeats its own ends, not only because the man thus declares war against his companion
and thus gives her a right to defend her person and her liberty even at the cost of the enemy's
life, but also because the woman alone is the judge of her condition, and a child would have
no father if any man might usurp a father's rights.

Thus the different constitution of the two sexes leads us to a third conclusion, that the stronger
party seems to be master, but is as a matter of fact dependent on the weaker, and that, not
by any foolish custom of gallantry, nor yet by the magnanimity of the protector, but by an
inexorable law of nature. For nature has endowed woman with a power of stimulating man's passions
in excess of man's power of satisfying those passions, and has thus made him dependent on her
goodwill, and compelled him in his turn to endeavour to please her, so that she may be willing
to yield to his superior strength. Is it weakness which yields to force, or is it voluntary
self-surrender? This uncertainty constitutes the chief charm of the man's victory, and the
woman is usually cunning enough to leave him in doubt. In this respect the woman's mind exactly
resembles her body; far from being ashamed of her weakness, she is proud of it; her soft muscles
offer no resistance, she professes that she cannot lift the lightest weight; she would be ashamed
to be strong. And why? Not only to gain an appearance of refinement; she is too clever for
that; she is providing herself beforehand with excuses, with the right to be weak if she chooses.

The experience we have gained through our vices has considerably modified the views held in
older times; we rarely hear of violence for which there is so little occasion that it would
hardly be credited, Yet such stories are common enough among the Jews and ancient Greeks; for
such views belong to the simplicity of nature, and have only been uprooted by our profligacy.
If fewer deeds of violence are quoted in our days, it is not that men are more temperate, but
because they are less credulous, and a complaint which would have been believed among a simple
people would only excite laughter among ourselves; therefore silence is the better course.
There is a law in Deuteronomy, under which the outraged maiden was punished, along with her
assailant, if the crime were committed in a town; but if in the country or in a lonely place,
the latter alone was punished. "For," says the law, "the maiden cried for help, and there was
none to hear." From this merciful interpretation of the law, girls learnt not to let themselves
be surprised in lonely places.

This change in public opinion has had a perceptible effect on our morals. It has produced our
modern gallantry. Men have found that their pleasures depend, more than they expected, on the
goodwill of the fair sex, and have secured this goodwill by attentions which have had their reward.

See how we find ourselves led unconsciously from the physical to the moral constitution, how
from the grosser union of the sexes spring the sweet laws of love. Woman reigns, not by the
will of man, but by the decrees of nature herself; she had the power long before she showed
it. That same Hercules who proposed to violate all the fifty daughters of Thespis was compelled
to spin at the feet of Omphale, and Samson, the strong man, was less strong than Delilah. This
power cannot be taken from woman; it is hers by right; she would have lost it long ago, were
it possible.

The consequences of sex are wholly unlike for man and woman. The male is only a male now and
again, the female is always a female, or at least all her youth; everything reminds her of
her sex; the performance of her functions requires a special constitution. She needs care during
pregnancy and freedom from work when her child is born; she must have a quiet, easy life while
she nurses her children; their education calls for patience and gentleness, for a zeal and
love which nothing can dismay; she forms a bond between father and child, she alone can win
the father's love for his children and convince him that they are indeed his own. What loving
care is required to preserve a united family! And there should be no question of virtue in
all this, it must be a labour of love, without which the human race would be doomed to extinction.

The mutual duties of the two sexes are not, and cannot be, equally binding on both. Women do
wrong to complain of the inequality of man-made laws; this inequality is not of man's making,
or at any rate it is not the result of mere prejudice, but of reason. She to whom nature has
entrusted the care of the children must hold herself responsible for them to their father.
No doubt every breach of faith is wrong, and every faithless husband, who robs his wife of
the sole reward of the stern duties of her sex, is cruel and unjust; but the faithless wife
is worse; she destroys the family and breaks the bonds of nature; when she gives her husband
children who are not his own, she is false both to him and them, her crime is not infidelity
but treason. To my mind, it is the source of dissension and of crime of every kind. Can any
position be more wretched than that of the unhappy father who, when he clasps his child to
his breast, is haunted by the suspicion that this is the child of another, the badge of his
own dishonour, a thief who is robbing his own children of their inheritance. Under such circumstances
the family is little more than a group of secret enemies, armed against each other by a guilty
woman, who compels them to pretend to love one another.

