'Upon my word, Fenwick, I've a mind to do something for you--I have indeed. I believe you'd
justify it--I do! And I've always had a soft heart for artists. You look at the things in this
room'--he waved his hand towards the walls, which were covered with water-colour drawings--'I've
known most of the men who painted them, and I've assisted a very great many of them. Those
pictures--most of them--represent loans, sir!--loans at times of difficulty, which I was proud
to make'--Mr. Morrison struck his hand on the table--'yes, proud--because I believed in the
genius of the men to whom I made them. I said, "I'll take a picture"--and they had the money--and
the money saved their furniture--and their homes--and their wives and children. Well, I'm glad
and proud to have done it, Fenwick!--you mark my words.'

He paused, his eyes on the artist, his attitude grasping, as it were, at the other's approval--hungry
for it. Fenwick said nothing. He stood in the shadow of a curtain, and the sarcasm his lip
could not restrain escaped the notice of his companion. 'And so, you see, I'm only following
out an old custom when I say, I believe in you, Fenwick!--I believe in your abilities--I'm
sorry for your necessities--and I'll come to your assistance. Now, how much would take you
to London and keep you there for six months, till you've made a few friends and done some work?'

'A hundred pounds,' said the painter, breathing hard.

'A hundred pounds. And what about the wife?'

'Her father very likely would give her shelter, and the child. And of course I should leave
her provided.'

'Well, and what about my security? How, John, in plain words, do you propose to repay me?'

Mr. Morrison spoke with extreme mildness. His blue eyes, whereof the whites were visible all
round the pupils, shone benevolently on the artist--his mouth was all sensibility. Whereas,
for a moment, there had been something of the hawk in his attitude and expression, he was now
the dove--painfully obliged to pay a passing attention to business.

Fenwick hesitated.

'You mentioned six guineas, I think, for this portrait?' He nodded towards the canvas, on which
he had been at work.

'I did. It is unfortunate, of course, that Bella dislikes it so. I shan't be able to hang it.
Never mind. A bargain's a bargain.'

The young man drew himself up proudly.

'It is so, Mr. Morrison. And you wished me to paint your portrait, I think, and Mrs. Morrison's.'
The elder man made a sign of assent. 'Well, I could run up to your place--to Bartonbury--and
paint those in the winter, when I come to see my wife. As to the rest--I'll repay you within
the year--unless--well, unless I go utterly to grief, which of course I may.'

'Wait here a moment. I'll fetch you the money. Better not promise to repay me in cash. It'll
be a millstone round your neck. I'll take it in pictures.'

'Very well; then I'll either paint you an original finished picture--historical or romantic
subject--medium size, by the end of the year, or make you copies--you said you wanted two or
three--one large or two small, from anything you like in the National Gallery.'

Morrison laughed good-temperedly. He touched a copy of The Art Journal lying on the table.

'There's an article here about that German painter--Lenbach--whom they crack up so nowadays.
When he was a young man, Baron Schack, it appears, paid him one hundred pounds a year, for
all his time, as a copyist in Italy and Spain.' He spoke very delicately, mincing his words
a little.

Fenwick's colour rose suddenly. Morrison was not looking at him, or he would have seen a pair
of angry eyes.

'Prices have gone up,' said the painter, dryly. 'And I guess living in London's dearer now
than living in Italy was when Lenbach (which he pronounced Lenback) was young!'

'Oh! so you know all about Lenbach?'

'You lent me the article. However'--Fenwick rose--'is that our bargain?'

The note in the voice was trenchant, even aggressive. Nothing of the suppliant, in tone or
attitude. Morrison surveyed him, amused.

'If you like to call it so,' he said, lifting his delicate eyebrows a moment. 'Well, I'll take
the risk.'

He left the room. Fenwick thrust his hands into his pockets, with a muttered exclamation, and
walked to the window. He looked out upon a Westmoreland valley in the first flush of spring;
but he saw nothing. His blood beat in heart and brain with a suffocating rapidity. So his chance
was come! What would Phoebe say?

As he stood by the large window, face and form in strong relief against the crude green without,
the energy of the May landscape was, as it were, repeated and expressed in the man beholding
it. He was tall, a little round-shouldered, with a large, broad-browed head, covered with brown,
straggling hair; eyes, glancing and darkish, full of force, of excitement even, curiously veiled,
often, by suspicion; nose, a little crooked owing to an injury at football; and mouth, not
coarse, but large and freely cut, and falling readily into lines of sarcasm.

The general look was one of great acuteness, rather antagonistic, as a rule, than sympathetic;
and the hands, which were large and yet slender, were those of a craftsman finely endowed with
all the instincts of touch.

Suddenly the young man turned on his heel and looked at the water-colours on the wall.

'The old hypocrite!' he thought; 'they're worth hundreds--and I'll be bound he got them for
nothing. He'll try to get mine for nothing; but he'll find I'm his match!'

For among these pictures were a number of drawings by men long since well known, and of steady
repute among the dealers or in the auctions, especially of Birmingham and the northern towns.
Morrison had been for years a bank-clerk in Birmingham before his appointment to the post he
now held. A group of Midland artists, whose work had become famous, and costly in proportion,
had evidently been his friends at one time--or perhaps merely his debtors. They were at any
rate well represented on the wall of this small Westmoreland house in which he spent his holidays.

Presently Mr. Morrison was heard returning. He placed an envelope in Fenwick's hand, and then,
pointing him to a chair at the table, he dictated a form of IOU, specifying that the debt was
to be returned within a year, either in money or in the pictures agreed upon.

'Oh, no fine speeches, please, my boy--no fine speeches!' said Morrison, as the artist rose,
stammering out his thanks. 'That's been my nature all my life, I tell you--to help the lame
dogs--ask anybody that knows me. That'll do; that'll do! Now then, what's going to be your
line of action?'

Fenwick turned on him a face that vainly endeavoured to hide the joy of its owner.

'I shall look out, of course, first of all, for some bread-and-butter work. I shall go to the
editors of the illustrated papers and show them some things. I shall attend some life-school
in the evenings. And the rest of the time I shall paint--paint like Old Harry!'

The words caused a momentary wrinkling of Mr. Morrison's brow.

'I should avoid those expressions, if I were you, Fenwick. But paint what, my dear boy?--paint
what?'

'Of course I have my ideas,' said Fenwick, staring at the floor.

'I think I have earned a right to hear them.'

'Certainly. I propose to combine the colour and romance of the Pre-Raphaelites with the truth
and drawing of the French school,' said the young man, suddenly looking up.

Surprise betrayed his companion into a broad grin.

'Upon my word, Fenwick, you won't fail for lack of ambition!'

The young man reddened, then quietly nodded.

'No one gets on without ambition. My ideas have been pretty clear for a long time. The English
Romantic school have no more future, unless they absorb French drawing and French technique.
When they have done that, they will do the finest work in the world.'

Morrison's astonishment increased. The decision and self-confidence with which Fenwick spoke
had never yet shown themselves so plainly in the harassed and humbly born painter of Miss Bella's
portrait.

'And you intend to do the finest work in the world?' said the patron, in a voice of banter.

Fenwick hesitated.

'I shall do good work,' he said, doggedly, after a pause. Then, suddenly raising his head,
he added, 'And if I weren't sure of it, I'd never let you lend me money.'

Morrison laughed.

'That's all right.--And now what will Mrs. Fenwick say to us?'

Fenwick turned away. He repossessed himself of the envelope, and buttoned his coat over it,
before he replied.

'I shall, of course, consult her immediately. What shall I do with this picture?' He pointed
to the portrait on the easel.

'Take it home with you, and see if you can't beautify it a little,' said Morrison, in a tone
of good-humour. 'You've got a lot of worldly wisdom to learn yet, my dear Fenwick. The women
must be flattered.'

Fenwick repeated that he was sorry if Miss Bella was disappointed, but the tone was no less
perfunctory than before. After stooping and looking sharply for a moment into the picture--which
was a strong, ugly thing, with some passages of remarkable technique--he put it aside, saving
that he would send for it in the evening. Then, having packed up and shouldered the rest of
his painter's gear, he stood ready to depart.

'I'm awfully obliged to you!' he said, holding out his hand.

Morrison looked at the handsome young fellow, the vivacity of the eyes, the slight agitation
of the lip.

'Don't mention it,' he said, with redoubled urbanity. 'It's my way--only my way! When'll you
be off?'

'Probably next week. I'll come and say good-bye.'

'I must have a year! But Phoebe will take it hard.' John Fenwick had paused on his way home,
and was leaning over a gate beside a stream, now thinking anxiously of his domestic affairs,
and now steeped in waves of delight--vague, sensuous, thrilling--that flowed from the colours
and forms around him. He found himself in an intricate and lovely valley, through which lay
his path to Langdale. On either side of the stream, wooded or craggy fells, gashed with stone-quarries,
accompanied the windings of the water, now leaving room for a scanty field or two, and now
hemming in the river with close-piled rock and tree. Before him rose a white Westmoreland farm,
with its gabled porch and moss-grown roof, its traditional yews and sycamores; while to his
left, and above the farm, hung a mountain-face, dark with rock, and purple under the evening
shadows--a rich and noble shape, lost above in dim heights of cloud, and, below, cleft to the
heart by one deep ghyll, whence the golden trees--in the glittering green of May--descended
single or in groups, from shelf to shelf, till their separate brilliance was lost in the dense
wood which girdled the white farmhouse.

The pleasure of which he was conscious in the purple of the mountain, the colour of the trees,
and all that magic of light and shade which filled the valley--a pleasure involuntary, physical,
automatic, depending on certain delicacies of nerve and brain--rose and persisted, while yet
his mind was full of harassing and disagreeable thoughts.

Well, Phoebe might take her choice!--for they had come to the parting of the ways. Either a
good painter, a man on the level of the best, trained and equipped as they, or something altogether
different--foreman, a clerk, perhaps, in his uncle's upholstery business at Darlington, a ticket-collector
on the line--anything! He could always earn his own living and Phoebe's. There was no fear
of that. But if he was finally to be an artist, he would be a first-rate one. Let him only
get more training; give him time and opportunity; and he would be as good as any one.

Morrison, plainly, had thought him a conceited ass. Well, let him!

What chance had he ever had of proving what was in him? As he hung over the gate smoking, he
thought of his father and mother, and of his childhood in the little Kendal shop--the bookseller's
shop which had been the source and means of his truest education.

Not that he had been a neglected child. Far from it. He remembered his gentle mother, troubled
by his incessant drawing, by his growing determination to be an artist, by the constant effort
as he grew to boyhood to keep the peace between him and his irritable old father. He remembered
her death--and those pictorial effects in the white-sheeted room--effects of light and shadow--of
flowers--of the grey head uplifted; he remembered also trying to realise them, stealthily,
at night, in his own room, with chalk and paper--and then his passion with himself, and the
torn drawing, and the tears, which, as it were, another self saw and approved.

Then came school-days. His father had sent him to an old endowed school at Penrith, that he
might be away from home and under discipline. There he had received a plain commercial education,
together with some Latin and Greek. His quick, restless mind had soaked it all in; nothing
had been a trouble to him; though, as he well knew, he had done nothing supremely well. But
Homer and Virgil had been unlocked for him; and in the school library he found Shakespeare
and Chaucer, 'Morte d'Arthur' and 'Don Quixote,' fresh and endless material for his drawing,
which never stopped. Drawing everywhere--on his books and slates, on doors and gate-posts,
or on the whitewashed wall of the old Tudor school-room, where a hunt, drawn with a burned
stick, and gloriously dominating the whole room, had provoked the indulgence, even the praise,
of the headmaster.

And the old drawing-master!--a German--half blind, though he would never confess it--who dabbled
in oil-painting, and let the boy watch his methods. How he would twirl his dirty brush round
and dab down a lump of Prussian blue, imagining it to be sepia, hastily correcting it a moment
afterwards with a lump of lake, and then say chuckling to himself: 'By Gode, dat is fine!--dat
is very nearly a good purple. Fenwick, my boy, mark me--you vill not find a good purple no-vere!
Some-vere--in de depths of Japanese art--dere is a good purple. Dat I believe. But not in Europe.
Ve Europeans are all tam fools. But I vill not svear!--no!--you onderstand, Fenwick; you haf
never heard me svear?' And then a round oath, smothered in a hasty fit of coughing. And once
he had cut off part of the skirt of his Sunday coat, taking it in his blindness for an old
one, to clean his palette with; and it was thought, by the boys, that it was the unseemly result
of this rash act, as disclosed at church the following Sunday morning, which had led to the
poor old man's dismissal.

