Of the army of women artists of the last century it is not yet possible to speak with judgment
and justice, although many have executed works of which all women may be proud.

We have some knowledge of women artists in ancient days. Few stories of that time are so authentic
as that of Kora, who made the design for the first bas-relief, in the city of Sicyonia, in
the seventh century B. C. We have the names of other Greek women artists of the centuries immediately
preceding and following the Christian era, but we know little of their lives and works.

Calypso was famous for the excellence of her character pictures, a remarkable one being a portrait
of Theodorus, the Juggler. A picture found at Pompeii, now at Naples, is attributed to this
artist; but its authorship is so uncertain that little importance can be attached to it. Pliny
praised Eirene, among whose pictures was one of "An Aged Man" and a portrait of "Alcisthenes,
the Dancer."

In the annals of Roman Art we find few names of women. For this reason Laya, who lived about
a century before the Christian era, is important. She is honored as the original painter of
miniatures, and her works on ivory were greatly esteemed. Pliny says she did not marry, but
pursued her art with absolute devotion; and he considered her pictures worthy of great praise.

A large picture in Naples is said to be the work of Laya, but, as in the case of Calypso, we
have no assurance that it is genuine. It is also said that Laya's portraits commanded larger
prices than those of Sopolis and Dyonisius, the most celebrated portrait painters of their time.

Our scanty knowledge of individual women artists of antiquity--mingled with fable as it doubtless
is--serves the important purpose of proving that women, from very ancient times, were educated
as artists and creditably followed their profession beside men of the same periods.

This knowledge also awakens imagination, and we wonder in what other ancient countries there
were women artists. We know that in Egypt inheritances descended in the female line, as in
the case of the Princess Karamat; and since we know of the great architectural works of Queen
Hashop and her journey to the land of Punt, we may reasonably assume that the women of ancient
Egypt had their share in all the interests of life. Were there not artists among them who decorated
temples and tombs with their imperishable colors? Did not women paint those pictures of Isis--goddess
of Sothis--that are like precursors of the pictures of the Immaculate Conception? Surely we
may hope that a papyrus will be brought to light that will reveal to us the part that women
had in the decoration of the monuments of ancient Egypt.

At present we have no reliable records of the lives and works of women artists before the time
of the Renaissance in Italy.

       *       *       *       *       *

M. Taine's philosophy which regards the art of any people or period as the necessary result
of the conditions of race, religion, civilization, and manners in the midst of which the art
was produced--and esteems a knowledge of these conditions as sufficient to account for the
character of the art, seems to me to exclude many complex and mysterious influences, especially
in individual cases, which must affect the work of the artists. At the same time an intelligent
study of the art of any nation or period demands a study of the conditions in which it was
produced, and I shall endeavor in this résumé of the history of women in Art--mere outline
as it is--to give an idea of the atmosphere in which they lived and worked, and the influences
which affected the results of their labor.

It has been claimed that everything of importance that originated in Italy from the thirteenth
to the seventeenth century bore the distinctive mark of Fine Art. So high an authority as John
Addington Symonds is in accord with this view, and the study of these four centuries is of
absorbing interest.

Although the thirteenth century long preceded the practice of art by women, its influence was
a factor in the artistic life into which they later came. In this century Andrea Tan, Guido
da Siena, and other devoted souls were involved in the final struggles of Mediaeval Art, and
at its close Cimabue and Duccio da Siena--the two masters whose Madonnas were borne in solemn
procession through the streets of Florence and Siena, mid music and the pealing of bells--had
given the new impulse to painting which brought them immortal fame. They were the heralds of
the time when poetry of sentiment, beauty of color, animation and individuality of form should
replace Mediaeval formality and ugliness; a time when the spirit of art should be revived with
an impulse prophetic of its coming glory.

But neither this portentous period nor the fourteenth century is memorable in the annals of
women artists. Not until the fifteenth, the century of the full Renaissance, have we a record
of their share in the great rebirth.

It is important to remember that the art of the Renaissance had, in the beginning, a distinct
office to fill in the service of the Church. Later, in historical and decorative painting,
it served the State, and at length, in portrait and landscape painting, in pictures of genre
subjects and still-life, abundant opportunity was afforded for all orders of talent, and the
generous patronage of art by church, state, and men of rank and wealth, made Italy a veritable
paradise for artists.

Gradually, with the revival of learning, artists were free to give greater importance to secular
subjects, and an element of worldliness, and even of immorality, invaded the realm of art as
it invaded the realms of life and literature.

This was an era of change in all departments of life. Chivalry, the great "poetic lie," died
with feudalism, and the relations between men and women became more natural and reasonable
than in the preceding centuries. Women were liberated from the narrow sphere to which they
had been relegated in the minstrel's song and poet's rhapsody, but as yet neither time nor
opportunity had been given them for the study and development which must precede noteworthy
achievement.

Remarkable as was the fifteenth century for intellectual and artistic activity, it was not
productive in its early decades of great genius in art or letters. Its marvellous importance
was apparent only at its close and in the beginning of the sixteenth century, when the works
of Leonardo, Michael Angelo, Raphael, Titian, and their followers emphasized the value of the
progressive attainments of their predecessors.

The assertion and contradiction of ideas and theories, the rivalries of differing schools,
the sweet devotion of Fra Angelico, the innovations of Masolino and Masaccio, the theory of
perspective of Paolo Uccello, the varied works of Fabriano, Antonello da Messina, the Lippi,
Botticelli, Ghirlandajo, the Bellini, and their contemporaries, culminated in the inimitable
painting of the Cinquecento--in works still unsurpassed, ever challenging artists of later
centuries to the task of equalling or excelling them.

The demands of the art of the Renaissance were so great, and so unlike those of earlier days,
that it is not surprising that few women, in its beginning, attained to such excellence as
to be remembered during five centuries. Especially would it seem that an insurmountable obstacle
had been placed in the way of women, since the study of anatomy had become a necessity to an
artist. This, and kindred hindrances, too patent to require enumeration, account for the fact
that but two Italian women of this period became so famous as to merit notice--Caterina Vigri
and Onorata Rodiana, whose stories are given in the biographical part of this book.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Flanders, late in the fourteenth and early in the fifteenth centuries, women were engaged
in the study and practice of art. In Bruges, when the Van Eycks were inventing new methods
in the preparation of colors, and painting their wonderful pictures, beside them, and scarcely
inferior to them, was their sister, Margaretha, who sacrificed much of her artistic fame by
painting portions of her brothers' pictures, unless the fact that they thought her worthy of
thus assisting them establishes her reputation beyond question.

In the fifteenth century we have reason to believe that many women practised art in various
departments, but so scanty and imperfect are the records of individual artists that little
more than their names are known, and we have no absolute knowledge of the value of their works,
or where, if still existing, they are to be seen.

The art of the Renaissance reached its greatest excellence during the last three decades of
the fifteenth and the first half of the sixteenth century. This was a glorious period in the
History of Art. The barbarism of the Middle Ages was essentially a thing of the past, but much
barbaric splendor in the celebration of ceremonies and festivals still remained to satisfy
the artistic sense, while every-day costumes and customs lent a picturesqueness to ordinary
life. So much of the pagan spirit as endured was modified by the spirit of the Renaissance.
The result was a new order of things especially favorable to painting.

An artist now felt himself as free to illustrate the pagan myths as to represent the events
in the lives of the Saviour, the Virgin and the saints, and the actors in the sacred subjects
were represented with the same beauty and grace of form as were given the heroes and heroines
of Hellenic legend. St. Sebastian was as beautiful as Apollo, and the imagination and senses
were moved alike by pictures of Danae and the Magdalene--the two subjects being often the work
of the same artist.

The human form was now esteemed as something more than the mere habitation of a soul; it was
beautiful in itself and capable of awakening unnumbered emotions in the human heart. Nature,
too, presented herself in a new aspect and inspired the artist with an ardor in her representation
such as few of the older painters had experienced in their devotion to religious subjects.

This expansion of thought and purpose was inaugurating an art attractive to women, to which
the increasing liberty of artistic theory and practice must logically make them welcome; a
result which is a distinguishing feature of sixteenth-century painting.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sixteenth century was noteworthy for the generous patronage of art, especially in Florence,
where the policy of its ruling house could not fail to produce marvellous results, and the
history of the Medici discloses many reasons why the bud of the Renaissance perfected its bloom
in Florence more rapidly and more gloriously than elsewhere.

For centuries Italy had been a treasure-house of Greek, Etruscan, and Byzantine Art. In no
other country had a civilization like that of ancient Rome existed, and no other land had been
so richly prepared to be the birthplace and to promote the development of the art of the Renaissance.

The intellectually progressive life of this period did much for the advancement of women. The
fame of Vittoria Colonna, Tullia d'Aragona, Olympia Morata, and many others who merit association
in this goodly company, proves the generous spirit of the age, when in the scholastic centres
of Italy women were free to study all branches of learning.

The pursuit of art was equally open to them and women were pupils in all the schools and in
the studios of many masters; even Titian instructed a woman, and all the advantages for study
enjoyed by men were equally available for women. Many names of Italian women artists could
be added to those of whom I have written in the biographical portion of this book, but too
little is known of their lives and works to be of present interest. There is, however, little
doubt that many pictures attributed to "the School of" various masters were painted by women.

       *       *       *       *       *

Art did not reach its perfection in Venice until later than in Florence, and its special contribution,
its glorious color, imparted to it an attraction unequalled on the sensuous plane. This color
surrounded the artists of that sumptuous city of luxurious life and wondrous pageants, and
was so emphasized by the marvellous mingling of the semi-mist and the brilliancy of its atmosphere
that no man who merited the name of artist could be insensible to its inspiration.

The old Venetian realism was followed, in the time of the Renaissance, by startling developments.
In the works of Tintoretto and Veronese there is a combination of gorgeous draperies, splendid
and often licentious costumes, brilliant metal accessories, and every possible device for enhancing
and contrasting colors, until one is bewildered and must adjust himself to these dazzling spectacles--religious
subjects though they may be--before any serious thought or judgment can be brought to bear
upon their artistic merit; these two great contemporaries lived and worked in the final decades
of the sixteenth century.

We know that many women painted pictures in Venice before the seventeenth century, although
we have accurate knowledge of but few, and of these an account is given later in this book.

We who go from Paris to London in a few hours, and cross the St. Gothard in a day, can scarcely
realize the distance that separated these capitals from the centres of Italian art in the time
of the Renaissance. We have, however, abundant proof that the sacred fire of the love of Art
and Letters was smouldering in France, Germany, and England--and when the inspiring breath
of the Renaissance was wafted beyond the Alps a flame burst forth which has burned clearer
and brighter with succeeding centuries.

From the time of Vincent de Beauvais, who died in 1264, France had not been wanting in illustrious
scholars, but it could not be said that a French school of art existed. François Clouet or
Cloet, called Jehannet, was born in Tours about 1500. His portraits are seen in the Gallery
of the Louvre, and have been likened to those of Holbein; but they lack the strength and spirit
of that artist; in fact, the distinguishing feature of Clouet's work is the remarkable finish
of draperies and accessories, while the profusion of jewels distracts attention from the heads
of his subjects.

The first great French artists were of the seventeenth century, and although Clouet was painter
to Francis I. and Henry II., the former, like his predecessors, imported artists from Italy,
among whom were Leonardo da Vinci and Benvenuto Cellini.

In letters, however, there were French women of the sixteenth century who are still famous.
Marguerite de Valois was as cultivated in mind as she was generous and noble in character.
Her love of learning was not easily satisfied. She was proficient in Hebrew, the classics,
and the usual branches of "profane letters," as well as an accomplished scholar in philosophy
and theology. As an author--though her writings are somewhat voluminous and not without merit--she
was comparatively unimportant; her great service to letters was the result of the sympathy
and encouragement she gave to others.

Wherever she might be, she was the centre of a literary and religious circle, as well as of
the society in which she moved. She was in full sympathy with her brother in making his "Collège"
an institution in which greater liberty was accorded to the expression of individual opinion
than had before been known in France, and by reason of her protection of liberty in thought
and speech she suffered much in the esteem of the bigots of her day.

The beautiful Mlle. de Heilly--the Duchesse d'Etampes--whose influence over Francis I. was
pre-eminent, while her character was totally unlike that of his sister, was described as "the
fairest among the learned, and the most learned among the fair." When learning was thus in
favor at Court, it naturally followed that all capacity for it was cultivated and ordinary
intelligence made the most of; and the claim that the intellectual brilliancy of the women
of the Court of Francis I. has rarely been equalled is generally admitted. There were, however,
no artists among them--they wielded the pen rather than the brush.

       *       *       *       *       *

In England, as in France, there was no native school of art in the sixteenth century, and Flemish,
Dutch, and German artists crossed the channel when summoned to the English Court, as the Italians
crossed the Alps to serve the kings of France.

English women of this century were far less scholarly than those of Italy and France. At the
same time they might well be proud of a queen who "could quote Pindar and Homer in the original
and read every morning a portion of Demosthenes, being also the royal mistress of eight languages."
With our knowledge of the queen's scholarship in mind we might look to her for such patronage
of art and literature as would rival that of Lorenzo the Magnificent; but Elizabeth lacked
the generosity of the Medici and that of Marguerite de Valois.

Lady Jane Grey and the daughters of Sir Anthony Cooke are familiar examples of learned women,
and many English titled and gentlewomen were well versed in Greek and Latin, as well as in
Spanish, Italian, and French. Macaulay reminded his readers that if an Englishwoman of that
day did not read the classics she could read little, since the then existing books--outside
the Italian--would fill a shelf but scantily. Thus English girls read Plato, and doubtless
English women excelled Englishmen in their proficiency in foreign languages, as they do at present.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Germany the relative position of Art and Letters was the opposite to that in France and
England. The School of Cologne was a genuinely native school of art in the fourteenth century.
Although the Niebelungen Lied and Gudrun, the Songs of Love and Volkslieder, as well as Mysteries
and Passion Plays, existed from an early date, we can scarcely speak of a German Literature
before the sixteenth century, when Albert Dürer and the younger Holbein painted their great
pictures, while Luther, Melanchthon and their sympathizers disseminated the doctrines of advancing
Protestantism.

At this period, in the countries we may speak of collectively as German, women artists were
numerous. Many were miniaturists, some of whom were invited to the English Court and received
with honor.

In 1521 Albert Dürer was astonished at the number of women artists in different parts of what,
for conciseness, we may call Germany. This was also noticeable in Holland, and Dürer wrote
in his diary, in the above-named year: "Master Gerard, of Antwerp, illuminist, has a daughter,
eighteen years of age, named Susannah, who illuminated a little book which I purchased for
a few guilders. It is wonderful that a woman could do so much!"

Antwerp became famous for its women artists, some of whom visited France, Italy, and Spain,
and were honorably recognized for their talent and attainments, wherever they went.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the later years of the sixteenth century a difference of opinion and purpose arose among
the artists of Italy, the effects of which were shown in the art of the seventeenth century.
Two distinct schools were formed, one of which included the conservatives who desired to preserve
and follow the manner of the masters of the Cinquecento, at the same time making a deeper study
of Nature--thus the devotional feeling and many of the older traditions would be retained while
each master could indulge his individuality more freely than heretofore. They aimed to unite
such a style as Correggio's--who belonged to no school--with that of the severely mannered
artists of the preceding centuries. These artists were called Eclectics, and the Bolognese
school of the Carracci was the most important centre of the movement, while Domenichino, a
native of Bologna--1581-1631--was the most distinguished painter of the school. Kugler calls
this "a patchwork ideal," which puts the matter in a nut-shell.

At one period the Eclectics produced harmonious pictures in a manner attractive to women, many
of whom studied under Domenichino, Giovanni Lanfranco, Guido Reni, the Campi, and others. Sofonisba
Anguisciola, Elisabetta Sirani, and the numerous women artists of Bologna were of this school.

The greatest excellence of this art was of short duration; it declined as did the literature,
and indeed, the sacred and political institutions of Italy in the seventeenth century. It should
not, however, be forgotten, that the best works of Guercino, the later pictures of Annibale
Carracci, and the important works of Domenichino and Salvator Rosa belong to this period.

The second school was that of the Naturalists, who professed to study Nature alone, representing
with brutal realism her repulsive aspects. Naples was the centre of these painters, and the
poisoning of Domenichino and many other dark and terrible deeds have been attributed to them.
Few women were attracted to this school, and the only one whose association with the Naturalisti
is recorded--Aniella di Rosa--paid for her temerity with her life.

       *       *       *       *       *

In Rome, Florence, Bologna, Venice, and other Italian cities, there were, in the seventeenth
century, many women who made enviable reputations as artists, some of whom were also known
for their literary and musical attainments. Anna Maria Ardoina, of Messina, made her studies
in Rome. She was gifted as a poet and artist, and so excelled in music that she had the distinguished
honor of being elected to the Academy of Arcadia.

Not a few gifted women of this time are remembered for their noble charities. Chiara Varotari,
under the instruction of her father and her brother, called Padovanino, became a good painter.
She was also honored as a skilful nurse, and the Grand Duke of Tuscany placed her portrait
in his gallery on account of his admiration and respect for her as a comforter of the suffering.

Giovanna Garzoni, a miniaturist, conferred such benefits upon the Academy of St. Luke that
a monument was there erected to her memory. Other artists founded convents, became nuns, and
imprinted themselves upon their age in connection with various honorable institutions and occupations.

       *       *       *       *       *

French Art in the seventeenth century was academic and prosaic, lacking the spontaneity, joyousness,
and intensely artistic feeling of Italian Art--a heritage from previous centuries which had
not been lost, and in which France had no part. The works of Poussin, which have been likened
to painted reliefs, afford an excellent example of French Art in his time--1594-1665--and this
in spite of the fact that he worked and studied much in Rome.

The Académie des Beaux-Arts was established by Louis XIV., and there was a rapidly growing
interest in art. As yet, however, the women of France affected literature rather than painting,
and in the seventeenth century they were remarkable for their scholarly attainments and their
influence in the world of letters.

Madame de Maintenon patronized learning; at the Hôtel Rambouillet men and women of genius met
the world of rank and fashion on common ground. Madame Dacier, of whom Voltaire said, "No woman
has ever rendered greater services to literature," made her translations from the classics;
Madame de Sevigné wrote her marvellous letters; Mademoiselle de Scudéry and Madame Lafayette
their novels; Catherine Bernard emulated the manner of Racine in her dramas; while Madame de
Guyon interpreted the mystic Song of Solomon.

Of French women artists of this period we can mention several names, but they were so overshadowed
by authors as to be unimportant, unless, like Elizabeth Chéron, they won both artistic and
literary fame.

       *       *       *       *       *

The seventeenth century was an age of excellence in the art of Flanders, Belgium, and Holland,
and is known as the second great epoch of painting in the Netherlands, this name including
the three countries just mentioned.

After the calamities suffered under Charles V. and Philip II., with returning peace and prosperity
an art was developed, both original and rich in artistic power. The States-General met in 1600,
and the greatest artists of the Netherlands did their work in the succeeding fifty years; and
before the century closed the appreciation of art and the patronage which had assured its elevation
were things of the past.

Rubens was twenty-three years old in 1600, just ready to begin his work which raised the school
of Belgium to its highest attainments. When we remember how essentially his art dominated his
own country and was admired elsewhere, we might think--I had almost said fear--that his brilliant,
vigorous, and voluptuous manner would attract all artists of his day to essay his imitation.
But among women artists Madame O'Connell was the first who could justly be called his imitator,
and her work was done in the middle of the nineteenth century.

When we turn to the genre painting of the Flemish and Dutch artists we find that they represented
scenes in the lives of coarse, drunken boors and vulgar women--works which brought these artists
enduring fame by reason of their wonderful technique; but we can mention one woman only, Anna
Breughel, who seriously attempted the practice of this art. She is thought to have been of
the family of Velvet Breughel, who lived in the early part of the seventeenth century.

Like Rubens, Rembrandt numbered few women among his imitators. The women of his day and country
affected pleasing delineations of superficial motives, and Rembrandt's earnestness and intensity
were seemingly above their appreciation--certainly far above their artistic powers.

A little later so many women painted delicate and insipid subjects that I have not space even
for their names. A critic has said that the Dutch school "became a nursery for female talent."
It may have reached the Kindergarten stage, but went no farther.

Flower painting attained great excellence in the seventeenth century. The most elaborate masters
in this art were the brothers De Heem, Willem Kalf, Abraham Mignon, and Jan van Huysum. Exquisite
as the pictures by these masters are, Maria van Oosterwyck and Rachel Ruysch disputed honors
with them, and many other women excelled in this delightful art.

An interesting feature in art at this time was the intimate association of men and women artists
and the distinction of women thus associated.

Gerard Terburg, whose pictures now have an enormous value, had two sisters, Maria and Gezina,
whose genre pictures were not unworthy of comparison with the works of their famous brother.
Gottfried Schalken, remarkable for his skill in the representation of scenes by candle light,
was scarcely more famous than his sister Maria. Eglon van der Neer is famous for his pictures
of elegant women in marvellous satin gowns. He married Adriana Spilberg, a favorite portrait
painter. The daughters of the eminent engraver Cornelius Visscher, Anna and Maria, were celebrated
for their fine etching on glass, and by reason of their poems and their scholarly acquirements
they were called the "Dutch Muses," and were associated with the learned men of their day.
This list, though incomplete, suggests that the co-education of artists bore good fruit in
their co-operation in their profession.

       *       *       *       *       *

In England, while there was a growing interest in painting, the standard was that of foreign
schools, especially the Dutch. Foreign artists found a welcome and generous patronage at the
English Court. Mary Beale and Anne Carlisle are spoken of as English artists, and a few English
women were miniaturists. Among these was Susannah Penelope Gibson, daughter of Richard Gibson,
the Dwarf. While these women were not wanting in artistic taste, they were little more than
copyists of the Dutch artists with whom they had associated.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the early years of the seventeenth century there were a number of Danish women who were
painters, engravers, and modellers in wax. The daughter of King Christian IV., Elenora Christina,
and her daughter, Helena Christina, were reputable artists. The daughter of Christian V., Sophie
Hedwig, made a reputation as a portrait, landscape, and flower painter, which extended beyond
her own country; and Anna Crabbe painted a series of portraits of Danish princes, and added
to them descriptive verses of her own composition.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Art of Spain attained its greatest glory in the seventeenth century--the century of Velasquez,
Murillo, Ribera, and other less distinguished but excellent artists.

In the last half of this century women artists were prominent in the annals of many Spanish
cities. In the South mention is made of these artists, who were of excellent position and aristocratic
connection. In Valencia, the daughter of the great portrait painter Alonzo Coello was distinguished
in both painting and music. She married Don Francesco de Herrara, Knight of Santiago.

In Cordova the sister of Palomino y Vasco--the artist who has been called the Vasari of Spain
on account of his Museo Pictorio--was recognized as a talented artist. In Madrid, Velasquez
numbered several noble ladies among his pupils; but no detailed accounts of the works of these
artists is available--if any such exist--and their pictures are in private collections.

       *       *       *       *       *

The above outline of the general conditions of Art in the seventeenth century will suggest
the reasons for there being a larger number of women artists in Italy than elsewhere--especially
as they were pupils in the studios of the best masters as well as in the schools of the Carracci
and other centres of art study.

       *       *       *       *       *

Italian artists of the eighteenth century have been called scene painters, and, in truth, many
of their works impress one as hurried attempts to cover large spaces. Originality was wanting
and a wearisome mediocrity prevailed. At the same time certain national artistic qualities
were apparent; good arrangement of figures and admirable effects of color still characterized
Italian painting, but the result was, on the whole, academic and uninteresting.

The ideals cherished by older artists were lost, and nothing worthy to replace them inspired
their followers. The sincerity, earnestness, and devotion of the men who served church and
state in the decoration of splendid monuments would have been out of place in the service of
amateurs and in the decoration of the salons and boudoirs of the rich, and the painting of
this period had little permanent value, in comparison with that of preceding centuries.

Italian women, especially in the second half of the century, were professors in universities,
lectured to large audiences, and were respectfully consulted by men of science and learning
in the various branches of scholarship to which they were devoted. Unusual honors were paid
them, as in the case of Maria Portia Vignoli, to whom a statue was erected in the public square
of Viterbo to commemorate her great learning in natural science.

An artist, Matilda Festa, held a professorship in the Academy of St. Luke in Rome, and Maria
Maratti, daughter of the Roman painter Carlo Maratti, made a good reputation both as an artist
and a poetess.

In Northern Italy many women were famous in sculpture, painting, and engraving. At least forty
could be named, artists of good repute, whose lives were lacking in any unusual interest, and
whose works are in private collections. One of these was a princess of Parma, who married the
Archduke Joseph of Austria, and was elected to the Academy of Vienna in 1789.

       *       *       *       *       *

In France, in the beginning of this century Watteau, 1684-1721, painted his interesting pictures
of La Belle Société, reproducing the court life, costumes, and manners of the reign of Louis
XIV. with fidelity, grace, and vivacity. Later in the century, Greuze, 1725-1805, with his
attractive, refined, and somewhat mannered style, had a certain influence. Claude Vernet, 1714-1789,
and David, 1748-1825, each great in his way, influenced the nineteenth as well as the eighteenth
century. Though Vien, 1716-1809, made a great effort to revive classic art, he found little
sympathy with his aim until the works of his pupil David won recognition from the world of
the First Empire.

French Art of this period may be described by a single word--eclectic--and this choice by each
important artist of the style he would adopt culminated in the Rococo School, which may be
defined as the unusual and fantastic in art. It was characterized by good technique and pleasing
color, but lacked purpose, depth, and warmth of feeling. As usual in a pot-pourri, it was far
enough above worthlessness not to be ignored, but so far short of excellence as not to be admired.

In France during this century there was an army of women artists, painters, sculptors, and
engravers. Of a great number we know the names only; in fact, of but two of these, Adelaide
Vincent and Elizabeth Vigée Le Brun, have we reliable knowledge of their lives and works.

The eighteenth century is important in the annals of women artists, since their numbers then
exceeded the collective number of those who had preceded them--so far as is known--from the
earliest period in the history of art. In a critical review of the time, however, we find a
general and active interest in culture and art among women rather than any considerable number
of noteworthy artists.

Germany was the scene of the greatest activity of women artists. France held the second place
and Italy the third, thus reversing the conditions of preceding centuries.

       *       *       *       *       *

Many German women emulated the examples of the earlier flower painters, but no one was so important
as to merit special attention, though a goodly number were elected to academies and several
appointed painters to the minor courts.

Among the genre and historical painters we find the names of Anna Amalia of Brunswick and Anna
Maria, daughter of the Empress Maria Theresa, both of whom were successful artists.

In Berlin and Dresden the interest in art was much greater in the eighteenth than in previous
centuries, and with this new impulse many women devoted themselves to various specialties in
art. Miniature and enamel painting were much in vogue, and collections of these works, now
seen in museums and private galleries, are exquisitely beautiful and challenge our admiration,
not only for their beauty, but for the delicacy of their handling and the infinite patience
demanded for their execution.

The making of medals was carried to great excellence by German women, as may be seen in a medal
of Queen Sophie Charlotte, which is preserved in the royal collection of medals. It is the
work of Rosa Elizabeth Schwindel, of Leipsic, who was well known in Berlin in the beginning
of the century.

The cutting of gems was also extensively done by women. Susannah Dorsch was famous for her
accomplishment in this art. Her father and grandfather had been gem-cutters, and Susannah could
not remember at what age she began this work. So highly was she esteemed as an artist that
medals were made in her honor.

As frequently happens in a study of this kind, I find long lists of the names of women artists
of this period of whose lives and works I find no record, while the events related in other
cases are too trivial for repetition. This is especially true in Holland, where we find many
names of Dutch women who must have been reputable artists, since they are mentioned in Art
Chronicles of their time; but we know little of their lives and can mention no pictures executed
by them.

       *       *       *       *       *

A national art now existed in England. Hogarth, who has been called the Father of English Painting,
was a man of too much originality to be a mere imitator of foreign artists. He devoted his
art to the representation of the follies of his time. As a satirist he was eminent, but his
mirth-provoking pictures had a deeper purpose than that of amusing. Lord Orford wrote: "Mirth
colored his pictures, but benevolence designed them. He smiled like Socrates, that men might
not be offended at his lectures, and might learn to laugh at their own folly."

Sir Joshua Reynolds and Thomas Gainsborough were born and died in the eighteenth century; their
famous works were contemporary with the founding of the Royal Academy in 1768, when these artists,
together with Angelica Kauffman and Mary Moser, were among its original members.

It was a fashion in England at this time for women to paint; they principally affected miniature
and water-color pictures, but of the many who called themselves artists few merit our attention;
they practised but a feeble sort of imitative painting; their works of slight importance cannot
now be named, while their lives were usually commonplace and void of incident. Of the few exceptions
to this rule I have written in the later pages of this book.

       *       *       *       *       *

The suggestion that the nineteenth century cannot yet be judged as to its final effect in many
directions has already been made, and of nothing is this more true than of its Art. Of one
phase of this period, however, we may speak with confidence. No other century of which we know
the history has seen so many changes--such progress, or such energy of purpose so largely rewarded
as in the century we are considering.

To one who has lived through more than three score years of this period, no fairy tale is more
marvellous than the changes in the department of daily life alone.

