Their number was now reduced to twenty-five men, but the leader, a gigantic African, with a
massive, compact frame, and an arm of great strength, looked competent to put ten common men
to flight. He clenched his powerful fist, and declared that he would resist unto death, before
he would be arrested by those savage men, even if they promised not to flog him. They closed
the door, and agreed not to open it; and then the leader cried, "Extinguish the lights and
let them come! we will meet them hand to hand!" Five of the number he stationed near the door,
with orders to rush out, if the patrol entered, and seize their horses, cut the bridles, or
otherwise unfit them for use. This would prevent them from giving an alarm and getting a reinforcement
from surrounding plantations. In silence they awaited the approach of the enemy, and soon the
tramping of horses' feet announced their approach, but when within a few yards of the house
they halted, and were overheard by one of the skulking slaves, maturing their plans and mode
of attack. There was great hesitancy expressed by a part of the company to engage in the affair
at all.

  "Coming events cast their shadow before."

The majority, however, seemed to think it safe enough, and uttered expressions of triumph that
they had got the rascals at last.

"Are you not afraid that they will resist?" said the weaker party.

"Resist?" was the astonished answer. "This old fellow, the Colonel, has pampered and indulged
his slaves, it is true, and they have slipped through our fingers whenever we have attempted
to chastise them; but they are not such fools as to dare resistance! Those niggers know as
well as we, that it is death, by the law of the State, for a slave to strike a white man."

"Very true," said the other, "but it is dark and long past midnight, and beside they have been
indulging their appetites, and we cannot tell what they may attempt to do."

"Pshaw!" he answered, contemptuously, "they are unarmed, and I should not fear in the least,
to go in among them alone, armed only with my cowhide!"

"As you please, then," he said, rather dubiously, "but look well to your weapons; are they
in order?"

"In prime order, Sir." And putting spurs to their horses, were soon at the house, where they
dismounted and requested one of the party to remain with the horses.

"What," said he, "are you so chicken-hearted as to suppose those d----d cowardly niggers are
going to get up an insurrection?"

"Oh no," he replied, carelessly, but would not consent to have the horses left alone. "Besides,"
said he, "they may forget themselves at this late hour; but if they do, a few lashes of the
cowhide will quicken their memory, I reckon."

The slaves were aware of their movements, and prepared to receive them.

They stepped up to the door boldly, and demanded admittance, but all was silent; they tried
to open it, but it was fastened. Those inside, ranged on each side of the door, and stood perfectly
still.

The patrol finding the slaves not disposed to obey, burst off the slight fastening that secured
the door, and the chief of the patrol bounded into their midst, followed by several of his
companions, all in total darkness!

Vain is the attempt to describe the tumultuous scene which followed. Hand to hand they fought
and struggled with each other, amid the terrific explosion of firearms,--oaths and curses,
mingled with the prayers of the wounded, and the groans of the dying! Two of the patrol were
killed on the spot, and lay drenched in the warm blood that so lately flowed through their
veins. Another with his arm broken and otherwise wounded, lay groaning and helpless, beside
the fallen slaves, who had sold their lives so dearly. Another of his fellows was found at
a short distance, mortally wounded and about to bid adieu to life. In the yard lay the keeper
of the horses, a stiffened corpse. Six of the slaves were killed and two wounded.

It would be impossible to convey to the minds of northern people, the alarm and perfect consternation
that the above circumstance occasioned in that community. The knowledge of its occurrence was
carried from one plantation to another, as on the wings of the wind; exaggerated accounts were
given, and prophecies of the probable result made, until the excitement became truly fearful.
Every cheek was blanched and every frame trembled when listening to the tale, that "insurrection
among the slaves had commenced on the plantation of Col. Alexander; that three or four of the
patrol had been killed, &c." The day after, people flocked from every quarter, armed to the
teeth, swearing vengeance on the defenceless slaves. Nothing can teach plainer than this, the
constant and tormenting fear in which the slaveholder lives, and yet he repents not of his deeds.

The kind old Colonel was placed in the most difficult and unenviable position. His warm heart
was filled with sorrow for the loss of his slaves, but not alone, as is generally the case
in such instances, because he had lost so much property. He truly regretted the death of his
faithful servants, and boldly rebuked the occasion of their sudden decease. When beset and
harassed by his neighbors to give up his slaves to be tried for insurrection and murder, he
boldly resisted, contending for the natural right of the slaves, to act in their own defence,
and especially when on his own plantation and in their own quarters. They contended, however,
that as his slaves had got up a dance, and had invited those of the adjoining plantations,
the patrol was only discharging their duty in looking after them; but the gallant old Colonel
defended his slaves, and told them plainly that he should continue to do so to the extent of
his ability and means.

The poor slaves were sad enough, on the morning after their merry meeting, and they might be
seen standing in groups, conversing with a very different air from the one they had worn the
day before.

Their business was now to prepare the bodies of their late associates for the grave. Robert,
the brave African, who had so boldly led them on the night before, and who had so judiciously
provided for their escape, was calmly sleeping in death's cold embrace. He left a wife and
five slave children. Two of the other slaves left families, whose pitiful cries it was painful
to hear.

The Colonel's family, deeply afflicted by what was passing around them, attended the funeral.
One of the slaves, who sometimes officiated as a minister, read a portion of Scripture, and
gave out two hymns;--one of which commences with

  "Hark! from the tomb a doleful sound."

Both were sung with great solemnity by the congregation, and then the good old man offered
a prayer; after which he addressed the slaves on the shortness of human life and the certainty
of death, and more than once hinted at the hardness of their lot, assuring, however, his fellow-slaves,
that if they were good and faithful, all would be right hereafter. His master, Col. Alexander,
was deeply affected by this simple faith and sincere regard for the best interests of all,
both master and slave.

When the last look at their fellow-servants had been taken, the procession was formed in the
following manner: First, the old slave minister, then the remains of the dead, followed by
their weeping relatives; then came the master and his family; next the slaves belonging to
the plantation; and last, friends and strangers, black and white; all moved on solemnly to
the final resting-place of those brave men, whose descendants may yet be heard from, in defence
of right and freedom.

CHAPTER III.

HORSE-RACING AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

Capt. Helm had a race-course on his plantation, on which he trained young horses for the fall
races. One very fine horse he owned, called Mark Anthony, which he trained in the most careful
manner for several months previous to the races. He would put him on the course every morning,
sometimes covering him with a blanket, and then put him to his utmost speed, which he called
"sweating him." Mark Anthony was to be put on the race-course in October following, as a competitor
for the purse of ten thousand dollars, which was the amount to be lost or gained on the first
day of the fall races. Capt. H. had also another young horse, called Buffer, under a course
of training, which he designed to enter the lists for the second day. His course of training
had been about the same as Mark Anthony's, but being a year or two younger, it was thought
that he had not sufficient "bottom" to risk so much money on, as was at stake on the first day.

When the time for the races to commence came, all was bustle and excitement in the house and
on the plantation. It was a fine October morning, and the sun shed a mellow radiance on all
around, when people began to throng the race-course. Some came with magnificent equipages,
attended by their numerous train of black servants, dressed in livery, --some in less splendid
array,--and others on foot, all hurrying on to the exciting scene. There the noblest blood
of Old Virginia, of which many are wont to boast, was fully represented, as was also the wealth
and fashion of the country for many miles around.

All were in high spirits, and none seemed to fear that they would be the losers in the amount
of money about to change hands. And for what, pray, is all this grand outlay--this vast expenditure?
Merely the pleasure and gratification of witnessing the speed of a fine horse, and the vanity
of prejudging concerning it.

The arrangements were at length completed,--the horses regularly entered, Mark Anthony among
the rest,--and then the word "go!" was given, when each horse sprang as if for his life, each
striving to take the lead. Away they go, sweeping round the course with lightning speed, while
every spectator's eye is strained, and every countenance flushed with intense anxiety.

Some of the noble animals were distanced the first heat, and others were taken away by their
owners.

The judges allowed twenty minutes to prepare the horses for the second trial of their speed--a
trial which must enrich or empoverish many of the thousands present. Already there were sad
countenances to be seen in the crowd.

The horses were again in readiness, and the word given,--away they flew with the fleetness
of the wind, to come in the second time.

But who can describe the anxiety written on every face, as they prepared for the third and
last trial? I cannot. Many had already lost all they had staked, and others who had bet high
began to fear for the result. Soon, however, all was again prepared and those foaming steeds,
after having exerted their animal power to the utmost, have accomplished their task and come
in for the last time. The purse was won, but not by Mark Anthony. Capt. Helm was more fortunate
the second day. Buffer won the smaller purse, but the Captain came from the races, a much poorer
man than when they commenced. These repeated failures and heavy losses had the effect to arouse
him to a sense of his pecuniary position, and he soon after began to think and talk about going
to some new country.

He resolved at last to visit the far-off "Genesee Country," which he shortly after put in practice,
and after an absence of about three weeks he returned in good health, and delighted with the
country; the more so, doubtless, because he said, "the more slaves a man possessed in that
country the more he would be respected, and the higher would be his position in society."

Capt. Helm finally concluded to sell his plantation and stock, except the slaves, and remove
to the Genesee Country, where he designed to locate his future residence.

The plantation and stock (retaining the slaves) were advertised for sale, and on a certain
day named, all would be disposed of at a public sale, or to the highest bidder.

When the day of sale arrived, there flocked from all parts of the surrounding country the largest
assemblage of people I ever saw in that place. A large number of wealthy and respectable planters
were present, whose gentlemanly behavior should have been an example to others.

The majority of that vast crowd, however, were a rough, quarrelsome, fighting set, just such
as might be expected from slave-holding districts. There were several regularly fought battles
during the first day of the sale.

One Thomas Ford, a large, muscular, ferocious-looking fellow, a good specimen of a southern
bully and woman-whipper, had been victorious through the day in numerous fights and brawls;
but he had to pay dear for it when night came. Some one or more of the vanquished party, took
advantage of the dark night to stab him in both sides. The knife of the assassin had been thrust
into his thigh, tearing the flesh upward, leaving a frightful and dangerous wound; but what
is most singular, both sides were wounded in nearly the same manner, and at the same time,
for so quickly was the deed committed that the offenders made their escape, before an alarm
could be raised for their detection; nor have I ever heard of any one being arrested for the crime.

Ford's groans and cries were painful to hear, but his brother acted like a madman; rushing
hither and thither, with a heavy bludgeon in his hand, with which he indiscriminately beat
the fences and whatever came in his way, crying "Oh my brother, my poor brother! Who has murdered
my poor brother?"

Physicians came to the aid of the wounded man who at first thought he might recover, but in
a climate like that of Virginia it was impossible. His friends did all they could to save him,
but the poor wretch lingered a few days and died. Thus ended the life of a bad man and a hard
master.

And who will wonder, if his slaves rejoiced to hear of his death? If they must be sold to pay
his debts, they could not fall into the hands of a more heartless tyrant. Who then can blame
those feeble women and helpless children, long held as chattels in his iron grasp, if they
are grateful that the man-stealer is no more?

This Ford was a fair specimen of that class, known in more modern parlance as a "Border Ruffian."
Such as are at this time endeavoring, by their swaggering and bullying, to cast on the fair
fields of Kansas the deep curse of Slavery--a curse which, like the poison of the deadly Upas,
blights all within its influence: the colored and the white man, the slave and the master.
We were thankful, however, that no more lives were lost during the vendue, which was commenced
with the stock; this occupied two days.

The reader will see that we had cause to be grateful, when he takes into consideration that
drinking and fighting was the order of the day, and drunkenness and carousing the order of
the night.

Then too, the practice of dueling was carried on in all its hideous barbarity. If a gentleman
thought himself insulted, he would immediately challenge the offender to mortal combat, and
if he refused to do so, then the insulted gentleman felt bound by that barbarous code of honor,
to take his life, whenever or wherever he might meet him, though it might be in a crowded assembly,
where the lives of innocent persons were endangered.

A case of this kind happened in Kentucky, where the belligerent parties met in a large concourse
of people, the majority of them women and children; but the combat ensued, regardless of consequences.
One woman was shot through the face, but that was not worthy of notice, for she was only a
colored woman; and in that, as in other slave States, the laws give to the white population
the liberty to trample under foot the claims of all such persons to justice. Justly indignant
ladies present remonstrated, but all to no purpose. The Governor of the State was there and
was in danger of being wounded by their flying bullets, and it is possible that if he had been
in the place of the poor African, some action would have been taken, and laws made to protect
the people against such inhuman practices. But I must return to Capt. Helm and the vendue.

The sale continued for several days, during which there was no such thing as rest or sleep
or one quiet moment on the premises. As was customary in that State, Capt. Helm provided the
food and drink for all who came, and of course a great many came to drink and revel and not
to buy; and that class generally took the night time for their hideous outbreaks, when the
more respectable class had retired to their beds or to their homes. And many foul deeds and
cruel outrages were committed; nor could the perpetrators be detected or brought to justice.
Nothing could be done but to submit quietly to their depredations.

One peaceable old slave was killed by having his head split open with an ax. He was found in
the morning lying in the yard, with the bloody instrument of death by his side. This occasioned
some excitement among the slaves, but as the white people paid but little attention to it,
it soon passed off, and the sorrowful slaves put the old man's remains in a rough box, and
conveyed them to their last resting-place.

After the sale was over, the slaves were allowed a holiday, with permission to go and visit
their friends and relatives previous to their departure for their new home in a strange land.

The slaves generally on Capt. Helm's plantation looked upon this removal as the greatest hardship
they had ever met; the severest trial they had ever endured; and the separation from our old
home and fellow-slaves, from our relatives and the old State of Virginia, was to us a contemplation
of sorrowful interest. Those who remained, thought us the most unfortunate of human beings
to be taken away off into the State of New York, and, as they believed, beyond the bounds of
civilization, where we should in all probability be destroyed by wild beasts, devoured by cannibals,
or scalped by the Indians. We never expected to meet again in this life, hence our parting
interviews were as solemn as though we were committing our friends to the grave. But He whose
tender mercies are over all his creatures, knew best what was for our good.

Little did Capt. Helm think when bringing his slaves to New York that in a few short years,
they would be singing the song of deliverance from Slavery's thralldom; and as little thought
he of the great and painful change, to be brought about in his own circumstances. Could any
one have looked into futurity and traced the difficult path, my master was to tread,--could
any one have foreseen the end to which he must soon come, and related it to him in the days
of his greatness and prosperity, he would, I am certain, have turned from such a narrator of
misfortune in a greater rage than did Namaan when the man of God told him "to go and dip seven
times in the Jordan."

He could not have believed, nor could I, that in a few years the powerful, wealthy slaveholder,
living in luxury and extravagance, would be so reduced that the necessaries of life even, were
beyond his means, and that he must be supported by the town!

But I anticipate. Let us return to the old plantation which seems dearer than ever, now that
we are about to leave it forever.

We thought Capt. Helm's prospects pretty fair, and yet we shuddered when we realized our condition
as slaves. This change in our circumstances was calculated to awaken all our fears that had
been slumbering, and bring all the perilous changes to which we might be subjected most vividly
to mind.

We were about to leave the land of our birth, the home of our childhood, and we felt that untried
scenes were before us. We were slaves, it is true, but we had heart-felt emotions to suppress,
when we thought of leaving all that was so familiar to us, and chose rather to "bear the ills
we had, than to fly to those we knew not of." And oh, the terrible uncertainty of the future,
that ever rests on the slave, even the most favored, was now felt with a crushing weight. To-day,
they are in the old familiar cabin surrounded by their family, relatives and friends; to-morrow,
they may be scattered, parted forever. The master's circumstances, not their own, may have
assigned one to the dreadful slave-pen, and another to the distant rice-swamp; and it is this
continual dread of some perilous future that holds in check every joyous emotion, every lofty
aspiration, of the most favored slave at the South. They know that their owners indulge in
high living, and they are well aware also that their continual indulgences engender disease,
which make them very liable to sudden death; or their master may be killed in a duel, or at
a horse-race, or in a drunken brawl; then his creditors are active in looking after the estate;
and next, the blow of the auctioneer's hammer separates them perhaps for life.

Now, after the lapse of so many years, when my thoughts wander back, as they often do, to my
native State, I confess that painful recollections drive from my mind those joyful emotions
that should ever arise in the heart of man, when contemplating the familiar scenes of his youth,
and especially when recurring to the venerable shades and the sheltering roof under which he
was born. True, around the well-remembered spot where our childhood's years were spent, recollection
still loves to linger; yet memory, ever ready with its garnered store, paints in glowing colors,
Virginia's crouching slaves in the foreground. Her loathsome slave-pens and slave markets--chains,
whips and instruments of torture; and back of all this is as truthfully recorded the certain
doom, the retributive justice, that will sooner or later overtake her; and with a despairing
sigh I turn away from the imaginary view of my native State.

What though she may have been justly styled, "The Mother of Presidents?" What avails the honor
of being the birth-place of the brave and excellent Washington, while the prayers and groans
of the down-trodden African daily ascend to heaven for redress? What though her soil be fertile,
yielding a yearly product of wealth to its possessors? And what matter is it, that their lordly
mansions are embowered in the shade of trees of a century's growth, if, through their lofty
and tangled branches, we espy the rough cabin of the mangled bondman, and know that the soil
on which he labors has drunk his heart's blood?

Ah! to me, life's sweetest memories are all embittered. Slavery had cast its dark and fearful
shadow over my childhood, youth, and early manhood, and I went out from the land of my birth,
a fettered slave. A land which I can regard only as "the house of bondage and the grave of
freedom." But God forgive me for having envied my master his fair prospects at this time.

After the sale of the plantation, Capt. Helm was in possession of quite a large sum of money,
and having never paid much attention to his pecuniary interests, he acted as if there could
be no end of it. He realized about forty thousand dollars from the sale of his estate in Virginia,
which would have been a pretty sum in the hands of a man who had been accustomed to look after
his own interests; but under the management of one who had all his life lived and prospered
on the unrequited toil of slaves, it was of little account. He bought largely of every thing
he thought necessary for himself or the comfort of his family, for which he always paid the
most extravagant prices. The Captain was not as well qualified to take care of himself and
family as some of his slaves were; but he thought differently, and so the preparations for
leaving the old plantation for a home in the wilds of New York, went on under his direction,
and at last we bade a final adieu to our friends and all we held dear in the State of Virginia.

CHAPTER IV.

JOURNEY TO OUR NEW HOME IN NEW YORK.

All things having been prepared for our departure, our last "Good-bye" spoken, and our last
look taken of the old plantation, we started, amid the sobs and prolonged cries of separating
families, in company with our master, the overseer and another white man named Davis, who went
with us to take back the five-horse "Pennsylvania team," which was provided for the conveyance
of the food for the slaves, and what little baggage they might have, and also that of the overseer.

Capt. Helm had determined to leave his family until he could get his slaves settled in their
future quarters, and a home provided for himself, when they were expected to join him.

We traveled northward, through Maryland, Pennsylvania, and a portion of New York, to Sodus
Bay, where we halted for some time. We made about twenty miles per day, camping out every night,
and reached that place after a march of twenty days. Every morning the overseer called the
roll, when every slave must answer to his or her name, felling to the ground with his cowhide,
any delinquent who failed to speak out in quick time.

After the roll had been called, and our scanty breakfast eaten, we marched on again, our company
presenting the appearance of some numerous caravan crossing the desert of Sahara. When we pitched
our tents for the night, the slaves must immediately set about cooking not their supper only,
but their breakfast, so as to be ready to start early the next morning, when the tents were
struck; and we proceeded on our journey in this way to the end.

At Sodus Bay there was then one small tavern, kept by a man named Sill.

The bay is ten miles in length and from a half to two miles in breadth, and makes an excellent
harbor. The surrounding country then was almost an unbroken wilderness.

After Capt. Helm had rested a few days at Sodus, he went six miles up the bay and purchased
a large tract of land lying on both sides of that beautiful sheet of water, and put his slaves
on to clear and cultivate it. Then came the "tug of war." Neither the overseer nor the slaves
had the least knowledge of clearing land, and that was the first thing to be done. It was useless
to consult the Captain, for he knew still less about matters of that kind. To obviate this
difficulty, our master bought out a Mr. Cummings, who had some cleared land on the west side
of the bay. On this he put the overseer and a part of the slaves, and then hired a Mr. Herrington
to take charge of the remainder. Herrington and his gang of slaves was sent to the east side
to chop down the heavy timber and clear the land for cultivation, all of which had first to
be learned, for we knew nothing of felling trees, and the poor slaves had rather a hard time of it.

Provisions were scarce and could not be procured for cash in that section. There was no corn
to be had, and we had but little left. We had no neighbors to assist us in this trying time,
and we came near starvation. True, the wild, romantic region in which we were located abounded
in game,--elk, deer, bear, panther, and wolves, roamed abroad through the dense forest, in
great abundance, but the business of the slaves was not hunting or fishing, but clearing the
land, preparatory to raising crops of grain the coming season.

At last Capt. Helm chartered a boat, and manned it to go to the mouth of the Genesee River
to buy corn. They embarked under favorable auspices, but soon there came on such a tremendous
storm, that the boat could no longer be managed, and the crew in despair threw themselves on
the bottom of the boat to await their inevitable destruction, when one of their number, a colored
man named Dunbar, sprang to the helm, and with great difficulty succeeded in running her safely
into a Canadian port, where they were obliged to part with every thing in their possession
to obtain the means to return to their families in Sodus, who had given them up as lost. But,
to the great joy of all, they came back at last with their lives, but with nothing for the
famishing slaves. Before another boat could be sent for our relief, we were reduced to the
last extremity. We became so weak we could not work, and it was difficult to drag ourselves
about, as we were now obliged to do, to gather up all the old bones we could find, break them
up fine and then boil them; which made a sort of broth sufficient barely to sustain life. This
we drank, and merely existed, until at last, the long looked for boat returned, loaded with
provision, which saved us from starvation and gave us strength to pursue our labor.

CHAPTER V.

INCIDENTS AT SODUS BAY.

About this time two slaves who were laboring in the forest, instead of returning to their cabin
as was expected, got lost, and wandered eight days in the dense forest without provision, except
what they could procure from roots and the bark of trees. Great exertion was made to find them;
guns were fired, horns blown, and shouts raised, but all to no purpose. Finally, we gave them
up, supposing they had starved to death or had been killed by wild beasts. One of them was
an elderly man, named Benjamin Bristol, and the other, Edmund Watkins, a lad of about eighteen
years of age. They wandered in an easterly direction, a distance of some sixty or seventy miles,
through an unbroken wilderness, vainly trying to find their way home. On the eighth day, to
their inexpressible joy, they came out on the shore of Lake Ontario, near Oswego; but young
Watkins was so completely exhausted that he declared himself incapable of further exertion,
and begged to be left to his fate. Bristol, however, who chewed tobacco, which it was supposed
kept him from sinking so low as his companion, took him on his back, and carried him home,
which they reached in a famished state and reduced to skeletons. All were thankful for the
preservation of their lives, and, with the best we could do for them, they soon recruited and
became strong as ever.

One day, two others and myself thought we saw some animal swimming across the bay. We got a
boat and went out to see what it was. After rowing for some time we came near enough to perceive
it was a large bear. Those who watched us from the shore expected to see our boat upset, and
all on board drowned, but it was not so to be; the, bear was struck on the nose with a blow
that killed him instantly, and he was hauled ashore in great triumph.

While these things were transpiring on the east side of the bay, the overseer on the west side
determined to punish one of the slaves who worked on the east side. The name of the slave was
Williams; a strong, athletic man, and generally a good workman, but he had unfortunately offended
the overseer, for which nothing could appease his wrath but the privilege of flogging him.
The slave, however, thought as he was no longer in Virginia, he would not submit to such chastisement,
and the overseer was obliged to content himself with threatening what he would do if he caught
him on the west side of the bay.

A short time after, the overseer called at the cabin of one of the slaves, and was not a little
surprised to find there the refractory slave, Williams, in company with three other men. He
immediately walked up to him and asked him some question, to which Williams made no reply.
Attended, as he always was, by his ferocious bull-dog, he flourished his cowhide in great wrath
and demanded an instant reply, but he received none, whereupon he struck the slave a blow with
the cowhide. Instantly Williams sprang and caught him by the throat and held him writhing in
his vise-like grasp, until he succeeded in getting possession of the cowhide, with which he
gave the overseer such a flogging as slaves seldom get. Williams was seized at once by the
dog who endeavored to defend his brutal master, but the other slaves came to the rescue, and
threw the dog into a huge fire which was near by, from which, after a singeing, he ran off,
howling worse than his master when in the hands of Williams. He foamed and swore and still
the blows descended; then he commanded the slaves to assist him, but as none obeyed, he commenced
begging in the most humble manner, and at last entreated them as "gentlemen" to spare him;
but all to no purpose. When Williams thought he had thrashed him sufficiently, he let him go
and hurried to his boat and rowed down the bay, instead of crossing it. The overseer no sooner
found himself at liberty than he ran out, calling to a servant girl to bring his rifle, which
was loaded. The rifle was brought, but before he could get to the bay, Williams had gone beyond
his reach; but unfortunately another boat was at this moment crossing the bay, which he, mad
with rage, fired into. The men in the boat immediately cried out to him not to repeat the shot,
but he was so angry that he swore he would shoot somebody, and sent another bullet after them.
No one was hurt, however, but the brave overseer was vanquished. Crest-fallen and unrevenged,
he shortly after called on Capt. Helm for a settlement, which was granted, and bidding a final
adieu to the "Genesee Country," he departed for Virginia, where he could beat slaves without
himself receiving a cow-hiding. No one regretted his absence, nor do I think any but the most
heartless would cordially welcome his return to the land of Slavery.

CHAPTER VI.

REMOVAL FROM SODUS TO BATH.

Capt. Helm went to Virginia for his family, and returning with them, concluded to locate his
future residence in the village of Bath, Steuben County. He purchased a large tract of land
near the village, a large grist mill, and two saw mills; also, two farms; one called the "Maringo,"
east of the village; and the other, called "Epsam," north of it; and a fine house and lot in
the village. He also kept a distillery, which in those days was well patronized, for nearly
every body drank whisky; and with Capt. Helm it was a favorite beverage.

The slaves were removed to Bath, where our master was well suited, and was everywhere noted
for his hospitality. He had a great deal of land to cultivate, and carried on a multiplicity
of business.

Soon after we were settled at Bath, Capt. Helm's eldest daughter, Jenny, was married to Mr.
John Fitzhugh, her cousin, who had come from Virginia to claim his bride.

The wedding was a splendid affair. No pains were spared to make it more imposing than any thing
that had ever happened in that country. Never before had the quiet village of Bath seen such
splendor. All that wealth, power and ambition could do, was done to make the event one of great
brilliancy. Europe contributed her full proportion; Turkey, the Indias, East and West, were
heavily taxed to produce their finest fabrics to adorn the bride and bridal guests; and contribute
delicacies to add elegance to the festal scene. Two days previous to the wedding, the invited
guests began to arrive with their retinue of servants, and on the evening of the marriage the
large mansion was thrown open, and there was the most magnificent assemblage I ever beheld.
In the drawing-room, where the ceremony took place, every thing was surpassingly elegant. Costly
chandeliers shed their light on the rich tapestry, and beautiful dresses glittering with diamonds,
and the large mirrors everywhere reflecting the gay concourse. While the servants were preparing
supper it was announced that the hour had arrived for the ceremony to commence. The bridal
pair took their place in the center of the apartment. Pearls, diamonds, and jewelry glittered
on the bride with such luster, that it was almost painful to the eye to look upon her.

The minister, after asking God to bless the assembled guests, and those he was about to unite
in the holy bonds of wedlock, proceeded in a very solemn and impressive manner with the marriage
service. The ceremony concluded, and good wishes having been expressed over the sparkling wine,
the man of God took his leave, two hundred dollars richer than when he came. The company were
all very happy, or appeared so; mirth reigned supreme, and every countenance wore a smile.
They were seated at tables loaded with luxuries of every description, and while partaking,
a band of music enlivened the scene.

All business was suspended for several days, the wedding party making a tour of ten days to
Niagara Falls. After a while, however, affairs assumed their usual aspect, and business took
its regular routine.

The grist mill belonging to the Captain was the only one for many miles around, and was a source
of great profit to him; the saw mills also, were turning out a large quantity of lumber, which
was in good demand; and the distillery kept up a steaming business. It yielded, however, a
handsome income to Capt. Helm, who was now, for the first time since I knew him, overseeing
his affairs himself, dispensing altogether with the service of a regularly installed overseer.

The oldest son of our master had been absent from home for sometime, nor did he return to attend
his sister's grand wedding. He had sought and obtained a commission in the United States service
as a Lieutenant. This had been his own choice; he had preferred the service and hardships of
a soldier, to a plantation well stocked with slaves, and the quietude of domestic life. He
had cheerfully given up his friends and prospects as a planter, and entered the service of
his country. Frank Helm, the second son, soon followed the example of his older brother, Lina.
He obtained a like commission, but he did not, like his brother, get along quietly. His prospects
as an officer were soon blighted, and all hope of being serviceable to his country vanished
forever.

CHAPTER VII.

DUELING.

Lina Helm was an easy, good-natured, clever fellow; but his brother Frank was his opposite
in nearly every thing; proud, fractious and unyielding. As might be expected, Frank, soon after
entering the army, got into an "affair of honor," according to the duelist's code of laws.
He was not, however, the principal in the difficulty. One of his friends and a brother officer,
had a quarrel with a gentleman whom he challenged to mortal combat. Frank was the bearer of
his friend's challenge, and on presenting it, the gentleman refused to accept it, saying that
the challenger "was no gentleman." Then, according to the rules of dueling, no alternative
was left for Frank, but to take his brother officer's place, and fight. This he did and came
from the bloody field disabled for life. In consequence of his lameness, he was under the necessity
of resigning his commission in the army, which he did, and came home a cripple, and nearly
unfitted for any kind of business whatever.

While on the subject of dueling, permit me to record some of the incidents of another "affair
of honor," which occurred in the District of Columbia, between Gen. Mason and Mr. M'Carter,
two antagonistic politicians.

M'Carter offered his vote to the inspectors, and Mason challenged it. M'Carter offered to swear
it in, when Mason said if he did so he would perjure himself. This blew what appeared to be
but a spark into an angry blaze, and a duel was momentarily expected; but their warlike propensities
subsided into a newspaper combat, which was kept up for several weeks, each party supposing
they had the advantage of their adversary. In this stage of the quarrel, Gen. Jackson, with
one of his aid-de-camps, Dr. Bruno, visited Washington. Dr. Bruno was a friend of Gen. Mason's,
and to him the General submitted the correspondence, desiring his opinion relative to the advantage
one had obtained over the other. Dr. Bruno decided against his friend, which probably exasperated
him still more, and the General expressed his determination to fight his antagonist. Dr. Bruno
wrote to M'Carter to come to Washington, and he came immediately, and was as readily waited
upon by the Doctor, who inquired if he would receive a communication from his friend, Gen.
Mason. M'Carter replied, that he "would receive no communication from Gen. Mason, except a
challenge to fight." The challenge was therefore sent, and accepted, and the Doctor appointed
to make the necessary arrangements for the duel. He proposed the weapons to be pistols, and
the distance, ten paces; to which M'Carter objected, because he said, "the General was a dead
shot with the pistol, while he hardly knew how to use one." Then it was left to M'Carter to
choose the mode of warfare. He proposed muskets and ten paces distance. This was agreed upon,
and finally the morning arrived for the conflict, and people began to assemble in great numbers
to witness this murderous scene.

The belligerent parties unflinchingly took their place, each with his loaded musket at his
shoulder, and gazing in each other's face, with feelings of the most bitter hatred, while their
eyes flashed vengeance.

Oh! what a state of mind was this in which to meet inevitable death? How could intelligent
men, or gentlemen, if you please so to term them, look placidly on such a horrid scene? Was
there no heart of humanity to interfere and arrest the murderous designs of these madmen? Alas,
no! The slaveholder's "code of honor" must be acknowledged, though it outrage the laws of God
and his country.

Dr. Bruno asks, "Gentlemen, are you ready?" and the duelists take their deadly aim at each
other. The signal to fire is given, and both weapons are discharged, and when the smoke had
cleared away, what a spectacle was there presented to the duelist and spectator? Gen. Mason,
a husband, a father, a statesman, and a kind friend, lies bleeding, and gasping for breath.
He is no more! Who will bear to his loving and unsuspecting wife, the sad intelligence of her
sudden bereavement? Who will convey his lifeless body to his late residence, and throw grief
and consternation into the bosom of his family, and drape in sadness his whole household? And
yet this painful task must be performed. The family of General Mason remained entirely ignorant
of what was transpiring regarding the duel, until his mangled corpse was brought into his dwelling,
from which he had so recently gone forth in all the vigor of life and manhood. And here let
us drop the curtain, nor intrude on that scene of domestic affliction around the deserted hearth-stone
of the bereaved family of General Mason.

But where is Mr. M'Carter, the more fortunate party in the duel? Hurrying away from the frightful
scene, his hands dripping with the blood of his fellow-man, he skulks about, until an opportunity
is given him to step on board a vessel bound to a foreign port; he leaves home, friends and
country, in the vain hope of finding peace of mind, and ridding himself of that guilt and censure
which must attach itself to a crime so heinous as that of taking the life of another. I can
but regard the inhuman practice of dueling as the legitimate fruit of Slavery.

Men who have been raised in the Slave States, where, if the laws do not give them the power,
they do not restrain them from cruelly punishing every offender with personal violence, even
unto death, if their insulted dignity seems to demand it. It is, however, encouraging to know
that for a few years past the practice of dueling has somewhat fallen into disrepute among
the more humane and candid class of community.

CHAPTER VIII.

HORSE-RACING AND GENERAL TRAINING.

After the return of the wedding party, Mr. Fitzhugh purchased a tract of land near that of
Capt. Helm, on which the newly-married couple commenced keeping house. They, however, became
dissatisfied with their location, and soon after sold their possessions and returned to the South.

Capt. Helm still continued to take the oversight of his slaves, and was out every day, superintending
his business, just as his overseer used to do.

About this time a man named Henry Tower came to Bath to hire "slave boys," as we were called.
The Captain hired to him Simon and myself, and a Mr. Baker also hired to him one slave named
Vol. McKenzie. We three started for Dresden, Ontario County, where we arrived in due time.

Mr. Tower had just bought a tract of land, three miles this side of the village of Lyons, on
the Canandaigua outlet. Here Mr. Tower contemplated making great improvements, building mills,
opening stores &c. This tract of land was comparatively wild, there being but a small frame
house for a dwelling, one for a store, and another for a blacksmith shop. Mr. Tower had two
brothers; James, the eldest, who took charge of the store, and John, the younger, who took
charge of the hands who worked on the farm; Henry himself superintending the building of the
mills. This firm had a great number of men in their employ that year. I was kept busy helping
the women about the cooking and house-work. And here, for the first time in my life, I had
a comfortable bed to sleep on, and plenty of wholesome food to eat; which was something both
new and strange to me.

The Towers were thorough-going business-men; they built a large grist mill, with four run of
stone, and also a distillery. In those days it was customary for nearly all classes to drink
spirituous liquors; hence, the distilleries were sources of great pecuniary interest to those
who owned them. But having lived to see the dreadful evils which the drinking of alcoholic
beverages have produced on community, I can hardly speak of distilleries in the favorable light
in which they were then regarded.

The Towers, with commendable enterprise, cleared a great number of acres of land during the
first year I lived with them, besides doing a heavy business in the mill, store and distillery.

It was customary then for men to assemble at some public place for the purpose of drinking
whisky and racing horses.

One Saturday afternoon there was to be a race, and all was excitement. Being young, I wished
to go with the rest. I hurried through my work as fast as possible, and then, with a trembling
heart, set off in search of my master, fearing lest he would refuse me the simple request.
But he happened to be in uncommon good humor, and readily gave his consent; and away I went,
"as happy as a lark." When I reached the race-ground, they were just preparing to run the horses.
Seeing me, they knew me to be a poor friendless little slave boy, helpless and unprotected,
and they could therefore do with me as they pleased, and have some fine sport at my expense.

When I was asked to ride one of the fast horses, I felt proud of the honor conferred, and was
assisted to mount, feeling highly elated with the lofty position I had gained.

The word "go," was shouted, and the horse whirled off, and it seemed to me as if he flew with
the speed of lightning. My hat fell off the first thing; and there I was, clinging with might
and main to the neck of the fiery animal, my head bare, my feet bootless, and my old stripped
shirt blown from my back, and streaming out behind, and fluttering like a banner in the breeze;
my ragged pants off at the knees, and my long legs dangling down some length below; and at
the same time crying "Whoa! whoa!" as loud as I could. Nor was this all; frightened as I was,
nearly to death, I cast a despairing look behind me, and the loud, derisive laugh of the bystanders
rung in my ears.

Ludicrous as I must have appeared, this was too much,--I felt a giddiness coming over me, my
brain reeled, my hold relaxed, and the next instant I had fallen to the ground, where all consciousness
left me. When I came to my senses I was lying in bed, surrounded by all the appurtenances of
a dying person.

The first thing I heard was Mr. Tower scolding the men who put me on the horse, and threatening
them with a law-suit for presuming to do such a thing without his permission. Mr. Tower considered
himself holden to Capt. Helm for my safe return, and was therefore justly indignant at their
placing my life in such peril. It was indeed a narrow escape, for the horse was running with
all his speed when I fell. My bones were unbroken, however, and I suppose it must have been
the tremendous jar I got when I fell that rendered me unconscious; nor do I think it impossible
that the fright may not have contributed somewhat to the catastrophe.

It was while I was living with that gentleman that the greatest "general training" ever known
in Western New York, came off at "Oak's Corners," in the town of Phelps. It really seemed to
me that the whole world were going to the training, and I, of course, felt a great curiosity
to go where "all creation" appeared to be going. Mr. Tower permitted me to go, and I started
off in high spirits. When I arrived within two or three miles of the place the road was almost
blocked up with people, and when I got to Oak's Corners the crowd beggared all description;
carriages of all sorts were there, containing eatables of all kinds, and tents of all dimensions
were on the road-side, for the houses could not begin to accommodate the people. The entire
brigade was to meet at that place, and Gov. Lewis was expected to review the different companies,
and all were anxious to see the Governor, for, in those days, it was a rare thing to see so
high a dignitary in Western New York; the eastern portion of the State having had every thing
of that kind their own way.

Nor was the means and mode of traveling brought to such perfection as now. The roads were new
and rough, and our best public conveyances only the slow lumbering stage-coach; yet, notwithstanding
these inconveniences, there was an innumerable crowd gathered at that place. I spent the day
in walking about the encampment, and seeing what was to be seen, for it was all new to me.

Officers were riding over the ground, dressed in uniform, and mounted on their splendid steeds:
their plumes waving over their cocked-hats in true military array. A band of music, as is usual,
accompanied the soldiers. There was also a "sham-fight," before the breaking up of the encampment,
and it was really terrifying to me, who had never seen a battle fought, to witness two columns
of troops drawn up, and, at the roll of the drum, behold them engage in deadly conflict, to
all appearance, and the smoke curling up in a blackened mass toward heaven; and, above all,
the neighing of horses, with the feigned groans of the wounded and dying. I inwardly prayed
to God that those men might ever draw their weapons in a feigned encounter.

The first night I spent at the encampment was one long to be remembered; it was like the confusion
of Babel. Of all the hideous noises I ever heard none could exceed those made there that night.
They fired guns, quarreled, drank, and swore, till day light. There was such a crowd at the
tavern that I did not suppose I could get a bed, so I threw myself down upon a door-step, and
began to compose myself to sleep, when a man came and wakened me, inquiring at the same time
whose boy I was. I replied that I lived with Mr. Tower. "Follow me," said he; I arose and followed
him into the house, where he procured for me a bed, to be shared with another "boy," who had
already occupied it.

I had just began to doze, when the explosion of firearms startled all in the house. The keeper
of the tavern ran up stairs in great alarm, and when an examination was made, we found that
a drunken fellow had discharged his musket in the room below the one where we were sleeping,
and that the ball had passed up through the second floor and completely through the bed on
which I slept, to the roof, where, having passed through that also, rolled from thence to the
ground! And yet, strange as it may appear, no one was injured, though the house was filled
to overflowing with guests.

There were groups of disorderly and drunken men continually roaming over the camp-ground at
night, who seemed to have no other object than to annoy others, and torment any one they might
find sleeping, by shaking them, or, if soundly asleep, dragging them out of their beds by their
feet. Among these thus annoyed by them was a physician from Canandaigua. Being a passionate
man, they seemed to think it fine sport to arouse him from sleep and hear him scold. The first
time they dragged him from his tent he merely remonstrated in a very gentlemanly manner, and
quietly crept back again. The rowdies were disappointed; they had expected a "scene." As soon
as he was asleep they attacked him again, dragging him out by the heels; then he was angry,
and told them if they repeated the offence it would be at the peril of their lives, and a third
time retired to his tent; but a third party soon came, and one, more bold than the rest, entered
the tent and laid hold of the Doctor. He sprang to his feet and drew his sword, which he ran
through the body of a man supposed to be that of his tormentor; but oh! what sorrow and consternation
possessed him when he found he had taken the life of a quiet, unoffending person who happened
to be standing by, attracted to the spot probably by the noise of the revelers. The unhappy
Doctor was obliged to flee from his country for a time, but after a while the shadows which
had so suddenly fallen on his fair prospects were cleared away, and he returned to his home
and country.

The second day of the encampment was one of surpassing beauty. The sun shone in all its softened
radiance on that vast concourse of human beings. The field presented a spectacle which must
have been imposing to those of more experienced vision than mine; but to me, in my ignorant
simplicity, it was superbly grand; fascinating beyond my power of resistance, and made an impression
on my mind never to be effaced.

The brigade was drawn up in a line, each colonel stationed just so many paces in front of the
line, and all the other officers, such as majors, quarter-masters, &c., were stationed at an
equal distance in the rear. When all were paraded, the Governor of the State made his appearance,
dressed in full uniform, his hat being one of the Bonaparte style, attended by his aid-de-camp,
who was dressed much in the same manner as his Excellency Governor Lewis, who, after the salute,
took his place at the head of the brigade, and the military exercises commenced. When the Governor
issued his orders, they were first given to his aid, who passed them to the officers, and they
gave the word of command to the soldiers; for instance if the Governor wished the brigade to
"shoulder arms,"--the order went to the officer who commanded the first regiment, and he repeated
the order, and was obeyed; then the same order passed to the next, and so on, until the whole
brigade had complied with the order of his Excellency.

But this, I believe, was the first and last time that the military were ever called out on
so large a scale, in the State of New York. It was supposed that the effect would be decidedly
injurious to a community and the idea was abandoned. Young men were so liable to be fascinated
by the magnificent spectacle, that not the rabble only were attracted by the "trappings of
war," but they have a tendency to induce young, and old men even, of fair prospects, to neglect
their agricultural interests for military pursuits, which, in a new country, were certainly
of paramount importance, if not the greater of the two.

I know that it became very hard for me to content myself to labor as I had done, after witnessing
this grand display. I was completely intoxicated with a military spirit, and sighed for the
liberty to go out "on the lines" and fight the British.

The martial music, the waving plumes, and magnificent uniform, had driven from my mind entirely
the bloodshed and carnage of the battle field; beside, I was sick and tired of being a slave,
and felt ready to do almost any thing to get where I could act and feel like a free man.

I became acquainted with a Mr. McClure, a merchant in Bath, who, while on a journey to Philadelphia,
to purchase goods, was taken suddenly ill and died; when his brother, George McClure, came
on to attend to his diseased brother's business. He was a fine, persevering kind of man, and
very soon got to be General McClure, and commanded the brigade in Steuben County, and, as such,
was liable to be called at any time when his services were required, to go to the frontier
and guard our lines from the invasion of the English army.

To him I applied for a situation as waiter, which he readily agreed to give me if I could get
the consent of Captain Helm. I thought there would be no trouble about that; and oh! how I
dreamed of and anticipated the happiness of being something beside a slave, for a little while
at least. Almost every day I went to the store to talk to Gen. McClure of this greatest happiness
imaginable, "going to the lines!" and was impatient for the chance to arrive that would send
me there.

At last Gen. McClure wrote to Gen. Armstrong, to say that he was ready to obey any order that
he might send him, and march to "the lines," if his services were needed; and, to my inexpressible
joy, marching orders were returned. I nearly flew in search of Capt. Helm, never once suspecting
that he would object; because I knew that he did not then require my services himself, and
the pay would be quite as good as he had been receiving for my time; besides I had so completely
set my heart on going, that it was impossible for me to dream of a disappointment so bitter
as that of being denied going "to the lines."

Oh! how then were my high hopes fallen, and how much more hateful appeared that slavery which
had blighted all my military prospects? Nor was Capt. Helm's heartless and mercenary reply
to my humble pleading any antidote to my disappointed feelings and desire for freedom. He said,
"you shall not go; I will permit nothing of the kind, so let there be an end to it. The pay
is all well enough, I know, but if you get killed your wages will stop; and then who, do you
suppose, will indemnify me for the loss? Go about your business, and let me hear no more of
such nonsense!"

There was an emergency I had not provided for; and, as I then believed, the master could make
no demand on or for the slaves beyond the grave, I was silent; but both master and myself were
mistaken on that point; for I have since learned numerous instances where slaves have fought
and died in the service of their master's country, and the slave-owner received his wages up
to the hour of his death, and then recovered of the United States the full value of his person
as property!

Gen. McClure left soon after for the frontier; my saddened heart followed him, and that was
all; my body was in slavery still, and painful though it was, I must quietly submit.

The General, however, reaped but few if any laurels in that campaign; he burned the small village
of Newark, in Canada, for which he got very little credit on either side of the lake; so I
comforted myself as well as I could with the reflection, that all who "went to the wars" did
not return covered with glory and laurels of victory.

I continued to live with the Towers; and in the fall of that year, I had the misfortune to
cut my foot badly. While chopping fire wood at the door, I accidentally struck my ax against
a post, which glanced the blow in such a manner that it came down with sufficient force to
nearly sever my great toe from my left foot, gashing upward completely through the large joint,
which made a terrible wound. Dr. Taylor was immediately called, and sewed the flesh together,
taking two stitches on the upper, and one on the under, side of the foot, before it began to
swell; but when the swelling came on, the stitches on the upper side gave way, which occasioned
the toe to fall over so much, that I have been slightly lame from that day to this. For several
weeks I was unable to be moved, and was regularly attended by Dr. Taylor, but as soon as it
could be done without danger, I was taken back to Capt. Helm's, where I found things in much
the same condition as when I left them over a year before.

On leaving the family of Mr. Tower, I endeavored to express to them as well in my power the
gratitude I felt for their kindness, and the attention I had received during my lameness.

We returned to Bath in a sleigh, and arrived without accident or any great suffering. But the
kind treatment I had always received from the Messrs. Tower and family, made it very hard for
me to reconcile myself to my former mode of living; especially now that I was lame and weak,
from sickness and long confinement; besides, it was cold weather. Oh! how hard it did seem
to me, after having a good bed and plenty of bed clothes every night for so long time, to now
throw myself down, like a dog, on the "softest side" of a rough board, without a pillow, and
without a particle of bedding to cover me during the long cold nights of winter. To be reduced
from a plentiful supply of good, wholesome food, to the mere pittance which the Captain allowed
his slaves, seemed to me beyond endurance.

And yet I had always lived and fared thus, but I never felt so bitterly these hardships and
the cruelties of Slavery as I did at that time; making a virtue of necessity, however, I turned
my thoughts in another direction.

I managed to purchase a spelling book, and set about teaching myself to read, as best I could.
Every spare moment I could find was devoted to that employment, and when about my work I could
catch now and then a stolen glance at my book, just to refresh my memory with the simple lesson
I was trying to learn. But here Slavery showed its cloven foot in all its hideous deformity.
It finally reached the ears of my master that I was learning to read; and then, if he saw me
with a book or a paper in my hand, oh, how he would swear at me, sending me off in a hurry,
about some employment. Still I persevered, but was more careful about being seen making any
attempt to learn to read. At last, however, I was discovered, and had to pay the penalty of
my determination.

I had been set to work in the sugar bush, and I took my spelling book with me. When a spare
moment occurred I sat down to study, and so absorbed was I in the attempt to blunder through
my lesson, that I did not hear the Captain's son-in-law coming until he was fairly upon me.
He sprang forward, caught my poor old spelling book, and threw it into the fire, where it was
burned to ashes; and then came my turn. He gave me first a severe flogging, and then swore
if he ever caught me with another book, he would "whip every inch of skin off my back," &c.

This treatment, however, instead of giving me the least idea of giving it up, only made me
look upon it as a more valuable attainment. Else, why should my oppressors feel so unwilling
that their slaves should possess that which they thought so essential to themselves? Even then,
with my back bleeding and smarting from the punishment I had received, I determined to learn
to read and write, at all hazards, if my life was only spared. About this time Capt. Helm began
to sell off his slaves to different persons, as he could find opportunity, and sometimes at
a great sacrifice. It became apparent that the Captain, instead of prospering in business,
was getting poorer every day.

CHAPTER IX.

DEATH BED AND BRIDAL SCENES.

Neither Capt. Helm nor his wife made any religious pretensions. I hardly know whether or not
they were avowed infidels; but they alike ridiculed all religious professions and possessed
some very singular notions regarding life and death.

I have often heard the Captain say, that no person need die unless they choose to do so; and
his wife was of the same belief. I have frequently heard her remark that if mankind would firmly
resist death it would flee from them.

An opportunity, however, was soon after given to test the truth of this strange dogma. Mrs.
Helm's health began to decline, but she would pay no attention to it, following her usual course
and regular routine of household duties; but all in vain; she was taken down, alarmingly ill,
and it became apparent to all, that the "king of terrors" had chosen his victim. She tried
with all her natural energy of character, to baffle his pursuit and escape his steady approach,
but all to no purpose. "The valley and the shadow of death" were before her, and she had no
assurance that the "rod and staff" of the Almighty would sustain and comfort her through the
dark passage. She shrank with perfect horror from the untried scenes of the future.

If any one had ever envied Mrs. Helm in her drawing-room, richly attired and sparkling with
jewels, or as she moved with the stately step of a queen among her trembling slaves, they should
have beheld her on her death bed! They should have listened to her groans and cries for help,
while one piercing shriek after another rang through the princely mansion of which she had
been the absolute mistress!

Surrounded as she was with every elegance and luxury that wealth could procure, she lay shrieking
out her prayers for a short respite, a short lengthening out of the life she had spent so unprofitably;
her eyes wandering restlessly about the apartment, and her hands continually clinching the
air, as if to grasp something that would prevent her from sinking into the embrace of death!
There was not a slave present, who would have exchanged places with her. Not one of those over
whom she had ruled so arbitrarily would have exchanged their rough, lowly cabin and quiet conscience,
for all the wealth and power she had ever possessed.

Nothing of all she had enjoyed in life, nor all that she yet called her own, could give her
one hour of life or one peaceful moment in death!

Oh! what a scene was that! The wind blew, and great drops of rain fell on the casements. The
room lighted only with a single taper; the wretched wife mingles her dying groans with the
howling of the storm, until, as the clock struck the hour of midnight she fell back upon her
pillow and expired, amid the tears and cries of her family and friends, who not only deplored
the loss of a wife and mother, but were grieved by the manner in which she died.

The slaves were all deeply affected by the scene; some doubtless truly lamented the death of
their mistress; others rejoiced that she was no more, and all were more or less frightened.
One of them I remember went to the pump and wet his face, so as to appear to weep with the rest.

What a field was opened for reflection, by the agonizing death of Mrs. Helm? Born and reared
in affluence; well educated and highly accomplished, possessed of every means to become a useful
woman and an ornament to her sex; which she most likely would have been, had she been instructed
in the Christian religion, and had lived under a different influence. As infidelity ever deteriorates
from the female character, so Slavery transforms more than one, otherwise excellent woman,
into a feminine monster. Of Mrs. Helm, with her active intellect and great force of character,
it made a tyrannical demon. Her race, however, is ended; her sun gone down in darkness, and
her soul we must leave in the keeping of a righteous God, to whom we must all give an account
for the deeds done in the body. But in view of the transitory pleasures of this life; the unsatisfactory
realization of wealth, and the certainty of death, we may well inquire, "What shall it profit
a man to gain the whole world and lose his own soul?"

Some little time after the scene just recorded, there came to Bath a young physician named
Henry, who commenced practice under very flattering prospects. He was an accomplished young
man, well educated and very skillful in his profession. He was affable and gay in his manners,
and very fond of company. An intimate acquaintance was soon formed with Capt. Helm and family,
and he called almost daily to chat and drink wine with the Captain,--both being quite fond
of a social glass.

One night in the depth of winter, the Doctor was called to see a patient who lived six miles
down the Conhocton river. Previous, however, to the call, he had accepted an invitation to
attend a party at Capt. Helm's, and there he was found. They had music and dancing, while the
wine passed around very freely. None seemed to join in the dance and other amusements of the
evening with more enjoyment than did Dr. Henry; but after he was sent for, it being a most
bitter cold night, he asked the Captain for a horse to ride to see his patient, to which he
readily assented, and had his fine race-horse (for the Captain had not left off all his old
habits), brought out from the stable, and the Doctor sprang lightly into the saddle. Unfortunately
his way led by the race-course, and when the trained animal came to it he started with such
speed as to throw the Doctor to the ground, where he lay all that terrible cold night. In the
morning, some person going after wood, came in sight of the Doctor as he was trying to creep
away on his frozen hands and feet. He was put into the sleigh and taken to the village with
all possible speed. All was done for him that could be, but his feet and legs were frozen solid.
His uncle, Dr. Henry, was brought as soon as possible, who decided that nothing could save
his life but the amputation of both legs, just below the knee. This was done; but what a change
in the prospects of this promising young man! Instead of stepping lightly about as he used
to do, with a smiling countenance, he at last came forth after a tedious confinement, a cripple
for life, hobbling about on his knees, sad and dejected. And what, think you, was the cause
of this terrible calamity? What prevented the Doctor from an exertion to save his life? Wine,
intoxicating wine, was undoubtedly the occasion of the heedless and reckless conduct of both
himself and Capt. Helm. And should not this circumstance be a warning to parents and guardians,
to young men and children, "to look not upon the wine when it is red," and remember that at
last "it will bite like a serpent and sting like an adder?" Should it not also remind those
who have guests to entertain, of the sinfulness of putting the cup to their neighbor's lips?
Certainly it should. But I must resume my story.

About this time Major Thornton of Bath, died. He had long been an intimate friend and acquaintance
of Capt. Helm, and as the reader is already informed of the death of Mrs. Helm, they will not
be surprised to know that he began to look earnestly after the widow of his late friend. It
become apparent that his solicitude for the loneliness of Madam Thornton was not so much as
a disconsolate widow, as that of making her the future Mrs. Helm; nor was it less observable
that the new-made widow accepted the Captain's attentions with great favor, and more as a lover
than a comforter.

The result was, after the Major had been dead six weeks, Capt. Helm was married to his widow,
and brought her and her servants in great triumph to his house, giving her the charge of it.
His own servants were discharged, and hers took their places.

All went on pleasantly for a while; then the slaves began to grow sullen and discontented;
and two of them ran away. Capt. Helm started a man named Morrison, a Scotchman, in pursuit,
who hunted them ten days, and then returned without any tidings of the absconding slaves. They
made good their escape and were never heard from afterwards, by those whose interest suffered
by the loss.

I was one afternoon at a neighbor's house in the village, when I was suddenly taken so violently
ill with pain in my head and side, that I had to be carried home. When we arrived there, I
was allowed a pallet of straw to lie on, which was better than nothing. Day after day, my disease
increased in violence, and my master employed a physician to attend me through my illness,
which brought me very low indeed. I was constantly burning with fever, and so thirsty that
I knew not what I would have given for a draught of cold water, which was denied me by the
physician's direction. I daily grew weaker until I was reduced to helplessness, and was little
else than "skin and bones." I really thought my time had come to die; and when I had strength
to talk, I tried to arrange the few little business affairs I had, and give my father direction
concerning them. And then I began to examine my own condition before God, and to determine
how the case stood between Him and my poor soul. And "there was the rub." I had often excused
myself, for frequent derelictions in duty, and often wild and passionate outbreaks, on account
of the hardness of my lot, and the injustice with which I was treated, even in my best endeavors
to do as well as I knew how. But now, with death staring me in the face, I could see that though
I was a friendless "slave-boy," I had not always done as well as I knew how; that I had not
served God as I knew I ought, nor had I always set a good example before my fellow-slaves,
nor warned them as well as I might, "to flee the wrath to come." Then I prayed my Heavenly
Father to spare me a little longer, that I might serve Him better; and in His mercy and gracious
goodness, He did so; though when the fever was turning they gave me up; and I could hear them
say, when they came to feel my pulse, "he is almost gone," "it will soon be over," &c., and
then inquire if I knew them. I did, but was too weak to say so. I recollect with gratitude,
the kindness of Mrs. H.A. Townsend, who sent me many delicacies and cooling drinks to soften
the rigor of my disease; and though I suppose she has long since "passed away" and gone to
her reward, may the blessing of those who are ready to perish, rest upon the descendants of
that excellent woman.

Capt. Helm was driving on in his milling, distillery and farming business. He now began to
see the necessity of treating his slaves better by far than he had ever done before, and granted
them greater privileges than he would have dared to do at the South. Many of the slaves he
had sold, were getting their liberty and doing well.

CHAPTER X.

HIRED OUT TO A NEW MASTER.

While I was staying with my master at Bath, he having little necessity for my services, hired
me out to a man by the name of Joseph Robinson, for the purpose of learning me to drive a team.
Robinson lived about three miles from the village of Bath, on a small farm, and was not only
a poor man but a very mean one. He was cross and heartless in his family, as well as tyrannical
and cruel to those in his employ; and having hired me as a "slave boy," he appeared to feel
at full liberty to wreak his brutal passion on me at any time, whether I deserved rebuke or
not; nor did his terrible outbreaks of anger vent themselves in oaths, curses and threatenings
only, but he would frequently draw from the cart-tongue a heavy iron pin, and beat me over
the head with it, so unmercifully that he frequently sent the blood flowing over my scanty
apparel, and from that to the ground, before he could feel satisfied.

These kind of beatings were not only excessively painful, but they always reminded me of the
blows I had so often received from the key, in the hand of Mrs. Helm, when I was but a little
waiter lad; and in truth I must say that the effect of these heavy blows on the head, have
followed me thus far through life; subjecting me to frequent and violent head-aches, from which
I never expect to be entirely free. Even to this day I shudder at the thought, when I think
how Robinson used to fly at me, swearing, foaming, and seeming to think there was no weapon
too large or too heavy to strike me with.

He and I were at one time logging with a yoke of oxen, which it was my business to drive. At
that time rattle-snakes were numerous, and a great terror to the inhabitants. To be bitten
by one of these poisonous reptiles was certain and almost instant death; hence, the greatest
caution and constant vigilance was necessary to avoid them while at work. I had been sent with
the oxen to draw a log to the pile, and when I came up to it, I observed that it appeared to
be hollow; but stepping forward, with the chain in my hand, ready to attach it to the log,
when, oh, horror! the warning rattle of a snake sounded like a death knell in my ears, proceeding
from the log I was about to lay hold of. I was so much frightened by the sound, that I dropped
the chain as though it were red hot, left my team, and ran with all the speed in my power,
screaming "murder, murder!" as loud as I could.

This proceeding, which was the fearful impulse of the moment, offended Robinson, and gave him
another opportunity to beat me most cruelly. He was himself as much afraid of rattle-snakes
as I; but he was the master and I the "slave boy," which made a vast difference. He caught
hold of me, and, with horrid oaths, beat me with his fist again and again; threatening me with
awful punishment if I did not instantly return and bring the log to the desired spot. I never
can forget the mortal agony I was in, while compelled by his kicks and blows to return and
fasten the chain around the log containing the deadly serpent. I, however, succeeded with trembling
hands, and drove the oxen, but keeping myself at the fartherest possible distance from them
and the log. When I finally arrived at the pile, Mr. Robinson and some other men, cut a hole
with an ax in the log, and killed the large, venomous rattle-snake that had occasioned me so
much alarm and such a cruel beating. Nor was the uncontrollable and brutal passion of Robinson
his only deficiency; he was mean as he was brutal.

He had, at one time, borrowed a wagon of a neighbor living two miles distant, through a dense
forest. On the day of the total eclipse of the sun, it entered his head that it would be fine
sport, knowing my my ignorance and superstition, to send me, just as the darkness was coming
on, to return the borrowed wagon. I accordingly hitched the ox-team to it and started. As I
proceeded through the wood, I saw, with astonishment and some alarm, that it was growing very
dark, and thought it singular at that hour of the day. When I reached the place of my destination
it was almost total darkness, and some persons, ignorant as myself, were running about, wringing
their hands, and declaring that they believed the Day of Judgment had come, and such like expressions.

The effect of all this was, however, very different from what my master had expected. I thought,
of course, if the judgment day had come, I should be no longer a slave in the power of a heartless
tyrant. I recollect well of thinking, that if indeed all things earthly were coming to an end,
I should be free from Robinson's brutal force, and as to meeting my Creator, I felt far less
dread of that than of meeting my cross, unmerciful master. I felt that, sinful as I had been,
and unworthy as I was, I should be far better off than I then was; driven to labor all day,
without compensation; half starved and poorly clad, and above all, subjected to the whims and
caprices of any heartless tyrant to whom my master might give the power to rule over me. But
I had not much time for reflection, I hurried home; my mind filled with the calm anticipation
that the end of all things was at hand; which greatly disappointed my expectant master, who
was looking for me to return in a great fright, making some very ludicrous demonstration of
fear and alarm. But after a few months more of hardship I was permitted to return to Capt.
Helm's, where I was treated much better than at Robinson's, and much, better than the Captain
used to treat his slaves.

Capt. Helm, not having demand for slave labor as much as formerly, was in the practice of hiring
out his slaves to different persons, both in and out of the village; and among others, my only
sister was hired out to a professed gentleman living in Bath. She had become the mother of
two or three children, and was considered a good servant.

One pleasant Sabbath morning, as I was passing the house where she lived, on my way to the
Presbyterian church, where I was sent to ring the bell as usual, I heard the most piteous cries
and earnest pleadings issuing from the dwelling. To my horror and the astonishment of those
with me, my poor sister made her appearance, weeping bitterly, and followed by her inhuman
master, who was polluting the air of that clear Sabbath morning, with the most horrid imprecations
and threatenings, and at the same time flourishing a large raw-hide. Very soon his bottled
wrath burst forth, and the blows, aimed with all his strength, descended upon the unprotected
head, shoulders and back of the helpless woman, until she was literally cut to pieces. She
writhed in his powerful grasp, while shriek after shriek died away in heart-rending moanings;
and yet the inhuman demon continued to beat her, though her pleading cries had ceased, until
obliged to desist from the exhaustion of his own strength.

What a spectacle was that, for the sight of a brother? The God of heaven only knows the conflict
of feeling I then endured; He alone witnessed the tumult of my heart, at this outrage of manhood
and kindred affection. God knows that my will was good enough to have wrung his neck; or to
have drained from his heartless system its last drop of blood! And yet I was obliged to turn
a deaf ear to her cries for assistance, which to this day ring in my ears. Strong and athletic
as I was, no hand of mine could be raised in her defence, but at the peril of both our lives;--nor
could her husband, had he been a witness of the scene, be allowed any thing more than unresisting
submission to any cruelty, any indignity which the master saw fit to inflict on his wife, but
the other's slave.

Does any indignant reader feel that I was wanting in courage or brotherly affection, and say
that he would have interfered, and, at all hazards, rescued his sister from the power of her
master; let him remember that he is a freeman; that he has not from his infancy been taught
to cower beneath the white man's frown, and bow at his bidding, or suffer all the rigor of
the slave laws. Had the gentlemanly woman-whipper been seen beating his horse, or his ox, in
the manner he beat my poor sister, and that too for no fault which the law could recognize
as an offence, he would have been complained of most likely; but as it was, she was but a "slave
girl,"--with whom the slave law allowed her master to do what he pleased.

Well, I finally passed on, with a clinched fist and contracted brow, to the church, and rung
the bell, I think rather furiously, to notify the inhabitants of Bath, that it was time to
assemble for the worship of that God who has declared himself to be "no respecter of persons."
With my own heart beating wildly with indignation and sorrow, the kind reader may imagine my
feelings when I saw the smooth-faced hypocrite, the inhuman slave-whipper, enter the church,
pass quietly on to his accustomed seat, and then meekly bow his hypocritical face on the damask
cushion, in the reverent acknowledgment of that religion which teaches its adherents "to do
unto others as they would be done by," just as if nothing unusual had happened on that Sabbath
morning. Can any one wonder that I, and other slaves, often doubted the sincerity of every
white man's religion? Can it be a matter of astonishment, that slaves often feel that there
is no just God for the poor African? Nay, verily; and were it not for the comforting and sustaining
influence that these poor, illiterate and suffering creatures feel as coming from an unearthly
source, they would in their ignorance all become infidels. To me, that beautiful Sabbath morning
was clouded in midnight darkness, and I retired to ponder on what could be done.

For some reason or other, Capt. Helm had supplied every lawyer in that section of country with
slaves, either by purchase or hire; so when I thought of seeking legal redress for my poor,
mangled sister, I saw at once it would be all in vain. The laws were in favor of the slave
owner, and besides, every legal gentleman in the village had one or more of the Captain's slaves,
who were treated with more or less rigor; and of course they would do nothing toward censuring
one of their own number, so nothing could be done to give the slave even the few privileges
which the laws of the State allowed them.

The Captain sold my aunt Betsy Bristol to a distinguished lawyer in the village, retaining
her husband, Aaron Bristol, in his own employ; and two of her children he sold to another legal
gentleman named Cruger. One day Captain Helm came out where the slaves were at work, and finding
Aaron was not there, he fell into a great rage and swore terribly. He finally started off to
a beach tree, from which he cut a stout limb, and trimmed it so as to leave a knot on the but
end of the stick, or bludgeon rather, which was about two and a half feet in length. With this
formidable weapon he started for Aaron's lonely cabin. When the solitary husband saw him coming
he suspected that he was angry, and went forth to meet him in the street. They had no sooner
met than my master seized Aaron by the collar, and taking the limb he had prepared by the smaller
end, commenced beating him with it, over the head and face, and struck him some thirty or more
terrible blows in quick succession; after which Aaron begged to know for what he was so unmercifully
flogged.

"Because you deserve it," was the angry reply. Aaron said that he had ever endeavored to discharge
his duty, and had done so to the best of his ability; and that he thought it very hard to be
treated in that manner for no offence at all. Capt. Helm was astonished at his audacity; but
the reader will perceive that the slaves were not blind to the political condition of the country,
and were beginning to feel that they had some rights, and meant to claim them.

Poor Aaron's face and head, however, was left in a pitiable condition after such a pummeling
with a knotty stick. His face, covered with blood, was so swollen that he could hardly see
for some time; but what of that? Did he not belong to Capt. Helm, soul and body; and if his
brutal owner chose to destroy his own property, certainly had he not a right to do so, without
let or hindrance? Of course; such is the power that Slavery gives one human being over another.

And yet it must be confessed that among the poor, degraded and ignorant slaves there exists
a foolish pride, which loves to boast of their master's wealth and influence. A white person,
too poor to own slaves, is as often looked upon with as much disdain by the miserable slave
as by his wealthy owner. This disposition seems to be instilled into the mind of every slave
at the South, and indeed, I have heard slaves object to being sent in very small companies
to labor in the field, lest that some passer-by should think that they belonged to a poor man,
who was unable to keep a large gang. Nor is this ridiculous sentiment maintained by the slaves
only; the rich planter feels such a contempt for all white persons without slaves, that he
does not want them for his neighbors. I know of many instances where such persons have been
under the necessity of buying or hiring slaves, just to preserve their reputation and keep
up appearances; and even among a class of people who profess to be opposed to Slavery, have
I known instances of the same kind, and have heard them apologize for their conduct by saying
that "when in Rome, we must do as the Romans do."

Uncle Aaron Bristol was one of Capt. Helm's slaves who had a large amount of this miserable
pride; and for him to be associated with a white man in the same humble occupation, seemed
to give him ideas of great superiority, and full liberty to treat him with all the scorn and
sarcasm he was capable of, in which my uncle was by no means deficient.

At this time the Captain owned a fine and valuable horse, by the name of Speculator. This horse,
groomed by uncle Aaron, stood sometimes at Bath and sometimes at Geneva; and at the latter
village another horse was kept, groomed by a white man. The white groom was not very well pleased
with Aaron's continual disparagement of the clumsy animal which my uncle called "a great, awkward
plow-horse;" and then he would fling out some of his proud nonsense about "poor white people
who were obliged to groom their own old dumpy horses," &c.

Well, things went on in this unpleasant manner for several weeks, when at last the white groom
and Aaron met at Geneva, and the horse belonging to the former, designedly or accidentally,
escaped from his keeper, and came with full speed, with his mouth wide open, after Speculator.
When the fiery fellow had overtaken uncle Aaron he attempted to grasp the wethers of Speculator
with his teeth, instead of which he caught Aaron on the inside of his thigh, near the groin,
from whence he bit a large piece of flesh, laying the bone entirely bare; at the same moment
flinging Aaron to the ground, some rods off; and the next instant he kicked Speculator down
a steep embankment Aaron was taken up for dead, and Dr. Henry sent for, who dressed his wounds;
and after several months' confinement he finally recovered. It is probable that the biting
and overthrow of Aaron saved his life, as he must have otherwise been killed in the encounter
of the two horses.

A while after his recovery, uncle Aaron succeeded in procuring a team and some kind of vehicle,
in which he put his wife and children, and between two days, took "French leave" of his master
as well as of the lawyer to whom his wife belonged.

The lawyer, however, was far from being pleased when he missed his property, and immediately
set his wits to work to reclaim her. All was kept secret as possible, but it was whispered
about that it was to be done by a State's warrant, for removing the clothing and furniture
they had taken, and so, being thus arrested, "Madam Bristol" would be glad to return to her
work in the lawyer's kitchen. But Aaron was a smart, shrewd man, and kept out of their reach,
where he soon found friends and employment, and could go where he pleased, without having an
infuriated master to beat and disfigure him with a knotted stick, until his clothes were bespattered
with blood. They appreciated their liberty, and lived and died in peace and freedom.

Capt. Helm continued his old manner of treating slaves, dealing out their weekly allowance
of corn or meal; but living as we now did, so much more intimately with white inhabitants,
our condition was materially improved. The slaves became more refined in manners and in possession
of far greater opportunities to provide for themselves, than they had ever before enjoyed,
and yet it was Slavery. Any reverse in the fortunes of our master would be disadvantageous
to us. Oh, how this fearful uncertainty weighed upon us as we saw that our master was not prospering
and increasing in wealth; but we had not the dismal fears of the loathsome slave-pen, rice
swamps, and many other things we should have to fear in Virginia. We were still slaves, and
yet we had so much greater chance to learn from the kind, intelligent people about us, so many
things which we never knew before, that I think a slave-trader would have found it a difficult
task to take any one of us to a Southern slave market, if our master had so ordered it.

The village of Bath is rather an out-of-the-way place, hemmed in on all sides by mountains
of considerable height, leaving an opening on the north, through a pleasant valley, to the
head of Crooked Lake. Produce of every kind, when once there, met a ready sale for the New
York market.

In the first settlement of the country this was the only outlet for the country produce, which
was transported in rude boats or vessels called arks, built during the winter season to await
the spring freshet; then they loaded them with wheat or other produce, and sent them to Baltimore
or elsewhere. They used also to obtain great quantities of fine lumber, and floated it through
the same rivers every spring; but it was attended with great loss of life and property.

Bath assumed a warlike appearance during the last war with Great Britain; the public square
was dotted all over with officers, marquees, and soldiers' tents. Some of these soldiers were
unprincipled and reckless men, who seemed to care very little what they did.

One evening I was walking around the encampment in company with a Mr. James Morrison, a clerk
in the land office, looking at the soldiers, until we came near a sentinel on duty. He kept
his gun to his shoulder until we came near enough, and then he attempted to run me through
with his bayonet. Young Morrison sprang forward, and seizing the musket, told me to run; I
did so, which probably saved my life.

CHAPTER XI.

THOUGHTS ON FREEDOM.

After living sometime in Bath, and having the privilege of more enlightened society, I began
to think that it was possible for me to become a free man in some way besides going into the
army or running away, as I had often thought of doing. I had listened to the conversation of
others, and determined to ask legal counsel on the subject the first opportunity I could find.
Very soon after, as I was drawing wood, I met on the river bridge, Mr. D. Cruger, the eminent
lawyer before mentioned, and I asked him to tell me if I was not free, by the laws of New York.
He started, and looked around him as if afraid to answer my question, but after a while told
me I was not free. I passed on, but the answer to my question by no means satisfied me, especially
when I remembered the hesitancy with which it was given.

I sought another opportunity to speak with Mr. Cruger, and at last found him in his office
alone; then he conversed freely on the subject of Slavery, telling me that Capt. Helm could
not hold me as a slave in that State, if I chose to leave him, and then directed me to D. Comstock
and J. Moore; the first being at the head of a manumission society, and the last named gentleman
one of its directors.

Our condition, as I have said before, was greatly improved; and yet the more we knew of freedom
the more we desired it, and the less willing were we to remain in bondage. The slaves that
Capt. Helm had sold or hired out, were continually leaving him and the country, for a place
of freedom; and I determined to become my own possessor.

There is no one, I care not how favorable his condition, who desires to be a slave, to labor
for nothing all his life for the benefit of others. I have often heard fugitive slaves say,
that it was not so much the cruel beatings and floggings that they received which induced them
to leave the South, as the idea of dragging out a whole life of unrequited toil to enrich their
masters.

Everywhere that Slavery exists, it is nothing but slavery. I found it just as hard to be beaten
over the head with a piece of iron in New York as it was in Virginia. Whips and chains are
everywhere necessary to degrade and brutalize the slave, in order to reduce him to that abject
and humble state which Slavery requires. Nor is the effect much less disastrous on the man
who holds supreme control over the soul and body of his fellow beings. Such unlimited power,
in almost every instance transforms the man into a tyrant; the brother into a demon.

When the first of our persecuted race were brought to this country it was to teach them to
reverence the only true and living God; or such was the answer of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth
of England, when her subjects desired the liberty to bring from their native land the poor,
ignorant African. "Let them," said the Queen, "be brought away only by their own consent, otherwise
the act will be detestable, and bring down the vengeance of heaven upon us." A very different
position truly, from the one assumed at the present day by apologists for the traffic in human
flesh. But, to return to myself.

I had determined to make an effort to own myself, and as a preliminary step, I obtained permission
of Capt. Helm to visit some friends living in Canandaigua and Geneva. This was in the winter
of 1814. I went first to Geneva; from there to Canandaigua. Between the two villages I met
a company of United States' troops, returning from Buffalo, where they had been to repel an
invasion of the British.

The two villages above named, were small but very pretty, having been laid out with taste and
great care. Some wealthy and enterprising gentlemen had come from the East into this great
Western country, who were making every improvement in their power. The dense forest had long
since fallen under the stroke of the woodman's ax, and in that section, flourishing villages
were springing up as if by magic, where so lately roamed wild beasts and rude savages, both
having fallen back before the march of civilization.

I called on James Moore, as directed by Mr. Cruger, and found he was one of the directors of
the "Manumission Society," as it was then called. This was an association of humane and intelligent
gentlemen whose object it was to aid any one who was illegally held in bondage. The funds of
the society were ample; and able counsel was employed to assist those who needed it. The late
lamented John C. Spencer, one of the most eminent lawyers in Western New York, was then counsel
for that society.

I soon got an interview with Mr. Moore, to whom I related the history of my life,--the story
of my wrongs and hardships. I told him about my having been hired out by Capt. Helm, which
he said was sufficient to insure my freedom! Oh! how my heart leaped at the thought! The tears
started, my breast heaved with a mighty throb of gratitude, and I could hardly refrain from
grasping his hand or falling down at his feet; and perhaps should have made some ludicrous
demonstration of my feelings, had not the kind gentleman continued his conversation in another
direction.

He said that indispensable business called him to Albany, where he must go immediately, but
assured me that he would return in March following; then I must come to him and he would see
that I had what justly belonged to me--my freedom from Slavery. He advised me to return to
Bath and go on with my work as usual until March, but to say nothing of my intentions and prospects.
I returned according to his directions, with a heart so light, that I could not realize that
my bonds were not yet broken, nor the yoke removed from off my neck. I was already free in
spirit, and I silently exulted in the bright prospect of liberty.

Could my master have felt what it was to be relieved of such a crushing weight, as the one
which was but partially lifted from my mind, he would have been a happier man than he had been
for a long time.

I went cheerfully back to my labor, and worked with alacrity, impatient only for March to come;
and as the time drew near I began to consider what kind of an excuse I could make to get away.
I could think of none, but I determined to go without one, rather than to remain.

Just before the time appointed for me to meet Mr. Moore, a slave girl named Milly, came secretly
to Bath. She had been one of Capt. Helm's slaves, and he had a while before sold her to a man
who lived some distance west of the village. Milly had now taken the matter into her own hands.
She had left her master to take care of himself, and was in short, "running away," determined
as myself, that she would be a slave no longer; resolved on death, or freedom from the power
of the slaveholder.

The time I had set for my departure was so near at hand, that I concluded to accompany her
in her flight. When the dark night came on, we started together, and traveled all night, and
just as the day dawned we arrived at Manchester, where we stopped a short time with one Thomas
Watkins.

But I was not to be let go so easily. I had been missed at Capt. Helm's, and several men started
in immediate pursuit. I was weary, and so intent on getting a little rest that I did not see
my pursuers until they had well nigh reached the house where I was; but I did see them in time
to spring from the house with the agility of a deer, and to run for the woods as for life.
And indeed, I so considered it. I was unarmed to be sure, and not prepared to defend myself
against two or three men, armed to the teeth; but it would have gone hard with me before I
surrendered myself to them, after having dreamed as I had, and anticipated the blessings of
a free man. I escaped them, thank God, and reached the woods, where I concealed myself for
some time, and where I had ample opportunity to reflect on the injustice and cruelty of my
oppressors, and to ask myself why it was that I was obliged to fly from my home. Why was I
there panting and weary, hungry and destitute--skulking in the woods like a thief, and concealing
myself like a murderer? What had I done? For what fault, or for what crime was I pursued by
armed men, and hunted like a beast of prey? God only knows how these inquiries harrowed up
my very soul, and made me well nigh doubt the justice and mercy of the Almighty, until I remembered
my narrow escape, when my doubts dissolved in grateful tears.

But why, oh why, had I been forced to flee thus from my fellow men? I was guilty of no crime;
I had committed no violence; I had broken no law of the land; I was not charged even with a
fault, except of the love of liberty and a desire to be free! I had claimed the right to possess
my own person, and remove it from oppression. Oh my God, thought I, can the American People,
who at this very hour are pouring out their blood in defence of their country's liberty; offering
up as a sacrifice on the battle field their promising young men, to preserve their land and
hearthstones from English oppression; can they, will they, continue to hunt the poor African
slave from their soil because he desires that same liberty, so dear to the heart of every American
citizen? Will they not blot out from their fair escutcheon the foul stain which Slavery has
cast upon it? Will they not remember the Southern bondman, in whom the love of freedom is as
inherent as in themselves; and will they not, when contending for equal rights, use their mighty
forces "to break every yoke, and let the oppressed go free?" God grant that it may be so!

As soon as I thought it prudent, I pursued my journey, and finally came out into the open country,
near the dwelling of Mr. Dennis Comstock, who, as I have said, was president of the Manumission
Society. To him I freely described my situation, and found him a friend indeed. He expressed
his readiness to assist me, and wrote a line for me to take to his brother, Otis Comstock,
who took me into his family at once. I hired to Mr. Comstock for the season, and from that
time onward lived with him nearly four years.

When I arrived there I was about twenty-two years of age, and felt for the first time in my
life, that I was my own master. I cannot describe to a free man, what a proud manly feeling
came over me when I hired to Mr. C. and made my first bargain, nor when I assumed the dignity
of collecting my own earnings. Notwithstanding I was very happy in my freedom from Slavery,
and had a good home, where for the first time in my life I was allowed to sit at table with
others, yet I found myself very deficient in almost every thing which I should have learned
when a boy.

These and other recollections of the past often saddened my spirit; but hope ,--cheering and
bright, was now mine, and it lighted up the future and gave me patience to persevere.

In the autumn when the farm work was done, I called on Mr. Comstock for some money, and the
first thing I did after receiving it I went to Canandaigua where I found a book-store kept
by a man named J.D. Bemis, and of him I purchased some school books.

No king on his throne could feel prouder or grander than I did that day. With my books under
my arm, and money of my own earning in my pocket, I stepped loftily along toward Farmington,
where I determined to attend the Academy. The thought, however, that though I was twenty-three
years old, I had yet to learn what most boys of eight years knew, was rather a damper on my
spirits. The school was conducted by Mr. J. Comstock, who was a pleasant young man and an excellent
teacher. He showed me every kindness and consideration my position and ignorance demanded;
and I attended his school three winters, with pleasure and profit to myself at least.

When I had been with Mr. Comstock about a year, we received a visit from my old master, Capt.
Helm, who had spared no pains to find me, and when he learned where I was he came to claim
me as "his boy," who, he said he "wanted and must have."

Mr. Comstock told him I was not "his boy," and as such he would not give me up; and further,
that I was free by the laws of the State. He assured the Captain that his hiring me out in
the first instance, to Mr. Tower, forfeited his claim to me, and gave me a right to freedom,--but
if he chose to join issue, they would have the case tried in the Supreme Court; but this proposition
the Captain declined: he knew well enough that it would result in my favor; and after some
flattery and coaxing, he left me with my friend, Mr. Comstock, in liberty and peace!

CHAPTER XII.

CAPT. HELM--DIVORCE--KIDNAPPING.

The business affairs of Capt. Helm had for some time been far from prosperous; and now he was
quite poor. His slave property proved a bad investment, and Madam Thornton a far worse one.
She had already applied for a divorce, and a good share of the estate as alimony; both of which
she succeeded in getting, the Captain allowing her to take pretty much her own course. These
troubles, with costs of lawsuits, bad management, &c., had now emptied the coffers of my old
master almost to the last farthing; and he began to cast about him for some way to replenish
his purse, and retrieve his fallen fortunes.

Had Capt. Helm been brought up to honorable industry, and accustomed to look after his own
pecuniary interests, he doubtless would have sustained his position; or if reverses were unavoidable,
he would have by persevering industry, regained what he had lost. But he had been raised in
a slave State, and Southern principles were as deeply instilled into his mind, as Southern
manners were impressed on his life and conduct.

He had no partiality for labor of any kind; horse-racing and card-playing were far more congenial
to his tastes; reduced as he now was, he would deny himself no luxury that his means or credit
would procure. His few remaining slaves were given into the hands of an idle, brutal overseer
--while they, half fed, half clothed, grew more and more discontented, and ran away on every
opportunity that offered.

The Captain at last hit upon a method of making money, which, if it had been carried into operation
on the high seas, would in all probability have been called by its right name, and incurred
the penalty of the gallows--as piracy. Ought it then to be deemed less criminal because transpiring
on the free soil of the American Republic? I think not. Nor was it less censurable on account
of its failure.

The Captain's plan was to collect all the slaves he had once owned, many of whom had escaped
to the surrounding villages, and when once in his grasp, to run them speedily into a slave
State, and there sell them for the Southern market. To carry forward this hellish design, it
was necessary to have recourse to stratagem. Some person must be found to lure the unsuspecting
slaves into the net he was spreading for them. At last he found a scoundrel named Simon Watkins,
who for the consideration of fifty dollars, was to collect as many of the slaves as he could
at one place; and when he had done so, he was to receive the money, leaving Capt. Helm to do
the rest.

Simon set immediately about the business, which was first to go to Palmyra, and in great kindness
and generosity, give a large party to the colored people,--desiring that all Capt. Helm's former
slaves, in particular, should be present to have a joyous re-union, and celebrate their freedom
in having a fine time generally.

Invitations were sent to all, and extensive preparation made for a large "social party," at
Palmyra, at the house of Mrs. Bristol. My parents were invited; and Simon took the pains to
come to Farmington to give me a special invitation. When the time arrived for the party, I
went to Palmyra with the intention of attending. I had not the least suspicion of any thing
wrong; yet, by some mysterious providence, or something for which I can not account, a presentiment
took possession of my mind that all was not right. I knew not what I feared, and could in no
way define my apprehensions; but I grew so uneasy, that I finally gave up the party and returned
home, before the guests were assembled.

Capt. Helm and his assistants came on to Palmyra in disguise, before evening, and secreted
themselves in one of the hotels to await the arrival of their victims.

At the appointed hour the slaves began to assemble in large numbers and great glee, without
the least suspicion of danger. They soon began their amusements, and in the midst of their
mirth, Capt. Helm and party stealthily crept from their hiding place and surrounded the house;
then bursting in suddenly upon the revelers, began to make arrests. Such a tumult, such an
affray as ensued would be hard to describe.

The slaves fought for their lives and their liberty, and the Captain's party for their property
and power. Fists, clubs, chairs, and any thing they could get hold of, was freely used with
a strength and will of men who had tasted the joys of freedom. Cries and curses were mingled,
while blows fell like hail on both sides. Commands from our old master were met with shouts
of bold defiance on the part of the negroes, until the miserable kidnappers were glad to desist,
and were driven of--not stealthily as they came, but in quick time and in the best way they
could, to escape the threatened vengeance of the slaves, who drove them like "feathers before
the wind." But it was a terrible battle and many were severely wounded; among them was my father.
He was taken to his home, mangled and bleeding, and from the effects of that night's affray
he never recovered. He lingered on in feeble health until death finally released him from suffering,
and placed him beyond the reach of kidnappers and tyrants.

The Captain and his party, enraged and disappointed in their plans at Palmyra, returned to
Bath to see what could be done there toward success, in getting up a gang of slaves for the
Southern market. When they came among the colored people of Bath, it was like a hawk alighting
among a flock of chickens at noon-day. They scattered and ran in every direction, some to the
woods, some hid themselves in cellars, and others in their terror plunged into the Conhocton
River. In this manner the majority of the negroes escaped, but not all; and those were so unfortunate
as to get caught were instantly thrown into a large covered "Pennsylvania wagon," and hurried
off, closely guarded, to Olean Point. Among those taken were Harry Lucas, his wife, Lucinda,
and seven children; Mrs. Jane Cooper and four children, with some others, were also taken.

When Capt. Helm arrived at Olean Point with his stolen freight of human beings, he was unexpectedly
detained until he could build a boat,--which, to his great dismay took him several days.

The sorrow and fearful apprehension of those wretched recaptured slaves can not be described
nor imagined by any one except those who have experienced a like affliction. They had basked
for a short season in the sunshine of liberty, and thought themselves secure from the iron
grasp of Slavery, and the heel of the oppressor, when in the height of their exultation, they
had been thrust down to the lowest depths of misery and despair, with the oppressor's heel
again upon their necks. To be snatched without a moment's warning from their homes and friends,--hurried
and crowded into the close slave wagon, regardless of age or sex, like sheep for the slaughter,
to be carried they knew not whither; but, doubtless to the dismal rice swamp of the South,--was
to them an agony too great for endurance. The adult portion of the miserable company determined
at last to go no farther with their heartless master, but to resist unto death if need be,
before they surrendered themselves to the galling chains they had so recently broken, or writhed
again under the torturing lash of the slave-driver.

Harry Lucas and wife, and Jane Cooper, silently prepared themselves for the conflict, determined
to sell their lives as dearly as possible. When they were nearly ready to start, Jane Cooper
sent her oldest daughter and younger sister, (she who is now our worthy friend Mrs. P. of Bath),
into the woods, and then when the men undertook to get Lucas and the two women on board the
boat the struggle commenced. The women fought the Captain and his confederates like a lioness
robbed of her whelps! They ran and dodged about, making the woods ring with their screams and
shouts of "Murder! Murder! Help! Help! Murder!" until the Captain's party, seeing they could
do nothing to quell them, became so exceedingly alarmed lest they should be detected in their
illegal proceedings, that they ran off at full speed, as if they thought an officer at their
heels. In their hurry and fright they caught two of Harry's children, and throwing them into
the boat, pushed off as quick as possible, amid the redoubled cries of the agonized parents
and sympathizing friends, all trying in every way possible, to recover from the merciless grasp
of the man-stealer, the two frightened and screaming children. Guns were fired and horns sounded,
but all to no purpose--they held tightly the innocent victims of their cupidity, and made good
their escape.

Mr. D. C----, a gentleman of wealth and high standing in Steuben County, became responsible
for the fifty dollars which Capt. Helm promised to pay Simon Watkins for his villainy in betraying,
Judas-like, those unsuspecting persons whom it should have been his pleasure to protect and
defend against their common oppressor,--his own as well as theirs.

In addition to this rascality, it can not appear very creditable to the citizens of Steuben
County, that Capt. Helm and Thomas McBirney should both hold high and important offices at
the time, and after they had been tried and convicted of the crime of kidnapping. Both of these
gentlemen, guilty of a State's prison offence, were judges of the common pleas. T. McBirney
was first judge in the county, and Capt. Helm was side judge; and notwithstanding their participation
in, and conviction of, a flagrant outrage on the laws of God and man, they managed not only
to escape the penalty, but to retain their offices and their respectable standing in community
for years after.

CHAPTER XIII.

LOCATE IN THE VILLAGE OF ROCHESTER.

I continued to labor in the employ of Mr. O. Comstock, whose son, Zeno, was married during
the year 1816, and purchased a farm on the site of the present flourishing village of Lockport,
to which he moved his family and effects; but from a mistaken supposition that the Erie Canal,
which was then under contemplation, would take a more southern route, he was induced to sell
his farm in Hartland, which has proved a mine of wealth to the more fortunate purchaser.

In the winter of that year, I was sent by my employer to Hartland with a sleigh-load of produce,
and passed through the village of Rochester, which I had never before seen. It was a very small,
forbidding looking place at first sight, with few inhabitants, and surrounded by a dense forest.

I recollect that while pursuing my journey, I overtook a white man driving a span of horses,
who contended that I had not a right to travel the public highway as other men did, but that
it was my place to keep behind him and his team. Being in haste I endeavored to pass him quietly,
but he would not permit it and hindered me several hours, very much to my annoyance and indignation.
This was, however, but a slight incident indicating the bitter prejudice which every man seemed
to feel against the negro. No matter how industrious he might be, no matter how honorable in
his dealings, or respectful in his manners,--he was a "nigger," and as such he must be treated,
with a few honorable exceptions.

This year also, my father died in the village of Palmyra, where, as I have before mentioned,
he received injuries from which he never entirely recovered. After about six months severe
illness which he bore with commendable patience and resignation, his spirit returned to God
who gave it; and his sorrowing friends and bereaved family followed his remains to their final
abode, where we laid him down to rest from unrequited labor and dire oppression, until "all
they who are in their graves shall hear the voice of the Son of God, and they that hear shall
live forever," where the "tears shall be wiped from off all faces"--and where the righteous
bondman shall no longer fear the driver's lash or master's frown, but freely join in the song
of "Alleluia! The Lord God Omnipotent reigneth!"

My father had a good reputation for honesty and uprightness of character among his employers
and acquaintances, and was a kind, affectionate husband and a fond, indulgent parent. His,
I believe was the life and death of a good man. "Peace be to his ashes."

The following season I commenced a new business--that of peddling in the village of Rochester
such articles as my employer, Mr. Comstock, desired to sell: the products of his farm,--wheat,
corn, oats, butter, cheese, meat, and poultry--all of which met a ready sale, generally for
cash at liberal prices. That market was then but little known to the generality of farmers,
and the enterprising gentlemen of that place, were desirous of encouraging commerce with the
surrounding country, offered every encouragement in their power. Hence, we found it a profitable
business, which I continued in for several months.

The present flourishing city of Rochester was then, as I have said, but a village in its infancy,
situated near the upper falls of the Genesee River, and about seven miles from its mouth. Here,
some time previously, three gentlemen from Maryland bought a large tract of land, and as no
business man could fail to observe and appreciate its rare advantages they commenced laying
out a village. Sirs Fitzhugh, Carroll, and Rochester, composed the company; but the management
of the business devolved almost wholly on Col. Rochester, whose wealth, enterprise, and intelligence
well qualified him for the undertaking; and as it had been assigned him to cognominate the
new village, I have heard it said that he jocularly gave his reason for selecting its present
title, as follows: "Should he call it Fitzhugh or Carroll, the slighted gentleman would certainly
feel offended with the other; but if he called it by his own name, they would most likely both
be angry with him; so it was best to serve them alike."

There was then two grist mills,--one owned by Mr. Ely, and the other by Mr. Brown; one small
building for religious worship, occupied by the Presbyterians on Carroll street (now State
street); and but two stone buildings within what now comprises that beautiful city. There were
then no brick buildings at all, but business was good; merchants and mechanics from the East
soon began to settle there and give it a thriving aspect.

About this time another company was formed, whose moving spirit was Mr. E. Stone, a man of
worth and talent; the object of which was to locate another village at the head of navigation
and about half way between the mouth of the river and Rochester, which they called Carthage.

The company commenced building and improving the place so rapidly, that many who came to purchase
residences and business stations were at a loss to decide which of the two places would finally
become the center of business. It, however, was soon perceivable that the advantage of water
privileges, stone, and access to both, was greatly in favor of Rochester. At Carthage the Genesee
is narrow and its banks steep and abrupt, rising in many places three hundred feet above the
bed of the river, which of course render the privileges and business on it far less easy of
access for building purposes. I may have occasion to speak hereafter of the expensive and magnificent
bridge at Carthage, which was the wonder and admiration of the times.

The following year I concluded to go into business for myself, and was as much at loss as others,
whether to locate at Rochester or Carthage; but after considering the matter in all its bearings,
and closely watching the progress of events, my choice preponderated in favor of Rochester,
and to that place I went, designing to enter into business on my own account.

It was indeed painful to my feelings to leave the home and family of Mr. Comstock, where I
had experienced so much real comfort and happiness, where I had ever been treated with uniform
kindness, where resided those kind friends to whom I felt under the greatest obligation for
the freedom and quietude I then enjoyed, as well as for the little knowledge of business and
of the world that I then possessed. Thinking, however, that I could better my condition, I
subdued, as well as I could, my rising emotions, and after sincerely thanking them for their
goodness and favors--wishing them long life and prosperity,--I took my departure for the chosen
place of my destination.

Soon after I left Mr. Comstock's, that gentleman, sent his hired man, named John Cline, to
Rochester with a wagon load of produce to sell, as had been his custom for some time. In vain
the family looked for his return at the usual hour in the evening, and began to wonder what
had detained him; but what was their horror and surprise to find, when they arose the next
morning, the horses standing at the door, and the poor unfortunate man lying in the wagon,
dead! How long they had been there nobody knew; no one had heard them come in; and how the
man had been killed was a matter of mere conjecture. The coroner was sent for and an inquest
held, and yet it was difficult to solve the whole mystery.

The most probable explanation was, that he was sitting in the back part of the wagon, and fell
over on his left side, striking his neck on the edge of the wagon box, breaking it instantly.

The verdict of the jury was, in accordance with these facts, "accidental death," &c.

When I left Mr. Comstock's I had acquired quite a knowledge of reading, writing, arithmetic,
and had made a small beginning in English grammar.

It had been for some time a question which I found hard to decide, whether or not I should
pursue my studies as I had done. If I went into business as I contemplated, I knew it would
end my proficiency in the sciences; and yet I felt a desire to accumulate more of the wealth
that perisheth. Considering too that I was advancing in age, and had no means of support but
by my own labor, I finally concluded to do what I have from that time to this deeply regretted,--give
up the pursuit of an education, and turn my attention wholly to business. I do not regret having
desired a competency, nor for having labored to obtain it, but I do regret not having spared
myself sufficient leisure to pursue some regular system of reading and study; to have cultivated
my mind and stored it with useful knowledge.

Truly has it been said, "knowledge is power." But it is not like the withering curse of a tyrant's
power; not like the degrading and brutalizing power of the slave-driver's lash, chains, and
thumb-screws; not like the beastly, demonical power of rum, nor like the brazen, shameless
power of lust; but a power that elevates and refines the intellect; directs the affections;
controls unholy passions; a power so God-like in its character, that it enables its possessor
to feel for the oppressed of every clime, and prepares him to defend the weak and down-trodden.

What but ignorance renders the poor slave so weak and inefficient in claiming his right to
liberty, and the possession of his own being! Nor will that God who is "no respecter of persons,"
hold him guiltless who assumes unlimited control over his fellow. The chain of Slavery which
fetters every slave south of Mason and Dixon's Line, is as closely linked around the master
as the slave. The time has passed by when African blood alone is enslaved. In Virginia as well
as in some other slave States, there is as much European blood in the veins of the enslaved
as there is African; and the increase is constantly in favor of the white population. This
fact alone speaks volumes, and should remind the slave-breeding Southerner of that fearful
retribution which must sooner or later overtake him.

In September, 1817, I commenced business in Rochester. Having rented a room of Mr. A. Wakely,
I established a meat market, which was supplied mostly by my former employer, Mr. Comstock,
and was liberally patronized by the citizens; but there were butchers in the village who appeared
to be unwilling that I should have any share in public patronage. Sometimes they tore down
my sign, at others painted it black, and so continued to annoy me until after I had one of
their number arrested, which put a stop to their unmanly proceedings.

The village was now rapidly increasing, and yet the surrounding country was mostly a wilderness.
Mr. E. Stone, who then owned the land on the east side of the river, thought his farm a very
poor one; he, however, commenced clearing it in the midst of wild beasts and rattlesnakes,
both of which were abundant, and in a few years was richly rewarded for his labor, in the sale
of village lots, which commanded high prices.

In the summer of 1818, I commenced teaching a Sabbath School for the neglected children of
our oppressed race. For a while it was well attended, and I hoped to be able to benefit in
some measure the poor and despised colored children, but the parents interested themselves
very little in the undertaking, and it shortly came to naught. So strong was the prejudice
then existing against the colored people, that very few of the negroes seemed to have any courage
or ambition to rise from the abject degradation in which the estimation of the white man had
placed him.

This year, also, I purchased a lot of land, eighteen by fifty feet, situated on Main street,
for which I was to pay five hundred dollars. Having secured my land, I began making preparations
for building, and soon had a good two story dwelling and store, into which I moved my effects,
and commenced a more extensive business.

Some disadvantage as well as sport was occasioned on business men, who resided on the confines
of Ontario and Genesee Counties. It was indeed laughable to witness the races and maneuvering
of parties in those days when men were imprisoned for debt. If a man in Ontario County had
a suspicion that an officer was on his track, he had only to step over the line into Genesee,
to be beyond the power of an officer's precept.

A great deal of trouble as well as unpleasant feeling was engendered by the exercise of that
law, which allowed the creditor so great advantage over the debtor. This, together with the
fact that very many of the citizens of Rochester were men of small means, the more wealthy
portion felt called upon to protect their interests, by forming themselves into what was called
a "Shylock Society," the object of which was to obtain a list of all the names of persons who
had been, or were then, on "the limits" for debt. This list of names was printed, and each
member of the society furnished with a copy, which enabled him to decide whether or not to
trust a man when he came to trade. The formation of this society gave rise to another, whose
members pledged themselves to have no dealing with a member of the "Shylock Society," and also
to publish all defaulters in "high life," which served to check these oppressive measures and
restore harmony.

Among others who came to settle in the thriving village of Rochester, was a colored man named
Daniel Furr, who came from the East. He soon became acquainted with a very respectable young
white lady, of good family, who after a short acquaintance appeared to be perfectly enamored
of her dusky swain; and notwithstanding the existing prejudice, she did not scruple to avow
her affection for him,--a devotion which appeared to be as sincerely returned by the young
"Othello." They resolved to marry; but to this, serious objections arose, and all that the
lady's family and friends could do to break off the match was done, but without effect. They
could, however, prevail on no one to perform the marriage ceremony in the village, and finally
concluded to go to a magistrate in the town of Brighton, four miles distant. At this stage
of the proceedings I was appealed to, to accompany them. I took the matter into consideration
and came to the conclusion that I could take no active part in the affair, nor bear any responsible
station in the unpleasant occurrence. Is it no sin in the sight of the Almighty, for Southern
gentlemen(?) to mix blood and amalgamate the races? And if allowed to them, is it not equally
justifiable when the commerce is prompted by affection rather than that of lust and force?
But I at length consented to accompany them, after learning that all the mischief was already
done that could be feared, and that the gallant lover desired to marry the lady as the only
atonement he could make for the loss of her reputation.

We arrived at the house of the magistrate about one o'clock at night, and all were soundly
sleeping. They were, however, aroused, and when our business was made known, an exciting scene
followed. The magistrate refused at first to marry them; and the lady of the house took aside
the intended bride, spending two hours in endeavoring to dissuade her from the contemplated
union; assuring her that her house should be freely opened to her, that no attention should
be spared during her expected confinement, &c.; but all to no purpose. They returned to the
parlor where the magistrate again tried his power of persuasion, but with as little success
as his lady had met: and then he reluctantly married them. The newly-made husband paid a liberal
fee, and we took our leave. I returned to my home to reflect on the scenes of the past night,
and Mr. and Mrs. Furr to the house of a friend of the bride in Penfield.

The report soon reached the village that the marriage had been consummated, which produced
a great excitement. Threats of an alarming character were openly made against the "nigger"
who had dared to marry a white woman, although at her own request. And there was also a class
of persons who associated together, professing great friendship for the persecuted husband,
and often drew him into their company, pretending to defend his cause while they were undoubtedly
plotting his destruction.

One day, after Furr had been drinking rather freely with his pretended friends, he was taken
so violently ill, that a physician was immediately called. I was with him when the doctor arrived.
He gazed upon the suffering man with an angry expression, and inquired in a tone of command,
"Daniel, what have you been doing?" In vain the poor creature begged for relief, the doctor
merely repeating his question. After looking at him for some time, he finally administered
a potion and hastily left the room, saying as he did so, "that Furr was as sure to die as though
his head had been cut off." And so it proved, though not so speedily as the medical man had
predicted; nor did he ever visit him again, notwithstanding he lingered for several days in
the most intense agony. It was a strong man grappling with disease and death, and the strife
was a fearful one. But death at last ended the scene, with none of all his professed friends,
except his faithful but heart-broken wife, to administer to his necessities. No sound save
that of the moaning widow broke the stillness of his death-chamber. A few friends collected,
who prepared the emaciated body for the grave; enclosing it in a rude board coffin it was conveyed
to its last resting place, followed by three or four men, just as the shades of evening had
fallen upon this sin-cursed world; there in darkness and silence we lowered his remains, and
left the gloomy spot to return to his disconsolate wife, who had been too ill to join the meager
procession.

It has ever been my conviction that Furr was poisoned, most likely by some of his false friends
who must have mingled some deadly drug with his drinks or food; nor do I believe that the medicine
administered by the physician was designed to save his life. But to Him who knoweth all things,
we leave the matter.

His despised, forsaken, and bereaved wife soon followed him to the grave, where she sleeps
quietly with her innocent babe by her side; and where probably this second Desdemonia finds
the only refuge which would have been granted her by a heartless and persecuting world.

Oh, when will this nation "cease to do evil and learn to do well?" When will they judge character
in accordance with its moral excellence, instead of the complexion a man unavoidably bears
to the world?

CHAPTER XIV.

INCIDENTS IN ROCHESTER AND VICINITY.

After long petitioning, the inhabitants of that section succeeded in having the new county
of Monroe set off from Genesee and Ontario Counties, in 1821, which gave a new impulse to the
business interests of the already flourishing town, which had heretofore labored under some
disadvantages in consequence of having all public business done at Canandaigua or Batavia.

About this time, too, was the Carthage bridge built by a company of enterprising gentlemen
of that village which at that day was considered one of the wonders of the age; but as its
history is well known to all interested in the enterprises of those days, it is only necessary
to say, that the magnificent structure, so grand in its appearance, such a pattern of mechanical
ingenuity, exhibiting in all its vast proportions, both strength and beauty, combined with
utility and grandeur; and erected at such an enormous expense of time, labor, and cash, was
destined soon to fall.

It had cost some ten thousand dollars; and had been warranted by the builders to stand one
year. How great then must have been the loss and disappointment when in a little more than
twenty-four hours after the time specified, the ruins of that beautiful structure were found
floating on the broad bosom of the Genesee! And yet when we take into consideration the vast
amount of human life which hourly passed over its solid surface, we can but wonder at the intervention
of a kind Providence which prevented any loss of life at the time of its fall. A child had
but just passed over it, when with one general crash it sank to the waters below; mocking in
its rapid flight, the wisdom of the architect and foresight of frail humanity. The fall of
Carthage bridge was indeed a calamity felt by the public generally, and sounded the death-knell
of all future greatness to Carthage, or at least for some years to come.

About this time the village was thrown into a state of excitement by the arrest of a colored
woman named Ellen, who it was charged had escaped from service due to a Mr. D., south of Mason
and Dixon's Line. She had been arrested in accordance with a law passed by Congress in 1793,
which forbids persons owing service in one State to flee to another; and which also obliges
those receiving such service, to render to the claimant any fugitive from labor due, &c. Poor
Ellen! She had many friends and able counsel, but nothing short of an open violation of the
law of the land, could prevent her return to the house of bondage. She was tried and given
up to him who claimed dominion over her. Hopeless and heart-broken, she was escorted from the
boasted land and village of freedom, by a company of the "Light Horse," under the command of
Capt. Curtis. One poor, persecuted slave woman, upon whose heart had fallen a shadow darker
than death's; driving every earthly hope of liberty from her wounded spirit; helpless and forlorn!
She indeed must have required this military parade--this show of power! And that too, by men
who throw up their caps with a shout for freedom and equal rights! Oh, "consistency, thou art
a jewel!"

As I recollect but one other incident of the kind occurring in Rochester, I will now name it.

A colored man named Davis, generally known as "Doctor Davis," with a reputation unsullied for
industry, truth and sobriety, was arrested as a fugitive from slave labor in Kentucky. Two
men came on from that State, acting in the double capacity of agents for the claimant and witnesses
against the slave. They employed Mr. L. as counsel, and hastened on the trial of the afflicted
African. When it became generally known that Davis was arrested, and about to be tried, the
excitement grew intense among all classes; but more particularly among the colored people.
When the trial came on, the Court room was crowded to overflowing, and every avenue leading
to it densely thronged with deeply anxious persons, assembled to witness the result. It became
evident, however, that the poor man must be given up to his grasping master, unless some means
were devised to rescue him from the power of an unjust law. His friends were on the alert,
and as the trial proceeded, the colored men found an opportunity to get him into a corner of
the crowded apartment; where, while the officers stood at the door, they dressed him in disguise,
and otherwise so completely changed his personal appearance, that he passed out of the Court
room, undetected by the officers, and as all supposed was safely pursuing his way to Canada.

The hawk-eyed counsel for the Kentuckians, however, too soon observed exultation written on
every dusky countenance, to keep quiet. Starting to his feet in great alarm, he cried out "Where
is Davis?" And oh, how that question startled every one present. Every eye gazed hither and
thither, and every ear intently listened for the answer. After a moment of breathless silence,
the excited counselor was assured that the "bird had flown," which announcement was received
with a rapturous shout of joy by the audience, greatly, however, to the discomfiture of the
gentlemen from Kentucky, who had thought themselves so sure of their prize. Nor would they
be thwarted now. It was not yet too late to overtake their victim, and slavery required at
their hands a sacrifice which they were ready to make. Hand-bills were in immediate circulation,
offering a reward of fifty dollars for the apprehension of the flying fugitive. Fifty dollars,
for the body and soul of a man to plunge into the degradation of Slavery! Fifty dollars for
the ruin of a fellow being, for whom Christ gave his precious life! Yes, fifty dollars are
offered to any human blood-hound who will hunt and worry the poor slave, who must fly from
this boasted land of liberty, to seek protection in the dominion of England's Queen!

Unfortunately for Davis, some of these hand-bills were thrown on board the very packet on which
he had embarked for Buffalo; nor was this all. The bills would have left him uninjured, but
a scoundrel--an apology for a man--was there also, who, for the consideration of fifty dollars
was willing to compromise all pretensions to manhood and humanity, and drag from the boat the
panting slave, whom he cast beneath the heel of his oppressor. When Davis was finally retaken,
those Kentucky dealers in human chattels, held him with a grasp that banished all hope of escape
by flight; and then in his sorrow and despair the wretched, hopeless man cried out "Oh, my
God, must I return to the hell of Slavery? Save me, Oh, dear Lord, save this, thy helpless,
friendless servant, from a fate so dreadful! Oh, Christian friends and neighbors, I appeal
to you to rescue me from a life far more terrible than death in any form! Oh, God, is there
no protection for me in the laws of New York? I claim it, by all that is sacred in her past
history! Give me liberty or death! or death!" he repeated, with a shudder; then casting one
glance of hopeless agony on his persecutors, he secretly drew from his pocket a razor, and
before he could be prevented he drew it across his throat, and fell gasping in the midst of
his slave-hunting tormentors, while a collection of bystanders cried "Shame! shame! on the
institution of Slavery!"

Poor Davis was not dead, but supposing he soon would be, these gentlemen were requested to
give security, and indemnify the town for all expenses it might incur on Davis' account. But
instead of giving their bond as requested, they took a sudden start for Kentucky, where it
was very generally desired they might remain.

With good treatment, Davis, after a long time, recovered sufficiently to be removed by his
friends to a place of safety; and when so far restored as to be able he returned to Rochester,
where he received assistance which enabled him to reach Canada. I have often heard from him
during his residence in that country, where no slaves exist and he has done well, having quite
an extensive practice in medicine, and lives in the quiet enjoyment of that liberty which he
struggled so hard to obtain and came so near losing; yet, to this day he prefers death to Slavery.
And who does not? None, who have breathed the air of freedom after an experience of unrequited
toil to enrich a brutal and selfish master. Truly is it said, "a contented slave is a degraded
being."

CHAPTER XV.

SAD REVERSES OF CAPT. HELM.

I must again introduce to the kind reader my old master, Capt. Helm, who we left residing in
Bath, several years ago. And as I have before intimated he had now become a very poor man;
indeed so reduced was he now that he lived with one of his slave women, and was supported by
public charity! Learning, too, that I had saved by my industry a few hundred dollars, it seemed
very congenial with his avaricious habits to endeavor to obtain what I possessed. In accordance
with his plan he employed a lawyer named Lewland to come to my place of business, which he
did, and demanded of me to pay Capt. Helm two hundred dollars. He also left a notice, forbidding
all persons to take or destroy any property in my possession; and then impudently inquired
how I expected to gain my freedom; if I thought of applying for a writ of habaeus corpus; and
many other questions; to which I replied that I should pay no money on the order of Capt. Helm;
apply for no writ; but should continue to maintain my personal rights and enjoy the freedom
which was already mine, and which I designed to keep, assuring him that the Captain had forfeited
his claim, if he had any, to me or my services, when he hired me to Mr. Tower.

He hung about me for a day or two, and then left me to pursue my business --I saw no more of
him. Some time afterward Mr. H.E. Rochester informed me that he had a subpoena for me, which
I found was issued by the direction of Capt. Helm. By Mr. Rochester's counsel, I took it to
Mr. A. Sampson, who assured me that my old master had commenced a suit against me in the Court
of Equity, and the case would be tried before Wm. B. Rochester, Esq., who was one of the circuit
judges. Capt. Helm claimed every particle of property I possessed; a claim that occasioned
me great anxiety and some cost.

Mr. Sampson encouraged me to hope, however, that the case would be dismissed as two other cases
of that kind had been.

I labored to the best of my ability to prepare myself for the trial, which was to decide whether
I had a right to possess myself and command my own services and earnings, or whether all belonged
to Capt. Helm. As I looked forward with anxious forebodings to the day appointed for the suit
to commence, I was startled by the announcement of my old master's death! Yes, Capt. Helm was
dead; and with him died the law suit. He who had so wronged me, who had occasioned me so much
suffering and sorrow had gone to his account. He who had once been thought to be one of the
wealthiest as well as one of the greatest men in the county, died a pauper--neglected and despised,
and scarcely awarded a decent burial. Like his wife, who died such a horrid death, he had been
reared in affluence and was an inheritor of vast possessions, but his home was in a slave State;
he was raised on a plantation, and nurtured in the atmosphere of Slavery.

In his youth he had contracted the habit of drinking to excess, beside that of gambling, horse-racing
and the like, which followed him through life. Forgotten and scorned in his poverty by many
who had partaken of his abundance, sipped his wine, and rode his fast horses.

During the last war his princely mansion was ever open to the officers of the army, and many
a wounded soldier has been cheered and comforted by his hospitality. But now he is regarded
as no better than his poorest slave, and lies as lowly as they, in the narrow house appointed
for all the living.

My old master had two brothers: the oldest, Thomas Helm, was a Captain in the United States
Army, and had been in many hard-fought battles. His younger brother, William, was a Captain
also; but Thomas was the man to awaken curiosity. I have lived with him, but never knew of
his going unarmed for an hour, until he left Virginia and came to Steuben County, where he
died. When at the South, I have seen strangers approach him, but they were invariably commanded
to "stand" and to "approach him at their peril." He finally came to the State of New York,
bringing with him his "woman" with whom he lived, and two children, with whom he settled on
a piece of land given him by my old master, where the old soldier lived, died, and was buried
on one of his small "clearings" under an old apple tree. He owned a few slaves, but at his
death his "woman" collected every thing she could, and among the rest, two or three slave children,
to whom she had no right or claim whatever, and made her way to Kentucky. About a year ago
I visited the spot where the brave old defender of his country had been buried, but found very
little to mark the resting place of the brother of my old master. They had passed away. Their
wealth, power and bravery had come to nought; and no tribute was now paid to the memory of
one of "Old Virginia's best families." The blood of which they were wont to boast, was now
no more revered than that which commingled with the African and circulated in the veins of
his despised and downtrodden slaves.

CHAPTER XVI.

BRITISH EMANCIPATION OF SLAVERY.

As time passed on I found myself progressing in a profitable business. I had paid for my house
and lot, and purchased another adjoining, on which I had erected a valuable brick building.
The Lord prospered all my undertakings and I felt grateful for my good fortune. I kept all
kinds of groceries and grain, which met a ready sale; and now I began to look about me for
a partner in life, to share my joys and sorrows, and to assist me on through the tempestuous
scenes of a life-long voyage. Such a companion I found in the intelligent and amiable Miss
B----, to whom I was married on the eleventh of May, 1825. She was the youngest daughter of
a particular friend, who had traveled extensively and was noted for his honesty and intelligence.

About this time, too, "Sam Patch" made his last and fatal leap from a scaffold twenty five
feet above the falls of Genesee, which are ninety-six feet in height. From thence he plunged
into the foaming river to rise no more in life. The following spring the body of the foolish
man was found and buried, after having lain several months in the turbulent waters of the Genesee.

This year was also rendered memorable by the efficient labors of Professor Finney, through
whose faithful preaching of the gospel, many were brought to a saving knowledge of the truth.

The "Emancipation Act" had now been passed, and the happy time for it to take effect was drawing
nigh. Slavery could no longer exist in the Empire State nor receive the protection of her laws.
Would to God it had so continued to be what it professed--the refuge of the bondman and the
home of the free. But alas! Now the flying fugitive from Slavery finds no security within her
borders; he must flee onward, to the dominion of Queen Victoria, ere he rests, lest the exaction
of the odious "Fugitive Slave Law" return him to the house of bondage.

But the Emancipation Bill had been passed, and the colored people felt it to be a time fit
for rejoicing. They met in different places and determined to evince their gratitude by a general
celebration. In Rochester they convened in large numbers, and resolved to celebrate the glorious
day of freedom at Johnson's Square, on the fifth day of July. This arrangement was made so
as not to interfere with the white population who were everywhere celebrating the day of their
independence--"the Glorious Fourth,"--for amid the general and joyous shout of liberty, prejudice
had sneeringly raised the finger of scorn at the poor African, whose iron bands were loosed,
not only from English oppression, but the more cruel and oppressive power of Slavery.

They met according to previous appointment, Mr. A. H----, having been chosen president, Mr.
H. E----, marshal, and Mr. H. D----, reader of the "Act of Emancipation," and "The Declaration
of Independence." A large audience of both white and colored people assembled, and the day
which had been ushered in by the booming cannon, passed by in the joyous realization that we
were indeed free men. To the music of the band the large procession marched from the square
to the hotel, where ample provision was made for dinner, after listening to the following oration,
which I had been requested to deliver.

I must not omit to mention that on the morning of that happy day, a committee of colored men
waited upon the Hon. Matthew Brown, and in behalf of the citizens of Monroe County, presented
their thanks for his noble exertions in the Legislature, in favor of the Act by which thousands
were made free men.

They were received by that worthy gentleman with grateful and pleasing assurances of his continued
labor in behalf of freedom.

Now I will lay before the reader my address to the audience on that eventful day.

CHAPTER XVII.

ORATION--TERMINATION OF SLAVERY.

The age in which we live is characterised in no ordinary degree, by a certain boldness and
rapidity in the march of intellectual and political improvements. Inventions the most surprising;
revolutions the most extraordinary, are springing forth, and passing in quick succession before
us,--all tending most clearly to the advancement of mankind towards that state of earthly perfection
and happiness, from which they are yet so far distant, but of which their nature and that of
the world they inhabit, are most certainly capable. It is at all times pleasing and instructive
to look backward by the light of history, and forward by the light of analogical reasoning,
to behold the gradual advancement of man from barbarism to civilization, from civilization
toward the higher perfections of his nature; and to hope--nay, confidently believe, that the
time is not far distant when liberty and equal rights being everywhere established, morality
and the religion of the gospel everywhere diffused,--man shall no longer lift his hand for
the oppression of his fellow man; but all, mutually assisting and assisted, shall move onward
throughout the journey of human life, like the peaceful caravan across the burning sands of
Arabia. And never, on this glorious anniversary, so often and so deservedly celebrated by millions
of free men, but which we are to-day for the first time called to celebrate--never before,
has the eye been able to survey the past with so much satisfaction, or the future with hopes
and expectations so brilliant and so flattering; it is to us a day of two-fold joy. We are
men, though the strong hand of prejudice and oppression is upon us; we can, and we will rejoice
in the advancement of the rapidly increasing happiness of mankind, and especially of our own
race. We can, and we will rejoice in the growing power and glory of the country we inhabit.
Although Almighty God has not permitted us to remain in the land of our forefathers and our
own, the glories of national independence, and the sweets of civil and religious liberty, to
their full extent; but the strong hand of the spoiler has borne us into a strange land, yet
has He of His great goodness given us to behold those best and noblest of his gifts to man,
in their fairest and loveliest forms; and not only have we beheld them, but we have already
felt much of their benignant influence. Most of us have hitherto enjoyed many, very many of
the dearest rights of freemen. Our lives and personal liberties have been held as sacred and
inviolable; the rights of property have been extended to us, in this land of freedom; our industry
has been, and still is, liberally rewarded; and so long as we live under a free and happy government
which denies us not the protection of its laws, why should we fret and vex ourselves because
we have had no part in framing them, nor anything to do with their administration. When the
fruits of the earth are fully afforded us, we do not wantonly refuse them, nor ungratefully
repine because we have done nothing towards the cultivation of the tree which produces them.
No, we accept them with lively gratitude; and their sweetness is not embittered by reflecting
upon the manner in which they were obtained. It is the dictate of sound wisdom, then, to enjoy
without repining, the freedom, privileges, and immunities which wise and equal laws have awarded
us--nay, proudly to rejoice and glory in their production, and stand ready at all times to
defend them at the hazard of our lives, and of all that is most dear to us.

But are we alone shut out and excluded from any share in the administration of government?
Are not the clergy, a class of men equally ineligible to office? A class of men almost idolized
by their countrymen, ineligible to office! And are we alone excluded from what the world chooses
to denominate polite society? And are not a vast majority of the polar race excluded? I know
not why, but mankind of every age, nation, and complexion have had lower classes; and, as a
distinction, they have chosen to arrange themselves in the grand spectacle of human life, like
seats in a theater--rank above rank, with intervals between them. But if any suppose that happiness
or contentment is confined to any single class, or that the high or more splendid order possesses
any substantial advantage in those respects over their more lowly brethren, they must be wholly
ignorant of all rational enjoyment. For what though the more humble orders cannot mingle with
the higher on terms of equality. This, if rightly considered, is not a curse but a blessing.
Look around you, my friends: what rational enjoyment is not within your reach? Your homes are
in the noblest country in the world, and all of that country which your real happiness requires,
may at any time be yours. Your industry can purchase it; and its righteous laws will secure
you in its possession. But, to what, my friends, do you owe all these blessings? Let not the
truth be concealed. You owe them to that curse, that bitter scourge of Africa, whose partial
abolishment you are this day convened to celebrate. Slavery has been your curse, but it shall
become your rejoicing. Like the people of God in Egypt, you have been afflicted; but like them
too, you have been redeemed. You are henceforth free as the mountain winds. Why should we,
on this day of congratulation and joy, turn our view upon the origin of African Slavery? Why
should we harrow up our minds by dwelling on the deceit, the forcible fraud and treachery that
have been so long practised on your hospitable and unsuspecting countrymen? Why speak of fathers
torn from the bosom of their families, wives from the embraces of their husbands, children
from the protection of their parents; in fine, of all the tender and endearing relations of
life dissolved and trampled under foot, by the accursed traffic in human flesh? Why should
we remember, in joy and exultation, the thousands of our countrymen who are to-day, in this
land of gospel light, this boasted land of civil and religious liberty, writhing under the
lash and groaning beneath the grinding weight of Slavery's chain? I ask, Almighty God, are
they who do such things thy chosen and favorite people? But, away with such thoughts as these;
we will rejoice, though sobs interrupt the songs of our rejoicing, and tears mingle in the
cup we pledge to Freedom; our harps though they have long hung neglected upon the willows,
shall this day be strung full high to the notes of gladness. On this day, in one member at
least of this mighty Republic, the Slavery of our race has ceased forever! No more shall the
insolent voice of a master be the main-spring of our actions, the sole guide of our conduct;
no more shall their hands labor in degrading and profitless servitude. Their toils will henceforth
be voluntary, and be crowned with the never failing reward of industry. Honors and dignities
may perhaps never be ours; but wealth, virtue, and happiness are all within the compass of
our moderate exertions. And how shall we employ a few moments better than in reflecting upon
the means by which these are to be obtained. For what can be more proper and more profitable
to one who has just gained an invaluable treasure, than to consider how he may use it to the
best possible advantage? And here I need not tell you that a strict observance to all the precepts
of the gospel ought to be your first and highest aim; for small will be the value of all that
the present world can bestow, if the interests of the world to come are neglected and despised.
None of you can be ignorant of what the gospel teaches. Bibles may easily be obtained; nor
can there be a greater disgrace, or a more shameful neglect of duty than for a person of mature
age, and much more, for any father of a family to be without that most precious of all books--the
Bible. If, therefore, any of you are destitute of a Bible, hasten to procure one. Will any
of you say that it can be of no use to you, or that you cannot read it? Look then to that noblest
of all remedies for this evil, the Sunday School--that most useful of all institutions. There
you may learn without loss of time or money, that of which none should be ignorant--to read.

Let me exhort you with earnestness to give your most sincere attention to this matter. It is
of the utmost importance to every one of you. Let your next object be to obtain as soon as
may be, a competency of the good things of this world; immense wealth is not necessary for
you, and would but diminish your real happiness. Abject poverty is and ought to be regarded
as the greatest, most terrible of all possible evils. It should be shunned as a most deadly
and damning sin. What then are the means by which so dreadful a calamity may be avoided? I
will tell you, my friends, in these simple words--hear and ponder on them; write them upon
the tablets of your memory; they are worthy to be inscribed in letters of gold upon every door-post--"industry,
prudence, and economy." Oh! they are words of power to guide you to respectability and happiness.
Attend, then, to some of the laws which industry impose, while you have health and strength.
Let not the rising sun behold you sleeping or indolently lying upon your beds. Rise ever with
the morning light; and, till sun-set, give not an hour to idleness. Say not human nature cannot
endure it. It can--it almost requires it. Sober, diligent, and moderate labor does not diminish
it, but on the contrary, greatly adds to the health, vigor, and duration of the human frame.
Thousands of the human race have died prematurely of disease engendered by indolence and inactivity.
Few, very few indeed, have suffered by the too long continuance of bodily exertion. As you
give the day to labor, so devote the night to rest; for who that has drunk and reveled all
night at a tippling shop, or wandered about in search of impious and stolen pleasures, has
not by so doing not only committed a most heinous and damning sin in the sight of Heaven, but
rendered himself wholly unfit for the proper discharge of the duties of the coming day. Nor
think that industry or true happiness do not go hand in hand; and to him who is engaged in
some useful avocation, time flies delightfully and rapidly away. He does not, like the idle
and indolent man, number the slow hours with sighs--cursing both himself and them for the tardiness
of their flight. Ah, my friends, it is utterly impossible for him who wastes time in idleness,
ever to know anything of true happiness. Indolence, poverty, wretchedness, are inseparable
companions,--fly them, shun idleness, as from eminent and inevitable destruction. In vain will
you labor unless prudence and economy preside over and direct all your exertions. Remember
at all times that money even in your own hands, is power; with it you may direct as you will
the actions of your pale, proud brethren. Seek after and amass it then, by just and honorable
means; and once in your hand never part with it but for a full and fair equivalent; nor let
that equivalent be something which you do not want, and for which you cannot obtain more than
it cost you. Be watchful and diligent and let your mind be fruitful in devises for the honest
advancement of your worldly interest. So shall you continually rise in respectability, in rank
and standing in this so late and so long the land of your captivity.

Above all things refrain from the excessive use of ardent spirits. There is no evil whose progress
is so imperceptible; and at the same time so sure and deadly, as that of intemperance; and
by slow degrees it undermines health, wealth, and happiness, till all at length tumble into
one dreadful mass of ruin. If God has given you children, he has in so doing imposed upon you
a most fearful responsibility; believe me, friends, you will answer to God for every misfortune
suffered, and every crime committed by them which right education and example could have taught
them to avoid. Teach them reverence and obedience to the laws both of God and man. Teach them
sobriety, temperance, justice, and truth. Let their minds be rightly instructed--imbued with
kindness and brotherly love, charity, and benevolence. Let them possess at least so much learning
as is to be acquired in the common schools of the country. In short, let their welfare be dearer
to you than any earthly enjoyment; so shall they be the richest of earthly blessings.

My countrymen, let us henceforth remember that we are men. Let us as one man, on this day resolve
that henceforth, by continual endeavors to do good to all mankind, we will claim for ourselves
the attention and respect which as men we should possess. So shall every good that can be the
portion of man, be ours--this life shall be happy, and the life to come, glorious.

       *       *       *       *       *

The opinion of the public regarding the celebration and performances of that day, together
with the behavior of the colored people, will be seen by the following short extract from the
Rochester Daily Advertiser, published soon after the occurrence of those events:

"ABOLITION OF SLAVERY.

"The extinction of that curse by the laws of our State, was marked with appropriate rejoicings
on the part of the African race in this neighborhood. A procession of considerable length and
respectable appearance, preceded by a band of music, moved from Brown's Island through the
principal streets to the public square, yesterday forenoon, where a stage and seats were erected,
for the speakers and audience. The throne of Grace was addressed by the Rev. Mr. Allen, a colored
clergyman. The act declaring all slaves free in this State, on the fourth day of July, 1827,
was read, which was succeeded by the reading of the Declaration of Independence and delivery
of an oration by Mr. Steward. We have heard but one opinion from several gentlemen who were
present, and that was highly complimentary to the composition and delivery of the same.

"The exercises were concluded by a short discourse from the Rev. Mr. Allen, and the procession
moved off to partake of an entertainment prepared for the occasion. The thing was got up in
good order, and passed off remarkably well. The conduct of the emancipated race was exemplary
throughout, and if their future enjoyment of freedom be tinctured with the prudence that characterised
their celebration of its attainment, the country will have no reason to mourn the philanthropy
that set them free."

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus ended our first public celebration of our own and our country's freedom. All conducted
themselves with the strictest propriety and decorum, retiring to their homes soberly and in
proper season.

CHAPTER XVIII.

CONDITION OF FREE COLORED PEOPLE.

Pursuant to a call given in the summer of 1830, by the colored residents of Philadelphia, for
a National Convention of their race, I started in company with a friend to attend it; having
previously engaged seats inside Mr. Coe's stage-coach as far as Utica, N.Y., to which place
we had paid our fare the same as other passengers.

We rode on to Auburn very pleasantly, but when at that place, we with others moved to resume
our seats; we were met by a stern rebuke for presuming to seat ourselves on the inside, and
were ordered to ride on the outside of the coach. In vain we expostulated; in vain we reminded
the driver of the agreement, and of our having paid for an inside seat; we were told to take
the outside of the coach or remain behind.

Desiring to attend the convention, we concluded to go on, submitting to this rank injustice
and dishonesty, until our return, when we determined to sue the proprietor of that line of
stages. An opportunity was offered soon after, when I commenced a suit for damages against
Mr. Sherwood, who was the great stage proprietor of those days. He, however, cleared himself
by declaring that he was in no way responsible for the failures of Mr. Coe, to whom I must
look for remuneration. I never found it convenient to sue Mr. Coe, and so the matter ended.

We passed through New York City to the place of our destination, where we found many of our
brethren already assembled.

Philadelphia, which I now saw for the first time, I thought the most beautiful and regularly
laid out city I ever beheld. Here had lived the peaceable, just, and merciful William Penn;
and here many of his adherents still reside. Here, too, was the place where the Rt. Rev. Bishop
Allen, the first colored American bishop in the United States, had labored so successfully.
When the Methodists sought to crush by cruel prejudice the poor African, he stepped boldly
forward in defence of their cause, which he sustained, with a zeal and talent ever to be revered.

Thousands were brought to a knowledge of the truth, and induced "to seek first the kingdom
of heaven and its righteousness," through his instrumentality. Through the benign influence
of this good man, friends and means were raised for his poor brethren, to build houses of worship,
where they would no more be dragged from their knees when in prayer, and told to seat themselves
by the door. Oh, how much good can one good and faithful man do, when devoted to the cause
of humanity--following in the footsteps of the blessed Christ; doing unto others as they would
be done by; and remembering those in bonds as bound with them. What though his skin be black
as ebony, if the heart of a brother beats in his bosom? Oh, that man could judge of character
as does our Heavenly Father; then would he judge righteous judgment, and cease to look haughtily
down upon his afflicted fellow, because "his skin is colored not like his own."

We convened at the specified time, and organized by appointing Rev. R. Allen, president, A.
Steward, vice-president, and J.C. Morrell, secretary. The convention which continued in session
three days, was largely attended by all classes of people, and many interesting subjects were
ably discussed; but the most prominent object was the elevation of our race. Resolutions were
passed calculated to encourage our brethren to take some action on the subjects of education
and mechanism. Agricultural pursuits were also recommended;--and here allow me to give my opinion
in favor of the latter, as a means of sustenance and real happiness.

I knew many colored farmers, all of whom are well respected in the neighborhood of their residence.
I wish I could count them by hundreds; but our people mostly flock to cities where they allow
themselves to be made "hewers of wood and drawers of water;" barbers and waiters,--when, if
they would but retire to the country and purchase a piece of land, cultivate and improve it,
they would be far richer and happier than they can be in the crowded city. It is a mistaken
idea that there is more prejudice against color in the country. True, it exists everywhere,
but I regard it less potent in the country, where a farmer can live less dependant on his oppressors.
The sun will shine, the rains descend, and the earth bring forth her increase, just as readily
for the colored agriculturist as for his pale face neighbor. Yes, and our common mother Earth
will, when life is ended, as readily open her bosom to receive your remains in a last embrace,
as that of the haughty scorner of our rights.

In the city, however, there is no escape from the crushing weight of prejudice, to ramble over
fields of your own cultivation; to forget your sorrows in the refreshing air that waves the
loaded branches of an orchard of your own planting; nor to solace yourself with a gambol over
the green meadow with your little ones. It is all toil, toil, with a burthened heart until
shadows fall across the hearth-stone, and dismal forebodings darken the fireside, from whence
the weary wife retires to refresh herself in broken slumber for the renewed toil of another
day. Will not my friends think of these and many other advantages in favor of a country life,
and practice accordingly?

After the close of the convention, I returned to my business in Rochester.

Until the discussion, which commenced about this time on the subject of temperance, I had been
engaged, as most other grocers were at that time, in the sale of spirituous liquors somewhat
extensively. My attention had never before been called especially to the subject, though I
had witnessed some of its direst evils; but now, when I saw the matter in its true light, I
resolved to give it up. I was doing well and making handsome profits on the sale of alcoholic
beverages. I had also experienced a good deal of trouble with it. My license allowed me to
sell any quantity less than five gallons; but it was a fine of twenty-five dollars if drunk
on the premises,--one half of the sum to go to the complainant. If a vicious man got out of
funds it became both easy and common for him to give some person a sixpence, half of which
was to be spent for whisky, which made him a witness for the other, who would make immediate
complaint, and collect his share of the fine. Nor could I prevent men who came with bottles,
and purchased whisky, from drinking it where they pleased; consequently I was often called
to answer to such complaints.

One morning a man entered my store and called for liquor, which the clerk gave him. After drinking
it, he went directly to the office of A. House, Esq., and entered a complaint against the clerk
who had served him; then stepped out for consultation with his counsel. At that moment I arrived
at the office of the magistrate to whom I immediately made complaint against myself, relating
to him also just how the event happened. In a few minutes the original complainant returned,
to whom 'Squire House explained that he should have arraigned the proprietor of the store,
and not the clerk as he had done. Determined on making a speculation, however, he demanded
a precept for myself. The 'Squire, laughing most heartily, informed him that he was too late,--that
Mr. Steward had the start of him, having just entered a complaint against himself, by which
he saves one half of the fine. The man walked out, looking rather "cheap," nor did he or others
annoy me afterwards by making complaints of that kind.

But now I saw, as never before, the sin of selling that which would make beasts of men, and
only stopped to inquire what was duty in the matter. All the arguments in favor of its sale
were more forcible then than now. All classes of persons used and drank the article; and it
required more moral courage, to relinquish the business than it does now. Nevertheless, it
appeared plain to my mind, that duty to God and my fellow-men required it, and I cheerfully
gave it up forever.

I could not conscientiously, nor do I see how any man can, continue to traffic in this most
fruitful source of pauperism and crime. No benefit whatever arises from its use as a beverage
or from its sale. It is a curse to the drinker, to the seller, and to the community. Those
who are licensed venders take from the government fifty dollars for every one put into the
treasury. The money paid for licenses is a very meager compensation for the beggary, crime,
and bloodshed which rum produces. All who have any knowledge of the statistics of the State,
or of our prison and police records know, that intemperance has done more to fill the prisons,
work-houses, alms-houses, and asylums of the State than all other influences combined; and
yet men uphold the traffic. Their favors are for those who love its use and sale, and their
anathemas for him, who is striving to save a nation of drunkards from swift destruction; yea,
their own sires, sons, and brothers from the grave of the inebriate.

When in Rochester a short time since, soliciting subscribers for this work, I stepped into
a distillery and asked a man to subscribe for it. He hesitated in his decision until he took
a tumbler and filling it with brandy, invited me to drink. I thanked him, saying I never drink
brandy. "Never drink!" he growled, "then I tell you, sir, that you stand a much better chance
of being struck by lightning than of getting a subscriber here." Oh, very well; most likely
had he agreed to take a copy, he would have been sorely displeased with my views of the liquor
traffic, and perhaps with the compliment I have here paid him.

But in the foregoing remarks I have said but a tithe of what my heart feels, when I think of
the sufferings occasioned by drunkenness.

Even the cup of the burthened slave, writhing in his chains and toiling under the lash, is
not full of bitterness until the demon rum throws in its dregs and fills it to overflowing.

How often does it occur that a passionate master, heated with wine,--mad with himself and all
about him, pours out his vengeful ire on the head and back of some helpless slave, and leaves
him weltering in his blood! How often may be heard the agonized wail of the slave mother, deploring
the departure of some innocent child that has been lost in gambling, while the master was intoxicated!

How often do the shrieks of the poor but virtuous slave girl, ring through the midnight air,
as she, pleading for death rather than life, rushes screaming away from a brutal master, infuriated
and drunk! If it is a fact, and certainly it is, that the master is thus affected by his costly
wine; what, think you, will be the temper and condition of the coarse and heartless overseer
who drinks his miserable whisky or bad brandy? It is horrible, beyond description. I have often
myself seen a drunken overseer, after pouring down dram after dram, mount his horse and ride
furiously among the slaves, beating, bruising, mangling with his heavy cowhide every one he
chanced to meet, until the ground presented the appearance of a battlefield.

CHAPTER XIX.

PERSECUTION OF THE COLORED PEOPLE.

While the colored population of New York were rejoicing in the measure of freedom allowed them
by the more wholesome laws of that State, our brethren in Ohio were being oppressed and maltreated
by the unjust and odious "black laws" of that professedly free State, enacted with special
reference to the disposition of the colored race.

In Cincinnati, O., within sight of the slave land of Kentucky, a terrible persecution had commenced,
and an effort was made to drive all colored persons from the place.

Our people had settled there in large numbers, but now a mob had assembled in that city with
the determination to drive them, not only from their homes and city, but from the State. A
bloody conflict ensued, in which the white and black man's blood mingled freely. So great had
been the loss of property; and go horrid and fearful had been the scene, that our people chose
to leave, rather than remain under such untoward circumstances. They lived in constant fear
of the mob which had so abused and terrified them. Families seated at the fireside started
at every breath of wind, and trembled at the sound of every approaching footstep. The father
left his family in fear, lest on his return from his daily labor, he should find his wife and
children butchered, and his house left desolate.

Meetings were held to devise plans and means for leaving the place where they had been so cruelly
treated. But where should they go? And why should they be compelled to leave the State of Ohio?
The fact is, that the African race there, as in all parts of this nominally free Republic,
was looked down upon by the white population as being little above the brute creation; or,
as belonging to some separate class of degraded beings, too deficient in intellect to provide
for their own wants, and must therefore depend on the superior ability of their oppressors,
to take care of them. Indeed, both the time and talents of eminent men have been wasted in
unsuccessful research for the line of demarcation, between the African and the highest order
of animals,--such for instance as the monkey or the ourang-outang. Some even, have advanced
the absurd idea, that wicked Cain transmitted to them the "mark" which the Almighty set upon
him for the murder of his brother; and that he, (who then must have survived the deluge), is
the progenitor of that despised and inferior race--the negro slave of the United States of America!

If it be true, that the natural inferiority of the black man, connects him so closely with
the animal creation, it looks passing strange to me that he should be made responsible for
the violation of laws which he has been declared too imbecile to aid in framing or of comprehending.
Nor is it less strange to see him enslaved and compelled by his labor to maintain both his
master and himself, after having declared him incapable of doing either. Why not let him go
then? Why hold with an unyielding grasp, so miserable and useless a piece of property? Is it
benevolence that binds him with his master's chain? Judge ye. Stranger still is the fact of
attaching such vast influence to his presence and so much concern regarding his movements,
when in a state of freedom, if indeed, he is of so little worth and consequence, and so nearly
related to the brutes that perish.

Surely, the Legislature of Ohio, or of any other State, would never feel called upon to sit
in grave counsel, for the purpose of framing laws which would impose fine and imprisonment
on a monkey, should one chance to locate within its jurisdiction; nor would they think it advisable
for the court to assemble, or a jury to be empanelled, to drive from their midst an ourang-outang.
And yet this and more must be done to get rid of the hated negro, who has been born in that
State, or has fled to it for protection from the manstealer.

When strangers pass hastily through this country, and after a careless glance at the colored
population, report them to be "an indolent, improvident, and vicious class of persons," they
should consider some of the many obstacles thrown in the way of the most favored of that race.
Knowing as they do, the rigor of the law, and feeling as they do, the oppressive power of prejudice,
it becomes almost impossible for them to rise to that station they were designed to fill, and
for which their natural abilities as certainly qualify them, as though they had never been
robbed of their God-given rights. But let us return to our tried friends in Cincinnati.

They finally resolved to collect what they could of their possessions and establish a colony
in Canada. In accordance with this resolution, they agreed to first send an agent to obtain
liberty to settle there, and if successful to select and purchase a large tract of land, making
such arrangements as he thought best for their speedy removal to their new home. Israel Lewis
was their appointed agent, who departed immediately for Upper Canada to perform his mission;
and there for the present we will leave him and return to Rochester.

Our more favored brethren in New York felt a deep sympathy for their outraged countrymen in
Cincinnati; a sympathy equaled only by their indignation at the cause of such demand.

A meeting expressive of their views and feelings on that subject, was convened in the city
of Rochester during which, the following preamble and resolutions were read and unanimously
adopted:

Whereas, The city of Cincinnati has again become the scene of another dreadful mob and bloodshed,
where nothing but terror and confusion reigned for a number of hours together.

And Whereas, Our brethren and fellow citizens were left exposed to the fury of an ungovernable
mob, made up of the base, the ignorant, and vile, the very dregs of society; and probably led
on by slaveholders, who of all men are the most execrable; while boasting of liberty, he tramples
on the dearest rights of men and in the greatest robber of it on earth.

Resolved, That we deprecate an appeal to arms by any class of our fellow citizens, except in
extreme cases, and we think that such a case has been presented in the late outrage at Cincinnati.

Resolved, That when a class of men so far forget the duty they owe to God, their fellow men,
and their country, as to trample under their feet the very laws they have made, and are in
duty bound to obey and execute, we believe it to be the duty of our brethren and fellow citizens,
to protect their lives against such lawless mobs; and if in the conflict, any of the mobocrats
perish, every good citizen should say Amen.

Resolved, That we do truly sympathize with the friends of God's poor; the friends of the oppressed,
throughout this boasted land of liberty, in the losses they have sustained in consequence of
the mob.

Resolved, That we believe the time is not far distant, when the Queen City of the West, shall
be redeemed from the hateful influence of the slaveholder; redeemed from that cruel prejudice
of caste which, hangs like a mill-stone around the neck of our people; redeemed from all those
unequal laws, which have a tendency to make the strong stronger and the weak weaker; redeemed
from their falsehearted friends, whose sarcastic smile is more to be feared than the frowns
of an open enemy.

Resolved, That the untiring exertions of our friends, and the indefatigable industry of our
brethren, are sure guarantees that the State of Ohio will not long be what she now is,--a hissing
and by-word on account of her iniquitous laws; but that she will rise above every narrow minded
prejudice, and raise up her sable sons and daughters and place them on an equality with the
rest of her citizens.

Resolved, That we deeply deplore the loss our friends have sustained in the destruction of
their printing press in Cincinnati.

Resolved, That we as an oppressed people, feel it our duty to give our undivided support to
the press and the laborers in our cause.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Israel Lewis made his way to Canada, and having obtained permission to establish a colony,
he bargained with the Canada Company for one township of land, for which he agreed to pay the
money demanded, in a few days, and then returned to Cincinnati, by way of Rochester. The poor,
persecuted colored people, had in the mean time made ready for their flight from their homes,
their native land, and from this boasted free Republic, to seek a residence in the cold and
dreary wilds of Canada; to claim that protection from the English government which had been
denied them in the land of their birth; and like the overtasked Israelites, "they went out
with their wives and their little ones," but with smaller possessions.

During the stay of Mr. Lewis in Rochester, he reported there and elsewhere, that eleven hundred
persons were then in the dense woods of Canada in a state of actual starvation, and called
upon the humane everywhere, to assist them in such extreme suffering.

To me he also told the story of their destitution, which affected me deeply. I had at that
time just made a public profession of my faith in the Christian religion and my determination
to be governed by its holy precepts, I felt for the distressed and suffering everywhere; but
particularly for those who had fled, poor and destitute, from cruel task-masters, choosing
rather the sufferings of cold and hunger, with liberty, than the meager necessities of life
and Slavery. I concluded to go to Canada and try to do some good; to be of some little service
in the great cause of humanity.

As soon as practicable therefore, I left Rochester for Toronto, the capital of Upper Canada,
which I found quite a thriving town, and containing some fine brick buildings, and some I saw
were built of mud, dried in the sun, wearing rather a poor than pretty appearance. At Toronto
we hired a team to take us on to Ancaster, fifty miles distant. We traveled now through a new
country; the roads were very bad, and the inhabitants few. We, however, reached Ancaster, a
small village, where we remained one night and next morning pursued our journey to the settlement
of the poor fugitives from Cincinnati. After some hard traveling, we finally arrived at the
place where we found our brethren, it is true, but in quite destitute circumstances. Our fare
was poor indeed, but as good as they could get. The township was one unbroken wilderness when
purchased for the colony, and of course their lands must be cleared of the heavy timber before
crops could be got in, hence, there was a great deal of destitution and suffering before their
harvest could ripen after the land was prepared for the seed.

The day after I arrived at the settlement, which consisted of a few rude log cabins, a meeting
was called to give the township a name. Several were suggested, but I at length motioned to
name it in honor of the great philanthropist, Wilberforce. This was carried, and the township
from that time has been known by that name. It is situated on what is known as the Huron Tract,
Kent County, London District, and is the next north of the township of London. Our neighbors
on the south, were a company of Irish people, who owned the township, and on the west side
were a township of Welshmen, a hardy, industrious and enterprising people.

In Wilberforce there were no white inhabitants; the land appeared level and handsome, with
but one stream of any magnitude running through it; this was the Oxsable, which was dry during
a part of the year. All was one vast forest of heavy timber, that would compare well with that
of Western New York. Beech, maple, ash, elm, oak, whitewood, bass, balm of gilead, &c. The
soil was good for corn, wheat, rye, oats, and most kinds of the grain and vegetables raised
in New York, and was a superior grazing country, about fifteen miles from London. This was
a village containing perhaps thirty dwellings, and two hundred inhabitants; a court-house and
jail all under one roof, built of stone and plastered; small doors and windows in the style
of some of the old English castles. London was built in the forks, or between the east and
west branches of the river Thames; hence, you would hear people speak of "going to the forks,"
instead of the village; it is about two hundred miles from Buffalo, and the nearest port between
the two is Port Stanley, thirty miles from London.

I returned from Canada, where I had seen an oppressed people struggling with the hardships
and privations of a new settlement; I had seen wretchedness in some places, but by no means
sufficient to justify the report made by Mr. Lewis, and I determined I would remove there with
my family, and do all in my power to assist the colored people in Canada.

I had witnessed a disposition on the part of some to prevent our brethren from settling in
Wilberforce, while the colonizationists made a grand argument of it in favor of their wicked
policy. All must see that it became a necessity with those who fled to Canada to save themselves
from constant abuse or from Slavery, and in some instances their lives; and not because they
admitted the justice of one portion of American citizens driving another from their native
land; nor their right to colonize them anywhere on the habitable globe.

All these things taken into consideration, determined me to join them in the enterprize of
building up an asylum for the oppressed, where our colored friends could obtain a home, and
where, by their industry they could obtain a competency for themselves, besides providing a
safe retreat for the weary fugitive from Slavery; guiding by its beacon light of liberty, the
destitute and oppressed everywhere, to home and plenty.

I felt willing to make any sacrifice in my power to serve my Lord, by administering to the
necessities of my down-trodden countrymen. How far my desire has been accomplished God only
knows, but I do know that the purest motives influenced me, and an honest purpose directed
my steps in removing to Wilberforce. Not so with all, however. Some there were, Judas-like,
who "cared not for the poor; but because he was a thief and had the bag, and bore what was
put therein," made great exertions for a time in favor of the settlement. It too soon became
apparent that to make money was the prominent object with by far too great a number of the
colonists; hence, our future difficulties.

CHAPTER XX.

REMOVAL TO CANADA.

In 1830, I closed my business in Rochester, preparatory to leaving for Canada. Some of my friends
thought I had better remain in the States and direct emigrants to Wilberforce; while others
were certain I could benefit them more by going myself at once,--the latter I had determined
to do; but as the time drew near for me to start, an unaccountable gloominess and forebodings
of evil took possession of my mind. Doubts of the practicability of the undertaking began to
arise, though nothing unfavorable had occurred. To the throne of grace, I often bore the subject
and besought my Heavenly Father to enlighten my mind, and direct my steps in duty's path regarding
it; but to confess the truth, I never received any great encouragement from that source, though
it occupied my mind constantly. During the hours of slumber I was continually being startled
by frightful dreams,--sometimes I thought I saw a monstrous serpent as large as a log stretched
across the road between Rochester and the Genesee River; at another I thought myself in the
air so high that I could have a full view of the shores of Lake Ontario, and they were alive
with snakes; and then I saw a large bird like an eagle, rise up out of the water and fly toward
the south.

Notwithstanding these omens, I turned my steps toward Wilberforce. In May, 1831, we bid adieu
to our friends in Rochester, and taking passage to Buffalo on a canal boat, we arrived in due
time, and from whence we sailed for Port Stanley, or as it is sometimes called, Kettle Creek.
It took a week to make this trip, which, with favorable wind might have been made in two days.
The mouth of the creek makes a safe harbor at that place, where there is also a dock, one ware-house
and several farm houses. The place was then very wild and picturesque in its appearance; we
did not stop long, however, to admire its beauty, but engaged a farmer to take us on to London.

Ten miles on our way, and we came to a newly laid out village, called St. Thomas, from whence
we pursued our journey through a new country to London, where we arrived tired and hungry,
and put up for the night with a Mr. Faden. There I purchased a span of horses for one hundred
and fifty dollars, and putting them before a new lumber wagon brought on from Rochester, we
started for our wild and new home in good spirits, at which we arrived in good time.

The colony was comprised of some fourteen or fifteen families, and numbered some over fifty
persons in all. The first business done after my arrival, was to appoint a board of managers,
to take the general oversight of all the public business of the colony. The board consisted
of seven men, chosen by the settlers, and as I was now one of them, they gave me the office
of President. It was also resolved by the board, to send out two agents for the purpose of
soliciting aid for the erection of houses for worship, and for the maintenance of schools in
the colony.

The Rev. N. Paul was chosen one of their agents, and he received from me a power of attorney,
authorising him to collect funds for the above purposes in England, Ireland, and Scotland;
the other, I. Lewis was empowered to solicit and collect funds for the same objects in the
United States.

Preparations were immediately made to fit Mr. Paul out for his mission to England, from whence
he was to remit any funds he might receive to Arthur Tappan, of New York City; first to pay
for his outfit, and afterwards to the treasurer of the board of managers, for the support of
schools in Wilberforce. Mr. Paul, however, still lacked money to proceed to England, and therefore
went to Rochester, where he found my old and tried friend Everard Peck; who was ever known
as the poor man's friend, and the support of the weak everywhere. To this good man, whose memory
is still dear to thousands, Mr. Paul showed his power of attorney, at the same time informing
him of the condition and wants of the colony; and as was ever his wont, when help was needed,
his purse, (though not one of the heaviest), was at his service. Through the kind influence
of Mr. Peck, and some of the colored friends in that city, a note for seven hundred dollars
was drawn up, signed by Mr. P. and cashed at the Bank, which enabled the agent to make the
voyage without further delay. He reached England, and collected quite large sums of money,
but entirely failed in the remittance of any sums, either to Mr. Tappan or myself. When the
note of seven hundred dollars became due, Mr. Peck was obliged to pay, and lose it. It was
out of my power, nor had any of the friends the means to do any thing towards paying it, inasmuch
as they had assisted Paul all they could and got nothing in return. There was one thing, however,
that the reverend gentleman did do,--he wrote me from time to time, to keep me advised of the
success of his mission, and once informed me that he had then twelve hundred dollars on hand;
but not a farthing could we get. We wrote him again and again, reminding him of the bank debt,
and the uneasiness of his friends on account of it, but all to no purpose,--the Atlantic was
between us, and he was making money too easily, to like to be interrupted. He never paid one
dollar.

Let us now look after the other agent, who had likewise been fitted out, to prosecute his mission
in the States. That he collected money professedly for the assistance of the colony, is too
well known to require proof, but how much, we could not determine; we had reason to believe,
however, that he retained quite a large sum. He would neither pay it over to the board, nor
give any account of his proceedings. Very little did he ever pay over to the aid of the colony
as designed. He was frequently written to, and every means in our power used, to induce him
to give some account of his mission, but in vain; he would do nothing of the kind. Things went
on in this way for two years, when it became evident that he had no intention of satisfying
the minds of the settlers; and farther, that he meant to collect what he could, and use it
as he pleased. We learned too, that when abroad, he lived extravagantly,--putting up at the
most expensive hotels, giving parties, and doing many things, not only beyond his means, but
that brought dishonor on the cause and colony. When he returned to the settlement, he would,
if he had funds, make presents to his particular friends instead of paying it to the treasurer,
as he was pledged to do, until the majority of the colony became thoroughly disgusted with
his heartlessness and dishonesty. It was also perceivable that Lewis and Paul both, were getting
weary of the solicitations of the board and complaints of the settlers, and were anxious to
be rid of them, and enjoy their ill gotten gains in their own way.

It was never intended by the managers, to send out agents to beg money to be divided among
the colonists; but to support schools, &c. Most of the settlers were able to work and did so;
and were now getting along quite pleasantly.

Finally, after we had tried every means in vain, to get a settlement with Lewis, and to obtain
his papers, there was nothing more we could do, but to warn the public against him, by publishing
the facts in the case; this we did in various newspapers of Canada and in the States. An article
inserted in the "Rochester Observer," to that effect, was like throwing a lighted match into
a keg of powder. The excitement was intense on the part of Lewis and his friends, who were
joined by the friends of N. Paul, to destroy, if they could, the board of managers. I, however,
being the only member of that devoted board, who happened to be extensively known in the States,
their anathemas were all poured out on me, and all their energies brought forward to insure
my destruction. They were few in number, it is true, but they had money, and I had little to
spend in litigation; besides, Lewis was in debt, and his creditors did not like to see his
means of paying them swept away. The Canadians seemed to think there was no harm done if Lewis
did get money out of the "Yankees," as long as it came into their hands at last, and so, on
the whole, they raised a tremendous storm, designed, however, to sweep nobody away but myself;
and I have continued to this day, notwithstanding all their artful malignity. Nothing, I am
persuaded, could have saved me from imprisonment at that time, had I not possessed a high reputation
for truth and honesty during my previous sojourn in the colony.

Lewis had dealt somewhat extensively with Mr. Jones, who was the principal agent for the Canada
Company; but failing to fulfil his agreement, regarding the payment for a large tract of land,
it so exasperated Mr. Jones, that he declared he would have nothing to do with any of the colored
people; and so when I wanted to buy a lot of land, he would not sell it to me because he so
despised Lewis.

How much harm can one wicked man do! and yet it cannot be right to judge the character of a
whole class or community by that of one person.

CHAPTER XXI.

ROUGHING IT IN THE WILDS OF CANADA.

The "Canada Company," of which I have so frequently spoken, was an association of wealthy gentlemen,
residing in England; something like the East India Company, especially regarding the title
of lands. They had sent on their agent and purchased a large tract of land known as the "Huron
Tract," extending from London to Lake Huron, where they laid out a village, named Goderich,
sixty miles distant from Wilberforce. With this company, Mr. Lewis had contracted for a township
of land, as agent for the Cincinnati refugees; but failing to meet the demand, the company
kindly extended the time of payment; but when that time also passed without receiving any thing
from Lewis, the general agent, Mr. Jones became so indignant, that he utterly refused to sell
a foot of land to any colored person whatever. This proved to be one of the greatest detriments
to the prosperity of the colony it ever met.

The Society of Friends at this time, however, with commendable sympathy for the oppressed and
abused colored residents of Cincinnati, and with their proverbial liberality, raised a sum
of money sufficient to purchase eight hundred acres of land of the Canada Company for the benefit
of the colony. The funds were placed in the hands of one of their number, Frederick Stover,
who went to Canada as their agent, purchased the land, and settled colored people upon it,
which comprised nearly all of the Wilberforce settlement. This occurred before I settled in
Canada, and the consequence was, when I desired to purchase land, none could be obtained. At
the time, however, of which I am speaking, the Canada Company were constructing a road through
their possessions, some seventy miles in length, and the principal contractor, Mr. Ingersoll,
had agreed to take land in part payment for his services on the road. In accordance with this
agreement, he accepted one lot of land situated within the Wilberforce settlement, which he
agreed to sell to Mr. Lewis for twenty-five dollars. Mr. Lewis, knowing that I was anxious
to purchase, accepted the offer, and then came and showed the contract, offering it to me on
condition that I paid him the twenty-five dollars which he had just paid Mr. Ingersoll. This
I was glad to do; I paid the demand; took an assignment on the back of the receipt, and passed
into immediate possession of the land. He at the same time requested me to take up a note of
twenty-five dollars for him; which I did, on his promising to refund the money in a short time.

I commenced laboring on the wild land I had purchased; cleared some ten acres, which in consequence
of its being so heavily timbered, cost me at least twenty-five dollars per acre; built a house
and barn--supposing myself its legal possessor,--until I chanced to meet Mr. Ingersoll, who
informed me that Mr. Jones had refused to sell him the land to be disposed of to a colored
person; that he had duly informed Lewis of the fact, and had returned to him the twenty-five
dollars received. Not a word of this, had Lewis communicated to me, though he knew I was making
expensive improvements, in the faith that I was its only owner. Instead of atoning for the
wrong already done me, he made it the basis of a deeper injury.

After one year's residence in Wilberforce, I found it necessary to return to Rochester to settle
some unfinished business; and when on my way thither I stopped at London, where I found Lewis,
who had not only preceded me but had taken out a capias, for forty pounds currency. I was therefore
obliged to get bail for my appearance at court, after which I pursued my journey.

On my arrival in Rochester, I found business at a stand; and the community in a state of excitement
and alarm, on account of that fell destroyer, the cholera. This was its first visit to the
United States, and the fearful havoc it was making, spread terror and consternation throughout
the land. I returned to Canada; but found on my arrival at London, that "the pestilence that
walketh at noon-day," had preceded me, and taken from that village my friend, Mr. Ingersoll,
with several others. So great had been the alarm, that instead of my appearing at court as
I expected to do, I found it adjourned, and the judge returned to his home.

I hastened on to Wilberforce, which had fortunately escaped the fearful scourge, with terrible
apprehensions.

Having a little spare time, I went out with my rifle, in search of deer; but soon came upon
a large wolf, which I wounded with the first shot; he, however, sprang aside and was gone.
On looking about for him I espied another!--reloading my rifle, I fired, and he fell dead at
my feet, while my dog at the same time I heard barking furiously. Having dispatched this second
intruder, I saw that my dog had the first one, entangled in the branches of a fallen tree.
I searched for my balls, and was vexed to find that I had left them at home. In this predicament
I cut with my knife, a knot from a beech limb, put it in my rifle, and took deadly aim at the
enraged wolf. The wooden ball struck him between the eyes and killed him on the spot.

The two dead animals, with their skins, I sold for nine dollars and a half,--making pretty
good wages for a few hours labor.

Hunting was very generally pursued by the settlers, with great earnestness and considerable
skill. The forest abounded with deer, wolves, bears, and other wild animals. Bears were plenty,
and very troublesome because so dangerously tame. One day, our children had built for themselves
a play-house, a few rods from the door, and were enjoying their play when they were called
in to dinner. A moment after, I observed one of the settlers gazing intently at the play-house;
I called to know what so attracted his attention, and he informed me that an old bear, with
three cubs, had just then taken possession of the playhouse. And sure enough there they were!
knocking about among the dishes, and munching the crumbs of bread which the children had left.
The man was supplied with a loaded rifle and urged to shoot them, but he begged to be excused
from a pitched battle with so many; and the bears leisurely took their departure for the woods
without molestation. The play-house, however, was soon deserted by the children after these
unbidden guests had made so free with it; and we were ourselves somewhat alarmed for the safety
of our children, who were accustomed to roam in the edge of the forest, and make swings of
the luxuriant grape vines.

But such incidents are common in a new country, surrounded as we were by a dense wilderness.

CHAPTER XXII.

NARROW ESCAPE OF A SMUGGLER.

From the time I first settled in Wilberforce, my house had ever been open to travelers and
strangers; but a conversation I happened to overhear, led me to take a course different from
what I had at first intended. I was at a public house about twenty miles from home, when I
heard the landlord advising his guest to eat heartily, for, said he, "you will find nothing
more worthy of your attention, until you reach Wilberforce. When you arrive at that settlement,
inquire for A. Steward, from the States, and he will give you a meal fit for a prince." I began
to reflect on the subject and concluded, inasmuch as people would send company to me, it would
be better to make some preparation for entertaining them. I had plenty of furniture, and all
I needed was a larger supply of food, to commence keeping a tavern. This was easily obtained,
and I opened a public house which was well patronized.

One day while I was absent from home, a man drove to the door the finest span of horses, I
think I ever saw,--black as jet, with proudly arched necks, and glossy tails that nearly swept
the ground. The gentleman sprang from his carriage, bounded through the open door, and in the
most excited manner, began to inquire "who owns this establishment? When will he return? Can
I be accommodated? Can I see your barn?" &c. The stable boy took him to the barn, from whence
he soon returned; his face flushed, and breathing so heavily as to be heard all through the
apartment; trembling so violently that he could scarcely speak at all,--but made out to inquire,
"if there was not some place besides the barn where he could put his horses?" He was told that
there was a small shelter built for cows, in bad weather, and the next moment he was examining
it. In a very short time he had his horses and carriage stowed away in the cow-shed. He acted
like a crazy man; but when he had secured his horses, he re-entered the house and frankly apologized
for his conduct. "I may as well tell you the truth," said he; "I am suspected of smuggling
goods; a reward is offered for my arrest, and the constables are on my track, in pursuit of
me. My name is Cannouse, and I am from M----, in Ontario County."

But perhaps they can not prove you guilty of smuggling, said I, in an after conversation.

"Ah," said he, "there is for me no such hope or probability; I have been engaged for the last
few months in the sale of dress-goods and broad-cloths, and my exposure and flight is the consequence
of my own folly. While in the village of St. Catharines, I took a young girl out to ride, after
she had engaged to accompany another young fellow, which of course offended him; and he being
too well posted up on my affairs, went directly to the custom house officer and informed against
me. I was sitting in the parlor, perfectly at ease, when a young man, a relative of the young
lady in question, burst into the room, shouting, 'Fly! fly! for your life! The officers are
upon you!' And I did fly; with barely time to reach the woods, for as I sprang through the
back door, the officers entered through the front door. My horses were my first consideration;
they had been raised by my father, and should I lose them, I should never dare to meet him
again. In my hasty flight, I engaged the young man to conceal them till night, and then to
drive them to a certain place where I would meet him. This he did, and I kept on my flight
until I came to the house of a friend, where I halted to make inquiries. The gentleman had
just come from London, and had seen handbills at every conspicuous place, describing me and
my horses. I asked him what I should do? He said, 'you are not safe a moment; there is no hope
but in flight; avoid the main road, and get to the colony if you can; if you succeed, go to
A. Steward; he is an upright man and will never betray you for money,' And here I am: if I
am arrested, six months imprisonment, three hundred dollars fine, and the forfeiture of my
father's valuable and favorite horses, will be my portion. I have had no regular meal for the
last three days, and my head aches violently."

We gave him some refreshment, and conducted him to a room, assuring him that he should have
it to himself. All remained quiet until midnight, when a man knocked cautiously at our door.
I opened it myself, and a gentleman, looking carefully about the place, inquired,

"Are you full?"

"No," said I.

"Have you any travelers here to night?"

"Yes."

"How many?"

"Two."

"Where are they?"

"In this room; walk in, sir."

He took the light from my hand, and stepping lightly up to a bed, where two travelers were
quietly sleeping, he closely examined their faces. He soon returned the light, and without
further inquiry retired from the house. When his companions came up, I distinctly heard him
tell them that the smuggler was not there.

"You may be mistaken," said the other, "and we must search the barn for his horses."

This they did thoroughly, after procuring a lantern; but without finding any thing to reward
their diligent search; and they finally drove off.

When they had gone, Cannouse groaned most bitterly, and trembled from head to foot at the thought
of his narrow escape. The next day an officer rode up to where the children were playing, with
a handbill which he read, and inquired if they had seen a person bearing that description,
pass that day? They answered negatively, and he rode on. The poor frightened Cannouse stayed
with us a week; and nearly every day during the time, the house and barn were searched for
him. The children kept watch, and when they saw any one coming they would let him know, in
time to take himself and horses into a thicket near by. When he thought pursuit was over, he
started to leave; but when, in a half hour after, a posse of men drove up to my door, flourishing
their handbills, I thought it all over with Cannouse. I told them that he was not there; but
they chose to have another search, and when they found nothing, the officer sprang into his
carriage, exclaiming, "come on, boys; we'll soon have him now; we have tracked him here, and
he can't be far off."

Cannouse had left us, feeling quite secure; but he had traveled but a short distance, when
he observed a horse shoe loose, and to get it fastened he drove down to a blacksmith's shop,
which happened to stand at the foot of a hill; and between it and the highway there had been
left standing a clump of trees which nearly hid it from view. While there, getting his horse
shod, the officers passed him unobserved, and he finally escaped.

Some time after, a gentleman called on us who had seen Cannouse in Michigan, where he was doing
well. He had succeeded in reaching Detroit, from whence he passed safely to his home; but probably
learned a lesson not to be forgotten. He was a talented young man--one who would have felt
deeply the disgrace of imprisonment,--and it was indeed a pleasure to me to do what I could,
to effect his release from an unenviable position. I would never have betrayed him; but happily
I was not asked directly for him, until he was gone from my house and protection.

CHAPTER XXIII.

NARRATIVE OF TWO FUGITIVES FROM VIRGINIA.

The settlers in Wilberforce, were in general, industrious and thrifty farmers: they cleared
their land, sowed grain, planted orchards, raised cattle, and in short, showed to the world
that they were in no way inferior to the white population, when given an equal chance with
them. In proof of this let me say, that it was uniformly the practice of persons traveling
from London to Goderich, to remain in our settlement over night, in preference to going on
to find entertainment among their own class of people. And we believe that the whites are bound
to admit, that the experiment of the Wilberforce colony proves that the colored man can not
only take care of himself, but is capable of improvement; as industrious and intelligent as
themselves, when the yoke is taken from off their necks, and a chance given them to exercise
their abilities. True, many of them had just escaped from cruel task-masters; ignorant of almost
every thing but the lash,--but the air of freedom so invigorated and put new life into their
weary bodies, that they soon became intelligent and thrifty.

Among the settlers might be gathered many a thrilling narrative, of suffering and hair-breadth
escapes from the slave-land,--one of which I will tell as 'twas told to me.

In a small rude cabin, belonging to one of the large plantations in Virginia, sat at a late
hour of the night, an afflicted slave-man and his devoted wife, sad and weeping. At length
the husband repeated what he before had been saying:

"I tell you, wife, we must flee from this place, without delay. Oh, I cannot endure the idea
of seeing you sold for the Southern market, to say nothing of myself; and we shall most likely
be separated, which I can't bear! Oh, Rosa, the thought distracts me,--I can't bear it!"

"Are you sure," said Rosa, "that master thinks of such a frightful doom for us?"

"Oh yes, I know it; I heard master to-day making a bargain with the slave dealer that has been
hanging about here so long; and when it was finished, I heard him reading over the list, and
our names, wife, are the first on it."

"Oh, dear!" sobbed the wife, "we shall certainly be retaken and whipped to death; or else we
shall starve in the wilderness! Oh, it is very hard to be compelled to leave all our friends
and the old plantation where we were born!"

"Yes; it is both hard and unjust," said Joe, and an indignant frown contracted his brow,--"here
is our birth-place, and here, for forty years have I toiled early and late to enrich my master;
and you, my poor wife, a few years less; and now we are to be sold, separated, and all without
a choice of our own. We must go, Rosa. If we die, let us die together!"

"It shall be as you say, Joe," she replied, "but it frightens me to think of the hardships
of the way, and the danger of being recaptured."

"Courage, wife: no fate can be worse than the one designed for us; and we have no time to lose.
Tomorrow night, then, we must make the first effort to gain our liberty, and leave all that
is dear to us except each other!" And they retired to rest, but not to sleep.

The following night was very dark; and as soon as all was quiet on the plantation, they stole
out of their cabin and stealthily crept over the ground until they reached the highway; and
then, guided only by the north star, they made their way to the nearest woods. So fearful had
they been of being suspected, that they took no provision of any kind with them. All night
they plunged forward through the tangled thicket and under-brush, surrounded by thick darkness,
glancing now and then upward to their only light,

  "Star of the North! though night winds drift the fleecy
     drapery of the sky,

   Between thy lamp and thee, I lift, yea, lift with hope
     my sleepless eye."

When day dawned they threw their weary bodies on the ground, famished and thirsty, and waited
for the darkness to again conceal them while they pursued their journey. The second day of
their flight, the pain of hunger became almost beyond endurance. They found a few roots which
relieved them a little; but frequently they lost their way, and becoming bewildered, knew not
which way to go; they pushed on, however, determined to keep as far from their pursuers as
possible. Their shoes were soon worn out; but bare-footed, bare-headed, and famishing with
hunger, they pressed forward, until the fourth day, when they found themselves too weak to
proceed farther. Hope, the anchor of the soul, had failed them! They were starving in a dense
forest! No track or path could they find, and even had they seen a human being, they would
have been more terrified than at the sight of a wild beast!

Poor Rosa, could go no farther--her strength was all gone--and as her emaciated husband laid
her on the cold earth, he exclaimed, "Oh, dear God! must we, after all our efforts, starve
in this dark wilderness! Beside his fainting wife, he finally stretched himself, sheltered
only by a few bushes, and tried to compose himself to die! but resting a few moments revived
him, and he aroused himself, to make one more effort for life! Stay you here, wife, and I will
try once more to find the highway; it cannot be far from here; and if I am taken, I will submit
to my fate without a struggle; we can but die." So saying, he left her, and began to reconnoitre
the country around them. Much sooner than he expected he emerged from the wood, and not far
distant he saw a house in the direction from whence he came; being, however, as most of the
slaves are, superstitious, he thought it would be a bad omen to turn backward, and so continued
to look about him. It seemed, he said, that some unseen power held him, for though starving
as he was, he could not take a step in that direction; and at last as he turned around, to
his great joy, he saw another dwelling a little way off, and toward that he hastened his now
lightened footsteps. With a palpitating heart, he approached the door and knocked cautiously.
The man of the house opened it, and as soon as he saw him, he said, "You are a fugitive slave,
but be not alarmed, come in; no harm shall befall you here; I shall not inquire from whence
you came; it is enough for me to know that you are a human being in distress; consider me your
friend, and let me know your wants."

"Bread! Oh, for a morsel of bread!" said the famished creature, while his hitherto wild and
sunken eyes, began to distil grateful tears. The "good Samaritan" stepped to another apartment
and brought him a piece of bread, which he expected to see him devour at once, but instead,
he looked at it wistfully, literally devouring it with his eyes; turned it over and over, and
at last stammered out, "my good master, without a piece of bread for my poor starving wife,
I can never swallow this, tempting as it is."

"Poor man," said his benefactor, "can it be that you have a wife with you, wretched as yourself?"
He brought out a loaf of bread, some cheese and meat, and while the fugitive was preparing
to return, the kind gentleman said, "I am glad you came to me; had you called at the house
you first saw, you would have been betrayed, and immediately arrested. You must remember,"
he continued, "that you are young and valuable slaves, and that your master will make every
effort in his power to find you, especially since he has made a sale of you. To-day and to-night,
remain in the woods, and the next morning you may come to me, if all is quiet; should I see
danger approaching you, I will warn you of it by the crack my rifle. Go now, to your poor wife,
and listen for the signal of danger; if you hear none, come to me at the appointed time." He
returned, and after feeding his helpless Rosa, she revived, and soon felt quite comfortable
and grateful.

When the morning came for them to leave their retreat, they listened intently, but hearing
nothing, Joe started for the residence of his friend. He had been gone but a short time, when
his wife, who lay in the bushes, thought she heard the tramp of horses,--she crept nearer the
highway, and peeping through the bush--Oh, horror! what was her consternation and sickening
fear, to find herself gazing upon the well-known features of her old master, and two of his
neighbors, all armed to the teeth! Her heart seemed to stand still, and the blood to chill
in her veins. Had she been discovered she would have been an easy prey, for she declared that
she could not move a step. In the meantime her husband had got about half way to the residence
of his preserver, when his quick ear detected the sound made by the feet of horses, and as
he stopped to listen more intently, the sharp crack of a rifle sent him bounding back to his
concealment in the forest.

The party of horsemen rode on to the dwelling of the kind hearted gentleman, and inquired whether
he had seen any fugitive slaves pass that way.

"I saw," said he, "a man and woman passing rapidly along the road, but do not know whether
they were fugitives, as I did not see their faces." The human blood-hound, thanked the gentleman
for the information, and immediately set out in pursuit; but, just as the informant had intended,
in a direction opposite to that the slaves had taken. That night, Joe and Rosa visited the
house of their benefactor, where they were supplied with clothing and as much food as they
could carry; and next day they went on their way rejoicing. They settled in Cincinnati, where
they lived happily, until the mob drove them with others, to the Wilberforce settlement, where
they are in no danger of the auction block, or of a Southern market; and are as much devoted
to each other as ever.

CHAPTER XXIV.

PLEASANT RE-UNION OF OLD AND TRIED FRIENDS.

It is well known to those who have assisted in clearing land in a new country, that bears,
who are not Jews, are very troublesome, and levy a heavy tax on the settlers, to supply themselves
with pork-their favorite food. One old bear in particular, had for a long time annoyed the
colonists, by robbing their hog-stys almost every night. We failed in all our plans to destroy
his life, until a woman saw him one day, walking at ease through the settlement. A half dozen
of us gave chase immediately, and came up with him after traveling two miles. So anxious was
I to kill him, that I fired at first sight and missed him, which gave us another two miles
chase. When, however, we came up, he was seated on a branch of a tree, leisurely surveying
us and the dogs, with great complacency. The contents of my rifle brought him to the ground,
and stirred his blood for battle. One blow from his powerful paw, sent my fine greyhound some
yards distant, sprawling upon the ground, and when he renewed the attack, Bruin met him with
extended jaws, taking and munching his head in his mouth. My rifle was now reloaded, and the
second shot killed him on the spot. We tied his legs together, and lifting him on a pole, marched
in triumph into the settlement, where guns were discharged and cheers given, in approbation
of our success.

One winter's evening we had drawn closely around the blazing fire, for the air was piercing
cold without, and the snow four feet deep on a level. Now and then, a traveler might be seen
on snow-shoes; but though our cabin was situated on the king's highway, we seldom saw company
on such a night as this. While the wind whistled, and the snow drifted about our dwelling,
we piled the wood higher in our ample fire-place, and seated ourselves again, to resume the
conversation, when I was startled by a loud and furious knocking at the door. I opened it to
what I supposed to be three Indians. Their costume was that of the red man; but the voice of
him who addressed me was not that of an Indian. "Can you keep three poor devils here to-night?"
said he, and when I made farther inquiry, he repeated the same question; "we can sleep," he
continued, "on the soft side of a board; only give us poor devils a shelter."

I told him we were not accustomed to turn away any one on such a night; that they were welcome
to come in; and they were soon seated around our large and cheerful fire.

They had laid aside their snow-shoes and knapsacks, and the heat of the fire soon made their
blankets uncomfortable; but as one of them made a move to throw it off, another was heard to
whisper, "wait a little; we are among strangers, you know; so do not make a display of yourself."
The fellow drew his blanket about him; but we had heard and seen enough to awaken curiosity,
if not suspicion. In passing out of the room soon after, I heard one of these pretended Indians
say to his companion, "I know these folks are from the States, for I smell coffee." When they
finally sat down to table, and saw silver upon it, they cast surprised and knowing glances
at each other, all of which we closely observed, and were convinced, that they were not red
men of the forest, but belonged to that race who had so long looked haughtily down upon the
colored people; that the least exhibition of comfort, or show of refinement astonished them
beyond measure.

In the meantime, my wife had whispered to me that she was sure that the principal speaker was
no other than the aristocratic Mr. G----, of Canandaigua. I could not believe it; I could not
recognize in that savage costume, one who had been bred in affluence, and "the star" of genteel
society. But my wife soon developed the affair to our mutual satisfaction: G----, on taking
from her a cup of coffee, remarked, "this looks good; and I have had no good coffee since I
left my mother's house."

"Does your mother still reside in C----?" asked Mrs. Steward.

"My mother! my mother! what do you know of my mother!" said he, looking sharply at her; but
observing that they were recognized, they began to laugh, and we had a hearty congratulation
all round; while G----, starting-up from table, exclaimed,

"Come, boys, off with this disguise; we are among friends now."

Our Indian guests, now appeared in costume more like "Broadway dandies," than savages. Dressed
in the finest cloth, with gold chains and repeaters; and all that constituted the toilet of
a gentleman. After tea they requested to dry some costly furs, which they took from their knapsacks
and hung around the fire. The following day they took their leave, with many apologies and
explanations, regarding their appearance and conduct. They were in the wilderness, they said,
trading for very valuable furs; they had money, jewelry and rich goods, which they had taken
that method to conceal.

During all this time, there had been another visitor in the house, who was sitting in a corner,
absorbed in writing. Our mock Indians had noticed him, and not knowing who he was, expressed
a determination "to quiz that deaf old devil," after supper. We all seated ourselves around
the fire, and our Canandaigua friends, though no longer savages, had not forgotten the silent
man in the corner; they began to question him, and he aroused himself for conversation; nor
was it long before they forgot their design to quiz him, and found themselves charmed listeners
to the brilliant conversation, of that world-renowned champion of humanity, Benjamin Lundy,
for he it was.

On this particular evening, he gave us a sketch of his journey to Hayti; to accompany there
and settle some emancipated slaves; which I thought very interesting, and as I have never seen
it in print I will here relate it, as near as I can, in his own words:

In the State of Maryland, there lived a slaveholder the proprietor of some sixty slaves, and
being somewhat advanced in years, he determined to free them, in accordance with the laws of
that State, which required that they be sent out of it.

He had thought the matter over, but being undecided where to send them, he sent for Mr. Lundy
to assist him in his proposed plan; who was only too glad to comply with a request calculated
to carry out his own plans of philanthropy and equal rights.

When he had listened to the suggestions and expressed desires of the planter, he offered his
arguments in favor of the West India Islands; and it was decided to send them to Hayti, as
their future place of residence.

Six weeks were allowed for preparations; then Mr. Lundy was to return and take charge of them
on the voyage, and see them settled in their new homes.

When the appointed time arrived, Mr. Lundy was there to accompany them on board a vessel bound
for Hayti; on which was furnished as comfortable quarters, as the kindness of their conscientious
master and his own benevolent heart could suggest. When all was ready, the Christian master
came on board, to take leave of those faithful servants,--many of whom had served him from
their childhood, and all of whom he had bound to his heart by kindness and Christian benevolence.
It was a sad parting; not because the slaves did not love liberty, but because they appreciated
their master's kind forbearance, and solicitude for their future welfare. He had ever been
a humane and indulgent master; one who lightened the burthen of the poor slave, all in his
power. A moment's reflection will show, that it is invariably this conscientious kind of slaveholders,
who are induced to emancipate their slaves; and not the avaricious, cruel tyrant, who neither
fears God nor regards his fellow man.

The master of the slaves had kindly informed them of his intentions,--of the probable length
of the voyage, and the unavoidable sickness they would experience, &c.; but now, they were
gazing up into his kind face for the last time, as he knelt in prayer, commending that numerous
flock--raised on his own plantation--to the care and protection of Almighty God, beseeching
Him to protect them in the storm and dangers of the ocean; to guide them through this life,
and save them in the world to come; until the sobs and cries of the poor slaves drowned his
utterance. He at length took his final leave of them, and of Mr. Lundy; and the ship sailed
immediately. They, however, met storms and adverse winds, which detained them; and then the
poor, ignorant slaves began to believe what they had before suspected: that this was only some
wicked plan of Mr. Lundy's, laid to entice them away from a kind master, and to plunge them
into some dreadful degradation and suffering. "Master" had not told them of the adverse winds,
and they were certain that some mischief was intended; they grew sullen and disobedient; and
notwithstanding the kindness of Mr. Lundy, they murmured and complained, until his kind heart
sank within him; still he pursued the even tenor of his way, trusting in God for deliverance.
He watched over them in sickness, and administered to all their wants; but his tender solicitude
for their health and comfort, only excited suspicion, and increased their ungrateful ill humor.

One pleasant evening, Mr. Lundy paced the deck in deep thought. He was sad, and well nigh hopeless.
He had seen enough in the fierce look and sullen scowl; and had heard enough of the bitterness,
and threatening anger of the negroes, to know that a storm was gathering, which must soon burst
in all its wild fury over his devoted head. He was a small, feeble man, compared with those
who watched his every movement, and gnashed their teeth upon him so fiercely. None but the
Almighty could save him now; and to Him who "rides upon the wings of the wind, and maketh the
clouds His chariot," he drew near in fervent prayer; after which he retired in peace and confidence
to his berth. During the night, a fine breeze sprang up; and when he went on deck the next
morning, they were in sight of the luxuriant shore of Hayti! The officers of the island boarded
the ship; but their language was unintelligible to the negroes, who still looked daggers at
every one who spoke. They landed; but the fearful, and ungrateful slaves continued sullen and
forbidding. Mr. Lundy left them, however, and went into the country, where he selected their
future residence; and made every preparation for their comfort and convenience in his power;
saw them conveyed to their neat, pleasant homes, and all happily settled. This work was accomplished;
and he merely called to bid adieu to his ungrateful charge, when he found that one of the slaves
had been appointed to speak to him, in behalf of the whole number, and confess how deeply they
had wronged him. While they were conversing, the others gathered around, with tears and prayers
for forgiveness; and finally fell at his feet, imploring pardon for themselves, and blessings
on the kind, patient and humane Benjamin Lundy. He hurried from the affecting scene, and soon
after returned to America.

Thus that cold evening passed more pleasantly away in our rude cabin; and our Canandaigua gentlemen,
after an agreeable acquaintance, and pleasant chat with Mr. Lundy, retired for the night--not
like savages, but like gentlemen as they were; and I doubt not, with a more exalted opinion
of "the deaf old devil in the corner"

CHAPTER XXV.

PRIVATE LOSSES AND PRIVATE DIFFICULTIES.

Soon after settling in Wilberforce, I found that the rumor I had heard in the States, concerning
the refusal to sell land to colored persons, was literally correct, and my farm being too small
to yield a support for my family, and knowing it would be useless to apply for more land, I
engaged to carry packages for different merchants in the adjoining villages, as well as to
and from the settlement. Possessing a pair of excellent horses and a good wagon, I found it
a profitable business, and the only one I could well do, to eke out the proceeds of my farm,
and meet my expenses.

One day as I was returning from the village, one of my horses was taken suddenly ill. I took
him to a tavern near by, and as I could discover no cause for his illness, I concluded to leave
him a few days, supposing rest would soon restore him. I accordingly hired another horse, and
returned to the colony. In a day or two after, I collected my packages as usual, and started
on my route, designing to leave the hired horse and take my own; but when I arrived at the
tavern, I found some Indians engaged in taking off the hide and shoes of my poor, dead horse.
This was indeed, a great loss to me; but I consoled myself with the thought that I had one
good horse left, yet he would hardly be sufficient to accomplish alone, the labor I had engaged
to perform; nor had I the means to spare, to purchase another. I therefore hired one, and commenced
business again, with the determination to make up my loss by renewed diligence and perseverance.

I started in good spirits; but had proceeded but a few miles, when my remaining horse, which
I had supposed perfectly sound, reeled and fell in the harness! And before I could relieve
him of it, my noble animal and faithful servant, had breathed his last! Without a struggle
or a movement he lay lifeless on the cold earth. I was sad. I deplored the loss of my good,
and valuable team; but more the mystery and suspicion that hung over the event. I returned
home and sat down to devise some plan of procedure. What could I do? Half the means of our
support had been suddenly and mysteriously snatched from us. What could I do next? While thus
ruminating, I arose to answer a summons at the door, and who should enter but Mr. B. Paul,
a brother to our foreign agent, who had so long absented himself from our house, that I was
indeed surprised to see him at this time. He, however, seated himself, with great apparent
concern for my recent loss, which he soon made the subject of conversation and the object of
his visit.

"There has been," said he, "a great deal of unpleasant feeling, and injudicious speaking on
both sides, for which I am heartily sorry. The colony is too weak to sustain a division of
feelings; and now, that your recent losses have left you in a far less favorable condition
to sustain yourself and family, I have called to make a settlement of our former difficulties,
and to offer you two hundred and fifty dollars out of the collections for the colony."

I saw through the plan at once, and considered it only a bribe, to prevent my exposing the
iniquity of others. Should I consent to take a part of the ill-gotten spoils, with what confidence
could I attempt to stay the hand of the spoiler. I wanted money very much, it is true; but
after a moment's reflection, not enough to sanction the manner in which it had been obtained;
and though I confess, the offer presented to me a strong temptation, I am thankful that I was
enabled to resist it. I refused to accept the money; and after sending away the tempter and
his offered gain, I felt my heart lighter, and my conscience more peaceful than is often the
lot of sinful, erring man in this world of trial and conflict; and yet I could but feel that
the mystery in which the death of my horses was involved, was partially at least, explained.

CHAPTER XXVI.

INCIDENTS AND PECULIARITIES OF THE INDIANS.

During our residence in Canada, we were often visited by the Indians, which gave us an opportunity
to learn their character, habits and disposition; and some incidents illustrative of the peculiarities
of that abused people, I will here mention.

I recollect one bitter cold night, about eleven o'clock, I happened to awake, and looking out
toward the fire, I was surprised to see standing there, erect and quiet, a tall, brawny Indian,
wrapped in his blanket; his long hunting knife and tomahawk dangling from his belt; and his
rifle in his hand. Had he been in his own wigwam, he could not have looked about him with more
satisfaction and independence. I instantly sprang to my feet, and demanded his errand.

"Me lost in the woods, and me come to stay all night," was his grave reply.

"Then," said I, "give me your weapons, and I will make no objection."

He disarmed himself, and gave his weapons to me, with an air of haughty disdain for my fears.
I put them in a place of safety and then prepared his bed, which was nothing more than the
floor, where they choose to sleep, with their head to the fire. My offer of anything different
from this he proudly resented as an insult to his powers of endurance, and would say, "beds
for pale faces and women; hard board for Indians." He threw himself down, drew his blanket
about him, and was soon sleeping soundly. As soon as the day began to dawn, he was up, called
for his arms, and after thanking me in the brief Indian style of politeness, departed for the
forest. He had found our doors all fastened, save a low back door, through which he entered,
passing through a back room so full of miscellaneous articles, that it was difficult to go
through it in the day time without upsetting something; but the Indian understood all this,
he made no noise, nor would he have spoken at all, had I not awakened; and yet, he would have
scorned to injure any one beneath the roof that gave him shelter, unless he had been intoxicated.

One sabbath afternoon, one of my children was sitting in the door, when a tall, emaciated Indian
came up and said, "Will my little lady please to give me a drink of water?" While she went
for it, I invited him to a seat within. There was something dignified and commanding in his
appearance, and something in his voice and countenance, that won my confidence and respect
at once. He remained in the place some time, and I learned his history.

In his younger days he had been a great warrior; and even now, when recounting, as he often
did, the scenes of the battle field, his eye would burn with savage fire, lighting up his whole
countenance with the fiercest kind of bravery, and often with a hideous yell that would startle
our very souls, he would burst from the room and bound over the fields and forest, with the
fleetness of a deer--making the woods ring with his frightful war-cry, until the blood seemed
ready to curdle in our veins. He had also been one of the famous Tecumseh's braves; and had
stood by him when he fell on the fifth of October, 1813. This old brave, whenever he called
the name of Tecumseh, bowed his head reverently; and would often try to tell us how very deeply
they mourned when it could no longer be doubted that the brave heart of Tecumseh, brother of
the celebrated Wabash prophet, had ceased to beat.

"Had an arrow pierced the sun and brought it to my feet," said the old warrior, "I could not
have been more astounded than at the fall of Tecumseh." Then he told us that once, after a
great and victorious battle, Tecumseh, in his war paint and feathers, stood in the midst of
his braves, when a little pale faced girl made her way weeping to him and said, "My mother
is very ill, and your men are abusing her, and refuse to go away." "Never," said the Indian,
"did I see a frown so terrible on the face of Tecumseh, as at that moment; when he with one
hand clutched his tomahawk, and with the other led the little girl to the scene of riot. He
approached the unruly savages with uplifted tomahawk, its edge glittering like silver, and
with one shout of 'begone!' they scattered as though a thunderbolt had fallen in their midst."

But the old warrior at Wilberforce fought no more battles, except in imagination those of the
past. After peace was declared he bought a valuable piece of land, with the intention of spending
the remainder of his life more quietly; but unfortunately there lived not far from him a man
who had once been the possessor of that farm, and had lost it in some way, and was now in reduced
circumstances.

He was both envious and vicious; and because he could not himself buy the land, he was determined
that the old Indian should not have it. After having tried many ways to get it from him, he
finally complained of him, for fighting for the British and against the country where he now
resided. This was successful; he was arrested and thrown into prison, and without a trial,
removed from one prison to another, until he, with several others, was sent South to be tried
as traitors. While on the way, the keeper of this Indian wished to call on his mother, who
lived in a little cottage by the roadside, to bid her farewell. She was an aged woman, and
when her son left her to join his companions, she followed him to the door weeping, wringing
her hands in great distress, and imploring the widow's God to protect her only son. She had
had four; all of whom went forth, with an American mother's blessing, to fight in defence of
their country; and this one alone, returned alive from the field of battle. Now as he took
his final departure for the South, she clasped her hands, raised her tearful eyes to heaven,
and while large drops rolled over her wrinkled cheeks, she cried, "Oh, God, protect my only
one, and return him to me in safety, ere I die." This scene, the imprisoned, and as some supposed,
heartless Indian, watched with interest; no part of it escaped his attention; but they passed
on, and safely reached Detroit. The prisoners were conducted to a hotel and secured for the
night; our Indian hero being consigned to an attic, which they supposed a safe place for him.
There happened to be on that night, a company of showmen stopping at that hotel, and exhibiting
wax-work; among the rest, was a figure of General Brock, who fell at Queenston Heights, and
a costly cloak of fur, worn by the General previous to his death. Nothing of this escaped the
eagle-eye and quick ear of the Indian. When all was quiet in the hotel, he commenced operations,
for he had made up his mind to leave, which with the red man is paramount to an accomplishment
of his design. He found no great difficulty in removing the window of his lofty apartment,
out of which he clambered, and with the agility of a squirrel and the caution of a cat, he
sprang for the conductor and on it he slid to the ground. He was now free to go where he pleased;
but he had heard something about the cloak of Gen. Brock; he knew too, that the friends of
the General had offered fifty guineas for it, and now he would just convey it to them.

With the sagacity of his race, he surveyed the hotel, and determined the exact location of
the show-room. Stealthily and noiselessly, he entered it; found the cloak--took it and departed,
chuckling at his good fortune. As he was creeping out of the apartment with his booty, a thought
struck him, which not only arrested his footsteps, but nearly paralized his whole being. Would
not his keeper be made to answer, and perhaps to suffer for his escape and theft? Of course
he would. "Then in the darkness I saw again," said the old brave, "that old pale-faced mother,
weeping for the loss of her only son," when he immediately returned the cloak to its place,
and with far more difficulty than in his descent, he succeeded in reaching his attic prison,
where he laid himself down, muttering to himself, "not yet,--poor old pale-face got but one."

They took him to Virginia, where, instead of a trial, they gave him about the same liberty
they do their slaves. He staid one winter; but when the spring opened, the fire of the red
man took possession of him, and when sent to the forest to chop wood, he took a bee-line for
his former residence. But what was he to do for food? With a rifle, he could live happily in
the woods, but he had none; so after considering the matter, he said to himself, "Me must get
a rifle," and instantly started for the highway. The first cabin he saw, he entered in great
apparent excitement, and told the woman of the house, that he had seen a "big deer in the woods,
and wanted a rifle to shoot it. When you hear my gun," he said, "then you come and get big
deer." She gave him her husband's excellent rifle and a few bullets; he looked at them, and
said he must have more, for "it was a big deer;" so she gave him the bullet-mould and a piece
of lead, with which he departed, after repeating his former injunction, to come when she heard
the rifle; but, said he, "she no hear it yet."

He at length arrived at his own farm, from which he had been so cruelly driven, and concealed
himself behind a log in sight of his own house, to watch the inmates. He soon learned that
it was occupied by the man who had persecuted him in order to obtain it, his wife and one child.
All day until midnight, he watched them from his hiding place, then assuming all the savage
ferocity of his nature, and giving himself the most frightful appearance possible, he entered
the house, and noiselessly passed to their sleeping room, where he placed himself before them
with a long knife in his hand. Having assumed this frightful attitude, he commanded them in
a voice of thunder, to get up and give him some supper. They were awake now. Oh, horror! what
a sight for a guilty man, and a timid woman! "Me come to kill you!" said the Indian, as he
watched their blanched cheeks and quivering lips. They tottered about on their trembling limbs
to get everything he asked for, imploring him for God's sake to take all, but spare their lives.
"Me will have scalps," he answered fiercely; but when he had eaten all he desired, he adjusted
his blanket, and putting on a savage look, he remarked as if to himself, "Me go now get my
men and kill him, kill he wife, and kill he baby!" and left the house for his post of observation.

The frightened inmates lost no time, but hastily collecting some provisions, fled to the frontier,
and were never heard of afterwards.

The Indian immediately took possession of his own and quite an addition left by the former tenants.

While the kind-hearted old Indian repeated to me the story of his wrongs, it reminded me of
the injustice practised on myself, and the colored race generally. Does a colored man by hard
labor and patient industry, acquire a good location, a fine farm, and comfortable dwelling,
he is almost sure to be looked upon by the white man, as an usurper of his rights and territory;
a robber of what he himself should possess, and too often does wrong the colored man out of,--yet,
I am happy to acknowledge many honorable exceptions.

I have often wondered, when looking at the remnant of that once powerful race, whether the
black man would become extinct and his race die out, as have the red men of the forest; whether
they would wither in the presence of the enterprising Anglo-Saxon as have the natives of this
country. But now I have no such wondering inquiries to make; being persuaded that the colored
man has yet a prominent part to act in this highly-favored Republic,--of what description the
future must determine.

CHAPTER XXVII.

OUR DIFFICULTIES WITH ISRAEL LEWIS.

Being under the necessity of referring again to the difficulties existing in the Wilberforce
colony, I shall here introduce a circular, published in New York city, which will give the
reader an understanding of the real cause of our embarrassments, and the character of our agent,
Israel Lewis.

CIRCULAR

New York, May 9th, 1836.

The committee of colored citizens of the city of New York, as servants of the public, sincerely
regret the necessity of bringing the within subject before the public. Their duty to God, to
society, and to themselves, only actuates them in this matter.

The fact that many individuals in different sections of the country, have long suspected the
integrity of Israel Lewis, but possessing no authentic documentary evidence, they have been
prevented from making an effort, to counteract his too successful attempts and those of his
agents, in the collection of funds from the public, has induced us to transmit this circular.

THEODORE S. WRIGHT, PETER OGDEN, THOMAS DOWNING, GEORGE POTTS, CHARLES B. RAY, DAVID RUGGLES,
JOHN STANS, WILLIAM P. JOHNSON, WILLIAM HAMILTON, SAMUEL E. CORNISH.

       *       *       *       *       *

ISRAEL LEWIS.

Wilberforce, U.C., March 28th, 1836.

The board of managers of the Wilberforce settlement, met and passed unanimously the following
resolutions--Present, Austin Steward, Philip Harris, Peter Butler, William Bell, John Whitehead,
Samuel Peters.

Resolved, 1st. That we deeply regret the manner in which our friends in the States have been
imposed upon by Israel Lewis; and that we hereby inform them, as a board of managers or otherwise,
that we have received less than one hundred dollars of all the money borrowed and collected
in the States.

Resolved, 2d. That although we have not received one hundred dollars from said Lewis, yet,
when we shall have received the funds collected by our agent, the Rev. Nathan Paul, in England,
we will refund as far as our abilities will allow and our friends may require, the money contributed
for our supposed benefit, by them in the States.

Resolved, 3d. That we tender our sincere thanks to our beloved friends, Arthur Tappan and others,
who have taken such deep interest in the welfare of our little colony.

Resolved, 4th. That the foregoing resolutions be signed by the whole board, and sent to the
States to be published in the New York Observer and other papers.

AUSTIN STEWARD, President, PETER BUTLER, Treasurer, JOHN HALMES, Secretary.

PHILIP HARRIS,    } WILLIAM BELL,     } JOHN WHITEHEAD,   }  Managers. SAMUEL PETERS,    }

       *       *       *       *       *

New York, April 25th, 1836.

At a public meeting of the colored citizens of New York city, held in Phoenix Hall, Thomas
L. Jennings in the Chair, and Charles B. Ray, Secretary, the following resolutions were passed
unanimously:

Resolved, That the thanks of this meeting be tendered to the Rev. Samuel E. Cornish, for the
able and satisfactory report of his mission to Upper Canada, especially to the Wilberforce
settlement.

Resolved, That this meeting deem it their imperative duty, to announce to the public, that
in view of facts before them, Israel Lewis [1] has abused their confidence, wasted their benevolence,
and forfeited all claim to their countenance and respect.

Resolved, That a committee of ten, be appointed to give publicity to the foregoing resolutions;
also, to the communication from the managers of the Wilberforce settlement, as they may deem
necessary in the case.

THOMAS L. JENNINGS, Chairman, CHARLES B. RAY, Secretary.

[Footnote 1: It necessarily follows that the public should withhold their money from his subordinate
agents.]

It will now appear that I was not the only unfortunate individual who had difficulty with Mr.
Lewis. Mr. Arthur Tappan made known through the press, about this time, that Israel Lewis was
not a man to be fully relied upon in his statements regarding the Wilberforce colony; and also,
if money was placed in his hands for the benefit of the sick and destitute among the settlers,
it would be doubtful whether it was faithfully applied according to the wishes of the donors.

For this plain statement of facts, Mr. Lewis commenced a suit against Mr. Tappan, for defamation
of character; laying the damages at the round sum of ten thousand dollars. It appeared that
Lewis valued his reputation highly now that he had elevated himself sufficiently to commence
a suit against one of the best and most respectable gentlemen in New York city; a whole souled
abolitionist withal; one who had suffered his name to be cast out as evil, on account of his
devotion to the colored man's cause-- both of the enslaved and free; one who has, moreover,
seen his own dwelling entered by an infuriated and pro-slavery mob; his expensive furniture
thrown into the street as fuel for the torch of the black man's foe; and, amid the crackling
flame which consumed it, to hear the vile vociferations of his base persecutors, whose only
accusation was his defence of the colored man. This noble hearted, Christian philanthropist,
who took "joyfully the spoiling of his goods" for the cause of the oppressed, was the chosen
victim of Lewis' wrath and violent vituperation; and that too, where he was well known as a
most honorable, humane gentleman; and all for naming facts which were quite generally known
already.

Lewis returned to Wilberforce, flushed and swaggering with the idea of making his fortune in
this speculation of a law-suit against Mr. Tappan; and to remove all obstacles, he sent a man
to me, to say that if I would publish nothing, and would abandon the interests of the colonists,
he would give me a handsome sum of money. I soon gave him to understand that he had applied
to the wrong person for anything of that kind; and he then laid a plan to accomplish by fraud
and perjury, what he had failed to do by bribery.

I have before mentioned the fact of my having taken up a note of twenty-five dollars for Mr.
Lewis, on condition that he would soon refund the money. I did it as a favor, and kept the
note in my possession, until about a year afterward, when I sued him to recover my just due
on the note. We had then began to differ in our public business, which led to other differences
in our transaction of both public and private matters relating to the colony. He of course
gave bail for his appearance at court, and it ran along for some time until he found he could
not bribe me to enter into his interests, and then for the first time, he declared that I had
stolen the note! And finally succeeded in getting me indicted before the grand jury!

In this I suppose Lewis and his confederates had two objects: first, to get rid of me; secondly,
that they might have a chance to account for my continued hostility, by saying that it arose
in consequence of a private quarrel, and not for any true interest I had in their collecting
money deceptively.

Lewis appeared so bent on my destruction, that he forgot it was in my power to show how I came
by the note. The Court of King's Bench met, but in consequence of the cholera, was adjourned,
and of course, the case must lie over until another year.

When the time for the trial drew near, I was, in the midst of my preparations to attend it,
counseled and advised by different persons to flee from the country, which I had labored so
hard and so conscientiously to benefit, and received in return nothing but detraction and slander.
But conscious of my innocence, I declared I would not leave; I knew I had committed no crime;
I had violated no law of the land,--and I would do nothing to imply guilt. He who hath formed
the heart, knoweth its intent and purpose, and to Him I felt willing to commit my cause. True,
the court might convict, imprison, and transport me away from my helpless family of five small
children; if so, I was determined they should punish an innocent man. Nevertheless, it was
a dark time; I was not only saddened and perplexed, but my spirit was grieved, and I felt like
one "wounded in the house of his friends,"--ready to cry out, "had it been an enemy I could
have borne it," but to be arraigned, for the first time in my life, as a criminal, by one of
the very people I had spent my substance to benefit, was extremely trying. Guiltless as I knew
myself to be, still, I was aware that many incidents had transpired, which my enemies could
and would construe to my disadvantage; moreover, Lewis had money, which he would freely distribute
to gain his point right or wrong, and to get me out of his way.

In due time the trial came on, and I was to be tried for theft! Lewis had reported all through
the settlement that on a certain time I had called at his house, and from a bundle of papers
which his wife showed me, I had purloined the note, which had caused me so much trouble. To
prove this it was necessary to get his wife to corroborate the statement. This was not an easy
matter. Mrs. Lewis, indignant and distressed by her husband's unkindness, had left him and
taken up her abode in the family of a hospitable Englishman. After Lewis had been sent out
as an agent for the colony, finding himself possessed of sufficient funds to cut a swell, he
associated and was made a great deal of, by both ladies and gentlemen in high stations of life;
the consequence of which was, he looked now with disdain upon his faithful, but illiterate
wife, who like himself had been born a slave, and bred on a Southern plantation; and who had
with him escaped from the cruel task-master, enduring with him the hardships and dangers of
the flying fugitive.

Now her assistance was necessary to carry forward his plans, and he endeavored in various ways
to induce her to return, but in vain. When he sent messengers to inform her how sorry he felt
for his past abuse, she said she feared it was only some wicked plot to entice her away from
the peaceable home she had found. Lewis saw that he must devise some other method to obtain
her evidence. He therefore called on the brother of the Englishman in whose family Mrs. Lewis
was, and in a threatening manner told him that he understood his brother was harboring his
wife, and that he intended to make him pay dear for it. The brother, to save trouble, said
he would assist him to get his wife, and that night conducted Lewis to her residence. No better
proof can be given that Mrs. Lewis possessed the true heart of a woman, than that the moment
her husband made humble concessions, and promised to love and protect her henceforth, she forgave
him all his past infidelity and neglect, and looked with hope to a brighter future. In return
Lewis presented her with a note, telling her to take it to a certain person and present it,
and he would give her twenty dollars on it. This would, he doubtless thought, leave her in
his power.

As Mrs. Lewis could not read, the unsuspecting wife presented the paper all in good faith.
The gentleman looked at her sharply, suspiciously,--and then asked her, if she was not aware
that she was presenting him a paper completely worthless! The poor woman was mortified and
astonished; and instead of returning to her husband, fled to Wilberforce, and called at our
house. Knowing how disastrous to me would be her false statement, and ignorant of her state
of mind, I asked her if she had come to assist Mr. Lewis by swearing against me. I saw at once,
that she had not yet been informed of her husband's design.

"Swear against you, Mr. Steward!" said she. "I know nothing to swear that would injure you;
I have always known you as an honest, upright man, and you need not fear my turning against
an innocent person, for the benefit of one I know to be guilty. Nor would I have left my place,
had I known what I now do." So all help and fear was ended in that quarter.

When at length the appointed morning arrived, I arose early, but with a saddened heart. I looked
upon my wife and helpless family, reflecting that possibly this might be the last time we should
all assemble around the breakfast table in our hitherto quiet home, and I could scarcely refrain
from weeping. I, however, took my leave, and a lad with me, to bring back a message of the
result, if the court found sufficient cause to detain me for trial. But when I found that I
must be tried, I felt too unhappy to make others so, and kept out of the lad's way. He returned
without a message; and I took my seat in the prisoner's box. I had just taken a letter out
of the post office, from Rochester, containing recommendations and attestations from the first
men in the city, of my good character, which relieved my feelings somewhat: nevertheless, my
heart was heavy, and especially when, soon after I took my seat, a trap-door was opened and
a murderer was brought up and seated by my side!

Chief Justice Robinson, made his appearance in great pomp--dressed in the English court style-then
the crier, in a shrill voice, announced the opening of the court, and finished by exclaiming,
"God save the King!" His lordship then called the attention of the jury to the law of the land;
particularly to that portion relating to their present duty; and the grand jury presented me
to the court, for feloniously taking a certain promissory note from the house of Israel Lewis.
The King's Attorney had but one witness, and that was Lewis. He was called to the stand, permitted
to relate his story, and retire without any cross-examination on the part of my Attorney; but
that gentleman called up three respectable white men, all of whom swore that they would not
believe Israel Lewis under oath! Then submitted the case to the jury without remark or comment,
and the jury, without leaving their seats, brought in a verdict of "NOT GUILTY." Thus ended
my first and last trial for theft! Oh, how my very soul revolted at the thought of being thus
accused; but now that I stood justified before God and my fellow-men, I felt relieved and grateful;
nor could I feel anything but pity for Lewis, who, like Hainan, had been so industriously engaged
in erecting "a gallows fifty cubits high" for me, but found himself dangling upon it He raved
like a madman, clutched the arm of the Judge and demanded a new trial, but he shook him off
with contempt and indignation, as though he had been a viper. In his wild fury and reckless
determination to destroy my character, he had cast a foul stain upon his own, never to be effaced.
I had felt bound to preserve my reputation when unjustly assailed, but it had been to me a
painful necessity to throw a fellow-being into the unenviable and disgraceful attitude in which
Lewis now stood; and yet, he would not, and did not yield the point, notwithstanding his ignominious
defeat.

He very soon began to gather his forces for another attack upon me, and followed the same direction
for his accusation,--the land purchase.

The reader will recollect without further repetition, that as I could purchase no land of the
Canada Company, because of their indignation against Lewis, I was glad to accept of the contract
he had made with Mr. Ingersoll, for lot number four in the colony; that I paid the sum demanded,
and took his assignment on the back of the contract, and as we then were on good terms, it
never occurred to me that a witness was necessary to attest to the transaction. But after his
failure to prove me a thief; his next effort was to convict me of forgery! It will be remembered
that Lewis after selling out to me, returned the contract to Mr. Ingersoll, and that I had
lost by the means, the land, and at least five hundred dollars' worth of improvements. Then
I brought a suit against Lewis, to recover the money I had paid him for the contract; and then
it was that he asserted and attempted to prove, that I had forged the assignment, and therefore,
had no just claim on him for the amount paid. But in this, as in the other case, he met a defeat
and made an entire failure. I recovered all that I claimed, which, was only my just due. One
would suppose that after so many unsuccessful attempts to ruin me, he would have left me alone,--but
not so with Lewis: he had the ambition of a Bonaparte; and doubtless had he possessed the advantages
of an education, instead of having been born and bred a slave, he might, like an Alexander
or Napoleon, have astonished the world with his deeds of daring. I am, however, no admirer
of what the world call "great men,"--one humble, self-sacrificing Christian, like Benjamin
Lundy, has far greater claim on my respect and reverence.

Lewis, failing in his second attack, backed up as he had been in all his wicked course, by
a friend wearing the sacred garb of a minister of the gospel, cooled off, and it became evident
to all, that he was meditating some different mode of warfare. To this concealed confederate,
I must attach great blame, on account of the influence his station and superior learning gave
him, not only over Mr. Lewis, but the colonists generally, and which should have been exerted
for the good of all, in truth and honesty.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

DESPERATION OF A FUGITIVE SLAVE.

We had as yet received no funds from our foreign agent, N. Paul, and the board of managers
had resolved to send a man after him. An Englishman and a white man named Nell, would gladly
undertake the mission, leaving his wife and five children among the settlers. Again was I under
the necessity of returning to New York, to obtain the funds required to send out Mr. Nell after
our agent in England.

The night before I left home, I had a singular dream which I will briefly relate. I dreamed
of journeying on a boat to Albany, and of stopping at a house to take tea. Several persons,
I thought, were at the table, and as a cup of tea was handed me, I saw a woman slyly drop something
into it. I, however, drank the tea, and dreamed that it made me very sick.

I found it difficult to drive from my mind the unpleasant impression this dream had made upon
it, but finally succeeded in doing so, attributing it to the many and malicious threatenings
which had been made by Lewis and his associates. They had boldly asserted, that "if I went
to the States, I would never return alive," and several other threats equally malignant. I,
however, started with Mr. Nell for Rochester, where we made an effort to raise money to aid
in defraying the expenses of the voyage, and succeeded in collecting about a hundred dollars.
From thence we passed on to Albany, where we fell in company with a number of Mr. Paul's friends,
who appeared to be terribly indignant, and accused me of coming there to expose their friends,--Paul
and Lewis. We had some warm words and unpleasant conversation, after which they left me very
unceremoniously, and appeared to be very angry. A short time after, one of them returned, and
in the most friendly manner invited me to his house to tea. I was glad of an opportunity to
show that I harbored no unpleasant feelings toward them, and immediately accompanied him home.
The moment that we were all seated at the table, an unpleasant suspicion flashed through, my
mind. The table, the company--all seemed familiar to me, and connected with some unpleasant
occurrence which I could not then recall. But when the lady of the house poured out a cup of
tea, and another was about to pass it, I heard her whisper, "I intended that for Mr. Steward,"
my dream for the first time, flashed through my mind, with all the vivid distinctness of a
real incident. I endeavored to drive it from my thoughts, and did so. Pshaw! I said to myself;
I will not be suspicious nor whimsical, and I swallowed the tea; then took my leave for the
steamboat, on our way to New York city.

When we had passed a few miles out of Albany, the boat hove to, and there came on board four
men--one of the number a colored man. The white men repaired to their state-rooms, leaving
the colored man on deck, after the boat had returned to the channel. He attracted my attention,
by his dejected appearance and apparent hopeless despair. He was, I judged, about forty years
of age; his clothing coarse and very ragged; and the most friendless, sorrowful looking being
I ever saw. He spake to no one, but silently paced the deck; his breast heaving with inaudible
sighs; his brow contracted with a most terrible frown; his eyes dreamily fastened on the floor,
and he appeared to be considering on some hopeless undertaking, I watched him attentively,
as I walked to and fro on the same deck, and could clearly discover that some fearful conflict
was taking place in his mind; but as I afterwards repassed him he looked up with a happy, patient
smile, that lighted up his whole countenance, which seemed to say plainly, I see a way of escape,
and have decided on my course of action. His whole appearance was changed; his heart that before
had beat so wildly was quiet now as the broad bosom of the Hudson, and he gazed alter me with
a look of calm deliberation, indicative of a settled, but desperate purpose. I walked hastily
forward and turned around, when, Oh, my God! what a sight was there! Holding still the dripping
knife, with which he had cut his throat! and while his life-blood oozed from the gaping wound
and flowed over his tattered garments to the deck, the same exultant smile beamed on his ghastly
features!

The history of the poor, dejected creature was now revealed: he had escaped from his cruel
task-master in Maryland; but in the midst of his security and delightful enjoyment, he had
been overtaken by the human blood-hound, and returned to his avaricious and tyrannical master,
now conducting him back to a life of Slavery, to which he rightly thought death was far preferable.

The horrors of slave life, which he had so long endured, arose in all their hideous deformity
in his mind, hence the conflict of feeling which I had observed,--and hence the change in his
whole appearance, when he had resolved to endure a momentary pain, and escape a life-long scene
of unrequited toil and degradation.

There happened to be on the boat at the time, several companies of citizen soldiers, who, shocked
by the awful spectacle, expressed their decided abhorrence of the institution of Slavery, declaring
that it was not for such peculiar villainy, that their fathers fought and bled on the battle
field. So determined were they in their indignation; so loudly demanded they a cessation of
such occurrences on board our boats, and the soil of a free State, that the slaveholders became
greatly alarmed, and with all possible dispatch they hurriedly dragged the poor bleeding slave
into a closet, and securely locked the door; nor have I ever been able to learn his final doom.
Whether the kindly messenger of death released him from the clutches of the man-stealer, or
whether he recovered to serve his brutal master, I have never been informed.

After this exciting scene had passed, I began to realize that I was feeling quite ill; an unusual
load seemed to oppress my stomach, and by the time we had reached New York city, I was exceedingly
distressed. I hastened to a boarding house, kept by a colored woman, who did everything in
her power to relieve me; but I grew worse until I thought in reality, I must die. The lady
supposed I was dying of cholera, sent to Brooklyn after Mr. Nell; but having previously administered
an emetic, I began to feel better; and when I had finally emptied my stomach of its contents,
tea and all, by vomiting, I felt into a profound sleep, from which I awoke greatly relieved.
The kindness of that lady I shall not soon forget. She had a house full of boarders, who would
have fled instantly, had they known that, as she supposed, I was suffering from cholera; and
instead of sending me to the hospital, as she might have done, she kept all quiet until it
was over, doing all she could for my relief and comfort; yet, it was a scene of distress which
I hope may never be repeated.

On the following morning, I saw in the city papers, "A Card," inserted by the owner of the
poor slave on board the steamboat, informing the public that he was returning South with a
fugitive slave, who, when arrested, evinced great willingness to return; who had confessed
also, that he had done very wrong in leaving his master, for which he was sorry,--but he supposed
that the abolitionists had been tampering with him. That was all! Not a word about his attempt
to take his life! Oh no, he merely wished to allay the excitement, that the horrid deed had
produced on the minds of those present.

I was indignant at the publication of such a deliberate falsehood, and immediately wrote and
published that I too was on board the same boat with the fugitive; that I had witnessed an
exhibition of his willingness to return to Slavery, by seeing him cut his throat, and lay on
the deck wallowing in his blood; that the scene had so excited the sympathies of the soldiers
present, that his owner had been obliged to hurry him out of their sight, &c.

When this statement appeared in the newspapers, it so exasperated the friends of the slaveholder,
that I was advised to flee from the city, lest I might be visited with personal violence; but
I assured my advisers that it was only the wicked who "flee when no man pursueth, but the righteous
are bold as a lion." I therefore commenced the business that brought me to that city. Messrs.
Bloss, Nell, and myself, made an effort, and raised between three and four hundred dollars
for the purpose of sending Mr. Nell after Rev. N. Paul.

Most of the funds collected, we gave to Mr. Nell, who sailed from New York, and arrived safely
in England, just as N. Paul was boarding a vessel to return to New York.

Had Mr. Nell acted honorably, or in accordance with his instructions, he would have returned
with the agent; but he remained in England, and for aught I know is there yet. He was sent
expressly after Mr. Paul, and when he left that kingdom, Nell's mission was ended. He proved
himself less worthy of confidence than the agent, for he did return when sent for, and he did
account for the money he had collected, though he retained it all; but Mr. Nell accounted for
nothing of the kind; and if he has ever returned, I have not seen him. Mr. N. Paul arrived
in New York in the fall of 1834, and remained there through the winter, to the great disappointment
and vexation of the colonists. I wrote him concerning our condition and wants, hoping it would
induce him to visit us immediately; but he had married while in England, an English lady, who
had accompanied aim to New York, where they were now living; nor did he appear to be in any
haste about giving an account of himself to the board of managers who had employed him.

CHAPTER XXIX.

A NARROW ESCAPE FROM MY ENEMIES.

During my absence in New York city, Lewis and his confederates were prophesying that I would
never trouble them more, and shaking their heads quite ominously at the happy riddance. One
day, our hired man entered the house and inquired of my wife, when I was expected home. She
told him she did not know, having received no intelligence from me. He assured her that a letter
had been received by some one in the colony; that he had seen it, and had heard Mr. Lewis speak
of conveying it to her,--but as it did not come, she gave it up, supposing some mistake had
been made. I had, however, written, naming the time when she might expect me; but no letter
of mine reached her, during my long absence, for which she could not account. A short time
before that specified for my return, a woman, whose husband was an associate of Mr. Lewis,
came to my house, and urged my wife "to leave word at the village of London, to have Mr. Steward
detained there, should he arrive toward evening, and by no means allow him to start for the
colony after dark." My family had so often been alarmed by such warnings, and had so frequently
been annoyed by the violent threatenings of Lewis, that they ceased to regard them, and paid
little attention, to this one.

I arrived at London on the day I had appointed for my return, but was detained there until
a late hour; feeling anxious, however, to get home that night, supposing that I was expected,--I
therefore hired a horse to ride the remaining fifteen miles to the settlement.

The road from London to Wilberforce led through a swamp, known as "McConnell's Dismal Swamp,"
and it was indeed, one of the most dreary places in all that section of country. I am certain
that a hundred men might conceal themselves within a rod of the highway, without being discovered.

The horse I had engaged, was a high spirited animal, and to that fact, I doubtless owe my life.
The moon shone brightly, and nothing broke the stillness of the night, as I rode onward, but
the clatter of my horse's hoofs, and an occasional "bow-wow" of some faithful watch-dog.

When I reached the swamp and entered its darkened recesses, the gloom and stillness was indeed
fearful; my horse started at every rustling leaf or crackling brush, until I attempted to pass
a dense thicket, when I was started by the sharp crack of a rifle, and a bullet whizzed past
me, close to my ear! The frightened horse reared and plunged, and then springing as if for
life, he shot off like an arrow, amid the explosion of fire arms discharged at me as I rode
away. I lost my balance at first, and came near falling, but recovering it I grasped the rein
tightly, while my fiery steed flew over the ground with lightning speed; nor did I succeed
in controlling him until he had run two miles, which brought me to my own door.

I found my family well, and very grateful that I had arrived safely after so fearful an encounter.

When morning came I sent a person out to inquire whether any of the settlers were out the night
previous, and the report was, "Israel Lewis and two other men were out all night; that they
had been seen near the Dismal Swamp;" moreover, Lewis was seen to come in that morning with
his boots covered with swamp mud,--these the Rev. Mr. Paul's boys cleaned for him, all of which
was evidence that he it was, who had way-laid me with criminal intent.

I afterwards learned, that those three men left the settlement at dusk, for the swamp; that
they stationed themselves one rod apart, all on one side of the road, each man with a loaded
rifle,--the poorest marksman was to fire first, and if he did not bring me down, probably the
second would; but Lewis being the best shot of the three, was to reserve his fire until the
last, which they supposed I could not escape. It was quite dark in the thicket, and my spirited
horse plunged in every direction so furiously, that they could take no aim at me, until he
had started to run, when we were soon beyond their reach.

We had already had so much difficulty in our little colony that we were getting heartily sick
of it. I was well aware that Lewis was thirsting for revenge; that he wished to do me a great
wrong; and yet I was thankful on his account, as well as on my own, that he had been prevented
from imbruing his hands in the blood of a fellow being.

Had he succeeded in taking my life, as he undoubtedly intended to do, he would have been arrested
immediately, and most likely punished as a murderer. He had boldly threatened my life, and
the colonists were expecting something of the kind to take place. Had I not arrived at the
colony, it was known at London that I had started for the settlement that night, and an immediate
search would have been instituted; nor could the wicked deed have brought the least peace to
the mind of Lewis or his companions,

  "No peace of mind does that man know,
    Who bears a guilty breast;
  His conscience drives him to and fro,
    And never lets him rest."

CHAPTER XXX.

DEATH OF B. PAUL, AND RETURN OF HIS BROTHER.

The bold and wicked attempt to take my life, recorded in the preceding chapter, aroused a feeling
of indignation in the community against Lewis, and completely destroyed the little influence
he had left; moreover, he had now been so extensively published as an impostor, that he could
collect no more money on the false pretense of raising it for the benefit of the colony. As
soon as his money was gone and his influence destroyed, --many who had been his firmest friends,
turned against him, and among this class was the Rev. Benjamin Paul. He had ever professed
the greatest friendship for, and interest in the success of Mr. Lewis. Heretofore, whenever
he went to the States he was commissioned by that gentleman's family, to purchase a long list
of expensive articles, which the poor colonists were seldom able to buy; and he generally returned
to them richly laden with goods, purchased with, money given to the poor, sick, and destitute
in the colony.

Mr. B. Paul had ever been a very proud man, but not a very healthy one. He was inclined to
pulmonary diseases; but had kept up pretty well, until Lewis was effectually put down, and
his own character involved in many of his notorious proceedings, together with the disappointment
occasioned by his brother remaining so long in England, when his health failed, and he sank
rapidly under accumulating disasters, to the grave.

