"May I presume to ask you, sir," said Candide, "whether you do not receive a great deal of
pleasure from reading Horace?"

"There are maxims in this writer," answered Pococurante, "from which a man of the world may
reap great benefit, and being written in energetic verse they are more easily impressed upon
the memory. But I care little for his journey to Brundusium, and his account of a bad dinner,
or of his low quarrel between one Rupilius whose words he says were full of poisonous filth,
and another whose language was imbued with vinegar. I have read with much distaste his indelicate
verses against old women and witches; nor do I see any merit in telling his friend Mæcenas
that if he will but rank him in the choir of lyric poets, his lofty head shall touch the stars.
Fools admire everything in an author of reputation. For my part, I read only to please myself.
I like only that which serves my purpose."

Candide, having been educated never to judge for himself, was much surprised at what he heard.
Martin found there was a good deal of reason in Pococurante's remarks. "What is it to me whether
he pleads for Rabirius or Cluentius? I try causes enough myself; his philosophical works seem
to me better, but when I found that he doubted of everything, I concluded that I knew as much
as he, and that I had no need of a guide to learn ignorance."

"Ha! here are four-score volumes of the Academy of Sciences," cried Martin. "Perhaps there
is something valuable in this collection."

"There might be," said Pococurante, "if only one of those rakers of rubbish had shown how to
make pins; but in all these volumes there is nothing but chimerical systems, and not a single
useful thing."

"And what dramatic works I see here," said Candide, "in Italian, Spanish, and French."

"Yes," replied the Senator, "there are three thousand, and not three dozen of them good for
anything. As to those collections of sermons, which altogether are not worth a single page
of Seneca, and those huge volumes of theology, you may well imagine that neither I nor any
one else ever opens them."

Martin saw some shelves filled with English books.

"I have a notion," said he, "that a Republican must be greatly pleased with most of these books,
which are written with a spirit of freedom."

"Yes," answered Pococurante, "it is noble to write as one thinks; this is the privilege of
humanity. I should be pleased with the liberty which inspires the English genius if passion
and party spirit did not corrupt all that is estimable in this precious liberty."

Candide, observing a Milton, asked whether he did not look upon this author as a great man.

"Who?" said Pococurante, "that barbarian, who writes a long commentary in ten books of harsh
verse on the first chapter of Genesis; that coarse imitator of the Greeks, who disfigures the
Creation, and who, while Moses represents the Eternal producing the world by a word, makes
the Messiah take a great pair of compasses from the armoury of heaven to circumscribe His work?
Neither I nor any man in Italy could take pleasure in those melancholy extravagances; and the
marriage of Sin and Death, and the snakes brought forth by Sin, are enough to turn the stomach
of any one with the least taste, [and his long description of a pest-house is good only for
a grave-digger]. This obscure, whimsical, and disagreeable poem was despised upon its first
publication, and I only treat it now as it was treated in its own country by contemporaries.
For the matter of that I say what I think, and I care very little whether others think as I do."

"There would not be much harm in that," said Martin.

"Oh! what a superior man," said Candide below his breath. "What a great genius is this Pococurante!
Nothing can please him."

After their survey of the library they went down into the garden, where Candide praised its
several beauties.

"I know of nothing in so bad a taste," said the master. "All you see here is merely trifling.
After to-morrow I will have it planted with a nobler design."

"Well," said Candide to Martin when they had taken their leave, "you will agree that this is
the happiest of mortals, for he is above everything he possesses."

"But do you not see," answered Martin, "that he is disgusted with all he possesses? Plato observed
a long while ago that those stomachs are not the best that reject all sorts of food."

"It is always well to hope," said Martin.

However, the days and the weeks passed. Cacambo did not come, and Candide was so overwhelmed
with grief that he did not even reflect that Paquette and Friar Giroflée did not return to
thank him.

XXVI

OF A SUPPER WHICH CANDIDE AND MARTIN TOOK WITH SIX STRANGERS, AND WHO THEY WERE.[34]

One evening that Candide and Martin were going to sit down to supper with some foreigners who
lodged in the same inn, a man whose complexion was as black as soot, came behind Candide, and
taking him by the arm, said:

"Get yourself ready to go along with us; do not fail."

Upon this he turned round and saw--Cacambo! Nothing but the sight of Cunegonde could have astonished
and delighted him more. He was on the point of going mad with joy. He embraced his dear friend.

"Cunegonde is here, without doubt; where is she? Take me to her that I may die of joy in her
company."

"Cunegonde is not here," said Cacambo, "she is at Constantinople."

"Oh, heavens! at Constantinople! But were she in China I would fly thither; let us be off."

"We shall set out after supper," replied Cacambo. "I can tell you nothing more; I am a slave,
my master awaits me, I must serve him at table; speak not a word, eat, and then get ready."

Candide, distracted between joy and grief, delighted at seeing his faithful agent again, astonished
at finding him a slave, filled with the fresh hope of recovering his mistress, his heart palpitating,
his understanding confused, sat down to table with Martin, who saw all these scenes quite unconcerned,
and with six strangers who had come to spend the Carnival at Venice.

Cacambo waited at table upon one of the strangers; towards the end of the entertainment he
drew near his master, and whispered in his ear:

"Sire, your Majesty may start when you please, the vessel is ready."

On saying these words he went out. The company in great surprise looked at one another without
speaking a word, when another domestic approached his master and said to him:

"Sire, your Majesty's chaise is at Padua, and the boat is ready."

The master gave a nod and the servant went away. The company all stared at one another again,
and their surprise redoubled. A third valet came up to a third stranger, saying:

"Sire, believe me, your Majesty ought not to stay here any longer. I am going to get everything
ready."

And immediately he disappeared. Candide and Martin did not doubt that this was a masquerade
of the Carnival. Then a fourth domestic said to a fourth master:

"Your Majesty may depart when you please."

Saying this he went away like the rest. The fifth valet said the same thing to the fifth master.
But the sixth valet spoke differently to the sixth stranger, who sat near Candide. He said to him:

"Faith, Sire, they will no longer give credit to your Majesty nor to me, and we may perhaps
both of us be put in jail this very night. Therefore I will take care of myself. Adieu."

The servants being all gone, the six strangers, with Candide and Martin, remained in a profound
silence. At length Candide broke it.

"Gentlemen," said he, "this is a very good joke indeed, but why should you all be kings? For
me I own that neither Martin nor I is a king."

Cacambo's master then gravely answered in Italian:

"I am not at all joking. My name is Achmet III. I was Grand Sultan many years. I dethroned
my brother; my nephew dethroned me, my viziers were beheaded, and I am condemned to end my
days in the old Seraglio. My nephew, the great Sultan Mahmoud, permits me to travel sometimes
for my health, and I am come to spend the Carnival at Venice."

A young man who sat next to Achmet, spoke then as follows:

"My name is Ivan. I was once Emperor of all the Russias, but was dethroned in my cradle. My
parents were confined in prison and I was educated there; yet I am sometimes allowed to travel
in company with persons who act as guards; and I am come to spend the Carnival at Venice."

The third said:

"I am Charles Edward, King of England; my father has resigned all his legal rights to me. I
have fought in defence of them; and above eight hundred of my adherents have been hanged, drawn,
and quartered. I have been confined in prison; I am going to Rome, to pay a visit to the King,
my father, who was dethroned as well as myself and my grandfather, and I am come to spend the
Carnival at Venice."

The fourth spoke thus in his turn:

"I am the King of Poland; the fortune of war has stripped me of my hereditary dominions; my
father underwent the same vicissitudes; I resign myself to Providence in the same manner as
Sultan Achmet, the Emperor Ivan, and King Charles Edward, whom God long preserve; and I am
come to the Carnival at Venice."

The fifth said:

"I am King of Poland also; I have been twice dethroned; but Providence has given me another
country, where I have done more good than all the Sarmatian kings were ever capable of doing
on the banks of the Vistula; I resign myself likewise to Providence, and am come to pass the
Carnival at Venice."

It was now the sixth monarch's turn to speak:

"Gentlemen," said he, "I am not so great a prince as any of you; however, I am a king. I am
Theodore, elected King of Corsica; I had the title of Majesty, and now I am scarcely treated
as a gentleman. I have coined money, and now am not worth a farthing; I have had two secretaries
of state, and now I have scarce a valet; I have seen myself on a throne, and I have seen myself
upon straw in a common jail in London. I am afraid that I shall meet with the same treatment
here though, like your majesties, I am come to see the Carnival at Venice."

The other five kings listened to this speech with generous compassion. Each of them gave twenty
sequins to King Theodore to buy him clothes and linen; and Candide made him a present of a
diamond worth two thousand sequins.

"Who can this private person be," said the five kings to one another, "who is able to give,
and really has given, a hundred times as much as any of us?"

Just as they rose from table, in came four Serene Highnesses, who had also been stripped of
their territories by the fortune of war, and were come to spend the Carnival at Venice. But
Candide paid no regard to these newcomers, his thoughts were entirely employed on his voyage
to Constantinople, in search of his beloved Cunegonde.

XXVII

CANDIDE'S VOYAGE TO CONSTANTINOPLE.

The faithful Cacambo had already prevailed upon the Turkish skipper, who was to conduct the
Sultan Achmet to Constantinople, to receive Candide and Martin on his ship. They both embarked
after having made their obeisance to his miserable Highness.

"You see," said Candide to Martin on the way, "we supped with six dethroned kings, and of those
six there was one to whom I gave charity. Perhaps there are many other princes yet more unfortunate.
For my part, I have only lost a hundred sheep; and now I am flying into Cunegonde's arms. My
dear Martin, yet once more Pangloss was right: all is for the best."

"I wish it," answered Martin.

"But," said Candide, "it was a very strange adventure we met with at Venice. It has never before
been seen or heard that six dethroned kings have supped together at a public inn."

"It is not more extraordinary," said Martin, "than most of the things that have happened to
us. It is a very common thing for kings to be dethroned; and as for the honour we have had
of supping in their company, it is a trifle not worth our attention."

No sooner had Candide got on board the vessel than he flew to his old valet and friend Cacambo,
and tenderly embraced him.

"Well," said he, "what news of Cunegonde? Is she still a prodigy of beauty? Does she love me
still? How is she? Thou hast doubtless bought her a palace at Constantinople?"

"My dear master," answered Cacambo, "Cunegonde washes dishes on the banks of the Propontis,
in the service of a prince, who has very few dishes to wash; she is a slave in the family of
an ancient sovereign named Ragotsky,[35] to whom the Grand Turk allows three crowns a day in
his exile. But what is worse still is, that she has lost her beauty and has become horribly ugly."

"Well, handsome or ugly," replied Candide, "I am a man of honour, and it is my duty to love
her still. But how came she to be reduced to so abject a state with the five or six millions
that you took to her?"

"Ah!" said Cacambo, "was I not to give two millions to Senor Don Fernando d'Ibaraa, y Figueora,
y Mascarenes, y Lampourdos, y Souza, Governor of Buenos Ayres, for permitting Miss Cunegonde
to come away? And did not a corsair bravely rob us of all the rest? Did not this corsair carry
us to Cape Matapan, to Milo, to Nicaria, to Samos, to Petra, to the Dardanelles, to Marmora,
to Scutari? Cunegonde and the old woman serve the prince I now mentioned to you, and I am slave
to the dethroned Sultan."

"What a series of shocking calamities!" cried Candide. "But after all, I have some diamonds
left; and I may easily pay Cunegonde's ransom. Yet it is a pity that she is grown so ugly."

Then, turning towards Martin: "Who do you think," said he, "is most to be pitied--the Sultan
Achmet, the Emperor Ivan, King Charles Edward, or I?"

"How should I know!" answered Martin. "I must see into your hearts to be able to tell."

"Ah!" said Candide, "if Pangloss were here, he could tell."

"I know not," said Martin, "in what sort of scales your Pangloss would weigh the misfortunes
of mankind and set a just estimate on their sorrows. All that I can presume to say is, that
there are millions of people upon earth who have a hundred times more to complain of than King
Charles Edward, the Emperor Ivan, or the Sultan Achmet."

"That may well be," said Candide.

In a few days they reached the Bosphorus, and Candide began by paying a very high ransom for
Cacambo. Then without losing time, he and his companions went on board a galley, in order to
search on the banks of the Propontis for his Cunegonde, however ugly she might have become.

Among the crew there were two slaves who rowed very badly, and to whose bare shoulders the
Levantine captain would now and then apply blows from a bull's pizzle. Candide, from a natural
impulse, looked at these two slaves more attentively than at the other oarsmen, and approached
them with pity. Their features though greatly disfigured, had a slight resemblance to those
of Pangloss and the unhappy Jesuit and Westphalian Baron, brother to Miss Cunegonde. This moved
and saddened him. He looked at them still more attentively.

"Indeed," said he to Cacambo, "if I had not seen Master Pangloss hanged, and if I had not had
the misfortune to kill the Baron, I should think it was they that were rowing."

At the names of the Baron and of Pangloss, the two galley-slaves uttered a loud cry, held fast
by the seat, and let drop their oars. The captain ran up to them and redoubled his blows with
the bull's pizzle.

"Stop! stop! sir," cried Candide. "I will give you what money you please."

"What! it is Candide!" said one of the slaves.

"What! it is Candide!" said the other.

