STOLEN TREASURE

BY

HOWARD PYLE

Author of "Men of Iron" "Twilight Land" "The Wonder Clock" "Pepper and Salt"

ILLUSTRATED BY THE AUTHOR

MCMVII

CONTENTS

I. WITH THE BUCCANEERS

II. TOM CHIST AND THE TREASURE-BOX

III. THE GHOST OF CAPTAIN BRAND

IV. THE DEVIL AT NEW HOPE

ILLUSTRATIONS

"'I'VE KEPT MY EARS OPEN TO ALL YOUR DOINGS'"

"THIS FIGURE OF WAR OUR HERO ASKED TO STEP ASIDE WITH HIM"

"OUR HERO, LEAPING TO THE WHEEL, SEIZED THE FLYING SPOKES"

"SHE AND MASTER HARRY WOULD SPEND HOURS TOGETHER"

"'... AND TWENTY-ONE AND TWENTY-TWO'"

"''TIS ENOUGH,' CRIED OUT PARSON JONES, 'TO MAKE US BOTH RICH MEN'"

"CAPTAIN MALYOE SHOT CAPTAIN BRAND THROUGH THE HEAD"

"HE WOULD SHOUT OPPROBRIOUS WORDS AFTER THE OTHER IN THE STREETS" What a deal of gold braid!

II.

It was no longer there.

III. THE GHOST OF CAPTAIN BRAND

Being a Narrative of Certain Extraordinary Adventures that Befell Barnaby True, Esquire, of
the Town of New York, in the Year 1753.

I

It is not so easy to tell why discredit should be cast upon a man because of something his
grandfather may have done amiss, but the world, which is never over-nice in its discrimination
as to where to lay the blame, is often pleased to make the innocent suffer instead of the guilty.

Barnaby True was a good, honest boy, as boys go, but yet was he not ever allowed altogether
to forget that his grandfather had been that very famous pirate, Captain William Brand, who,
after so many marvellous adventures (if one may believe the catchpenny stories and ballads
that were writ about him), was murdered in Jamaica by Captain John Malyoe, the commander of
his own consort, the Adventure galley.

At the time when Captain Brand so met his fate in Port Royal Harbor he had increased his flotilla
to two vessels--the Royal Sovereign (which was the vessel that had been fitted out for him
in New York, a fine brigantine and a good sailer), and the Adventure galley, which he had captured
somewhere in the South Seas. This latter vessel he placed in command of a certain John Malyoe
whom he had picked up no one knows where--a young man of very good family in England, who had
turned red-handed pirate. This man, who took no more thought of a human life than he would
of a broom straw, was he who afterwards murdered Captain Brand, as you shall presently hear.

With these two vessels, the Royal Sovereign and the Adventure, Captain Brand and Captain Malyoe
swept the Mozambique Channel as clear as a boatswain's whistle, and after three years of piracy,
having gained a great booty of gold and silver and pearls, sailed straight for the Americas,
making first the island of Jamaica and the harbor of Port Royal, where they dropped anchor
to wait for news from home.

But by this time the authorities had been so stirred up against our pirates that it became
necessary for them to hide their booty until such time as they might make their peace with
the Admiralty Courts at home. So one night Captain Brand and Captain Malyoe, with two others
of the pirates, went ashore with two great chests of treasure, which they buried somewhere
on the banks of the Cobra River near the place where the old Spanish fort had stood.

What happened after the treasure was thus buried no one may tell. 'Twas said that Captain Brand
and Captain Malyoe fell a-quarrelling and that the upshot of the matter was that Captain Malyoe
shot Captain Brand through the head, and that the pirate who was with him served Captain Brand's
companion after the same fashion with a pistol bullet through the body.

After that the two murderers returned to their vessel, the Adventure galley, and sailed away,
carrying the bloody secret of the buried treasure with them.

But this double murder of Captain Brand and his companion happened, you are to understand,
some twenty years before the time of this story, and while our hero was but one year old. So
now to our present history.

There was a clump of wide beech-trees at that place, with a fine shade and a place to lay their
clothes while they swam about, splashing with their naked white bodies in the water. At these
times Master Barnaby would bawl as lustily and laugh as loud as though his grandfather had
been the most honest ship-chandler in the town, instead of a bloody-handed pirate who had been
murdered in his sins.

Ah! It is a fine thing to look back to the days when one was a boy! Barnaby may remember how,
often, when he and his companions were paddling so in the water, the soldiers off duty would
come up from the fort and would maybe join them in the water, others, perhaps, standing in
their red coats on the shore, looking on and smoking their pipes of tobacco.

But to resume our story.

When Barnaby True was between sixteen and seventeen years old he was taken into employment
in the counting-house of his stepfather, Mr. Roger Hartright, the well-known West Indian merchant,
a most respectable man and one of the kindest and best of friends that anybody could have in
the world.

This good gentleman had courted the favor of Barnaby's mother for a long time before he had
married her. Indeed, he had so courted her before she had ever thought of marrying Jonathan
True. But he not venturing to ask her in marriage, and she being a brisk, handsome woman, she
chose the man who spoke out his mind, and so left the silent lover out in the cold. But so
soon as she was a widow and free again, Mr. Hartright resumed his wooing, and so used to come
down every Tuesday and Friday evening to sit and talk with her. Among Barnaby True's earliest
memories was a recollection of the good, kind gentleman sitting in old Captain Brand's double-nailed
arm-chair, the sunlight shining across his knees, over which he had spread a great red silk
handkerchief, while he sipped a dish of tea with a dash of rum in it. He kept up this habit
of visiting the Widow True for a long time before he could fetch himself to the point of asking
anything more particular of her, and so Barnaby was nigh fourteen years old before Mr. Hartright
married her, and so became our hero's dear and honored foster-father. He would give to Barnaby
the best sort of letters of introduction, so that the correspondents of Mr. Hartright throughout
those parts, seeing how that gentleman had adopted our hero's interests as his own, were always
at considerable pains to be very polite and obliging in showing every attention to him.

Especially among these gentlemen throughout the West Indies may be mentioned Mr. Ambrose Greenfield,
a merchant of excellent standing who lived at Kingston, Jamaica. This gentleman was very particular
to do all that he could to make our hero's stay in these parts as agreeable and pleasant to
him as might be. Mr. Greenfield is here spoken of with a greater degree of particularity than
others who might as well be remarked upon, because, as the reader shall presently discover
for himself, it was through the offices of this good friend that our hero first became acquainted,
not only with that lady who afterwards figured with such conspicuousness in his affairs, but
also with a man who, though graced with a title, was perhaps the greatest villain who ever
escaped a just fate upon the gallows.

So much for the history of Barnaby True up to the beginning of this story, without which you
shall hardly be able to understand the purport of those most extraordinary adventures that
afterwards befell him, nor the logic of their consequence after they had occurred.

II

Upon the occasion of our hero's fifth voyage into the West Indies he made a stay of some six
or eight weeks at Kingston, in the island of Jamaica, and it was at that time that the first
of those extraordinary adventures befell him, concerning which this narrative has to relate.

It was Barnaby's habit, when staying at Kingston, to take lodging with a very decent, respectable
widow, by name Mrs. Anne Bolles, who, with three extremely agreeable and pleasant daughters,
kept a very clean and well-served house for the accommodation of strangers visiting that island.

One morning as he sat sipping his coffee, clad only in loose cotton drawers and a jacket of
the same material, and with slippers upon his feet (as is the custom in that country, where
every one endeavors to keep as cool as may be), Miss Eliza, the youngest of the three daughters--a
brisk, handsome miss of sixteen or seventeen--came tripping into the room and handed him a
sealed letter, which she declared a stranger had just left at the door, departing incontinently
so soon as he had eased himself of that commission. You may conceive of Barnaby's astonishment
when he opened the note and read the remarkable words that here follow:

"Mr. Barnaby True. Sir, this is the most important thing that can concern you, so you will
please say nothing to nobody about it."

Such was the wording of the note which was writ in as cramped and villanous handwriting as
our hero ever beheld, and which, excepting his own name, was without address, and which possessed
no superscription whatever.

The first emotion that stirred Barnaby True was one of extreme and profound astonishment; the
second thought that came into his mind was that maybe some witty fellow--of whom he knew a
good many in that place, and wild, mad rakes they were as ever the world beheld--was attempting
to play off a smart, witty jest upon him. Indeed, Miss Eliza Bolles, who was of a lively, mischievous
temper, was not herself above playing such a prank should the occasion offer. With this thought
in his mind Barnaby inquired of her with a good deal of particularity concerning the appearance
and condition of the man who had left the note, to all of which Miss replied with so straight
a face and so candid an air that he could no longer suspect her of being concerned in any trick
against him, and so eased his mind of any such suspicion.

This he did, and that gentleman's opinion was the same as his: to wit, that some wag was minded
to play off a hoax upon him, and that the matter of the letter was all nothing but smoke.

It was not far from half after the hour when a row-boat came suddenly out of the night and
pulled up to the landing-place at the foot of the garden, and three or four men came ashore
in the darkness. They landed very silently and walked up the garden pathway without saying
a word, and, sitting down at an adjacent table, ordered rum and water and began drinking among
themselves, speaking every now and then a word or two in a tongue that Barnaby did not well
understand, but which, from certain phrases they let fall, he suspected to be Portuguese. Our
hero paid no great attention to them, till by-and-by he became aware that they had fallen to
whispering together and were regarding him very curiously. He felt himself growing very uneasy
under this observation, which every moment grew more and more particular, and he was just beginning
to suspect that this interest concerning himself might have somewhat more to do with him than
mere idle curiosity, when one of the men, who was plainly the captain of the party, suddenly
says to him, "How now, messmate; won't you come and have a drop of drink with us?"

At this address Barnaby instantly began to be aware that the affair he had come upon was indeed
no jest, as he had supposed it to be, but that he had walked into what promised to be a very
pretty adventure. Nevertheless, not wishing to be too hasty in his conclusions, he answered
very civilly that he had drunk enough already, and that more would only heat his blood.

"Well," says the stranger, "I may be mistook, but I believe you are Mr. Barnaby True."

"You are right, sir, and that is my name," acknowledged Barnaby. "But still I cannot guess
how that may concern you, nor why it should be a reason for my drinking with you." "That I
will presently tell you," says the stranger, very composedly. "Your name concerns me because
I was sent here to tell Mr. Barnaby True that 'the Royal Sovereign is come in.'"

To be sure our hero's heart jumped into his throat at those words. His pulse began beating
at a tremendous rate, for here, indeed, was an adventure suddenly opening to him such as a
man may read about in a book, but which he may hardly expect to befall him in the real happenings
of his life.

At this the other burst out a-laughing. "Indeed," says he, "you are a cool blade, and a chip
of the old block. But harkee, young gentleman," and here he fell serious again. "This is too
weighty a business to chance any mistake in a name. I believe that you are, as you say, Mr.
Barnaby True; but, nevertheless, to make perfectly sure, I must ask you first to show me a
note that you have about you and which you are instructed to show to me."

"Very well," said Barnaby; "I have it here safe and sound, and you shall see it." And thereupon
and without more ado he drew out his wallet, opened it, and handed the other the mysterious
note which he had kept carefully by him ever since he had received it. Say 'No,' and I go away,
and I promise you you shall never be troubled more in this sort of a way. So now speak up plain,
young gentleman, and tell us what is your wish in this business, and whether you will adventure
any further or no." So now if you are prepared and have made up your mind and are determined
to see this affair through to the end, 'tis time for us to be away." As for the town and the
Ordinary he had quitted such a short time before, so different were they from this present
experience, it was as though they might have concerned another life than that which he was
then enjoying.

Meantime, the rowers bending to the oars, the boat drew slowly around into the open water once
more. As it did so the leader of the expedition of a sudden called out in a loud, commanding
voice, whereat the black men instantly ceased rowing and lay on their oars, the boat drifting
onward into the night.

At the same moment of time our hero became aware of another boat coming down the river towards
where they lay. This other boat, approaching thus strangely through the darkness, was full
of men, some of them armed; for even in the distance Barnaby could not but observe that the
light of the moon glimmered now and then as upon the barrels of muskets or pistols. This threw
him into a good deal of disquietude of mind, for whether they or this boat were friends or
enemies, or as to what was to happen next, he was altogether in the dark. Then come and take
it." And thereat, as he sat down again, burst out a-laughing as though what he had said was
the wittiest jest conceivable.

Either because he respected the armed men in the other boat, or else for some reason best known
to himself, the Captain of our hero's expedition did not immediately reply, but sat as still
as any stone. But at last, the other boat having drifted pretty far away, he suddenly found
words to shout out after it: "Very well, Jack Malyoe! Very well, Jack Malyoe! You've got the
better of us once more. But next time is the third, and then it'll be our turn, even if William
Brand must come back from the grave to settle with you himself."

But to this my fine gentleman in t'other boat made no reply except to burst out once more into
a great fit of laughter.

There was, however, still another man in the stern of the enemy's boat--a villanous, lean man
with lantern-jaws, and the top of his head as bald as an apple. But the other forbade him,
and therewith the boat presently melted away into the darkness of the night and was gone.

This happened all in a few seconds, so that before our hero understood what was passing he
found the boat in which he still sat drifting silently in the moonlight (for no one spoke for
awhile) and the oars of the other boat sounding farther and farther away into the distance.

By-and-by says one of those in Barnaby's boat, in Spanish, "Where shall you go now?"

At this the leader of the expedition appeared suddenly to come back to himself and to find
his tongue again. "Go?" he roared out. "Go to the devil! Go? Go where you choose! Go? Go back
again--that's where well go!" The moonlight and the night appeared to have taken upon them
a new and singular aspect, and he walked up the street towards his lodging like one drunk or
in a dream. And yet these names he had heard spoken--the one from one boat, and the other from
the other, so that he could not but wonder what sort of beings they were among whom he had fallen.

As to that box covered all over with mud, he could only offer a conjecture as to what it contained
and as to what the finding of it signified.

But of this our hero said nothing to any one, nor did he tell any one what he suspected, for,
though he was so young in years, he possessed a continent disposition inherited from his father
(who had been one of ten children born to a poor but worthy Presbyterian minister of Bluefield,
Connecticut), so it was that not even to his good friend Mr. Greenfield did Barnaby say a word
as to what had happened to him, going about his business the next day as though nothing of
moment had occurred.

But he was not destined yet to be done with those beings among whom he had fallen that night;
for that which he supposed to be the ending of the whole affair was only the beginning of further
adventures that were soon to befall him. To this pleasant house Barnaby True was often asked
to a family dinner, after which he and his good kind host would maybe sit upon the veranda,
looking out towards the mountain, smoking their cigarros while the young ladies laughed and
talked, or played upon the guitar and sang. "I would," says Mr. Greenfield, "have you meet
Sir John Malyoe and Miss Marjorie, who are to be your chief passengers for New York, and for
whom the state cabin and the two state-rooms are to be fitted as here ordered"--showing a letter--"for
Sir John hath arranged," says Mr. Greenfield, "for the Captain's own state-room."

Then, not being aware of Barnaby True's history, nor that Captain Brand was his grandfather,
the good gentleman--calling Sir John "Jack" Malyoe--goes on to tell our hero what a famous
pirate he had been, and how it was he who had shot Captain Brand over t'other side of the harbor
twenty years before. "Yes," says he, "'tis the same Jack Malyoe, though grown into repute and
importance now, as who would not who hath had the good-fortune to fall heir to a baronetcy
and a landed estate?"

And so it befell that same night that Barnaby True once again beheld the man who had murdered
his own grandfather, meeting him this time face to face.

But if Sir John Malyoe suited our hero's taste so ill, the granddaughter was in the same degree
pleasing to him. A sweet, timid creature, who appeared not to dare so much as to speak a word
for herself without looking to that great beast, her grandfather, for leave to do so, for she
would shrink and shudder whenever he would speak of a sudden to her or direct a glance upon
her. When she did pluck up sufficient courage to say anything, it was in so low a voice that
Barnaby was obliged to bend his head to hear her; and when she smiled she would as like as
not catch herself short and look up as though to see if she did amiss to be cheerful.

As for Sir John, he sat at dinner and gobbled and ate and drank, smacking his lips all the
while, but with hardly a word of civility either to Mr. Greenfield or to Mrs. Greenfield or
to Barnaby True; but wearing all the while a dull, sullen air, as though he would say, "Your
damned victuals and drink are no better than they should be, but, such as they are, I must
eat 'em or eat nothing."

Such were Sir John Malyoe and his man, and the ill opinion our hero conceived of them was only
confirmed by further observation. Therewith he turned and walked away with prodigious dignity,
leaving the other standing where he was. Barnaby True was standing in the saloon as they passed
close by him; but though Sir John looked hard at him and straight in the face, he never so
much as spoke a single word to our hero, or showed by a look or a sign that he had ever met
him before. This he did with a great deal of satisfaction to himself--as any one may suppose
who considers a spirited young man of one-and-twenty years of age and a sweet and beautiful
young miss of seventeen or eighteen thrown thus together day after day for above two weeks.

Accordingly, the weather being very fair and the ship driving freely along before a fine breeze,
and they having no other occupation than to sit talking together all day, gazing at the blue
sea and the bright sky overhead, it is not difficult to conceive of what was to befall.

But oh, those days when a man is young and, whether wisely or no, fallen into such a transport
of passion as poor Barnaby True suffered at that time! How often during that voyage did our
hero lie awake in his berth at night, tossing this way and that without finding any refreshment
of sleep--perhaps all because her hand had touched his, or because she had spoken some word
to him that had possessed him with a ravishing disquietude?

All this might not have befallen him had Sir John Malyoe looked after his granddaughter instead
of locking himself up day and night in his own cabin, scarce venturing out except to devour
his food or maybe to take two or three turns across the deck before returning again to the
care of those chests he appeared to hold so much more precious than his own flesh and blood.

Nor was it to be supposed that Barnaby would take the pains to consider what was to become
of it all, for what young man so situated as he but would be perfectly content to live so agreeably
in a fool's paradise, satisfying himself by assigning the whole affair to the future to take
care of itself. Accordingly, our hero endeavored, and with pretty good success, to put away
from him whatever doubts might arise in his own mind concerning what he was about, satisfying
himself with making his conversation as agreeable to his companion as it lay in his power to do.

So the affair continued until the end of the whole business came with a suddenness that promised
for a time to cast our hero into the utmost depths of humiliation and despair.

At that time the Belle Helen was, according to Captain Manly's reckoning, computed that day
at noon, bearing about five-and-fifty leagues northeast-by-east off the harbor of Charleston,
in South Carolina.

Nor was our hero likely to forget for many years afterwards even the smallest circumstance
of that occasion. He may remember that it was a mightily sweet, balmy evening, the sun not
having set above half an hour before, and the sky still suffused with a good deal of brightness,
the air being extremely soft and mild. He may remember with the utmost nicety how they were
leaning over the rail of the vessel looking out towards the westward, she fallen mightily quiet
as though occupied with very serious thoughts.

Of a sudden she began, without any preface whatever, to speak to Barnaby about herself and
her affairs, in a most confidential manner, such as she had never used to him before. She told
him that she and her grandfather were going to New York that they might take passage thence
to Boston, in Massachusetts, where they were to meet her cousin Captain Malyoe, who was stationed
in garrison at that place. Continuing, she said that Captain Malyoe was the next heir to the
Devonshire estate, and that she and he were to be married in the fall.

You may conceive into what a confusion of distress such a confession as this, delivered so
suddenly, must have cast poor Barnaby. He could answer her not a single word, but stood staring
in another direction than hers, endeavoring to compose himself into some equanimity of spirit.
For indeed it was a sudden, terrible blow, and his breath came as hot and dry as ashes in his
throat. Meanwhile the young lady went on to say, though in a mightily constrained voice, that
she had liked him from the very first moment she had seen him, and had been very happy for
these days she had passed in his society, and that she would always think of him as a dear
friend who had been very kind to her, who had so little pleasure in her life.

As he looked he beheld this fellow go straight to the great cabin, where he disappeared with
a cunning leer upon his face, so that our hero could not but be aware that the purpose of the
eavesdropper must be to communicate all that he had overheard to his master. At this thought
the last drop of bitterness was added to his trouble, for what could be more distressing to
any man of honor than to possess the consciousness that such a wretch should have overheard
so sacred a conversation as that which he had enjoyed with the young lady. She, upon her part,
could not have been aware that the man had listened to what she had been saying, for she still
continued leaning over the rail, and Barnaby remained standing by her side, without moving,
but so distracted by a tumult of many passions that he knew not how or where to look.

After a pretty long time of this silence, the young lady looked up to see why her companion
had not spoken for so great a while, and at that very moment Sir John Malyoe comes flinging
out of the cabin without his hat, but carrying his gold-headed cane. He ran straight across
the deck towards where Barnaby and the young lady stood, swinging his cane this way and that
with a most furious and threatening countenance, while the informer, grinning like an ape,
followed close at his heels. As Sir John approached them, he cried out in so loud a voice that
all on deck might have heard him, "You hussy!" (And all the time, you are to remember, he was
swinging his cane as though he would have struck the young lady, who, upon her part, shrank
back from him almost upon the deck as though to escape such a blow.) "You hussy! What do you
do here, talking with a misbred Yankee supercargo not fit for a gentlewoman to wipe her feet
upon, and you stand there and listen to his fool talk! Go to your room, you hussy"--only 'twas
something worse he called her this time--"before I lay this cane across you!"

You may suppose into what fury such words as these, spoken in Barnaby's hearing, not to mention
that vile slur set upon himself, must have cast our hero.

A little farther and Sir John would have fallen flat upon the deck with the push Barnaby gave
him. But he contrived, by catching hold of the rail, to save his balance. At the same time
Captain Manly and the first mate, Mr. Freesden, came running out of the cabin. As for our hero,
having got set agoing, he was not to be stopped so easily.

"And who are you, anyhow," he cries, his voice mightily hoarse even in his own ears, "to threaten
to strike me! You may be a bloody pirate, and you may shoot a man from behind, as you shot
poor Captain Brand on the Cobra River, but you won't dare strike me face to face. I know who
you are and what you are!"

As for Sir John Malyoe, had he been struck of a sudden by palsy, he could not have stopped
more dead short in his attack upon our hero. There he stood, his great, bulging eyes staring
like those of a fish, his face as purple as a cherry. As for Master Informer, Barnaby had the
satisfaction of seeing that he had stopped his grinning by now and was holding his master's
arm as though to restrain him from any further act of violence.

By this time Captain Manly had come bustling up and demanded to know what all the disturbance
meant. Whereupon our hero cried out, still in the extremity of passion:

"The villain insulted me and insulted the young lady; he threatened to strike me with his cane.
But he sha'n't strike me. I know who he is and what he is. I know what he's got in his cabin
in those two trunks, and I know where he found it, and whom it belongs to." I'll have no such
rioting as this aboard my ship."

By this time, as you may suppose, the young lady was gone. As for Sir John Malyoe, he stood
in the light of a lantern, his face that had been so red now gone as white as ashes, and if
a look could kill, to be sure he would have destroyed Barnaby True where he stood.

It was thus that the events of that memorable day came to a conclusion. How little did any
of the actors of the scene suspect that a portentous Fate was overhanging them, and was so
soon to transform all their present circumstances into others that were to be perfectly different!

And how little did our hero suspect what was in store for him upon the morrow, as with hanging
head he went to his cabin, and shutting the door upon himself, and flinging himself down upon
his berth, there yielded himself over to the profoundest depths of humiliation and despair.

V

From his melancholy meditations Barnaby, by-and-by and in spite of himself, began dropping
off into a loose slumber, disturbed by extravagant dreams of all sorts, in which Sir John Malyoe
played some important and malignant part.

From one of these dreams he was aroused to meet a new and startling fate, by hearing the sudden
and violent explosion of a pistol-shot ring out as though in his ears. This was followed immediately
by the sound of several other shots exchanged in rapid succession as coming from the deck above.
At the same instant a blow of such excessive violence shook the Belle Helen that the vessel
heeled over before it, and Barnaby was at once aware that another craft--whether by accident
or with intention he did not know--must have run afoul of them.

Upon this point, and as to whether or not the collision was designed, he was, however, not
left a moment in doubt, for even as the Belle Helen righted to her true keel, there was the
sound of many footsteps running across the deck and down into the great cabin.

Long before this time Barnaby was out in the middle of his own cabin. All was as black as coal,
and the gloom was filled with a hubbub of uproar and confusion, above which sounded continually
the shrieking of women's voices.

In the light of the pistol fire, Barnaby had only sufficient opportunity to distinguish a flat
face wearing a large pair of mustachios, a cocked hat trimmed with gold lace, a red scarf,
and brass buttons. Then the darkness, very thick and black, again swallowed everything.

But if our hero failed to clearly perceive the countenance towards which he had discharged
his weapon, there was one who appeared to have recognized some likeness in it, for Sir John
Malyoe's voice, almost at Barnaby's elbow, cried out thrice in loud and violent tones, "William
Brand! William Brand! William Brand!" and thereat came the sound of some heavy body falling
down upon the deck.

This was the last that our hero may remember of that notable attack, for the next moment whether
by accident or design he never knew, he felt himself struck so terrible a blow upon the side
of the head, that he instantly swooned dead away and knew no more.

Upon hearing him speak, his attendants showed excessive signs of joy, nodding their heads and
smiling at him as though to reassure him.

So, still sick and dizzy, he went out into what he found was, indeed, a fine saloon beyond,
painted in white and gilt like the cabin he had just quitted. This saloon was fitted in the
most excellent taste imaginable. I says to him, 'Jack Malyoe,' says I, 'you've got the better
of us once again, but next time it will be our turn, even if William Brand himself has to come
back from the grave to settle with you.'"

"I remember something of the sort," said Barnaby, "but I profess I am all in the dark as to
what you are driving at."

At this the other burst out in a great fit of laughing. "Very well, then," said he, "this night's
work is only the ending of what was so ill begun there. Look yonder"--pointing to a corner
of the cabin--"and then maybe you will be in the dark no longer." Barnaby turned his head and
there beheld in the corner of the saloon those very two travelling-cases that Sir John Malyoe
had been so particular to keep in his cabin and under his own eyes through all the voyage from
Jamaica.

"I'll show you what is in 'em," says the other, and thereupon arose, and Barnaby with him,
and so went over to where the two travelling-cases stood.

Our hero had a strong enough suspicion as to what the cases contained.

"Well, and what do you think of that?" said the other. "Is it not enough for a man to turn
pirate for?" and thereupon burst out a-laughing and clapped down the lid again. Then suddenly
turning serious: "Come Master Barnaby," says he. "I am to have some very sober talk with you,
so fill up your glass again and then we will heave at it."

Nor even in after years, nor in the light of that which afterwards occurred, could Barnaby
repeat all that was said to him upon that occasion, for what with the pounding and beating
of his aching head, and what with the wonder of what he had seen, he was altogether in the
dark as to the greater part of what the other told him. That other began by saying that Barnaby,
instead of being sorry that he was William Brand's grandson, might thank God for it; that he
(Barnaby) had been watched and cared for for twenty years in more ways than he would ever know;
that Sir John Malyoe had been watched also for all that while, and that it was a vastly strange
thing that Sir John Malyoe's debts in England and Barnaby's coming of age should have brought
them so together in Jamaica--though, after all, it was all for the best, as Barnaby himself
should presently see, and thank God for that also. For now all the debts against that villain
Jack Malyoe were settled in full, principal and interest, to the last penny, and Barnaby was
to enjoy it the most of all. Here the fellow took a very comfortable sip of his grog, and then
went on to say with a very cunning and knowing wink of the eye that Barnaby was not the only
passenger aboard, but that there was another in whose company he would be glad enough, no doubt,
to finish the balance of the voyage he was now upon. So now, if Barnaby was sufficiently composed,
he should be introduced to that other passenger. Thereupon, without waiting for a reply, he
incontinently arose and, putting away the bottle of rum and the glasses, went across the saloon--Barnaby
watching him all the while like a man in a dream--and opened the door of a cabin like that
which Barnaby had occupied a little while before. He was gone only for a moment, for almost
immediately he came out again ushering a lady before him.

By now the daylight in the cabin was grown strong and clear, so that the light shining full
upon her face, Barnaby True knew her the instant she appeared.

It was Miss Marjorie Malyoe, very white, but strangely composed, showing no terror, either
in her countenance or in her expression.

    *    *    *    *    *

It would not be possible for the writer to give any clear idea of the circumstances of the
days that immediately followed, and which, within a week, brought Barnaby True and the enchanting
object of his affections at once to the ending of their voyage, and of all these marvellous
adventures. For when, in after times, our hero would endeavor to revive a memory of the several
occurrences that then transpired, they all appeared as though in a dream or a bewitching phantasm.

All that he could recall were long days of delicious enjoyment followed by nights of dreaming.
But how enchanting those days! How exquisite the distraction of those nights!

Upon occasions he and his charmer might sit together under the shade of the sail for an hour
at a stretch, he holding her hand in his and neither saying a single word, though at times
the transports of poor Barnaby's emotions would go far to suffocate him with their rapture.
As for her face at such moments, it appeared sometimes to assume a transparency as though of
a light shining from behind her countenance. And all these spoke together a jargon of which
Barnaby True could not understand a single word, but which might have been Portuguese from
one or two phrases he afterwards remembered. Only he who was commander of this strange craft,
when he would come down into the saloon to mix a glass of grog or to light a pipe of tobacco,
would maybe favor Barnaby with a few words concerning the weather or something of the sort,
and then to go on deck again about his business.

Indeed, it may be affirmed with pretty easy security that no such adventure as this ever happened
before; for here were these two innocent young creatures upon board of a craft that no one,
under such circumstances as those recounted above, could doubt was a pirate or buccaneer, the
crew whereof had seen no one knows what wicked deeds; yet they two as remote from all that
and as profoundly occupied with the transports of their passion and as innocent in their satisfaction
thereof as were Corydon and Phyllis beside their purling streams and flowery meads, with nymphs
and satyrs caracoling about them.

VIII

It is probable that the polite reader of this veracious narrative, instead of considering it
as the effort of the author to set before him a sober and well-digested history, has been all
this while amusing himself by regarding it only as a fanciful tale designed for his entertainment.
If this be so, the writer may hardly hope to convince him that what is to follow is a serious
narrative of that which, though never so ingenuous in its recapitulation, is an altogether
inexplicable phenomenon. Accordingly, it is with extraordinary hesitation that the scribe now
invites the confidence of his reader in the succinct truth of that which he has to relate.
It is in brief as follows:

That upon the last night of this part of his voyage, Barnaby True was awakened from slumber
by flashes of lightning shining into his cabin, and by the loud pealing of approaching thunder.
At the same time observing the sound of footsteps moving back and forth as in great agitation
overhead, and the loud shouting of orders, he became aware that a violent squall of wind must
be approaching the vessel. Being convinced of this he arose from his berth, dressed quickly,
and hurried upon deck, where he found a great confusion of men running hither and thither and
scrambling up and down the rigging like monkeys, while the Captain, and one whom he had come
to know as the Captain's mate, were shouting out orders in a strange foreign jargon.

A storm was indeed approaching with great rapidity, a prodigious circle of rain and clouds
whirling overhead like smoke, while the lightning, every now and then, flashed with intense
brightness, followed by loud peals of thunder.

By these flashes of lightning Barnaby observed that they had made land during the night, for
in the sudden glare of bright light he beheld a mountainous headland and a long strip of sandy
beach standing out against the blackness of the night beyond. So much he was able to distinguish,
though what coast it might be he could not tell, for presently another flash falling from the
sky, he saw that the shore was shut out by the approaching downfall of rain.

This rain came presently streaming down upon them with a great gust of wind and a deal of white
foam across the water. This violent gale of wind suddenly striking the vessel, careened it
to one side so that for a moment it was with much ado that he was able to keep his feet at
all. Indeed, what with the noise of the tempest through the rigging and the flashes of lightning
and the pealing of the thunder and the clapping of an unfurled sail in the darkness, and the
shouting of orders in a strange language by the Captain of the craft, who was running up and
down like a bedlamite, it was like pandemonium with all the devils of the pit broke loose into
the night.

It was at this moment, and Barnaby True was holding to the back-stays, when a sudden, prolonged
flash of lightning came after a continued space of darkness. So sharp and heavy was this shaft
that for a moment the night was as bright as day, and in that instant occurred that which was
so remarkable that it hath afforded the title of this story itself. For there, standing plain
upon the deck and not far from the companionway, as though he had just come up from below,
our hero beheld a figure the face of which he had seen so imperfectly once before by the flash
of his own pistol in the darkness. Upon this occasion, however, the whole figure was stamped
out with intense sharpness against the darkness, and Barnaby beheld, as clear as day, a great
burly man, clad in a tawdry tinsel coat, with a cocked hat with gold braid upon his head. His
legs, with petticoat breeches and cased in great leathern sea-boots pulled up to his knees,
stood planted wide apart as though to brace against the slant of the deck. The face our hero
beheld to be as white as dough, with fishy eyes and a bony forehead, on the side of which was
a great smear as of blood.

All this, as was said, stood out as sharp and clear as daylight in that one flash of lightning,
and then upon the instant was gone again, as though swallowed up into the darkness, while a
terrible clap of thunder seemed to split the very heavens overhead and a strong smell as of
brimstone filled the air around about.

At the same moment some voice cried out from the darkness, "William Brand, by God!"

Then, the rain clapping down in a deluge, Barnaby leaped into the saloon, pursued by he knew
not what thoughts. For if that was indeed the image of old William Brand that he had seen once
before and now again, then the grave must indeed have gaped and vomited out its dead into the
storm of wind and lightning; for what he beheld that moment, he hath ever averred, he saw as
clear as ever he saw his hand before his face.

This is the last account of which there is any record when the figure of Captain William Brand
was beheld by the eyes of a living man. It must have occurred just off the Highlands below
the Sandy Hook, for the next morning when Barnaby True came upon deck it was to find the sun
shining brightly and the brigantine riding upon an even keel, at anchor off Staten Island,
three or four cable-lengths distance from a small village on the shore, and the town of New
York in plain sight across the water.

'Twas the last place in the world he had expected to see. What was so taken up to the town
Barnaby did not then guess, nor did he for a moment suspect of what vast importance it was
to be for him.

About sundown the small boat returned, fetching the pirate Captain of the brigantine back again.
Coming aboard and finding Barnaby on deck, the other requested him to come down into the saloon
for he had a few serious words to say to him. So soon as he had composed himself the Captain
began very seriously, with a preface somewhat thus: "Though you may think me the Captain of
this brigantine, Master Barnaby True, I am not really so, but am under orders of a superior
whom I have obeyed in all these things that I have done." Having said so much as this, he continued
his address to say that there was one thing yet remaining for him to do, and that the greatest
thing of all.

He said that this was something that both Barnaby and the young lady were to be called upon
to perform, and he hoped that they would do their part willingly; but that whether they did
it willingly or no, do it they must, for those also were the orders he had received.

You may guess how our hero was disturbed by this prologue. He had found the young lady's hand
beneath the table and he now held it very closely in his own; but whatever might have been
his expectations as to the final purport of the communications the other was about to favor
him with, his most extreme expectations could not have equalled that which was demanded of
him. That is the last thing I am set to do; so now I will leave you and her young ladyship
alone together for five minutes to talk it over, but be quick about it, for whether willing
or not, this thing must be done."

Thereupon he incontinently went away, as he had promised, leaving those two alone together,
our hero like one turned into stone, and the young lady, her face turned away, as red as fire,
as Barnaby could easily distinguish by the fading light.

Nor can I tell what Barnaby said to her, nor what words or arguments he used, for so great
was the distraction of his mind and the tumult of his emotions that he presently discovered
that he was repeating to her over and over again that God knew he loved her, and that with
all his heart and soul, and that there was nothing in all the world for him but her. Nor did
he know what she replied to him, only that she would marry him. Therewith he took her into
his arms and for the first time set his lips to hers, in such a transport of ecstasy that everything
seemed to his sight as though he were about to swoon.

So when the Captain returned to the saloon he found Barnaby sitting there holding her hand,
she with her face turned away, and he so full of joy that the promise of heaven could not have
made him happier. Reaching the shore, they landed, and walked up the village street in the
twilight, she clinging to our hero's arm as though she would faint away.

The same sail-boat that had taken the Captain up to the town was waiting for Barnaby and the
young lady as they came down to the landing-place. There the Captain of the brigantine having
wished them godspeed, and having shaken Barnaby very heartily by the hand, he helped to push
off the boat, which with the slant of the wind presently sailed swiftly away, dropping the
shore and those strange beings, and the brigantine in which they sailed, alike behind them
into the night.

They could hear through the darkness the creaking of the sails being hoisted aboard of the
pirate vessel; nor did Barnaby True ever set eyes upon it or the crew again, nor, so far as
the writer is informed, did anybody else.

X

It was nigh midnight when they made Mr. Hartright's wharf at the foot of Beaver Street. There
Barnaby and the boatmen assisted the young lady ashore, and our hero and she walked up through
the now silent and deserted street to Mr. Hartright's house.

It was with difficulty that our hero could believe his eyes when he beheld one of the treasure-chests
that Sir John Malyoe had fetched with such particularity from Jamaica.

He bade his step-father hold the light nigher, and then, his mother having come down-stairs
by this time, he flung back the lid and displayed to the dazzled sight of all the great treasure
therein contained.

You are to suppose that there was no sleep for any of them that night, for what with Barnaby's
narrative of his adventures, and what with the thousand questions asked of him, it was broad
daylight before he had finished the half of all that he had to relate.

It is thus we reach the conclusion of our history, with only this to observe, that whether
that strange appearance of Captain Brand was indeed a ghostly and spiritual visitation, or
whether he was present on those two occasions in flesh and blood, he was, as has been said,
never heard of again.

IV. A TRUE HISTORY OF THE DEVIL AT NEW HOPE

At the time of the beginning of the events about to be narrated--which the reader is to be
informed occurred between the years 1740 and 1742-- there stood upon the high and rugged crest
of Pick-a-Neck-a-Sock Point (or Pig and Sow Point, as it had come to be called) the wooden
ruins of a disused church, known throughout those parts as the Old Free Grace Meeting-house.

This humble edifice had been erected by a peculiar religious sect calling themselves the Free
Grace Believers, the radical tenet of whose creed was a denial of the existence of such a place
as Hell, and an affirmation of the universal mercy of God, to the intent that all souls should
enjoy eternal happiness in the life to come.

For this dangerous heresy the Free Grace Believers were expelled from the Massachusetts Colony,
and, after sundry peregrinations, settled at last in the Providence Plantations, upon Pick-a-Neck-a-Sock
Point, coadjacent to the town of New Hope. There they built themselves a small cluster of huts,
and a church wherein to worship; and there for a while they dwelt, earning a precarious livelihood
from the ungenerous soil upon which they had established themselves.

As may be supposed, the presence of so strange a people was entertained with no great degree
of complaisance by the vicinage, and at last an old deed granting Pick-a-Neck-a-Sock to Captain
Isaiah Applebody was revived by the heirs of that renowned Indian-fighter, whereupon the Free
Grace Believers were warned to leave their bleak and rocky refuge for some other abiding-place.
Accordingly, driven forth into the world again, they embarked in the snow[1] "Good Companion,"
of Bristol, for the Province of Pennsylvania, and were afterwards heard of no more in those
parts. Their vacated houses crumbled away into ruins, and their church tottered to decay.

[Footnote 1: A two-masted square-rigged vessel.]

So at the beginning of these events, upon the narrative of which the author now invites the
reader to embark together with himself.

I

HOW THE DEVIL HAUNTED THE MEETING-HOUSE

At the period of this narrative the settlement of New Hope had grown into a very considerable
seaport town, doing an extremely handsome trade with the West Indies in cornmeal and dried
codfish for sugar, molasses, and rum.

Among the more important citizens of this now wealthy and elegant community, the most notable
was Colonel William Belford--a magnate at once distinguished and honored in the civil and military
affairs of the colony. This gentleman was an illegitimate son of the Earl of Clandennie by
the daughter of a surgeon of the Sixty-seventh Regiment of Scots, and he had inherited a very
considerable fortune upon the death of his father, from which he now enjoyed a comfortable
competency.

Our Colonel made no little virtue of the circumstances of his exalted birth. He was wont to
address his father's memory with a sobriety that lent to the fact of his illegitimacy a portentous
air of seriousness, and he made no secret of the fact that he was the friend and the confidential
correspondent of the present Earl of Clandennie. In his intercourse with the several Colonial
governors he assumed an attitude of authority that only his lineage could have supported him
in maintaining, and, possessing a large and commanding presence, he bore himself with a continent
reserve that never failed to inspire with awe those whom he saw fit to favor with his conversation.

This noble and distinguished gentleman possessed in a brother an exact and perfect opposite
to himself. Captain Obadiah Belford was a West Indian, an inhabitant of Kingston in the island
of Jamaica. He was a cursing, swearing, hard-drinking renegado from virtue; an acknowledged
dealer in negro slaves, and reputed to have been a buccaneer, if not an out-and-out pirate,
such as then infested those tropical latitudes in prodigious numbers. He was not unknown in
New Hope, which he had visited upon several occasions for a week or so at a time. During each
period he lodged with his brother, whose household he scandalized by such freaks as smoking
his pipe of tobacco in the parlor, offering questionable pleasantries to the female servants,
and cursing and swearing in the hallways with a fecundity and an ingenuity that would have
put the most godless sailor about the docks to the blush.

Accordingly, it may then be supposed into what a dismay it threw Colonel Belford when one fine
day he received a letter from Captain Obadiah, in which our West Indian desperado informed
his brother that he proposed quitting those torrid latitudes in which he had lived for so long
a time, and that he intended thenceforth to make his home in New Hope.

Addressing Colonel Belford as "My dear Billy," he called upon that gentleman to rejoice at
this determination, and informed him that he proposed in future to live "as decent a limb of
grace as ever broke loose from hell," and added that he was going to fetch as a present for
his niece Belinda a "dam pirty little black girl" to carry her prayer-book to church for her.

Accordingly, one fine morning, in pursuance of this promise, our West Indian suddenly appeared
at New Hope with a prodigious quantity of chests and travelling-cases, and with so vociferous
an acclamation that all the town knew of his arrival within a half-hour of that event.

When, however, he presented himself before Colonel Belford, it was to meet with a welcome so
frigid and an address so reserved that a douche of cold water could not have quenched his verbosity
more entirely. For our great man had no notion to submit to the continued infliction of the
West Indian's presence. Accordingly, after the first words of greeting had passed, he addressed
Captain Obadiah in a strain somewhat after this fashion:

"Indeed, I protest, my dear brother Obadiah, it is with the heartiest regrets in the world
that I find myself obliged to confess that I cannot offer you a home with myself and my family.
It is not alone that your manners displease me--though, as an elder to a younger, I may say
to you that we of these more northern latitudes do not entertain the same tastes in such particulars
as doubtless obtain in the West Indies--but the habits of my household are of such a nature
that I could not hope to form them to your liking. I can, however, offer as my advice that
you may find lodgings at the Blue Lion Tavern, which doubtless will be of a sort exactly to
fit your inclinations. I have made inquiries, and I am sure you will find the very best apartments
to be obtained at that excellent hostelry placed at your disposal."

To this astounding address our West Indian could, for a moment, make no other immediate reply
than to open his eyes and to glare upon Colonel Belford, so that, what with his tall, lean
person, his long neck, his stooping shoulders, and his yellow face stained upon one side an
indigo blue by some premature explosion of gunpowder--what with all this and a prodigious hooked
beak of a nose, he exactly resembled some hungry predatory bird of prey meditating a pounce
upon an unsuspecting victim. At last, finding his voice, and rapping the ferrule of his ivory-headed
cane upon the floor to emphasize his declamation, he cried out: "What! What! What! Is this
the way to offer a welcome to a brother new returned to your house? Why, ---- ----! who are
you? Am not I your brother, who could buy you out twice over and have enough left to live in
velvet? Why! Why!--Very well, then, have it your own way; but if I don't grind your face into
the mud and roll you into the dirt my name is not Obadiah Belford!" Thereupon, striving to
say more but finding no fit words for the occasion, he swung upon his heel and incontinently
departed, banging the door behind him like a clap of thunder, and cursing and swearing so prodigiously
as he strode away down the street that an infernal from the pit could scarcely have exceeded
the fury of his maledictions.

However, he so far followed Colonel Belford's advice that he took up his lodgings at the Blue
Lion Tavern, where, in a little while, he had gathered about him a court of all such as chose
to take advantage of his extravagant bounty.

Indeed, he poured out his money with incredible profusion, declaring, with many ingenious and
self-consuming oaths, that he could match fortunes with the best two men in New Hope, and then
have enough left to buy up his brother from his hair to his boot-leathers. He made no secret
of the rebuff he had sustained from Colonel Belford, for his grievance clung to him like hot
pitch--itching the more he meddled with it. Sometimes his fury was such that he could scarcely
contain himself. Upon such occasions, cursing and swearing like an infernal, he would call
Heaven to witness that he would live in New Hope if for no other reason than to bring shame
to his brother, and he would declare again and again, with incredible variety of expletives,
that he would grind his brother's face into the dirt for him.

Accordingly he set himself assiduously at work to tease and torment the good man with every
petty and malicious trick his malevolence could invent. He would shout opprobrious words after
the other in the streets, to the entertainment of all who heard him; he would parade up and
down before Colonel Belford's house singing obstreperous and unseemly songs at the top of his
voice; he would even rattle the ferrule of his cane against the palings of the fence, or throw
a stone at Madam Belford's cat in the wantonness of his malice.

Meantime he had purchased a considerable tract of land, embracing Pig and Sow Point, and including
the Old Free Grace Meeting-House. Here, he declared, it was his intention to erect a house
for himself that should put his brother's wooden shed to shame. Accordingly he presently began
the erection of that edifice, so considerable in size and occupying so commanding a situation
that it was the admiration of all those parts, and was known to fame as Belford's Palace. This
magnificent residence was built entirely of brick, and Captain Obadiah made it a boast that
the material therefor was brought all the way around from New York in flats. In the erection
of this elegant structure all the carpenters and masons in the vicinage were employed, so that
it grew up with an amazing rapidity. Meantime, upon the site of the building, rum and Hollands
were kept upon draught for all comers, so that the place was made the common resort and the
scene for the orgies of all such of the common people as possessed a taste for strong waters,
many coming from so far away as Newport to enjoy our Captain's prodigality.

Meantime he himself strutted about the streets in his red coat trimmed with gilt braid, his
hat cocked upon one side of his bony head, pleasing himself with the belief that he was the
object of universal admiration, and swelling with a vast and consummate self-satisfaction as
he boasted, with strident voice and extravagant enunciation, of the magnificence of the palace
he was building.

At the same time, having, as he said, shingles to spare, he patched and repaired the Old Free
Grace Meeting-House, so that its gray and hoary exterior, while rejuvenated as to the roof
and walls, presented in a little while an appearance as of a sudden eruption of bright yellow
shingles upon its aged hide. Nor would our Captain offer any other explanation for so odd a
freak of fancy than to say that it pleased him to do as he chose with his own.

At last, the great house having been completed, and he himself having entered into it and furnished
it to his satisfaction, our Captain presently began entertaining his friends therein with a
profuseness of expenditure and an excess of extravagance that were the continued admiration
of the whole colony. In more part the guests whom Captain Obadiah thus received with so lavish
an indulgence were officers or government officials from the garrisons of Newport or of Boston,
with whom, by some means or other, he had scraped an acquaintance. At times these gay gentlemen
would fairly take possession of the town, parading up and down the street under conduct of
their host, staring ladies out of countenance with the utmost coolness and effrontery, and
offering loud and critical remarks concerning all that they beheld about them, expressing their
opinions with the greatest freedom and jocularity.

Nor were the orgies at Belford's Palace limited to such extravagances as gaming and dicing
and drinking, for sometimes the community would be scandalized by the presence of gayly dressed
and high-colored ladies, who came, no one knew whence, to enjoy the convivialities at the great
house on the hill, and concerning whom it pleased the respectable folk of New Hope to entertain
the gravest suspicion.

At first these things raised such a smoke that nothing else was to be seen, but by-and-by other
strange and singular circumstances began to be spoken of--at first among the common people,
and then by others. It began to be whispered and then to be said that the Old Free Grace Meeting-House
out on the Point was haunted by the Devil.

The first information concerning this dreadful obsession arose from a fisherman, who, coming
into the harbor of a nightfall after a stormy day, had, as he affirmed, beheld the old meeting-house
all of a blaze of light. Some time after, a tinker, making a short-cut from Stapleton by way
of the old Indian road, had a view of a similar but a much more remarkable manifestation. This
time, as the itinerant most solemnly declared, the meeting-house was not only seen all alight,
but a bell was ringing as a signal somewhere off across the darkness of the water, where, as
he protested, there suddenly appeared a red star, that, blazing like a meteor with a surpassing
brightness for a few seconds, was presently swallowed up into inky darkness again. Upon another
occasion a fiddler, returning home after midnight from Sprowle's Neck, seeing the church alight,
had, with a temerity inflamed by rum, approached to a nearer distance, whence, lying in the
grass, he had, he said, at the stroke of midnight, beheld a multitude of figures emerge from
the building, crying most dolorously, and then had heard a voice, as of a lost spirit, calling
aloud, "Six-and-twenty, all told!" whereat the light in the church was instantly extinguished
into an impenetrable darkness.

It was said that when Captain Obadiah himself was first apprised of the suspicions entertained
of the demoniacal possession of the old meeting-house, he had fixed upon his venturesome informant
so threatening and ominous a gaze that the other could move neither hand nor foot under the
malignant fury of his observation. Then, at last, clearing his countenance of its terrors,
he had burst into a great, loud laugh, crying out: "Well, what then? Why not? You must know
that the Devil and I have been very good friends in times past. I saw a deal of him in the
West Indies, and I must tell you that I built up the old meeting-house again so that he and
I could talk together now and then about old times without having a lot of ----, dried, codfish-eating,
rum-drinking Yankee bacon-chewers to listen to every word we had to say to each other. If you
must know, it was only last night that the ghost of Jezebel and I danced a fandango together
in the graveyard up yonder, while the Devil himself sat cross-legged on old Daniel Root's tombstone
and blew on a dry, dusty shank-bone by way of a flute. And now" (here he swore a terrific oath)
"you know the worst that is to be known, with only this to say: if ever a man sets foot upon
Pig and Sow Point again after nightfall to interfere with the Devil's sport and mine, hell
suffer for it as sure as fire can burn or brimstone can scorch. So put that in your pipe and
smoke it."

These terrible words, however extravagant, were, to be sure, in the nature of a direct confirmation
of the very worst suspicion that could have been entertained concerning this dolorous affair.
But if any further doubt lingered as to the significance of such malevolent rumors, Captain
Obadiah himself soon put an end to the same.

The Reverend Josiah Pettibones was used of a Saturday to take supper at Colonel Belford's elegant
residence. It was upon such an occasion and the reverend gentleman and his honored host were
smoking a pipe of tobacco together in the library, when there fell a loud and importunate knocking
at the house door, and presently the servant came ushering no less a personage than Captain
Obadiah himself. After directing a most cunning, mischievous look at his brother, Captain Obadiah
addressed himself directly to the Reverend Mr. Pettibones, folding his hands with a most indescribable
air of mock humility. "Sir," says he--"Reverend sir, you see before you a humble and penitent
sinner, who has fallen so desperately deep into iniquities that he knows not whether even so
profound piety as yours can elevate him out of the pit in which he finds himself. Sir, it has
got about the town that the Devil has taken possession of my old meeting-house, and, alas!
I have to confess--that it is the truth." Here our Captain hung his head down upon his breast
as though overwhelmed with the terrible communication he had made.

"What is this that I hear?" cried the reverend gentleman. "Can I believe my ears?"

"Believe your ears!" exclaimed Colonel Belford. "To be sure you cannot believe your ears. Do
you not see that this is a preposterous lie, and that he is telling it to you to tease and
to mortify me?"

At this Captain Obadiah favored his brother with a look of exaggerated and sanctimonious humility.
"Alas, brother," he cried out, "for accusing me so unjustly! Fie upon you! Would you check
a penitent in his confession? But you must know that it is to this gentleman that I address
myself, and not to you." Then directing his discourse once more to the Reverend Mr. Pettibones,
he resumed his address thus: "Sir, you must know that while I was in the West Indies I embarked,
among other things, in one of those ventures against the Spanish Main of which you may have heard."

"Do you mean piracy?" asked the Reverend Pettibones; and Captain Obadiah nodded his head.

"'Tis a lie!" cried Colonel Belford, smacking his hand upon the table. "He never possessed
spirit enough for anything so dangerous as piracy or more mischievous than slave-trading."

"Sir," quoth Captain Obadiah to the reverend gentleman, "again I say 'tis to you I address
my confession. Well, sir, one day we sighted a Spanish caravel very rich ladened with a prodigious
quantity of plate, but were without so much as a capful of wind to fetch us up with her. 'I
would,' says I, 'offer the Devil my soul for a bit of a breeze to bring us alongside.' 'Done,'
says a voice beside me, and--alas that I must confess it!--there I saw a man with a very dark
countenance, whom I had never before beheld aboard of our ship. 'Sign this,' says he, 'and
the breeze is yours!' 'What is it upon the pen?' says I. "'Tis blood,' says he. Alas, sir!
what was a poor wretch so tempted as I to do?"

"And did you sign?" asked Mr. Pettibones, all agog to hear the conclusion of so strange a narration.

"Woe is me, sir, that I should have done so!" quoth Captain Obadiah, rolling his eyes until
little but the whites of them were to be seen.

"And did you catch the Spanish ship?"

"That we did, sir, and stripped her as clean as a whistle."

"'Tis all a prodigious lie!" cried Colonel Belford, in a fury. "Sir, can you sit so complacently
and be made a fool of by so extravagant a fable?"

"Indeed it is unbelievable," said Mr. Pettibones.

At this faint reply, Captain Obadiah burst out laughing; then renewing his narrative--"Indeed,
sir," he declared, "you may believe me or not, as you please. Nevertheless, I may tell you
that, having so obtained my prize, and having time to think coolly over the bargain I had made,
I says to myself, says I: 'Obediah Belford! Obadiah Belford, here is a pretty pickle you are
in. 'Tis time you quit these parts and lived decent, or else you are damned to all eternity.'
And so I came hither to New Hope, reverend sir, hoping to end my days in quiet. Alas, sir!
would you believe it? scarce had I finished my fine new house up at the Point when hither comes
that evil being to whom I had sold my sorrowful soul. 'Obadiah,' says he, 'Obadiah Belford,
I have a mind to live in New Hope also,' 'Where?' says I. 'Well,' says he, 'you may patch up
the old meetinghouse; 'twill serve my turn for a while.' 'Well,' thinks I to myself, 'there
can be no harm in that,' And so I did as he bade me-- and would not you do as much for one
who had served you as well? Alas, your reverence! there he is now, and I cannot get rid of
him, and 'tis over the whole town that he has the meeting-house in possession."

"Tis an incredible story!" cried the Reverend Pettibones.

"'Tis a lie from beginning to end!" cried the Colonel.

"And now how shall I get myself out of my pickle?" asked Captain Obadiah.

"Sir," said Mr. Pettibones, "if what you tell me is true, 'tis beyond my poor powers to aid you."

"Alas!" cried Captain Obadiah. "Alas! alas! Then, indeed, I'm damned!" And therewith flinging
his arms into the air as though in the extremity of despair, he turned and incontinently departed,
rushing forth out of the house as though stung by ten thousand furies.

It was the most prodigious piece of gossip that ever fell in the way of the Reverend Josiah,
and for a fortnight he carried it with him wherever he went. "'Twas the most unbelievable tale
I ever heard," he would cry. "And yet where there is so much smoke there must be some fire.
As for the poor wretch, if ever I saw a lost soul I beheld him standing before me there in
Colonel Belford's library." And then he would conclude: "Yes, yes, 'tis incredible and past
all belief. But if it be true in ever so little a part, why, then there is justice in this--that
the Devil should take possession of the sanctuary of that very heresy that would not only have
denied him the power that every other Christian belief assigns to him, but would have destroyed
that infernal habitation that hath been his dwelling-place for all eternity."

As for Captain Belford, if he desired privacy for himself upon Pig and Sow Point, he had taken
the very best means to prevent the curious from spying upon him there after nightfall.

II

HOW THE DEVIL STOLE THE COLLECTOR'S SNUFFBOX

Lieutenant Thomas Goodhouse was the Collector of Customs in the town of New Hope. He was a
character of no little notoriety in those parts, enjoying the reputation of being able to consume
more pineapple rum with less effect upon his balance than any other man in the community. He
possessed the voice of a stentor, a short, thick-set, broad-shouldered person, a face congested
to a violent carnation, and red hair of such a color as to add infinitely to the consuming
fire of his countenance.

The Custom Office was a little white frame building with green shutters, and overhanging the
water as though to topple into the tide. Here at any time of the day betwixt the hours of ten
in the morning and of five in the afternoon the Collector was to be found at his desk smoking
his pipe of tobacco, the while a thin, phthisical clerk bent with unrelaxing assiduity over
a multitude of account-books and papers accumulated before him.

For his post of Collectorship of the Royal Customs, Lieutenant Goodhouse was especially indebted
to the patronage of Colonel Belford. The worthy Collector had, some years before, come to that
gentleman with a written recommendation from the Earl of Clandennie of a very unusual sort.
It was the Lieutenant's good-fortune to save the life of the Honorable Frederick Dunburne,
second son of the Earl--a wild, rakish, undisciplined youth, much given to such mischievous
enterprises as the twisting off of door-knockers, the beating of the watch, and the carrying
away of tavern signs.

Having been a very famous swimmer at Eton, the Honorable Frederick undertook while at the Cowes
to swim a certain considerable distance for a wager. In the midst of this enterprise he was
suddenly seized with a cramp, and would inevitably have drowned had not the Lieutenant, who
happened in a boat close at hand, leaped overboard and rescued the young gentleman from the
watery grave in which he was about to be engulfed, thus restoring him once more to the arms
of his grateful family.

For this fortunate act of rescue the Earl of Clandennie presented to his son's preserver a
gold snuffbox filled with guineas, and inscribed with the following legend:

"To Lieutenant Thomas Goodhouse, who, under the Ruling of Beneficent Providence, was the Happy
Preserver of a Beautiful and Precious Life of Virtuous Precocity, this Box is presented by
the Father of Him whom He saved as a grateful acknowledgment of His Services.

Thomas Monkhouse Dunburne, Viscount of Dunburne and Earl of Clandennie.

August 17, 1752."

Having thus satisfied the immediate demands of his gratitude, it is very possible that the
Earl of Clandennie did not choose to assume so great a responsibility as the future of his
son's preserver entailed. Nevertheless, feeling that something should be done for him, he obtained
for Lieutenant Goodhouse a passage to the Americas, and wrote him a strong letter of recommendation
to Colonel Belford. That gentleman, desiring to please the legitimate head of his family, used
his influence so successfully that the Lieutenant was presently granted the position of Collector
of Customs in the place of Captain Maull, who had lately deceased.

The Lieutenant, somewhat to the surprise of his patrons, filled his new official position as
Collector not only with vigor, but with a not unbecoming dignity. He possessed an infinite
appreciation of the responsibilities of his office, and he was more jealous to collect every
farthing of the royal duties than he would have been had those moneys been gathered for his
own emolument.

Under the old Collectorship of Captain Maull, it was no unusual thing for a barraco of superfine
Hollands, a bolt of silk cloth, or a keg of brandy to find its way into the house of some influential
merchant or Colonial dignitary. But in no such manner was Lieutenant Goodhouse derelict in
his duties. He would have sacrificed his dearest friendship or his most precious attachment
rather than fail in his duties to the Crown. In the intermission of his duties it might please
him to relax into the softer humors of conviviality, but at ten o'clock in the morning, whatever
his condition of sobriety, he assumed at once all the sterner panoply of a Collector of the
Royal Customs.

Thus he set his virtues against his vices, and struck an even balance between them. When most
unsteady upon his legs he most asserted his integrity, declaring that not a gill or a thread
came into his port without paying its duty, and calling Heaven to witness that it had been
his hand that had saved the life of a noble young gentleman. Thereupon, perhaps, drawing forth
the gleaming token of his prowess--the gold snuffbox--from his breeches-pocket, and holding
it tight in his brown and hairy fist, he would first offer his interlocutor a pinch of rappee,
and would then call upon him to read the inscription engraved upon the lid of the case, demanding
to know whether it mattered a fig if a man did drink a drop too much now and then, provided
he collected every farthing of the royal revenues, and had been the means of saving the son
of the Earl of Clandennie.

Never for an instant upon such an occasion would he permit his precious box to quit his possession.
It was to him an emblem of those virtues that no one knew but himself, wherefore the more he
misdoubted his own virtuousness the more valuable did the token of that rectitude become in
his eyes. "Yes, you may look at it," he would say, "but damme if you shall handle it. I would
not," he would cry, "let the Devil himself take it out of my hands."

The talk concerning the impious possession of the Old Free Grace Meeting-House was at its height
when the official consciousness of the Collector, who was just then laboring under his constitutional
infirmity, became suddenly seized with an irrepressible alarm. He declared that he smoked something
worse than the Devil upon Pig and Sow Point, and protested that it was his opinion that Captain
Obadiah was doing a bit of free-trade upon his own account, and that dutiable goods were being
smuggled in at night under cover of these incredible stories. He registered a vow, sealing
it with the most solemn protestations, and with a multiplicity of ingenious oaths that only
a mind stimulated by the heat of intoxication could have invented, that he would make it his
business, upon the first occasion that offered, to go down to Pig and Sow Point and to discover
for himself whether it was the Devil or smugglers that had taken possession of the Old Free
Grace Meeting-House. Thereupon, hauling out his precious snuffbox and rapping upon the lid,
he offered a pinch around. Then calling attention to the inscription, he demanded to know whether
a man who had behaved so well upon that occasion had need to be afraid of a whole churchful
of devils. "I would," he cried, "offer the Devil a pinch, as I have offered it to you. Then
I would bid him read this and tell me whether he dared to say that black was the white of my eye."

Nor were those words a vain boast upon the Collector's part, for, before a week had passed,
it being reported that there had been a renewal of manifestations at the old church, the Collector,
finding nobody with sufficient courage to accompany him, himself entered into a small boat
and rowed down alone to Pig and Sow Point to investigate, for his own satisfaction, those appearances
that so agitated the community.

It was dusk when the Collector departed upon that memorable and solitary expedition, and it
was entirely dark before he had reached its conclusion. He had taken with him a bottle of Extra
Reserve rum to drive, as he declared, the chill out of his bones. Accordingly it seemed to
him to be a surprisingly brief interval before he found himself floating in his boat under
the impenetrable shadow of the rocky promontory. The profound and infinite gloom of night overhung
him with a portentous darkness, melting only into a liquid obscurity as it touched and dissolved
into the stretch of waters across the bay. But above, on the high and rugged shoulder of the
Point, the Collector, with dulled and swimming vision, beheld a row of dim and lurid lights,
whereupon, collecting his faculties, he opined that the radiance he beheld was emitted from
the windows of the Old Free Grace Meeting-House.

Having made fast his boat with a drunken gravity, the Collector walked directly, though with
uncertain steps, up the steep and rugged path towards that mysterious illumination. Now and
then he stumbled over the stones and cobbles that lay in his way, but he never quite lost his
balance, neither did he for a moment remit his drunken gravity. So with a befuddled and obstinate
perseverance he reached at last to the conclusion of his adventure and of his fate.

The old meeting-house was two stories in height, the lower story having been formerly used
by the Free Grace Believers as a place wherein to celebrate certain obscure mysteries appertaining
to their belief. The upper story, devoted to the more ordinary worship of their Sunday meetings,
was reached by a tall, steep flight of steps that led from the ground to a covered porch which
sheltered the doorway.

The Collector paused only long enough to observe that the shutters of the lower story were
tight shut and barred, and that the dull and lurid light shone from the windows above. Then
he directly mounted the steps with a courage and a perfect assurance that can only be entirely
enjoyed by one in his peculiar condition of inebriety.

He paused to knock at the door, and it appeared to him that his knuckles had hardly fallen
upon the panel before the valve was flung suddenly open. An indescribable and heavy odor fell
upon him and for the moment overpowered his senses, and he found himself standing face to face
with a figure prodigiously and portentously tall.

Even at this unexpected apparition the Collector lost possession of no part of his courage.
Rather he stiffened himself to a more stubborn and obstinate resolution. Steadying himself
for his address, "I know very well," quoth he, "who you are. You are the Divil, I dare say,
but damme if you shall do business here without paying your duties to King George. I may drink
a drop too much," he cried, "but I collect my duties--every farthing of 'em." Then drawing
forth his snuffbox, he thrust it under the nose of the being to whom he spake. "Take a pinch
and read that," he roared, "but don't handle it, for I wouldn't take all hell to let it out
of my hand."

The being whom he addressed had stood for all this while as though bereft of speech and of
movement, but at these last words he appeared to find his voice, for he gave forth a strident
bellow of so dreadful and terrible a sort that the Collector, brave as he found himself, stepped
back a pace or two before it. The next instant he was struck upon the wrist as though by a
bolt of lightning, and the snuffbox, describing a yellow circle against the light of the door,
disappeared into the darkness of the night beyond. Ere he could recover himself another blow
smote him upon the breast, and he fell headlong from the platform, as through infinite space.

    *    *    *    *    *

The next day the Collector did not present himself at the office at his accustomed hour, and
the morning wore along without his appearing at his desk. By noon serious alarm began to take
possession of the community, and about two o'clock, the tide being then set out pretty strong,
Mr. Tompkins, the consumptive clerk, and two sailors from the Sarah Goodrich, then lying at
Mr. Hoppins's wharf, went down in a yawl-boat to learn, if possible, what had befallen him.
They coasted along the Point for above a half-hour before they discovered any vestige of the
missing Collector. Then at last they saw him lying at a little distance upon a cobbled strip
of beach, where, judging from his position and from the way he had composed himself to rest,
he appeared to have been overcome by liquor.

At this place Mr. Tompkins put ashore, and making the best of his way over the slippery stones
exposed at low water, came at last to where his chief was lying. The Collector was reposing
with one arm over his eyes, as though to shelter them from the sun, but as soon as Mr. Tompkins
had approached close enough to see his countenance, he uttered a great cry that was like a
scream. For, by the blue and livid lips parted at the corners to show the yellow teeth, from
the waxy whiteness of the fat and hairy hands--in short, from the appearance of the whole figure,
he was aware in an instant that the Collector was dead.

His cry brought the two sailors running. They, with the utmost coolness imaginable, turned
the Collector over, but discovered no marks of violence upon him, till of a sudden one of them
called attention to the fact that his neck was broke. Upon this the other opined that he had
fallen among the rocks and twisted his neck.

The two mariners then made an investigation of his pockets, the clerk standing by the while
paralyzed with horror, his face the color of dough, his scalp creeping, and his hands and fingers
twitching as though with the palsy. For there was something indescribably dreadful in the spectacle
of those living hands searching into the dead's pockets, and he would freely have given a week's
pay if he had never embarked upon the expedition for the recovery of his chief.

In the Collector's pockets they found a twist of tobacco, a red bandanna handkerchief of violent
color, a purse meagrely filled with copper coins and silver pieces, a silver watch still ticking
with a loud and insistent iteration, a piece of tarred string, and a clasp-knife.

The snuffbox which the Lieutenant had regarded with such prodigious pride as the one emblem
of his otherwise dubious virtue was gone.

III

THE STRANGE ADVENTURES OF A YOUNG GENTLEMAN OF QUALITY

The Honorable Frederick Dunburne, second son of the Earl of Clandennie, having won some six
hundred pounds at écarté at a single sitting at Pintzennelli's, embarked with his two friends,
Captain Blessington and Lord George Fitzhope, to conclude the night with a round of final dissipation
in the more remote parts of London. Accordingly they embarked at York Stairs for the Three
Cranes, ripe for any mischief. Upon the water the three young gentlemen amused themselves by
shouting and singing, pausing only now and then to discharge a broadside of raillery at the
occupants of some other and passing boat.

All went very well for a while, some of those in the passing boats laughing and railing in
return, others shouting out angry replies. At last they fell in with a broad-beamed, flat-nosed,
Dutch-appearing yawl-boat, pulling heavily up against the stream, and loaded with a crew of
half-drunken sailors just come into port. In reply to the challenge of our young gentlemen,
a man in the stern of the other boat, who appeared to be the captain of the crew--a fellow,
as Dunburne could indefinitely perceive by the dim light of the lanthorn and the faint illumination
of the misty half-moon, possessing a great, coarse red face and a bullet head surmounted by
a mildewed and mangy fur cap-- bawled out, in reply, that if they would only put their boat
near enough for a minute or two he would give them a bellyful of something that would make
them quiet for the rest of the night. He added that he would ask for nothing better than to
have the opportunity of beating Dunburne's head to a pudding, and that he would give a crown
to have the three of them within arm's-reach for a minute.

Upon this Captain Blessington swore that he should be immediately accommodated, and therewith
delivered an order to that effect to the watermen. These obeyed so promptly that almost before
Dunburne was aware of what had happened the two boats were side by side, with hardly a foot
of space between the gunwales. Dunburne beheld one of the watermen of his own boat knock down
one of the crew of the other with the blade of an oar, and then he himself was clutched by
the collar in the grasp of the man with the fur cap. Him Dunburne struck twice in the face,
and in the moonlight he saw that he had started the blood to running down from his assailant's
nose. But his blows produced no other effect than to call forth a volley of the most horrible
oaths that ever greeted his ears. Thereupon the boats drifted so far apart that our young gentleman
was haled over the gunwale and soused in the cold water of the river. The next moment some
one struck him upon the head with a belaying-pin or a billet of wood, a blow so crushing that
the darkness seemed to split asunder with a prodigious flaming of lights and a myriad of circling
stars, which presently disappeared into the profound and utter darkness of insensibility. How
long this swoon continued our young gentleman could never tell, but when he regained so much
of his consciousness as to be aware of the things about him, he beheld himself to be confined
in a room, the walls whereof were yellow and greasy with dirt, he himself having been laid
upon a bed so foul and so displeasing to his taste that he could not but regret the swoon from
which he had emerged into consciousness. Looking down at his person, he beheld that his clothes
had all been taken away from him, and that he was now clad in a shirt with only one sleeve,
and a pair of breeches so tattered that they barely covered his nakedness. While he lay thus,
dismally depressed by so sad a pickle as that into which he found himself plunged, he was strongly
and painfully aware of an uproarious babble of loud and drunken voices and a continual clinking
of glasses, which appeared to sound as from a tap-room beneath, these commingled now and then
with oaths and scraps of discordant song bellowed out above the hubbub. His wounded head beat
with tremendous and straining painfulness, as though it would burst asunder, and he was possessed
by a burning thirst that seemed to consume his very vitals. He called aloud, and in reply a
fat, one-eyed woman came, fetching him something to drink in a cup. This he swallowed with
avidity, and thereupon (the liquor perhaps having been drugged) he dropped off into unconsciousness
once more.

When at last he emerged for a second time into the light of reason, it was to find himself
aboard a brig--the Prophet Daniel, he discovered her name to be--bound for Baltimore, in the
Americas, and then pitching and plunging upon a westerly running stern-sea, and before a strong
wind that drove the vessel with enormous velocity upon its course for those remote and unknown
countries for which it was bound. The land was still in sight both astern and abeam, but before
him lay the boundless and tremendously infinite stretch of the ocean. Dunburne found himself
still to be clad in the one-armed shirt and tattered breeches that had adorned him in the house
of the crimp in which he had first awakened. Now, however, an old tattered hat with only a
part of the crown had been added to his costume. As though to complete the sad disorder of
his appearance, he discovered, upon passing his hand over his countenance, that his beard and
hair had started a bristling growth, and that the lump on his crown--which was even yet as
big as a walnut-- was still patched with pieces of dirty sticking-plaster. Indeed, had he but
known it, he presented as miserable an appearance as the most miserable of those wretches who
were daily ravished from the slums and streets of the great cities to be shipped to the Americas.
Nor was he a long time in discovering that he was now one of the several such indentured servants
who, upon the conclusion of their voyage, were to be sold for their passage in the plantations
of Maryland.

Having learned so much of his miserable fate, and being now able to make shift to walk (though
with weak and stumbling steps), our young gentleman lost no time in seeking the Captain, to
whom he endeavored to explain the several accidents that had befallen him, acknowledging that
he was the second son of the Earl of Clandennie, and declaring that if he, the Captain, would
put the Prophet Daniel back into some English port again, his lordship would make it well worth
his while to lose so much time for the sake of one so dear as a second son. To this address
the Captain, supposing him either to be drunk or disordered in his mind, made no other reply
than to knock him incontinently down upon the deck, bidding him return forward where he belonged.

Thereafter poor Dunburne found himself enjoying the reputation of a harmless madman. The name
of the Earl of Rags was bestowed upon him, and the miserable companions of his wretched plight
were never tired of tempting him to recount his adventures, for the sake of entertaining themselves
by teasing that which they supposed to be his hapless mania.

Nor is it easy to conceive of all the torments that those miserable, obscene wretches were
able to inflict upon him. Under the teasing sting of his companions' malevolent pleasantries,
there were times when Dunburne might, as he confessed to himself, have committed a murder with
the greatest satisfaction in the world. However, he was endowed with no small command of self-restraint,
so that he was still able to curb his passions within the bounds of reason and of policy. He
was, fortunately, a complete master of the French and Italian languages, so that when the fury
of his irritation would become too excessive for him to control, he would ease his spirits
by castigating his tormentors with a consuming verbosity in those foreign tongues, which, had
his companions understood a single word of that which he uttered, would have earned for him
a beating that would have landed him within an inch of his life. However, they attributed all
that he said to the irrational gibbering of a maniac.

About midway of their voyage the Prophet Daniel encountered a tremendous storm, which drove
her so far out of the Captain's reckoning that when land was sighted, in the afternoon of a
tempestuous day in the latter part of August, the first mate, who had been for some years in
the New England trade, opined that it was the coast of Rhode Island, and that if the Captain
chose to do so he might run into New Hope Harbor and lie there until the southeaster had blown
itself out. This advice the Captain immediately put into execution, so that by nightfall they
had dropped anchor in the comparative quiet of that excellent harbor.

Dunburne was a most excellent and practised swimmer. That evening, when the dusk had pretty
well fallen, he jumped overboard, dived under the brig, and came up on the other side. Thus
leaving all hands aboard looking for him or for his dead body at the starboard side of the
Prophet Daniel, he himself swam slowly away to the larboard. Now partly under water, now floating
on his back, he directed his course towards a point of land about a mile away, whereon, as
he had observed before the dark had settled down, there stood an old wooden building resembling
a church, and a great brick house with tall, lean chimneys at a little farther distance inland.

The intemperate cold of the water of those parts of America was so much more excessive than
Dunburne had been used to swim in that when he dragged himself out upon the rocky, bowlder-strewn
beach he lay for a considerable time more dead than alive. His limbs appeared to possess hardly
any vitality, so benumbed were they by the icy chill that had entered into the very marrow
of his bones. Nor did he for a long while recover from this excessive rigor; his limbs still
continued at intervals to twitch and shudder as with a convulsion, nor could he at such times
at all control their trembling. At last, however, with a huge sigh, he aroused himself to some
perception of his surroundings, which he acknowledged were of as dispiriting a sort as he could
well have conceived of. His recovering senses were distracted by a ceaseless watery din, for
the breaking waves, rushing with a prodigious swiftness from the harbor to the shore before
the driving wind, fell with uproarious crashing into white foam among the rocks. Above this
watery tumult spread the wet gloom of the night, full of the blackness and pelting chill of
a fine slanting rain.

Through this shroud of mist and gloom Dunburne at last distinguished a faint light, blurred
by the sheets of rain and darkness, and shining as though from a considerable distance. Cheered
by this nearer presence of human life, our young gentleman presently gathered his benumbed
powers together, arose, and after a while began slowly and feebly to climb a stony hill that
lay between the rocky beach and that faint but encouraging illumination.

So, sorely buffeted by the tempest, he at last reached the black, square form of that structure
from which the light shone. The building he perceived to be a little wooden church of two stories
in height. The shutters of the lower story were tight fastened, as though bolted from within.
Those above were open, and from them issued the light that had guided him in his approach from
the beach. A tall flight of wooden steps, wet in the rain, reached to a small, enclosed porch
or vestibule, whence a door, now tight shut, gave ingress into the second story of the church.

Thence, as Dunburne stood without, he could now distinguish the dull muttering of a man's voice,
which he opined might be that of the preacher. Our young gentleman, as may be supposed, was
in a wretched plight. He was ragged and unshaven; his only clothing was the miserable shirt
and bepatched breeches that had served him as shelter throughout the long voyage. These abominable
garments were now wet to the skin, and so displeasing was his appearance that he was forced
to acknowledge to himself that he did not possess enough of humility to avow so great a misery
to the light and to the eyes of strangers. Accordingly, finding some shelter afforded by the
vestibule of the church, he crouched there in a corner, huddling his rags about him, and finding
a certain poor warmth in thus hiding away from the buffeting of the chill and penetrating wind.
As he so crouched he presently became aware of the sound of many voices, dull and groaning,
coming from within the edifice, and then--now and again--the clanking as of a multitude of
chains. Then of a sudden, and unexpectedly, the door near him was flung wide open, and a faint
glow of reddish light fell across the passage. Instantly the figure of a man came forth, and
following him came, not a congregation, as Dunburne might have supposed, but a most dolorous
company of nearly, or quite, naked men and women, outlined blackly, as they emerged, against
the dull illumination from behind. These wretched beings, sighing and groaning most piteously,
with a monotonous wailing of many voices, were chained by the wrist, two and two together,
and as they passed by close to Dunburne, his nostrils were overpowered by a heavy and fetid
odor that came partly from within the building, partly from the wretched creatures that passed
him by.

As the last of these miserable beings came forth from the bowels of that dreadful place, a
loud voice, so near to Dunburne as to startle his ears with its sudden exclamation, cried out,
"Six-and-twenty, all told," and thereat instantly the dull light from within was quenched into
darkness.

In the gloom and the silence that followed, Dunburne could hear for a while nothing but the
dash of the rain upon the roof and the ceaseless drip and trickle of the water running from
the eaves into the puddles beneath the building.

Then, as he stood, still marvelling at what he had seen, there suddenly came a loud and startling
crash, as of a trap-door let fall into its place. A faint circle of light shone within the
darkness of the building, as though from a lantern carried in a man's hands. There was a sound
of jingling, as of keys, of approaching footsteps, and of voices talking together, and presently
there came out into the vestibule the dark figures of two men, one of them carrying a ship's
lantern. One of these figures closed and locked the door behind him, and then both were about
to turn away without having observed Dunburne, when, of a sudden, a circle from the roof of
the lantern lit up his pale and melancholy face, and he instantly became aware that his presence
had been discovered.

The next moment the lantern was flung up almost into his eyes, and in the light he saw the
sharp, round rim of a pistol-barrel directed immediately against his forehead.

In that moment our young gentleman's life hung as a hair in the balance. In the intense instant
of expectancy his brain appeared to expand as a bubble, and his ears tingled and hummed as
though a cloud of flies were buzzing therein. Then suddenly a voice smote like a blow upon
the silence--"Who are you, and what d'ye want?"

"Indeed," said Dunburne, "I do not know."

"What do you do here?"

"Nor do I know that, either."

He who held the lantern lifted it so that the illumination fell still more fully upon Dunburne's
face and person. Then his interlocutor demanded, "How did you come here?"

Upon the moment Dunburne determined to answer so much of the truth as the question required.
"'Twas by no fault of my own," he cried. "I was knocked on the head and kidnapped in England,
with the design of being sold in Baltimore. The vessel that fetched me put into the harbor
over yonder to wait for good weather, and I jumped overboard and swam ashore, to stumble into
the cursed pickle in which I now find myself."

"Have you, then, an education? To be sure, you talk so."

"Indeed I have," said Dunburne--"a decent enough education to fit me for a gentleman, if the
opportunity offered. But what of that?" he exclaimed, desperately. "I might as well have no
more learning than a beggar under the bush, for all the good it does me." The other once more
flashed the light of his lantern over our young gentleman's miserable and barefoot figure.
"I had a mind," says he, "to blow your brains out against the wall. I have a notion now, however,
to turn you to some use instead, so I'll just spare your life for a little while, till I see
how you behave."

He spoke with so much more of jocularity than he had heretofore used that Dunburne recovered
in great part his dawning assurance. "I am infinitely obliged to you," he cried, "for sparing
my brains; but I protest I doubt if you will ever find so good an opportunity again to murder
me as you have just enjoyed."

This speech seemed to tickle the other prodigiously, for he burst into a loud and boisterous
laugh, under cover of which he thrust his pistol back into his coat-pocket again. "Come with
me, and I'll fit you with victuals and decent clothes, of both of which you appear to stand
in no little need," he said. Thereupon, and without another word, he turned and quitted the
place, accompanied by his companion, who for all this time had uttered not a single sound.
A little way from the church these two parted company, with only a brief word spoken between them.

Dunburne's interlocutor, with our young gentleman following close behind him, led the way in
silence for a considerable distance through the long, wet grass and the tempestuous darkness,
until at last, still in unbroken silence, they reached the confines of an enclosure, and presently
stood before a large and imposing house built of brick.

Dunburne's mysterious guide, still carrying the lantern, conducted him directly up a broad
flight of steps, and opening the door, ushered him into a hallway of no inconsiderable pretensions.
Thence he led the way to a dining-room beyond, where our young gentleman observed a long mahogany
table, and a sideboard of carved mahogany illuminated by three or four candles. In answer to
the call of his conductor, a negro servant appeared, whom the master of the house ordered to
fetch some bread and cheese and a bottle of rum for his wretched guest. While the servant was
gone to execute the commission the master seated himself at his ease and favored Dunburne with
a long and most minute regard. Then he suddenly asked our young gentleman what was his name.

Upon the instant Dunburne did not offer a reply to this interrogation. He had been so miserably
abused when he had told the truth upon the voyage that he knew not now whether to confess or
deny his identity. He possessed no great aptitude at lying, so that it was with no little hesitation
that he determined to maintain his incognito. Having reached this conclusion, he answered his
host that his name was Tom Robinson. The other, however, appeared to notice neither his hesitation
nor the name which he had seen fit to assume. Instead, he appeared to be lost in a reverie,
which he broke only to bid our young gentleman to sit down and tell the story of the several
adventures that had befallen him. He advised him to leave nothing untold, however shameful
it might be. "Be assured," said he, "that no matter what crimes you may have committed, the
more intolerable your wickedness, the better you will please me for the purpose I have in view."

Being thus encouraged, and having already embarked in disingenuosity, our young gentleman,
desiring to please his host, began at random a tale composed in great part of what he recollected
of the story of Colonel Jack, seasoned occasionally with extracts from Mr. Smollett's ingenious
novel of Ferdinand, Count Fathom. There was hardly a petty crime or a mean action mentioned
in either of these entertaining fictions that he was not willing to attribute to himself. Meanwhile
he discovered, to his surprise, that lying was not really so difficult an art as he had supposed
it to be. His host listened for a considerable while in silence, but at last he was obliged
to call upon his penitent to stop. "To tell you the truth, Mr. What's-a-name," he cried, "I
do not believe a single word you are telling me. However, I am satisfied that in you I have
discovered, as I have every reason to hope, one of the most preposterous liars I have for a
long time fell in with. Indeed, I protest that any one who can with so steady a countenance
lie so tremendously as you have just done may be capable, if not of a great crime, at least
of no inconsiderable deceit, and perhaps of treachery. If this be so, you will suit my purposes
very well, though I would rather have had you an escaped criminal or a murderer or a thief."

"Sir," said Dunburne, very seriously, "I am sorry that I am not more to your mind. As you say,
I can, I find, lie very easily, and if you will give me sufficient time, I dare say I can become
sufficiently expert in other and more criminal matters to please even your fancy. I cannot,
I fear, commit a murder, nor would I choose to embark upon an attempt at arson; but I could
easily learn to cheat at cards; or I could, if it would please you better, make shift to forge
your own name to a bill for a hundred pounds. I confess, however, I am entirely in the dark
as to why you choose to have me enjoy so evil a reputation."

At these words the other burst into a great and vociferous laugh. "I protest," he cried, "you
are the coolest rascal ever I fell in with. But come," he added, sobering suddenly, "what did
you say was your name?"

"I declare, sir," said Dunburne, with the most ingenuous frankness, "I have clean forgot. Was
it Tom or John Robinson?"

Again the other burst out laughing. "Well," he said, "what does it matter? Thomas or John--'tis
all one. I see that you are a ragged, lousy beggar, and I believe you to be a runaway servant.
Even if that is the worst to be said of you, you will suit me very well. As for a name, I myself
will fit you with one, and it shall be of the best. I will give you a home here in the house,
and will for three months clothe you like a lord. You shall live upon the best, and shall meet
plenty of the genteelest company the Colonies can afford. All that I demand of you is that
you shall do exactly as I tell you for the three months that I so entertain you. Come. Is it
a bargain?"

Dunburne sat for a while thinking very seriously. "First of all," said he, "I must know what
is the name you have a mind to bestow upon me."

The other looked distrustfully at him for a time, and then, as though suddenly fetching up
resolution, he cried out: "Well, what then? What of it? Why should I be afraid? I'll tell you.
Your name shall be Frederick Dunburne, and you shall be the second son of the Earl of Clandennie."

Had a thunder-bolt fallen from heaven at Dunburne's feet he could not have been struck more
entirely dumb than he was at those astounding words. He knew not for the moment where to look
or what to think. At that instant the negro man came into the room, fetching the bottle of
rum and the bread and cheese he had been sent for. As the sound of his entrance struck upon
our young gentleman's senses he came to himself with the shock, and suddenly exploded into
a burst of laughter so shrill and discordant that Captain Obadiah sat staring at him as though
he believed his ragged beneficiary had gone clean out of his senses.

IV

A ROMANTIC EPISODE IN THE LIFE OF A YOUNG LADY

Miss Belinda Belford, the daughter and only child of Colonel William Belford, was a young lady
possessed of no small pretensions to personal charms of the most exalted order. Indeed, many
excellent judges in such matters regarded her, without doubt, as the reigning belle of the
Northern Colonies. Of a medium height, of a slight but generously rounded figure, she bore
herself with an indescribable grace and dignity of carriage. Her hair, which was occasionally
permitted to curl in ringlets upon her snowy neck, was of a brown so dark and so soft as at
times to deceive the admiring observer into a belief that it was black. Her eyes, likewise
of a dark-brown color, were of a most melting and liquid lustre; her nose, though slight, was
sufficiently high, and modelled with so exquisite a delicacy as to lend an exceeding charm
to her whole countenance. She was easily the belle of every assembly which she graced with
her presence, and her name was the toast of every garrison town of the Northern provinces.

Madam Belford and her lovely daughter were engaged one pleasant morning in entertaining a number
of friends, in the genteel English manner, with a dish of tea and a bit of gossip. Upon this
charming company Colonel Belford suddenly intruded, his countenance displaying an excessive
though not displeasing agitation.

"My dear! my dear!" he cried, "what a piece of news have I for you! It is incredible and past
all belief! Who, ladies, do you suppose is here in New Hope? Nay, you cannot guess; I shall
have to enlighten you. 'Tis none other than Frederick Dunburne, my lordship's second son. Yes,
you may well look amazed. I saw and spoke with him this very morning, and that not above a
half-hour ago. He is travelling incognito, but my brother Obadiah discovered his identity,
and is now entertaining him at his new house upon the Point. A large party of young officers
from the garrison are there, all very gay with cards and dice, I am told. My noble young gentleman
knew me so soon as he clapped eyes upon me. 'This,' says he, 'if I am not mistook, must be
Colonel Belford, my father's honored friend.' He is," exclaimed the speaker, "a most interesting
and ingenuous youth, with extremely lively and elegant manners, and a person exactly resembling
that of his dear and honored father."

It may be supposed into what a flutter this piece of news cast those who heard it. "My dear,"
cried Madam Belford, as soon as the first extravagance of the general surprise had passed by
to an easier acceptance of Colonel Belford's tidings--"my dear, why did you not bring him with
you to present him to us all? What an opportunity have you lost!"

"Indeed, my dear," said Colonel Belford, "I did not forget to invite him hither. He protested
that nothing could afford him greater pleasure, did he not have an engagement with some young
gentlemen from the garrison. But, believe me, I would not let him go without a promise. He
is to dine with us to-morrow at two; and, Belinda, my dear"--here Colonel Belford pinched his
daughter's blushing cheek--"you must assume your best appearance for so serious an occasion.
I am informed that my noble gentleman is extremely particular in his tastes in the matter of
female excellence."

"Indeed, papa," cried the young lady, with great vivacity, "I shall attempt no extraordinary
graces upon my young gentleman's account, and that I promise you. I protest," she exclaimed,
with spirit, "I have no great opinion of him who would come thus to New Hope without a single
word to you, who are his father's confidential correspondent. Nor do I admire the taste of
one who would choose to cast himself upon the hospitality of my uncle Obadiah rather than upon
yours."

"My dear," said Colonel Belford, very soberly, "you express your opinion with a most unwarranted
levity, considering the exalted position your subject occupies. I may, however, explain to
you that he came to America quite unexpectedly and by an accident. Nor would he have declared
his incognito, had not my brother Obadiah discovered it almost immediately upon his arrival.
He would not, he declared, have visited New Hope at all, had not Captain Obadiah Belford urged
his hospitality in such a manner as to preclude all denial."

But to this reproof Miss Belinda who, was, indeed, greatly indulged by her parents, made no
other reply than to toss her head with a pretty sauciness, and to pout her cherry lips in an
infinitely becoming manner.

But though our young lady protested so emphatically against assuming any unusual charms for
the entertainment of their expected visitor, she none the less devoted no small consideration
to that very thing that she had so exclaimed against. Accordingly, when she was presented to
her father's noble guest, what with her heightened color and her eyes sparkling with the emotions
evoked by the occasion, she so impressed our young gentleman that he could do little but stand
regarding her with an astonishment that for the moment caused him to forget those graces of
deportment that the demands of elegance called upon him to assume.

However, he recovered himself immediately, and proceeded to take such advantage of his introduction
that by the time they were seated at the dinner-table he found himself conversing with his
fair partner with all the ease and vivacity imaginable. Nor in this exchange of polite raillery
did he discover her wit to be in any degree less than her personal charms.

"Indeed, madam," he exclaimed, "I am now more than ready to thank that happy accident that
has transported me, however much against my will, from England to America. The scenery, how
beautiful! Nature, how fertile! Woman, how exquisite! Your country," he exclaimed, with enthusiasm,
"is like heaven!"

"Indeed, sir," cried the young lady, vivaciously, "I do not take your praise for a compliment.
I protest I am acquainted with no young gentleman who would not defer his enjoyment of heaven
to the very last extremity."

"To be sure," quoth our hero, "an ambition for the abode of saints is of too extreme a nature
to recommend itself to a modest young fellow of parts. But when one finds himself thrown into
the society of an houri--"

"And do you indeed have houris in England?" exclaimed the young lady. "In America you must
be content with society of a much more earthly constitution!"

"Upon my word, miss," cried our young gentleman, "you compel me to confess that I find myself
in the society of one vastly more to my inclination than that of any houri of my acquaintance."

With such lively badinage, occasionally lapsing into more serious discourse, the dinner passed
off with a great deal of pleasantness to our young gentleman, who had prepared himself for
something prodigiously dull and heavy. After the repast, a pipe of tobacco in the summer-house
and a walk in the garden so far completed his cheerful impressions that when he rode away towards
Pig and Sow Point he found himself accompanied by the most lively, agreeable thoughts imaginable.
Her wit, how subtle! Her person, how beautiful! He surprised himself smiling with a fatuous
indulgence of his enjoyable fancies.

Nor did the young lady's thoughts, though doubtless of a more moderate sort, assume a less
pleasing perspective. Our young gentleman was favored with a tall, erect figure, a high nose,
and a fine, thin face expressive of excellent breeding. It seemed to her that his manners possessed
an elegance and a grace that she had never before discovered beyond the leaves of Mr. Richardson's
ingenious novels. Nor was she unaware of the admiration of herself that his countenance had
expressed. Upon so slender a foundation she amused herself for above an hour, erecting such
castles in the air that, had any one discovered her thought, she would have perished of mortification.

But though our young lady so yielded herself to the enjoyment of such silly dreams as might
occur to any miss of a lively imagination and vivacious temperament, the reader is to understand
that she has yet so much dignity and spirit as to cover these foolish and romantic fancies
with a cloak of so delicate and so subtle a reserve that when the young gentleman called to
pay his respects the next afternoon he quitted her presence ten times more infatuated with
her charms than he had been the day before.

Nor can it be denied that our young lady knew perfectly well how to make the greatest use of
such opportunities. She already possessed a great deal of experience in teasing the other sex
with those delicious though innocent torments that cause the eyes of the victim to remain awake
at night and the fancy to dream throughout the day.

Such presently became the condition of our young gentleman that at the end of the month he
knew not whether his present life had continued for weeks or for years; in the charming infatuation
that overpowered him he considered nothing of time, every other consideration being engulfed
in his desire for the society of his charmer. Cards and dice lost for him their accustomed
pleasure, and when a gay society would be at Belford's Palace it was with the utmost difficulty
that he assumed so much patience as to take his part in those dissipations that there obtained.
Relieved from them, he flew with redoubled ardor back to the gratification of his passion again.

In the mean time Captain Obadiah had become so accustomed to the presence of his guest that
he made no pretence of any concealment of that iniquitous, dreadful avocation that lent to
Pig and Sow Point so great a terror in those parts. Rather did the West Indian appear to court
the open observation of his dependant.

One exquisite day in the last of October our young gentleman had spent the greater part of
the afternoon in the society of the beautiful object of his regard. The leaves, though fallen
from the trees in great abundance, appeared thereby only to have admitted of the passage of
a riper radiance of golden sunlight through the thinning branches. This and the ardor of his
passion had so transported our hero that when he had departed from her presence he seemed to
walk as light as a feather, and knew not whether it was the warmth of the sunlight or the heat
of his own impetuous transports that filled the universe with so extreme a brightness.

Overpowered with these absorbing and transcendent introspections, he approached his now odious
home upon Pig and Sow Point by way of the old meeting-house. There of a sudden he came upon
his patron, Captain Obadiah, superintending the burial of the last of three victims of his
odious commerce, who had died that afternoon. Two had already been interred, and the third
new-made grave was in the process of being filled. Two men, one a negro and the other a white,
had nearly completed their labor, tramping down the crumbling earth as they shovelled it into
the shallow excavation. Meanwhile Captain Obadiah stood near by, his red coat flaming in the
slanting light, himself smoking a pipe of tobacco with all the ease and coolness imaginable.
His hands, clasped behind his back, held his ivory-headed cane, and as our hero approached
he turned an evil countenance upon him, and greeted him with a grin at once droll, mischievous,
and malevolent in the extreme. "And how is our pretty charmer this afternoon?" quoth Captain
Obadiah.

Conceive, if you please, of a man floating in the most ecstatic delight of heaven pulled suddenly
thence down into the most filthy extremity of hell, and then you shall understand the motions
of disgust and repugnance and loathing that overpowered our hero, who, awakening thus suddenly
out of his dream of love, found himself in the presence of that grim and obscene spectacle
of death--who, arousing from such absorbing and exquisite meditations, heard his ears greeted
with so rude and vulgar an address.

Acknowledging to himself that he did not dare offer an immediate reply to his host, he turned
upon his heel and walked away, without expressing a single word.

He was not, however, permitted to escape thus easily. He had not taken above twenty steps,
when, hearing footsteps behind him, he turned his head to discover Captain Obadiah skipping
rapidly after him in a prodigious hurry, swinging his cane and chuckling preposterously to
himself, as though in the enjoyment of some most exquisite piece of drollery. "What!" he cried,
as soon as he could catch his breath from his hurry. "What! What! Can't you answer, you villain?
Why, blind my eyes! a body would think you were a lord's son indeed, instead of being, as I
know you, a beggarly runaway servant whom I took in like a mangy cat out of the rain. But come,
come--no offence, my boy! I'll be no hard master to you. I've heard how the wind blows, and
I've kept my ears open to all your doings. I know who is your sweetheart. Harkee, you rascal!
You have a fancy for my niece, have you? Well, your apple is ripe if you choose to pick it.
Marry your charmer and be damned; and if you'll serve me by taking her thus in hand, I'll pay
you twenty pounds upon your wedding-day. Now what do you say to that, you lousy beggar in borrowed
clothes?"

Our young gentleman stopped short and looked his tormentor full in the face. The thought of
his father's anger alone had saved him from entangling himself in the web of his passions;
this he forgot upon the instant. "Captain Obadiah Belford," quoth he, "you're the most consummate
villain ever I beheld in all of my life; but if I have the good-fortune to please the young
lady, I wish I may die if I don't serve you in this!"

At these words Captain Obadiah, who appeared to take no offence at his guest's opinion of his
honesty, burst out into a great boisterous laugh, flinging back his head and dropping his lower
jaw so preposterously that the setting sun shone straight down his wide and cavernous gullet.

The day had been fixed, and all the circumstances arranged with such particularity that an
invitation was regarded as the highest honor that could befall the fortunate recipient. There
were to be present on this interesting occasion two Colonial governors and their ladies, an
English general, the captain of the flag-ship Achilles, and above a score of Colonial magnates
and ladies of distinction.

Captain Obadiah had not been bidden to either the ceremony or the breakfast. This rebuff he
had accepted with prodigious amusement, which, not limiting itself to the immediate occasion,
broke forth at intervals for above two weeks. Now it might express itself in chuckles of the
most delicious entertainment, vented as our Captain walked up and down the hall of his great
house, smoking his pipe and cracking the knuckles of his fingers; at other times he would burst
forth into incontrollable fits of laughter at the extravagant deceit which he believed himself
to be imposing upon his brother, Colonel Belford.

At length came the wedding-day, with such circumstances of pomp and display as the exceeding
wealth and Colonial dignity of Colonel Belford could surround it. For the wedding-breakfast
the great folding-doors between the drawing-room and the dining-room of Colonel Belford's house
were flung wide open, and a table extending the whole length of the two apartments was set
with the most sumptuous and exquisite display of plate and china. Around the board were collected
the distinguished company, and the occasion was remarkable not less for the richness of its
display than for the exquisite nature of the repast intended to celebrate so auspicious an
occasion.

At the head of the board sat the young couple, radiant with an engrossing happiness that took
no thought of what the future might have in store for it, but was contented with the triumphant
ecstasy of the moment.

These elegant festivities were at their height, when there suddenly arose a considerable disputation
in the hallway beyond, and before any one could inquire as to what was occurring, Captain Obadiah
Belford came stumping into the room, swinging his ivory-headed cane, and with an expression
of the most malicious triumph impressed upon his countenance. Directing his address to the
bridegroom, and paying no attention to any other one of the company, he cried out: "Though
not bidden to this entertainment, I have come to pay you a debt I owe. Here is twenty pounds
I promised to pay you for marrying my niece."

Therewith he drew a silk purse full of gold pieces from his pocket, which he hung over the
ferrule of his cane and reached across the table to the bridegroom. That gentleman, upon his
part (having expected some such episode as this), arose, and with a most polite and elaborate
bow accepted the same and thrust it into his pocket.

"And now, my young gentleman," cried Captain Obadiah, folding his arms and tucking his cane
under his armpit, looking the while from under his brows upon the company with a most malevolent
and extravagant grin-- "and now, my young gentleman, perhaps you will favor the ladies and
gentlemen here present with an account of what services they are I thus pay for."

"To be sure I will," cried out our hero, "and that with the utmost willingness in the world."

During all this while the elegant company had sat as with suspended animation, overwhelmed
with wonder at the singular address of the intruder. Even the servants stood still with the
dishes in their hands the better to hear the outcome of the affair. The bride, overwhelmed
by a sudden and inexplicable anxiety, felt the color quit her face, and reaching out, seized
her lover's hand, who took hers very readily, holding it tight within his grasp. As for Colonel
and Madam Belford, not knowing what this remarkable address portended, they sat as though turned
to stone, the one gone as white as ashes, and the other as red in the face as a cherry. Our
young gentleman, however, maintained the utmost coolness and composure of demeanor. Pointing
his finger towards the intruder, he exclaimed: "In Captain Obadiah Belford, ladies and gentlemen,
you behold the most unmitigated villain that ever I met in all of my life. With an incredible
spite and vindictiveness he not only pursued my honored father-in-law, Colonel Belford, but
has sought to wreak an unwarranted revenge upon the innocent and virtuous young lady whom I
have now the honor to call my wife. But how has he overreached himself in his machinations!
How has he entangled his feet in the net which he himself has spread! I will tell you my history,
as he bids me to do, and you may then judge for yourselves!"

At this unexpected address Captain Obadiah's face fell from its expression of malicious triumph,
growing longer and longer, until at last it was overclouded with so much doubt and anxiety
that, had he been threatened by the loss of a thousand pounds, he could not have assumed a
greater appearance of mortification and dejection. Meantime, regarding him with a mischievous
smile, our young gentleman began the history of all those adventures that had befallen him
from the time he embarked upon the memorable expedition with his two companions in dissipation
from York Stairs. As his account proceeded Captain Obadiah's face altered by degrees from its
natural brown to a sickly yellow, and then to so leaden a hue that it could not have assumed
a more ghastly appearance were he about to swoon dead away. Great beads of sweat gathered upon
his forehead and trickled down his cheeks. At last he could endure no more, but with a great
and strident voice, such as might burst forth from a devil tormented, he cried out: "'Tis a
lie! 'Tis all a monstrous lie! He is a beggarly runaway servant whom I took in out of the rain
and fed and housed--to have him turn thus against me and strike the hand that has benefited him!"

"Sir," replied our young gentleman, with a moderate and easy voice, "what I tell you is no
lie, but the truth. If any here misdoubts my veracity, see, here is a letter received by the
last packet from my honored father. You, Colonel Belford, know his handwriting perfectly well.
Look at this and tell me if I am deceiving you."

At these words Colonel Belford took the letter with a hand that trembled as though with palsy.
He cast his eyes over it, but it is to be doubted whether he read a single word therein contained.
Nevertheless, he saw enough to satisfy his doubts, and he could have wept, so great was the
relief from the miserable and overwhelming anxiety that had taken possession of him since the
beginning of his brother's discourse.

Meantime our young gentleman, turning to Captain Obadiah, cried out, "Sir, I am indeed an instrument
of Providence sent hither to call your wickedness to account," and this he spoke with so virtuous
an air as to command the admiration of all who heard him. "I have," he continued, "lived with
you now for nearly three odious months, and I know every particular of your habits and such
circumstances of your life as you are aware of. I now proclaim how you have wickedly and sacrilegiously
turned the Old Free Grace Meeting-House into a slave-pen, whence for above a year you have
conducted a nefarious and most inhuman commerce with the West Indies."

At these words Captain Obadiah, being thrown so suddenly upon his defence, forced himself to
give forth a huge and boisterous laugh. "What then?" he cried. "What wickedness is there in
that? What if I have provided a few sugar plantations with negro slaves? Are there not those
here present who would do no better if the opportunity offered? The place is mine, and I break
no law by a bit of quiet slave-trading."

"I marvel," cried our young gentleman, still in the same virtuous strain--"I marvel that you
can pass over so wicked a thing thus easily. I myself have counted above fifty graves of your
victims on Pig and Sow Point. Repent, sir, while there is yet time."

But to this adjuration Captain Obadiah returned no other reply than to burst into a most wicked,
impudent laugh.

"Is it so?" cried our young gentleman. "Do you dare me to further exposures? Then I have here
another evidence to confront you that may move you to a more serious consideration." With these
words he drew forth from his pocket a packet wrapped in soft white paper. This he unfolded,
holding up to the gaze of all a bright and shining object. "This," he exclaimed, "I found in
Captain Obadiah's writing-desk while I was hunting for some wax with which to seal a letter."
It was the gold snuffbox of the late Collector Goodhouse. "What," he cried, "have you, sir,
to offer in explanation of the manner in which this came into your possession? See, here engraved
upon the lid is the owner's name and the circumstance of his having saved my own poor life.
It was that first called my attention to it, for I well recollect how my father compelled me
to present it to my savior. How came it into your possession, and why have you hidden it away
so carefully for all this while? Sir, in the death of Lieutenant Goodhouse I suspect you of
a more sinister fault than that of converting yonder poor sanctuary into a slave-pen. So soon
as Captain Morris of your slave-ship returns from Jamaica I shall have him arrested, and shall
compel him to explain what he knows of the circumstances of the Lieutenant's unfortunate murder."

At the sight of so unexpected an object in the young gentleman's hand Captain Obadiah's jaw
fell, and his cavernous mouth gaped as though he had suddenly been stricken with a palsy. He
lifted a trembling hand and slowly and mechanically passed it along that cheek which was so
discolored with gunpowder stain. Then, suddenly gathering himself together and regaining those
powers that appeared for a moment to have fled from him, he cried out, aloud: "I swear to God
'twas all an accident! I pushed him down the steps, and he fell and broke his neck!"

Our young gentleman regarded him with a cold and collected smile. "That, sir," said he, "you
shall have the opportunity to explain to the proper authorities--unless," he added, "you choose
to take yourself away from these parts, and to escape the just resentment of those laws to
which you may be responsible for your misdemeanors."

"I shall," roared Captain Obadiah, "stand my trial in spite of you all! I shall live to see
you in torments yet! I shall--" He gaped and stuttered, but could find no further words with
which to convey his infinite rage and disappointed spite. Then turning, and with a furious
gesture, he rushed forth and out of the house, thrusting those aside who stood in his way,
and leaving behind him a string of curses fit to set the whole world into a blaze.

He had destroyed all the gaiety of the wedding-breakfast, but the relief from the prodigious
doubts and anxieties that had at first overwhelmed those whom he had intended to ruin was of
so great a nature that they thought nothing of so inconsiderable a circumstance.

As for our young gentleman, he had come forth from the adventure with such dignity of deportment
and with so exalted an air of generous rectitude that those present could not sufficiently
admire at the continent discretion of one so young. The young lady whom he had married, if
she had before regarded him as a Paris and an Achilles incorporated into one person, now added
the wisdom of a Nestor to the category of his accomplishments.

Captain Obadiah, in spite of the defiance he had fulminated against his enemies, and in spite
of the determination he had expressed to remain and to stand his trial, was within a few days
known to have suddenly and mysteriously departed from New Hope. Whether or not he misdoubted
his own rectitude too greatly to put it to the test of a trial, or whether the mortification
incident upon the failure of his plot was too great for him to support, it was clearly his
purpose never to return again. For within a month the more valuable of his belongings were
removed from his great house upon Pig and Sow Point and were loaded upon a bark that came into
the harbor for that purpose. Thence they were transported no one knew whither, for Captain
Obadiah was never afterwards observed in those parts.

Nor was the old meeting-house ever again disturbed by such manifestations as had terrified
the community for so long a time. Nevertheless, though the Devil was thus exorcised from his
abiding-place, the old church never lost its evil reputation, until it was finally destroyed
by fire about ten years after the incidents herein narrated.

In conclusion it is only necessary to say that when the Honorable Frederick Dunburne presented
his wife to his noble family at home, he was easily forgiven his mésalliance in view of her
extreme beauty and vivacity. Within a year or two Lord Carrickford, his elder brother, died
of excessive dissipation in Florence, where he was then attached to the English Embassy, so
that our young gentleman thus became the heir-apparent to his father's title, and so both branches
of the family were united into one.

THE END

