Several other people were successively arrested and placed either in the Bastille or Vincennes.
The commotion caused by the arrest and imprisonment of M. and Madame du Maine was great; many
faces, already elongated by the Bed of justice, were still further pulled out by these events.
The Chief-President, D'Effiat, the Marechal de Villeroy, the Marechal de Villars, the Marechal
d'Huxelles, and other devoted friends of M. du Maine, were completely terrified; they did not
dare to say a word; they kept out of the way; did not leave their houses except from necessity;
fear was painted upon their faces.  All their pride was put aside; they became polite, caressing,
would have eaten out of your hand; and by this sudden change and their visible embarrassment
betrayed themselves.

As for the Comte de Toulouse he remained as upright and loyal as ever. The very day of the
double arrest he came to M. le Duc d'Orleans and said that he regarded the King, the Regent,
and the State as one and the same thing; that he should never be wanting in his duty or in
his fidelity towards them; that he was very sorry at what had happened to his brother, but
that he was in no way answerable for him.  The Regent stated this to me the same day, and appeared,
with reason, to be charmed with such straightforward honesty.

This arrest of M. and Madame du Maine had another effect.  For some time past, a large quantity
of illicit salt had been sold throughout the country.  The people by whom this trade was conducted,
'faux sauniers', as they were called, travelled over the provinces in bands well armed and
well organized.  So powerful had they become that troops were necessary in order to capture
them.  There were more than five thousand faux saumers, who openly carried on their traffic
in Champagne and Picardy. They had become political instruments in the hands of others, being
secretly encouraged and commanded by those who wished to sow trouble in the land.  It could
not be hidden that these 'faux sauniers' were redoubtable by their valour and their arrangements;
that the people were favourable to them, buying as they did from them salt at a low price,
and irritated as they were against the gabelle and other imposts; that these 'faux sauniers'
spread over all the realm, and often marching in large bands, which beat all opposed to them,
were dangerous people, who incited the population by their examples to opposition against the
government.

I had proposed on one occasion the abolition of the salt tax to the Regent, as a remedy for
these evils; but my suggestion shared the fate of many others.  It was favourably listened
to, and nothing more.  And meanwhile the 'faux sauniers' had gone on increasing.  I had no
difficulty in discovering by whom they were encouraged, and the event showed I was right. 
Directly after the arrest of M. and Madame du Maine, the 'faux sauniers' laid down their arms,
asked, and obtained pardon. This prompt submission showed dearly enough by whom they had been
employed, and for what reason.  I had uselessly told M. le Duc d'Orleans so long before, who
admitted that I was right, but did nothing.  It was his usual plan.

Let me finish at once with all I shall have to say respecting M. and Madame du Maine.

They remained in their prisons during the whole of the year 1719, supplied with all the comforts
and attentions befitting their state, and much less rigorously watched than at first, thanks
to the easy disposition of M. le Duc d'Orleans, whose firmness yielded even more rapidly than
beauty to the effects of time.  The consequence of his indulgence towards the two conspirators
was, that at about the commencement of the following year, 1720, they began to play a very
ridiculous comedy, of which not a soul was the dupe; not even the public, nor the principal
actors, nor the Regent.

The Duc and Duchesse du Maine, thanks to the perfidy of the Abbe Dubois, had had time to hide
away all their papers, and to arrange together the different parts they should play.  Madame
du Maine, supported by her sex and birth, muffled herself up in her dignity, when replying
to the questions addressed to her, of which just as many, and no more, were read to the replying
counsel as pleased the Abbe Dubois; and strongly accusing Cellamare and others; protected as
much as possible her friends, her husband above all, by charging herself with all; by declaring
that what she had done M. du Maine had no knowledge of; and that its object went no farther
than to obtain from the Regent such reforms in his administration as were wanted.

The Duc du Maine, shorn of his rank and of his title of prince of the blood, trembled for his
life.  His crimes against the state, against the blood royal, against the person of the Regent,
so long, so artfully, and so cruelly offended, troubled him all the more because he felt they
deserved severe punishment.  He soon, therefore, conceived the idea of screening himself beneath
his wife's petticoats.  His replies, and all his observations were to the same tune; perfect
ignorance of everything. Therefore when the Duchess had made her confessions, and they were
communicated to him, he cried out against his wife,--her madness, her felony,--his misfortune
in having a wife capable of conspiring, and daring enough to implicate him in everything without
having spoken to him; making him thus a criminal without being so the least in the world; and
keeping him so ignorant of her doings, that it was out of his power to stop them, to chide
her, or inform M. le Duc d'Orleans if things had been pushed so far that he ought to have done so!

From that time the Duc du Maine would no longer hear talk of a woman who, without his knowledge,
had cast him and his children into this abyss; and when at their release from prison, they
were permitted to write and send messages to each other, he would receive nothing from her,
or give any signs of life.  Madame du Maine, on her side, pretended to be afflicted at this
treatment; admitting, nevertheless, that she had acted wrongfully towards her husband in implicating
him without his knowledge in her schemes.  They were at this point when they were allowed to
come near Paris.  M. du Maine went to live at Clagny, a chateau near Versailles, built for
Madame de Montespan.  Madame du Maine went to Sceaux.  They came separately to see M. le Duc
d'Orleans at Paris, without sleeping there; both played their parts, and as the Abbe Dubois
judged the time had come to take credit to himself in their eyes for finishing their disgrace,
he easily persuaded M. le Duc d'Orleans to, appear convinced of the innocence of M. du Maine.

During their stay in the two country-houses above named, where they saw but little company,
Madame du Maine made many attempts at reconciliation with her husband, which he repelled. 
This farce lasted from the month of January (when they arrived at Sceaux and at Clagny) to
the end of July. Then they thought the game had lasted long enough to be put an end to. They
had found themselves quit of all danger so cheaply, and counted so much upon the Abbe Dubois,
that they were already thinking of returning to their former considerations; and to work at
this usefully, they must be in a position to see each other, and commence by establishing themselves
in Paris, where they would of necessity live together.

The sham rupture had been carried to this extent, that the two sons of the Duc du Maine returned
from Eu to Clagny a few days after him, did not for a long time go and see Madame du Maine,
and subsequently saw her but rarely, and without sleeping under her roof.

At last a resolution being taken to put an end to the comedy, this is how it was terminated
by another.

