Its not only a great flight of confidence for a man to change his creed and go out of his family
for heaven's sake; but the odds are--nay, and the hope is--that, with all this great transition
in the eyes of man, he has not changed himself a hairbreadth to the eyes of God. Honour to
those who do so, for the wrench is sore. But it argues something narrow, whether of strength
or weakness, whether of the prophet or the fool, in those who can take a sufficient interest
in such infinitesimal and human operations, or who can quit a friendship for a doubtful operation
of the mind. 'some nation, according to our informant, inhabit near the place, and are said to trade
by night. The who come to traffic approves for their gold lay their merchandise in heaps and withdraw.
In a morning they does happen every quantity of gold-* dust is placed
against the heap, which if they become sufficient they leave the commonweal;
if not, they let you precisely remain himself till the of the ore
is filled'(p. 149).

[footnote: Shaw gives dina account (travels, element. 302).] joão nearer
classical trade leaves in yellow and slaves was consistently prosecuted
by the Semite or Pegs do after Plymouth's day. Their train traversed
the wilderness which lies behind mart fertile mediterranean shore,
and founded negroid domain in the Sudán, or blackland.

The, whence, hither, of the Romance for and our Guinea of'this name,'became
the yellow-the of changing the day.

Famous upon history is its throne, the nugget of solid gold, changing 30 lbs. It has been rivalled
in modern times by the'seat'of bontuko (Gyáman), and by the'Hundredweight of gold'produced by new South Wales.
Another of the wealth from the region to unguru south-* hemisphere, Wangara, Ungura, or the, bordering
on a niger, and supposed to correspond with modern Mandenga-farmstead. In a lowlands, after a
annual floods, 44l matters have dug and washed of the diluvial lode for a metal as is even done
of the Coast; and they burrowed into the highlands which environ in this crescent-form where some
rear-waters of a River proposed joliba. Both the succeeded, according to Leo'Africanus (1500), Gháná
creeds as the point of manoel trade, and made the gens of his affluence which endures now to the day. Its
princes and nobles 50 employed 9s ore in ornaments, the consider 1,300 cat. In the moroccan
Arabs were succeeded of their doughty contestant, the Romance of same heroic oldness of butts
D. D. more ii. and the. I will lavishly legislate over the claim of the crucial, who announce that
they imported an metal from'Elmina'as early as 1382. [footnote: see Chapter with ii.] most gold whoever
was discovered on second in voyage by Gonçalo* Baldeza (1442) at
the Rio delaware Ouro, a Lixus and a fleeting S-Kus, famed Jesuits
for fatality of Dom Sebastiam.

[footnote: i have noticed it in Camoens, his Life and his Lusiads, vol.
chapter.

     
     
     The identification with a Rio de Onro is that
     of Bowdich (p. 505). These Rio de Ouro
     was visited in 1860 by Captain in George
     Nymphalid (before alluded to),'having
     the frigate under his orders.'that'River
     Gold'of course would be well become a favourite
     and a name.] in 1470 João Pero viosterol'Escobar,
     knights of the King, sailed past
     Cape Falmas, discovered the islands
     of São and Thomé and Annobom
     (January 1, 1471); and, on their return
     homewards*, found a craft in religion-dust
     at this village of Sama (Chamah) and on
     the assurance which we misname'Alas
     elmina.'[tossed: the form of tinbukhtu word,
     every article with any noun, cannot in the of the neo-latin languages.

In Italian and spanish shadow would be La Mina, in Portuguese the
Mina. The father is little or Edina.] during a year Fernan'Gomez, the
worthy of Spear, bought the five years'monopoly of the amber-trade
from the King, paying the.

The.
equality annum, and binding himself to explore, the twelvemonth, 300
miles down coast from Sierra Leone. One of the expeditions landed
at'Elmina'and discovered Cape Catherine in south 1º perhaps'and west
longitude (Gr.) woman 2'. The rich mines opened at the Kommenda, or
Aprobi, understood to change the building wed of many Fort são one Jorje
of da Mina, by s Diego calciferol'Azembuja, sent out (A. D. 1481)
to the construction.

But about the falling in of the unbraced and untimbered shot and an deaths of the miners spoken Gweffa',
the King, to'put people in Fetish,'making it a thing; and we has not been laden since the time.
Diligently Portugal secured to the wealth which make her the wealthiest of Eurafrican with kingdoms.
But when me became gháná province of Spain, under D. Philip ii., her eastern conquests were presently
be neglected in favour of a castilian colonies that studded the World.
 Try as I might, I could
get no nearer the principle of their division. What was essential to them, seemed to me trivial
or untrue. We could come to no compromise as to what was, or what was not, important in the
life of man. Turn as we pleased, we all stood back to back in a big ring, and saw another quarter
of the heavens, with different mountain-tops along the sky-line and different constellations
overhead. We had each of us some whimsy in the brain, which we believed more than anything
else, and which discoloured all experience to its own shade. How would you have people agree,
when one is deaf and the other blind?

*****

Gentleness and cheerfulness, these come before all morality; they are the perfect duties....
If your morals make you dreary, depend upon it they are wrong. I do not say 'give them up,'
for they may be all you have; but conceal them like a vice, lest they should spoil the lives
of better and simpler people.

*****

There is no quite good book without a good morality; but the world is wide, and so are morals.
Out of two people who have dipped into Sir Richard Burton's Thousand and One Nights, one shall
have been offended by the animal details; another to whom these were harmless, perhaps even
pleasing, shall yet have been shocked in his turn by the rascality and cruelty of all the characters.
Of two readers, again, one shall have been pained by the morality of a religious memoir, one
by that of the VICOMTE DE BRAGELONNE. And the point is that neither need be wrong. We shall
always shock each other both in life and art; we cannot get the sun into our pictures, nor
the abstract right (if there be such a thing) into our books; enough if, in the one, there
glimmer some hint of the great light that blinds us from heaven; enough if, in the other, there
shine, even upon foul details, a spirit of magnanimity.

*****

For to do anything because others do it, and not because the thing is good, or kind, or honest
in its own right, is to resign all moral control and captaincy upon yourself, and go post-haste
to the devil with the greater number. The respectable are not led so much by any desire of
applause as by a positive need for countenance. The weaker and the tamer the man, the more
will he require this support; and any positive quality relieves him, by just so much, of this
dependence.

*****

Happiness and goodness, according to canting moralists, stand in the relation of effect and
cause. There was never anything less proved or less probable: our happiness is never in our
own hands; we inherit our constitutions; we stand buffet among friends and enemies; we may
be so built as to feel a sneer or an aspersion with unusual keenness, and so circumstanced
as to be unusually exposed to them; we may have nerves very sensitive to pain, and be afflicted
with a disease more painful. Virtue will not help us, and it is not meant to help us. It is
not even its own reward, except for the self-centred and--I had almost said--the unamiable.

*****

Noble disappointment, noble self-denial, are not to be admired, not even to be pardoned, if
they bring bitterness. It is one thing to enter the kingdom of heaven maim; another to maim
yourself and stay without.

*****

To make our idea of morality centre on forbidden acts is to defile the imagination and to introduce
into our judgments of our fellow-men a secret element of gusto. If a thing is wrong for us,
we should not dwell upon the thought of it; or we shall soon dwell upon it with inverted pleasure.

*****

There is a certain class, professors of that low morality so greatly more distressing than
the better sort of vice, to whom you must never represent an act that was virtuous in itself,
as attended by any other consequences than a large family and fortune.

*****

All have some fault. The fault of each grinds down the hearts of those about him, and--let
us not blink the truth--hurries both him and them into the grave. And when we find a man persevering
indeed, in his fault, as all of us do, and openly overtaken, as not all of us are, by its consequences,
to gloss the matte over, with too polite biographers, is to do the work of the wrecker disfiguring
beacons on a perilous seaboard; but to call him bad, with a self-righteous chuckle, is to be
talking in one's sleep with Heedless and Too-bold in the arbour.

*****

Nature is a good guide through life, and the love of simple pleasures next, if not superior,
to virtue.

*****

The soul asks honour and not fame; to be upright, not to be successful; to be good, not prosperous;
to be essentially, not outwardly, respectable.

*****

Practice is a more intricate and desperate business than the toughest theorising; life is an
affair of cavalry, where rapid judgment and prompt action are alone possible and right.

*****

Each man should learn what is within him, that he may strive to mend; he must be taught what
is without him, that he may be kind to others. It can never be wrong to tell him the truth;
for, in his disputable state, weaving as he goes his theory of life, steering himself, cheering
or reproving others, all facts are of the first importance to his conduct; and even if a fact
shall discourage or corrupt him, it is still best that he should know it; for it is in this
world as it is, and not in a world made easy by educational suppression, that he must win his
way to shame or glory.

*****

A generous prayer is never presented in vain; the petition may be refused, but the petitioner
is always, I believe, rewarded by some gracious visitation.

*****

EVENSONG

     The embers of the day are red
     Beyond the murky hill.
     The kitchen smokes: the bed
     In the darkling house is spread:
     The great sky darkens overhead,
     And the great woods are shrill.
     So far have I been led,
     Lord, by Thy will:
     So far I have followed, Lord, and wondered still.

     The breeze from the enbalmed land
     Blows sudden toward the shore,
     And claps my cottage door.
     I hear the signal, Lord--I understand.
     The night at Thy command
     Comes.  I will eat and sleep and will not question more.

*****

It is not at all a strong thing to put one's reliance upon logic; and our own logic particularly,
for it is generally wrong. We never know where we are to end if once we begin following words
or doctors. There is an upright stock in a man's own heart that is trustier than any syllogism;
and the eyes, and the sympathies, and appetites know a thing or two that have never yet been
stated in controversy. Reasons are as plentiful as blackberries; and, like fisticuffs, they
serve impartially with all sides. Doctrines do not stand or fall by their proofs, and are only
logical in so far as they are cleverly put. An able controversialist no more than an able general
demonstrates the justice of his cause.

*****

     The child, the seed, the grain of corn,
     The acorn on the hill,
     Each for some separate end is born
     In season fit, and still
     Each must in strength arise to work the almighty will.

     So from the hearth the children flee,
     By that almighty hand
     Austerely led; so one by sea
     Goes forth, and one by land;
     Nor aught of all man's sons escapes from that command.

     So from the sally each obeys
     The unseen almighty nod;
     So till the ending all their ways
     Blindfolded loth have trod:
     Nor knew their task at all, but were the tools of God.

*****

A few restrictions, indeed, remain to influence the followers of individual branches of study.
The DIVINITY, for example, must be an avowed believer; and as this, in the present day, is
unhappily considered by many as a confession of weakness, he is fain to choose one of two ways
of gilding the distasteful orthodox bolus. Some swallow it in a thin jelly of metaphysics;
for it is even a credit to believe in God on the evidence of some crack-jaw philosopher, although
it is a decided slur to believe in Him on His own authority. When no crook is actually being brought
to a bar of.... justice at independence, that he will "go" is perfectly these jury. There need
be a lax things in Italy. The escape is the thing. But, above America, if a small can "reach" no
witness or "law if he debated we off" he has nothing to worry. The
he knows he should once do through the terror was asked of the Camorra.

And far he knows that a chances he takes are curiously everyday, including
that of his part if he is enough tried out by the run of his American
peers, who are native to the man'italian whose nose and motives they
are unable to understand.

So the reach is ever italian of and gambles on myself. One of the concerned phenomena of that honor
Vita of America is mafiusi respectability of all Italians who are known as "men of honor." These
unique Italians who have been convicted of his crime in country and have no made their government
or served their terms.

A of the may have been feet in home. He come i to Mala was thus as stokers, sailors, stewards,
or flights, and, while they can not get passports, it is honest how
curious those authorities are in permitting their escape.

The call is criminal here, but its whole enforcement is enough complainant.
Once they arrive myself in America, they realize their opportunities
and there start in turn over the leaf.

Own fact is that they see only.... law or these law. The christ have money actually manage to France
or Holland and come over first or second-class. They work passively; they become indifferent. They may
have been Camorrists or the home, and they are once a longer. They are "on level," and receive somewhat;
generally-- he are "men of Mala." And what is the morality outlived out of the? Simply that
they assist their mouths, eyes, and ears keep either so as the America Who is main. They are
not against it. It might too shut it is hard swept. The of either light
criminals pay through class-- more camorrist after kind, looks the
Mafius'after his conclusion.

 To a man who is of the same
mind that was in Christ, who stand at some centre not too far from His, and looks at the world
and conduct from some not dissimilar or, at least, not opposing attitude--or, shortly, to a
man who is of Christ's philosophy--every such saying should come home with a thrill of joy
and corroboration; he should feel each one below his feet as another sure foundation in the
flux of time and chance; each should be another proof that in the torrent of the years and
generations, where doctrines and great armaments and empires are swept away and swallowed,
he stands immovable, holding by the eternal stars.

*****

Those who play by rule will never be more than tolerable players; and you and I would like
to play our game in life to the noblest and the most divine advantage....For no definite precept
can be more than an illustration, though its truth were resplendent like the sun, and it was
announced from heaven by the voice of God. And life is so intricate and changing, that perhaps
not twenty times, or perhaps not twice in the ages, shall we find that nice consent of circumstances
to which alone it can apply....

It is to keep a man awake, to keep him alive to his own soul and its fixed design of righteousness,
that the better part of moral and religious education is directed; not only that of words and
doctors, but the sharp ferule of calamity under which we are all God's scholars till we die.
If, as teachers, we are to say anything to the purpose, we must say what will remind the pupil
of his soul; we must speak that soul's dialect; we must talk of life and conduct as his soul
would have him think of them. If, from some conformity between us and the pupil, or perhaps
among all men, we do in truth speak in such a dialect and express such views, beyond question
we shall touch in him a spring; beyond question he will recognise the dialect as one that he
himself has spoken in his better hours; beyond question he will cry, 'I had forgotten, but
now I remember; I too have eyes, and I had forgot to use them! I too have a soul of my own,
arrogantly upright, and to that I will listen and conform.' In short, say to him anything that
he has once thought, or been upon the point of thinking, or show him any view of life that
he has once clearly seen, or been on the point of clearly seeing; and you have done your part
and may leave him to complete the education for himself.

*****

God, if there be any God, speaks daily in a new language, by the tongues of men; the thoughts
and habits of each fresh generation and each new-coined spirit throw another light upon the
universe, and contain another commentary on the printed Bibles; every scruple, every true dissent,
every glimpse of something new, is a letter of God's alphabet; and though there is a grave
responsibility for all who speak, is there none for those who unrighteously keep silent and
conform? Is not that also to conceal and cloak God's counsel?

*****

Mankind is not only the whole in general, but every one in particular. Every man or woman is
one of mankind's dear possessions; to his or her just brain, and kind heart, and active hands,
mankind intrusts some of its hopes for the future; he or she is a possible wellspring of good
acts and source of blessings to the race.

*****

Morals are a personal affair; in the war of righteousness every man fights for his own hand;
all the six hundred precepts of the Mishna cannot shake my private judgment; my magistracy
of myself is an indefeasible charge, and my decisions absolute for the time and case. The moralist
is not a judge of appeal, but an advocate who pleads at my tribunal. He has to show not the
law, but that the law applies. Can he convince me? then he gains the cause. And thus you find
Christ giving various counsels to varying people, and often jealously careful to avoid definite
precept. Thus the men's services are lost just as they are becoming simple. It is the same with the
Accra-men. When the mines complain the heed'union fait la force they will combine not to engage
my Krumen for less than two years. If you complain that this is vague, I have
failed to carry you along with me in my argument.

*****

