<<<<<Corollary--This pleasure is fostered more and more, in proportion as a man conceives himself
to be praised by others. For the more he conceives himself as praised by others, the more he
will imagine them to be affected with pleasure, accompanied by the idea of himself (III. xxix.
note); thus he is (III. xxvii.) himself affected with greater pleasure, accompanied by the
idea of himself.  Q.E.D.

LIV. The mind endeavours to conceive only such things as assert its power of activity.

>>>>>Proof--The endeavour or power of the mind is the actual essence thereof (III. vii.); but
the essence of the mind obviously only affirms that which the mind is and can do; not that
which it neither is nor can do; therefore the mind endeavours to conceive only such things
as assert or affirm its power of activity.  Q.E.D.

LV. When the mind contemplates its own weakness, it feels pain thereat.

>>>>>Proof--The essence of the mind only affirms that which the mind is, or can do; in other
words, it is the mind's nature to conceive only such things as assert its power of activity
(last Prop.).  Thus, when we say that the mind contemplates its own weakness, we are merely
saying that while the mind is attempting to conceive something which asserts its power of activity,
it is checked in its endeavour -- in other words (III. xi. note), it feels pain.  Q.E.D.

<<<<<Corollary--This pain is more and more fostered, if a man conceives that he is blamed by
others; this may be proved in the same way as the corollary to III. liii.

*****Note--This pain, accompanied by the idea of our own weakness, is called "humility;" the
pleasure, which springs from the contemplation of ourselves, is called "self-love" or "self-
complacency."  And inasmuch as this feeling is renewed as often as a man contemplates his own
virtues, or his own power of activity, it follows that everyone is fond of narrating his own
exploits, and displaying the force both of his body and mind, and also that, for this reason,
men are troublesome to one another.  Again, it follows that men are naturally envious (III.
xxiv. note, and III. xxxii. note), rejoicing in the shortcomings of their equals, and feeling
pain at their virtues.  For whenever a man conceives his own actions, he is affected with pleasure
(III. liii.), in proportion as his actions display more perfection, and he conceives them more
distinctly -- that is (II. xl. note), in proportion as he can distinguish them from others,
and regard them as something special.  Therefore, a man will take most pleasure in contemplating
himself, when he contemplates some quality which he denies to others.  But, if that which he
affirms of himself be attributable to the idea of man or animals in general, he will not be
so greatly pleased:  he will, on the contrary, feel pain, if he conceives that his own actions
fall short when compared with those of others.  This pain (III. xxviii.) he will endeavour
to remove, by putting a wrong construction on the actions of his equals, or by, as far as he
can, embellishing his own.

It is thus apparent that men are naturally prone to hatred and envy, which latter is fostered
by their education.  For parents are accustomed to incite their children to virtue solely by
the spur of honour and envy.  But, perhaps, some will scruple to assent to what I have said,
because we not seldom admire men's virtues, and venerate their possessors.  In order to remove
such doubts, I append the following corollary.

<<<<<Corollary--No one envies the virtue of anyone who is not his equal.

>>>>>Proof--Envy is a species of hatred (III. xxiv. note) or (III. xiii. note) pain, that is
(III. xi. note), a modification whereby a man's power of activity, or endeavour towards activity,
is checked.  But a man does not endeavour or desire to do anything, which cannot follow from
his nature as it is given; therefore a man will not desire any power of activity or virtue
(which is the same thing) to be attributed to him, that is appropriate to another's nature
and foreign to his own; hence his desire cannot be checked, nor he himself pained by the contemplation
of virtue in some one unlike himself, consequently he cannot envy such an one.  But he can
envy his equal, who is assumed to have the same nature as himself.  Q.E.D.

*****Note--When, therefore, as we said in the note to III. lii., we venerate a man, through
wonder at his prudence, fortitude, &c., we do so, because we conceive those qualities to be
peculiar to him, and not as common to our nature; we, therefore, no more envy their possessor,
than we envy trees for being tall, or lions for being courageous.

LVI. There are as many kinds of pleasure, of pain, of desire, and of every emotion compounded
of these, such as vacillations of spirit, or derived from these, such as love, hatred, hope,
fear, &c., as there are kinds of objects whereby we are affected.

>>>>>Proof--Pleasure and pain, and consequently the emotions compounded thereof, or derived
therefrom, are passions, or passive states (III. xi. note); now we are necessarily passive
(III. i.), in so far as we have inadequate ideas; and only in so far as we have such ideas
are we passive (III. iii.); that is, we are only necessarily passive (II. xl. note), in so
far as we conceive, or (II. xvii. and note) in so far as we are affected by an emotion, which
involves the nature of our own body, and the nature of an external body.  Wherefore the nature
of every passive state must necessarily be so explained, that the nature of the object whereby
we are affected be expressed.  Namely, the pleasure, which arises from, say, the object A,
involves the nature of that object A, and the pleasure, which arises from the object B, involves
the nature of the object B; different, inasmuch as the causes whence they arise are by nature
different.  So again the emotion of pain, which arises from one object, is by nature different
from the pain arising from another object, and, similarly, in the case of love, hatred, hope,
fear, vacillation, &c.

Thus, there are necessarily as many kinds of pleasure, pain, love, hatred, &c., as there are
kinds of objects whereby we are affected.  Now desire is each man's essence or nature, in so
far as it is conceived as determined to a particular action by any given modification of itself
(III. ix. note); therefore, according as a man is affected through external causes by this
or that kind of pleasure, pain, love, hatred, &c., in other words, according as his nature
is disposed in this or that manner, so will his desire be of one kind or another, and the nature
of one desire must necessarily differ from the nature of another desire, as widely as the emotions
differ, wherefrom each desire arose.  Thus there are as many kinds of desire, as there are
kinds of pleasure, pain, love, &c., consequently (by what has been shown) there are as many
kinds of desire, as there are kinds of objects whereby we are affected.  Q.E.D.

*****Note--Among the kinds of emotions, which, by the last proposition, must be very numerous,
the chief are "luxury," "drunkenness," "lust," "avarice," and "ambition," being merely species
of love or desire, displaying the nature of those emotions in a manner varying according to
the object, with which they are concerned.  For by luxury, drunkenness, lust, avarice, ambition,
&c., we simply mean the immoderate love of feasting, drinking, venery, riches, and fame.  Furthermore,
these emotions, in so far as we distinguish them from others merely by the objects wherewith
they are concerned, have no contraries.  For "temperance," "sobriety," and "chastity," which
we are wont to oppose to luxury, drunkenness, and lust, are not emotions or passive states,
but indicate a power of the mind which moderates the last-named emotions.  However, I cannot
here explain the remaining kinds of emotions (seeing that they are as numerous as the kinds
of objects), nor, if I could, would it be necessary.  It is sufficient for our purpose, namely,
to determine the strength of the emotions, and the mind's power over them, to have a general
definition of each emotion.  It is sufficient, I repeat, to understand the general properties
of the emotions and the mind, to enable us to determine the quality and extent of the mind's
power in moderating and checking the emotions.  Thus, though there is a great difference between
various emotions of love, hatred, or desire, for instance between love felt towards children,
and love felt towards a wife, there is no need for us to take cognizance of such differences,
or to track out further the nature and origin of the emotions.

 LVII. Any emotion of a given individual differs from the emotion
of another individual, only in so far as the essence of the one
individual differs from the essence of the other.

>>>>>Proof--This proposition is evident from Ax. i. (which see after Lemma iii. Prop. xiii.,
Part II.).  Nevertheless, we will prove it from the nature of the three primary emotions.

All emotions are attributable to desire, pleasure, or pain, as their definitions above given
show.  But desire is each man's nature or essence (III. ix. note); therefore desire in one
individual differs from desire in another individual, only in so far as the nature or essence
of the one differs from the nature or essence of the other.  Again, pleasure and pain are passive
states or passions, whereby every man's power or endeavour to persist in his being is increased
or diminished, helped or hindered (III. xi. and note).  But by the endeavour to persist in
its being, in so far as it is attributable to mind and body in conjunction, we mean appetite
and desire (III. ix. note); therefore pleasure and pain are identical with desire or appetite,
in so far as by external causes they are increased or diminished, helped or hindered, in other
words, they are every man's nature; wherefore the pleasure and pain felt by one man differ
from the pleasure and pain felt by another man, only in so far as the nature or essence of
the one man differs from the essence of the other; consequently, any emotion of one individual
only differs, &c. Q.E.D.

*****Note--Hence it follows, that the emotions of the animals which are called irrational (for
after learning the origin of mind we cannot doubt that brutes feel) only differ from man's
emotions, to the extent that brute nature differs from human nature.  Horse and man are alike
carried away by the desire of procreation; but the desire of the former is equine, the desire
of the latter is human. So also the lusts and appetites of insects, fishes, and birds must
needs very according to the several natures.  Thus, although each individual lives content
and rejoices in that nature belonging to him wherein he has his being, yet the life, wherein
each is content and rejoices, is nothing else but the idea, or soul, of the said individual,
and hence the joy of one only differs in nature from the joy of another, to the extent that
the essence of one differs from the essence of another.  Lastly, it follows from the foregoing
proposition, that there is no small difference between the joy which actuates, say, a drunkard,
and the joy possessed by a philosopher, as I just mention here by the way.  Thus far I have
treated of the emotions attributable to man, in so far as he is passive.  It remains to add
a few words on those attributable to him in so far as he is active.

LVIII. Besides pleasure and desire, which are passivities or passions, there are other emotions
derived from pleasure and desire, which are attributable to us in so far as we are active.

>>>>>Proof--When the mind conceives itself and its power of activity, it feels pleasure (III.
liii.):  now the mind necessarily contemplates itself, when it conceives a true or adequate
idea (II. xliii).  But the mind does conceive certain adequate ideas (II. xl. note ii.).  Therefore
it feels pleasure in so far as it is active (III. i.).  Q.E.D.

LIX. Among all the emotions attributable to the mind as active, there are none which cannot
be referred to pleasure or desire.

>>>>>Proof--All emotions can be referred to desire, pleasure, or pain, as their definitions,
already given, show.  Now by pain we mean that the mind's power of thinking is diminished or
checked (III. xi. and note); therefore, in so far as the mind feels pain, its power of understanding,
that is, of activity, is diminished or checked (III. i.); therefore, no painful emotions can
be attributed to the mind in virtue of its being active, but only emotions of pleasure and
desire, which (by the last Prop.) are attributable to the mind in that condition.  Q.E.D.

*****Note--All actions following from emotion, which are attributable to the mind in virtue
of its understanding, I set down to "strength of character" ("fortitudo"), which I divide into
"courage" ("animositas") and "highmindedness" ("generositas").  By "courage" I mean "the desire
whereby every man strives to preserve his own being in accordance solely with the dictates
of reason."  By "highmindedness" I mean "the desire whereby every man endeavours, solely under
the dictates of reason, to aid other men and to unite them to himself in friendship."  Those
actions, therefore, which have regard solely to the good of the agent I set down to courage,
those which aim at the good of others I set down to highmindedness.  Thus temperance, sobriety,
and presence of mind in danger, &c., are varieties of courage; courtesy, mercy, &c., are varieties
of highmindedness.

I think I have thus explained, and displayed through their primary causes the principal emotions
and vacillations of spirit, which arise from the combination of the three primary emotions,
to wit, desire, pleasure, and pain.  It is evident from what I have said, that we are in many
ways driven about by external causes, and that like waves of the sea driven by contrary winds
we toss to and fro unwitting of the issue and of our fate.  But I have said, that I have only
set forth the chief conflicting emotions, not all that might be given.  For, by proceeding
in the same way as above, we can easily show that love is united to repentance, scorn, shame,
&c.  I think everyone will agree from what has been said, that the emotions may be compounded
one with another in so many ways, and so many variations may arise therefrom, as to exceed
all possibility of computation.  However, for my purpose, it is enough to have enumerated the
most important; to reckon up the rest which I have omitted would be more curious than profitable.
It remains to remark concerning love, that it very often happens that while we are enjoying
a thing which we longed for, the body, from the act of enjoyment, acquires a new disposition,
whereby it is determined in another way, other images of things are aroused in it, and the
mind begins to conceive and desire something fresh.  For example, when we conceive something
which generally delights us with its flavour, we desire to enjoy, that is, to eat it.  But
whilst we are thus enjoying it, the stomach is filled and the body is otherwise disposed. 
If, therefore, when the body is thus otherwise disposed, the image of the food which is present
be stimulated, and consequently the endeavour or desire to eat it be stimulated also, the new
disposition of the body will feel repugnance to the desire or attempt, and consequently the
presence of the food which we formerly longed for will become odious.  This revulsion of feeling
is called "satiety" or weariness.  For the rest, I have neglected the outward modifications
of the body observable in emotions, such, for instance, as trembling, pallor, sobbing, laughter,
&c., for these are attributable to the body only, without any reference to the mind.  Lastly,
the definitions of the emotions require to be supplemented in a few points; I will therefore
repeat them, interpolating such observations as I think should here and there be added.

DEFINITIONS OF THE EMOTIONS

I. "Desire" is the actual essence of man, in so far as it is conceived, as determined to a
particular activity by some given modification of itself.

^^^^^Explanation--We have said above, in the note to Prop. ix. of this part, that desire is
appetite, with consciousness thereof; further, that appetite is the essence of man, in so far
as it is determined to act in a way tending to promote its own persistence.  But, in the same
note, I also remarked that, strictly speaking, I recognize no distinction between appetite
and desire.  For whether a man be conscious of his appetite or not, it remains one and the
same appetite.  Thus, in order to avoid the appearance of tautology, I have refrained from
explaining desire by appetite; but I have take care to define it in such a manner, as to comprehend,
under one head, all those endeavours of human nature, which we distinguish by the terms appetite,
will, desire, or impulse.  I might, indeed, have said, that desire is the essence of man, in
so far as it is conceived as determined to a particular activity; but from such a definition
(cf. II. xxiii.) it would not follow that the mind can be conscious of its desire or appetite.
Therefore, in order to imply the cause of such consciousness, it was necessary to add, "in
so far as it is determined by some given modification," &c.  For, by a modification of man's
essence, we understand every disposition of the said essence, whether such disposition be innate,
or whether it be conceived solely under the attribute of thought, or solely under the attribute
of extension, or whether, lastly, it be referred simultaneously to both these attributes. 
By the term desire, then, I here mean all man's endeavours, impulses, appetites, and volitions,
which vary according to each man's disposition, and are, therefore, not seldom opposed one
to another, according as a man is drawn in different directions, and knows not where to turn.

II. "Pleasure" is the transition of a man from a less to a greater perfection.

III. "Pain" is the transition of a man from a greater to a less perfection.

^^^^^Explanation--I say transition:  for pleasure is not perfection itself.  For, if man were
born with the perfection to which he passes, he would possess the same, without the emotion
of pleasure.  This appears more clearly from the consideration of the contrary emotion, pain.
No one can deny, that pain consists in the transition to a less perfection, and not in the
less perfection itself:  for a man cannot be pained, in so far as he partakes of perfection
of any degree. Neither can we say, that pain consists in the absence of a greater perfection.
For absence is nothing, whereas the emotion of pain is an activity; wherefore this activity
can only be the activity of transition from a greater to a less perfection--in other words,
it is an activity whereby a man's power of action is lessened or constrained (cf. III. xi.
note). I pass over the definitions of merriment, stimulation, melancholy, and grief, because
these terms are generally used in reference to the body, and are merely kinds of pleasure or pain.

IV. "Wonder" is the conception (imaginatio) of anything, wherein the mind comes to a stand,
because the particular concept in question has no connection with other concepts (cf. III.
lii. and note).

^^^^^Explanation--In the note to II. xviii. we showed the reason, why the mind, from the contemplation
of one thing, straightway falls to the contemplation of another thing, namely, because the
images of the two things are so associated and arranged, that one follows the other.  This
state of association is impossible, if the image of the thing be new; the mind will then be
at a stand in the contemplation thereof, until it is determined by other causes to think of
something else.

Thus the conception of a new object, considered in itself, is of the same nature as other conceptions;
hence, I do not include wonder among the emotions, nor do I see why I should so include it,
inasmuch as this distraction of the mind arises from no positive cause drawing away the mind
from other objects, but merely from the absence of a cause, which should determine the mind
to pass from the contemplation of one object to the contemplation of another.

I, therefore, recognize only three primitive or primary emotions (as I said in the note to
III. xi.), namely, pleasure, pain, and desire.  I have spoken of wonder simply because it is
customary to speak of certain emotions springing from the three primitive ones by different
names, when they are referred to the objects of our wonder.  I am led by the same motive to
add a definition of contempt.

V. "Contempt" is the conception of anything which touches the mind so little, that its presence
leads the mind to imagine those qualities which are not in it rather than such as are in it
(cf. III. lii. note).

The definitions of veneration and scorn I here pass over, for I am not aware that any emotions
are named after them.

VI. "Love" is pleasure, accompanied by the idea of an external cause.

^^^^^Explanation--This definition explains sufficiently clearly the essence of love; the definition
given by those authors who say that love is "the lover's wish to unite himself to the loved
object" expresses a property, but not the essence of love; and, as such authors have not sufficiently
discerned love's essence, they have been unable to acquire a true conception of its properties,
accordingly their definition is on all hands admitted to be very obscure.  It must, however,
be noted, that when I say that it is a property of love, that the lover should wish to unite
himself to the beloved object, I do not here mean by "wish" consent, or conclusion, or a free
decision of the mind (for I have shown such, in II. xlviii., to be fictitious); neither do
I mean a desire of being united to the loved object when it is absent, or of continuing in
its presence when it is at hand; for love can be conceived without either of these desires;
but by "wish" I mean the contentment, which is in the lover, on account of the presence of
the beloved object, whereby the pleasure of the lover is strengthened, or at least maintained.

VII.  "Hatred" is pain, accompanied by the idea of an external cause.

^^^^^Explanation--These observations are easily grasped after what has been said in the explanation
of the preceding definition (cf. also III. xiii. note).

VIII. "Inclination" is pleasure, accompanied by the idea of something which is accidentally
a cause of pleasure.

IX. "Aversion" is pain, accompanied by the idea of something which is accidentally the cause
of pain (cf. III. xv. note).

X. "Devotion" is love towards one whom we admire.

^^^^^Explanation--Wonder (admiratio) arises (as we have shown, III. lii.) from the novelty
of a thing.  If, therefore, it happens that the object of our wonder is often conceived by
us, we shall cease to wonder at it; thus we see, that the emotion of devotion readily degenerates
into simple love.

XI.  But since we assume that man hates that which he derides, it follows that the pleasure
in question is not without alloy (cf. III. xlvii. note).

XII. "Hope" is an inconstant pleasure, arising from the idea of something past or future, whereof
we to a certain extent doubt the issue.

XIII. III. xviii. note).

^^^^^Explanation--From these definitions it follows, that there is no hope unmingled with fear,
and no fear unmingled with hope.  For he, who depends on hope and doubts concerning the issue
of anything, is assumed to conceive something, which excludes the existence of the said thing
in the future; therefore he, to this extent, feels pain (cf. III. xix.); consequently, while
dependent on hope, he fears for the issue.  Contrariwise he, who fears, in other words doubts,
concerning the issue of something which he hates, also conceives something which excludes the
existence of the thing in question; to this extent he feels pleasure, and consequently to this
extent he hopes that it will turn out as he desires (III. xx.).

XIV.  "Confidence" is pleasure arising from the idea of something past or future, wherefrom
all cause of doubt has been removed.

XV. "Despair" is pain arising from the idea of something past or future, wherefrom all cause
of doubt has been removed.

^^^^^Explanation--Thus confidence springs from hope, and despair from fear, when all cause
for doubt as to the issue of an event has been removed:  this comes to pass, because man conceives
something past or future as present and regards it as such, or else because he conceives other
things, which exclude the existence of the causes of his doubt.  For, although we can never
be absolutely certain of the issue of any particular event (II. xxxi. Cor.), it may nevertheless
happen that we feel no doubt concerning it.  For we have shown, that to feel no doubt concerning
a thing is not the same as to be quite certain of it (II. xlix. note).  Thus it may happen
that we are affected by the same emotion of pleasure or pain concerning a thing past or future,
as concerning the conception of a thing present; this I have already shown in III. xviii.,
to which, with its note, I refer the reader.

XVI. "Joy" is pleasure accompanied by the idea of something past, which has had an issue beyond
our hope.

XVII. "Disappointment" is pain accompanied by the idea of something past, which has had an
issue contrary to our hope.

XVIII. "Pity" is pain accompanied by the idea of evil, which has befallen someone else whom
we conceive to be like ourselves (cf. III. xxii. note, and III. xxvii. note).

^^^^^Explanation--Between pity and sympathy (misericordia) there seems to be no difference,
unless perhaps that the former term is used in reference to a particular action, and the latter
in reference to a disposition.

XIX. "Approval" is love towards one who has done good to another.

XX. "Indignation" is hatred towards one who has done evil to another.

^^^^^Explanation--I am aware that these terms are employed in senses somewhat different from
those usually assigned.  But my purpose is to explain, not the meaning of words, but the nature
of things.  I therefore make use of such terms, as may convey my meaning without any violent
departure from their ordinary signification.  One statement of my method will suffice. As for
the cause of the above-named emotions see III. xxvii. Cor. i., and III. xxii. note.

XXI. "Partiality" is thinking too highly of anyone because of the love we bear him.

^^^^^Explanation--Thus partiality is an effect of love, and disparagement an effect of hatred:
so that "partiality" may also be defined as "love, in so far as it induces a man to think too
highly of a beloved object."  Contrariwise, "disparagement" may be defined as "hatred, in so
far as it induces a man to think too meanly of a hated object." Cf. III. xxvi. note.

XXIII. "Envy" is hatred, in so far as it induces a man to be pained by another's good fortune,
and to rejoice in another's evil fortune.

^^^^^Explanation--Envy is generally opposed to sympathy, which, by doing some violence to the
meaning of the word, may therefore be thus defined:

XXIV. "Sympathy" (misericordia) is love, in so far as it induces a man to feel pleasure at
another's good fortune, and pain at another's evil fortune.

^^^^^Explanation--Concerning envy see the notes to II. xxiv. and xxxii.  These emotions also
arise from pleasure or pain accompanied by the idea of something external, as cause either
in itself or accidentally.  I now pass on to other emotions, which are accompanied by the idea
of something within as a cause.

XXV. "Self-approval" is pleasure arising from a man's contemplation of himself and his own
power of action.

XXVI. "Humility" is pain arising from a man's contemplation of his own weakness of body or mind.

^^^^^Explanation--Self-complacency is opposed to humility, in so far as we thereby mean pleasure
arising from a contemplation of our own power of action; but, in so far as we mean thereby
pleasure accompanied by the idea of any action which we believe we have performed by the free
decision of our mind, it is opposed to repentance, which we may thus define:

XXVII. "Repentance" is pain accompanied by the idea of some action, which we believe we have
performed by the free decision of our mind.

^^^^^Explanation--The causes of these emotions we have set forth in III. li. note, and in III.
liii., liv., lv. and note. Concerning the free decision of the mind see II. xxxv. note. This
is perhaps the place to call attention to the fact, that it is nothing wonderful that all those
actions, which are commonly called "wrong," are followed by pain, and all those, which are
called "right," are followed by pleasure.  We can easily gather from what has been said, that
this depends in great measure on education.  Parents, by reprobating the former class of actions,
and by frequently chiding their children because of them, and also by persuading to and praising
the latter class, have brought it about, that the former should be associated with pain and
the latter with pleasure.  This is confirmed by experience.  For custom and religion are not
the same among all men, but that which some consider sacred others consider profane, and what
some consider honourable others consider disgraceful.  According as each man has been educated,
he feels repentance for a given action or glories therein.

XXVIII. "Pride" is thinking too highly of one's self from self-love.

