Well, the congregation got into Church--three families by the step ladder to one gallery, and
the men into another, where the front row squeezed their knees through the rails and leant
on the top bar, the rest of the world in the pews, and the children on benches.  The clerk
was in his desk behind the reading desk--good George Oxford, with his calm, good, gentle face,
and tall figure, sadly lame from rheumatism caught when working in the brick kilns.  His voice
was always heard above the others in the responses, but our congregation never had dropped
the habit of responding, and, though there was no chanting, the Amens and some of the Versicles
used to have a grand full musical sound peculiar to that Church.  People also all turned to
the east for the Creed, few knelt, but some of the elder men stood during the prayers, and,
though there was far too much sitting down during the singing, every body got up and stood,
if "Hallelujah" occurred, as it often did in anthems.

There were eight or ten singers, and they had a bassoon, a flute, and a clarionet.  They used
to sing before the Communion Service in the morning, after the Second Lesson in the afternoon,
and before each Sermon.  Master Oxford had a good voice, and was wanted in the choir, so as
soon as the General Thanksgiving began, he started off from his seat, and might be heard going
the length of the nave, climbing the stairs, and crossing the outer gallery.  Sometimes he
took his long stick with him, and gave a good stripe across the straw bonnet of any particularly
naughty child.  In the gallery he proclaimed--"Let us sing to the praise and glory of God in
the Psalm," then giving the first line.

The Psalms were always from the New or Old Versions.  A slate with the number in chalk was
also hung out--23 O.V., 112 N.V., as the case might be.  About four verses of each were sung,
the last lines over and over again, some very oddly divided.  For instance--

   "Shall fix the place where we must dwell,
   The pride of Jacob, His delight,"

was sung thus:--

   "The pride of Ja--the pride of Ja--the pride of Ja--" (at least three
   times before the line was ended).

But rough as these were, some of these Psalms were very dear to us all, specially the old twenty-third:--

   "My Shepherd is the living Lord,
      Nothing, therefore, I need,
   In pastures fair, by pleasant streams
      He setteth me to feed.

   He shall convert and glad my soul,
      And bring my soul in frame
   To walk in paths of holiness,
      For His most Holy Name.

   I pass the gloomy vale of death,
      From fear and danger free;
   For there His guiding rod and staff
      Defend and comfort me."

Another much-loved one was the 121st:--

   "To Zion's hill I lift my eyes,
      From thence expecting aid,
   From Zion's hill and Zion's God,
      Who heaven and earth hath made.

   Then thou, my soul, in safety rest,
      Thy Guardian will not sleep,
   His watchful care, that Israel guards,
      Shall Israel's monarch keep.

Will the sight of these lines bring back to any one the old tune, the old sounds, the old sights
of the whitewashed Church, and old John Green in the gallery, singing with his bass voice,
with all his might, his eyebrows moving as he sung?  And then the Commandments and Ante-Communion
read not from the Altar, but the desk; the surplice taken off in the desk instead of the Vestry;
Master Oxford's announcements shouted out from his place, generally after the Second Lesson--"I
hereby give notice that a Vestry Meeting will be held on Tuesday, at twelve o'clock, to make
a new rate for the relief of the poo-oor."  "I hereby give notice that Evening Service will
be at half-past two as long as the winter days are short." Well, we should think these things
odd now, and we have much to be thankful for in the changes; but there were holy and faithful
ones then, and Master Oxford was one of them.

In the days here described, from 1820 to 1827, few small villages had anything but dame schools,
and Otterbourne children, such as had any schooling at all, were sent to Mrs. Yates's school
on the hill, where she sat, the very picture of the old-fashioned mistress, in her black silk
bonnet, with the children on benches before her, and her rod at hand.

Several families, however, did not send the children to school at all, and there were many
who could not read, many more who could not write, and there was very little religious teaching,
except that in the Sunday afternoons in Lent, the catechism was said in Church by the best
instructed children, but without any explanation.

About the year 1819 Mrs. Bargus and her daughter came to live at Otterbourne, and in 1822 Miss
Bargus married William Crawley Yonge, who had retired from the army, after serving in the Peninsula
and at Waterloo.  Both Mr. and Mrs. Yonge had clergymen for their fathers, and were used to
think much of the welfare of their neighbours.  It was not, however, till 1823 that Mrs. Yonge
saw her way to beginning a little Sunday School for girls, teaching it all by herself, in a
room by what is now Mr. J. Misselbrook's house.  While there was still only one Service on
Sundays, she kept the school on the vacant half of the day, reading the Psalms and Lessons
to the children, who were mostly biggish girls. This was when Archdeacon Heathcote was the
Vicar of Hursley and Otterbourne, and the Rev. Robert Shuckburgh was his Curate.  Archdeacon
and Mrs. Heathcote, who were most kind and liberal, gave every help and assisted in setting
up the Clothing Club.

Mrs. Yonge's first list of Easter prizes contains twenty names of girls, and the years that
have passed have left but few of them here.  A large Bible bound in plain brown leather was
the highest prize; Prayer Books, equally unornamented, New Testaments, and Psalters, being
books containing only the Psalms and Matins and Evensong, were also given, and were then, perhaps,
more highly valued than the dainty little coloured books every one now likes to have for Sunday.
Then there were frocks, coarse straw bonnets, and sometimes pocket handkerchiefs, for these
were not by any means such universal possessions as could be wished, and only came out on Sunday.
As to gloves, silk handkerchiefs, parasols, muffs, or even umbrellas, the children thought
them as much out of their reach as a set of pearls or diamonds, but what was worse, their outer
clothing was very insufficent, seldom more than a thin cotton frock and tippet, and the grey
duffle cloaks, which were thought a great possession, were both slight and scanty.

About 1826, Mrs. Yonge was looking at the bit of waste land that had once served as a roadway
to the field at the back of Otterbourne House, when she said, "How I wish I had money enough
to build a school here."  "Well," said Mrs. Bargus, "You shall have what I can give."  The
amount was small, but with it Mr. Yonge contrived to put up one room with two new small ones
at the back, built of mud rough cast, and with a brick floor, except for the little bedroom
being raised a step, and boarded.

The schoolroom was intended to hold all the children who did not go to Mrs. Yates, both boys
and girls, and it was sufficient, for, in the first place, nobody from Fryern-hill came.  Mrs.
Green had a separate little school there.  Then the age for going to school was supposed to
be six. If anyone sent a child younger, the fee was threepence instead of a penny.  The fee
for learning writing and arithmetic was threepence, for there was a general opinion that they
were of little real use, and that writing letters would waste time (as it sometimes certainly
does). Besides this, the eldest daughter of a family was always minding the baby, and never
went to school; and boys were put to do what their mothers called "keeping a few birds" when
very small indeed, while other families were too rough to care about education so that the
numbers were seldom over thirty.

There were no such people as trained mistresses then.  The National Society had a school for
masters, but they were expensive and could only be employed in large towns; so all that could
be looked for was a kind, motherly, good person who could read and do needlework well.  And
the first mistress was Mrs. Creswick, a pleasant-looking person with a pale face and dark eyes,
who had been a servant at Archdeacon Heathcote's, and had since had great troubles.  She did
teach the Catechism, reading, and work when the children were tolerably good and obeyed her,
but boys were a great deal too much for her, and she had frail health, and such a bad leg that
she never could walk down the lane to the old Church.  So, after Sunday School, the children
used to straggle down to Church without anyone to look after them, and sit on the benches in
the aisle and do pretty much what they pleased, except when admonished by Master Oxford's stick.

Mr. Shuckburgh had by this time come to reside in the parish, in the house which is now the
post-office, and there was at last a double Service on the Sunday.

The next thing was to consider what was to be done about the boys, who could not be made to
mind Mrs. Creswick.  A row of the biggest sat at the back of the school, with their heels to
the wall, and by constant kicking had almost knocked a hole through the mud wall; so the Vicar,
who was now the Archdeacon's son, the Rev. Gilbert Wall Heathcote, gave permission for the
putting up another mud and rough cast school house near the old Church, for the boys, in an
empty part of the Churchyard to the north- east, where no one had ever been buried.

However, there Master Oxford was installed as schoolmaster, coming all the way down from his
house on the hill (a pretty-timbered cottage, now pulled down).  He and his boys had a long
way to walk to their school, but he taught them all he knew and set them a good example.  The
boys were all supposed to go to him at six years old, and most were proud of the promotion.
One little fellow was known to go to bed an hour or two earlier that he might be six years
old the sooner!  But some dreaded the good order enforced by the stick.  There was one boy
in particular, who had outgrown the girls' school, and was very troublesome there.  He would
not go to the boys', and his mother would not make him, saying she feared he would fall into
the water.  "Well," said Mrs. Bargus, who was a most bright, kindly old lady of eighty, "I'll
make him go."  So she took a large piece of yellow glazed calico intended for furniture lining,
walked up to school, and held it up to the little boy.  She said she heard that he would only
go to the girls' school, and, since everybody went there in petticoats, she had brought some
stuff to make him a petticoat too!  The young man got up and walked straight off to the boys'
school.

Here are some verses, written by Mrs. Yonge in 1838, on one of the sights that met her eye
in the old Churchyard:--

   While on the ear the solemn note
   Of prayer and praises heavenward float,
   A butterfly with brilliant wings
   A lesson full of meaning brings,
            A sermon to the eye.

   There on an infant's grave it stands,
   For it hath burst the shroud's dull bands,
   Its vile worm's body there is left,
   Of gross earth's habits now bereft
            It soars into the sky.

   Thus when the grave her dead shall give
   The little form below shall live,
   Clothed in a robe of dazzling white
   Shall spring aloft on wings of light,
            To realms above shall fly!

