If we should ask our garrulous guide why this treasure had not been dug up by the people of
the place, he would probably shake his head and declare that personally he knew nothing about
it, but that it was generally believed that it was there, and he had heard that there had been
people who had tried to find it, but if they did find any they never said anything about it,
and it was his opinion that if Captain Kidd ever put any gold or silver or precious stones
under the ground on that part of the coast these treasures were all there yet.

Further questioning would probably develop the fact that there was a certain superstition which
prevented a great many people from interfering with the possible deposits which Captain Kidd
had made in their neighborhood, and although few persons would be able to define exactly the
foundation of the superstition, it was generally supposed that most of the pirates' treasures
were guarded by pirate ghosts. In that case, of course, timid individuals would be deterred
from going out by themselves at night,--for that was the proper time to dig for buried treasure,--and
as it would not have been easy to get together a number of men each brave enough to give the
others courage, many of the spots reputed to be the repositories of buried treasure have never
been disturbed.

In spite of the fear of ghosts, in spite of the want of accurate knowledge in regard to favored
localities, in spite of hardships, previous disappointments, or expected ridicule, a great
many extensive excavations have been made in the sands or the soil along the coasts of our
northern states, and even in quiet woods lying miles from the sea, to which it would have been
necessary for the pirates to carry their goods in wagons, people have dug and hoped and have
gone away sadly to attend to more sensible business, and far up some of our rivers--where a
pirate vessel never floated--people have dug with the same hopeful anxiety, and have stopped
digging in the same condition of dejected disappointment.

Sometimes these enterprises were conducted on a scale which reminds us of the operations on
the gold coast of California. Companies were organized, stock was issued and subscribed for,
and the excavations were conducted under the direction of skilful treasure-seeking engineers.

It is said that not long ago a company was organized in Nova Scotia for the purpose of seeking
for Captain Kidd's treasures in a place which it is highly probable Captain Kidd never saw.
A great excavation having been made, the water from the sea came in and filled it up, but the
work was stopped only long enough to procure steam pumps with which the big hole could be drained.
At last accounts the treasures had not been reached, and this incident is mentioned only to
show how this belief in buried treasures continues even to the present day.

There is a legend which differs somewhat from the ordinary run of these stories, and it is
told about a little island on the coast of Cape Cod, which is called Hannah Screecher's Island,
and this is the way its name came to it.

Captain Kidd while sailing along the coast, looking for a suitable place to bury some treasure,
found this island adapted to his purpose, and landed there with his savage crew, and his bags
and boxes, and his gold and precious stones. It was said to be the habit of these pirates,
whenever they made a deposit on the coast, to make the hole big enough not only to hold the
treasure they wished to deposit there, but the body of one of the crew,--who was buried with
the valuables in order that his spirit might act as a day and night watchman to frighten away
people who might happen to be digging in that particular spot.

The story relates that somewhere on the coast Captain Kidd had captured a young lady named
Hannah, and not knowing what to do with her, and desiring not to commit an unnecessary extravagance
by disposing of a useful sailor, he determined to kill Hannah, and bury her with the treasure,
in order that she might keep away intruders until he came for it.

It was very natural that when Hannah was brought on shore and found out what was going to be
done with her, she should screech in a most dreadful manner, and although the pirates soon
silenced her and covered her up, they did not succeed in silencing her spirit, and ever since
that time,--according to the stories told by some of the older inhabitants of Cape Cod,--there
may be heard in the early dusk of the evening the screeches of Hannah coming across the water
from her little island to the mainland.

Mr. James Herbert Morse has written a ballad founded upon this peculiar incident, and with
the permission of the author we give it here:--

          THE LADY HANNAH.

    "Now take my hand," quoth Captain Kidd,
      "The air is blithe, I scent the meads."
    He led her up the starlit sands,
      Out of the rustling reeds.

    The great white owl then beat his breast,
      Athwart the cedars whirred and flew;
    "There's death in our handsome captain's eye"
      Murmured the pirate's crew.

    And long they lay upon their oars
      And cursed the silence and the chill;
    They cursed the wail of the rising wind,
      For no man dared be still.

    Of ribald songs they sang a score
      To stifle the midnight sobs and sighs,
    They told wild tales of the Indian Main,
      To drown the far-off cries.

    But when they ceased, and Captain Kidd
      Came down the sands of Dead Neck Isle,
    "My lady wearies," he grimly said,
      "And she would rest awhile.

    "I've made her a bed--'tis here, 'tis there,
      And she shall wake, be it soon or long,
    Where grass is green and wild birds sing
      And the wind makes undersong.

    "Be quick, my men, and give a hand,
      She loved soft furs and silken stuff,
    Jewels of gold and silver bars,
      And she shall have enough.

    "With silver bars and golden ore,
      So fine a lady she shall be,
    A many suitor shall seek her long,
      As they sought Penelope.

    "And if a lover would win her hand,
      No lips e'er kissed a hand so white,
    And if a lover would hear her sing,
      She sings at owlet light.

    "But if a lover would win her gold,
      And his hands be strong to lift the lid,
    'Tis here, 'tis there, 'tis everywhere--
      In the chest," quoth Captain Kidd.

    They lifted long, they lifted well,
      Ingots of gold, and silver bars,
      And silken plunder from wild, wild wars,
    But where they laid them, no man can tell,
      Though known to a thousand stars.

But the ordinary Kidd stories are very much the same, and depend a good deal upon the character
of the coast and upon the imagination of the people who live in that region. We will give one
of them as a sample, and from this a number of very good pirate stories could be manufactured
by ingenious persons.

It was a fine summer night late in the seventeenth century. A young man named Abner Stout,
in company with his wife Mary, went out for a walk upon the beach. They lived in a little village
near the coast of New Jersey. Abner was a good carpenter, but a poor man; but he and his wife
were very happy with each other, and as they walked toward the sea in the light of the full
moon, no young lovers could have been more gay.

When they reached a little bluff covered with low shrubbery, which was the first spot from
which they could have a full view of the ocean, Abner suddenly stopped, and pointed out to
Mary an unusual sight. There, as plainly in view as if it had been broad daylight, was a vessel
lying at the entrance of the little bay. The sails were furled, and it was apparently anchored.

For a minute Abner gazed in utter amazement at the sight of this vessel, for no ships, large
or small, came to this little lonely bay. There was a harbor two or three miles farther up
the coast to which all trading craft repaired. What could the strange ship want here?

This unusual visitor to the little bay was a very low and very long, black schooner, with tall
masts which raked forward, and with something which looked very much like a black flag fluttering
in its rigging. Now the truth struck into the soul of Abner. "Hide yourself, Mary," he whispered.
"It is a pirate ship!" And almost at the same instant the young man and his wife laid themselves
flat on the ground among the bushes, but they were very careful, each of them, to take a position
which would allow them to peep out through the twigs and leaves upon the scene before them.

There seemed to be a good deal of commotion on board the black schooner, and very soon a large
boat pushed off from her side, and the men in it began rowing rapidly toward the shore, apparently
making for a spot on the beach, not far from the bluff on which Abner and Mary were concealed.
"Let us get up and run," whispered Mary, trembling from head to toe. "They are pirates, and
they are coming here!"

"Lie still! Lie still!" said Abner. "If we get up and leave these bushes, we shall be seen,
and then they will be after us! Lie still, and do not move a finger!"

The trembling Mary obeyed her husband, and they both lay quite still, scarcely breathing, with
eyes wide open. The boat rapidly approached the shore. Abner counted ten men rowing and one
man sitting in the stern. The boat seemed to be heavily loaded, and the oarsmen rowed hard.

Now the boat was run through the surf to the beach, and its eleven occupants jumped out. There
was no mistaking their character. They were true pirates. They had great cutlasses and pistols,
and one of them was very tall and broad shouldered, and wore an old-fashioned cocked hat.

"That's Captain Kidd," whispered Abner to his wife, and she pressed his hand to let him know
that she thought he must be right.

Now the men came up high upon the beach, and began looking about here and there as if they
were searching for something. Mary was filled with horror for fear they should come to that
bluff to search, but Abner knew there was no danger of that. They had probably come to those
shores to bury treasure, as if they were great sea-turtles coming up upon the beach to lay
their eggs, and they were now looking for some good spot where they might dig.

Presently the tall man gave some orders in a low voice, and then his men left him to himself,
and went back to the boat. There was a great pine tree standing back a considerable distance
from the water, battered and racked by storms, but still a tough old tree. Toward this the
pirate captain stalked, and standing close to it, with his back against it, he looked up into
the sky. It was plain that he was looking for a star. There were very few of these luminaries
to be seen in the heavens, for the moon was so bright. But as Abner looked in the direction
in which the pirate captain gazed, he saw a star still bright in spite of the moonlight.

With his eyes fixed upon this star, the pirate captain now stepped forward, making long strides.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Then he stopped, plunged his right heel in the soft
ground, and turned squarely about to the left, so that his broad back was now parallel with
a line drawn from the pine tree to the star.

At right angles to this line the pirate now stepped forward, making as before seven long paces.
Then he stopped, dug his heel into the ground, and beckoned to his men. Up they came running,
carrying picks and spades, and with great alacrity they began to dig at the place where the
captain had marked with his heel.

It was plain that these pirates were used to making excavations, for it was not long before
the hole was so deep that those within it could not be seen. Then the captain gave an order
to cease digging, and he and all the pirates went back to the boat.

For about half an hour,--though Mary thought it was a longer time than that,--those pirates
worked very hard carrying great boxes and bags from the boat to the excavation. When everything
had been brought up, two of the pirates went down into the hole, and the others handed to them
the various packages. Skilfully and quickly they worked, doubtless storing their goods with
great care, until nearly everything which had been brought from the boat had been placed in
the deep hole. Some rolls of goods were left upon the ground which Mary thought were carpets,
but which Abner believed to be rich Persian rugs, or something of that kind.

Now the captain stepped aside, and picking up from the sand some little sticks and reeds, he
selected ten of them, and with these in one hand, and with their ends protruding a short distance
above his closed fingers, he rejoined his men. They gathered before him, and he held out toward
them the hand which contained the little sticks.

"They're drawing lots!" gasped Abner, and Mary trembled more than she had done yet.

Now the lots were all drawn, and one man, apparently a young pirate, stepped out from among
his fellows. His head was bowed, and his arms were folded across his manly chest. The captain
spoke a few words, and the young pirate advanced alone to the side of the deep hole.

Mary now shut her eyes tight, tight; but Abner's were wide open. There was a sudden gleam of
cutlasses in the air; there was one short, plaintive groan, and the body of the young pirate
fell into the hole. Instantly all the other goods, furs, rugs, or whatever they were, were
tumbled in upon him. Then the men began to shovel in the earth and sand, and in an incredibly
short time the hole was filled up even with the ground about it.

Of course all the earth and sand which had been taken out of the hole could not now be put
back into it. But these experienced treasure-hiders knew exactly what to do with it. A spadeful
at a time, the soil which could not be replaced was carried to the sea, and thrown out into
the water, and when the whole place had been carefully smoothed over, the pirates gathered
sticks and stones, and little bushes, and great masses of wild cranberry vines, and scattered
them about over the place so that it soon looked exactly like the rest of the beach about it.

Then the tall captain gave another low command, the pirates returned to their boat, it was
pushed off, and rapidly rowed back to the schooner. Up came the anchor, up went the dark sails.
The low, black schooner was put about, and very soon she was disappearing over the darkening
waters, her black flag fluttering fiercely high above her.

"Now, let us run," whispered poor Mary, who, although she had not seen everything, imagined
a great deal; for as the pirates were getting into their boat she had opened her eyes and had
counted them, and there were only nine beside the tall captain.

Abner thought that her advice was very good, and starting up out of the brushwood they hastened
home as fast as their legs would carry them.

The next day Abner seemed to be a changed man. He had work to do, but he neglected it. Never
had such a thing happened before! For hours he sat in front of the house, looking up into the
sky, counting one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Then he would twist himself around on
the little bench, and count seven more.

This worthy couple lived in a small house which had a large cellar, and during the afternoon
of that day Abner busied himself in clearing out this cellar, and taking out of it everything
which it had contained. His wife asked no questions. In her soul she knew what Abner was thinking
about.

Supper was over, and most of the people in the village were thinking of going to bed, when
Abner said to Mary, "Let us each take a spade, and I will carry a pail, and we will go out
upon the beach for a walk. If any one should see us, they would think that we were going to
dig for clams."

"Oh, no, dear Abner!" cried Mary. "We must not dig there! Think of that young pirate. Almost
the first thing we would come to would be him!"

"I have thought of that," said Abner; "but do you not believe that the most Christian act that
you and I could do would be to take him out and place him in a proper grave near by?"

"Oh, no!" exclaimed Mary, "do not say such a thing as that! Think of his ghost! They killed
him and put him there, that his ghost might guard their treasure. You know, Abner, as well
as I do, that this is their dreadful fashion!"

"I know all about that," said Abner, "and that is the reason I wish to go to-night. I do not
believe there has yet been time enough for his ghost to form. But let us take him out now,
dear Mary, and lay him reverently away,--and then!" He looked at her with flashing eyes.

"But, Abner," said she, "do you think we have the right?"

"Of course we have," said he. "Those treasures do not belong to the pirates. If we take them
they are treasure-trove, and legally ours. And think, dear Mary, how poor we are to-night,
and how rich we may be to-morrow! Come, get the pail. We must be off."

Running nearly all the way,--for they were in such a hurry they could not walk,--Abner and
Mary soon reached the bluff, and hastily scrambling down to the beach below, they stood upon
the dreadful spot where Captain Kidd and his pirates had stood the night before. There was
the old battered pine tree, reaching out two of its bare arms encouragingly toward them.

Without loss of time Abner walked up to the tree, put his back to it, and then looked up into
the sky. Now he called Mary to him. "Which star do you think he looked at, good wife?" said
he. "There is a bright one low down, and then there is another one a little higher up, and
farther to the right, but it is fainter."

"It would be the bright one, I think," said Mary. And then Abner, his eyes fixed upon the bright
star, commenced to stride. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Turning squarely around
to the left he again made seven paces. And now he beckoned vigorously to Mary to come and dig.

For about ten minutes they dug, and then they laid bare a great mass of rock. "This isn't the
place," cried Abner. "I must begin again. I did not look at the right star. I will take the
other one."

For the greater part of that night Abner and Mary remained upon the beach. Abner would put
his back against the tree, fix his eyes upon another star, stride forward seven paces, and
then seven to the left, and he would come upon a little scrubby pine tree. Of course that was
not the place.

The moon soon began to set, and more stars came out, so that Abner had a greater choice. Again
and again he made his measurements, and every time that he came to the end of his second seven
paces, he found that it would have been impossible for the pirates to make their excavation there.

There was clearly something wrong. Abner thought that he had not selected the right star, and
Mary thought that his legs were not long enough. "That pirate captain," quoth she, "had a long
and manly stride. Seven of his paces would go a far greater distance than seven of yours, Abner."

Abner made his paces a little longer; but although he and his wife kept up their work until
they could see the early dawn, they found no spot where it would be worth while to dig, and
so mournfully they returned to their home and their empty cellar.

As long as the moonlight lasted, Abner and Mary went to the little beach at the head of the
bay, and made their measurements and their searches but although they sometimes dug a little
here and there, they always found that they had not struck the place where the pirate's treasure
had been buried.

When at last they gave up their search, and concluded to put their household goods back into
their cellar, they told the tale to some of the neighbors, and other people went out and dug,
not only at the place which had been designated, but miles up and down the coast, and then
the story was told and retold, and so it has lasted until the present day.

What has been said about the legendary Captain Kidd will give a very good idea of the estimation
in which this romantic being has been, and still is, held in various parts of the country,
and, of all the legitimate legends about him, there is not one which recounts his piratical
deeds upon our coast. The reason for this will be seen when we consider, in the next chapter,
the life and character of the real Captain Kidd.

Chapter XXXII

The Real Captain Kidd

William Kidd, or Robert Kidd, as he is sometimes called, was a sailor in the merchant service
who had a wife and family in New York. He was a very respectable man and had a good reputation
as a seaman, and about 1690, when there was war between England and France, Kidd was given
the command of a privateer, and having had two or three engagements with French vessels he
showed himself to be a brave fighter and a prudent commander.

Some years later he sailed to England, and, while there, he received an appointment of a peculiar
character. It was at the time when the King of England was doing his best to put down the pirates
of the American coast, and Sir George Bellomont, the recently appointed Governor of New York,
recommended Captain Kidd as a very suitable man to command a ship to be sent out to suppress
piracy. When Kidd agreed to take the position of chief of marine police, he was not employed
by the Crown, but by a small company of gentlemen of capital, who formed themselves into a
sort of trust company, or society for the prevention of cruelty to merchantmen, and the object
of their association was not only to put down pirates, but to put some money in their own pockets
as well.

Kidd was furnished with two commissions, one appointing him a privateer with authority to capture
French vessels, and the other empowering him to seize and destroy all pirate ships. Kidd was
ordered in his mission to keep a strict account of all booty captured, in order that it might
be fairly divided among those who were stockholders in the enterprise, one-tenth of the total
proceeds being reserved for the King.

Kidd sailed from England in the Adventure, a large ship with thirty guns and eighty men, and
on his way to America he captured a French ship which he carried to New York. Here he arranged
to make his crew a great deal larger than had been thought necessary in England, and, by offering
a fair share of the property he might confiscate on piratical or French ships, he induced a
great many able seamen to enter his service, and when the Adventure left New York she carried
a crew of one hundred and fifty-five men.

With a fine ship and a strong crew, Kidd now sailed out of the harbor with the ostensible purpose
of putting down piracy in American waters, but the methods of this legally appointed marine
policeman were very peculiar, and, instead of cruising up and down our coast, he gayly sailed
away to the island of Madeira, and then around the Cape of Good Hope to Madagascar and the
Red Sea, thus getting himself as far out of his regular beat as any New York constable would
have been had he undertaken to patrol the dominions of the Khan of Tartary.

By the time Captain Kidd reached that part of the world he had been at sea for nearly a year
without putting down any pirates or capturing any French ships. In fact, he had made no money
whatever for himself or the stockholders of the company which had sent him out. His men, of
course, must have been very much surprised at this unusual neglect of his own and his employers'
interests, but when he reached the Red Sea, he boldly informed them that he had made a change
in his business, and had decided that he would be no longer a suppressor of piracy, but would
become a pirate himself; and, instead of taking prizes of French ships only,--which he was
legally empowered to do,--he would try to capture any valuable ship he could find on the seas,
no matter to what nation it belonged. He then went on to state that his present purpose in
coming into those oriental waters was to capture the rich fleet from Mocha which was due in
the lower part of the Red Sea about that time.

The crew of the Adventure, who must have been tired of having very little to do and making
no money, expressed their entire approbation of their captain's change of purpose, and readily
agreed to become pirates.

Kidd waited a good while for the Mocha fleet, but it did not arrive, and then he made his first
venture in actual piracy. He overhauled a Moorish vessel which was commanded by an English
captain, and as England was not at war with Morocco, and as the nationality of the ship's commander
should have protected him, Kidd thus boldly broke the marine laws which governed the civilized
world and stamped himself an out-and-out pirate. After the exercise of considerable cruelty
he extorted from his first prize a small amount of money; and although he and his men did not
gain very much booty, they had whetted their appetites for more, and Kidd cruised savagely
over the eastern seas in search of other spoils.

After a time the Adventure fell in with a fine English ship, called the Royal Captain, and
although she was probably laden with a rich cargo, Kidd did not attack her. His piratical character
was not yet sufficiently formed to give him the disloyal audacity which would enable him with
his English ship and his English crew, to fall upon another English ship manned by another
English crew. In time his heart might be hardened, but he felt that he could not begin with
this sort of thing just yet. So the Adventure saluted the Royal Captain with ceremonious politeness,
and each vessel passed quietly on its way. But this conscientious consideration did not suit
Kidd's crew. They had already had a taste of booty, and they were hungry for more, and when
the fine English vessel, of which they might so easily have made a prize, was allowed to escape
them, they were loud in their complaints and grumblings.

One of the men, a gunner, named William Moore, became actually impertinent upon the subject,
and he and Captain Kidd had a violent quarrel, in the course of which the captain picked up
a heavy iron-bound bucket and struck the dissatisfied gunner on the head with it. The blow
was such a powerful one that the man's skull was broken, and he died the next day.

Captain Kidd's conscience seems to have been a good deal in his way; for although he had been
sailing about in various eastern waters, taking prizes wherever he could, he was anxious that
reports of his misdeeds should not get home before him. Having captured a fine vessel bound
westward, he took from her all the booty he could, and then proceeded to arrange matters so
that the capture of this ship should appear to be a legal transaction. The ship was manned
by Moors and commanded by a Dutchman, and of course Kidd had no right to touch it, but the
sharp-witted and business-like pirate selected one of the passengers and made him sign a paper
declaring that he was a Frenchman, and that he commanded the ship. When this statement had
been sworn to before witnesses, Kidd put the document in his pocket so that if he were called
upon to explain the transaction he might be able to show that he had good reason to suppose
that he had captured a French ship, which, of course, was all right and proper.

Kidd now ravaged the East India waters with great success and profit, and at last he fell in
with a very fine ship from Armenia, called the Quedagh Merchant, commanded by an Englishman.
Kidd's conscience had been growing harder and harder every day, and he did not now hesitate
to attack any vessel. The great merchantman was captured, and proved to be one of the most
valuable prizes ever taken by a pirate, for Kidd's own share of the spoils amounted to more
than sixty thousand dollars. This was such a grand haul that Kidd lost no time in taking his
prize to some place where he might safely dispose of her cargo, and get rid of her passengers.
Accordingly he sailed for Madagascar. While he was there he fell in with the first pirate vessel
he had met since he had started out to put down piracy. This was a ship commanded by an English
pirate named Culliford, and here would have been a chance for Captain Kidd to show that, although
he might transgress the law himself, he would be true to his engagement not to allow other
people to do so; but he had given up putting down piracy, and instead of apprehending Culliford
he went into partnership with him, and the two agreed to go pirating together.

This partnership, however, did not continue long, for Captain Kidd began to believe that it
was time for him to return to his native country and make a report of his proceedings to his
employers. Having confined his piratical proceedings to distant parts of the world, he hoped
that he would be able to make Sir George Bellomont and the other stockholders suppose that
his booty was all legitimately taken from French vessels cruising in the east, and when the
proper division should be made he would be able to quietly enjoy his portion of the treasure
he had gained.

He did not go back in the Adventure, which was probably not large enough to carry all the booty
he had amassed, but putting everything on board his latest prize, the Quedagh Merchant, he
burned his old ship and sailed homeward.

When he reached the West Indies, however, our wary sea-robber was very much surprised to find
that accounts of his evil deeds had reached America, and that the colonial authorities had
been so much incensed by the news that the man who had been sent out to suppress piracy had
become himself a pirate, that they had circulated notices throughout the different colonies,
urging the arrest of Kidd if he should come into any American port. This was disheartening
intelligence for the treasure-laden Captain Kidd, but he did not despair; he knew that the
love of money was often as strong in the minds of human beings as the love of justice. Sir
George Bellomont, who was now in New York, was one of the principal stockholders in the enterprise,
and Kidd hoped that the rich share of the results of his industry which would come to the Governor
might cause unpleasant reports to be disregarded. In this case he might yet return to his wife
and family with a neat little fortune, and without danger of being called upon to explain his
exceptional performances in the eastern seas.

Of course Kidd was not so foolish and rash as to sail into New York harbor on board the Quedagh
Merchant, so he bought a small sloop and put the most valuable portion of his goods on board
her, leaving his larger vessel, which also contained a great quantity of merchandise, in the
charge of one of his confederates, and in the little sloop he cautiously approached the coast
of New Jersey. His great desire was to find out what sort of a reception he might expect, so
he entered Delaware Bay, and when he stopped at a little seaport in order to take in some supplies,
he discovered that there was but small chance of his visiting his home and his family, and
of making a report to his superior in the character of a deserving mariner who had returned
after a successful voyage. Some people in the village recognized him, and the report soon spread
to New York that the pirate Kidd was lurking about the coast. A sloop of war was sent out to
capture his vessel, and finding that it was impossible to remain in the vicinity where he had
been discovered, Kidd sailed northward and entered Long Island Sound.

Here the shrewd and anxious pirate began to act the part of the watch dog who has been killing
sheep. In every way he endeavored to assume the appearance of innocence and to conceal every
sign of misbehavior. He wrote to Sir George Bellomont that he should have called upon him in
order to report his proceedings and hand over his profits, were it not for the wicked and malicious
reports which had been circulated about him.

It was during this period of suspense, when the returned pirate did not know what was likely
to happen, that it is supposed, by the believers in the hidden treasures of Kidd, that he buried
his coin and bullion and his jewels, some in one place and some in another, so that if he were
captured his riches would not be taken with him. Among the wild stories which were believed
at that time, and for long years after, was one to the effect that Captain Kidd's ship was
chased up the Hudson River by a man-of-war, and that the pirates, finding they could not get
away, sank their ship and fled to the shore with all the gold and silver they could carry,
which they afterwards buried at the foot of Dunderbergh Mountain. A great deal of rocky soil
has been turned over at different times in search of these treasures, but no discoveries of
hidden coin have yet been reported. The fact is, however, that during this time of anxious
waiting Kidd never sailed west of Oyster Bay in Long Island. He was afraid to approach New
York, although he had frequent communication with that city, and was joined by his wife and family.

About this time occurred an incident which has given rise to all the stories regarding the
buried treasure of Captain Kidd. The disturbed and anxious pirate concluded that it was a dangerous
thing to keep so much valuable treasure on board his vessel which might at any time be overhauled
by the authorities, and he therefore landed at Gardiner's Island on the Long Island coast,
and obtained permission from the proprietor to bury some of his superfluous stores upon his
estate. This was a straightforward transaction. Mr. Gardiner knew all about the burial of the
treasure, and when it was afterwards proved that Kidd was really a pirate the hidden booty
was all given up to the government.

This appears to be the only case in which it was positively known that Kidd buried treasure
on our coast, and it has given rise to all the stories of the kind which have ever been told.

For some weeks Kidd's sloop remained in Long Island Sound, and then he took courage and went
to Boston to see some influential people there. He was allowed to go freely about the city
for a week, and then he was arrested.

The rest of Kidd's story is soon told; he was sent to England for trial, and there he was condemned
to death, not only for the piracies he had committed, but also for the murder of William Moore.
He was executed, and his body was hung in chains on the banks of the Thames, where for years
it dangled in the wind, a warning to all evil-minded sailors.

About the time of Kidd's trial and execution a ballad was written which had a wide circulation
in England and America. It was set to music, and for many years helped to spread the fame of
this pirate.

