At the time when those wonderful events were being enacted, any  one opening a copy of those
general State Directories, with  which New England is particularly blessed, wherein not only
the  great commercial and industrial enterprises of each State are  enrolled, but also correct
lists of the educational  establishments and various churches of all cities, towns, and  villages,
are given --a cursory glance, even, would show him the  striking fact that, as far as the great
centres of population  were concerned, Catholic churches, educational establishments,  and
primary schools were found in respectable numbers; but many  a page had to be turned when the
reader came to places of lesser  importance, to rural populations chiefly, before he met with
any  indication of the Catholic Church entering yet upon that large  country domain. This experience
was encountered by the writer at  the time, and caused him a moment of doubt.

But beyond the reflection that, in matters of this kind (of the  propagation of a doctrine
or a creed), the first thing to be  looked to is the centre, and that this, once mastered,
will in  course of time draw under its influence the outer circles; that  all things cannot
be effected at once, and the best thing to be  done is to begin with the most important; that,
moreover, those  statistics are often incorrect with respect to Catholic matters,  whether
from malicious design, or inadvertence, or want of  knowledge, on subjects to which the compilers
attached very  little importance, so that, if their statements be compared with  Catholic official
intelligence with regard to the same places,  it will be found that many towns and villages
which, according  to the State Directories would seem to have been altogether  forgotten by
the Church, were actually in her possession, at  least by periodical or occasional visits;
apart from all these  considerations, there is one more important remark to be made,  which
includes in its bearing not only the present point of  consideration, but, it may be said,
the whole life of the Church  from the beginning; so that it is really a law of her birth,
existence, and propagation.

To illustrate our meaning, let us see how the Christian religion  first forced its way in heathen
lands, throughout the whole  Roman Empire, whether in its Oriental division where Greek was
spoken, or among its Western, Latin-speaking populations.

All the apostles fixed their sees in the largest or most  important cities of the ancient world;
St. Peter, under the  special guidance of God, taking possession of the capital and  mistress
of the whole. All the bishops ordained by the first  apostles did the same by their direction;
and it is needless to  add that the like law has been followed down to our own times  whenever
the Church has had to spread herself in a new country.

In accordance with this plan, the cities of the Roman world were  the first to be evangelized,
and their populations were  converted with greater or less difficulty, according to the  dispositions
of the inhabitants, before almost an effort had  been made for the conversion of the rural
populations, except as  they happened to come in the way of the "laborers in the  vineyard."
Hence the result, so well known: heathenism remained  rooted in the country for a much longer
time than in the cities,  so that the heathen were generally called pagans--pagani--as if 
it were enough, when desiring to convey the intimation that a  man was a worshipper of idols,
to designate him as a dweller in  the country. 1 (1 Another meaning is given to the word paganus
by some writers; but the old and common interpretation is the  surest, and is confirmed by
the best authorities.) And if the  word "pagans" became synonymous with heathens in all European
countries, it is a proof that the fact underlying the name was  universal wherever Christianity
spread. It is known, moreover,  that the dissemination of the Gospel in those rural districts
was a work of centuries, and that, for nearly a thousand years  after Christ, pagans were to
be found in villages of countries  already Christian.

The fundamental reason which governs and regulates these strange  facts is that already given,
namely, that Christianity-- that is, Catholicity--is a growth, and follows the laws of every
thing  that grows. True, its first increase is from without, by the  conversion of infidels
or erring men; but even in that first  stage of its existence, its growth is the faster where
the  numbers are greater; hence its establishment invariably in large  cities. But when it
has passed beyond this first stage, it  increases from within, like all growths, and the work
is  accomplished by the increase of families agglomerated in the  same large towns.

How true is it that the Church, once firmly planted in the midst  of one of those agglomerations
of men called cities, is sure in  the end to invade the whole as "the yeast that leavens the
whole! "How easy is it to see that in the course of time those cities  of the Union, among
which a large proportion of Catholics is  found, will belong almost exclusively to the true
Church, if for  no other reason by the births in families, even supposing that  the flow of
immigration should finally cease! If any one  entertains some doubt on this point, he has only
to consult the  records containing the number of children baptized in her bosom,  and compare
it with the corresponding number in families still  outside her.

Hence the really astonishing fact, whose truth is recognized to- day in all the Northern States
along the Atlantic coast, that  suddenly almost in the cities of New England, for instance,
where the number of Catholics was simply insignificant, they  took an apparently unaccountable
prominence, and in the course  of a few years, increasing steadily by birth as well as by 
immigration, the fact became the most curious though evident of  the times, completely changing
the moral and social aspect of  the country, and foretelling still greater changes to come.
For,  in the face of this wonderful increase to the ranks of  Catholicity, appears another
significant fact, but very  different as to direction and energy-- the gradual disappearance
of names once prominent in those parts, and the daily narrowing  area of Protestantism in the
numerous sects of which it is  composed.

At the same time a great danger was averted (or at least  wonderfully lessened and modified),
from the whole country, by  the settlement of those immigrants in the large centres of  population.
The manufacturing enterprises, which at that time  assumed such vast developments in North
America, received among  their workers, men and women, a large proportion of Catholics,  and
the fear of future political and social peril to the peace  and security of society at large
could never, on this continent,  reach the extreme point witnessed in Europe to-day. The great
danger of the European future nestles principally in those vast  hives of industry with which
that continent abounds. Our eyes  have witnessed, our ears have been affrighted at those  stupendous
plans and projects in which, not only the great  questions of capital and labor are involved,
but the whole  fabric of society is threatened with downfall. Religion,  government, property,
the family, the state--all those great  principles and facts on which the security of mankind
depends,  enter now into the programme of artisans and laborers enlisted  in gigantic and many-ramified
secret societies, while the whole  world trembles at the awful aspect of this unwelcome phantom,
that no government, however powerful, can lay.

Suppose that on this continent the numerous bands of workingmen,  so actively engaged everywhere
in developing the resources of  the country, should aim at extending their solicitude beyond
their immediate and material welfare to the reformation and  reorganization of mankind on a
new basis; and suppose that, with  this aim in view, they should combine with those of Europe,
and  enter into an unholy compact with them, what hope or refuge  would remain in the whole
world for harmony, peace, justice, and  happiness? And when the great upheaval, so generally
expected in  Europe, and which sooner or later must take place, shall come to  pass, where
could those men fly, who cannot but look upon those  satanic schemes with horror? Where on
this earth would be found  a spot consecrated to the acknowledgment of the only social  principles
which can secure the real good of mankind, by  rendering safe the stability of society?

It is our firm belief that the vast number of true children of  the Church, occupied honestly
and actively in the many factories  of the North, will, when the contest commences, even before
it  commences, when the question of connecting the "unions" of this  country in a band of brotherhood
with those of Europe shall be  gravely mooted, make their voices loudly and unmistakably heard
on the right side.

Enough has now been said on the locality chosen by preference as  the dwelling- place of the
Irish immigrants at the period under  consideration. Let us now see those armies of new-comers
at work. They have been called a missionary people; let us see how they  understand their "mission."

In this new country every thing had to be done for the  establishment of religion, education,
help for the poor, the  aged, the infirm, on a lasting and sufficiently broad basis. And, strange
to remark, it was found that the previous persecutions  they had undergone fitted them admirably
for their work, not  only by giving them a strong faith, the true foundation of  Christian
energy, but in a manner more curious, if not more  effective. It fitted them to give money
freely and abundantly,  poor as they were! One may smile incredulously at the conceit;  but
it has become a most powerful and incontestable fact.

Suppose the Irish never to have been persecuted in their own  country: suppose that they had
found there a benevolent  government to supply them with churches, schools, hospitals-- homes
for the poor--every thing that they, as Catholics, could  desire. Suppose them to have been
in a similar position with the  Frenchmen, Spaniards, and Italians, of those days, how bitterly
would they have felt the inconvenience of building all these  things up for themselves in their
new homes with the labor of  their own hands, by their own individual efforts, unaided by the
government! Their ardor would have been damped, their energy  cramped, their inclination to
give would have fallen far below  the necessities of the time: for money was sorely needed--no
niggard offerings, but immense sums.

But happily--happily in the result, not in the fact--not only  had the British Government never
done any thing of the kind for  them in their old home; not only, on the contrary, had it been
particularly careful to rob them of all the buildings and  estates left by their ancestors
for those great objects; but,  until very recently, the passing of the Emancipation Act of
1829, it had studiously and most persistently hindered them from  doing voluntarily for themselves
what it refused to do for them.  There were numerous penal statutes enacted, in the course
of two  centuries, to prevent them from building churches, opening  schools, erecting asylums
and hospitals of their own, nay, from  possessing consecrated graveyards for their dead. Thus
did  fanatic hatred pursue them even to the grave, and, as far as it  could, beyond the gates
of death. Every one had to surrender the  mortal remains of his relatives to the Protestant
minister for  burial; as though what the government called its religion would  snatch from
them whatever it could lay hands on--the body at  least since the soul had escaped and passed
beyond its reach.

But in their new country they found every thing altered. Not  only was prohibition of this
kind utterly unknown, but there  existed there the greatest amount of liberty ever enjoyed
by man  for acting in concert with a religious, educational, or  charitable object in view.
No law devised by the old Greek  republics, by the Roman fisc, by modern European intermeddling
was ever attempted in the country which with justice boasted of  being the "asylum of the oppressed."
Thus as the liberty so long  denied to the Irish was at last opened up, as no barrier existed
to cramp and confine the natural generosity of their hearts, no  sooner did they find that
they might contribute as they chose to  those great and holy objects, than they rushed at the
chances  offered them with what looked like recklessness.

We hope that the reader may understand, from this, our meaning  in saying that persecution
had admirably fitted them for the  mighty work that lay before them. It was the first time
for  centuries that they were allowed to give for such sacred  purposes.

Another thing which disposed than toward it was, the lingering  fondness for the old customs
of clanship, still harbored in  their inmost soul, never entirely dead and ready to revive
whenever an opportunity presented itself. There can be no doubt  of this; the great adjuration
of the clansman to his chieftain-- "Spend me, but defend me"--tended wonderfully to consecrate
in  their eyes the act of giving and giving constantly, as though  their purse could never
be exhausted. The chieftain has been  replaced by the bishop, the priest, the educator; the
nobility  has gone, but these have come; and unconsciously perhaps, but  none the less really,
does this feeling lie at the bottom of  their hearts, which are ever ready to burst out with
the old  expression, though in other form: "Spend me, eat me out, but  help my soul, and save
my children."

This feeling has always run in the blood of the race. St. Paul  long ago detected it in the
Galatians, a branch of the Celtic  tribes, when he wrote to them: "You received me as an angel
of  God, even as Christ Jesus. . . . I bear you witness that, if it  could be done, you would
have plucked out your own eyes, and  given them to me."--Epistle to the Galatians, iv. 15.

Few, perhaps, have reflected seriously on the large sums  required for the establishment of
the Catholic Church in so vast  a country, with all her adjunct institutions; therefore the
stupendous result has scarcely struck those who have witnessed  and lived in the midst of it.
The same is the case, though on a  much smaller scale, with respect to the money sent back
to  Ireland by newly-arrived immigrants. People were aware that the  Irish, women as well as
men, were in the habit of forwarding  drafts of one, two, or three pounds to their relatives
and  friends, but in such small amounts that the whole could not  reach a very high figure.
But when it came to be discovered that  many banking associations were drawing large dividends
from the  operation, that new banks were continually being opened which  looked to the profit
to be derived from such transmission as  their chief means of support, some curious people
set to work  collecting information on the subject and instituting inquiries,  when it was
found that the aggregate sum amounted to millions,  and would have become a serious item in
the specie exports of  the country, if what was transmitted did not in the main come  back
with those to whom it had been forwarded.

So was it, but in much larger proportions with respect to the  amounts annually spent in the
purchase of real estate, the  building of churches, schools, asylums, hospitals, for the  support
of clergymen, school-teachers, clerks, officials,  servants, which were called for all at once,
over the surface of  an extensive territory, for the service of hundreds of thousands  of Catholics
arriving yearly with the intention of settling  permanently in the country. Could the full
statistics be  furnished, they would excite the surprise of all; the few  details which we
would be enabled to gather from directories,  newspapers, the reports of witnesses, and other
sources, could  give but a faint idea of the whole, and are consequently better  omitted.

One single observation will produce a more lasting impression on  the reader's mind than long
statistics, and the enumeration of  buildings and other undertakings. It is a fact, without
the  least tinge of exaggeration, that in the States of Pennsylvania,  New Jersey, New York,
Connecticut, Massachusetts, Ohio, Indiana,  Illinois, Iowa, Missouri, Wisconsin, and several
other Western  States, nearly every clergyman, who had the care of a single  parish before
1840, if alive to-day, could show in his former  district from ten to twenty parishes, each
with its own pastor  and church, now flourishing, and attached to each a much larger  number
of useful educational and charitable establishments than  he could have boasted of in his original
charge. Let one reflect  on this, and then imagine to himself the sums requisite to  purchase
such an amount of real estate, for the erection of so  many edifices, and for placing on an
efficient footing so many  different establishments.

It is true that, to-day, a number of these institutions are  still in debt; but, if the list
of what is actually paid for be  made out, and separated from what still remains indebted,
the  result would stand as a most wonderful fact.

The question will naturally present itself, "How was it possible  for newly- arrived immigrants,
who often landed without a penny  in their pockets, to become all at once so easy in their
circumstances as to be enabled to contribute, so generously and  enormously, to so gigantic
an enterprise?" The details in reply  to this might be given very simply and satisfactorily;
but, as  it is a real work of God, who always acts simply and  satisfactorily, though in a
manner worthy of the deepest  attention and gratitude, it is proper to examine the question
in  all its bearings, and then even those who have seen, and can  account for it very easily,
will wonder, admire, and thank, the  infinite Providence of God.

First, it is certain that nowhere else in this world could it  have been accomplished at all;
and nowhere else in this world  has any thing like it been accomplished in a like manner. This
may appear strange, but it is so; let us see.

All know how, in infidel countries, every thing necessary for  the material help of Catholic
missions must be supplied by the  missionaries themselves; that, in fact, they have not only
their  own support to consider, but, often also, the feeding, clothing,  and education of the
natives at their own expense. It is thus in  all the barbarous countries of Asia, Africa, and
the new  continent and islands in the South Sea. It is thus in the old,  effete, but once civilized
countries of Asia, such as Syria,  Hindostan, China, and others. In all those countries, money
must  come from without, not only to begin, but to continue, the work  of evangelization, even
when it has been going on for centuries.  Details on this subject are unnecessary, the truth
of what has  just been said is so well known.

In Christian countries, as in Europe, the various governments  have so far contributed to the
aid of the mission of  Christianity, or have been gracious enough to allow such of the  wealthy
classes as were willing to take this task off their  shoulders and set it up on their own,
the lower classes being  scarcely able to help toward it. What the case will be when the  halcyon
days come of the separation of Church and state, and the  latter succeeds in the object at
which it seems so earnestly  striving now, of making the people godless like itself, when the
rich will no longer be willing to undertake this work, God only  knows. But in those countries,
as is well known, the government,  formerly, and latterly up to quite recent times, or rich
families by large contributions laid down at once, have built  churches, founded universities,
colleges, and schools, erected  hospitals and asylums; founded-- such was the expression--all
the religious, charitable, or literary institutions in existence. The "people" have scarcely
effected any thing in this direction, for the very good reason that they were unable to do so.

In the United States alone, and among Catholics alone, it is  "the people," the poor, who have
taken and been able to take  this matter into their own hands.

That they--the Irish particularly--have done this, redounds to  their honor, and it will receive
its reward from God; nay, has  already in a great measure received it, by filling the land
with  the temples of their faith, with schools where their children  are still taught to believe
in God and grow up a moral race, and  with the various Catholic asylums and institutions established
for the glory of religion, or the comfort of those who are  comfortless. That they have been
able to do this is owing to the  unique, exceptional, marvellous prosperity of the country
which  offered them an asylum. And let us add with reverence that the  country owes this singular
prosperity, which has been the source  of so many blessings, to the designs of a loving Providence,
who  looks to the welfare of the whole of mankind, and has therefore  endowed this young and
gigantic nation with the necessary  qualities of energy, activity, "go-aheaditiveness," as
it is  called, added to the fixed principle that every individual  throughout these vast domains
shall enjoy liberty, facility of  acquiring a competency, and the right to make what use of
it he  pleases, as well as generosity enough to applaud the one who  devotes his surplus earnings
to useful public undertakings.

In no other country of the world has this been the case, and in  no other country is it the
case at the present moment. And, as  the fact is mighty in its results, unprepared by man,
unlooked  for a hundred years ago, requiring for its fulfilment a thousand  agencies far beyond
the control of any man or inferior mind,  following the line of reasoning previously indicated,
we ascribe, are constrained to ascribe, it all to the great infinite Mind,  to God himself,
and to him alone!

And now we turn to the workings of the Irish, and to a  consideration of a few of the details.
The first crying need was  churches and orphan asylums: churches for the all-important  worship
of God; orphan asylums to receive the numbers of  children left homeless by the death of immigrants
soon after  their arrival, and who were immediately snatched up by the  proselytizing sects.

The style of architecture displayed in those first temples of  the great God was homely indeed
and humble. Nevertheless, it  might favorably compare with similar buildings erected by  wealthy
Protestant congregations. This fact alone is sufficient  to convict Protestantism of want of
faith, namely, that its  adherents have never been struck by the thought that the majesty 
of God, if really felt, calls for a profusion of gifts on the  part of those who have superabundant
means. Not that man can by  his feeble exertions in that regard give adequate honor to the
divine Omnipotence, but that love and gratitude are naturally  profuse in their demonstrations,
and whoever loves ardently is  ever ready to give all he has for the object of his love, even
to the sacrifice of himself. The reflection that God is too  great, and that it is useless,
even presumptuous, to offer to  him what must seem so infinitely mean in the light of his 
greatness, is but the flimsy pretext of an avaricious soul, and  can be nothing but a lie,
even in the eyes of those who utter it. From the beginning all truly religious nations have
endeavored  to make their external worship correspond with their internal  feeling, and give
expression, as far as man can do, to their  idea of the worth and majesty of God; and that
thought is a true  measure of a religion; for, when the external is but a cold and  sordid
worship, we may be sure that the internal corresponds;  and, when little or nothing is done
in that way, it is clear  that the heart feels not, and the mind is empty of true  convictions
and of faith.

And what has been the invariable conduct of Protestant nations  in this regard? They became
possessed of splendid churches built  by their Catholic ancestors, and, after stripping them
of all  their beauty, they retained them as "preaching-halls" or  "meeting- houses." The number
of those who remained attached to  a frigid and unattractive service gradually diminished;
the  edifices were found to be too large, and in many instances what  had been the sanctuary,
where art had exhausted itself in  embellishment, partitioned off from the rest of the church,
was  kept for their dwindling congregations, while the vast aisles  and roomy naves went slowly
to ruin, or became deserted  solitudes. As for the idea of building new religious edifices,
the old ones were already too numerous for them, or if, as was  not unfrequent, a new sect
started into spasmodic life, and its  votaries found it necessary to open a new "place of worship,"
the temple they erected to God generally took the form of a  hired hall. Let the floor be carpeted
and the benches covered  with soft, slumber-inviting cushions, the room wear a general  air
and aspect of comfort, the "acoustics" duly considered, so  that the voice of the preacher
might reach to the door and half- way to the galleries, and nothing more was required. The
man who  asked for something more solemn, and answering better to the  cravings of a religious
heart, would be laughed at as a  visionary, if his person did not distil, to the keen-scented
organs of these religious folk, a strong flavor of "popery " and  of "the man of sin."

So that in the United States at the time spoken of, although the  number of churches was extraordinary,
because of the number of  sects, they were mere shells of buildings, capable of  accommodating
from three to eight hundred people (very few of  the latter capacity); and, although many of
the members of the  congregations who built them were rich men, adding to their  wealth daily,
one seldom encountered any of the structures, then  common, showing much more than four walls,
enclosing four lines  of clumsy pews.

Consequently, the Catholic Church had no reason to blush by  comparison at the poverty of her
children; nay, the extreme  simplicity of the edifices raised by them was in keeping with 
every thing around, and what they did in the hurry of the moment, with the scanty means at
their disposal, at least might vie  with what wealthy Protestants had done deliberately with
all the  leisure and wealth at their command.

Already, even at that epoch, in the centre of Catholicity in  this country, the love of the
true worshipper of God began to  display something of that feeling which is naturally alive
in  the heart of the sincerely religious man; and the Cathedral of  Baltimore, long since left
so far behind by other monuments of  true devotion, created throughout the country a genuine
excitement and admiration, when its doors were first opened for  the worship of God. It was
clear, from the universal acclaim of  the people, non-Catholics included, that at least one
class of  men in the country had a true idea of what was worthy of God in  his worship, and
what was worthy of themselves in their worship  of him.

But, though, with some rare exceptions, the architecture  displayed in those edifices constructed
by the children of the  true Church was poor indeed, the number of those which were  commenced
and so speedily completed and devoted to their holy  use was so extraordinary, that it is doubtful
if the annals of  Catholicity have ever recorded the same thing occurring on the  same scale,
in the same extent of country. If the ecclesiastical  history of the United States ever comes
to be written, it is to  be hoped that, in the archives of the various episcopal sees,  authentic
documents have been preserved, which may furnish  future writers with comprehensive statistics
on the subject,  that the posterity of the noble-hearted men and women who  undertook and carried
out, with such a wonderful success, so  arduous a task, may be stimulated to religious exertion
of the  same kind by the memory of what their forefathers have  accomplished. The reflection
already suggested by another idea  may serve here likewise, and be usefully repeated. If, in
the  course of twenty-five years, over the surface of at least ten of  the largest Northern
States, every clergyman who, at the  beginning of that period, officiated in a very small church,
is,  to-day, supposing him living, gladdened by the sight of ten to  twenty collaborators,
with a corresponding number of newly-built  churches, it is easy to judge of the vastness of
the effort made  by the greatness of the undertaking and the unexampled success  with which
God has been pleased to crown it. The other States of  the Union are omitted here, not because
the Catholics residing  in them were then idle, but because, their growth being less  remarkable,
the external result could not be so striking.  Nevertheless, the actual increase among them
would compare  favorably with that of other growing Catholic countries.

Could details, at this present time, only be gathered from all  the States, in the area referred
to, the vast diffusion of  Catholicity by the influence of immigration would come home to 
us with far greater force, as would the conception of the  corresponding work demanded of the
immigrants for the creation  of all the objects of worship, charity, and education. Let the
reader look to what is related in the "Life of Bishop Loras,"  who was at that time charged
with the founding of religion in  Iowa and Minnesota. It will at the same time bring under
our  notice the march of the Irish toward the West, after having seen  them solidly established
in the Atlantic States.

"He was consecrated at Mobile by Bishop Portier, assisted by  Bishop Blanc, of New Orleans,
on December 10, 1837. His diocese  was a vast region unknown to him. The unfinished Church
of St.  Raphael, at Dubuque, was the only Catholic church in the  Territory, and the Rev. Sam.
Mazzuchelli, its pastor, was the  only Catholic priest. The Catholic population of Dubuque
was  about three hundred. . . . But there must be, thought the new  bishop, some members of
the flock in distant, isolated, and  unfrequented localities, who were in danger of wandering
from  the faith; besides, the future waves of population would  certainly set in toward this
fine expanse of meadow, prairie,  and forest. . . . With prudent foresight he purchased land
. . . . three acres at Dubuque; later, St. Joseph's Prairie, one mile  square, near the same
city. . . . A valuable property was  acquired in Davenport, on the Mississippi, with the view
of  applying the revenue from it to the support of the missions.

"To his regret he saw large numbers of the European immigrants  tarrying in the Atlantic cities,
where want, sickness, and crime, beset their path, and he became deeply interested in giving
to  this worth population the more healthful and vigorous direction  of the West. . . . Articles
were prepared and published, setting  forth the attractions of the country. . . . An immense
correspondence, with persons in this country and in Europe,  resulted from the well-known interest
Bishop Loras took in these  subjects. . . . He undertook the settlement of colonies. . . .
Germans in New Vienna, in 1846 . . . Irish on the Big-Maquokety.  . . . He organized them in
congregations and commenced in person  the work of building for them churches. . . . establishing
schools and academies, laboring for the temporal and eternal  welfare of the people."

Thus did the tide of Catholic population begin to flow into Iowa  and Minnesota, to be brought
under the influence of the Church  as soon as it arrived.

Meanwhile associations were being formed in the East, in New  York chiefly, for the purpose
of inducing Irishmen to go west as  far as Illinois, and the Territories west of the Mississippi.
Several zealous clergymen placed themselves at the head of the  movement. Their main object
was to rescue the Catholic  immigrants from the dangers surrounding them in large cities, 
and to make farmers of them. We have seen why these plans,  though prompted by the best intentions,
failed to succeed; their  immediate effect was to give a fresh impetus to the great  movement
westward, and, by relieving the Atlantic coast of a  sudden excess of population, to extend
the Church along the line  marked out by Providence toward the coast of the Pacific.

At the same time, on the very shores of that vast ocean,  California was receiving directly
from Europe large detachments  of the voluntary exiles who were then leaving Ireland in a 
compact body in the full tide of the "Exodus." The Catholic  Church was thus early taking up
a commanding position at the  extreme point whither the main "army" was tending, and soon to
arrive with the completion of the great Pacific Railroad.

The following extract, taken from the "Life of Bishop Loras,"  will be sufficient to give an
idea of the rapid increase of the  Catholic population in the West, in consequence of the workings
of so many agencies employed by God's providence for his own  holy ends:

"In 1855, the Catholic population of Iowa increased one hundred  and fifty per centum in a
single year. It seems almost  incredible to relate, that the churches and stations, provided
for their accommodation, increased in the same time nearly one  hundred per centum. The Catholic
population reported in 1855 was  twenty thousand, and the churches and stations fifty-two;
the  Catholic population in 1856 was rated at forty-nine thousand,  and the churches and stations
at ninety-seven.

"Bishop Loras commenced his episcopate (in 1837) with one church, one priest, and the only
Catholic population reported, that of  Dubuque, was three hundred. In 1851, Minnesota was taken
from  his diocese, yet in 1858, the year of his death, the diocese of  Dubuque alone possessed
one hundred and seven priests, one  hundred and two churches and stations, and a Catholic population
of fifty-five thousand."

There can be little doubt that, if similar statistics were drawn  up for all the Western States
of the Union during a  corresponding period, they would give very similar results; and  it
is only by reflecting and pondering over such astonishing  facts as these, that the mind can
come to grasp the idea of the  magnitude of the work assigned by Providence to the Irish race.
This, we have no hesitation in saying, will form one of the most  remarkable features of the
future ecclesiastical history of the  age, and will appear the more clearly when all the consequences
of this stupendous movement shall stand out fully developed, so  as to strike the eyes of all.

It may be well to reflect a moment upon the activity displayed  by that zealous hive of busy
immigrants, who, soon after landing, when the thoughts of other men would have been exclusively
and,  as men would think, naturally, occupied by the thousand  necessities arising from a new
establishment on a foreign soil-- while not neglecting those necessities--found time to enter
heart and soul into projects set on foot everywhere for buying  up landed property, making
contracts with builders, supervising  the work already going on, attending above all to the
collection  of money, forming lists of subscribers to that end, visiting  round about for the
same purpose, and attending to the  fulfilment of promises sometimes made too hastily, or with
too  sanguine an expectation of being able to accomplish what in the  future was never realized
to the extent expected.

But, much sooner than might have been hoped, the desire, so  congenial to the Catholic heart,
of beholding more suitable  dwellings erected to the honor of God and to the reception of 
his Divine presence, was fulfilled, or aroused, rather, in a  quarter least expected, and consequently
more in accordance with  the (to man) mysterious ways of Providence. The sudden increase  of
the Church in England, in consequence of remarkable  conversions and principally of the little-remarked
flow of  emigrants thither from the sister isle, induced some pious and  wealthy English Catholics,
now that they found themselves free  to follow their inclinations unmolested, to devote their
means  to the construction of churches worthy of the name. The splendid  structures, now the
lifeless monuments of the old faith, which  their fathers had raised, rested in the hands of
the spoiler,  and they could not worship, save privately and inwardly, at the  shrine of Thomas
of Canterbury, or before the tomb of Edward the  Confessor. Yet were their eyes ever afflicted
with the presence  of those noble edifices, that resembled the solemn tombs of a  buried faith,
yet still cast their lofty spires heavenward,  while the structure beneath them covered acres
of ground with  the most profuse and elaborate architecture. They looked around  them for a
builder, who might raise them such again. But there  was none to be found capable of conceiving,
much less building  such vast fabrics as the old churches, which owed their  existence not
to the ingenuity of a designer, but to the  inspired enthusiasm of a living faith. Nevertheless,
a man, full  of energy and reverence and love for the beauty of the house of  God, came forward
at the very moment he was wanted. Welby Pugin  soon became known to the world, and was still
in the full vigor  of his enterprising life, when all over the American Continent  the immigrants
were engaged in satisfying the first cravings of  their hearts, and covering the country with
unpretending  edifices crowned, at least, by the symbol of salvation. Among  them arrived pupils
of Pugin, who speedily found Irish hearts to  respond to theirs, and Irish purses ready to
carry their designs  into execution.

There is no need of going into details. Puritan New England even  has seen its chief cities
one by one adorned with true temples  of God, and its small towns embellished by stone edifices
devoted to Catholic worship, their form pleasing to the eye, and  their interior spacious enough,
at least temporarily, for the  constantly-increasing congregations. But perhaps the most  remarkable
result of all has been the sudden zeal which sprang  up among the sectarians themselves, who
had hitherto expressed  such contempt for any thing of the kind, of outstripping the  Catholics
in Christian architecture. They have even gone so far  as to discover that the cross, the emblem
of man's salvation, is  not such a very inappropriate ornament, after all, to the summit  of
a Christian temple, and that the statues of angels and of  saints are possessed of a certain
beauty. So that what in their  eyes hitherto had borne the semblance of idolatry--such,  according
to themselves, was their way of looking at it-- suddenly became an aesthetic feeling, if not
an act of true  devotion.

And, singularly enough, it was just at the time when the  erection of so many episcopal sees
necessitated the building of  cathedrals, that the thought, natural to the Catholic heart,
of  making the house of God a place of beauty and magnificence,  could begin to be realized
by the arrival of true artists and  the increasing wealth of the Catholic body.

It is in the true Church only that the meaning of a cathedral  can be fully grasped. Those
sects which acknowledge no bishops  and deride the title certainly can form no conception of
it, and  even those who imagine that they have a bishop at their head,  have so little idea
of what are true episcopal functions, of the  greatness of the position which a see occupies,
of the  importance of the place where it is established, that in their  eyes the pretended
dignitary can scarcely rank much higher,  either in position or degree, than a wealthy parish
minister,  and the church wherein "his lordship" officiates is very much  the same as an ordinary
parish church. If in England a show of  dignitaries is attached to each of those establishments,
it is  merely a form well calculated to impress the solemn Anglo-Saxon  character; but even
that very form would scarcely have existed  were it not one of those few semblances of the
Catholic reality  which the wily founders of the Protestant religion found it  convenient to
retain for the purpose hinted at. The Catholic  Church alone can understand what a cathedral
ought to be.

This is not the occasion to enter upon an explanation of all the  meanings and uses of a cathedral,
least of all to penetrate the  sublime mystical significance embodied in its conception. Here
it is enough to insist upon the least important, yet most  sensible and more easily-recognized
object of the building,  which is, not simply the seat of honor of the first pastor of  the
diocese, who is a successor of the apostles, but likewise  the place of adoration and sacrifice
common to all the faithful  of the diocese. Strictly speaking, no special congregation is 
attached to it; but it is the spiritual home of all the faithful; its doors are open to all
the congregations of that part. There  the common father resides and officiates; there his
voice is  generally to be heard; there he is to be found surrounded by all  those whose duty
it is to assist him in his sublime functions.  When he appears in any parish church, the clergy
of that special  temple are his only attendants, unless others flock thither to  do him honor.
But the cathedral is his fixed seat and permanent  abode; there the appointed dignitaries of
the diocese find their  allotted places, and there alone are his officers permanently  attached
to him by their functions.

Hence it is the cardinal church upon which the whole spiritual  edifice called the diocese
is hinged. Therefore is it the  natural resort of the whole flock, as well as of the pastor
himself. This will explain the vastness of those edifices which  strike us with wonder in old
established Catholic countries. In  accordance with their primitive intention and purpose,
there  should be in them standing and kneeling room for all who have a  right to enter there;
and it is purely on account of the  impossibility of exactly fulfilling this intent that the
edifice  is allowed to be built smaller. We are thus enabled to  understand why the great temple
which is the centre-spot of  Catholic worship can contain only fifty thousand worshippers at
a time, and why many other sacred edifices consecrated to  episcopal functions can find room
for no more than twenty or  thirty thousand.

But even those structures, which strike with wonder the puny  minds of this "advanced" age,
have consumed centuries in their  construction, and the number and the faith of those who raised
them were, we may say, exceptional in the life of the Church.  There were no dissenters in
those days; and, as all were  possessed of a firm faith, all labored with a common will and
contributed with a common pleasure to their construction.

Times having changed for the worse, the same ardor and  generosity could not be looked for;
but something at least was  required which should give some idea of the old, splendor and 
vastness. So, throughout all the new dioceses projects were set  on foot for raising real cathedrals,
which should quite  overshadow the buildings hitherto known by that name.

Thus, a cathedral was promised to New York City, three hundred  and thirty feet in length,
and one hundred and seventy-two in  breadth across the transept; while that of Philadelphia
was soon  completed, and all might gaze on the massive and majestic  edifice, by the side of
which every other public building in a  city containing eight hundred thousand souls appeared
dwarfish  and unsubstantial. Boston was soon to behold within its walls a  Catholic cathedral,
three hundred and sixty-four feet long, and  one hundred and forty broad in the transept, though
the same  diocese was already filled with large stone churches, built  solely by the resources
of the immigrants.

The Archbishop of New York, when preaching the sermon at the  laying of the foundation-stone
of this edifice in 1867, was able  to say in the presence of many who might have borne personal
testimony to the truth of his words: "There are those most  probably within the sound of my
voice who can remember when  there was but one Catholic church in Boston, and when that  sufficed,
or had to suffice, not alone for this city, but for  all New England; and how is it now? Churches
and institutions  multiplied, and daily continuing to multiply on every side, in  this city,
throughout this State, in all or nearly all the  cities and States of New England; so that
at this day no portion  of our country is enriched with them in greater proportionate  number,
none where they have grown up to a more flourishing  condition, none where finished with more
artistic skill, or  presenting monuments of more architectural taste and beauty."

Had any one predicted this to the good and gifted Bishop  Cheverus, when leaving America for
France, he might perhaps have  not refused altogether to believe or hope for it, but he would
certainly have pronounced it a real and undoubted miracle of God, to happen within a century.

But the Archbishop of New York, in that same sermon, pointed out  the true cause, when he attributed
it to "God's blessing," and  to "the never-ceasing tide of immigration that has been and  still
continues to be setting toward the American shores."

The history of the Church certainly contains many a page where  the traces of the finger of
God are clearly marked; nay, we may  say that such traces are apparent throughout, as we know
that  God alone could have originated, spread out, supported,  multiplied, and perpetuated
the Church through all the centuries  of her existence; but it is doubtful if in all her annals
a  single page shows where the action of Providence is more clearly  visible, as it was least
expected, than in the few facts just  cursorily and briefly enumerated.

Yet have we mentioned only a part of the work to which the poor  immigrants were called to
contribute immediately after their  arrival, and at the vastness of which they never murmured
nor  lost heart, as though a greater burden had been laid upon them  than human shoulders could
endure.

The worship of God and the care of souls were the first things  to be attended to, and, with
these, other necessary objects were  not to be neglected. There was the care of the poor, whom
the  Church of Christ was the first public body to think of relieving; the tending of the sick
in hospitals, where their own clergy  might not only have access, but where it should be made
sure  that the management be one of true Christian charity and  tenderness; the orphan children,
always so numerous under  circumstances like those of the present, were to be saved from  falling
into the hands of sectarians, and being educated by them, as were formerly the Catholic wards,
in hatred of their own  faith, and of the customs, habits, and modes of thought of their  ancestors.
This last great and incalculable source of loss to  the Church was to be put a stop to at once,
if not completely-- for that was then impossible--at least as perfectly as zeal,  generosity,
and true love of souls, could effect. All these  works required money, an incalculable amount;
as it was not in a  single city, not in a small particular State, but throughout the  whole
Union, through as many cities as it contains, that the  undertaking was to be straightway set
on foot and simultaneously  acted upon.

Nor was the question one of the erection of buildings merely,  but also of the support of an
immense number of inmates, and of  their constant support without a single day's intermission.
Who  can calculate the sums required for such immediate and most  pressing needs?

In a nation where Christianity has been long established, taxes  imposed upon all for the constructing,
repairing, maintaining,  and carrying on so many and such large establishments are easily 
collected. For all are bound by law to contribute to such  purposes, and the question generally
reduces itself merely to a  continuance of the support of institutions long standing, and 
which can be no longer in need of the large disbursements  necessary at the first period of
their existence. But here it  was a question of providing, without any other law than that
of  love, without the help of any other tax-gatherer than the  voluntary collector, for all
those necessities at once,  including the vast outlays requisite for the first establishment
of those institutions, and imposing, by that very act, the  necessity and duty of supporting
forever all the inmates  gathered together at the cost of so much care and expense,  within
those walls consecrated to religion and charity. The  government had no share whatever in it;
too happy were they at  the government interposing no obstacle to its carrying out! That  was
all they asked for on its part--non-interference.

On this subject, Mr. Maguire remarks justly, without, however,  bringing the matter of expenditure
into sufficient prominence:

"For the glorious Church of America many nations have done their  part. The sacred seed first
planted by the hand of the  chivalrous Spaniard has been watered by the blood of the  generous
Gaul; to the infant mission the Englishman brought his  steadfastness and resolution, the Scotchman,
in the northeast,  his quiet firmness, . . . the Irishman his faith, the ardor of  his faith.
And, as time rolled on, and wave after wave of  immigration brought with it more and more of
the precious life- blood of Europe, from no country was there a richer contribution  of piety
and zeal, of devotion and self-sacrifice, than from  that advanced outpost of the Old World,
whose western shores  first break the fury of the Atlantic; to whose people Providence  appears
to have assigned a destiny grand and heroic--of carrying  the civilization of the Cross to
remote lands and distant  nations. What Ireland has done for the American Church, every  bishop,
every priest, can tell. Throughout the vast extent of  the Union there is scarcely a church,
an academy, a hospital, or  a refuge, in which the piety, the learning, the zeal, the self-
sacrifice, of the Irish--of the priest or the professor, of the  Sisters of every order or
denomination--are not to be traced;  there is scarcely an ecclesiastical seminary for English-
speaking students in which the great majority of those now  preparing for the service of the
sanctuary do not belong, if not  by birth, at least by blood, to that historic land to which
the  grateful Church of past ages accorded the proud title, Insula  Sanctorum."

To this may be added the remark that it is still further beyond  doubt that all the establishments
mentioned, almost without one  exception, owe their existence, at least partially, and very
often entirely, to the generous and never-failing contributions  of the Irish.

The Rev. C. G. White, in his "Sketch of the Origin and Progress  of the Catholic Church in
the United States of America," which  is appended to the translation of Darras's "History of
the  Catholic Church," says still more positively:

"In recording this consoling advancement of Catholicity  throughout the United States, especially
in the North and West,  justice requires us to state that it is owing in a great measure  to
the faith, zeal, and generosity of the Irish people who have  immigrated to these shores, and
their descendants. We are far  from wishing to detract from the merit of other nationalities;
but the vast influence which the Irish population has exerted in  extending the domain of the
Church is well deserving of notice,  because it conveys a very instructive lesson. The wonderful
history of the Irish nation has always forced upon us the  conviction that, like the chosen
generation of Abraham (previous  to their rejection of the Messiah, of course), they were 
destined, in the designs of Providence, to a special mission for  the preservation and propagation
of the true faith. This faith,  so pure, so lovely, so generous, displays itself in every region
of the globe. To its vitality and energy must we attribute, to a  very great extent, the rapid
increase in the number of churches  and other institutions which have sprung up and are still
springing up in the United States, and to the same source are  the clergy mainly indebted for
their support in the exercise of  their pastoral ministry. It cannot be denied, and we bear
a  cheerful testimony to the fact, that hundreds of clergymen, who  are laboring for the salvation
of souls, would starve, and their  efforts for the cause of religion would be in vain, but
for the  generous aid they receive from the children of Erin, who know,  for the most part,
how to appreciate the benefits of religion,  and who therefore joyfully contribute of their
worldly means to  purchase the spiritual blessings which the Church dispenses."

To this we may add that what Mr. White so expressly states of  the generous support given by
the Irish people to the clergy is  equally true when extended to the thousand inmates of orphan
asylums, reformatories, schools, convents, and of all the  charitable institutions generally
which are specially fostered  by the Church for the common good of humanity. To quote only
one  fact recorded in a note to Mr. Maguire's book, a Sister of Mercy  tells us what the Irish
working-class has done for the order in  Cincinnati: "The convent, schools, and House of Mercy,
in which  the good works of our Institute are progressing, were purchased  in 1861 at a considerable
outlay. This, together with the  repairs, alterations, furnishing, etc., was defrayed by the
working-class of Irish people, who have been and are to us most  devoted, and by their generosity
have enabled us up to the  present time to carry out successfully our works of mercy and  charity."

It may be stated, without fear of contradiction, that the same  thing might be asserted by
the superior of almost every Catholic  establishment in the country, were an opportunity afforded
them  of coming forward in like manner.

All this is well known to those who are in the least acquainted  with the history and workings
of those institutions; but very  little noise is made about it, according to the rule of the
Gospel which recommends us to do good in such a manner that "the  left hand may not know what
the right hand doeth." Nothing is  more Christian than such silent approval, and the eternal
reward, which must follow, is so overwhelmingly great that the applause  of the world may well
be disregarded. But as constant good  offices are apt to beget indifference in those who benefit
most  by them, there are not wanting some good people who seem to  labor under the impression
that really the Irish deserve  scarcely any thanks; that every thing which they do comes so
naturally from them, it is only what one could expect as a  matter of course, and that, it
being nothing more, after all,  than their simple duty, it becomes a very ordinary thing.

It may be superfluous to say that if all this was expected from  them, and if it be, as it
really is, after all only a very  ordinary thing on their part, this fact is precisely what
makes them a most extraordinary people, as expectations of this  nature which may be most natural
are of that peculiar kind of  "great expectations" magnificent in prospect, but very delusive
in fact; and certainly they would not be looked for as a matter  of course in any other nation.
Let any one reflect on the few  details here furnished, let him add others from his own  information,
and the whole thing will appear, as it truly is,  most wonderful, and only to be explained
by the great and  merciful designs of God, as Dr. White has just indicated-- designs intrusted
on this occasion to faithful servants whose  generous hearts and pure souls opened up to the
mission  intrusted to them, to its glorious fulfilment so far, and to a  greater unfolding
still in time to come.

In order to understand, as ought to be understood, more fully  the weight of the burden they
so cheerfully undertook to bear, a  few reflections on the subject of religious and charitable
institutions will not be considered out of place.

The Romans--those master-organizers, who reduced to a perfect  system every branch of government,
legislation, war, and  religion--never abandoned, never intrusted to the initiative of  the
people, the care of providing the means for any thing which  the state ought to supply. The
public religious establishments  were all endowed, the colleges of the priests enjoyed large
revenues, and the expenses of worship were supplied from the  same source. To the fisc in general
belonged the duty of  supporting the armories, the courts of law, and the large  establishments
provided for the comfort and instruction of the  people, the baths, libraries, and regular
amusements. The  private munificence of emperors, great patricians, and  conquerors, undertook
to supply occasional shows of an  extraordinary character in the theatres, amphitheatre, and
the  circus.

There was no room left for charity in the whole plan. Indeed,  the meaning of that word was
unknown to them; for it cannot be  properly applied to the regular distribution of money or
cereals  to the plebs; as this was one of those generosities which are  necessary, and was
only practised in order to keep the lower orders of citizens in idle content and out of mischief,
as you would a wild animal which you dare not chain: you must feed  him. The really poor, the
saves, the maimed, the helpless, were  left to their hard fate, they being apparently unworthy
of pity  because they excited no fear.

Yet the system was fruitful in its results. As soon as  Christianity was seated on the throne,
nothing was easier than  to transfer the immense sums contributed by regular funds, or  which
were the product of taxes, from one object to another; and  thus the Christian clergy and churches
were supported as had  been the colleges and temples of the pagan priests, by the  revenues
derived from large estates attached to the various  corporations. Thus did Constantine and
his successors become the  munificent benefactors of the Church in Rome and through-out the
whole empire.

Meanwhile, the 11 collections of money" among the faithful,  which were first organized, as
we read in the epistles of the  apostles, and afterward systematized still better in Rome under
the first popes, soon grew into disuse, at least to the extent  to which they once prevailed;
the new charitable institutions,  such as the care of the poor, of widows and orphans, being
under- taken by the Church at large, while the expenses of the whole  were defrayed by the
revenues accruing from the donations of  princes, or the bequests of wealthy Christians.

The consequence was that, throughout the whole Christian world,  all religious, literary, and
charitable institutions enjoyed  large revenues, and there was no need of applying to the 
generosity of the common people for contributions.

After the successful invasion of the barbarians, the same system  held good; and history records
how richly endowed were the  churches built, the monasteries founded, the universities and
colleges opened, by the once ferocious Franks, Germans, or  Northmen even, tamed and subdued
by the precepts and practices  of Christianity.

We know how the immense wealth, which had been devoted to such  holy purposes by the wise generosity
of rulers or rich nobles,  became in course of time an eyesore and object of envy to the  worldly,
and that the chief incentive to the `~ Reformers" for  doing their work of 11 reformation"
thoroughly was the prospect  of the golden harvest to be reaped by the destruction of the 
Catholic Church.

But the very large amounts required to satisfy the aspirations  introduced into the heart of
humanity, by the religion of Christ, may give us an adequate idea of what Christian civilization
really costs. It is foolish to imagine a sane man really  believing that those generous founders
of pious institutions,  who devote by gift or bequest, such large estates and revenues  to
the various

*********** This E-text is missing paper pages 457-472. ***********

We cannot afford to transfer any more of his experiences among  the Irish. From all his accounts,
they are the same in London as  everywhere else, most firmly attached to Catholicity, and,
as a  general rule, most exemplary in the performance of their  religious obligations.

It is fitting, however, to give the conclusion of a long  description of what he saw among
them while visiting them in the  company of a clergyman: "The religious fervor of the people
whom  I saw was intense. At one house that I entered, the woman set me  marvelling at the strength
of her zeal, by showing me how she  continued to have in her sitting-room a sanctuary to pray
every  night and morning, and even during the day when she felt weary  and lonesome."

II. Passing from religion to morality, let us look at this  writer again: "Only one-tenth,
at the outside, of the couples  living together and carrying on the costermongering trade (among
the English) are married. . . . Of the rights of legitimate or  illegitimate children, the
English costermongers understand  nothing, and account it a mere waste of money to go through
the  ceremony of wedlock, when a pair can live together, and be quite  as well regarded by
their fellows without it. The married women  associate with the unmarried mothers of families
without scruple. There is no honor attached to the married state and no shame to  concubinage.

"As regards the fidelity of these women, I was assured that in  any thing like good times they
were rigidly faithful to their  paramours; but that, in the worst pinch of poverty, a departure
from this fidelity--if it provided a few meals or a fire--was  not considered at all heinous."

Further details may be read in the book quoted from, which would  scarcely come well in these
pages, though quite appropriate to  the most interesting work in which they appear. From the
whole,  it is only too clear that the class of people referred to is  profoundly immoral and
corrupt, their very poverty only  hindering them from indulging in an excess of libertinism.

On the other hand, when Mr. Mayhew speaks of the street Irish in  London, he is most emphatic
in his praise of the purity of the  women in particular, and the care of the parents in general
to  preserve the virtue of their daughters, in the midst of the  frightful corruption ever
under their eyes. The only remark he  passes of a disparaging character is the following:

"I may here observe"--referring to the statement that Irish  parents will not expose their
daughters to the risk of what they  consider corrupt influences--"that, when a young Irish
woman  does break through the pale of chastity, she often becomes, as  I was assured, one of
the most violent and depraved of, perhaps,  the most depraved class."

It is evident, from the mere form in which this phrase is put,  that such a thing is of very
rare occurrence, and that the  violence and depravity spoken of offer all the stronger contrast
to the general purity of the whole class, and are merely the  result of the open and unreserved
character of the race.

But the whole world knows that chastity is the rule, and perhaps  the most special virtue of
the Irish, a fact which their worst  enemies have been compelled to confess. In this same work
of Mr.  Mayhew's a still more surprising fact than the last--for that is  acknowledged by all--is
brought into astonishing prominence; a  fact opposed to the general opinion of their friends
even, and  yet supported by incontrovertible evidence. It relates to  another contrast between
the English and Irish costermongers on  the score of temperance.

III. The result arrived at by his inquiries among liquor-dealers  in that part of London inhabited
by about equal numbers of both  nationalities, Mr. Mayhew gives us as twenty to one in favor
of  the Irish with respect to the consumption of liquor. In most  "independent," that is to
say, "not impoverished" Irish families, water is the only beverage at dinner, with punch afterward;
and  estimating the number of teetotallers, among the English at  three hundred, there are
six hundred among the Irish, who  constitute, it may be remembered, only one-third of the whole
costermonger class, and those Irish teetotallers, having taken  the pledge under the sanction
of their priests, look upon it as  a religious observance and keep it rigidly. The number of
Irish  teetotallers has been considerably increased since Mr. Mayhew  made his returns, in
consequence of the energetic crusade  entered upon against drink by the zealous London clergy,
under  the powerful lead of Archbishop Manning.

It is true that an innkeeper told Mr. Mayhew that "he would  rather have twenty poor Englishmen
drunk in his tap-room than a  couple of poor Irishmen, who will quarrel with anybody, and 
sometimes clear the room." But this remark, if it shows any  thing, shows only how and why
the Irish have obtained that  reputation of being a nation of drunkards, which is slanderous
and false.

IV. Yet another, and perhaps as surprising a result as any, is  the contrast between both classes
of people with respect to  economy and foresight: The English street-sellers are found  everywhere
spending all their income in the satisfaction often  of brutish appetites; the Irish, on the
contrary, save their  money, either for the purpose of transmitting it to their poor  relatives
in Ireland, or bringing up their children properly, or- -if they are young--to provide for
their marriage-expenses and  home. Such cares as these never seem to afflict the English  costermonger.
So strongly did Mr. Mayhew find these  characteristics marked among the Irish, that he is at
times  inclined to accuse them of carrying them too far, even to the  display of a sordid and
parsimonious spirit. According to him,  they apply to the various "unions," or to the parish,
even when  they have money, or sometimes go with wretched food, dwelling,  or clothing, in
order to have a small fund laid by, in case of  any emergency arising.

But the general result of his observations is clear: that the  Irish are most provident and
far-seeing; a surprising statement,  doubtless, to the generality of Mr. Mayhew's readers,
but one  which, after all, only accords with the testimony of many  unexceptionable witnesses
of their life in other countries. And,  if in England, in London especially, they at times
appear sordid  in their economy, is not this the very natural result of the  misery they had
previously endured in their own impoverished  land, and therefore a proof that, at least, they
have profited  by the terrible ordeals through which they were compelled to  pass?

We have spoken only of the Irish in London; the same facts are  most probably true of them
in all the large cities of Great  Britain. Unfortunately, Mr. Mayhew's most interesting work
has  found no imitators in other parts of the kingdom. F. Perraud's  remarks, however, in his
"Ireland under English Rule," extend  almost over the whole country.

After giving his own experience, and that of many others whom he  had consulted, or whose works
he had read; after having set  forth the dangers which beset the Irish in that (to them) "most
foreign country"--England--and also the success which had  attended the labors of many proselytizing
agents among them, and  even in some cases the progress of immorality in their midst  resulting
from the innumerable seductions to which they were  exposed, a success and a progress which
Mr. Mayhew's personal  observation would lead us to think the good father has  exaggerated,
he concludes as follows:

"We must not overlook the fact that the Irish emigration to  England and Scotland produces
in many individual cases results  which cannot be too deeply deplored.

"But there, also, as well as in America and Australia, through  the economy of an admirable
providence, God makes use of those  Irish immigrants for the propagation and extension of the
Catholic faith in the midst of English and Scotch Protestantism.  What progress has not the
Catholic religion made within the last  thirty years in England? And might not the Catholics
say to  their separated brethren what Tertullian said to the Caesars of  the third century:
'Our religion is but of yesterday; and behold, we fill your towns, your councils, your camps,
your tribes,  your decuriae, the palace, the senate, the forum . . . . You  have persecuted
us during centuries, and behold, we spring up  afresh from the blood of martyrs!'

"At the beginning of the reign of George III., England and  Scotland scarcely contained sixty
thousand Catholics who had  remained true to the faith of their fathers. Their number in  1821
was, according to the official census, five hundred  thousand. In 1842, they were estimated
at from two million to  two million five hundred thousand. At present (1864) they number  nearly
four million, and of this total amount the single city of  London figures for more than two
hundred and fifty thousand."

In a note he adds the following figures, furnished him by Dr.  Grant, the late Bishop of Southwark:

                       Total No. of Catholics.      No. of Irish.
Manchester  . . . . . . . . . . . 80,000  . . . . . . 60,000
Liverpool   . . . . . . . . . .  130,000  . . . . . . 85,000 
Birmingham  . . . . . . . . . . . 30,000  . . . . . . 20,000
Preston	. . . . . . . . . . . . . 24,000  . . . . . .  4,300
Wigan       . . . . . . . . . . . 18,000  . . . . . .  6,000
Bolton      . . . . . . . . . . . 12,000  . . . . . .  4,000
St. Helen's (Lancashire)  . . . . 10,000  . . . . . .  6,000
Edinburgh   . . . . . . . . . . . 50,000  . . . . . . 35,000
Glasgow     . . . . . . . . . .  127,000  . . . . . . 90,000

"Finally, we must not forget that about one-half the army and  navy is composed of Irish Catholics.

"In 1792 England and Wales counted no more than thirty-five  chapels; in 1840 the number amounted
to five hundred, among  which were vast and splendid churches, such as St. George's,  Southwark,
and the Birmingham Cathedral. At present (1864) the  number is nearly one thousand.

"In connection with the movement of individual conversions,  which yearly brings within our
ranks from those of Protestantism  the most upright, the sincerest, the best-disposed souls,
the  Irish immigration in England is then destined to play an  important part in the so desirable
return of that great island  to the faith which she received in the sixth century from St.
Gregory the Great and St. Austin of Canterbury," and, let us add, from Aidan and his Irish
monks of Lindisfarne and Iona, as  Montalembert has shown.

If we examine closely the figures just furnished by F. Perraud,  and consider that the number
of Catholics in Great Britain was  only five hundred thousand in 1821, which, following his
calculation, mounted to four million in 1864, if we look closely  into the gradations of the
increase marked in the various  censuses taken between those dates, we shall find that the
Irish  immigration has indeed played a most important part in the  return of England toward
Catholicity. We are surprised to find  that he seems to estimate the number of Irish in England
at only  one million; there can be no doubt that they and their offspring  compose the majority
of Catholics there, and that many of the  Englishmen who come back to the true faith are induced
by their  example and influence, particularly among the lower orders, and  that the real work
of the conversion of the English nation rests  in the hands of the Irish immigrants. Mr. Mayhew
has informed us  of the disposition of the English costermongers on religious matters.

We have now examined the three great waves which bore the Irish  to foreign countries; the
lesser streamlets, which wandered away  into other English colonies, may be dismissed, as to
trace and  follow up their course would involve more time and trouble than  they really call
for. We now see the Irish race disseminated in  large groups over many and vast territories;
and, although the  home population has been considerably diminished by that great  exodus,
and is now reduced to about five millions, nevertheless,  to count them as they are dispersed
throughout the world, their  number is far higher than it has ever been before; and we now
proceed to offer some considerations tending to show the effects  of that vast emigration on
the resurrection of the race, and on  the future progress of the country from which the race comes.

First, then, emigration has given Ireland and Irishmen an  importance in the eyes of the world
which they and it would  never have acquired unless that emigration had taken place; so  that
England, on whom in a great measure their future fate  depends, is now compelled to respect
and render them justice;  and justice is all that is wanting to bring about their complete
resurrection.

In order to form a true idea on this point, it is necessary to  consider them in their twofold
aspect, as emigrants to the  United States, residing under and citizens of a government  distinct
from that of England; and, secondly, in countries which  are under the control of Great Britain,
one of these being  England itself.

In the Union they become for the greater part citizens of the  country which they have made
their home, and the first condition  necessary for the obtaining of this right of citizenship
is the  renunciation of all allegiance to their former English rulers.  The readiness and joy
even with which they perform this task  need no mention. But, as Christians, the new obligations
under  which they bind themselves involve something more than the mere  oath of allegiance;
the spirit no less than the letter of the  oath prescribes that they acknowledge no other country
as theirs  than that which offered them a refuge, and consequently, by the  very fact of becoming
American citizens, they cease to be  Irishmen.

But their oath does not bind them to forget their former country, as little as it forbids them
to benefit it as far as lawfully  lies in their power. Far otherwise. Their new allegiance
would  indeed be a poor thing if, in its very conception, it could only  bind hearts so cold
as to renounce at once all affection for the  land of their birth, and banish in a day memories
that the day  before were sacred. This is not required of them; and, were it,  they could never
so understand their allegiance. They remain,  and justly, firmly attached to Ireland, and look
anxiously for  any lawful occasion on which they may manifest their affection  by their acts.

Meanwhile, in their new country, position, influence, wealth,  consideration, often fall to
their lot; their numbers swell, and  they become an important factor in the republic. Something
of  the power wielded by the great nation of which they are now  citizens attaches to them,
and shows them to the astonished gaze  of England under a totally new and unexpected aspect.
In war,  the effect is most telling, and, even so far back as 1812, the  part played by "saucy
Jack" Barry, for instance, already gave  rise to very grave considerations and forebodings
on the part of  British statesmen. But, even in time of peace, the high position  held by many
Irishmen in the United States, and the aggregate  voice of a powerful party, where every tongue
has a vote, cannot  fail to tell advantageously on questions referring to their  former country.

Can it be imagined that this exercises no influence on the  treatment of Ireland by the ruling
power? To afford a true  conception of the alteration brought about by Irish emigration,  suppose
for an instant the ruling power using again its old  recklessness in abusing Ireland--not that
we imagine the English  statesmen of to-day capable of such a thing and anxious to  restore
what, happily, has passed away forever--but merely to  show the utter impossibility of such
a contingency again arising, suppose one of the old penal laws to be again enacted and  sanctioned
by a British sovereign, what would the effect be on  the multitude of Irishmen now living in
America? What,  independently of the Irish, would be the effect on all the  organs, worthy
of the name, of public opinion in America? How  would the great majority of the members, not
of Congress only,  but of the Legislature of each State, speak? Public opanion is  now the
ruler of the world, and when public opinion declares  against a flagrant and crying injustice,
its voice must be heard, its mandate obeyed, and lawlessness cease. This extreme and, as  we
believe, impossible example, is merely adduced as a proof of  the advantage which Ireland has
reaped from the dispersion of  her scattered children--an advantage falling back on her own
head, in return, perhaps, for the mission they are working.

But, over and above the supposition of such an extreme case,  there is surely a silent power
in the mere standing of millions  of free men who would resent, as done to themselves, a  recurrence
of an attack on their old country. And there are,  beyond question, three millions of former
Irishmen, citizens to- day of the United States, on whom the glance of many an English  statesman,
with any just pretension to the name, must fall.  Therefore do we say that now England must
respect Ireland.

That respect is daily heightened by the greater comfort and  easier circumstances, though still
far too wretched on the whole, of the Irish at home, which have been mainly brought about by
the help received from their exiled countrymen. As was seen, the  old policy of their oppressors
had for chief object the  pauperization of the country, and, as was also seen, that policy
was eminently successful. We know how deeply the effects of that  former policy are still felt,
and how far from completion still  is justice in that regard; how they still complain, and
with  only too much reason, of many laws which are as so many gyves  still binding them down
in their old degradation; but, of this,  the following chapter will speak.

Yet, it is undeniable that their situation is considerably  improved, and that the excessive
sufferings which formerly  seemed their privilege, are scarcely possible in our days. This
change in their circumstances for the better may be ascribed to  a variety of causes, one of
which, we acknowledge, has been the  repairing of many previous injustices. But we must acknowledge
also that the main lever in a nation's resurrection, once the  ground is cleared round about--her
treasury--has, as far as  Ireland is concerned, been chiefly replenished from abroad.  Absentee
landlords still drain the country; but the money which  has gone into it has been certainly
owing greatly to the immense  sums transmitted yearly from America by the exiles, all of which
has certainly not returned to the place from which it went out.  It is impossible to estimate
the amount which was kept in  Ireland and that which floated back, but the balance must be
considerably on the side of what remained, as the distress at  home was so great, and in millions
of instances immediate relief  came from the distant friends who had acquired a competency
in  their new country, and, knowing the dire distress of their  relatives at home, sent generally
what they could spare, by the  speediest means at their command.

There is no doubt that thousands of families have thus been  benefited by that first sad emigration
of their friends, and  that the visible improvement in the condition of the Irish at  home
is in a great measure due to it. We hear, moreover, that  the working of the new "Encumbered
Estates Court " has already  placed in the hands of native Irishmen many parcels of the lands
of their fathers, and probably many of the ample estates  belonging to what was the Irish Church
Establishment, which are  to be sold, will find their way back in the same manner.

The Irish are thus being slowly reinstated in possession of  their own soil, and, that once
accomplished, the respect of  England is secured--respectability in England being in its  essence
equivalent to real estate.

Thus is the uprising of the nation being gradually, silently,  but surely brought about by
the emigration to the United States;  and this effect is considerably heightened when the emigration
to countries under English control is taken into consideration--  Canada, Australia, England
itself.

In those places the same results followed which we have just  witnessed in the United States,
but another and far greater  result remains for them. Not only did they slowly aid in  awakening
the respect for their countrymen at home in the  English breast by their own rising importance
and improved  condition, but in Canada and Australia they possess a privilege  which, in the
British Isles, is theirs only in theory, but  abroad becomes a very powerful fact.

Ever since the Union of 1800, the Irish are supposed to form a  part and parcel of the empire
at home, and to have fair  representation of their native country in the members they  return
to the Imperial Parliament. But it is well known that the  Irish influence in that Parliament
is almost null, and that  their presence there frequently is productive of no other result
than to countenance laws injurious to their own country. Does,  can Ireland hope to derive
any political or social benefit from  her representatives in London beyond whatever may accrue
to her  from their vain remonstrances and ineffective speeches? But in  the colonial Parliaments
the case is very different.

It is not our desire to be understood as saying that Irishmen,  by meddling with politics,
can effect a certain improvement in  their condition and that of their country, beyond giving
tokens  of the life which is in them. We believe, on the contrary, that  too great an eagerness
in such pursuits has injured them on many  occasions; and they ought to beware of flattering
themselves  that they are rising because their votes are clamored for, and  they themselves
exhorted to enter into the contest as fierce  partisans. This, too often, leads them into making
themselves  the mere tools of shrewd men.

But, in the colonies, they muster in considerable force, and,  with prudence and sagacity,
may have their desires and measures  fairly considered and conceded; for, unfortunately, the
style of  measures fair and favorable to them as Irishmen and Catholics,  is completely at
variance with that of those opposed to them,  whom, go where they will, they encounter, and
always in the same  form. In Ireland, they are at liberty, apparently, to do the  same by reason
of their superiority in point of numbers; the  result of the late Galway elections proves what
a farce is this  show of liberty, and even the members whom they would and do  sometimes elect
possess a very feeble influence, or none, in  what is called the Imperial Parliament. But,
in the colonies, if  they, as electors, outnumber their political opponents, they can  and
must return the majority to the House of Representatives and  of officers to the various departments
of the colonial  administration. Such is the law of election in really  representative governments
which are truly free; the majority of  electors returns the majority to the government; and
rightly so.  Of course, there is room here, particularly where the majority  happens to be
Irish, for a vast quantity of frothy bluster about  drilled and intimidated voters, and all
that sort of thing. With  that we have no concern at present, and merely remark en passant
that it is a pity a little more of it was not wasted on the  recent Galway elections, already
alluded to, on both sides; and  for the rest, that the world has not yet been apprised of Irish
majorities in the Australian Parliament abusing their power by  either accidental or systematic
misrule; and it may, therefore,  be safely conceded that, on the whole, the government has
rested  in safe hands. However, what concerns us at present is the state  of Canada and Australia,
where, among the highest public  dignitaries, are found men who are Irish, not simply by birth,
but in feeling and in truth. And the conclusion which we wish to  draw from that fact is, that
Ireland is greatly benefited by the  high positions which her sons assume in those distant
colonies;  and probably no one will be rash enough to deny or controvert in  any way this point.

The truth is, that by emigration Ireland has suddenly expanded  into vast regions formerly
ignorant of her name; regions which  swell the power and wealth of England, and which are destined
to  play a very important part in her future history. In these  districts Irishmen have found
a new country; something of the  ubiquity of the English belongs to them, and the influence,
power, and weight, thus thrown into their hands, need no further  comment. To show this in
extenso would be only to travel over  ground already trodden in previous pages, enumerating
the  various countries they have touched upon in their Exodus. Thus  have our seemingly long
digressions had a very direct object in  view, and served powerfully to solve our original
question. We  may now see that the resurrection of Ireland was intimately  involved in the
emigration of her children; that much of what  has already taken place to aid in that resurrection
may be  ascribed to this emigration, and that much brighter days are yet  in store for the
nation, resulting mainly from this constant and  powerful cause. Let no one, then, lament the
perseverance of  those hardy wanderers who, though their country has already been  depleted
by millions, still leave her to the figure of seventy  thousand annually. It seems that in
Ireland much surprise is  expressed at the movement never ceasing. Providence will end it 
in its own good time; if God still allows it, it is surely for  the accomplishment of his own
mighty and benevolent designs.

To conclude, then, this long chapter, there is only one question  to be put, which demands
a few words, but words, in our opinion  at least, of vast importance, and which we would give
all that  is ours to give, to see promptly and energetically attended to:  Has Ireland profited
by this so-often mentioned emigration to  the extent she should have profited? And what ought
Irishmen to  do in order to increase the advantages derived from it?

We must confess that, up to the present, the benefit is far from  what it ought to have been,
and the cause of this lies in want  of organization and association. They have seemed to let
God  work for them without any cooperation on their part; for God's,  as we saw, was the plan,
and he forced them, as it were, to  carry out his design. They went at the work blindly, merely
following the impulse of circumstances, with no preparatory  organization, and less still of
association. And even now, when  they are spread out over such vast territories in such mighty
multitudes, as yet they have given no sign of the least desire  of attempting even something
like a combined effort to  accelerate the work of Providence. The only signs of life so far
given have been violent and spasmodic, directly opposed to the  genius of the race, which,
as we have endeavored to prove, has  nothing revolutionary in its character, and is not given
to dark  plots and godless conspiracies.

Unfortunately, also, they do not seem naturally adapted to a  spirit of steady and long-continued
or systematic association.  In this, chiefly, does their race differ from the Scandinavian
stock, which is grafted on system, combination, and steadiness,  in pursuit of the object in hand.

