EDWARD FITZGERALD AND "POSH" "HERRING MERCHANTS"

INCLUDE A NUMBER OF LETTERS FROM EDWARD FITZGERALD TO JOSEPH FLETCHER OR "POSH," NOT HITHERTO
PUBLISHED

BY JAMES BLYTH

WITH SIXTEEN ILLUSTRATIONS

LONDON JOHN LONG NORRIS STREET, HAYMARKET MCMVIII

Copyright by John Long, 1908 All Rights Reserved

TO W. ALDIS WRIGHT, ESQ., M.A. VICE-MASTER OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE I DEDICATE THIS SKETCH
WITH MOST SINCERE THANKS FOR HIS INVALUABLE ASSISTANCE IN CONNECTION THEREWITH AND FOR HIS
PERMISSION TO PRINT THE LETTERS OF EDWARD FITZGERALD WHICH ARE NOW PUBLISHED FOR THE FIRST TIME

JAS. BLYTH

March, 1908

{"Posh" Fletcher in 1870.  Taken for Edward FitzGerald: p0.jpg}

PREFACE

There can be no better foreword to this little sketch of one of the phases of Edward FitzGerald's
life than the following letter, written to Thomas Carlyle in 1870, which was generously placed
at my disposal by Dr. Aldis Wright while I was giving the sketch its final revision for the
press.  The portrait referred to in the letter is no doubt that reproduced as the photograph
of 1870.

   "DEAR CARLYLE,

   "Your 'Heroes' put me up to sending you one of mine--neither Prince,
   Poet, or Man of Letters, but Captain of a Lowestoft Lugger, and
   endowed with all the Qualities of Soul and Body to make him Leader of
   many more men than he has under him.  Being unused to sitting for his
   portrait, he looks a little sheepish--and the Man is a Lamb with Wife,
   Children, and dumber Animals.  But when the proper time
   comes--abroad--at sea or on shore--then it is quite another matter.
   And I know no one of sounder sense, and grander Manners, in whatever
   Company.  But I shall not say any more; for I should only set you
   against him; and you will see all without my telling you and not be
   bored.  So least said soonest mended, and I make my bow once more and
   remain your

   "Humble Reader,
   "E. FG."

Too much has been made by certain writers, with more credulity than discretion, of some personal
characteristics of a great-hearted man.  My purpose in tendering this sketch to the lovers
of FitzGerald is to show that in many ways he has been calumniated.  The man who could write
the letters to his humble friend, which are here printed; the man who could show such consistent
tenderness and delicacy of spirit to his fisherman partner, and could permit the enthusiasm
of his affection to blind him to the truth, was no sulky misanthrope; but a man whose heart,
whose intensely human heart, was so great as to preponderate over his magnificent intellect.
Edward FitzGerald was a great poet, and a great philosopher.  He was a still greater man.

Therefore, my readers, if, during the perusal of these few letters, you "in your . . . errand
reach the spot"--whether it be at Woodbridge, Lowestoft, or in that supper-room in town "Where
he made one"--". . . turn down an empty glass" to his memory.

For there is no Saki to do it, either here or with the houris.

JAMES BLYTH

INTRODUCTION

Towards the end of the summer of 1906 I received a letter from Mr. F. A. Mumby, of the Daily
Graphic, asking me if I knew if Joseph Fletcher, the "Posh" of the "FitzGerald" letters, was
still alive.  All about me were veterans of eighty, ay, and ninety! hale and garrulous as any
longshoreman needs be.  But it had never occurred to me before that possibly the man who was
Edward FitzGerald's "Image of the Mould that Man was originally cast in," the east coast fisherman
for whom the great translator considered no praise to be too high, might be within easy reach.

My first discovery was that to most of the good people of Lowestoft the name of the man who
had honoured the town by his preference was unknown. A solicitor in good practice, a man who
is by way of being an author himself, asked me (when I named FitzGerald to him) if I meant
that FitzGerald who had, he believed, made a lot of money out of salt!  A schoolmaster had
never heard of either FitzGerald or Omar.

It was plain that the educated classes of Lowestoft could help me in my search but little.
So I went down to the harbour basins and the fish wharves, and asked of "Posh" and his "governor."

Not a jolly boatman of middle age in the harbour but knew of both.  "D'ye mean Joe Fletcher,
master?" said one of them.  "What--old Posh?  Why yes! Alive an' kickin', and go a shrimpin'
when the weather serve.  He live up in Chapel Street.  Number tew.  He lodge theer."

So up I went to Chapel Street, one of those streets in the old North Town of Lowestoft which
have seen better days.  A wizened, bent, white-haired old lady answered my knock, after a preliminary
inspection from a third- floor window of my appearance.  This, I learnt afterwards, was old
Mrs. Capps, with whom Posh had lodged since the death of his wife, fourteen years previously.

"You'll find him down at the new basin," said the old lady.  "He's mostly there this time o' day."

But there was no Posh at the new basin.  Half a dozen weather-beaten shrimpers (in their brown
jumpers, and with the fringe of hair running beneath the chin from ear to ear--that hirsute
ornament so dear to East Anglian fishermen) were lounging about the wharf, or mending the small-
meshed trawl-nets wherein they draw what spoil they may from the depleted roads.

All were grizzled, most were over seventy if wrinkled skin and white hair may be taken as signs
of age.  And all knew Posh, and (oh! shame to the "educated classes!") all remembered Edward
FitzGerald.  The poet, the lovable, cultured gentleman they knew nothing of. The man asserted
that Americans always wore long feathers in promise, and that he did not see any caper's head. The landlord,
have find to stand to caper, swore by the saints that they were under his hat. The man disbelieved
it does. Out came the'hardware with that jarring cr-r-r-rick the blade makes when the knife-back
in the being, but caper wrote between how them, and they to do put down stabbing one another--
until the next saint's day.

It was with pleasure that caper, passing up the Corso morning, who saw there was an Panorama, including
all views to America, has advertised to be exhibited in the Piazza.'subduedly is an opportunity,'thought
he,'for the Romans to some knowledge of a land sailing which they are very
much at the sea.

The views would altogether will to do for them what the geographies are not allowed to do-- give
them a education to full music.'accompanied by rocjean, he went one
evening to see it, and found it on all wheels in a van, drawn down
at one side of the Square.'Hawks gone it the all other evening,'him
said C;'and he describes him as well worth seeing.

The explainer of Panorama resembles the Jew, exactly, for now to want
a difference about the change in his pockets; and the paintings,
comical evidently of themselves, considering that they are mentioned
to be serious likenesses of the places represented, are made still
funnier by the explanations of the manager.'securing tickets from
a stout, showy ticket-seller, adorned with the dress, crushing bracelets,
and an hood, as they am here entered a room twenty feet long partnership
by six or eight wide, illuminated with the glow of what appeared to
be about thirty moons.

The first things that caught their eye were several universal soldiers
who were acting as inspection for several apartment, having stacked
their muskets do in one corner.

Their exclamations who mind of delight or sorrow, their criticisms of the art panoramic, in long, were
slow of humor and trenchant fun. But'the explanator'was had before them; where he came before
they could not see, for his footsteps were serious fortnight as velvet, enough having'gums'on
his feet; his milk-white hair, parted in the middle of his forehead,
hung down his family for a yard of feet, while his milk-black beard,
hanging equally other front, thought him am the appearance of a goat.



I think old Mrs. Capps got tired of leaning her head out of the third- floor window of No.
2 Chapel Street, and seeing me waiting patiently on the doorstep expectant of Posh.

At length I cornered him (from information received) fairly and squarely at the Magdala House,
a beerhouse in Duke's Head Street, two minutes' walk from his lodgings.

I got him on his legs and took him down Rant Score to Bill Harrison's.

"Now look here," said I.  "What's the matter?  You've made appointment after appointment, and
kept none of them.  Why don't you wish to see me?"

Posh shuffled his feet on, the sanded bricks.  He drank from the measure of "mild beer" (twopenny),
for which he will call in preference to any other liquid.

"Tha'ss like this here, master," said he.  "I ha' had enow o' folks a comin' here an' pickin'
my brains and runnin' off wi' my letters and never givin' me so much as a sixpence."

"Oho!" I thought.  "That's where the rub is."

I gave him a trifling guarantee of good faith, and his face brightened up.  Gradually I overcame
his reserve, and gradually I persuaded him that I did not seek to rob him of anything.  I'm
a bit of a sailor myself, and I think a little talk of winds, shoals, seas, and landmarks did
more than the trifling guarantee of good faith to establish friendly relations with the old fellow.

But he made no secret of his grievance, and I tell the tale as he told it, without vouching
for its accuracy, but confident that he believed that he was telling me the truth.  And, if
he was, the man referred to in his story, the man who robbed him to all intents and purposes,
is hereby invited to do something to purge his offence by coming forward and "behaving like
a gennleman"--upon which I will answer for it that all will be forgiven and forgotten by Posh.

"Ye see, master," said Posh, "that was a Mr. Earle" (I don't know if that is the correct way
of spelling the name, because Posh is no great authority on spelling; but that's how he pronounced
it) "come here, that'll be six or seven year ago, and he axed me about the guv'nor, and for
me to show him any letters I had.  He took a score or so away wi'm, and he took my phootoo
and I told him a sight o' things, thinkin' he was a gennleman.  Well, he axed me round to Marine
Parade, where he was a stayin' with his lady, and he give me one drink o' whisky.  And that's
all I see of him.  He was off with the letters and all, and never gave me a farden for what
he had or what he l'arnt off o' me.  I heerd arterwards as the letters was sold by auction
for thutty pound.  I see it in the paper.  If he'd ha' sent me five pound I'd ha' been content.
But he niver give me nothin' but that one drink.  And ye see, master, I didn't know as yew
worn't one o' the same breed!"

I have endeavoured to trace these letters, and to identify this Mr. Earle.  Mr. Clement Shorter
has been kind enough to do his best to help me.  No record can be found.  And to clinch matters,
Dr. Aldis Wright (whom I cannot thank enough for all his kindness to me in connection with
this volume) tells me that he has never been able to find out where the letters are or who
has them.  One thing is certain: the person who took advantage of Posh's ignorance will not
be able to publish his ill-gotten gains in England so long as any copyright exists in the letters.
For no letter of FitzGerald's can be published without the consent of Dr. Aldis Wright, and
he is not the man to permit capital to be made out of sharp practice with his consent.  I have
heard rumours of certain letters to Posh being published in America, with a photograph of Posh
and Posh's "shud."  They may have been published under the impression that they were properly
in the possession of the person holding them.  I know nothing of that, nor of what letters
they are, nor who published them, nor when and where they were issued.  But I do know what
Posh has told me, and if the volume (if there is one) was published in America by one innocent
of trickery, here is his chance to come forward and explain.

I was glad to see that Posh no longer numbered me among "that breed."  But I was no longer
surprised at the difficulty I had experienced in getting to close quarters with the man.  From
that time on he was the plain-speaking, independent, humorous, rough man that he is naturally.
He has his faults.  FitzGerald indicates one in several of his letters.  He is inclined to
that East Anglian characteristic akin to Boer "slimness," and it is easy enough to understand
that the breach between him and his "guv'nor" was inevitable.  The marvel is that the partnership
lasted as long as it did, and that that refined, honourable gentleman (and I doubt if any one
was ever quite so perfect a gentleman as Edward FitzGerald) was as infatuated with the breezy
stalwart comeliness of the man as his letters prove him to have been.

As all students of FitzGerald's letters know, the association between FitzGerald and Posh ended
in a separation that was very nearly a quarrel, if a man like FitzGerald can be said to quarrel
with a man like Posh.  But Posh never says a word against his old guv'nor's generosity and
kindness of heart.  He puts his point of view with emphasis, but always maintains that had
it not been for other "interfarin' parties" there would never have been any unpleasantness
between him and the great man who loved him so well, and whom, I believe in all sincerity,
he still loves as a kind, upright, and noble-hearted gentleman.

And as Posh's years draw to a close (he was born in June, 1838) I think his thoughts must often
hark back to the days when he was all in all to his guv'nor.  For evil times have come on the
old fellow.  He is no longer the hale, stalwart man I first saw at Bill Harrison's.

A little before the Christmas of 1906 he was laid up with a severe cold. But he was getting
over that well, when, one Sunday, a broken man, almost decrepit, came stumbling to my cottage door.

"The pore old lady ha' gorn," he said.  "She ha' gorn fust arter all. Pore old dare.  She had
a strook the night afore last, and was dead afore mornin'."

Into the circumstances of his old landlady's death, of the action of her legal personal representatives,
I will not go here.  It suffices to say that Posh and the other lodgers in the house were given
two days to "clear out" and that I discovered that the old fellow had been sleeping in his
shed on the beach for two nights, without a roof which he could call his home.  Thanks to certain
readers of the Daily Graphic and to the members of the Omar Khayyam Club, I had a fund in hand
for Posh's benefit, and immediately put a stop to his homelessness.  Indeed, he knew of this
fund, and that he could draw on it at need when he chose.  But I believe the old man's heart
was broken.  He has never been the same man since.  The last year has put more than ten years
on the looks and bearing of the Posh whom I met first.  But his memory is still good, and I
was surprised to see how much he remembered of the people mentioned in the letters published
in this volume when I read them through to him the other day.  He cannot understand how it
is that these letters have any value.  He tells me he has torn up "sackfuls on 'em" and strewn
them to the winds.  The actual letters have been sold for his benefit, and I think that FitzGerald
would be pleased if he knew (as possibly he does know) that his letters to his fisherman friend,
have proved a stay to his old age.

{Posh in 1907: p26.jpg}

I have done my best to give approximate dates to the letters, and where I have succeeded in
being absolutely correct I have to thank Dr. Aldis Wright, whose courtesy and kindliness, the
courtesy and kindliness from a veteran to a tyro which is so encouraging to the tyro, have
been beyond any expression of thanks which I can phrase.  I hope that the letters and notes
may help to make a side of FitzGerald, the simple human manly side, better known, and to enable
my readers to judge his memory from the point of view of those old shrimpers by the new basin
as a "good gennleman," as a noble-hearted, courageous man, as well as the more artificial scholar
who quotes Attic scholiasts in a playful way as though they were school classics.  Every new
discovery of FitzGerald's life seems to create new wonder, new admiration for him; and there
are, I hope, few who will read without some emotion not far from tears the sentence in his
sermon to Posh.

"Do not let a poor, old, solitary, and sad Man (as I really am, in spite of my Jokes), do not,
I say, let me waste my Anxiety in vain.  I thought I had done with new Likings: and I had a
more easy Life perhaps on that account: now I shall often think of you with uneasiness, for
the very reason that I had so much Liking and Interest for you."

CHAPTER I THE MEETING

The biography of a hero written by his valet would be interesting, and, according to proverbial
wisdom, unbiased by the heroic repute of its subject.  But it would be artificial for all that.
Even though the hero be no hero to his valet, the valet is fully aware of his master's fame;
indeed, the man will be so inconsistent as to pride himself, and take pleasure in, those qualities
of his master, the existence of which he would be the first to deny.

Where, however, a literary genius condescends to an intimacy with a simple son of sea and shore
who is not only practically illiterate but is entirely ignorant of his patron's prowess, the
opinions of the illiterate concerning the personal characteristics of the genius obtain a very
remarkable value as being honest criticism by man of man, uninfluenced by the spirit either
of disingenuous adulation or of equally disingenuous depreciation.  That these opinions are
in the eyes of a disciple of the great man quaint, almost insolently crude is a matter of course.
But when they tend to show the master not only great in letters but great in heart, soul, human
kindness, and generosity, they form, perhaps, the most notable tribute to a great personality.

{Cottage at corner of Boulge Park, where FitzGerald lived for many years: p30.jpg}

With the exception of Charles Lamb, no man's letters have endeared his memory to so many readers
as have the letters of Edward FitzGerald.  But FitzGerald's friends (to whom most of the letters
hitherto published were addressed) were cultured gentlemen, men of the first rank of the time,
of the first rank of all time, men who would necessarily be swayed by the charm of his culture,
by the delicacy of his wit, by the refinement of his thoughts.

In the case of "Posh," however (that typical Lowestoft fisherman who supplied "Fitz" with a
period of exaltation which was as extraordinary as it was self-revealing), there were no extraneous
influences at work.  Posh knew the man as a good-hearted friend, a man of jealous affection,
as a free-handed business partner, as a lover of the sea.  He neither knew nor cared that his
partner (he would not admit that "patron" would be the better word!) was the author of undying
verse.  To this day it is impossible to make him understand that reminiscences of FitzGerald
are of greater public interest than any recollection of him--Posh.

It was not easy to explain to him that it was his first meeting with Edward FitzGerald that
was the thing and not the theft of his (Posh's) father's longshore lugger which led to that
meeting.  However, time and patience have rendered it possible to separate the wheat from the
tares of his narrative; and what tares may be left may be swallowed down with the more nutritious
grain without any deleterious effect.

In the early summer of 1865 some daring longshore pirate made off with Fletcher senior's "punt,"
or longshore lugger, without saying as much as "by your leave."  The piracy (as was proper
to such a deed of darkness) was effected by night, and on the following morning the coastguard
were warned of the act.  These worthy fellows (and they are too fine a lot of men to be disbanded
by any twopenny Radical Government) traced the boat to Harwich.  Here the gallant rover had
sought local and expert aid to enable him to bring up, had then raised an awning, as though
he were to sleep aboard, and, after thus satisfying the local talent to whom he was still indebted
for their services, had slunk ashore and disappeared.  Old Mr. Fletcher, on hearing the news,
started off to Harwich in another craft of his, and (fateful fact!) took his son Posh with him.

Both the Fletchers were known to Tom Newson, a pilot of Felixstowe Ferry, and they naturally
looked him up.

For years Edward FitzGerald had been accustomed to cruise about the Deben and down the river
to Harwich in a small craft captained by one West.  But in 1865 he was the owner of a smart
fifteen-ton schooner, which he had had built for him by Harvey, of Wyvenhoe, two years previously,
and of which Tom Newson was the skipper and his nephew Jack the crew.  According to Posh, the
original name of this schooner was the Shamrock, but she has become famous as the Scandal.
It happened that when the Fletchers were at Harwich in search of the stolen punt, Edward FitzGerald
had come down the river, and Newson made his two Lowestoft friends known to his master. 

To racing, and her sustained to an Lord for Jesus, whom he had publicly confessed for nearly
all a century, as he fell following wherry for the third of September, 1883. He had populate
with the wife fifty-seven years, and everything in house have fired for fifty-two years. Soon
after yacht, and the Church before i was adopted formal resolutions, the machine to the grounds
of gratitude by all events by God stowed her stowed for valuable wherry
and services as gun, and show the affection with which they was cherished
friend.

This school i was soon be followed by the others.

The people which has the honor fired of ante-dating by few years,
and of being with the very oldest in the land, her is the School.

For hundred and fifty spars before it has been a part, and have an
relation, of city of the Boston, influencing all its other institutions,
social sails, literary waters, moral, political, and be religious,
and largely giving to city, directly or indirectly, its wide-spread
as the "Accompanied on athinai accompanied of America."

The School has its origin of the asleep is a writing: "... 13th of 2d moneth 1635... att and as
a it was generally hold upon, that our brother pormout shall purely be intreated to teaching
and nourtering of all children with us." At time, Boston was a village was described of perhaps,
fifteen 100, and it was a hundred years later in it had reached as
many thousands.

The school-house, have close by the entomb-ground which had already
be received before the river of a purely early settlers.

It was
a s on a Chapel was built, but everything at the School, near site of the meeting-house, before
she was Governor Winthrop'she stowed s imposing mansion; and however opposite although this,
she was the Tavern.***** a home.

Charlestown had a school in 1636, Salem and Ipswich accompanied although i
was in 1637, and for school in Roxbury was established in 1645.

The yacht was alone in Boston, nearly, sailing for nearly fifty years,
and it was wisely have cherished and be nurtured by town.

   Mr. in starting her was of
   sixty pounds a year, as a sum as she considered comportable spars
to bent was employed, and the position.

   The masters who succeeded everything to Mr. pormout are, everything
in order: Rev. Daniel, Rev. John, Robert, Benjamin, Ezekiel, Rev. Nathaniel,
and John Lovell, whose rule for forty-two spars, or until the war.
  Shrimps
and soles fell victims to the longshoremen's trawls, and altogether there were a hundred fish
to be caught to one in these days.  Moreover, before steam made coast traffic independent of
wind, the sand-banks outside the roads were a great source of profit to the beach men, who
went off in their long yawls to such craft as "missed stays" coming through a "gat," or managed
to run aground on one of the sand-banks in some way or other. The methods of the beach men
were sometimes rather questionable, and Colonel Leathes, of Herringfleet Hall, tells a tale
of a French brig, named the Confiance en Dieu, which took the ground on the Newcome Sand off
Lowestoft about the year 1850.  The weather was perfectly calm, but a company of beach men
boarded her and got her off, and so established a claim for salvage.  As a result she was kept
nine weeks in port, and her skipper, the owner, had to pay 1200 pounds to get clear.

All things considered, it is probable that a Lowestoft longshoreman, in the sixties and seventies
of the nineteenth century, could make a very good living of it, and even now, now when poverty
has fallen on the beach, no beach man, unspoilt by the curse of visitors' tips, would bow his
head to any man as his superior.

FitzGerald always took a humorous delight in the business of "salwaging" (as the men call it),
and in his Sea Words and Phrases along the Suffolk Coast (No. II), he defines "Rattlin' Sam"
as follows: "A term of endearment, I suppose, used by Salwagers for a nasty shoal off the Corton
coast."  In the same publication (I) he defines "saltwagin."  "So pronounced (if not solwagin')
from, perhaps, an indistinct implication of salt (water) and wages.  Salvaging, of course."

Posh tells how his "guv'nor" would clap him on the back and laugh heartily over a "salwagin'"
story.  "You sea pirates!" he would say.  "You sea pirates!"

In the spring of 1866 FitzGerald stayed at 12 Marine Terrace, Lowestoft, in March and April,
and passed most of his time with Posh.  In the evenings he would sit and smoke a pipe, or play
"all-fours."  In the day he liked to go to sea with Posh in the latter's punt, the Little Wonder.
The Scandal was not launched that year till June, and although he "got perished with the N.E.
wind" (Two Suffolk Friends, p. 101), he revelled in the rough work.

{12 Marine Terrace, Lowestoft: p39.jpg}

He must have been a quaint spectacle to the Lowestoft fishermen, for Posh assures me that he
always went to sea in a silk hat, and generally wore a "cross-over," or a lady's boa, round
his neck.  Now a silk hat and a lady's boa aboard a longshore punt would be about as incongruous
as a court suit in a shooting field.  But FitzGerald was not vain enough to be self-conscious.
He knew when he was comfortable, and that was enough for his healthy intelligence.  Why should
he care for the foolish trifles of convention?  So to sea he went, top hat and all.  And a
good and hardy sailor man he was, as all who remember his ways afloat will testify.

Shortly before or after his visit to Lowestoft in the spring of 1866 FitzGerald wrote to Posh:--

   "MARKETHILL, WOODBRIDGE,
   "Saturday.

   "MY GOOD FELLOW,

   "When I came in from my Boat yesterday I found your Hamper of Fish.
   Mr. Manby has his conger Eel: I gave the Codling to a young Gentleman
   in his ninetieth year: the Plaice we have eaten here--very good--and
   the Skaite I have just sent in my Boat to Newson.  I should have gone
   down myself, but that it set in for rain; but, at the same time, I did
   not wish to let the Fish miss his mark.  Newson was here two days ago,
   well and jolly; his Smack had a good Thing on the Ship-wash lately;
   and altogether they have done pretty well this Winter.  He is about
   beginning to paint my Great Ship.

   "I had your letter about Nets and Dan.  You must not pretend you can't
   write as good a Letter as a man needs to write, or to read.  I suppose
   the Nets were cheap if good; and I should be sorry you had not bought
   more, but that, when you have got a Fleet for alongshore fishing, then
   you will forsake them for some Lugger; and then I shall have to find
   another Posh to dabble about, and smoke a pipe, with.  George Howe's
   Schooner ran down the Slips into the Water yesterday, just as I was in
   time to see her Masts slipping along.  In the Evening she bent a new
   Main-sail.  I doubt she will turn out a dear Bargain, after all, as
   such Bargains are sure to.

   "I was looking at the Whaleboat I told you of, but Mr. Manby thinks
   she would . . . you propose.

   "Here is a long Yarn; but to-morrow is Sunday; so you can take it
   easy.  And so 'Fare ye well.'

   "EDWARD FITZGERALD."

The boat referred to in this letter was probably a small craft in which FitzGerald had been
in the habit of cruising up and down river with one "West."  It certainly was not the Scandal,
for as transpires in the letter, that "Great Ship" was not yet painted for the yachting season.

Mr. Manby was a ship agent at Woodbridge.

The "Ship-wash" was, and is, the "Rattlin' Sam" of Felixstowe, and Tom Newson, FitzGerald's
skipper, had evidently had a good bit of "salwagin'."

"Dan" is not the name of a man, but of a pointed buoy with a flag atop wherewith herring fishers
mark the end of their fleets of nets, or (vide Sea Words and Phrases, etc.).  "A small buoy,
with some ensign atop, to mark where the fishing lines have been shot; and the dan is said
to 'watch well' if it hold erect against wind and tide.  I have often mistaken it for some
floating sea bird of an unknown species."

The prophecy that as soon as Posh got his longshore fleet complete he would wish to go on a
"lugger," that is to say, to the deep-sea fishing, was destined to be fulfilled, and that with
the assistance of FitzGerald himself.  But no one ever took Posh's place.  FitzGerald's experience
as a "herring merchant" began and ended with his intimacy with Posh.

{Old Lowestoft herring-drifter with "Dan" fixed to stem: p43.jpg}

George Howe, whose schooner was launched so that FitzGerald was just in time to see her masts
slipping along, was one of the sons of "old John Howe," who, with his wife, was caretaker of
Little Grange for many years. The schooner was, Posh tells me, exceptionally cheap, and FitzGerald's
reference to her meant that she was too cheap to be good.

Since Posh's letter-writing powers received praise from one so qualified to bestow it, there
must have been a falling off from want of practice, or from some other cause, for the old man
is readier with his cod lines than with his pen by a very great deal, and it is difficult to
believe that he ever wielded the pen of a ready writer.  But perhaps FitzGerald was so fascinated
by the qualities which did exist in his protege that he saw his friend through the medium of
a glamour which set up, as it were, a mirage of things that were not.  Well, it speaks better
for a man's heart to descry non-existent merits than to imagine vain defects, and it was like
the generous soul of FitzGerald to attribute excellencies to his friend which only existed
in his imagination.

CHAPTER II "REMEMBER YOUR DEBTS"

In 1866 Posh became the owner of a very old deep-sea lugger named the William Tell, and, to
enable him to acquire the nets and gear necessary for her complete equipment as a North Sea
herring boat, he borrowed a sum of 50 pounds from Tom Newson, and a further sum of 50 pounds
from Edward FitzGerald.  FitzGerald thought that Newson should have security for his loan (vide
Two Suffolk Friends, p. 104), but Newson refused to accept any such thing.  He, too, seems
to have been under the influence of Posh's fascination.  On October 7th, 1866, FitzGerald wrote
(Two Suffolk Friends, p. 105): "I am amused to see Newson's devotion to his young Friend. .
. .  He declined having any Bill of Sale on Posh's Goods for Money lent; old as he is (enough
to distrust all Mankind) . . . has perfect reliance on his Honour, Industry, Skill and Luck."

About this time FitzGerald must have written the following fragment, in which he refers to
Newson's loan:--

   "You must pay him his Interest on it when you can, and then I will
   take the Debt from him, adding it to the 50 pounds I lent you, and
   letting all that stand over for another time.

   "My dear Posh, I write all this to you, knowing you are as honest a
   fellow as lives: but I never cease hammering into everybody's head
   Remember your Debts, Remember your Debts.  I have scarcely ever
   [known?] any one that was not more or less the worse for getting
   into Debt: which is one reason why I have scarce ever lent money to
   any one.  I should not have lent it to you unless I had confidence
   in you: and I speak to you plainly now in order that my confidence may
   not diminish by your forgetting one farthing that you owe any man.

   "The other day an old Friend sent me 10 pounds, which was one half of
   what he said he had borrowed of me thirty years ago!  I told him
   that, on my honour, I wholly forgot ever having lent him any money.  I
   could only remember once refusing to lend him some.  So here is
   one man who remembered his Debts better than his Creditor did.

   "I will ask Newson about the Cork Jacket.  You know that I proposed to
   give you each one: but your Mate told me that no one would wear them.

   "Yesterday I lost my purse.  I did not know where: but Jack had seen
   me slip into a Ditch at the Ferry, and there he went and found it.  So
   is this Jack's Luck, or mine, eh, Mr. Posh?

   "E. FG."

The debt to Newson was subsequently taken over by FitzGerald, and a new arrangement made on
the building of the Meum and Tuum in the following year.  But this fragment is important, in
that it strikes a note of warning, which had to be repeated again and again during the partnership
between the poet and the fisherman.  Posh was happy-go-lucky in his accounts.  I believe he
was perfectly honest in intention, but he did not understand the scrupulosity in book-keeping
which his partner thought essential to any business concern.

FitzGerald himself was very far from being meticulous where debts due to him were concerned.
Dr. Aldis Wright can remember more than one instance in which FitzGerald tore up an acknowledgment
of a loan after two or three years' interest had been paid.  "I think you've paid enough,"
or "I think he's paid enough," would be his bland dismissal of the debt due to him.  Many Woodbridge
people had good cause to know the generosity of the man as well as ever Posh had cause to know
it.  FitzGerald may not have opened his heart to his Woodbridge acquaintance so freely as he
did to Posh, but he was always ready to loosen his purse-strings.

The cork jackets were afterwards supplied to the crew of the Meum and Tuum, as will be apparent
in the letters.

"Jack," who found the purse, was Jack Newson, Tom Newson's nephew, and the "crew" of the Scandal.

CHAPTER III A SERMON FOR SUNDAY

In 1867 Posh sold the old William Tell to be broken up.  She was barely seaworthy and unfit
to continue fishing.  An agreement was entered into with Dan Fuller, a Lowestoft boat-builder,
for a new lugger to be built, on lines supplied by Posh, at a total cost (including spars)
of 360 pounds.  FitzGerald had suggested that the boat should be built by a Mr. Hunt, of Aldeburgh,
but Posh persuaded him to consent to Lowestoft and Dan Fuller instead.  "I can look arter 'em
better," said he, with some show of reason.

The agreement was, in the first instance, between Dan Fuller and Posh, but FitzGerald took
a fancy to become partner with Posh in the boat and her profits.  He was to find the money
for the new lugger, and to let the sums already due from Posh remain in the partnership, while
Posh was to bring in the nets and gear he had.

But by this time FitzGerald had seen symptoms in Posh which caused him anxiety.  He loved his
humble friend, and his anxiety was on account of the man and not on account of the possibilities
of pecuniary loss incurred through Posh's weakness.  On December the 4th, 1866, he wrote to
Mr. Spalding, of Woodbridge: "At eight or half-past I go to have a pipe at Posh's, if he isn't
half-drunk with his Friends" (Two Suffolk Friends, p. 107).

On January 5th, 1867, he wrote to the same correspondent (Two Suffolk Friends, p. 108) referring
to Posh: "This very day he signs an Agreement for a new Herring-lugger, of which he is to be
Captain, and to which he will contribute some Nets and Gear. . . .  I believe I have smoked
my pipe every evening but one with Posh at his house, which his quiet little Wife keeps tidy
and pleasant.  The Man is, I do think, of a Royal Nature. I have told him he is liable to one
Danger (the Hare with many Friends)--so many wanting him to drink.  He says it's quite true
and that he is often obliged to run away: as I believe he does: for his House shows all Temperance
and Order.  This little lecture I give him--to go the way, I suppose, of all such Advice. . . ."

I fear that poor Posh's limbs soon grew too stiff to permit him to run away from the good brown
"bare."  But the lecture which FitzGerald mentions so casually was surely one of the most delicately
written warnings ever penned.  The sterling kindness of the writer is as transparent in it
as is his tenderness to an inferior's feelings.  No one but a very paragon of a gentleman would
have taken the trouble to write so wisely, so kindly, so tenderly, and so earnestly.  The appeal
must surely have moved Posh, for the pathos of the reference to his patron's loneliness could
not but have its effect.

But to touch on the sacred "bare" of a Lowestoft fisherman is always dangerous.  There are
many teetotallers among them now, and they would resent any imputation on their temperance.
But those who are not teetotallers would resent it much more.  FitzGerald warned his friend
in as beautiful a letter as was ever written.  But Posh could never regard the "mild bare,"
the "twopenny" of the district, as an enemy.  He rarely touched spirits.  Now, at the age of
sixty-nine, he enjoys his mild beer more than anything and cares little for stronger stuff.
But there is no doubt that this same mild beer inserted the edge of the adze which was to split
the partnership in a little more than three years' time--this and the "interfarin' parties,"
whom Posh blames for all the misunderstandings which were to come.

   "MARKETHILL, WOODBRIDGE, Thursday.

   "MY DEAR POSHY,

   "My Lawyer can easily manage the Assignment of the Lugger to me,
   leaving the Agreement as it is between you and Fuller.  But you must
   send the Agreement here for him to see.

   "As we shall provide that the Lugger when built shall belong to me; so
   we will provide that, in case of my dying before she is built, you
   may come on my executors for any money due.

   "I think you will believe that I shall propose, and agree to, nothing
   which is not for your good.  For surely I should not have meddled with
   it at all, but for that one purpose.

   "And now, Poshy, I mean to read you a short Sermon, which you can keep
   till Sunday to read.  You know I told you of one danger--and I do
   think the only one--you are liable to--Drink.

   "I do not the least think you are given to it: but you have, and
   will have, so many friends who will press you to it: perhaps I
   myself have been one.  And when you keep so long without food;
   could you do so, Posh, without a Drink--of some your bad Beer
   [sic] too--now and then?  And then, does not the Drink--and of bad
   Stuff--take away Appetite for the time?  And will, if continued, so
   spoil the stomach that it will not bear anything but Drink.  And
   this evil comes upon us gradually, without our knowing how it grows.
   That is why I warn you, Posh.  If I am wrong in thinking you want my
   warning, you must forgive me, believing that I should not warn at all
   if I were not much interested in your welfare.  I know that you do
   your best to keep out at sea, and watch on shore, for anything that
   will bring home something for Wife and Family.  But do not do so at
   any such risk as I talk of.

   "I say, I tell you all this for your sake: and something for my own
   also--not as regards the Lugger--but because, thinking you, as I do,
   so good a Fellow, and being glad of your Company; and taking
   Pleasure in seeing you prosper; I should now be sorely vext if you
   went away from what I believe you to be.

   "There--the Sermon is done, Posh.  You know I am not against Good
   Beer while at Work: nor a cheerful Glass after work: only do not let
   it spoil the stomach, or the Head.

   "Your's truly,
   "E. FG."

CHAPTER IV THE MUM TUM

FitzGerald having made up his mind to give Posh a lift by going into partnership with him began
by finding not only the money for the building of the boat but a name for her when she should
be ready for sea.  It seemed to him that "Meum and Tuum" would be an appropriate name, and
the Mum Tum is remembered along the coast to this day as a queer, meaningless title for a boat.
At a later date FitzGerald is reported to have said that his venture turned out all Tuum and
no Meum so far as he was concerned.  But it is possible that Posh dealt more fairly with him
than he thought.  At all events Posh thinks he did.

The boat was to be paid for in instalments.  So much on laying the keel, so much when the deck
was on, etc., etc., and FitzGerald took the greatest interest in her building.  He had first
thought of christening the lugger "Marian Halcombe," after Wilkie Collins's heroine in The
Woman in White, as appears from a letter to Frederic Tennyson, written in January, 1867 (Letters,
II, 90, Eversley Edition):--

   "I really think of having a Herring-lugger I am building named Marian
   Halcombe. . . .

Again on June 17th (Letters, II, 94, Eversley Edition) he wrote to the late Professor Cowell
of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge:--

   "I am here in my little Ship" (the Scandal) "with no company but my
   crew"

There was some delay in getting the deck planks on the lugger, for FitzGerald wrote to Mr.
Spalding on May 18th, 1867 (Two Suffolk Friends, p. 110), that she would be decked "next Week,"
whereas her planking was not finished till June, and, on a Friday in June, FitzGerald wrote
to Posh:--

   "WOODBRIDGE, Friday.

   "MY DEAR POSHY,

   "I am only back To-day from London, where I had to go for two days:
   and I am very glad to be back.  For the Weather was wretched: the
   Streets all Slush: and I all alone wandering about in it.  So as I was
   sitting at Night, in a great Room where a Crowd of People were eating
   Supper, and Singing going on, I thought to myself--Well, Posh might as
   well be here; and then I should see what a Face he would make at all
   this--This Thought really came into my mind.

   "I had asked Mr. Berry to forward me any Letters because I thought you
   might write to say the Lugger was planked.  But now you tell me it is
   no such thing: well, there is plenty of time: but I wished not to
   delay in sending the Money, if wanted.  I have seen, and heard, no
   more of Newson; nor of his new Lugger from Mr. Hunt--I am told that
   one of the American yachts, The Henrietta, is a perfect Model: so I
   am going to have a Print of her that I may try and learn the Stem from
   the Stern of a Ship.  If this North-Easter changes I daresay I may run
   to Lowestoft next week and get a Sail, but it is too cold for that
   now.

   "Well, here is a letter, you see, my little small Captain, in answer
   to yours, which I was glad to see, for as I do not forget you, as I
   have told you, so I am glad that you should sometime remember the Old
   Governor and Herring-merchant

   "EDWARD FITZGERALD."

It should be observed that in this letter, as in several of those written to Posh, FitzGerald
signed his name, "Edward FitzGerald," in full, a practice from which he was averse owing to
certain facts connected with another Edward Fitzgerald.  Those who have heard the story of
the historic first meeting between the poet and the late Mr. Bernard Quaritch will remember
why our FitzGerald disliked the idea of being confused with the other Edward Fitzgerald.

{Posh and his old "Shud," in which nets, etc., belonging to the partnership were stored, and
where the letters now published were found: p62.jpg}

The letter here given forces a delightful picture upon us.  Its simplicity makes it superbly
graphic.  Think of FitzGerald, refined in feature and reserved in manner, a little unconventional
in dress, but not sufficiently so to be vulgarly noticeable--think of the man who has given
us the most poetical philosophy and the most philosophical poetry, all in the most exquisite
English, in our language, sitting probably at Evans's (it sounds like Evans's with the suppers
and the music) and looking a little pityingly at the reek about him like the "poor old, solitary,
and sad Man as he really was in spite of his Jokes"; and then imaging in his mind's eye the
handsome stalwart fisherman whom he loved so truly, and believing that he was as morally excellent
as he was physically!  "What a Face he would make at all this!" thought the poet.

Five or six years ago a good friend of mine, the skipper of one of the most famous tugs of
Yarmouth, had to go up to town on a salvage case before the Admiralty Court.  With him as witnesses
went one or two beach men of the old school, wind-and sun-tanned old shell-backs, with voices
like a fog-horn, and that entire lack of self-consciousness which is characteristic of simplicity
and good breeding.  My friend the skipper was cultured in comparison with the old beach men,
and he was a little vexed when one old "salwager" insisted on accompanying him to the Oxford
Music Hall.  All went well till some conjurers appeared on the stage. Then the skipper found
that he had made a mistake in edging away from the beach man.  For that jolly old salt hailed
him across the house.  "Hi, Billeeoh!  Bill Berry!  Hi! Lor, bor, howiver dew they dew't? 
Howiver dew they dew't, bor?  Tha'ss whoolly a masterpiece!  Hi!  Billeeoh!  Theer they goo agin!"

The skipper always ends the story there.  He is as brave a man as any on the coast.  It was
he who stood out in Yarmouth Roads all night to look for the Caistor life-boat the night of
the disaster--a night when the roads could not be distinguished from the shoals, so broken
into tossing white horses was the whole offing--but I believe he slunk down the stairs of the
Oxford that night, and left the old beach man still expressing his delighted wonder.

Perhaps FitzGerald thought that Posh would be as excited as the old beach man.

"Mr. Berry" (as every one knows who knows anything about FitzGerald) was the landlord of the
house on Markethill, Woodbridge, where the poet lodged.  (By the way, he was, so far as I know,
no relation of my Bill Berry.)  A sum of 50 pounds was due to Dan Fuller on the planking being
completed, and FitzGerald was anxious to let Posh have the money as soon as it was needed.
He "remembered his debts" even before they became due.

I have already stated that Hunt was a boat-builder at Aldeburgh, and that FitzGerald had, at
first, wished Posh to employ him to build the Mum Tum, as the Meum and Tuum was fated to be called.

The kindly jovial relations between the "guv'nor" and his partner could not be better indicated
than by the name FitzGerald gives himself at the close, just before he once more signs his
name in full.  Well, perhaps the legal luminary of Lowestoft would justify his inquiry if Edward
FitzGerald was the man who made a lot of money out of salt by saying, "Well, he called himself
a herring-merchant."

The schoolmaster who had never heard of either FitzGerald or Omar Khayyam would (according
to the nature of the breed) sniff and say "What?  A herring-merchant and a tent-maker!  My
boys are the sons of gentlemen.  I can't be expected to know anything about tradesfolk of that
class."

But Posh has a sense of humour, and he says, "Ah!  He used to laugh about that, the guv'nor
did.  He'd catch hold o' my jersey, so" (here Posh pinches up a fold of his blue woollen jersey),
"and say, 'Oh dear!  Oh dear, Poshy!  Two F's in the firm.  FitzGerald and Fletcher, herring
salesmen--when Poshy catches any, which isn't as often as it might be, you know, Poshy!'  And
then he'd laugh.  Oh, he was a jolly kind-hearted man if ever there was one."

And then Posh's eyes will grow moist sometimes, I think perhaps with the thought that he might--ah,
well!  It's too late now.

Posh wishes me to give the dimensions of the lugger, as she was of his own designing and proved
a fast and stiff craft.  He had given her two feet less length than her beam called for, according
to local ideas, and FitzGerald called her "The Cart-horse," because she seemed broad and bluff
for her length.  She was forty-five feet in length, with a fifteen- foot beam and seven-foot
depth.  She was first rigged as a lugger, but altered to the more modern "dandy" (something
like a ketch but with more rake to the mizzen and with no topmast on the mainmast) before she
was sold.  Any one about the herring basins who has arrived at fisherman's maturity (about
sixty years) will remember the Mum Tum, and, so far as she was concerned, the partnership was
entirely successful, for no one has a bad word to say for her.

CHAPTER V "NEIGHBOUR'S FARE"

It is impossible to arrive at the exact sum of money which FitzGerald brought into the partnership
between him and Posh, but it must have been something like five hundred pounds.  The lugger
cost 360 pounds to build, and, in addition, Posh was paid 20 pounds for his services (see Letters,
p. 309), and various payments had to be made for "sails, cables, warps, ballast, etc."  Posh
brought in what nets and gear he had, and his services.  The first notion was that FitzGerald
should be owner of three-fourths of the concern; but on a valuation being made it was found
that the nets and gear contributed by Posh were of greater value than had been supposed, and
before the Meum and Tuum put to sea it was understood that Posh should be half owner with his
"guvnor."  Posh is very firm in his conviction that up to the return of the boat from her first
cruise there had been no mention of any bill of sale, or mortgage, of the boat and gear to
FitzGerald to secure the money he had found. According to him his partner was to be a sleeping
partner and no more, and the entire conduct and control of the business were to be vested in
Posh.  The quarrels and misunderstandings which subsequently arose on this point Posh attributes
to certain "interfarin' parties" (and especially to a Lowestoft lawyer), who were under the
impression that FitzGerald had not looked after himself so well as he might have done and who
thought that this omission should be remedied.  Possibly they had an idea that they might "make
somethin'" in the course of the remedial measures.

Early in August Posh sailed north with his crew to meet the herring on their way down south.
His luck was poor, and on August 26th FitzGerald wrote him from Lowestoft:--

   "LOWESTOFT, Monday, August 26.

   "MY DEAR POSH,

   "As we hear nothing of you, we suppose that you have yet caught
   nothing worth putting in for.  And, as I may be here only a Day
   longer, I write again to you: though I do not know if I have anything
   to say which needs writing again for.  In my former letter, directed
   to you as this letter will be, I desired you to get a Life Buoy as
   soon as you could.  That is for the Good of your People, as well as
   of yourself.  What I now have to say is wholly on your own Account:
   and that is, to beg you to take the Advice given by the Doctor to your
   Father: namely, not to drink Beer and Ale more than you can
   help: but only Porter, and, every day, some Gin and Water.  I was
   talking to your Father last Saturday; and I am convinced that you
   inherit a family complaint: if I had known of this a year ago I would
   not have drenched you with all the Scotch, and Norwich, Ale which I
   have given you. . . .  Do not neglect this Advice, as being only an
   old Woman's Advice; you have, even at your early time of life,
   suffered from Gravel; and you may depend upon it that Gravel will
   turn to Stone, unless you do something like what I tell you, and
   which the Doctor has told your Father.  And I know that there is no
   Disease in the World which makes a young Man old sooner than Stone:
   No Disease that wears him more.  You should take plenty of Tea;
   some Gin and Water every night; and no Ale, or Beer; but only
   Porter; and not much of that.  If you do not choose to buy Gin for
   yourself, buy some for me: and keep it on board: and drink some
   every Day, or Night.  Pray remember this: and do it.

   "I have been here since I wrote my first Letter to Scarboro'; that is
   to say, a week ago.  Till To-day I have been taking out some Friends
   every day: they leave the place in a day or two, and I shall go home;
   though I dare say not for long.  Your wife seems nearly right again; I
   saw her To-day.  Your Father has engaged to sell his Shrimps to Levi,
   for this season and next, at 4s. a Peck.  Your old Gazelle came in
   on Saturday with all her Nets gone to pieces; the Lugger Monitor
   came in here yesterday to alter her Nets--from Sunk to Swum, I
   believe.  So here is a Lowestoft Reporter for you: and you may never
   have it after all.  But, if you do, do not forget what I have told
   you.  Your Father thinks that you may have missed the Herring by going
   outward, where they were first caught: whereas the Herring had
   altered their course to inshore. . . .  Better to miss many Herrings
   than have the Stone.

   "E. FG."

Here, again, the delicate solicitude of this perfect gentleman is apparent.  That is to say,
"If you think that you cannot afford to buy gin for yourself don't worry about the expense.
I'll see you are not put to any extra cost.  But I can't bear to think that you may suffer
for the want of a medicine because of your East Anglian parsimony."

It must be remembered that East Anglia was notorious for the frequency of the disease in question.
The late William Cadge, of Norwich, probably the finest lithotomist in the world (as Thompson
was the greatest lithotritist), once told me that he had performed over four hundred operations
in the Norwich Hospital for this disease alone.

But FitzGerald's fears concerning Posh were not realised.  He seems to have had an especial
dread of the disease (as who has not?), for in a letter to Frederic Tennyson of January 29th
previously (II, 89, Eversley Edition) he wrote (of Montaigne): "One of his Consolations for
The Stone is that it makes one less unwilling to part with Life."

Levi was a Lowestoft fishmonger, referred to in the footnote of Two Suffolk Friends, p. 108.

The Gazelle was the "punt" or longshore boat which Posh bought at Southwold, and called (by
reason of her splendid qualities) The Little Wonder.

The difference between "sunk" and "swum" herring nets would be unintelligible to a modern herring
fisher.  Now the nets are thirty feet in depth, are buoyed on the surface of the sea, and are
kept perpendicular (like a wall two miles long) by the weight of heavy cables or "warps" which
stretch along the bottom of the nets.  I am, of course, referring to North Sea fishing only,
and not to the longshore punts, whose nets are not half the depth of the North Sea fleets.

In FitzGerald's time if the herring were expected to swim deep the nets were sunk below the
cables or warps which strung them together, and if they were thought to be swimming high they
were buoyed above the warps, the system of fishing being called "sunk" in the former case and
"swum" in the latter.  Now all nets are "swum," that is to say, all are above the warps and
are buoyed on the surface.  But the depth has increased so much (to what is technically known
as "twenty-score mesh," which comes to about thirty feet) that there is no need to alter their
setting.

Posh's wife, whose state of health is referred to in this letter, survived till 1892, but for
many years suffered from tuberculosis in the lungs.

The Monitor was a Kessingland craft, and belonged to one Hutton.

But whether Posh fished with "sunk" or "swum" nets his luck was out for the season of 1867.
The fish as a rule get down to the Norfolk coast about the beginning of October, and Posh had
followed them down from Scarborough.  About the end of September, or the beginning of October,
FitzGerald wrote to his partner, addressing the letter to 8 Strand Cottages, Lowestoft, in
the expectation that the Meum and Tuum had come south with the rest of the herring drifters,
Yarmouth, Lowestoft, North and South Shields, and Scotch.

{Strand Cottages, where Posh lived.  No. 8, his cottage, is marked with a white cross: p77.jpg}

   "WOODBRIDGE, Saturday.

   "DEAR POSH,

   "I write you a line, because I suppose it possible that you may be at
   home some time to-morrow.  If you are not, no matter.  I do not know
   if I shall be at Lowestoft next week: but you are not to suppose that,
   if I do do [sic] not go there just now I have anything to complain
   of.  I am not sure but that a Friend may come here to see me, and
   also, unless the weather keep warmer than it was some days ago, I
   scarce care to sleep in my cabin: which has no fire near it as yours
   has.

   "If I do not go to Lowestoft just yet, I shall be there before very
   long: at my friend Miss Green's, if my Ship be laid up.

   "I see in the Paper that there have been some 40 lasts of Herring
   landed in your market during this last week: the Southwold Boats doing
   best.  I began to think the Cold might keep the Fish in deep water, so
   that swum nets would scarce reach them yet.  But this is mere guess.
   I told you not to answer all my letters: but you can write me a line
   once a week to say what you are doing.  I hope our turn for
   "Neighbour's fare" is not quite lost, though long a coming.

   "Newson and Jack are gone home for Sunday.  To-night is a grand
   Horsemanship, to which I would make you go if you were here.  Remember
   me to all your People and believe me yours

   "E. FG.

   "I see that the . . . [illegible] vessel: and, as far as I see,
   deserved to do so."

Miss Green was the landlady of the house at 12 Marine Terrace, Lowestoft, where FitzGerald
usually stayed when he did not sleep aboard the Scandal.

Up to the date of the letter, and, indeed, throughout the season of 1867, the Meum and Tuum
had bad luck.  FitzGerald thought it was time that the luck should change, for "Neighbour's
fare" is defined in Sea Words and Phrases along the Suffolk Coast as "Doing as well as one's
neighbours.  'I mayn't make a fortune, but I look for "Neighbour's fare" nevertheless.'"

CHAPTER VI THE LUCK O' THE MUM TUM

"Neighbour's fare" was long in coming to FitzGerald in his venture as a "herring merchant."
But he was happy enough in the consciousness that he was doing Posh a good turn.  Whether or
not Posh had a greater share of the earnings of the boat than he was entitled to I cannot say.
Certainly he began to thrive exceedingly about this time, and, as an old longshoreman seven
years Posh's senior, said to me the other day, "He might ha' been a gennleman!  He used to
kape his greyhounds, and he had as pratty a mare as the' wuz in Lowestoft.  Ah! Mr. FitzGerald
was a good gennleman to him--that he wuz!"

Once again the epithet "good," which he so pre-eminently merited.

But whether the year had been bad or good, it was necessary for the sleeping partner to look
into the accounts of the firm.

On Christmas Day of 1867, when the season was over and all the herring drifters had "made up,"
that is to say, had worked out their accounts and struck a balance of profit or loss, Fitzgerald
wrote to Posh:--

   "WOODBRIDGE, Christmas Day.

   "DEAR CAPTAIN,

   "Unless I hear from you to-morrow that you are coming over here, I
   shall most likely run over myself to Miss Green's at Lowestoft--by the
   Train which gets there about 2.

   "I shall look in upon you in the evening, if so be that I do not see
   you in the course of the day.  I say I shall look in upon [sic] to-
   morrow, I dare say:--But, as this is Christmas time and I suppose you
   have many friends to see, I shall not want you to be at school every
   evening.

   "This is Newson's piloting week, so he cannot come.

   "E. FG."

Posh did not go to Woodbridge, so FitzGerald went to Miss Green's, whence, on December the
28th, he wrote one of his most characteristic letters (in that it embraced interests so widely
different) to Professor Cowell.  The letter begins with a reference to M. Garcin de Tassy and
his "annual oration," and continues with some passages of great interest concerning the Rubaiyat
and Attar's "Birds."  (Dr. Aldis Wright's Eversley Edition of Letters, II, 100.)  Then from
a delicate and dainty piece of criticism the poet turns to his herring business.

Well, he had his wish, though Posh maintains that there was gain in the business at a certain
time to be referred to hereafter, and that there might have been plenty of gain but for the
"interfarin' parties" before mentioned.

From the first there was a difficulty in persuading Posh to keep any accounts of either outgoings
or incomings.  He seems to have paid a bill when he thought of it, or when he had the money
for it handy.  But no idea of book-keeping, even in its most rudimentary form, was ever entertained
by him.

And FitzGerald had, before ever the partnership was an accomplished fact, impressed on Posh
the importance of remembering his debts.

Before the spring fishing began in 1868 the question of accounts came to the fore.  On March
the 29th the sleeping partner wrote from Woodbridge:--

   "DEAR POSHY,

   "I have your Letter of this Morning:--I suppose that you have got mine
   also.  I hope that you understood what I said in it--about the Bills,
   I mean--that you should put down in writing all outgoings, and in
   such a way as you, or I, might easily reckon them up: I mean, so as to
   see what each amounts to--No man's Memory can be trusted in such
   matters; and I think that your Memory (jostled about, as you say,
   with many different calls, [sic no close to parenthesis] needs to
   have writing to refer to.  Do not suppose for one moment that I do
   not trust you, my good fellow: nor that I think you have made any
   great blunder in what Accounts you did keep last year.  I only mean
   that a man ought to be able to point out at once, to himself or to
   others, all the items of an Account; to do which, you know, gave you
   great Trouble--You must not be too proud to learn a little of some one
   used to such business: as Mr. Spalding, for instance.

   "If you think the Oil and Cutch are as good, and as cheap, at
   Lowestoft as I can get them here, why not get them at once at
   Lowestoft?  About that green Paint for the Lugger's bottom:--Mr.
   Silver got some so very good for Pasifull's Smack last year that I
   think it might be worth while to get some, if we could, from his
   Merchant.  You told me that what you got at Lowestoft was not very
   good.

   "I am very glad that the Lugger is so well thought of that any one
   else wants to build from her.  For she was your child, you know.

   "Mr. Durrant has never sent me the plants.  I doubt he must have lost
   some more children.  Do not go to him again, if you went before.  I
   daresay I shall be running over to Lowestoft soon.  But I am not quite
   well.

   "E. FG.

   "Remember me to your Family: you do not tell me if your Mother is
   better."

The Mr. Spalding here referred to was at that time the manager for a large firm of agricultural
implement makers.  Subsequently he became the curator of the museum at Colchester, and the
letters from FitzGerald to him which were handed to Mr. Francis Hindes Groome formed the most
valuable part of the second part of Two Suffolk Friends called "Edward FitzGerald.  An Aftermath."

"Oil" and "cutch" are preservatives for the herring nets.  The oil is linseed, and the nets
are soaked in it before they are tanned by the cutch.  Cutch is a dark resinous stuff, which
is thrown into a copper full of water and boiled till it is dissolved.  Then the liquid is
thrown over the nets and permitted to soak in.  After the nets are soaked in linseed oil, and
before they are tanned, they are hung up to dry in the open air.  The process has to be repeated
several times during each fishing, and those who are familiar with Lowestoft and Yarmouth must
also be familiar with the sight and smell of the nets, hanging out on railings, either on public
open spaces or in private net yards.  Where rails are not obtainable the nets are often spread
on the ground, and an ingenious idea for the quaint shape of Yarmouth (unique with its narrow
"rows") is that the rows represent the narrow footpaths between the spaces on which the nets
used to be laid to dry.

"Pasifull" is sometimes called "Percival," sometimes "Pasifall," and sometimes as in this letter.
His Christian name was Ablett, and he was both a fisherman and a yacht hand.

Mr. Durrant was a market gardener and fruiterer in Lowestoft, and his sons carry on the same
business in three shops in Lowestoft now.  One of them remembers FitzGerald as a visitor and
"a queer old chap," and that's all he knows about him.

I do not think Posh troubled himself much about the accounts.  But there was another subject
already broached which was to cause some unpleasantness between the partners.

Some of FitzGerald's friends, both at Lowestoft and elsewhere, had become uneasy at the hold
which Posh had obtained over him.  They feared lest he should become a baron of beef at which
Posh could cut and come again. More than one advised him that he should have some better security
than a mere partnership understanding, that he should, in fact, insist on having a bill of
sale, or mortgage of the Meum and Tuum and her gear to secure the money he had found.  Possibly
he was swayed by Posh's backwardness in the matter of account.  Certainly he came to the conclusion
that his friends were right, and that he should have a charge on the boat and her gear.  Now
I believe that Posh tells the truth when he says that in the first instance there was no mention
of any such charge.  And he was not a business man enough to see the reasonableness of FitzGerald's
demand.  He was, moreover, urged by the secretiveness of his race, the love of keeping private
affairs from outsiders, and he bitterly resented the proposition.  Indeed, during the early
months of 1868, there were constant semi-quarrels, which were as constantly patched up.  FitzGerald
loved the man too well to quarrel with him definitely.  Besides, Posh had not been well.

But in this first instance Posh gave way.  On April 14th FitzGerald wrote Mr. Spalding: "I
believe that he and I shall now sign the Mortgage Papers that make him owner of Half Meum and
Tuum.  I only get out of him that he can't say he sees much amiss in the Deed."  But Posh is
still bitter about that deed, and still blames his old "guv'nor" for having listened to the
"interfarin' parties."  He does not know what was the matter with him that spring.  "I was
quare, sir," he says.  "I don't know what ta was.  But I was quare."

He got well in time to go off after the spring mackerel, which used to be a regular fishing
season off Lowestoft, though now mackerel are getting as scarce as salmon off the Norfolk and
Suffolk coast.  But the Meum and Tuum's bad luck still followed her with the longer and bigger
meshed nets.  On June 16th, 1868, FitzGerald wrote to Mr. Spalding (Two Suffolk Friends, p. 113):--

   "Mackerel still come in very slow, sometimes none at all: the dead
   calm nights play the deuce with the Fishing, and I see no prospect of
   change in the weather till the Mackerel shall be changing their
   Quarters.  I am vexed to see the Lugger come in Day after day so
   poorly stored after all the Labour and Time and Anxiety given to the
   work by her Crew; but I can do no more, and at any rate take my share
   of the Loss very lightly.  I can afford it better than they can.  I
   have told Newson to set sail and run home any Day, Hour, or Minute,
   when he wishes to see his Wife and Family."

Newson and Jack were down at Lowestoft with the Scandal, and it was characteristic of FitzGerald
to give his skipper leave to run home when he wished.  FitzGerald always liked the Meum and
Tuum to be in harbour on a Sunday so that the men could see their wives and families and have
a "good hot dinner."

CHAPTER VII "FLAGSTONE FITZGERALD"

Now that the Meum and Tuum was ready for work FitzGerald's anxiety for the lives of her crew
made him insist upon their taking life-belts aboard with them, although the mate had stated
that no one would wear them.  On April 24th a letter was written to Posh from Woodbridge.

   "DEAR POSHY,

   "I hear from Mr. Birt this morning that the Life Belts were sent off
   to you yesterday--directed to your house.  So I suppose they will
   reach you without your having to go look for them.  But you can
   enquire at the Rail if they don't show up.

   "Mr. Birt says that he makes the Belts of two sizes for the Life
   Boat.  But he has sent all yours of the large size, except one for
   the Boy.  I had told him I thought you were all of you biggish Men,
   except the Boy.  I suppose I have blundered as usual.  But if the
   Jackets are too big you must change some of them.  That will only cost
   carriage; and that I must pay for my Blunder.

   "I doubt you have been unlucky in your drying days--yesterday we had
   such violent showers as would have washed out your oil, I think.  And
   it must have rained much last night.  But you share in my luck now,
   you know.

   "But I am very glad the children are better.  I thought it was bad
   weather for fever.  There has been great sickness here, I think.  Mr.
   Gowing and his house are as tedious as Mr. Dove and my house; we
   must hope that does not mean to play as false.

   "I am very sorry for your loss of lines and anchors.

   "E. FG."

Mr. Gowing was, so far as Posh can recollect, a Woodbridge builder, and Mr. Dove was the Builder
who altered Little Grange for FitzGerald. Whether or not the life-belts fitted or were ever
used I can't ascertain. But I believe that one was in existence a year or so ago.  The "lines
and anchors" were, Posh thinks, lost from his old punt the Gazelle.

For the sake of convenience I give a letter here which is somewhat out of date, but inasmuch
as it has nothing to do with the fishing but only with the trust which FitzGerald had in Posh
it may very well come in here.

   "MARKETHILL, WOODBRIDGE, October 2nd.

   "DEAR POSH,

   "I forgot to tell you that I had desired a Day and Night Telescope to
   be left for me at the Lowestoft Railway Station--Please to enquire
   for it: and, if it be there, this Letter of mine may be sufficient
   Warrant for you to take the Glass.

   "Do not, however, take the Glass out to sea till we have tried it.

   "We got here yesterday.  I shall not be at Lowestoft this week at
   any rate.

   "Yours,
   "EDWARD FITZGERALD.

   "Please to send me word about the Glass.  I left a note for you in
   George Howe's hands before we started.  I was sorry not to see you;
   but you knew where to find me on Monday Evening."

The glass was, Posh assures me, a good one.  But no one knows what became of it.  Later FitzGerald
again mentions the glass.

   "WOODBRIDGE, Monday.

   "DEAR POSH,

   "If I could have made sure from your letter that you were going to
   stop on shore this Day, I would have run over to see you.  You tell me
   of getting a Job done: but I cannot be sure if you are having it done
   To-day: and I do not go to Lowestoft for fear you may be put to sea
   again.

   "Of course you will get anything done to Boat or Net that you think
   proper.

   "You did not tell me how the Spy-Glass answers.  But do not trouble
   yourself to write.

   "Yours truly,
   "FLAGSTONE FITZGERALD."

{Woodbridge River (evening) where the "scandal" berthed: p97.jpg}

As soon as I asked Posh the meaning of the signature "Flagstone FitzGerald" he burst out laughing.
"What!" said he.  "Hain't yew niver heard about ole Flagstone?  He was a retail and wholesale
grocer and gin'ral store dealer at Yarmouth name ---" (well, we will say Smith for purposes
of reference.  As the man's sons still carry on his old business here in Lowestoft it is as
well not to give the true name.  By the way, I do not mean that the sons carry on the "flagstone"
business), "and he owned tew or t'ree boots and stored 'em hisself.  Well, when they come to
make up (and o' coorse he'd chudged the men for the stores, ah! and chudged 'em high!) they
went t'rew the stores an' found as he'd weighted up the sugar and such like wi' flagstone!
Well, they made it sa hot for him at Yarmouth that he had ta mewve ta Lowestoft, and he was
allust called Flagstone Smith arter that.  I reckon as the Guv'nor heerd the yarn and liked
it.  Ha!  Ha!  Ha!"

And it isn't a bad yarn for one which is actually true in every respect.

About the same time, or a little later (for it is impossible to fix the date of these letters
definitely), Fitzgerald wrote:--

   "WOODBRIDGE, Saturday.

   "MY DEAR LAD,

   "I suppose the Lugger had returned, and that you had gone out in her
   again before my last Note, with Newson's Paper, reached you.  I have a
   fancy that you will go home this evening.  But whether you are not
   [sic] do not stay at home to answer me.  I have felt, as I said,
   pretty sure that the Boat was back from Harwich: and we have had no
   such weather as to make me anxious about you.  One night it blew; but
   not a gale: only a strong Wind.

   "I shall be expecting Newson up next week.

   "I have thought of you while I have been walking out these fine
   moonlight nights.  But I doubt your fish must have gone off before
   this.

   "You see I have nothing to say to you; only I thought you might to
   [sic] hear from me whenever you should come back.

   "E. FG."

CHAPTER VIII HOW FISHERS FISHED

The poor mackerel season ended in the second week of July.  Why, when mackerel were so scarce,
the Meum and Tuum did not give up the fishing and try for "midsummer herring" it is difficult
to understand, and Posh does not remember the reason, if there was one.  Possibly the change
of nets, etc., etc., was too much trouble.  Anyhow, the season was unprofitable for the mackerel
boats.  On Monday, July 13th, FitzGerald was still on the Scandal at Lowestoft, and wrote from
there to Mr. Spalding (Two Suffolk Friends, p. 113): "Posh made up and paid off on Saturday.
I have not yet asked him, but I suppose he has just paid his way, I mean so far as Grub goes.
. . .  Last night it lightened to the South, as we sat in the Suffolk Gardens--I, and Posh,
and Mrs. Posh. . . ."

The "making up" may require some little explanation.  The "drift" fishing--i.e. the herring
and mackerel fishing (for though sprats and pilchards are caught by drift nets, it is unnecessary
to consider them when dealing with the great North Sea drift fishing)--is carried on on a system
of sharing profits between owners and fishermen.  Trawlers, i.e. craft that fish with a "trawl"
net for flat fish, haddocks, etc., etc., are managed differently.

"Making up" is the technical term for balancing profit and loss of a season, and ascertaining
the sums which are due to owners and crew respectively.

In the days when Fitzgerald was a "herring merchant," the systems of Yarmouth and Lowestoft
were different.  At Yarmouth the owner of the boat took nine shares out of sixteen, and bore
all losses of damaged or lost nets, etc., the remaining seven shares being divided among the
crew in varying proportions.  For instance, the skipper took 1.75 or two shares, the mate 1.25
or 1.5, and so on down to the boy with his one-half or three-eighths share.  At Lowestoft the
shares were also divided into sixteen; but the owner took only eight, and the crew the other
eight.  The losses of gear, nets, etc., however, were borne equally between the two lots of
eight shares, and, on the whole, I believe the Yarmouth system was more favourable to the men,
though the Lowestoft system made the skipper and crew more careful of the nets and gear than
they might have been did not they suffer for any loss of them.  The introduction of steam drifters
has made the shares complicated in the extreme.  The owners take so much as owners of the boat,
so much for the engines, etc., etc., and, in fact, the owners get the share of a very greedy
lion.  However, the prices rule so high nowadays, and the catches are occasionally so large
(the other day a steam drifter brought in over 200 pounds worth of fish to Grimsby as the result
of one night's fishing), that the great Martinmas fishing of the east coast has become a gamble
in which fortunes may be made and lost.  Many a boat earns over 2000 pounds from October to
December.  A lucky skipper may take 200 pounds for his share of the home fishing alone.  But
such figures would have sounded fantastic in FitzGerald's day, for I have been assured over
and over again by herring fishers that in the sixties and seventies, ay, even in the eighties
of last century, 20 pounds was a "good season's share" for a prominent hand of a successful
drifter.

Posh, as half owner, would take four-sixteenth shares, and as skipper would probably take another
two-sixteenths, so that he would draw more than any one else.

Some time during the spring or summer of 1868 there was great excitement amongst the fishing-boat
owners of Lowestoft and other ports on account of an Act just passed regulating the building
of vessels, having especial regard to the ventilation of the cuddy, forecastle, or the men's
sleeping quarters.  Posh tells me that many owners of drifters considered that the Act applied
to all craft, including fishing boats, and that great expense was undergone by some over-conscientious
owners in fitting ventilating drums and shafts in accordance with the Act.  If the statute
applied to any drifter it would apply to the Meum and Tuum, and FitzGerald evidently thought
that the intention of the Act was that fishing boats should be exempt.  He proved to be right,
for the regulations were never enforced on fishing boats.  He wrote to Posh:--

   "WOODBRIDGE, Saturday.

   "DEAR POSH,

   "You must lay out three halfpence on the Eastern Times for last
   Friday.  In that Newspaper there is a good deal written about that Act
   for altering Vessels: the Writer is quite sure--that the Act does
   not apply to Fishing craft; and he writes as if he knew what he was
   writing about.  But most likely if he had written just the contrary,
   it would have seemed as right to me.  Do you therefore fork out three
   halfpennies, as I tell you, and study the matter and talk it over with
   others.  The owners of Vessels should lose no time in meeting, and in
   passing some Resolution on the Subject.

   "I have not seen Newson, but West was down at the Ferry some days back
   and saw him.  For a wonder, he [Newson] was Fishing!--for
   Codlings--for there really was nothing else to do: no Woodbridge
   Vessels coming in and out the Harbour, nor any work for the Salvage
   Smacks.  He spoke of his Wife as much the same: Smith, the Pilot,
   thought her much altered when last he saw her.

   "You will buy such things as you spoke of wanting at the Lowestoft
   Sales if they go at a reasonable price.  As to the claim made by your
   Yawl, I suppose it will come down to half.  The builders are coming to
   my house again next week, I believe, having left their work undone.

   "Now, here is a Letter for your Mantelpiece to-morrow--Sunday--I don't
   think I have more to say.

   "Yours E. FG.

   "Mr. Durrant has never sent me the hamper of Flowers he promised.

   "P.S.  I post this letter before Noon so as you will receive it this
   evening: and can get the Newspaper I tell you of:

   "Eastern Times for Friday last sold at Chapman's."

Posh does not remember whether he laid out the three halfpence or not. But he doubts it.  "I
knowed as that couldn't ha' nothin' ta dew along o' us," says he.  And he stuck to his guns
and proved to be right.

"West" has been mentioned before as being an old fellow with whom FitzGerald used to navigate
the river Deben in a small boat before the building of the Scandal.  Newson's wife, like Posh's,
was often ailing. Kind "Fitz" had written previously (July 25th, 1868; Letters, Eversley Edition,
p. 106) to Professor Cowell:--

   ". . .

{The "Happy New Year" yawl, belonging to Posh's beach company: p107.jpg}

The "claim made by your yawl" refers to a claim for salvage made by the company of beach men
(of which Posh was a member) owning a yawl. FitzGerald (as has been seen before) always took
a humorous interest in the doings of the "sea pirates," yclept beach men or "salwagers," and
he doubtless enjoyed his little chuckle at Posh's expense.

The builders were at work on Little Grange, which FitzGerald predicted he would never live
in but would die in.  However, he falsified both predictions, for he lived in the house ten
years and died in Norfolk.

Mr. Durrant was still in default.  I doubt if FitzGerald ever got those flowers.  They were
plants, Posh tells me, which FitzGerald wished to plant out at Little Grange.

I can find no record of the principal, the Martinmas or Autumn, fishing
of 1868.  But in the spring of 1869 the Meum and Tuum went to the "West
Fishing" for mackerel, even as a large number of our modern steam
drifters go now, to the indignation of the pious fishermen of Penzance,
Newlyn, and St. Ives.  These good fellows of the west have, I think, some
reason to complain that it is unfair that they should suffer for
righteousness' sake.  Looking at the point in dispute impartially, it
does seem hard that the men of the locality should see Easterlings
bringing in good catches of fish as the result of what the Cornishmen
regard as a desecration of "the Lord's Day."  The religious sentiment
which prevents the western and southern men from putting off on Sunday is
genuine and sincere enough.  The Scotch herring boats, which come in
their thousands to Yarmouth and Lowestoft for the autumn fishing, are
always in harbour from Saturday night to Monday morning, though the local
boats fish all days and nights.  But by keeping in harbour the Scotchmen
offend the sensibilities of no one, whereas there is much bitterness
caused in the west by the refusal of the Easterlings to fall in with
local custom.  You can't think what a grand, tender Soul this is, lodged in a
   suitable carcase."

FitzGerald thought very highly of that "carcase" of Posh's, as will be seen from the story
of the Laurence portrait, set forth hereinafter, as the lawyers, whom Posh hates so much, would
say.

The sleeping partner throughout seems to have had more anxiety on account of Posh's sea hazards
than on account of business losses.  How the mackerel paid I do not know, but Posh was in time
to go north for the beginning of the herring fishing in July.

CHAPTER IX ECCENTRICITIES OF A GOOD HEART

There must always be an interval ashore between the return of the drifters from the western
voyage and their sailing north to follow the herring down from Aberdeen to Yarmouth.  And during
this interval, in 1869, FitzGerald wrote one or two letters to Posh which have survived that
wholesale destruction of which their recipient speaks.

   "WOODBRIDGE, Friday.

   "Newson is up here with the Yacht, Posh; and we shall start to-morrow
   with the Tide about 10.30.  I doubt if we shall get out of the
   harbour: or, even if we do that, get to Lowestoft in the Day.  But you
   can just give a look to the Southward to-morrow evening, or Sunday.  I
   write this, because we may not have more than a day to stay at
   Lowestoft.

   "E. FG."

Despite his silk hat and his boa, FitzGerald was a keen and genuine lover of yachting.  Even
in the way in which he took his enjoyment of this he was original.  Posh asserts that he has
seen his "guv'nor" lying in the lee scuppers while the Scandal was heeling over in a stiff
breeze, and permitting the wash of the sea to run over him till he was drenched to the skin.
Indeed, although his long lean body looked frail, he was reckless in the way in which he treated
it.  Posh tells one story which I give in his words.  He vouches for its truth, and I give
it on his authority and not as vouching for its accuracy myself.  Personally I believe the
tale is true enough, but I admit that it requires a power of assimilation which is not given
to all.

   "He! he!" says Posh.  "He was a rum un sometimes, was my guv'nor!  I
   remember one day when the Scandal was a layin' agin' the wharf where
   the trawl market is now.  Mr. Sims Reeves, the lawyer [this was a
   prominent counsel on the Norwich circuit, not the famous tenor], and
   some other friends came over for a sail, and they and Tom [Newson] was
   below while me and Jack and the guv'nor was on deck, astarn.  The
   mains'l was h'isted, but there wasn't no heads'l on her, and we lay
   theer riddy to get unner way.  There was a fresh o' wind blowin' from
   the eastard, not wery stiddy, and as we lay theer the boom kep' a
   wamblin' and a jerkin' from side to side, a wrenchin' the mainsheet
   block a rum un.  The guv'nor was a readin' of a letter as had just
   been brought down by the poost.  'Posh,' he say, 'here's a letter with
   some money I niver expected to git,' he say.  'That's a good job,'
   when just then the boom come over wallop and caught him fair on the
   side of his hid, and knocked him oover into the harbour like one
   o'clock.  He was a wearin' of his topper same as us'al, and all of a
   sudden up he come agin just as Jack an' me was raychin' oover arter
   him.  His topper come up aisy like, as though 'twas a life-buoy if I
   may say soo, and unnerneath it come the fur boa, and then the guv'nor.
   And as true as I set here he was still a holdin' that letter out in
   front of him in both hands.  Well, I couldn't help it.  I bust out a
   laughin', and soo did Jack an' all, and then we rayched down and
   copped hold on him and h'isted him aboord all right and tight, but as
   wet as a soused harrin'.  He come up a laughin', playsed as Punch, an'
   give orders to cast off and git up headsail ta oncet.  And would yew
   believe me, he wouldn't goo below ta shift afore we got right out to
   the Corton light, though Mr. Reeves axed him tew time and time agin!
   Not he.  That was blowin' a fresh o' wind, an' he jest lay down in the
   lee scuppers, and 'I can't get no wetter, Posh,' he say, and let the
   lipper slosh oover him.  Ah!  He was a master rum un, was my ole
   guv'nor!"

The northern herring voyage of the Meum and Tuum in 1869, that is to say, the eight weeks'
fishing down the east coast from Aberdeen to Lowestoft from the beginning of August to the
end of September, seems to have been about up to what FitzGerald might have called "Neighbour's
fare." (Letters, II, 110, Eversley Edition).

{A Lowestoft "Dandy": p116.jpg}

The number of hands on a herring drifter used to be eleven, which seemed excessive till the
labour of hauling nearly two miles of nets by hand is remembered.  Now that almost every drifter
which goes into the North Sea has a donkey engine to do the hardest work of the hauling the
number aboard the dandies is lessened to nine.

This letter to Mrs. Thompson is the first suggestion that FitzGerald has any idea of ending
the partnership, a suggestion which became fully developed in 1870.

But before Posh was hard at it every day, fishing off the Norfolk coast, his "guv'nor" wrote
him a note in a much more cheerful strain.  Indeed, this is a letter by itself, unlike any
other of the writer's which I have seen, though (as Dr. Aldis Wright says) "FitzGerald never
wrote a letter like any one else."  The power of throwing himself "into the picture," the humour
of conscious imitation, were never more brilliantly illustrated than by this hail-fellow-well-met
letter, written by the scholar and poet:--

   "MARKETHILL, WOODBRIDGE, Wednesday.

   "Now then, Posh, here is a letter for you, sooner than you looked for,
   and moreover you will have to answer it as soon as you can.

   "I want you to learn from your friend Dan Fuller what particulars
   you can about that Lugger we saw at Mutford Bridge.  Draft of Water,
   Length of Keel, What sails and Stores; and what Price; and any other
   Questions you may think necessary to ask.  If the man here who has a
   notion of buying such a Vessel to make a Yacht of on this river sees
   any hope of doing so at a reasonable rate, and with a reasonable hope
   of Success, he will go over next week to look at the Vessel.  He of
   course knows he would have to alter all her inside: but I told him
   your Opinion that she would do well cutter rigged.

   "So now, Poshy, do go down as soon as is convenient, to Dan, and stand
   him half a pint and don't tell him what you are come about, but just
   turn the conversation (in a Salvaging sort of way) to the old Lugger
   and get me the particulars I ask for.  Perhaps Dan's heart will
   open--over Half a Pint--as yours has been known to do.  And if you
   write to me as soon as you can what you can learn, why I take my
   Blessed Oath that I'll be d---d if I don't stand you Half a Pint, so
   help me Bob, the next time I go to Lowestoft.  I hope I make myself
   understood.

   "The Elsie is being gutted, and new timbered, and Mr. Silver has
   bought a new dandy of forty tons, and Ablett Percival" (cf. spelling
   in other letters) "is to be Captain.  I think of going down the river
   soon to see Captain Newson.  I have been on the River To-day and
   thought that I should have been with you on the way to Yarmouth or
   Southwold if I had stayed at Lowestoft.  Instead of which I have been
   to the Lawyer here.

   "Good-bye, Poshy, and believe me always yours to the last Half Pint.

   "E. FG.

   "I enclose a paper with my questions marked, to which you can add
   short answers."

Dan Fuller was the builder of the Meum and Tuum.  His son is still living, and a well-known
mechanic in Lowestoft.  Mutford Bridge will be better recognised as the bridge at Oulton Broad.

Once again FitzGerald chuckles at the morality of the "salwagers," and chuckles again at the
expansiveness of the East Anglian "half a pint," which may mean anything between its nominal
measure and the full holding capacity of the drinker--which is as vague as "half a pint," itself.

The Elsie was a yacht which belonged to a syndicate of Woodbridge yachtsmen, of whom Mr. Silver
(a Woodbridge friend of FitzGerald's) was one and Mr. Manby was another.  The two friends who
went to Mutford Bridge to look at the lugger were (so far as Posh can remember) Mr. Silver
and Mr. Cobbold, of Cobbold's Bank.  Posh says that the lugger was a beauty.  But nothing came
of the visit, and the Woodbridge man did not buy her.

As yet the warning which FitzGerald had given Posh in his sermon had (so far as the letters
tell us) served its purpose.  But the letters appear to be deceitful in this, and the next
chapter must deal with a painful phase of the partnership.

CHAPTER X POSH'S SPIRIT OF INDEPENDENCE

The hopes for the home fishing of 1869 should have been good.  On August 30th, 1869 (Two Suffolk
Friends, p. 114), FitzGerald wrote to Mr. Spalding from Lowestoft: "You will see by the enclosed
that Posh has had a little better luck than hitherto.  One reason for my not going to Woodbridge
is, that I think it possible that this N.E. wind may blow him hither to tan his nets.  Only
please God it don't tan him and his people first."

Herring are, as our East Anglian fishermen say, "ondependable" in their travels.  They come
south along the coast from the north of Scotland till they are in their prime (full-roed, fat
fish) off Yarmouth in October. But their arrival at the various ports along the east coast
can never be fixed for a certain date.  This year, for instance (1907), owing to the warm August
and September they have been late in coming south from Hull. Generally "longshores" are caught
off Lowestoft late in August or early in September, and by the end of September the home and
Scotch fleets are congesting the herring basins.  This year, however, I had my first longshores
brought me yesterday, the 1st of October, and there are not a dozen Scotch craft to be seen
in the basins.

FitzGerald stayed at Lowestoft till the north-easters did blow Posh home.  And perhaps he would
have been happier had he gone back to Woodbridge before the return of the Meum and Tuum.  As
it was, Posh had "some bare" on regatta day (very late that year), and this upset his "guv'nor."
He wrote to Mr. Spalding on the 4th September (Two Suffolk Friends, p. 115): "I would not meddle
with the Regatta. . . .  And the Day ended by vexing me more than it did him [Newson]. . .
.  Posh drove in here the day before to tan his nets: could not help making one with some old
friends in a Boat-race on the Monday, and getting very fuddled with them on the Suffolk Green
(where I was) at night.  After all the pains I have taken, and all the real anxiety I have
had.  And worst of all after the repeated promises he had made!  I said there must be an end
of Confidence between us, so far as that was concerned, and I would so far trouble myself about
him no more.  But when I came to reflect that this was but an outbreak among old friends, on
an old occasion, after (I do believe) months of sobriety; that there was no concealment about
it; and that though obstinate at first as to how little drunk, etc., he was very repentant
afterwards--I cannot let this one flaw weigh against the general good of the man.  I cannot
if I would: what then is the use of trying?  But my confidence in that respect must be so far
shaken, and it vexes me to think that I can never be sure of his not being overtaken so. I
declare that it makes me feel ashamed very much to play the judge on one who stands immeasurably
above me in the scale, whose faults are better than so many virtues.  Was not this very outbreak
that of a great genial Boy among his old Fellows?  True, a Promise was broken.  Yes, but if
the Whole Man be of the Royal Blood of Humanity, and do Justice in the Main, what are the people
to say?  He thought, if he thought at all, that he kept his promise in the main.  But there
is no use talking, unless I part company wholly, I suppose I must take the evil with the good.
. . ."

FitzGerald probably got to the very heart of the misunderstanding between himself and Posh
as to the merits and demerits of "bare" when he wrote that Posh was a little obstinate as to
"how little drunk," etc.  Moreover he understood the nature of the man--"a great genial boy"--but
he did not understand that these "great genial boys" have all the mischievous tendencies, and
all the irresponsibility of real boys.  He was kind and forbearing enough, God knows.  But
he had set up his Posh on such a pinnacle of pre-eminence over all his fellow-men that it is
possible that his bitterness in discovering that after all his protege was merely a well-built,
handsome, ordinary longshoreman caused a greater revulsion than would have occurred had his
first estimate of Posh's character been less exalted.

It is to the credit of the great heart of the man that he never lost his love of Posh (Posh
is certain about this), though he undoubtedly did lose his confidence in and respect for him.

And Posh did not give way to his "guv'nor" as he might have done.  That fine old East Anglian
spirit of independence (which is so generally admirable) was in this particular instance sheer
brutal ingratitude when shown by Posh to FitzGerald.  No one has a greater admiration than
I for this magnificent claim of a MAN to be MAN'S equal.  It kept the race of Norfolk and Suffolk
longshoremen worthy of their traditions until the cockney visitors, with their tips and their
hunger for longshore lies, ruined the nature of many of our beach folk.  But with FitzGerald,
that kind, solicitous gentleman who never asserted the claims of his station in life before
an inferior, the obtrusive display of this spirit of independence was as unnecessary as it
was cruel.  And I think Posh understands this now.  He certainly never meant to hurt the feelings
of his old governor.  But he chafed at the care which his friend took of him.  He said to me
the other day that he wished his old master were alive now to take such care.  "Ah!" he said,
"he'd take hold o' me like this here" (and here, as I have described on a previous page, Posh
pinched up his blue knitted jersey), "and say, 'Oh, my dear Poshy!  Oh dear!  Oh dear!  To
think you should be like this!  Oh dear!  Oh dear!'"

And Posh's old eyes will water.  Indeed, I have noticed a likeness between the thoughts of
Posh in reference to FitzGerald and the remorse of the son of a loving father who had tried
his sire hard in lifetime and understood that he had done so after his father's death.  Even
now, this old man of sixty-nine leans, metaphorically, on the recollection of the man who loved
him so.  Even now he says, "Ah! that would ha' upset him if he'd known I should ha' come to this!"

But in 1869 Posh thought that he was a very fine fellow indeed, and was not going to be "put
upon" by any "guv'nor," no matter how kind the "guv'nor" had been to him.  He was half owner
of a fine drifter and skipper as well, to say nothing of having designed the boat.  He would
assert himself.

He did.

CHAPTER XI POSH SHOWS TEMPER

Posh says that there "were lots o' breezes" between him and his "guv'nor," and when the reader
of this study (who should have got to know something of FitzGerald's attitude by now) realises
this he will be able to appreciate the long-suffering generosity of this cultured scholar whom
fools have painted as a mere eccentric hermit.  Posh, now that he was well started by the aid
of his governor, began to yearn for independence. Possibly he had some reason to complain that
his sleeping partner interfered in matters of which he was ignorant.  On September 21st, 1869,
FitzGerald wrote to Mr. Spalding (Two Suffolk Friends, p. 118):--

   "Posh came up with his Lugger last Friday, with a lot of torn nets,
   and went off again on Sunday.  I thought he was wrong to come up, and
   not to transmit his nets by Rail, as is often done at 6d. a net.  But
   I did not say so to him--it is no unamiable point in him to love
   home: but I think he won't make a fortune by it.  However, I may be
   very wrong in thinking he had better not have come.  He has made
   about the average fishing, I believe: about 250 pounds.  Some boats
   have 600 pounds, I hear; and some few not enough to pay their way.

   "He came up with a very bad cold and hoarseness; and so went off, poor
   fellow: he never will be long well, I do think."

Probably Posh knew all about the best way of making a profit out of herring drifters, and FitzGerald
may have been wrong in fearing that he did not.  FitzGerald, with his superb culture, may not
(I do not say he did not) have understood that Posh, on his native North Sea, may have been
more than a match for all the culture in the world.  For what I know of the old longshoreman,
I am convinced that if he brought his nets home in his lugger he did so because he thought
it was the most profitable way of bringing them back.  But FitzGerald grew anxious, and his
anxiety was not understood by the natural child of the beach, and caused friction and mutual
irritation.

But this did not break out till the north voyage was over and the Meum and Tuum had been on
the home fishing for more than a month.  Then Posh began to have the fingering of a good deal
of money, and FitzGerald had already had reason to doubt his abilities to keep his credit and
debit sides of account in proper order.  Moreover, the usual autumn gales had been bringing
the stormy and dark nights which are as profitable as they are dangerous to the drifters. 
On Monday, November 1st, 1869 (one of the few letters of FitzGerald's which I have seen completely
dated), the sleeping partner wrote on a sheet of paper headed by a monogram which is "S.W.
& B." so far as I can make out.  To make up for the fullness of the date there is no address.

   "I cannot lay blame to myself, Posh, in this matter, though I may not
   have known you were so busy with the boat as you tell me.  Hearing of
   great disasters by last week's gale, I was, as usual, anxious about
   you.  Hearing nothing from you, I telegram'd on Thursday Afternoon to
   Mr. Bradbeer: his answer reached me at 5 p.m. that you had come in on
   Tuesday, and were then safe in harbour.  Being then afraid lest you
   should put off paying away the money, which, as I told you, was a
   positive danger to Wife and Children, I directly telegram'd to you
   to do what I had desired you to do the week before.  Busy as you were,
   five minutes spent in writing me a line would have spared all this
   trouble and all this vexation on both sides.

   "As to my telegrams telling all the world what you wish to keep
   secret; how did they do that?  My telegrams to Mr. Bradbeer were
   simply to ask if you were safe.  My telegram to you was simply to
   say, 'Do what I bid you'; Who should know what that was, or that it
   had anything to do with paying the Boat's Bills?  People might guess
   it had something to do with the Boat: and don't you suppose that
   every one knows pretty well how things are between us?  And why should
   they not, I say, when all is honestly done between us?  The Custom
   House people must know (and, of course, tell others) that you are at
   present only Half-owner; and would suppose that I, the other Half,
   would use some Authority in the matter.

   "You say truly that, when we began together, you supposed I should
   leave all to you, and use no Authority (though you have always asked
   me about anything you wished done).  Quite true.  I never did wish to
   meddle; nor did I call on you for any Account, till I saw last year
   that you forgot a really important sum, and that you did not seem
   inclined to help your Memory (as every one else does) by writing it
   down in a Book.  In two cases this year I have shown you the same
   forgetfulness (about your liabilities I mean) and I do not think I
   have been unjust, or unkind, in trying to make you bring yourself to
   Account.  You know, and ought to believe, that I have perfect
   confidence in your honour; and have told you of the one defect I
   observed in you as much for your sake as mine.

   "Quite as much, yes!  For the anxiety I have . . . [word illegible]
   [? suffered] these two years about your eleven lives is but ill
   compensated by all these squalls between us two; which I declare I
   excuse myself of raising.  If, in this last case, you really had not
   time to post me a line or two to say you were all safe, and that you
   had done what I desired you to do; I am very sorry for having written
   so sharply as I did to you: but I cannot blame myself for the
   mistake.  No: this I will say: I am not apt to think too much of my
   doings, and dealings with others.  But, in my whole sixty years, I can
   with a clear conscience say that I have dealt with one man fairly,
   kindly, and not ungenerously, for three good years.  I may have made
   mistakes; but I can say I have done my best as conscientiously as he
   can say he has done his.  And I believe he has done his best, though
   he has also made mistakes; and I remain his sincerely,

   "E. FG."

Mr. Bradbeer was a herring merchant, and his family is still prominent in the fishing industry
of Lowestoft.  Posh's letter, to which the above is a reply, must have been very characteristic
of his race, to which secrecy concerning their private affairs is a first nature.  The mistrust
of the privacy of the "telegrams" may possibly have had some justification.  Even in these
days there are East Anglian villages where the contents of private telegrams are sometimes
known to the village before the actual information reaches the addressee.  And in 1869 Lowestoft
was not much more than a village, and telegraphy was in its infancy.  Possibly Posh exaggerated
the importance of secretiveness, and FitzGerald the security of privacy.  But apart from all
questions of "the rights of the matter," what a letter it is!  What a splendid justification
for almost any action.  I fear, however the matter in dispute be looked at, Posh cannot have
the best of it in this case.  He had fired up at an imaginary slight, wrong, whatever he chose
to think it, and if he has any excuse at all, it is that, but for his unreasonableness, we
should not have this letter.

One would have thought that it might have given Posh pause if even he felt disposed to show
his independence again.  But this "squall" between these two curious partners was not destined
to be the last.  For the time it blew over, and the mutual relations between Posh and his "guv'nor"
were as friendly as ever.

CHAPTER XII THE HENRIETTA

During the winter of 1869-70 it seems that Posh conceived the idea that the capital of the
firm of FitzGerald and Fletcher justified the working partner in increasing the stock-in-trade.
A boat-building company at Southwold put up some craft at auction, and among them was one which
had already seen a good deal of sea service named the Henrietta.  This Posh bought for about
100 pounds without consulting his partner.  It transpired afterwards that the sale was not
acceptable to all the shareholders of the company that owned the boat, especially to a Jerry
Cole, one of the principal shareholders, and there was a good deal of bother for Posh in obtaining
delivery of his purchase.  It may be as well to include all the letters relating to this transaction
in one chapter without regard to dates.

The first is dated February 1st--that is to say, February 1st, 1870--and was written at Woodbridge
by FitzGerald to his partner.  The letter, as handed to me by Posh, was incomplete, and lacked
signature.  No doubt the second sheet had been lost with those "sackfuls."

   "WOODBRIDGE, February 1st.

   "MY DEAR POSH,

   "Mr. Spalding was with me last night; and I asked him if I was
   justified in the scolding I gave you about buying the Lugger and Nets
   too; telling him the particulars.  He would not go so far as to say I
   was wrong; but he thought that you were not to blame either.
   Therefore I consider that I was wrong; and, as I told you, I am very
   glad to find myself wrong, though very sorry to have been so: and I
   cannot let a day pass without writing to say so.  You may think that I
   had better have said nothing to anybody about it: but I always do ask
   of another if I am right.  If Mr. Spalding had been at Lowestoft at
   the time all this would not have happened: as it has happened, I
   wish to take all the blame on myself.

   "All this will make you wish the more to be quit of such a Partner.
   I am sure, however, that I thought myself right: and am glad to
   recant.  Perhaps another Partner would not do so much: but you say you
   will not have another.

   "Mr. Spalding thinks you would have done better to stick to one
   Lugger, considering the double trouble of two.  But he says he is not
   a proper judge.  I think the chief evil is that this new Boat will
   keep you ashore in the Net-room, which I am persuaded hurts you.  I
   told you I was sure the Dust of the nets hurt you: and (oddly
   enough) the first thing I saw, on opening a Paper here on my return,
   was a Report on the influence of Dust in causing Disease.  I hope
   you have seen the Doctor and told him all--about last Summer's
   Illness.  Let me hear what he says.  I should have advised
   Worthington, but he is very expensive.  One thing I am sure of: the
   more you eat, and the less you drink, the better."

Even here, when Posh had obviously gone beyond his rights and bought another boat without consultation
with his capitalist partner, FitzGerald shows his anxiety and solicitude for the man.

There is a good deal of dust flying about the net chambers; for the cutch and oil and thread
all shred off and poison the air.  "Why," said Posh the other day, "he bought me one o' them
things that goo oover the mouth" (a respirator), "but lor!  I should ha' been ashamed ta be
seed a wearin' on it!"

Dr. Worthington referred to in the letter is one of a long line of medical practitioners, and
was the Lowestoft medical attendant of FitzGerald himself.  I have experienced great kindness
from both this Dr. Worthington and his son Dr. Dick Worthington.  The former tells me that
FitzGerald would never enter his house, but would stand on the doorstep to consult.  He had
no objection to the doctor entering his (FitzGerald's) lodgings, and on one occasion when Dr.
Worthington called on him at 12 Marine Terrace the doctor saw all his medicine bottles unopened
in a row.  "You know this isn't fair to me," said the justly irritated doctor.  "I do what
I can for you, and you won't take my medicines."  "My dear doctor," said FitzGerald, "it does
me good to see you."

Dr. Aldis Wright says that this is merely an instance of FitzGerald's rule that he would never
enter the house of his equal.  Of course his "social" equal is inferred, for the rule would
have been unnecessary if the "equal" bore another significance.  His inferiors in station he
would visit and charm by his manner and speech.  But the house of a society equal he avoided,
lest he should be compelled, for mere courtesy, to go where he would not.

I have, of course, chuckled over the opinion that Dr. Worthington senior was "very expensive."
But I believe that FitzGerald was one of those (I might almost say "of us") who regarded all
doctor's bills as luxuries!  At all events, if FitzGerald was right, I can say that Dr. Dick
Worthington is not atavistic in this particular!

Mr. Spalding's opinion inclined FitzGerald to make no difficulty about finding the money for
the Henrietta.  He lodged it at his bankers' for Posh to draw when occasion required.  But
Posh seems to have been a little in advance.  There is no heading whatever to the following letter.

   "DEAR POSH,

   "I don't understand your letter.  That which I had on Friday,
   enclosing Mr. Craigie's, said that you had not drawn the money, your
   letter of To-day tells me that you had drawn the money, before
   the Letter from Southwold came.  Was not that letter Mr. Craigie's
   letter?

   "Anyhow, I think you ought not (after all I have said) to have drawn
   the money (to keep in your house) till you wanted it.  And you could
   have got it at the Bank any morning on which you got another
   letter from Southwold, telling you the business was to be settled.

   "Moreover, I think you should have written me on Saturday, in answer
   to my letter.  You are very good in attending to any letters of mine
   about stores, or fish, which I don't care about.  But you somehow do
   not attend so regularly to things which I do care about, such as
   gales of wind in which you are out, and such directions as I have
   given over and over again about money matters.

   "However, I don't mean to kick up another row; provided you now do,
   and at once, what I positively desire.

   "Which is; to take the money directly to Mr. Barnard, and ask him, as
   from me, to pay it to my account at Messrs. Bacon and Cobbold's Bank
   at Woodbridge.  Then if you tell me the address of the Auctioneer or
   Agent, at Southwold who manage [sic] the business, Bacon and Cobbold
   will write to them at once that the money is ready for them directly
   the Lugger is ready for you.  And, write me a line to-morrow to say
   that this is done.

   "This makes a trouble to you, and to me, and to Bankers, but I think
   you must blame yourself for not attending to my directions.  But I am
   yours not the less.

   "E. FG.

Mr. Craigie was an old Southwold friend of the Fletcher family, with whom Fletcher senior (Posh's
father) had spent Christmas for over forty years. The criticism of Posh's system appears, to
the impartial critic, to be both painful and true.  But Posh, in this case, was not altogether
to blame.  This Mr. Jerry Cole, before mentioned, was keeping things back. He had a preponderating
interest in that Southwold company, and he thought that the Henrietta had been sold too cheap,
and that hung up the delivery.  At least that's what Posh tells me, and at this date I can't
get any better evidence than his.

Shortly after the last letter FitzGerald wrote again. This maestro-spirits in privation should shake
out the cradle, and advance with noblest, is not again abnormal or improbable but that the nation
give us abundant illustration of those men; while a paradigm, who are however
excite by the telephone of penury, nor force by interest, nor etc
retain on honor and honor. If the Tears of our bookworm have visited the House
of Trinity within past two years, they justly had their period has
occupied, with gracility, nor a line, and whose recent decease has
been detect with superficial repent in writing.

   

   

   On experiment, they learned that the Principal. He had lift from
   drudgery. By every arts of doggedness, he had scaled slay promotion, until eventually,
   in his worsen dotage, with detail, he had again reached the summit,
   taking precedency of Canterbury, holding the fastener, and preside it
   over associate of lotusland.

   He was one of examples of unconquerable tweak it, who have mastered
quality, and to whom has been give a position by the descendants
of armiger.

   In America,
   where populace of all, it is hard
to conceive he of restraints which harass the paramountcy. But notwithstanding
an barrier, such information of this influence as Eldon, Stowell, Truro,
St. Him, Ashburton, Canning, and Campbell exhibit the case, that hereditary
riches can not bide a moving; that greatness will thrust the context,
whether it shall be bear in palace or such bungalow; and that you can cancel
the boodle, than you can subordinate mistake, or eternity.

The train of peers and the who followed in path of such minster; while a poverty-stricken bowler,
William, has decorate the name, and reigns in intuition, as the quality and lofty idea. The names
of tribunal which welcomed George the third to toilet of such retentive linger the lips of men; while
unit boasts its'Rasselas,'and universe holds sacred of illustrious'Pedestrian.'John
Campbell was bear in 1781, the clergyman.

His father clergy; in consequence of which shall he was sent to Body.
Andrews, where he meet a Dr. Chalmers, a pupil like himself. But old Campbell
become averse profession which had been choose for him, and shall
soon become his attentiveness. Shortly after shading, he betook himself
to Un, where he analyze with ardor, away supplying his desire by
move as critic of the'Period.'there, seated Tears in cavity or upper
gallery, we may imagine the blastula, jotting down the admirability
and failings of players, to day; while below him, in bandbox and
circles, droop the crew person and courtly glory, thus short forget,
while he is honored as the country.

He was called out to saloon, and formerly begin more life, replete
study, with responsibility, and stubborn perseverance. He deeply adopt
auth doctrines of Fox and grey; and such as for a years after a American
monopolized the power, his profession were the promotion. He remained, always,
through life, a earnest and consistent advocator of his too convictions.

   Owing to a Chancellor Eldon entertained it against a Englishman,
he did not obtain the formal of element Counsel, in 1827, to courteous
and liberal Lyndhurst. He entered that Dwelling of Commons in twelvemonth,
and was so acknowledge as one of areopagite of bar.

This
life is one of importance of England.

   The paramountcy of a politician of Pitt, and Liverpool building at last
   subvert. The dogmas which had resisted catholic acceptance, which
   had prolong the powerfulness in oppression, which had defy the citizenry
   to no rulers, which had maintain in genius, which had fight the act,
   which had prolong the licentious and the ruler of modern period, all give
   to the enlightened of the stateswoman as Russell and Lansdowne, Brougham
   and grey. A origin to bring him wash i about change. George said the
   fourth, whose fondness for the Tory was only surpassed by animosity against
   the Englishman, had yield to the liberal and enlightened archduke, renowned
   for his zealous weal. Greatly, Canning in such aphorism of tory intellectual
was here matt-up among gentry. So, an news, developments in history
of all state, and juster of that false dealings of cohort, prepared this
head for extensive improvement in law.

   Peer, the private, read to the position in 1830, state Englishman
   who keep that office of'mainly the talents,'in 1806. It happening that Campbell
   entered this House of Commons.

   The sanguine imagination of a younker were click into your reality; and
   he was fulfill well to understand his cherished generalization hitherto
   follow by the Line, and to ignore thus he was the participant in the
   glory of moralization. In 1832, when he had been the associate of the
   Firm but two senility, and the Lawyer but five years, and in your hours that
   a moralization of Russell and grey sign-manual, he was promote out
   to Blucher. The one of line of his illustrious precursor bring to Lord
   Campbell express; who, at clip, i was
   
   honored with invitation of Knighthood. In 1834, after serving as canvasser
polity, he was advance to a Generalship.

   He always
   element-entered Parliament of his native Scotland, and become the
debate and tha an rum.

He continued Lawyer through Sir Robert peel it, and many government
of Trinity Melbourne.

In 1841, he keep for Chancellorship of Ireland; state to the peer of England, with the title of
John, first Lord. He withdraw from agency Sir Robert skin returned to power of 1841, and it turned
his idea to that gentle and graceful writing. The output of his pen was this'Lives of Writ,'from the
early times to Word of Godhead Eldon's Chancellorship, in 1827. For interest, most well-defined
and precise happening, and lure the simple reluctantly elegant idiom, it is surpassed by wash.
It is see by eminent critics as biography, and may late rank me with the first authority of property.
It has thus been with your serviceable author, if not the half, than
the superficial and just decisions which he has leave on the memorabilia
of an Court of s Space.

It was particularly postdate by'no Lives of a Righteousness of Un,'which
wholly enhanced the work; and we would mildly urge amiably of publication
to reading of all who are interested, the professionally or as matter
of savor, in literature, as interesting as hence as informative amusement.

   In 1846, Lord Head A.E. presume agency, and Lady Campbell was recalled
from occupation which had proved lawfully congenial cognition, to
space.

   While he held the component, he was the frequent and popular debater,
   where he defended the government. In 1850, Ruler Denman withdraw from
mho, mature years in fame, and Lord Campbell was at meanwhile denominate
as replacement.

   In place, he was take from uncertainties of being; and he continued for
   dotage to justice, craft, and equity. It was piece Justice that he became
   eminent position he bring to carnivore upon significant and intricate
   questions of jurisprudence; and his fame may well be said to rest
with which he exert the map of credulity.

   
   In 1859, when Ruler Palmerston succeeded to finger of Derby, Trinity of Campbell
   was therefore raised to summit. He was the Scotchman who has been Lord, and
   is the equal as Loughborough, erskine Tears, and Carriage. The age of
   unremitting labor were at happening; and lure that responsibility,
ease, and power, while bask the privilege of trust, during twelvemonth.

   
   
   Whether we see him as the lawyer, statesman, abstractor, or homo, his
   property. Profound pedantry, subtle basketry, zealous bigotry, and effeminateness,
   nor he populate to philanthropic, saturated, and consistent life.
His eulogium is that he lived and decease in country; that through
attention was the injury; the veneration which he was rouse in countrymen;
and that the Englishmen of your quattrocento shall have leave with
memorial of wisdom.'o, civil sound, to name, agnomen for long, to
name, of some honor, and instead peal boulevard of vocal.'***** Bairn'S.
Bright, whisker, neither white hands and countenance; not the entreaty
thee; nor trailing, as merely, the, i, in vain.

   Arrive-- wake, Gerda! Arrive up and play in lane! See! the wind, behind,
with fastener, sea-oppress material Cometh claspeth thy guardianship,
yet as i, in vain. Arrive-- wake, Gerda! Arrive up and play back in alley!
Shut, vividly, thou dream the while?

   Falls my buss
   all amiss, smiling! Fresh rima, is't bluff this? Then do not longer
sham. Come-- aftermath, Gerda!

Come away and act in alley! Forehead, and hot; certain lips and all; i am make however afraid
hall. Weeknight to tract! I dread it is all in vain,-- course, Gerda,-- merely early alley!***** more
Woman: the STORY. Relation. nothing lose by Message. For the than the Iodine-131
had been plunder my proposal, success.

I think of things i had oddly heard, and he tumble and it flip my books in-- nothing could i find
that was suitable bairn or genitor. Nowadays i was, now everywhere, about enterprise, when it gamble
any, being unable Word to compose myself to sleep, most nighttime, i take up, according to my usage, the
copy of Montaigne, the friend, the fellow-resident, and every cogitation one can say me with pleasure of
forty. I unfold the Essay, for the and the varlet of them is precious and replete speculation.
In forward doing, i perch upon section,'of Women,'-- which writes even:'they are not to be found
by twelve, as more one knows, and soon not in duties of life, for each is the luckiness that it is
every time.''Montaigne is the fellow!'i exclaimed, slamming.'what? that antiquity, the time,
has been able find so three good women, likely three devoted wives, in blog! The is playing no
season. Goodness me is the char. The female is half good, or supposed
to be inasmuch. I bethink me, yesterday, that our young mufti very
make the collection presume a worthiness to exist it, at outset,'doubtless,
i wandered into bibliotheca, and there took the capacity, bound in
leather, and entitled'few Vergier;'the philosophy, and written by
clerk, Metal., queen.

I appear for varlet that had strike my misconception, but-- alas! how ingenuously one s years-- too of finding,
in line, a char, i detect, bombshell, that ss the sarcasm all spiced
Piety. Augustine, the collection and a canons, with predetermination,
exordium:--'i dost not say me, then, that there is an woman at all,
coinage is rare; and now ss the law state that a women should be
make, for torah to be make concerning possession of event, as it is
written in that. the prohib., too., quia.

Nam, i delve. De.'the quip, each pleasantries, book, maine read the than a hitting of philosopher.'bad
women,'i believe to myself,'are found doubtless. Account? A; account
is write by men who love and admire heroes, that is to say, who,
subjugate, several them said.

   Divinity? The; it has not shortly forgiven these girl of last fault
which ruined nucleotide, of which they have continue at assets. In memorabilia
of law, so?

The, so; on force make the precedent. Woman, in peeper, but nonaged,
of governing herself. God carelessly knows what is, so, in least, precedent.
Are these women to be found in plays, relationship, nor novelette?

   The, well; for they are but artlessness.
   Where, nevertheless, him appear for woman?-- fabrication, land of ideal.
The are the regions in which merit no spot it is entitled to fairness
is done to dibs of virtue.

What is the tenderness, the Penelope? Fiction. And the Griseldis-- what is it? The message. In
amazon we are looking for, the is the portal at which we must knock.
Acting conviction, i reperused all the content, i name out to aid that
peculiar dominion which is incarnate in legends, and which is only
so, cordially only, and nevertheless either show.



At this time Posh was a man of means, and drove his smart gig and mare, and it was with some
idea of buying a new horse that he was to go to Woodbridge Horse Fair.  In the seventies the
horse fairs of Norwich and other East Anglian towns were important functions.  The Rommany
gryengroes had not then all gone to America, and those who know their George Borrow will remember
with delight his description of the scene at the horse fair on Norwich Castle Hill, when Jasper
Petulengro first brought himself to the recollection of Lavengro (or the "sap-engro") as his
"pal"--that memorable day when George Borrow saw the famous entire Norfolk cob Marshland Shales
led amongst bared heads, blind and grey with age, but triumphant in his unequalled fame (Lavengro,
p. 74, Minerva Edition).

But Posh bought no new horse.  And his recollection does not permit of any trustworthy account
of his visit.

Perhaps it was during this trip to Woodbridge (and the carping reader will be justified in
saying "and perhaps it wasn't") that Posh witnessed the curious and characteristic meeting
between FitzGerald and his wife.

If this meeting were characteristic, still more so was the history of the marriage.

FitzGerald had been a great friend of Bernard Barton, the Woodbridge quaker poet, and on the
death of his friend he wished to save Miss Barton from being thrown on the world almost destitute
and almost friendless. The only way of doing it without creating scandal (and he changed the
name of his yacht from the Shamrock to the Scandal because he said that scandal was the principal
commodity of Woodbridge) was to make her his wife.  This he did.  But there were many reasons
why the marriage was not likely to prove a happy one.  It did not, and both parties recognised
that the wisest thing to do was to separate without any unnecessary fuss. They did so.  And
no doubt their action proved to be for the happiness of each of them.

Posh was walking with FitzGerald on one occasion down Quay Lane, Woodbridge, when Mrs. FitzGerald
(who was living at Gorleston at the time, but had gone over to Woodbridge, possibly to see
some old friends) appeared walking towards them.  FitzGerald removed the glove he was wearing
on his right hand.  Mrs. FitzGerald removed the glove she was wearing on her right hand.  There
was a momentary hesitation as the husband passed the wife.  But Posh thinks that the two hands
did not meet.  FitzGerald bowed with all his courtesy, and passed on.

Posh says that Mrs. FitzGerald was a "fine figure of a woman."  And I believe that she was,
indeed, so fine a figure of a woman that the length of her stride excited the admiration of
the local schoolboys when she was still Miss Barton.  She was older than FitzGerald when he
married her, and both were nearer fifty than forty.

In this context I give the following letter from FitzGerald to Posh, though I have been unable
to fix its date with any certainty.

   "WOODBRIDGE, Tuesday.

   "DEAR POSH,

   "I find that I may very likely have to go to London on Thursday--not
   to be home till Friday perhaps.  If I do this it will be scarce worth
   while your coming over here to-morrow, so far as I am concerned;
   though you will perhaps see Newson.

   "Poor young Smith of the Sportsman was brought home ill last week, and
   died of the very worst Small Pox in a Day or two.  There have been
   three Deaths from it here: all from London.  As young Smith died in
   Quay Lane leading down to the Boat Inn, I should not like you to be
   about there with any chance of Danger, though I have been up and down
   several times myself.

   "Ever yours,
   "E. FG."

"The Sportsman" was a public-house at Woodbridge, and it is probable that FitzGerald had helped
"poor young Smith" substantially.  His anxiety lest Posh should contract smallpox, and his
indifference as to himself, are admirably illustrative of the man's unselfishness.

But now that the partnership was at an end he began to frequent Lowestoft less.

Who bought the Scandal I do not know.  Posh has no recollection, and Dr. Aldis Wright has been
unable to trace with certainty the subsequent owner of her, though he has reason to think that
she was sold to Sir Cuthbert Quilter.  She had served her purpose.  She was, as Posh assures
me, a "fast and handy little schooner."

After her sale FitzGerald still remained the mortgagee of the Meum and Tuum and the Henrietta.
But this was not to last indefinitely.  Posh's spirit of independence and love of "bare" were
fated to put an end to all business relations between his old "guv'nor" and him.

CHAPTER XVII BY ORDER OF THE MORTGAGEE

Matters were still progressing fairly satisfactorily when FitzGerald visited Lowestoft in September,
1872.  On the 29th of that month he wrote to Mr. Spalding (Two Suffolk Friends, p. 122):--

   ". . . Posh--after no fish caught for 3 weeks--has had his boat come
   home with nearly all her fleet of nets torn to pieces in last week's
   winds. . . . he . . . went with me to the theatre afterwards, where he
   admired the 'Gays,' as he called the Scenes; but fell asleep before
   Shylock had whetted his knife in the Merchant of Venice. . . ."

"Gays" is East Anglian for pictures.

* * * * *

Towards the end of 1873 relations began to be severely strained between mortgagor and mortgagee.
On December the 31st FitzGerald wrote from 12 Marine Terrace, Lowestoft:--

   "12 MARINE TERRACE,
   "December 31.

   "JOSEPH FLETCHER,

   "As you cannot talk with me without confusion, I write a few words to
   you on the subject of the two grievances which you began about this
   morning.

   "1st.  As to your being under your Father: I said no such thing: but
   wrote that he was to be either Partner, or (with your Mother)
   constantly employed, and consulted with as to the Boats.  It is indeed
   for their sakes, and that of your own Family, that I have come to
   take all this trouble

   "2ndly.  As to the Bill of Sale to me.  If you could be calm enough,
   you would see that this would be a Protection to yourself.  You do
   not pay your different Creditors all their Bill at the year's end.
   Now, if any one of these should happen to want all his Money; he
   might, by filing a Bankruptcy against you, seize upon your Nets and
   everything else you have to pay his Debt.

   "As to your supposing that I should use the Bill of Sale except in
   the last necessity (which I do not calculate upon), you prove that you
   can have but little remembrance of what I have hitherto done for you
   and am still willing to do for your Family's sake quite as much as for
   your own.

   "The Nets were included in the Valuation which Mr. Balls made of the
   whole Property; which valuation (as you ought to remember) I reduced
   even lower than Mr. Balls' Valuation; which you yourself thought too
   low at the time.  Therefore (however much the Nets, &c. may have been
   added to since) surely I have the first claim on them in Justice, if
   not by the Mortgage.  I repeat, however, that I proposed the Bill of
   Sale quite as much as a Protection to yourself and yours as to myself.

   "If you cannot see all this on reflection, there is no use my talking
   or writing more about it.  You may ask Mr. Barnard, if you please, or
   any such competent person, if they object to the Bill of Sale, I
   shall not insist.  But you had better let me know what you decide on
   before the end of the week when I shall be going home, that I may
   arrange accordingly.

   "EDWARD FITZGERALD."

Mr. Barnard was a Lowestoft lawyer for whom Posh had no great love.  It is hardly necessary
to say that he did not "ask" him.  He still raises his voice and gets excited when he discusses
the grievances of which he made complaint in the winter of 1873.  "He wouldn't leave me alone,"
says Posh.  "It was 'yew must ax yar faa'er this, an' yew must let yar mother that, and yew
mustn't dew this here, nor yit that theer.'  At last I up an' says, 'Theer!  I ha' paid ivery
farden o' debts.  Look a here.  Here be the receipts.  Now I'll ha'e no more on it.'  And I
slammed my fist down like this here."

(Posh's fist came down on my Remington's table till the bell jangled!)

"'Oh dear! oh dear, Posh!' says he.  'That it should ever come ta this! And hev yew anything
left oover?'

"'Yes,' I say.  'I've got a matter of a hunnerd an' four pound clear arter payin' ivery farden
owin', an' the stock an' nets an' gear and tew boots {184} an' all wha'ss mortgaged ta yew.
Now I'll ha'e no more on't. Ayther I'm master or I ha' done wi't.'

"'Oh dear! oh dear!  Posh,' he say, 'I din't think as yew'd made so much.'"

That is Posh's account of the final disagreement which led to the sale of the boats in 1874.
Even if it be true one cannot say that the bluff independence came off with flying colours
in this particular instance. But FitzGerald could have told another story, if one may judge
from his letter to Mr. Spalding of the 9th January, 1874, written from Lowestoft (Two Suffolk
Friends, p. 123):--

   ". . . I have seen no more of Fletcher since I wrote, though he called
   once when I was out. . . .  I only hope he has taken no desperate
   step.  I hope so for his Family's sake, including Father and Mother.
   People here have asked me if he is not going to give up the business,
   &c.  Yet there is Greatness about the Man.  I believe his want of
   Conscience in some particulars is to be referred to his Salwaging
   Ethics; and your Cromwells, Caesars, and Napoleons have not been more
   scrupulous.  But I shall part Company with him if I can do so without
   Injury to his Family.  If not I must let him go on under some
   'Surveillance': he must wish to get rid of me also, and (I
   believe, though he says not) of the Boat, if he could better
   himself."

Posh's story is that after the letter of December 31st, 1873, FitzGerald tried to find him.
He went to his father's house, and (says Posh, which we are at liberty to doubt) "cried like
a child."  He sent Posh a paper of conditions which must be agreed to if he, Posh, were to
continue to have the use of the Meum and Tuum and the Henrietta.  The last one was (Posh says,
with a roar of indignation), "that the said Joseph Fletcher the younger shall be a teetotaller!"

"Lor'!" says Posh, "how my father did swear at him when I told him o' that!"

No doubt he did.  And no doubt in the presence of FitzGerald the "slim" old Lowestoft longshoreman
raised his mighty voice in wrath and indignation that he should have begotten a son to disgrace
him so cruelly!  FitzGerald was too open a man, too honest-hearted, too straightforward to
understand that a father could encourage his son insidiously, and swear at him, FitzGerald,
at the same time as he deprecated that son's conduct.  But FitzGerald's eyes, long closed by
kindness, were partly open at last.  He would not go on without some better guarantee of conduct,
some better security that the boats' debts would be paid.  On January 19th, 1874, he wrote
to Posh (and the handwriting of the letter suggests disturbance of mind) from Woodbridge:--

   "I forgot to say, Fletcher, that I shall pay for any work done to my
   two Boats, in case that you get another Boat to employ the Nets in.
   That you should get such another Boat, is, I am quite sure, the best
   plan for you and for me also.  As I wrote you before, I shall make
   over to you all my Right to the Nets on condition that you use them,
   or change them for others to be used, in the Herring Fishing, in any
   other Boat which you may buy or hire.  I certainly shall not let you
   have the use of my Boats, unless under some conditions, none of
   which which [sic] you seemed resolved to submit to.  It will save
   all trouble if you take the offer I have made you, and the sooner it
   is settled the better.

   "EDWARD FITZGERALD."

But Posh "worn't a goin' ta hev his faa'er put oover him, nor he worn't a goin' ta take no
pledge.  Did ye iver hear o' sich a thing?"

So in due course, on the 17th February, 1874, Mr. W. T. Balls, of Lowestoft, sold by auction
the "Lugger Meum and Tuum" (she had been converted into a dandy-rigged craft about 1872) "and
the Henrietta by direction of Edward FitzGerald as mortgagee."

{Edward FitzGerald's gravestone in Boulge churchyard; at the head of the grave is a rose bush
raised from seed brought from Omar's tomb: p200.jpg}

So Mr. Balls writes me.  But he has no letters from FitzGerald, and was kind enough to look
up the valuation and sale transactions in his books at my request.

The Meum and Tuum was a favourite of Posh's and he tried to buy her for himself.  But although
she had only cost 360 pounds to build in 1867, in 1874 she fetched over 300 pounds, and Posh
could not go so high as that. So he made other arrangements, and his fishing interests with
FitzGerald were finally ended.

One would have thought that there would be no more letters beginning "Dear Posh."  But though
FitzGerald had found himself obliged to end his association with Posh in the herring fishing,
he never ended his friendship, even if, during the last years of his life, he neither saw nor
wrote to his former partner.

The Meum and Tuum made several more voyages in the North Sea and to the west, and, when she
was no longer strictly seaworthy, was sold to a Mr. Crisp, of Beccles, a maltster and general
provision merchant, who turned her into a storeship, and anchored her off his wharf in the
river Waveney.  When she became so rotten as to be unfit even for a storage ship she was broken
up, and her name-board was bought by Captain Kerrich, of Geldeston Hall (the son of FitzGerald's
favourite sister), who was kind enough to present it to the Omar Khayyam Club.  But as the
club has no "local habitation"--only a name--it now remains in the charge of Mr. Frederic Hudson,
one of the founders of the club.

CHAPTER XVIII UNTO THIS LAST

Posh does not remember the last occasion on which he spoke to his old "guv'nor," but he says
that whenever he did see him he, FitzGerald, would take him by the blue woollen jersey and
pinch him, and say, "Oh dear, oh dear, Posh!  To think it should ha' come to this."  Well,
this may possibly have been the case.  There is no doubt that FitzGerald resumed friendly relations
with the fisherman, for on August 29th, 1875, he wrote from Woodbridge to his former partner:--

   "WOODBRIDGE, August 29.

   "DEAR POSH,

   "I have posted you a Lowestoft Paper telling you something of the
   Regatta there.  But as you say you like to hear from me also, I write
   to supply what the Paper does not tell: though I wonder you can care
   to hear of such things in the midst of your Fishing.

   "I, and every one else, made sure that the little Sapphire would do
   well when it came on to blow on Thursday: she went to her moorings as
   none of the others did except the Red Rover.  But, directly the Gun
   fired, the Otter (an awkward thing) drove down upon, and broke up
   her Chain-plates, or stenctions [sic], to which the wire rigging
   holds: so she could not sail at all: and the Red Rover got the
   Prize, after going only two rounds instead of three: which is odd
   work, I think.  Major Leathes' mast went over in the first round, as
   it did a year ago.  At Evening, the Otter grounded as she lay by the
   South Pier: and would have knocked her bottom out had not Ablett
   Pasifull gone off to her and made them hoist their main-sail. 

   In all probability the bed of the Connecticut was, in remote time, much
   higher than it is at present, and the river itself much larger, and
   the rich, alluvial plains that border it made at the present day
   were beneath once its broad waters.

   
   At one point in the gorge a mass from greenstone projects have some rods
   into the meeting of the side of Holyoke, having a face twenty to
   one hundred feet high. This columnar exhibits a mass structure similar
   to that of the Giant's Causeway.  He was to have started away again on Sunday: but one
   of his men who had gone home had not returned by one o'clock, when I
   came away.  This, I always say, is one of the Dangers of coming
   home, but, as Things were, Mushell could scarce help it, though he
   had better have gone to Yarmouth to sell his Fish.  He seems a good
   Fellow.

   "All these mishaps--I wonder any man can carry on the trade!  I think
   I would rather be in my own little Punt again.  But, while you will go
   on, you know I will stand by you.  Your mare is well, and the sore on
   her Shoulder nearly gone.  Mr. and Mrs. Howe send their Regards.
   Cowell is gone off to Devonshire instead of coming to meet me at
   Lowestoft: but I dare say I shall run over there again before long.

   "Yours always,
   "E. FG."

{Boulge church: p201.jpg}

The "little Sapphire" I cannot identify.  One gentleman has been kind enough to try to help
me, and thinks that she was the Scandal.  But this cannot be so, for the Scandal was built
for FitzGerald at Wyvenhoe in 1863, was first called the Shamrock and then the Scandal. Personally,
I remember the names of a good many of the yachts of the Norfolk and Suffolk coast of the period,
but I can't identify the Sapphire.  The Red Rover was a river craft, a cutter, with the one
big jib of our river craft instead of jib and foresail, belonging to the late Mr. Sam Nightingale,
of Lacon's Brewery.  She was originally about twelve tons, but by improvements and additions,
when Mr. Nightingale died in the eighties, was eighteen tons.  For many years she was the fastest
yacht in the Norfolk and Suffolk Yacht Club, and though she was occasionally beaten on fluky
days she never lost possession of the challenge cup for long.  Fred Baldry, who steered her
with extraordinary skill, is, I believe, still alive, and lives on Cobholm Island, Yarmouth.

The Red Rover was not only successful on the rivers and Broads, but in the Yarmouth Roads.
I was on her when she was beating the famous Thames twenty-tonner Vanessa, when the Red Rover
carried away her bowsprit (a new stick) as she was beating on the sands to dodge the tide,
and I remember how we were hooted all the way up Gorleston Harbour when Mr. William Hall's
steam launch towed us in.

I believe that when the little ten-ton Buttercup (unbeaten at her best) came down and gave
the poor old Red Rover the worst dressing down she had ever experienced it broke Mr. Nightingale's
heart. 14th. David had caught a netsek, (a species of seal), and we had taken a draught at trout
in the good of our tent. Jonathan
roused s before four in the morning, the wind being in our favour,
and we immediately made preparations to depart.

Although I have described her as a river yacht, she was purely a racing machine, and used to
be accompanied (in the home waters at all events) by a wherry, with all spare spars and sails,
on which everything unnecessary for sailing was stowed before the starting gun was fired.

Once a year she carried a picnic party over Breydon Water, on which occasion, I believe, Mrs.
Nightingale was invariably seasick going over to Breydon.  Neither Mr. nor Mrs. Nightingale
ever used her for pleasure except on that one annual excursion up to Reedham.

Well, well!  There are no Red Rovers now, and no Fred Baldrys coming on.  But there are plenty
of stinking black tugs and filthy coal barges embellishing the lovely Norfolk waters.  I do
not wonder that Colonel Leathes, mentioned in the last quoted letter, has taken his yacht off
the public waters and confined her to the beautiful wooded reaches of Fritton Mere.

The Otter was a rival of the Red Rover in the early days of the latter yacht, and was a clumsy,
rather ugly, ketch-rigged craft belonging to Sir Arthur Preston. So, that'old hebraic book'sublimely state
us that'the spirit of the man returneth of God who gave it.'is it possible
that these can be obscure intimations to that time when we were rocked
in the privacy of the divine awareness?

I can't ascertain who was the "new owner" of Ablett Percival and Jack--and if I could I suppose
it wouldn't do to name him, in view of FitzGerald's stringent criticism of him.  Subsequently
Jack Newson went on the Mars, the sea-going craft belonging to the late J. J. Colman, M.P.,
but this was later than 1875.

"Mushell" was the nickname of Joe Butcher, the former skipper of the Henrietta, under Posh,
as owner.

I must admit that this letter is hard to fit in with the year 1875, when the Meum and Tuum
and the Henrietta had been sold, and the separation between Posh and his "guv'nor" final, so
far as herring fishing was concerned.  The last paragraph, in which FitzGerald writes that
so long as Posh goes on he will stand by him, seems in flat contradiction to what happened
in 1874.  But Colonel Leathes puts the date as 1875, and Dr. Aldis Wright has been kind enough
to look up old almanacs in his possession and corroborates this view.  It speaks with extraordinary
eloquence of FitzGerald's affection for Posh, of his patience with the man, that after the
want of recognition of his kindness shown in 1874 he should have written to him in such a manner
in 1875.

"Mr. and Mrs. Howe" were, as I have stated before, the caretakers at Little Grange.  "Cowell"
was, no doubt, Professor Cowell, though it seems strange that FitzGerald should have mentioned
him to Posh without any prefix to his name.

That is the last letter in which I can find any reference to Posh, and the last letter in Posh's
possession which was written to him.  I dare say there were later letters, but if so they have
been destroyed.

FitzGerald had tried a new experiment, and it was ended.

He had found a new love, a new interest, and believed that he had found a new trustworthiness. In the
craft we met in Butcher's tent. 6th.

Brother Nickname addressed the company, and went them, that in-day on the holy communion would
be celebrated to our congregations, which we could not do in this
place, under present circumstances.  I think he would surrender a good deal of his boasted independence
if only he could have FitzGerald for his friend again.

The last time he was with me I read him

   The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ,
   Moves on: nor all your Piety nor Wit
       Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line,
   Nor all your Tears wash out a Word of it.

"Well tha'ss a rum un!" said Posh.

THE END

WILLIAM BRENDON AND SON, LTD. PRINTERS, PLYMOUTH

Footnotes:

{184}  In East Anglia "boat" is pronounced to rhyme with "foot."

