Secondly, as to freedom in the French colonies. Of course, freedom itself, no matter how good
it is and how much we love it, would have been nothing without the protection of fleets. All
the freedom in the world cannot hold two countries on opposite sides of the sea together without
the link of strong fleets. But even the strongest fleet would not have helped New France to
grow as fast and as well as New England grew. The French people were not free in the motherland.
They were not free as colonists in Canada. All kinds of laws and rules were made for the Canadians
by persons thousands of miles away. This interference came from men who knew scarcely anything
about Canada. They had crude notions as to what should be done, and sometimes they ordered
the men on the spot to do impossible things. The result was that the men on the spot, if they
were bad enough and clever enough, just hoodwinked the government in France, and did in Canada
what they liked and what made for their own profit.

Now, Bigot the intendant, the man of affairs in the colony, was on the spot; and he was one
of the cleverest knaves ever known, with a feeble colony in his power. He had nothing to fear
from the people, the poor, helpless French Canadians. He had nothing to fear from their governor,
the vain, incompetent Vaudreuil. He was, moreover, three thousand miles away from the French
court, which was itself full of parasites. He had been given great power in Canada. As intendant
he was the head of everything except the army, the navy, and the church. He had charge of all
the public money and all the public works and whatever else might be called public business.
Of course, he was supposed to look after the interests of France and of Canada, not after his
own; and earlier intendants like Talon had done this with perfect honesty. But Bigot soon organized
a gang of men like himself, and gathered into his grasping hands the control of the private
as well as of the public business.

One example will show how he worked. Whenever food became dangerously scarce in Canada the
intendant's duty was to buy it up, to put it into the king's stores, and to sell out only enough
for the people to live on till the danger was over. There was a reason for this, as Canada,
cut off from France, was like a besieged fortress, and it was proper to treat the people as
a garrison would be treated, and to make provision for the good of the whole. But when Bigot
had formed his gang, and had, in some way, silenced Vaudreuil, he declared Canada in danger
when it was not, seized all the food he could lay hands on, and sent it over to France; sent
it, too, in the king's ships, that it might be carried free. Then he made Vaudreuil send word
to the king that Canada was starving. In the meantime, his friends in France had stored the
food, and had then assured the king that there was plenty of grain in hand which they could
ship to Canada at once. The next step was to get an order from the king to buy this food to
be shipped to Canada. This order was secured through influential friends in Paris, and, of
course, the price paid by the king was high. The food was then sent back to Canada, again in
the king's ships. Then Bigot and his friends in Canada put it not into the king's but into
their own stores in Quebec, sold it to the king's stores once more, as they had sold it in
France, and then effected a third sale, this time to the wretched French Canadians from whom
they had bought it for next to nothing at first. Thus both the king and the French Canadians
were each robbed twice over, thanks to Vaudreuil's complaisance and Bigot's official position
as also representing the king.

Bigot had been some time in Canada before Vaudreuil arrived as governor in 1755. He had already
cheated a good deal. But it was only when he found out what sort of man Vaudreuil was that
he set to work to do his worst. Bigot was a knave, Vaudreuil a fool. Vaudreuil was a French
Canadian born and very jealous of any one from France, unless the Frenchman flattered him as
Bigot did. He loved all sorts of pomp and show, and thought himself the greatest man in America.
Bigot played on this weakness with ease and could persuade him to sign any orders, no matter
how bad they were.

Now, when an owl like Vaudreuil and a fox like Bigot were ruining Canada between them, they
were anything but pleased to see a lion like Montcalm come out with an army from France. Vaudreuil,
indeed, had done all he could to prevent the sending out of Montcalm. He wrote to France several
times, saying that no French general was needed, that separate regiments under their own colonels
would suffice, and that he himself could command the regulars from France, just as he did the
Canadians.

But how did he command the Canadians? By law every Canadian had to serve as a soldier, without
pay, whenever the country was in danger. By law every man needed for carrying supplies to the
far-off outposts could also be taken; but, in this case, he had to be paid. Now, all the supplies
and the carriage of them were under Bigot's care. So when the Canadians were called out as
soldiers, without pay, Bigot's gang would ask them if they would rather go and be shot for
nothing or carry supplies in safety for pay. Of course, they chose the carrier's work and the
pay, though half the pay was stolen from them. At the same time their names were still kept
on the muster rolls as soldiers. This was the reason why Montcalm often had only half the militia
called out for him: the other half were absent as carriers, and the half which remained for
Montcalm was made up of those men whom Bigot's friends did not think good enough for carriers.

But there were more troubles still for Montcalm and his army. As governor, Vaudreuil was, of
course, the head of everything in the country, including the army. This was right enough, if
he had been fit for his post, because a country must have a supreme head, and the army is only
a part, though the most important part, in war. A soldier may be also a statesman and at the
head of everything, as were Cromwell, Napoleon, and Frederick the Great. But a statesman who
is not a soldier only ruins an army if he tries to command it himself. And this was precisely
what Vaudreuil did. Indeed, he did worse, for, while he did not go into the field himself,
he continued to give orders to Montcalm at every turn. Besides, instead of making all the various
forces on the French side into one army he kept them as separate as he could--five parts and
no whole.

It should be made clear what these five parts were. First, there were the French regulars,
the best of all, commanded by Montcalm, who was himself under Vaudreuil. Next, there were the
Canadian regulars and the Canadian militia, both directly under Vaudreuil. Then there were
the French sailors, under their own officers, but subject to Vaudreuil. Montcalm had to report
to the minister of War in Paris about the French regulars, and to the minister of Marine about
the Canadians of both kinds. Vaudreuil reported to both ministers, usually against Montcalm;
and the French naval commander reported to his own minister on his own account. So there was
abundant opportunity to make trouble among the four French forces. But there was more trouble
still with the fifth force, the Indians, who were under their own chiefs. These men admired
Montcalm; but they had to make treaties with Vaudreuil. They were cheated by Bigot and were
offered presents by the British. As they very naturally desired to keep their own country for
themselves in their own way they always wished to side with the stronger of the two white rivals,
if they could not get rid of both.

