"For the same reason that you do," said the audacious youth. "You explain your mother and your
mother explains you, a little, at any rate. Where is the celebrated crimson rambler, please?"

"You are sitting on it," Nancy answered tranquilly.

Tom sprang away from the trellis, on which he had been half reclining. "Bless my soul!" he
exclaimed. "Why didn't you tell me? I have a great affection for that rambler; it was your
planting it that first made me--think favorably of you. Has it any roses on it? I can't see
in this light."

"It is almost out of bloom; there may be a few at the top somewhere; I'll look out my window
to-morrow morning and see."

"At about what hour?"

"How should I know?" laughed Nancy.

"Oh! you're not to be depended on!" said Tom rebukingly. "Just give me your hand a moment;
step on that lowest rung of the trellis, now one step higher, please; now stretch up your right
hand and pick that little cluster, do you see it?--That's right; now down, be careful, there
you are, thank you! A rose in the hand is worth two in the morning."

"Put it in your button hole," said Nancy. "It is the last; I gave your father one of the first
a month ago."

"I shall put this in my pocket book and send it to my mother in a letter," Tom replied. ("And
tell her it looks just like the girl who planted it," he thought; "sweet, fragrant, spicy,
graceful, vigorous, full of color.")

"Now come in and meet mother," said Nancy. "The polka is over, and soon they will be 'forming
on' for The Tempest."

Tom Hamilton's entrance and introduction proved so interesting that it delayed the dance for
a few moments. Then Osh Popham and the master fiddler tuned their violins and Mrs. Carey assisted
Susie Bennett at the piano, so that there were four musicians to give fresh stimulus to the
impatient feet.

Tom Hamilton hardly knew whether he would rather dance with Nancy or stand at the open door
and watch her as he had been doing earlier in the evening. He could not really see her now,
although he was her partner, his mind was so occupied with the intricate figures, but he could
feel her, in every fibre of his body, the touch of her light hand was so charged with magnetism.

Somebody swung the back doors of the barn wide open. The fields, lately mown, sloped gently
up to a fringe of pines darkly green against the sky. The cool night air stirred the elms,
and the brilliant moon appeared in the very centre of the doorway. The beauty of the whole
scene went to Tom Hamilton's head a little, but he kept his thoughts steadily on the changes
as Osh Popham called them.

To watch Nancy Carey dance The Tempest was a sight to stir the blood. The two head couples
joined hands and came down the length of the barn four abreast; back they went in a whirl;
then they balanced to the next couple, then came four hands round and ladies' chain, and presently
they came down again flying, with another four behind them. The first four were Nancy and Tom,
Ralph Thurston and Kathleen, the last two among the best dancers in Beulah; but while Kitty
was slim and straight and graceful as a young fawn, Nancy swept down the middle of the barn
floor like a flower borne by the breeze. She was Youth, Hope, Joy incarnate! She had washed
the dishes that night, would wash them again in the morning, but what of that? What mattered
it that the years just ahead (for aught she knew to the contrary) were full of self-denial
and economy? Was she not seventeen? Anything was possible at seventeen! What if the world was
to be a work-a-day world? There was music and laughter in it as well as work, and there was
love in it, too, oceans of love, so why not trip and be merry and guide one's young partner
safely through the difficult mazes of the dance and bring him out flushed and triumphant, to
receive mother's laughing compliments?

Everybody was dancing The Tempest in his or her own fashion, thought the Admiral, looking on.
Mrs. Popham was grave, even gloomy from the waist up, but incredibly lively from the waist
down, moving with the precision of machinery, while her partner, a bricklayer from Beulah Centre,
engaged the attention of the entire company by his wonderful steps. She was fully up to time
too, you may be sure, as her rival, Mrs. Bill Harmon, was opposite her in the set. Lallie Joy,
clad in one of Kathleen's dresses, her hair dressed by Julia, was a daily attendant at the
Vacation School, but five weeks of steady instruction had not sufficed to make her sure of
ladies' grand chain. Olive moved like a shy little wild thing, with a bending head and a grace
all her own, while Gilbert had great ease and distinction.

There was a brief interval for ice cream, accompanied by marble cake, gold cake, silver cake,
election cake, sponge cake, cup cake, citron cake, and White Mountain cake, and while it was
being eaten, Susie Bennett played The Sliding Waltz, The Maiden's Prayer, and Listen to the
Mocking Bird with variations; variations requiring almost supernatural celerity.

"I guess there ain't many that can touch Sutey at the piano!" said Osh Popham, who sat beside
the Admiral. "Have you seen anybody in the cities that could play any faster'n she can? And
Jo you ever ketch her landin' on a black note when she started for a white one? I guess not!"

"You are right!" replied the Admiral, "and now there seems to be a general demand for you.
What are they requesting you to do,--fly?"

"That's it," said Osh. "Mis' Carey, will you play for me? Maria, you can go into the carriage
house if you don't want to be disgraced."

At length the strains of the favorite old tune faded on the ears of the delighted audience.
Then they had The Portland Fancy and The Irish Washerwoman and The College Hornpipe, and at
last the clock in the carriage house struck midnight and the guests departed in groups of twos
and threes and fours, their cheerful voices sounding far down the village street.

Osh Popham stayed behind to cover the piano, put out the lanterns, close the doors and windows,
and lock the barn, while Mrs. Carey and the Admiral strolled slowly along the greensward to
the side door of the house.

"Good-night," Osh called happily as he passed them a few minutes later. "I guess Beulah never
see a party such as ourn was, this evenin'! I guess if the truth was known, the State o' Maine
never did, neither! Good-night, all! Mebbe if I hurry along I can ketch up with Maria!"

Julia had gone upstairs with the sleepy Peter-bird, who had been enjoying his first experience
of late hours on the occasion of Nancy's coming out; the rest of the young folks were gathered
in a group under the elms, chatting in couples,--Olive and Ralph Thurston, Kathleen and Cyril
Lord, Nancy and Tom Hamilton. Then they parted, Tom Hamilton strolling to the country hotel
with the young school teacher for companion, while Olive and Cyril walked across the fields
to the House of Lords.

