A Chinese Command, A Story of Adventure in Eastern Seas, by Harry Collingwood.

We have two confessions to make before we tell you about the story.  The first is to say that
there are two missing pages from the copy of the book we used, 223 and 224, the last two pages
of chapter 14, rather an exciting moment in the story.  We shall try to get photocopies of
these pages, but it will take time.

The second one will make you laugh: The Chinese Admiral Wong-Li, who plays a big part in the
book, was always being read by the audiobook program as "wong fifty one".  No doubt you can
see why.  So I changed his name, with apologies, to Wong-lih, thus restoring the correct pronunciation,
and not making a huge difference to the story.

Frobisher is a cashiered Royal Navy ex-officer.  He is approached to run some arms to the rebels
in Korea, and thus make his fortune.  This fails, and the arms get into the hands of the legitimate
government. After some vicissitudes he finds himself in China, and talking to the above admiral,
who offers him the command of a battleship, with the prospect of taking part in a war against
Japan.  He does this but loses his ship in a storm towards the end of the book.  Meanwhile
he has found the lost millions hidden away by Genghiz Khan many centuries beforehand.  He has
no hesitation in purloining these, and eventually on getting back to England, buying his way
back into grace by presenting the nation with a number of brand-new battleships, for which
bit of sleaze he is given a baronetcy, and restored to the Navy List.

It makes a good audiobook.

CHAPTER ONE.

THE OUTCAST.

A furious gust of wind tore down the chimney, blowing the smoke out into the small but cosily-furnished
sitting-room of the little cottage at Kingston-on-Thames, and sending a shower of sparks hissing
and spluttering on to the hearth-rug, where they were promptly trodden out by a tall, fair-haired
young giant, who lazily removed his feet from a chair on which they reposed, for the purpose. To make all these moderately
papers just half the degrees, just 10. Let us, however, prodigious and awarded 20 of the notables
of the highest social and political life. All Grades of understanding that you have at top 20
will be not only useless but harmful, you distract from what matters to your interest, you
will think in many cases unnecessary, not think that fools you stirred up hatred of other men,
or will make you look as an oddball, quirky, and nothing will serve you if you do not reach the
100, which and grades are genius. May also excite your love hurt you and making you own think
you're a genius or you're close to it, which is likely to get in ridiculous. To be a genius required
100 degrees well covered, and yet the genius is often left latent if not favorable destiny brings
out. Then appear Cervantes, Newton, Shakespeare, Hegel and other such. While there does not
appear to be more deplorable and funny man that is, in our century, more than 20 degrees of understanding,
needed to reach to the most sublime of practical life, in the midst of civilization or environment
around us. It is clear that, as mankind progresses, the level will rise and will need more
degrees to the practical, and in old age, it required less. In the wild, put by-case basis, only
two or three degrees. Not required to hunt and fish, to stratagems warrior, etc., but some cunning,
a certain instinct little higher than wild beasts. All grades of understanding on this was then
a man was Don funestísimo and absurd luxury. Now, as the war have been applied to mathematics
and other sciences and hunting and fishing in the stock market in the Congress, in commercial
and industrial companies, not shooting arrows, but by creating securities, stocks, bonds and other
projectiles complicated grades needed are 20. Again, as the world goes quickly, within a couple
of centuries will be needed 40, but for now, is already aviado the passing of 20. What a horrible
nuisance in grades that you can spare! The sense deeper, more philosophical, most momentous of
the sentence is too clever by the superiority pitiful. All fired the shots that escape through
white top. Well above the critical killer all inspiration and kills you. Do not do a thousand
things because you seem silly, another makes, and thrives. Instead, what you do to seem unobtrusive,
or misunderstood, or judged only for success, which is often deplorable, seems silly to everyone.

"This
is, in short, my theory. In vain she tried to comfort me in my short venture, taking the innocent
vanity of believing more than 20 degrees and spend the ready in deepest philosophical meaning of
the phrase.

"This grim satisfaction that I give others is worth it convoluted for my wife. She does not
look it's going to walk, living in poor house, no one attends, and that respect, consideration
and flattery that craves being surrounded by waning missing mine.

"I note, measure, calculated instant by instant the rapid progress
that makes this evil in the heart it.

In this step I also ready. I'm ready to haunt me. I compare your doctor when he notices the progress
of tuberculosis in a loved one, provided the damage is to do and not even know how to avoid
or remedy.

"I see too well clear contempt for me that is slowly entering the heart of Beatrice and devouring
the affection that I have. But how to prevent this? How do I prove I'm worth more than the blessed
and exalted and rich? The speech made against them seem suggested by envy and makes me despicable
in his eyes.

"If I was young, beautiful and robust, I would hope that it continue Beatriz loving, but no longer
on a high opinion of my clothes intellectuals, but I'm old and ailing, and I'm puny and ugly as hell.
I applied, therefore bitterly that question the poet:

What is the
devil, Christ lives!, If you remove the view ready?

        
      

And without hesitation I answer: Nothing. Soon there will be nothing left for me in the heart of it,
but offensive compassion, if not spend all that takes pity herself. And you better not feel sorry for
me. Well our immortal writer says: "And above all, heaven forbid you have anyone you pity. "

"I
explode, I would drown if you do not communicate with someone my
troubles.

That's why I entrust you. Beatriz sees nothing. How, why, for what reason to complain to her
and she?

T.B. 42 was behaving splendidly, and Murray was just congratulating himself that, in spite
of the violence of the wind, his little craft was fighting her way to her destination at a
good honest twelve knots an hour, when, with a shriek like that of a thousand warlocks, the
wind and sleet whirled down in a burst of vicious fury that struck the boat like a solid wall,
rendering it a matter of physical impossibility for any human being to face it until after
its first violence was exhausted.

It was during those few fateful moments that the catastrophe occurred. As the gust veered away
astern, and the breathless, half-frozen seamen on deck were again able to direct their eyes
ahead, there came a wild cry from the look-out forward of: "Port your helm, sir; port your
helm!" followed, before Murray could spring to the assistance of the quartermaster at the wheel,
by a splintering crash, the rending sound of steel rasping through steel.  Then the little
craft heeled over to starboard, until Murray felt himself sliding bodily down the steeply inclined
deck towards the sea; while above, right over his head, as it seemed, he could dimly perceive
the outline of a great, towering metal stem that still surged and sawed onward and over Number
42, relentless as fate itself.

A second later, and the catastrophe was complete.  The colliding steamer lifted with the 'scend
of the waves and crashed down yet again upon the hapless torpedo-boat, and young Frobisher
found himself in the raging sea, clinging instinctively to something--he knew not what--that
had come away in his hands as he flung them out wildly to prevent himself from sliding off
the deck.  As his head appeared above the brine after the plunge, he heard certain dreadful
cries which he never forgot as long as he lived.  They were the death shrieks of his unhappy
crew, imprisoned below among the bursting steam-pipes and boilers, the cascade of white-hot
coals from the furnaces, and the crumpling wreckage of machinery and torn plates; and he knew
that his trim little ship and his gallant comrades were gone from him for ever.

As it happened, those on the look-out on board the liner, with the storm behind them and their
eyes consequently clear, had seen the boat at the instant when the collision had become inevitable;
and the captain had promptly rung his engines astern, brought his ship to a standstill, and
lowered his boats in an endeavour to rescue the survivors.  But the only person rescued was
the unfortunate Murray himself, and even he was hauled on board more dead than alive, grieving
that it had not been his lot to share the fate of his crew.

Upon his recovery he was called upon to face a court martial for the loss of his ship; and--strange
were the ways of the Judge-Advocate--was dismissed that Service which, confronted by a less-harsh
officer, he might have remained to honour.  And since that miserable moment the unhappy man
had been living upon his slender savings, endeavouring meanwhile to obtain employment of any
sort that would keep the wolf from the door.

At the moment when this story opens, Murray Frobisher was down to his last few sovereigns,
and had therefore been unfeignedly glad to accept the invitation of kind-hearted Dick Penryn,
his former comrade-in-arms, to share the cottage at Kingston where, having no ties of any kind,
that young gentleman was staying during his spell of shore leave.  And it was Murray whom Penryn
was momentarily expecting on this stormy, cold, and dismal evening in March, 1893, just a year
after the catastrophe in the Channel which had ruined his career in the British Navy, and all
but broken his heart.

Dick Penryn had scarcely finished another page of his very fascinating book when he heard the
front door of the cottage open.  A furious gust of wind tore through the little house for a
moment, causing even the occupant of the easy chair to shiver in sympathy with his friend;
and then the door was shut with a slam, and he heard Murray Frobisher's well-known footsteps
ascending the stairs.  But there was not the former light-hearted spring in them.  Murray was
coming upstairs slowly and heavily, like a man carrying a ponderous burden, and Dick heaved
a sharp sigh as he murmured to himself, "No luck again to-day, evidently; else we should have
had Murray coming up here full steam ahead.  Poor old boy!  I wonder what on earth will happen
to him if he doesn't get a berth soon?  A man can't go on like this for ever without losing
heart; and there are already signs that the boy is beginning to lose hope.  I wish to Heaven
there was something I could do for him; but unfortunately I have not a particle of influence;
I am absolutely powerless."

At this moment the door of the little room opened, and Murray stood framed in the opening,
looking at his friend with an expression in which weariness, disappointment, and a certain
suggestion of relief were curiously blended.  If Dick Penryn was what some people were in the
habit of calling a giant, then Murray Frobisher could only be considered gigantic.  Standing
fully six feet four inches in his boots, broad in proportion, weighing fully sixteen stone,
with dark, olive complexion bronzed almost to the shade of an Arab's by exposure to the weather,
and with clean-shaven cheeks and lips, and close-cropped, wavy black hair, the man was a truly
magnificent specimen of humanity, compelling the attention of all with whom he came in contact.

"So you're back at last, Murray," shouted Penryn, leaping out of his chair, and speaking more
cheerfully than he felt that the occasion warranted.  "Come inside, man; come inside!  Don't
stand there in the doorway letting in all the draught; goodness knows it's cold enough without
that!"  And as Murray closed the door behind him, and slowly pulled forward a chair to the
fire, he proceeded: "And what's the news to-day, old man?  Any luck of any sort; or has it
been the usual style of things--offer your services and have them declined with, or without,
thanks?"

"Well," answered Murray in his deep bass tones, stretching out his half-frozen hands to the
blaze, "I hardly know what to think about to-day.  It certainly has been a little different
from the usual run of things, but not very much.  During the whole of the morning, and for
the better part of the afternoon, luck was dead against me, as usual.  Then, about four o'clock,
there came just one little ray of light to brighten the darkness."

"Capital!" broke in Dick, cheerfully.  "Every little helps, you know. Straws show which way
the wind blows, and all the rest of it.  Tell us about this ray of light of yours."

"Well," answered Frobisher, with a wry smile, "I don't know that it was very much of a ray,
after all; but I'll tell you what happened.  I had been running up and down office stairs from
before nine o'clock until about three in the afternoon, without result, and I became heartily
sick of it; and just by way of a change, I made up my mind to take a run down to the docks
and see whether there was anything doing there.

"I got down at about three-thirty, and, feeling pretty hungry--for I had had nothing to eat
since breakfast--I went into a small place within hail of the dock gates, and asked for some
bread and cheese and beer. The landlady, a kindly old soul, seeing, I suppose, that I looked
cold, and as though I could do with a rest, showed me into a little sanctum labelled Captains'
Room, where, I was glad to see, there blazed a fine big fire, before which stood two or three
very cosy-looking arm-chairs.

"Throwing myself into one, I began to discuss my frugal luncheon with considerable appetite,
and had nearly finished when the door opened, and in came the most curious-looking little man
I have ever set eyes on. That he was a seaman was perfectly apparent to the meanest intelligence,
and I at once set him down as the first officer--as they call themselves nowadays--or perhaps
even the skipper, of a tramp steamer.  He was certainly not more than five feet in height,
but his breadth of shoulder and depth of chest were so enormous as to amount, literally, to
a deformity; and I should judge that his strength must be herculean, as the novelists say.
He was bronzed to the colour of deep mahogany, and had a heavy black moustache and a beard
which grew right up to his eyes--deep-set, black, and as brilliant as diamonds.  Added to this
he wore gold ear-rings, and, altogether, was as like my conception of one of the pirates of
old, about whom we used to read in our young days, as any man possibly could be.

"From the moment the man entered the room I began to feel deeply interested in him, and could
scarcely refrain from staring at him openly.  `Here,' I said to myself, `is a personality;
a man who has knocked about the world during most of his life; a man who has seen things and
done things, some of which, probably, would not bear too close scrutiny.'  For he gave me the
impression of being a person who would make a good, stanch friend, but who would prove to be
a thoroughly bad and dangerous enemy.

"Apparently he was a bit surprised to find anybody else in the captains' sanctum at that time
of day; and, after the first hasty glance, it seemed as though he, too, was taking more than
usual interest in your humble servant; for every time I raised my eyes to take a quiet look
at him, I found his black, glittering orbs fixed on me, with that curious, unblinking stare
that you may have noticed among certain species of birds.  Seriously, Dick, I can tell you
that he kept this staring business up so long that I was beginning to feel quite uncomfortable,
and had made up my mind to finish my meal as soon as possible and continue my journey down
to the docks, when I heard him give vent to a kind of grunt, which might have expressed satisfaction,
dissatisfaction, disgust, or any other feeling for aught I could judge.

"Then, taking his eyes off me, this curious customer tugged the bell and ordered the servant
to bring him a glass of `rum hot', and a bit of cold meat and bread; from which, when it arrived,
he began to make a meal, eating as though it were the first time he had touched food for several
days.  Indeed, he ate so fast and so wolfishly, that by the time I had finished my own meal,
and had rung the bell for the bill, my piratical friend was also pushing away his plate with
a sigh of satisfaction, and asking for his bill.  Both reckonings having been paid, I was on
the point of leaving the room when the stranger, whose name I afterwards learned was Drake--a
quite appropriate name, I thought, for such a freebooter-looking character--put out a great,
hairy paw as though to prevent me, and remarked, in a deep, rumbling voice:--

"`One moment, young gentleman.  Unless you are in a great hurry I'd like to have a word or
two with you.'

"Naturally, Dick, I was a little astonished," proceeded Murray, "but I must confess that I
had become vastly interested in the little man, and, as offers of employment sometimes come
from the most unlikely sources, like a drowning man clutching at a straw I determined to hear
what he had to say.  Possibly it might lead to something; and in any case I felt that I should
do no harm by listening to him.

"`I think I can spare you a few minutes,' I remarked.  `What is it you wish to see me about?'

"`You're a seaman, aren't you?' he said, answering my question with another.

"`Yes,' I replied, `I am.'

"`Navy man, too, unless I'm much mistaken,' was his next remark.

"`Well,' I said, rather hesitatingly, `I was a Navy man--a lieutenant-- not so very long ago,
but I had the misfortune to lose my ship under circumstances for which, I must say, in justice
to myself, I think I was hardly to blame.  However, the members of the court martial took a
different view of the case, and I was, to put it bluntly, dismissed the Service.  Since then
I have been looking out for other employment-- something in my own line, if possible; but if
not, then anything that I can lay my hands on.  But so far, I am sorry to say, I have met with
nothing but rebuffs.  Nobody on the face of this earth appears to need a man with my qualifications
just now.'

"`Ha, ha!' chuckled the little man, rubbing his hands gleefully.  `Just as I thought when I
first set eyes on you.  Here, says I to myself, is a seaman, sure enough--I could tell that
at the first glance--a Navy man, too, by the way he carries himself, and no longer in the Service
by the general--er--um--not on active duty at the moment, I mean to say,' he ended, rather
lamely, with an apologetic cough.

"I felt myself going red round the ears, Dick, and might have been inclined to be angry had
anyone else spoken thus.  But there was something about my little pirate that assured me he
did not in the least intend to be offensive, so I only laughed, rather ruefully.  If my `out-of-work'
condition was so apparent as to be noted by even a common seaman, it was no wonder, I told
myself, that I so often came out of private offices with the words, `Nothing to suit you, I'm
afraid, Mr Frobisher', ringing in my ears.

"`Well,' I said, `granted that I am an ex-naval officer looking for a job, what bearing has
that upon your business with me?  For I suppose you must have some idea that you and I can
do business together, since you started the conversation.'

"`What bearing?' he repeated.  `Well, I'll just tell you.  As it happens, I'm looking at this
moment for exactly such a man as you appear to be.  My name's Drake--Captain John Drake, of
the tramp steamer Quernmore, two thousand five hundred and sixty tons register, to be exact--and,
from what you've just said, I think I could make a pretty good shot at your tally.  Should
I be very far wrong if I said that you were ex-lieutenant Murray Frobisher?'

"`On the contrary,' I answered, `you would have hit the bull's-eye dead in the centre.'

"`I was certain of it,' he smiled; `and again I say, more emphatically than ever, that you're
the very man I'm looking for.  If you'll take that chair and pull up to the fire, I'll take
the other and we'll have a bit of a palaver.'

"Having seated ourselves comfortably, Drake at once proceeded:--

"`I may tell you, Mr Frobisher, that for the past twenty years I have been captain of this
same steamer, trading between eastern ports all the while; and as this is the first time I
have been back to old England during the whole of that period, I don't think I'm very far wrong
in saying that I know as much about the East as any man living--perhaps a good deal more. 
And there's not very much going on out there that I don't know about.  Sometimes, even, I get
to know about things before they begin to happen, and am able to make my plans and put a little
money in my pocket thereby.

"`This is one of the occasions upon which I have managed to get wind of something in advance,
and in this case also I can see my way to making quite a nice little pile of money.  First
of all, however, I must ask you to pledge your word that, if after I have told you my plans
you don't feel inclined to come in with me, you'll do nothing to upset those plans in any way
whatever.'

"I gave him the required promise, perhaps just a little too readily, and Drake resumed his story.

"`It so happens that my last port of call was--well--a small seaport in Korea; and, while there,
I heard some news that made me sit up and take notice, as the Yankees say.  It seems that,
for some time past, the Government of Korea has been playing some very hanky-panky games: taxing
the people until the burden has become unbearable; punishing the smallest offences with death
by torture; confiscating the goods and money of every man who dared to allow himself a few
more luxuries than his neighbours; and, in short, playing the very mischief all round. Naturally,
even the mildest-mannered worm will turn under too much of that kind of thing, and the average
Korean is anything but mild-mannered; so that, a little while ago, a party of officials decided
that they had had quite enough of it, and proceeded quietly and methodically to foment a rebellion
against the Government.

"`When I left Korea, things were very nearly ripe for the outbreak; but it would have been
suicidal folly for the rebels to have attempted anything of the kind without proper arms to
back it up, for the Korean soldiery are naturally on the side from which they draw their pay--that
is to say, the side of the Government--and they also happen to be particularly well armed just
now.  It was therefore necessary for the would-be rebels to procure weapons before any successful
revolt could be undertaken, and one day I was interviewed by one of the officials on the subject
of supplying the rebel army with modern rifles.

"`To make a rather long story short, the upshot of the interview was that I was commissioned
to supply the rebels with one hundred thousand rifles, with the necessary ammunition, at a
price which, if the venture is successful, will make it possible for me to give up the sea
altogether and live ashore at my ease.'

"`Yes, yes,' I interrupted, rather impatiently; `this is interesting enough in its way, Captain,
but I fail to see where it concerns me.'

"`I was just coming to that,' returned Drake, `when you interrupted me. I was unfortunate enough
to lose my chief officer overboard in a hurricane in the Indian Ocean on the way home--a circumstance
which upset me and my plans very considerably, for he was a fine seaman, had been with me many
years, and knew all my little ways.  In order to bring off this venture successfully, I must
replace him, for there will be difficult and dangerous work ahead; and I need a man as much
like my old chief as possible, a man who is willing to go anywhere and do anything; a man who
has the brains to organise, and the muscle and courage to keep his own end up in a fight.

"`I have often heard of you, Mr Frobisher, as being just that kind of man; and I followed the
whole account of your misfortune and the proceedings of the court martial in the newspapers.
When I learned that they had dismissed you from the Service, I considered it a most shocking
error of judgment, and told myself that, had you been in my employ, you would not have been
so harshly treated.  I would have liked at the time to make a try to secure your services,
but I had my own chief officer with me then, and consequently had nothing to offer you.  But
now things are different.  You need employment; I need your services, and am prepared to pay
you well for them and give you a share of the profits. One of the conditions attaching to my
contract is that I deliver the rifles and ammunition into the hands of the rebel officers at--at
a small town a considerable distance inland from the coast; and as I cannot leave my ship,
the duty of conveying the cargo inland would devolve upon you.  This is where the dangerous
part of the business comes in, and I shall make allowance therefore in the rate of pay I propose
to offer you.

"`If you will join me--to get down to hard facts--I will give you forty pounds a month, from
the day you sign on with me until you leave the ship on her return to England, or until you
leave her out in the East, if you care to do that.  There are plenty of chances for such a
man as yourself out there.  And, in addition, I agree to give you a share of one-twentieth
of my profits, which I estimate should amount to about twenty thousand pounds sterling.  Therefore,
one thousand pounds, over and above your pay, will be your share of the enterprise.  Now, I've
said all I have to say; I've put the proposition before you; I've told you that it's likely
to be both profitable and dangerous: what do you say to joining me as my chief officer?'

"I tell you, Dick, I was too amazed to reply for a few moments, and my brain was in such a
whirl that all I could presently say was that I would think the thing over, and meet him again
at the same place to-morrow to give him a reply.  The money part of the business naturally
appeals very strongly to one, but the amount seems almost too good to be true.  There would
be at least six months' pay at forty pounds a month, and a thousand on top of that, if the
expedition should prove successful; so that, all being well, I should have a little capital
in my hands to work with at the end of that time, and might be able so to invest it as to make
myself independent, for the remainder of my life, of anything like the experiences of this
past year.

"On the other hand, I am inclined to look a little doubtfully upon this gun-running, or smuggling,
business.  It is all utterly at variance with Navy traditions; and I would rather starve than
set my hand to anything that has even the appearance of being in the least degree dishonest.
Still, I am bound to say that, from all I can learn, it looks as though the Korean rebels have
a genuine grievance, and that the country might be all the better for a drastic change of government;
so that I am really very undecided what to do, Dick.  One thing is certain--I must get employment
of some kind; and if you are seriously of opinion that I can accept Drake's offer without soiling
my hands I shall most certainly do so.  I have considered the matter pretty thoroughly myself
on the way home, and, to tell the truth, I have almost persuaded myself that I may accept."

Dick Penryn, who during this narrative had been leaning back in his chair smoking, and listening
attentively, took his pipe from his mouth, tapped the ashes out slowly and thoughtfully against
the bars of the grate, and sat up straight.  Then, after a lengthy pause, he delivered judgment.

"Well, Murray," he said, "I've listened most attentively to your yarn, and I've been trying
to look at the matter from an unprejudiced and independent standpoint.  Of course, as you very
truthfully say, anything in the nature of gun-running or smuggling is totally opposed to all
our Navy traditions.  At the same time, you are, unfortunately, no longer in the Navy; to all
intents and purposes you are now a private individual, at liberty to take up any calling, profession,
trade, or whatever you care to term it, that offers you a chance to make a living.  Employment
of some sort you certainly must have; and so long as that employment is honest--I might almost
say in your particular case, so long as it is not dishonest--I think you will be wise to take
the first thing that offers.

"You have been out of harness for over a year now, and your ready cash must be running pretty
low, I should think; besides, this is the first offer that has come your way since you left
the Navy, and if you do not accept it while you have the opportunity, it may perhaps be another
year or more before you are given another chance.  Personally, I do not see anything wrong
with Drake's proposal.  It is a purely business enterprise.  Certain folk require certain goods,
and Drake contracts to supply them.  In order to carry out his agreement he needs your help,
and is willing to pay very handsomely for it; so my advice to you, my son, is that you take
what is offered, and be thankful.  Of course I need not say that if the arms had been intended
for any country at war, or likely at any time to be at war, with England, such a thing would
be absolutely impossible for you to contemplate for a moment; but as things are--well, I have
no hesitation in saying that under similar circumstances my conscience would not worry me very
much."

At this very clear and definite expression of opinion, Frobisher's anxious expression vanished.
He had evidently been a little afraid that his friend might not look altogether favourably
on the scheme; and he was not so deeply in love with it himself that he would have felt inclined
to follow it up had Dick voted against it or pronounced it of too "shady" a character for a
gentleman to meddle with.  But since Dick's views coincided so completely with his own, he
felt that there could be no longer any room for hesitation.

"I'm glad indeed to hear you say that, Dick," he exclaimed, jumping up. "It decides me absolutely.
Tomorrow I'll run down to the docks, see Drake on board the Quernmore instead of waiting to
meet him at the hotel as I had arranged, and tell him I have decided to accept his offer. 
I would go down to-night if it were not so late; for now that I've made up my mind I should
feel pretty bad if meanwhile he happened to meet someone else who had not so many scruples
as myself, and who needed a job badly enough to accept the opening on the spot, without taking
time to think it over.

"However, I don't think Drake will interview anybody else until he has had my answer, for he
certainly seemed anxious enough to secure my particular services; so I'll hope for the best
and leave things in the hands of fate.  And now, Dick," he went on, passing his hand across
his forehead, "I've had a long tiring day, and have a rather bad headache into the bargain;
so, if you don't mind, I think I'll toddle up to bed and get to sleep; for I want to be up
early in the morning.  Good night, old man!"

"Good night, Murray, my hearty!" replied his friend.  "I hope you'll sleep well, and have pleasant
dreams.  You ought to, after this piece of good luck.  By the way, when does Drake want you
to go aboard?"

"Oh, to be sure; I quite forgot to mention that.  He told me that if I decided to join him
he would require me to be on board as soon as I possibly could.  Indeed, he hinted that if
I could make it convenient to turn up tomorrow evening and sleep aboard the ship, he would
be more than pleased.  You see, he has his cargo pretty nearly loaded, and hopes to be able
to get away at midday the day after to-morrow; so the sooner I am on board the sooner I shall
be able to take some of the worry and trouble and work off his shoulders."

"Great Scot!" exclaimed Dick, jumping up, "he wants you to join as soon as that!  Why, I fully
expected that you wouldn't be leaving under a week at the least.  So to-night will be your
last sleep in the old bed, for some months to come, at any rate--for I want you to make this
place your home again as soon as ever you return.  Make the most of it, therefore.  You don't
know where you may have to lie, in what queer places you may have to sleep, before you get
back.  Well, I suppose I'll see you in the morning at breakfast; and at any rate you'll be
back here after you've interviewed Drake, in order to pack your traps, say good-bye, and so on?"

"Yes, you'll see me at breakfast, Dick; and I shall be back as soon as possible after I have
seen the skipper, to pack and to say good-bye.  By gad, Dick!" he went on, with a little burst
of emotion, "but I'm more than sorry to have to leave you. Piques our horses, and be found in the same site. Stupid, do not
you entusiasmáis with these things? Mira, Gabriel, we're going: this is the hill we saw from
afar the ledge that you look to the left is the steep slope of Estaria-Winobradi, where the general
led us Vandamme. But believe it was something of play? The ledge was defended by a number of Russian
troops and a formidable artillery. The thing was tricky, but when the generals say, "Onward,
ever onward" is not possible resist, and although the 17. No line there are only a third to
tell, helped by 24. Number of light at the end take the ledge, seizing the artillery. The Russians
disbanded by the other side of the hill, heading towards that village in the distance brightens
the light of the moon, which is none other than the castle of Austerlitz.

Marijuán burst of hilarity. I in my turn I could not make any comments the narrator, saying

- Lord of Santorcaz, there is not any castle, perhaps they like it wants strength the hut of
a shepherd, the only Russians who go to these places.

- You do not know if what you say - continued Santorcaz, stopping in the middle of his male path
-. We will continue to count. While the center did what you heard, back the left in the flat land
we have on this side, the cavalry carried portentously command of Lannes and Murat. Frankly,
raptors, this bit I can talk to you because I fell wounded: for a while I got cobwebs in the eyes,
and my ears heard nothing but a faint hum. But there, right, is finished off the Russians
and Austrians as more admirable. Do you not see Satzchan swamps? In the distance shines its
deceptive surface; are frozen, and the Russians, driven by Soult, rush on them. In the event,
the Emperor commanded the artillery of the guard fired some cannon on the ice to sink, and between
the crystals crumbled into the water two thousand Russians with their guns, horses, ammunition,
weapons, ammunition and trucks, rushing confusedly, without their colleagues will provide
relief, because they thought only of escaping and fleeing drowned, and staying died away by
the French shrapnel. What a terrible disaster that poor people, and what a great win for us!
We were crazy with excitement. But what I see! Gabriel, and you, Marijuán, do not you entusiasmáis?
You guys are gaznápiros. That was wonderful. Just enter fire forty thousand men, and thanks
to the great working arrangements tyrant defeated ninety thousand allies, killing them or
drowning fifteen thousand, twenty fucking thousand prisoners and twenty guns. Was there no
reason why we had become mad with our boss? Ah, guys, if you had been there when he toured the
battlefield sending collect the wounded! I think that even the dead rose to shout "Long live
Emperor, 'and when the next night we lit a bonfire on the same site where we are now, and he
came to stand there in front to meet the Emperor of Austria, like a god surrounded by a halo
of fire and having at your fingertips with lightning destroying thrones and kings, empires and
crowns.

Marijuán and I laughed, but soon we were forced conceal our laughter, because Aragon asked
the young man having very sarcastically that which was taken advantage of such struggle Santorcaz
is piqued, and threatening to punish us if we got excited as he told us:

- Fool, hounds, did peace and the Treaty of Pressburg is straw? Prussia was an ally of France,
Austria lost the support of her sister. Austria France abandoned the rule of Venice ceded Tyrol
to Bavaria, while recognizing the sovereignty of the voters Bavaria, Baden Wurttemberg, after
paying compensation in France forty million war. At the same time, pieces of cork, the Treaty of
Schoenbrunn, France ceded Hannover Prussia, Prussia to the Marquis of Anspach Bavaria and the
principality of France Neufchâtel and the Duchy of Cleves.

Marijuán and I went to look at us and we came back to laugh, which warned by Santorcaz, was because
it shook us a couple of lashes to be repeated, we would have been forced to defend, making the
spot a second Austerlitz. Rather they were to ridicule for really,
and especially did not let Marijuán situation that might vex us partner.

As contrive to find a herd of sheep and goats, Aragon said:

- Apartémonos here by the ocean to see these Austrian defeat and rusiacos
that is mandated by Parranclof uncle, Emperor of the bag and king
of the piggy, and let us go the ridge of the belly to remove the artillery
and put them in the castle.

I therefore remembering D. Quixote, looked at the sky, in which the brown dark background and torn
clouds, black as soon as radiant light, drew thousands of colossal figures size, with that expression,
while still being close to caricature, it is not know which label of solemn and awful grandeur.
Out the effect of what he had heard, were simply my fantasy should find itself ready to hallucination,
which always produces a beautiful show in the solitary and silent night, the truth is that
I saw in those irregular spots Sky squads fast running from north to south, and its mass revolt
heads of horses and their powerful chests, from a front of others, and blacks, and whites, how
to dispute further advance of the race. The scrap, several to infinity, the clouds were grimaces
of ways: I saw huge feathered hats or helmets, plumes, bands, peaks, testuces, tails, manes,
egrets, here and there with hands raised swords and rifles, flags with eagles, pikes, spears,
running constantly, and finally in Amid all this turmoil, I figured that those thousand ways crumbled,
and the clouds are clustered to form a huge two-pointed hat lamps, under which diffused glow
of the moon as they sketched a round face and sunken between high flaps, from which stretched a
long black arm, insistently pointing fixity horizon.

I watched it, wondering if the image was really terrible in my eyes, or within them, when suddenly
exclaimed Santorcaz:

- Look at him, look at him there! Do you see? Stupid!

And you want to fight this thunderbolt of war, with this messenger of God who comes to transform
the people!

- Yes, there you see! - Marijuán said, laughing -.

Is D. Quijote de la Mancha comes in his horse and Sancho Panza after
him on a donkey.

Let him come, which now awaits the big beating.

The clouds moved, and everything turned into a caricature.

VIII

The sun was soon to leave, clearing the country and show that we were not in Moravia, as Brunn
going to Olmutz, but in La Mancha, the famous Spanish soil.

The village where we stopped at about eight o'clock was Villarta, and leaving behind our males,
took a few galleries in nine hours made us walk the five leagues is from that town to Manzanares:
such was the speed of vehicles in those happy time! When we entered the village at nightfall,
we distinguish in the distance a large dust, apparently lifted by the march of an army, and
leaving the car idle, we walk in the village to arrive sooner, and knowing what and where
those troops were leaving.

They knew we were the general's Ligier-Belair, who was in aid of detachment Santa Cruz de Mudela,
surprised and defeated the previous day by the inhabitants of this village. In the de Manzanares
there was great concern, and once the French disappeared ocupábanse arming everyone to come
to the aid of Valdepeñas, near the point where it was believed a fierce combat. We slept in Manzanares,
and the next day, finding no horses or or any car, we started walking to the sale of Consolation,
where we stopped to listen the great news that there are concerned.

Constant traffic on the way peasants armed with guns and clubs, all very determined, and as the
crowd of people came to Valdepeñas in Manzanares and Membrilla neighboring towns and Solana were
not to be more than women and children, because even the useless old went to war. Finally, we decided
to attend We also show that was prepared in the neighboring town, and putting in place, soon
traveled the two miles of flat road. Long before we saw a big reach smoke spread to the wind in the
sky. The town of Valdepeñas burned by the four sides.

Pressing the pace, close to the village heard the sound of voices
long, some gun shots, but no artillery barrages.

Soon we were unable to follow the reef, because the French rearguard prevented us, and following
the example of other villagers, we depart the road, running between vineyards and fields, unable
to approach the village. In this we saw that the French cavalry was withdrawing from the town,
occupying the plain to the left, while the fire took such proportions that it seemed an immense
Valdepeñas oven. Cries, groans, curses that came out of that hell filled Scared the bravest
spirit.

At once we realized that the inside of people heroically defended the plan was to seize the French
end, burning all the houses that could not occupy. Occasionally, a roar indicated that some
of the flimsy buildings adobe had come to the floor, and dust in the air mingled with the smoke.
Debris momentarily choked fire, but it came with more force, it spreads
to houses immediate.

At last it seemed that everything was going to stop, and they said those who were near, they
left the village some men to confer with the French General. Had long the last conference, because
we saw that they withdraw or to conclude the noise and merriment inside, but after a long time
a general movement of the crowd told us that something important was happening. Indeed, the
French, replicating their horses the road, fell to Manzanares.

When we entered Valdepeñas, the spectacle of the population was awful. It seems incredible that
men have in their hands instruments capable of destroying the works within hours of patience, diligence,
interest, accumulated by the arm forces worker the years and centuries. Calle Real, the largest
of that town, and as it were the backbone that serves the other crimping
and starting point, was physically cover French riders and horses.

Although most were dead, there were many seriously wounded struggled to rise, but digging back into
the sharp points the ground, fell back. It is known that under the sand covering the pavement
artificially road, the floor was strewn with nails and iron spikes, so that the cavalry was
entered as stumbling and falling to rise no more.

A street how many objects were thrown deadly hostilities are believed suitable for dragons, and even
after the fight plowed muddy sand streams of boiling water which was mixed with blood, producing
horrible suffocating vapor. Some windows saw with corpses hanging half out, still pressing
his fingers clenched or sickle the blunderbuss. Inside the houses were in flames, the show was
more pitiful, because not only men but women and children, appeared
sewn bayonet in the caves, and if it was to enter a house, to give
aid to the wounded what they needed, you had to leave in a hurry,
leaving his unhappy fate, because the fire, not satisfied to devour
nearby room, penetrated it furiously irresistible.

In short, French and Spanish had destroyed each other with unrelenting fury, but those finally believed
it prudent to withdraw, as they did, not stopping until Madridejos. When Santorcaz, Marijuán
and I continued our way to spend the night in Santa Cruz de Mudela,
the spirit of the brave countrymen Valdepeñas had not decayed, and
trying to repair the ravages of this bloody day, seemed capable of
repeating the next day.

From far and the end of the afternoon we distinguished the column of smoke covering the sky wanderers
and dim bursts, and the Aragonese and I could not less than cursing
loudly and expressively the tyrant invading Spain.

Contrary to expectations, Santorcaz not told us a word and he made
his way deep thought.

IX

To turn the land, I fully recognize my previous healthy condition. The influence no doubt of
that beautiful country, the strong sun, travel, exercise, balanced to the point the strength of
my body, and breathed with relief, he walked easily, without feeling discomfort one in my wounds.
All trace of pain or weakness disappeared and I found myself stronger than ever. Found nothing
unusual during our transit through the new settlements, unless alarming concerns and preparations
for defense. In the Carolina and Santa Elena very scarce men, because most had gone to join the legion
formed by D. Augustine Pedro Echevarria, whose base line were the brave smugglers country. There
was, however, in the gorges of Despeñaperros enough people to stop all or most of the mails,
and at several points, bet the kids or women rough as those narrows, contact the vicinity of
the convoy so that later fall men on him. We also note a large drop in the first fields of bread
that offered to our sight, and in some places women were busy reaping
in a hurry wheats still far from ripe.

About Guarromán saw large cultivated fields burned, signal that his office had begun there
the torch of the invader horrible.

Until then there had been no bloody collision between imperial and Andalusia. Here, suddenly
seeing that, among the pilgrims and bushes of the mountains, marching the soldiers of the story,
so beautiful and yet so just cocky value, not only returned from their astonishment when they
saw disappearing way of Cordoba and only then, feeling her cheeks scorched by generous shame, they
realized that the homeland should not be trodden by foreign boots. The French found the country
quiet, and thought happily come to Cadiz, but under the hoofs of their horses grass was growing
insurrection.

Those horses were not like that of Attila, who printed label death to the earth, but on the
contrary, their footsteps, as a touch clarion call, the men were awakening and calling behind
him.

Finally we come to dance, and explain why we stopped at this village a few days. Resided there
Marijuán loves, who presented it to us begged to acompañásemos, and this significant woman, who
was Mrs. Maria Castro Gold Afan de Ribera, Countess of Rumble welcomed
us with such kindness, so we pondered the baseness of the inns and
sales the villa, we did not see fit us to pray and accept the hospitality
we were offered.

The house was huge and there was always room for us, nor excellent food and drink of the elite
of Montilla and Aguilar.

- At this time - he said the Countess - the French must have committed an act with army of peasants
who say out of Córdoba to defend the passage of the bridge of Alcolea.

If they win the Spanish, French recede to Andujar, and how they have to be very angry, commit
a thousand atrocities on the road. That you should not go here, unless intend, as my son joining
the army that is forming in Utrera.

It was not necessary to convince many reasons. We were, therefore, in the illustrious house; and
now, gentlemen, yet I will tell idle time what I remember of that clarified mansion and its inhabitants,
destined to appear in the story enough I meant.

Rumble Palace was a house of last century, looks ugly on the outside, but with all the amenities inside
that reached the times. The high brick walls; rusty bars and finished at crossings, the two
coats of dark stone that occupied the spandrels of the door, the framework around apainelado and
looked back to string date older than the rest of the house, the two windows next to a gazebo
angreladas modern; the lantern held up by heavy armor of soft iron, in the center of some
twisted initial letters and drawn with a crown around the ingot, the garrisons whitewash around
the holes, the little windows, the shutters, and the diversity and variety of Openings in the
wall, as required by the interior, it resembled all the old mansions of our great, always detached
enough to spend on Factory convents taste and money required by the facades of its palaces.
For resplendent in white toilet houses of Andalusia. He had great lower hall, chapel, flowered
courtyard, rooms with tiled plinth yellow and green pine doors, polished and plated, large
number of bunkers, many works of carving, pictures old and new some
bird cages, fine mats, and, above all, tranquility, rest and peaceful
silence that was invited to stay long in that house.

Let's talk about family Afan de Ribera, or Perafán de Ribera, who in this are not consistent chroniclers.
Ranked first in this list reverent madame widow Ms Maria Castro Gold Worry, etc., Aragon birth,
which was most severe and solemn veneration that has existed in the world. He looked older than
fifty years, and was high, thick, arrogant, manly, he used to read his books or accounts devotees
of the house, a embedded in thick glasses large frame silver, and constantly wore black, to
suit a charm to his face and figure suited. Former and the latter were of who have the privilege
of never being forgotten, because their curved nose, his hair graying, thrown off his beard, and
clear and beautiful surface of his right forehead, made it a type I have not seen another. Respect
was the image of old, preserved to educate to the present generations.

Will

the second child, twenty year old boy yet their habits, their language, their games and their
lack of science. It was the only son, and therefore, the firstborn of that noble house, whose origin,
like the magnificent Guadalquivir, went back to the fastnesses of Sierra de Cazorla, where
the first Afan de Ribera did not know what feats during the conquest of Jaén. D. Young Diego
Hipólito Cantalicio Felix had been brought under their top destinations in the world, under the
guidance of a tutor that will speak, and although he was willing and likely to shake the shell
of the child, dragging in the dust Juvenile mischief of the purple cloak of primogeniture, her
mother had gotten into a fist, as they say, and had over him all the rigors of his character.
Truth is that kid with good instincts and wit, had discovered a way for skilful maternal attack
severity, and it was that when his tutor or the Countess did not taste in something, put their
fists in the eyes began to water with tears childish twenty years of his body, and exclaimed:
"Madam Mother, I want to get a monk." These words the resolution of the lad, from being carried
on relentlessly troncharía mayorazguil leafy tree, spread panic through all areas of the house.
Sought appease everyone, and the mother said: "Do not be mad, my son. Well, you can ride a
horse on the beam in the courtyard and you let the cat you throw nutshells in four legs. "

These
two characters will necessarily those of the Marquesa two daughters, two buds, two Andalusia
flowers, beautiful, modest, small, fresh, rosy, cheerful, unpretentious despite its nobility,
singers rezadoras night and morning, two birds that loved view with
the flutter of his innocent and somewhat naive frivolous coquetry,
of themselves ignored.

Were small as Reseda, but as the Reseda had a scent of seduction is announced from afar because
steps taken at the happy one, and its proximity was sucked with delight. Assumption and Presentation
were two angels with whom they wanted to play to see them laugh and to laugh at oneself from serious
gesture masking her pretty features when his mother sent them to be serious. The younger was intended
for faculty, and while Ms Mary stroked the great idea of ​​putting it into the Huelgas de Burgos,
it was agreed to take lessons needed to be a doctor, so the tutor to his brother had begun to
teach the first declension Latin he learned in no time, finding that very nice. First, that is,
Assumption, had no need to learn anything, because it was intended marriage.

And finally, I will not leave in the dark to tutor the young D. Diego. Commonly called him D. Paco,
and he was a man of great simplicity and moderation in their manners, though somewhat pedantic.
He was convinced that he knew Latin, and sometimes cited most celebrated authors, applying what
these wretches never thought to say. In such slanderous accusations is celebrity exposed!
He also prided D. Paco to teach his disciples rightly ancient and
modern history, although we know from documents of incontestable authenticity,
in their explanations never happened on this side of Noah's ark. It
was, yes, very strong in life Alexander the Great, and we can ensure
it possessed in the highest degree an art that not all men is given
cultivar with regular success.

Don Paco was a great hangers, which could compete with these giants of Calligraphy: Palomares Torío
the Sublime and the Divine, and even with the modern Iturzaeta; ability that had partly passed
on to his disciple, as the Rumble heir flat filled with admiration for the Bishop of Guadix when
he was to spend a few days at home. In addition, D. Paco was a good man, and trembled with fear
Countess before when she blamed her child's faults. He was dressed in black, always in ceremonial
dress, although not new, also using white wig, topped with huge bag. A guest outsiders treated
us very gently, for "the hospitality - he said - was special gift of ancient peoples, and should
be practiced by those present to teaching of posterity. "

X

The heritage of the house was good, although well below that of other families in Andalusia
and Castile, but told the Countess that would be the first in Spain after his inherit the
firstborn son with relatives in the collateral line of succession lacking direct.


Drake and Frobisher darted to the side together, as though moved by the same impulse, and leant
over the bulwarks, peering into the darkness and listening intently for any sound of oars that
should enable them to discover the whereabouts of the approaching craft.

Whoever the occupant of the boat might be, he was evidently neither an enemy nor a spy; for
hardly had the challenge left the seaman's mouth when the reply came out of the darkness, in
a thin, high-pitched, timid voice: "All alightee; all alightee; it only me."

"And who the mischief may `only me' be?" growled Drake, who had been very considerably startled,
and therefore felt rather annoyed with himself.

"Sh, sh! mastel," urged the voice; "you makee not so muchee shout; it vely dangelous.  Thlow
me lope, so I climb up; I got big piecee news for mastel."  And the sound of muffled oars was
again heard, this time evidently close to the ship.

"H'm!" muttered Drake under his breath to Frobisher; "I don't much like the look of this. 
It seems as though something had miscarried, for this fellow to come out here at this time
of night, with a `big piecee news'. I suppose there is no doubt the beggar really has a message
of some sort for us, so I'll have to let him come aboard.  But if he tries any hanky-panky
tricks, I'll send him over the side in double-quick time to feed the sharks.  I can't afford
to have this venture miss fire now. Jones, open the gangway, and throw a rope over the side,"
he added, turning to one of the seamen; "and stand by to hit, and hit hard, if everything is
not exactly as it should be."

A rope was allowed to slide over the side through the open entry port; and a moment later it
began to quiver as the occupant of the boat left his craft and proceeded to scramble up, hand
over hand.  Presently there appeared on deck a little, thin, wizened man, who might have been
any age over sixty.  He was clothed in nothing but a length of brown cotton material swathed
round his body, and round the upper part of each leg, the end being drawn up between the thighs
so as to form a kind of rough apology for a pair of knickerbockers.  His lower limbs and feet
were bare, and on his head he wore one of those high, broad-brimmed, conical hats that are
so common among the Koreans.

"Well," exclaimed Drake sharply, as this peculiar-looking individual reached the deck and stood
staring round him, "what the dickens d'ye want?  Who are ye?  What's your name?"

"My name Ling-Wong, mastel," replied the Korean, "and I come flom Excellency Kyong-Bah, at
Yong-wol."

"Phew!" whistled Drake, turning to Frobisher.  "Kyong-bah is the man I negotiated with about
this cargo.  What's in the wind, I wonder?  Yes-- go on," he added to Ling impatiently.  "What's
your message?"

"Me wait, mastel, six, seven day," said Ling, "wait fol the smoke-junk, to tell you that the
Govelnol at Seoul, he got know about evelything, and he sendee tloops catchee you, if he can.
Excellency Kyong-Bah tell me say you he must havee those lifles, and think you get them safe
thlough if you vely quick and caleful; but he tell me say you must hully, ol you be caught."

"And that's over a week ago!" groaned Drake.  "What chance have we, think you, Mr Frobisher,
of getting this cargo safely through now?"

"Oh!" exclaimed Frobisher cheerfully, seeing that Drake was inclined to take a dismal view
of things; "if we can get 'em ashore uninterfered with, I'll engage to deliver them to Kyong-Bah,
or whatever the johnny's name is, safely enough. But this know how to handle, and when he was with those blues,
he was not coming. One night came Centeno happier than usual, and without Fear was running
to where the master was to give the following part:

"The doctor says that the girl is out of danger ... that has not been
anything, and that today commanded to lift.

"

- Well - the master said dryly. And a moment later:

- Felipillo ... hey ... You can go to the theater this afternoon, which is Sunday. I do not
need ... Hey, hear. If the driver is on the order, do not tell other day to withdraw ... but
let me know.

Monologue.

"I have it stuck in my heart and I can not get started. Damn spine, how to caress buried, and
uprooted much it hurts! I've looked, unsociable man, bullet you only see in the darkness of barbarism
and civilization clarity and charm you do not know where you're going. The apple that I picked
it seemed good. I open and damaged. I'm more angry when I think that the party still has to be
healthy for another ... Because I concluded to her and she for me. His behavior was so bad
that I can not forgive ... I go, running away from her and this shadow of mine, this fake
and false that I wanted to adapt the vicious culture around here ... Marriage gives me nausea.
I hate as hate the tank in which we have been on the verge of falling ... I run this land and
this atmosphere, but I will not leave without seeing with my own
eyes the rotten apple and look well those healthy pieces that someone
else has to bite, not me, wretched and miserable, not being able to
walk in these thin soils, is always late ... And if the social decorum
prohibits me to see, I say to the Company that all of it and I care
cuddles four whistles, and I plant them in the middle of the street,
if necessary, yelling: 'Viva immorality, anarchy alive, live the nonsense!

"."

It was the seventh day, according to Philip, when the master arranged to go to France in express
train in the afternoon.

From early on he was accompanied by his cousins, and dedicated her Rosalia to be useful, looking
for occasions to show their activity. That day was very showy and probably had thrown the
rest in the work of his presumption.

"Beware, Augustine - say between sentimental and cheerful - we write,
at least once week.

Look we can not live without knowing of you often. We were inconsolable. I I will answer all your
letters, because Bringas is busy and can not do it ... And We will
not entertain much there, you come prontito.

Do not leave us much time in this sadness ... Fifteen days have enough rest. "

In about one warned the car and left without saying Augustine where
he was going.

In the preceding quarter the office, and Centeno Ido communicated their views on events.

IDO .--=( With the pen between the teeth, while drawing lines on paper
with pencil and ruler.) = Thank God we see the master happy.

You know what he said? I have so far not to do more to put in all the letters that come the signs
of Bordeaux.

RYE .--=( cupping his hand to reach the ear of D. José words spoken secret.) = I know where love
has gone. I came when he got into the car, and said the driver: Beat,
4.

IDO .--=( with surprise.) = Going to leave it ... Here in confidence,
Felipe, I think the master not looking for his decency to take this
step.

Because, frankly, son, of course, the honor ...

RYE .-- The doctor has said you're out of danger ...

IDO .-- Slowly ... Tia, who attends on behalf of the Lord, (and I suppose we must assistance
to pay well) Tia says ...

RYE .--=( Impatient.) = What?

IDO .-- Let me make these lines of ink ... Well said ... Before I
tell you what I think.

RYE .-- What have you thought?

IDO .-- I
trust him ... quietly. Well I think the lady is left with no Amparo
that a solution to regenerate ... What is it? Here's communicate ...
with the greatest reserve. Grande has been the lack ... as atonement,
boy, atonement ...

RYE .-- While away at once ...

IDO .--=( With
presumptuous sufficiency.) = In short, it remained to be sister of
Charity ... This, upon being poetic, is a means of regeneration ...
I do not say anything ... heal the sick and wounded in hospitals and
camps ... Walk from work ...! Imagine whether it will play with those
beautiful white ...

RYE .--=( bewildered.) = It is yummy.

IDO .--
Je je ... Sister of Charity. It has no other way.

By the time he had said good-bye to the skipper, and had received his instructions with regard
to the collection of the purchase-money and sundry other matters, the last of the cargo had
been sent ashore; and Drake's own gig was waiting at the foot of the accommodation-ladder to
take the young man to the landing-place.

As he was on the point of descending the side-ladder, Drake asked him to wait a moment, and
ran down below; reappearing, a few seconds later, with a serviceable ship's cutlass in his
hand, which he himself belted round Frobisher's waist.

"Revolvers are all very well in their way," remarked the little skipper; "but sometimes a man
is too busy fighting to have time to reload, and then he is very glad to have a yard of good,
stout steel in his fist. Take it along with you, Mr Frobisher.  If there should happen to be
a scrap, I feel sure you will find it mighty handy.  Avoid a fight if you can, of course; but,
as Charlie Dickens says in that play of his, Jim the Penman, `once in a fight so carry yourself
that the enemy shall be sorry for himself.'  Good-bye, my boy, and take care of yourself!"

With a laughing reply Frobisher clasped Drake's hand once more, and ran lightly down the ladder
into the boat; and fifteen minutes later he found himself safely ashore.  The boat pulled back
to the ship, where the remainder of the small fleet were already being hoisted up to the davits;
and he was alone in a strange land, charged with a dangerous mission, with no white man to
share his burden, and with only one man, Ling, who had even a nodding acquaintance with the
English language.

Escort there was none, in the usual sense of the word, for the drivers of the carts containing
the arms and ammunition-chests, although armed with old-fashioned muzzle-loading muskets, out-of-date
halberds, and, in some cases, bows and arrows, could not possibly be relied upon to put up
any sort of a fight in the event of an encounter with the regular Korean soldiery.  The only
person beside himself who was armed with a modern weapon was the interpreter, Ling, who carried
a fairly recent and reliable Marlin repeating rifle, holding eight cartridges; but this was
all the ammunition he had, so that, if trouble arose, he could not be relied upon very far, either.

Having reached the village, Frobisher took Ling with him and went off to see that the carts
were properly loaded, and the mule-drivers at their stations; and to his astonishment found
that, in spite of the proverbial slackness of the Korean, everything was in readiness, and
only his word was necessary to enable the caravan to start. 

My Dear Friend: Well I wanted to write something new specifically to devote to V, but my poor
wits are withered and dry for two or three years, and I start to lose hope that grows green again
and blossom again someday.  So he did not waste any time, but, after a last look round, to see that everything
was satisfactory, commanded Ling to set the caravan in motion, himself remaining behind until
the last cart had left the village, in order to make sure that, at the last moment, none of
the drivers should shirk the risks and try to desert.

There was no attempt of the kind, however.  The Korean mule-drivers appeared absolutely apathetic
and indifferent to any possible danger. They were being well paid for their trouble, and "sufficient
unto the day" was evidently their motto.  Satisfied, therefore, that there was nothing to fear
in that respect, Frobisher mounted the elderly steed which he had managed to purchase at about
ten times its proper value, and rode to the head of the column, where he found Ling, already
fast asleep on the back of the mule which he had elected to ride.

So the long column was at last fairly started on its perilous hundred miles' journey into the
interior of Korea--a journey which involved the negotiation of heavy, ill-made roads, the fording
of deep, swift rivers and streams, and, most difficult of all, the passage of the range of
lofty hills on the other side of which the town of Yong-wol, their destination, was situated.

For a long time, until, in fact, the caravan disappeared from view among the trees, Captain
Drake watched it through his telescope; and, when finally the last cart disappeared in the
forest, the man whom Frobisher had once called his "little pirate" was not ashamed to follow
the example of his illustrious namesake of immortal memory.  He went down to his cabin and
remained there for some minutes, actually praying for the safe return of the man to whom he
had grown to be very sincerely attached--our friend Murray Frobisher.

It was about three o'clock in the afternoon when the caravan got away from Sam-riek, and urge
and command and even implore as he might, Frobisher was quite unable to get the expedition
farther than ten miles from the coast before darkness fell and it became necessary to camp
for the night.  A suitable place for an encampment was eventually found, on an open, level
strip of ground by the side of a considerable stream, about half a mile ahead, a distance which
Frobisher was compelled to force the drivers to traverse almost at the muzzle of the pistol.
He managed, however, to convince the dull-witted Koreans that another half-mile would not kill
them; and about seven o'clock the party pulled up at the spot selected.  A couple of the carts
contained provisions, and on the top of these Frobisher had placed a bundle containing a tent
and blankets for his personal use.

He pitched the tent, spread his blankets on the ground, and then, before allowing the men to
prepare their supper, ordered that all the vehicles should be formed into a circle, with his
own tent in the centre, the shafts of each being run in under the hind wheels of the one in
front, so as to form a fairly effective barricade, which would at least prevent the camp being
rushed without warning, should an attack be made by the enemy.  He also took care that the
mules were picketed within the enclosure so formed, so that they might not stray away or be
stolen; and finally, he told off half a dozen of the best-armed and most resolute-looking men,
under the command of Ling, to act as sentries in different watches during the first half of
the night, resolving to keep watch himself during the second half--the period during which
there was most likelihood of danger.

These arrangements having been made, Frobisher served out their rations to the men, partook
of his own supper, and, leaving strict orders with Ling that he was to be called at midnight,
went to his tent, rolled himself up in his blankets, laid his cutlass and revolvers beside
him, and was soon asleep.

He did not know how long he had been sleeping when he suddenly awoke, with a sense of danger
and oppression strong upon him.  Like most men who pass their lives at sea, or in uncivilised
parts of the world, he seemed to be possessed of a sixth sense which always gave him warning
when there was peril at hand; and it was this sense which now brought him broad awake in an
instant, with his ears straining to catch the least sound, and his eyes peering through the
darkness to catch the first glimpse of an intruder.

Like a wise man, he refrained from making the slightest sound that might betray his whereabouts
to a prowling assassin; but, slowly and very carefully, he disengaged his arms from the blankets
and reached out for one of his revolvers.  With this in his hand he felt much more comfortable,
and fully prepared for eventualities.

Then, sitting up carefully, Frobisher again listened intently for some sound which might tell
him the position of the danger, if any; but, strain his ears as he might, he could catch not
the slightest suggestion of a warning.  There was, however, a certain faint, peculiar odour
in the tent, which he felt sure proceeded neither from the canvas nor from the blankets.  Very
faint indeed it was, and it would perhaps have been quite imperceptible to anybody with a less
keen olfactory sense than Frobisher possessed; but it was there, all the same, and he felt
that he would very much like to identify it and determine its origin.  It was not unpleasant--indeed
the suggestion was of a pleasant perfume, a perfume which he had often smelt before; but what
that perfume was he could not for the life of him recall just at the moment.

One thing was certain, however, and that was that there had been no such odour in the tent
when he went to sleep; and it must therefore have been brought in by somebody since then. 
Now, nobody but himself had any business there, unless it were Ling come to wake him.  But
Ling would, or should, have stood at the entrance and called him; or at the most, if calling
had not aroused him, have come boldly in and shaken him. 

This is the region that I had to cross, following the stream of Magdalena, to give my farewell
to the homeland.

       

* * * * *

The Champagne turned away from the beach, paddles stirred the beat of the wild cries the bream, and
few minutes later, to turn its course for between monstrous crags
Magdalena, lost sight of the last tufts of coconut trees that indicated
the site of the winery.

The man disappeared to give the field exclusively to the vegetation.

Always huge, wide at first, loved everywhere, presenting the most beautiful the high cliffs overlooking
the shore, or in the luxurious halls of vegetables that came to extend their floating lace parasitic
vines on the beach itself, to where it leaves to heat in ignited sand beds, the fearsome and
monstrous crocodile, the terror of the inhabitants wave. And entire forests are secular cedar
with its dark shadow covering a slope failures disrupted by the upheavals of nature, and groups
of towering palms are pavilions where flocks of parrots swinging gorgeous; and on the cliff
of red clay layers composed of mixed layers, rises a group of giant guaduas (bamboo), which for a
thousand thin woven covered Bejuquillo flowers, flexible cast their feathers on the waves of
the river, and open for fans the wind, where a fairy forest has drawn on the most whimsical
green background arabesques and mosaics.

Everywhere luxury and lush vegetation, rich contrasts and variety of forms and colors in nature,
but complete absence of population and culture. If still note inflections in the field, is
because they have not yet completed the ramifications that two main mountain ranges of the Andes
- Central and Eastern - throw on the Magdalena different directions.

After the hills disappear, the forests are horizon, and eye of the traveler, tired and sad, sees
nothing but endless desert.

A nine or ten miles from Honda leads on the left, a small crystal clear river the Guarín, after having
fertilized the most precious imaginable plain - plain fruitful, varied grasses and covered with
immense forests of palm trees of all kinds and Caracolí giant whose
shadow walking in the numerous tribes of solid blacks and tapirs,
pursued by the terrible jaguar, while in the high battlements of the
trees are countless birds air concerts and always surprising.

       

* * * * *

After five hours of sailing, the champagne is docked alongside the steamer Bogota, anchored
in the port wine Rabbit. The landscape, seen from afar, could not be more gorgeous.

On the high cliff, covered in soft green grass, in all its extension, groups of huts bogas
room rustic and poor farmers in the desert in the vast central Winery building, thatched roofing,
single floor, and behind and between houses admirable forest, in
which a green background contrasted different inks beautiful hair
Coconut on the slender neck, palms of the guaduas colossal curling,
the round leaves of mango and mamey, and ramazones stout cedar and
Caracoli those sovereign sumptuous deserts jungles of Colombia.

And at the foot of these rich woods and these huts filled with local color, animated groups
passenger and vogues, so discordant and varied, and forming a curious contrast as The steam
that made champagne and Bogotá and indigenous households. On one side the luxury of nature, untamed
and magnificent, fragrant and full of mystery, the other the luxury of civilization, science,
and the ostentation of force man victorious. There the man primitive, crude, brutal, lazy, semi-wild
and retostado by the tropical sun, ie the Colombian fashion - with all his insolence, his fanaticism
stupid, cowardly arrogance, his incredible laziness and cynicism of language, children of ignorance
rather than the corruption, and more here European, active, intelligent, and elegant white,
often blond with his penetrating gaze and poetry, language, vibrant
and fast, its elevation of spirit, always distinguished forms.

On the one hand the heavy champagne, boat canopies dry palms, 20 to 50 feet long and two or three
wide - a kind of floating hut, - and assembled by many rowers who shout terribly and look like a
legion of wild desert or the miserable Indian Ramada, exposed to the wrath of the winds, the invasions
of the reptiles and wild beasts, or showers the storms of winter, with an extravagant household
as poor, and to cherish family savage appearance, the result of crossing two or three different races,
and for which Christianity is a mixed report of impiety and idolatry, the law an incomprehensible
mess, civilization a thick fog, and the future as the present and
past merge in a situation like torpor, indolence and brutality!

And at the foot of those huts that are under transition to a life that is closer to barbarism progress
still, stood the chimney, the pavilion and masts and picturesque sides Steam Bogota to protest
against barbarism, and prove that even in the midst of the desert and the sublime mystery of an
imponderable nature by force, the man is about to start universal sovereignty, making success
all over the strength of spirit on the power of matter. How well contrasted in the port of Rabbit
steam chimney, releasing their puffs of smoke and the wind carried away by the rain, with the
mast thin secular high and coconut, topped by swinging the breath of that wind the curly palm canopy
and flexible. The coconut tree, planted from colonial times, continued to vegetate, but the
vapor, son of the republic and instrument of freedom, came to wrap
in his smoke screens, greeting him with whistles of the locomotive.

       

* * * * *

The evening offered a wonderful scene, and to increase the incidents of contrast. In Bogotá
steam we met people from very different. The captain was a brave Genoese, Republican, free,
simple and cordial, and the passengers had not only Granadinos few, but British, French and German.
The warmth was established Suddenly, as always happens in every trip, and an Irishman of 62 years,
as big as a tower happy as a boy, drinking first order, as was his duty to honor their nationality,
and mocking and playful as all Irish (except those who are serious), introduced a delicious
disorder on the deck. Sang, danced solo, played violin and drums (instruments which I understand are
not bound by a close fraternity), and finally communicate to all its excellent humor. A few
moments later the nearby jungle echoed with the fiery chorus of all passengers singing (everyone
in the tone in which the podium) and the Marseillaise, the hymn sublime war and freedom, and
God Save the Queen's English, and the songs more or less popular New Granada, Germany and Ireland.
An hour after these edges of civilization and when all reposábamos in our hammocks, amid the
shadows and silence, a hymn entirely different, wild and melancholy, full of mystery, grandeur
and harsh poetry, suddenly exploded, supported by fifty voices hoarse and heavily rhythmic,
in the middle of a forest in neighboring secular beach. Case, intonation, style and mystery of
that song came to contrast beautifully with the hot little songs
before had sprouted from the sides of steam Bogotá.

Although the show I was unknown, I could not resist the temptation of looking at closely. So,
I jumped out of my hammock, I invited two friends and I went ashore, taking the direction we
indicated the song itself and a red light that glowed in the shadows of thick the forest. The
beach was deserted and not a fashionable sleeping on the awnings
of champagne tied to an anchor of iron and thick trunks.

After walking for a trip two hundred meters, by the middle of the woods, find an extremely
interesting show.

Under the canopy of a huge cedar tree, in a clean and sandy, there was a large fire fed with thick
trunks, conifer branches and large chunks of amber, junior, which is very abundant in those endless
forests. The flare was gorgeous, the perfume rich, and the trees cast shadows Hadan play with
light in an admirable fashion. At around the campfire were kneeling in confusion as fifty people
- men and women, old and young, locals and bream - and all at once with a voice raucous and rhythmic,
but too expressive about their accent, sang a hymn mortuary!

... Novena was a neighbor who had died three days earlier and whose body was buried at a short
distance away.

The song was a set of prayers in verse, extravagant, made by the boatmen and always used around
novena, and the chorus, so incomprehensible in language as strong
in intonation, consisted of a species of quatrain verses of six syllables.

Three men first sang a verse, all responded with the refrain, and then three women sang another,
and so on.

I confess that in this wild scene, but full of the charm of faith and piety, found more poetry
and more religion in the songs of steam Bogotá.

       The intonation was deep and somber, solemn, in spite of its rustic
harmony, and I was in that scene a big impression and teaching.

Poetry is unquestionably the most sublime manifestations of the soul their relationship with God,
man and nature.

* * * * *

On February 2, Bogotá steam picked up his anchor, he released his whistle morning, similar to
the cry the wild, and shaking with iron wings the murky waves of Magdalena, slid rapidly among
the dense green canopies of the jungle, leaving his brilliant marked foam floating trail in
illuminating the morning sun.

What impression so profound experience the heart of the patriot, dreamer of progress, when
trusts for the first time, as a traveler, to the second initiative, to the invisible spirit
of humanity, transfused into mechanical power, called the steam! The wave humiliates, running
fugitive, to the conqueror that crosses without fear it and lashes
the wheels of her triumphal car, the monster in the water seeks its
hidden caves in abyss, realizing that the empire of the liquid element
belongs to an infinitely higher, and the hurricane, that Jupiter formless
breath destroyer, which prevails on solitudes of the wilderness of
the jungle, the sand and ocean, seems tame in the presence of opposed
to a travel writer who shocks supreme creation of the mysterious force
science triumphant!

The Vapor! Ah! what a sight for a man of faith! That summed up for me marvel all progress and
glory of man, all the divinity of this being made to moral likeness of God, carries in his mind
the immortal attributes intelligent and thoughtful soul, Each wheel, each cylinder, each member
of the machine Bogotá seemed the picture of each of muscles and vital organs of man, there was concreted
the whole story humanity, because that machine was inspired by the
man motion, strength, tenacity, genius, faith, life, spirit, light,
civilization, progress unlimited and eternal.

My soul was dominated by a deep meditation. Sitting on the foredeck, the side of the wheelhouse,
looked with great pleasure the transparent and blue sky, high the Andes mountains, forests, river
and how the picture was, and from the bottom of my grateful heart, bless all revolutions, the heroic
efforts and dedication of men and peoples, giving his blood to the
past, we have won to posterity the progress of today and the future.

       

* * * * *

Nare to the port of all is varied and picturesque, Rabbit down. The neighborhood the mountainous
terrain allows inflections, and so soon the traveler is surprised In view of the huge forests
or small plains that end at the river, and admire intermediary the lush vegetation, high petrified
sandstone rocks, the dark mouths the Tigrito and other streams whose channel seems an endless
grotto verdure waves Blue and Black rivers abundant and La Miel, which support one and other side
of the tape Turkey to its current, without mixing with the Magdalena at the beginning, the picturesque
village Buena-Vista, located on a ravine and surrounded by high walls
of a centuries-old forest, dark background on which the masts are
drawn from the coconut and the white wall of the chapel parish and
a thousand other things that contribute to give the landscape variety
and charm.

Nare little above the monotony begins and guarumos endless forests, tree light gray that looks
like a ghost in the skeleton, to give the banks an aspect of sadness and sterility. The sun burns
like an ember, heat, 36 degrees is sufocante, and desolation of nature begins. Nare is a district of
population and look miserable unhealthy, and that except two or three families, it contains
but rowers and people of Indo-African race. HOWEVER, it is a very important point for internal
trade, for the State scale of Antioquia, and a nearby nice, fairly
flow is navigated by barges and canoes seven leagues above its mouth.

Nare was augmented in the number of passengers with a sturdy Scottish, mine operator, a dentist,
which inevitably turned out to be Yankee, and Antioquia that, as soon as it entered steamed,
promoted a raffle, and began his speculations. The Antioquia, descendants mostly of an expedition
of Jews from the time of Philip III, are the Israelites New Granada,
in point of business and travel, even on open and empty bottles are
essentially British.

One mile down is the famous Angostura Nare, terror of the sailors, and out of it begins the region
of the gorgeous islands of vegetation, more and more numerous, because the Magdalena, widening
a lot about an area of ​​low-level flooding, endless as plain jungle diseminasus water in all
directions. For the rest, nature loses all their variety, - the vegetation, subject to floods,
appears skeleton, colorless and rough, and the hills out of sight
entirely.

Is no longer there but the desert immense, parched and no majesty or beauty.

On February 3 impressions what pleasant surprises, and pest and fatigue! First the encounter
the beautiful Vapor Antioquia, which rose from Barranquilla, light, color painted alive, like
a big bird, barely touching the waves of Magdalena. And there's screams happiness, the noisy greetings
among the passengers of both steam whistles gallant valves of locomotives, and teasing each
other sailors, spicy and original in the extreme.

Steam Antioquia had a strong loading of senators and representatives, undoubtedly uninsured,
and therefore his trip was doubly interesting.

Then, the beautiful river Carare, leading to the right, deep blue, with a vegetation fresh and
gorgeous, navigable by steam, and serving as the means of direct
communication between Magdalena and the peoples of the former province
of Velez, ie the states Santander and Boyaca.

This river is very beautiful future, and not too late trade Granada will give you all the attention
it deserves.

Carare below appears to oppose, also beautiful river, whose sands studded with gold serve of
milk to a gentle stream, deep and clear. And what memories of seeing the mouth of that river!
It was there that Gonzalo Jimenez de Quesada, conquistador of the
New Kingdom of Granada, entered in 1536, dominating as supreme incredible
difficulties and dangers, history, to be fair, you should consider
this issue as the most heroic, the most extraordinary conquistador
anyone has ever driven and accomplished.

If Yélez territories Relief and sent to the Magdalene its beautiful water quota of rivers and
Opon Carare, both browsers and delicious, the highlands of Tunja and Pamplona contribute their
wealth of Sogamoso or Colorado River, which flows near the new port of Barrancabermeja. Here,
Magdalena highly enriched with the wealth of so beautiful rivers, making grandiose proportions that
make it impressive, while the beautiful islands that arise here and there, one very large (the
Morales), give the landscape, beautifully lit, an incredible resemblance
to the lower Danube, judging from the I've sailed.

Below the State of Antioquia Sogamoso contribute (in addition to the Honey and Nare rivers) with
the romantic and beautiful river of the Scimitar, which recalls the eternal storms prevailing minerals
in the hills of a ridge of the same name that separates the region of Antioquia those of Simití
and Majagual. The rowers have concerns that a thousand bizarre hidden river bed of gold dust
and dark and impenetrable woods, and have many legends, making the sign of the cross on the dangerous
metal seekers who, having gone to within the course of the river, have not gone back to look
more in Mompos. The inhabitants of Saint-Paul village situated at a short distance from the confluence
of the Scimitar, to make responsible Mohan or Huan, terrible god of the caves and the great wells
of rivers, of the misdeeds committed by the jaguars, snakes and solid blacks to the detriment
of the unwary seekers gold. HOWEVER, I must state that the Mohan such a character does not strike
me as absurd as belief, if you notice that the bottom line is the Devil, but a devil poetic, highly
romantic, and therefore superior, under the artistic point of view
and spiritual, the mundane and vulgar devil sends us believe the Holy
Mother Church.  If I
have to drown every man of the caravan, and you too," he added, "I'm going to manage it somehow,
so you understand.  And now that I've told you this, tell me in return whether there is any
other place beside this where we can cross?"

"No, mastel," said Ling, "no othel place.  This only place anywhele. And no can closs hele,
mastel can see fol himselluf."

"Well," said Frobisher determinedly, "if this is the only place, this is where we cross.  The
river is rising very rapidly, and the longer we delay the worse it will be; you see, therefore,
that there's no time to waste.  I'm going to ride in to find how deep the water is, and, what's
more, my friend, you are coming with me."  As he spoke, the young sailor grasped the bridle
of Ling's mule, dug his heels into his own animal's sides, and together the Englishman and
the now thoroughly frightened Korean descended the steep bank and plunged into the river.

Not until he was actually in the water did Frobisher realise how deep and how swift was the
current; yet his horse seemed to betray no uneasiness, and the river deepened only very slightly
as they pushed forward.  He therefore grasped the Korean's bridle more firmly, took his own
bridle between his teeth, so as to have one hand free, drew his feet out of the stirrups in
order to get clear of the horse if the animal were washed off its feet, and brought his open
hand down with a resounding smack upon the brute's hind-quarters.

With a snort, the beast plunged forward with a rush, the mule following reluctantly after,
with Ling clinging desperately to its neck. Fortunately the water remained shallow, and the
adventurous Englishman was just congratulating himself on getting safely across without mishap
when there came a despairing shriek from Ling, the bridle was wrenched from Frobisher's hand,
and he wheeled in the saddle in the nick of time to see Ling's mule lose its footing and sink
back into the swirling torrent, flinging the shrieking Korean off its back into the water.
The man immediately disappeared from view, all that was visible of him being a hand and an
arm, waving frantically to and fro and clutching helplessly at the empty air.  Evidently the
mule had planted its foot in a hole, stumbled, and been swept off the narrow ford into deep
water; and, unless something were done quickly, it looked as though Ling were in danger of
being drowned.

The Korean had twice attempted to take Frobisher's life, and it would have been far more convenient
and safer, as regarded himself, for the leader of the expedition to have let the man drown;
but that leader was an Englishman, with all an Englishman's traditions behind him, and he could
not stand idly by and see a fellow creature perish, however well-deserving of such a fate the
man might be.  So, without a moment's hesitation, Frobisher dragged his horse's head round
by main force, and urged him, by voice, heel, and hand, off the causeway into the flood, and
headed downstream after Ling, who had by this time risen to the surface and was yelling madly
for mercy and help.  But the sailor soon perceived that if he pursued his present tactics the
Korean would be swept away and drowned before being overtaken; so, casting his eyes keenly
about him, Frobisher picked out a spot a little distance lower down, where the banks appeared
slightly less steep than elsewhere, and urged his animal in that direction.

Presently he was fortunate enough to feel solid ground under his horse's feet, and a few moments
later was safely ashore and riding hard along the bank, parallel with the stream.  By this
time Ling had swallowed a considerable quantity of water, and his lungs were already half-full;
it was evident, therefore, that in a few minutes the fellow would sink for the last time. 
But Frobisher was now abreast of him, and a few seconds later he sighted another low place
in the bank where he could re-enter the stream.  Urging his animal to top speed, in another
moment he was plunging down the bank into the water.  The plunge submerged both horse and rider
for the moment, and when Frobisher's head again appeared he saw Ling's body swirling past him
in the strongest part of the current. Another moment and Frobisher had drawn the man to him,
hoisting his head clear of the water on to the peak of the saddle in front of him.  He then
steered the horse to the bank, and was fortunate enough to be able to regain solid ground without
further mishap.  He lowered Ling carefully to the ground, dismounted himself, and, after securing
his horse by the bridle to a convenient tree, set about the task of restoring the half-drowned
Korean to consciousness.

Frobisher had had a good deal of "first-aid" experience during the period of his service in
the Navy, and he therefore knew exactly what to do.  Laying the Korean flat on his back, he
knelt on the ground astride of the body, seized both Ling's wrists in his hands, and then proceeded
to move the man's arms slowly backward and forward from a position right above his head forward
to the sides of his body, and then back again, thus actually pumping air forcibly into the lungs.

After a few minutes of this treatment Ling began to show signs of returning life, and before
long he opened his eyes, coughed chokingly, and then rolled over on his side, vomiting up the
water he had swallowed and coughing it out of his lungs as well.  Then Frobisher completed
his work of restoration by administering a sip or two of brandy from the cup belonging to his
emergency flask, and a few more moments later Ling was able to stagger to his feet.

Then, and not until then, did the Korean appear to recover his full faculties and recognise
who it was that had saved him from a watery grave.

The Korean licked his dry lips and, carefully avoiding looking his rescuer in the face, stammered
out some kind of thanks to his master for saving his life; and Frobisher observing the man's
manner, became more than ever convinced that there was treachery in the wind, and determined
to be thoroughly on his guard, day and night.

But there was no time to think about such matters just now; the river was rising higher every
moment, and if the carts were to be got safely across without the loss of men, mules, or cargo,
it was necessary to set things in motion immediately.  On the opposite bank of the stream were
now collected some of the Sam-riek drivers who had run along so as to be "in at the death"
as they fully expected, and Frobisher sharply ordered them back to their posts, telling them
to get the caravan in motion and prepare to cross.

The men had seen their leader negotiate the ford in safety, so they were not quite so timid
as might have been expected, and as the heavily-laden carts formed a kind of anchorage and
support to both mules and drivers, the young man soon had the satisfaction of seeing the entire
caravan safely on the desired side without loss, when he immediately got the procession once
more in motion toward Yong-wol.

During the whole of that day they travelled along the jungle road, with the thick, solid greenery
hemming them in on each side, and the sun pouring down upon them like a flame.  Ling marched
along, silent and morose, never speaking a word unless Frobisher actually addressed him or
ordered him to translate some command to the men; and it was with unfeigned thankfulness that,
just as the sun was about to set, the young man saw, not far ahead of him, a small clearing
somewhat similar to the one where they had camped on the previous evening, and determined to
spend the night there.

The carts were drawn up in precisely similar formation, and supper was cooked; and by the time
that this was disposed of, all hands were more than ready to seek their couches.  Frobisher
had already pitched his tent, and had just entered it to get his cutlass and second revolver
when Ling came up to him.

"Me keep filst watch, mastel, same as last night," he remarked ingratiatingly.

Frobisher looked fixedly at him for a few moments, and Ling lowered his eyes.

"No, my man," answered the Englishman; "I keep first watch to-night. You kept it yesterday,
I keep it to-day.  Now run away and get your rest, Ling.  I expect you need it after your experience
this morning."

Ling gritted his teeth under his long, scanty moustache.  This arrangement would not suit his
plans at all.  Why could not these eccentric westerners be consistent? he wondered.  The Englishman
kept second watch yesterday, and Ling had fully expected that he would do the same again; while
now--

"Me lathel watch filst, mastel," he pleaded; "me no sleepy.  You sleep now, mastel; me look out."

"Look here, my man," exclaimed Frobisher, wrathfully, "who's master here, you or I?  Just understand
this, as it will save trouble in the future.  When I tell you to do a thing, just remember
that you've got to do it, and do it at once.  Now, get away to wherever you're going to lie
down, and I'll call you when it's time for you to go on duty.  No, not another word; off you
go, without any more palaver."

For a moment it seemed as though Ling intended to disobey.  Then the Englishman's great stature
and commanding presence had their effect, and he slunk off and lay down under one of the wagons,
but not to sleep.  He simply lay there leaning on his elbow, regarding Frobisher with a malignant
expression.  About a couple of hours later, after darkness had fallen upon the camp for some
considerable time, and the rest of the men were asleep, he began to listen for something; and
Frobisher would have been intensely interested could he but have glanced into Ling's mind and
read what was working there.

About ten o'clock Frobisher began to feel so drowsy, that although he had made the rounds only
half an hour previously he determined to repeat them, in order to avoid falling asleep at his
post; so, taking up the lantern and cautiously feeling his way, to avoid stepping on the slumbering
forms of any of the men, he began again to make the circuit of the camp.

Ling had been in his place, apparently sound asleep, when Frobisher had passed half an hour
previously, but when the young man now directed the light of his lantern under Ling's cart
he saw that the fellow was no longer there; and a hurried survey of the camp soon convinced
him that the Korean was nowhere within the circle of the carts.  He must therefore be outside,
Frobisher argued; and, if outside, where, and what doing?

There could be but one answer to that question, so, without a moment's hesitation, Frobisher
set to work to arouse the slumbering Koreans, afterwards herding them in front of him until
he had them all collected together in a little knot in the centre of the camp.

He next endeavoured, in "pidgin" English, to make them comprehend the situation as it presented
itself to him; but, unfortunately, they were men who had seldom or never come in contact with
white people, and he soon saw that they did not understand a word he was saying.  He was compelled,
therefore, to fall back upon signs; and after a time they began to comprehend dimly what it
was that their leader was trying to tell them.

When at length he had succeeded in impressing upon them the fact that the camp was in imminent
danger, he took four of their number to one of the carts, unloaded one of the chests of rifles
and one of ammunition, broke both open, and distributed the weapons and a quantity of ammunition
to each Korean, at the same time carefully instructing them by repeated action how to load
and fire the rifles.  Luckily, the men were quick to learn, and appeared delighted with the
weapons, which they seemed to look upon as presents; but Frobisher fully realised that, however
willing they might be, they would scarcely be able to hold out long against regular troops,
even though the latter were poorly trained--especially if those troops should appear, as might
be fully expected, in overwhelming numbers.

It was his duty, however, to protect the property committed to his charge as long as he could;
and there was always the possibility that the rebels at Yong-wol might come part of the way
to meet him, and that the sound of firing might bring them to his assistance.  He therefore
selected a rifle for himself, stuffed a quantity of ammunition into his breeches pockets--the
pockets of his coat being full of revolver cartridges--and then went round, placing his small
force of some twenty men in the most sheltered and advantageous positions he could arrange.
After this there was nothing to be done but to keep a sharp look-out and await developments.

These were not long in coming.  Frobisher had barely found time to get his men to their places,
and to arm himself--having previously enjoined strict silence, by signs again, of course--when
his straining ears caught slight, rustling sounds in the jungle close at hand.  They were the
sounds of bush, fern, and shrub being cautiously pushed aside--the sounds of the stealthy approach
of a considerable body of men; and it soon became abundantly evident that the camp was entirely
surrounded, and that it was to be attacked from all sides at once.

Frobisher flitted hither and thither silently, peering into the jungle from between the carts
and underneath the wheels; and he was presently able, by the dim light of the stars, to distinguish
that the whole bush was in barely perceptible motion.  The attackers were at the very edge
of it, evidently only waiting for the command to commence operations; the Englishman, therefore,
determined, by being first, to secure the advantage of surprise himself.  At his shouted word
the Koreans discharged their rifles into the jungle at point-blank range, reloading on the
instant; while Frobisher heightened the effect by selecting a spot where he could already see
the glint of rifle barrels in the starlight and discharging all six chambers of both his revolvers
in that direction.

The effect upon the attackers must have been considerable, for immediately following the discharge
there arose a tremendous outburst of shrieks, yells, and groans, shouted orders, and cries
of encouragement; and Frobisher saw several forms leap out of the bush and go crashing to earth
in the clearing.

He had just time to re-load his revolvers before the surrounding bush burst into a perfect
tempest of flame and lead, indicating that the Government troops must be present in force. 

I.

There was, in very remote times in which we live is a powerful
king, loved to end their subjects, and possessed of a fertile, extensive
and populous kingdom in the regions beyond East.

King had this immense treasure, and gave lavish parties. Attended at his court the gentler
and more discreet ladies and brave knights who then had in the world. His army was large and
tough. Their ships traveled the ocean as if in triumph. Parks and gardens, where I used to hunt
and loose, were wonderful in its grandeur and lushness, and the copy of vermin and birds that
ate them and lived.

But what of their palaces and what was locked in his palaces, whose
magnificence exceeds any weight?

There delicious furniture, thrones of gold and silver, and tableware porcelain, which was less
common then than now; there dwarves, jigantes, jesters and other monsters for the leisure and
entertainment SM cooks and bakers there deep and prominent, which took care of their bodily food, and
there no less profound and eminent philosophers, poets and lawyers, who tended to give grass
to his spirit, who attended his privy council, who chose the most difficult questions of law,
which sharpened and exercised the ingenuity with and logogriphs charades and singing the glories
of the dynasty in colossal epics.

The subjects of this King rightly called him Fortunate. Everything went from good to better for
his reign. His life had been a fabric of happiness, whose brilliance marred only dark shadow
of pain with the early death of Mrs King, a very full and beautiful SM who had loved with all
his heart. Imagine, reader, what the cry, and more having been him, by the same love he had unblemished,
innocent cause of his death.

Tell the stories of that country that the King had seven years of marriage without achieving
succession, but vehemently desired, when a war occurred in the neighboring country. The King departed
with his troops, but before he took leave of the Queen with great affection. This, giving him a hug,
he whispered: - Do not tell anyone to not laugh if my hopes not achieved,
but I think I'm on tape.

The joy of the King with this new no bounds, and as everything goes well when you're happy,
he triumphed over his enemies in war, killed by his own hand to three
or four kings had made him do not know what trick, devastated cities,
made captive, and returned loaded loot and glory to the beautiful
capital of its monarchy.

This had happened in a few months, and thus to cross the King with great pomp in the city,
between the cheers and applause from the crowd and the clatter of
bells, Queen was giving birth, and bore with happiness and ease, despite
the noise and agitation, but were primiparous.

What would have appalling taste as SM when, on entering the royal chamber, the midwife more
the kingdom was introduced to a beautiful princess who was just born!

The King kissed her daughter and went full of joy, love and satisfaction, the room of Mrs.
Queen I was in bed so red, so fresh and pretty as a rose in May.

- My Wife! - Said the King, and his arms. But the King was so strong and it was so lively the
outpouring of affection, that without more or less accidentally drowned the Queen. So were the
screams, despair and call themselves animal itself, other eloquent samples of painful feeling.
But not so raised the Queen, who, though dead, was divine. A smile of ineffable joy would still
be hovering over his lips.

For They undoubtedly had flown the soul wrapped in a sigh of love and proud to have able to inspire
affection enough to produce that embrace. What a woman truly in love not envy the fate of
this Queen!

The King tried the much love he had, not only her life but after his
death.

Took a vow of perpetual chastity and widowhood, and who fulfilled. He ordered the poets compose
a funeral wreath, which still say it is in that realm as the most
precious jewel national literature. The court was three years of mourning.
The mausoleum which was built to Only later became the Queen of Caria
a paltry imitation.

But since, as the saying goes, no matter if it
lasts a hundred years, the king, after a couple of them, shook his
melancholy, and felt so fortunate or more fortunate than before.  As for the pain in
his head, that was of course accounted for by the stroke which he had received across his forehead
early in the fight.

He put up his hand to his aching brow, and discovered to his surprise that it had been carefully
bandaged, and that the wound had evidently been cleansed, for his hair was still damp, and
there was no clotted blood adhering to it.  Also he found, upon further investigation, that
his jacket had been removed, and that his body had been strapped up with rough wrappings. 
It appeared probable, therefore, that his captors had received orders to capture him alive,
if possible; otherwise, knowing as he did the usual methods adopted by the Chinese and Koreans
toward their wounded prisoners, he felt tolerably certain that he would have been barbarously
destroyed while still unconscious--particularly as he had been the direct means of bringing
a dreadful death upon so many of his assailants.  As he thought of this he could only come
to one conclusion--he had been kept alive in order that, upon his arrival at head-quarters,
he might be examined, by torture if necessary, as to the extent of his knowledge of the plot
against the Government, and as to the existence of any other schemes for bringing arms into
the country.

Now, he had no intention of being submitted to the diabolically ingenious torments practised
by the Korean executioners; the important thing, therefore, was to contrive, if possible, to
escape while there was yet time.  But before thinking about escape it was absolutely necessary
that he should discover his own whereabouts, and the number of men by whom he was at present
guarded.  He was now entirely unarmed, having no doubt dropped his cutlass and one of his revolvers
at the time when he had been struck down; while the second revolver, which had been in the
side pocket of his coat, had probably been discovered and seized when the jacket was stripped
off him by the individual who had attended to the wound in his side.

With a great effort and a wrench that caused him to bite his lips to bleeding-point, to keep
back his groans, Frobisher contrived to raise himself to a sitting posture, and he then discovered
that he was in a closed litter of some sort, or palanquin, which, he could tell by its short,
jerky motion, was being borne over very rough ground.

Feeling cautiously around him, in the faint hope that his jacket might have been thrown into
the palanquin, and with it, perhaps, the revolver still in the pocket, Frobisher's fingers
encountered one of the curtains, and gradually gathering it up, he was presently able to pull
it aside sufficiently to enable him to see out.

It was still dark, but the stars were shining brightly, and a thin slice of moon had risen
just clear of the treetops that bordered the jungle, so that the young Englishman was able
to make out his surroundings with comparative ease.  Marching alongside the palanquin, on each
side, at a distance of a few feet only, so narrow was the jungle path, was a line of Government
troops, their weapons, consisting of flint-locks, match-locks, halberds, old muzzle-loaders,
and, in a few cases, modern breechloaders, sloped over their shoulders; while close beside
the litter, but a little in advance, so that Frobisher was unable to see the man's face, walked
an officer with a drawn two-handed Chinese sword in his hand.  He was evidently quite prepared
to cut the prisoner down without parley, should he make the slightest attempt at escape.

Beside him walked another man, whom Frobisher had no difficulty in recognising as Ling; and
he was by no means grieved to observe that the Korean had also suffered damage; for Ling's
head was roughly bandaged, and his right arm hung down limp and useless, while he walked with
a limp that proved he had received an injury to his leg as well.  A cautious glance rearward
through the open curtains disclosed the fact that the caravan of carts was coming along in
the rear, escorted by a few files of troops; but there was nothing to be seen of the unfortunate
Sam-riek drivers, and Frobisher was forced to the conclusion that, rather than encumber themselves
with other prisoners, the soldiers had simply shot down and butchered the few who might have
remained alive after the capture of the encampment.

Having thus discovered all that was possible at the moment, Frobisher closed the curtains again
and threw himself back in the litter, a trifle relieved by his few breaths of fresh air, and
determined to sleep, if he could, so that he might the sooner recover his strength, and be
fit to attempt his escape should the chance occur.  As he painfully twisted his body round
so as to lie on his back, and thus take as much weight as possible off his broken ribs, he
became aware of something hard in his hip-pocket, and thrusting in his hand, he brought out
the little travelling-flask of brandy which he had used to revive Ling that very morning.

How little he had thought when he did so, that the next occasion on which he was to use it
would find him a prisoner in the hands of a barbarous soldiery, on his way--he had not a shadow
of doubt--to imprisonment and, only too probably, a revolting, lingering death at the end of all!

However, as he told himself, he was not dead yet--very far from it indeed; and while there
was life there was always hope.  So he took a good long pull at the flask, and felt so much
benefited and restored thereby that a very few minutes afterward he fell into a doze which,
although not exactly amounting to complete unconsciousness, yet served to mitigate to a considerable
extent the pain from which he was suffering, and mercifully prevented his mind from dwelling
unduly upon the horrid possibilities of the future before him.  Finally, he fell into a deep
and refreshing sleep.

When he awoke it was broad daylight, and the atmosphere was perceptibly cooler.  This, together
with the fact that the palanquin was frequently tilted to a considerable angle, and that the
bearers seemed to be finding some difficulty in retaining their footing, convinced him that
they must be descending the other side of the range of hills which he knew he would have had
to cross if he had been allowed to continue his journey to Yong-wol.  But he felt pretty certain
that Yong-wol was not the objective of the party.  Since they had been informed of the presence
of the caravan, they must naturally also have been told that a rebel force awaited its arrival
there; and they would, of course, take particular care to avoid an encounter, especially if
it were known that the rebels were there in force.

It was just noon by Frobisher's watch--which he had been allowed to retain, or which had escaped
the notice of his captors--when they regained level ground; and half an hour or so later the
company came to a halt, the litter was set down, and all hands, as Frobisher could see by looking
through the curtains, prepared to make a meal.

He was by this time beginning to suffer very severely from thirst, and had about made up his
mind to call for Ling and order him to bring some water, when that individual softly pulled
the curtains aside and stood looking down at the prisoner with an expression on his face that
Frobisher found difficult to fathom.  Then, seeing that the Englishman was conscious, Ling
remarked:

"Me glad see mastel open eyes again.  Me thinkee once that mastel killed dead."

"It is no fault of yours that I was not, you treacherous rascal!" returned Frobisher, so savagely
that the Korean involuntarily stepped backward a pace.  "If ever I get out of this and can
get my hands on you, I'll make you sorry for your betrayal of me!"

"Ah, mastel," exclaimed Ling, glancing apprehensively over his shoulder; "no speak so loud.
Listen.  When you save my life this molning, me wish velly much that me could wain you, but
me dale not then--it too late. But Ling nevel folget kindness of mastel; and me tly to savee
you, if can.  But to do that me must pletend me velly glad you caught; pletend me velly angly
against you.  Allee same, me not so leally; and me do allee can fol you on q.t."

Despite his anger and pain Frobisher could scarcely refrain from smiling at the quaint "pidgin"
English, especially the phrase "q.t.", which the man had evidently picked up from some Englishman,
and of which he seemed quite proud.  But he sternly repressed the inclination, and looked keenly
at Ling, to ascertain, if he could, whether the man were really in earnest in saying that he
would help him if he could.  The Korean now bore the scrutiny boldly, and did not lower his
eyes; and from the expression of his face Frobisher felt almost convinced that Ling meant what
he said.  If the fellow could be relied upon implicitly, he would be simply invaluable, and
might be the means of getting Frobisher out of the clutches of the Koreans; whereas, without
assistance, escape seemed almost beyond the bounds of possibility.  It was therefore in a gentler
voice that the Englishman said:

"Very well, Ling; I'll believe you.  And, what's more, if you prove yourself true to me, and
help me to effect my escape, I'll see that you are given a reward such as you have never before
dreamed of.  But if you want to prove that you are in earnest, for goodness' sake bring me
water, and plenty of it; I am nearly dying of thirst."

After another anxious glance round, as though he feared that, even at that distance, his and
Frobisher's conversation might have been overheard, Ling turned away with a heavy scowl on
his face--presumably to give the correct colour to his proposed part--and with an admirable
assumption of indifference went toward the place where the soldiers were already partaking
of their simple meal of boiled rice and a thin kind of soup, washed down by copious draughts
of raki, a strong, pungent spirit distilled from rice.

Here he picked up an empty cooking-pot, washed it out in the little brook by the side of which
they were encamped, filled it with water, and then sauntered back to Frobisher with it, dashing
it down on the ground so violently that at least half the contents were spilt.  This did not
greatly matter, however, since there was still sufficient left for the Englishman's requirements,
and the effect of the action was good.  If there was one man among them who appeared to hate
and despise the Englishman more thoroughly than the others, that man was Ling; and Frobisher
could scarcely bring himself to believe, even after Ling's assurance, that the feeling was
not genuine, so excellent was the man's acting--if acting it were.

Much refreshed by the water, Frobisher was able to swallow a little of the rice which the Korean
officer brought to him on a fibre mat, and immediately felt benefited by it.  With the cessation
of the jarring movement of the litter, too, the pain of his wounds became considerably less
acute, and altogether he was soon feeling much stronger and better. All the same, he decided
that it would be wise policy on his part to feign a continuance of extreme weakness and pain
for some time longer, in order to throw the enemy off their guard.  Naturally, they would not
be likely to watch him so closely if they believed him to be too feeble and too seriously injured
to be capable of making any attempt at escape; and perhaps before long a favourable opportunity
might present itself.

The soldiers did not linger very long over their meal, and the caravan was soon in motion again;
but Frobisher observed that this time their course was almost parallel with the hills, instead
of leaving them directly behind. In balancing obligations
on it, had known the value of time.

- Today there is no class - crying at the door.

And throwing his hat on a couch, began a dance step, getting away with child shrinks the arms
of her lover.

A few minutes later regained his composure, the gesture was often serious in it from the beginning of hostilities.
He spoke of his mother, always sad, trying to hide their grief and animated by the hope of
a letter from the child, spoke of the war, commenting recent actions under the rhetorical optimism
of the official parties. Thoroughly described the first flag taken from the enemy, like a
suit of unprecedented elegance. She had seen in a window of the Ministry of War. Is softened
by repeating stories of Belgian fugitives arrived at his hospital.

They were the only patients who had been attend so far. Paris did not get injured even war by the government
order sent from the front to the hospitals in the South.

No longer opposed by the resistance of the first day to the wishes of July. Your nurse learning
gave it a certain passivity.

Seemed to despise the attractions of the area, stripping them of the spiritual significance attributed
to them until recently. It gave no resistance without desire, with a tolerant smile, happy to
be able to give a bit of happiness, which she did not participate. His attention was focused
on other concerns.

One afternoon, being in the bedroom of the study, felt the need to communicate some news that from
the previous day filled his mind. He jumped out of bed, looking through his clothes littering
the handbag, which contained a letter. I wanted to read it again, report to someone's content
with dragging irresistible impulse to confession.

It was a letter his brother had sent from the Vosges.

She spoke at Laurier rather than himself. Belonged to a different drummer, but included in the same
division and had taken part in similar battles. The officer looked up to his old brother. Who a hero
would have guessed that engineer future peaceful and quiet! ... And But it was a true hero.
Proclaimed him the brother of Margaret, and with it all officers who had seen him do his duty
quietly, braving death with as coolly as if he were in his factory, near Paris.

Risky as requested by the observer, sliding as close as possible to the enemy to monitor the accuracy
of artillery fire, grinding your telephone instructions. A German shell had demolished the house whose
roof was hidden. Laurier, to emerge unscathed from the rubble, reset your phone and went quietly
to continue the same work in the branches of a nearby grove.

Its battery was discovered in an unfavorable match enemy planes had received the concentrated fire
of the artillery in front.

In a few minutes rolled over all personnel: dead captain and several soldiers wounded officials
and nearly all the servants of the pieces. Laurier was only as the impassive head - so his
comrades called him - and helped by the few gunners who remained standing, continued firing,
under a rain of iron and fire, to cover the withdrawal of a battalion.

"I have quoted twice in the order of the day - still reading Margarita -. I do not take in getting
the cross. It's all a brave man.

Who would have believed a few weeks ago !...»

She did not share this wonder. Living with Laurier had seen many times strength of character,
fearlessness by his gentle exterior masked. For somewhat warned instinct, making him fear the
wrath of the husband in the early days of his infidelity. He remembered the man's gesture
to surprise her one night out of the house in July. Age enthusiasts who kill. And yet, had not
attempted the least violence against it ... The memory of this respect
Margarita woke up in a feeling of gratitude.

Such Once he had loved like no other man.

His eyes, with a lust for comparison, were set in Desnoyers, admiring his kindness youth. The
image of Laurier, heavy and vulgar, his memory came as a consolation.

It was true the officer interviewed by her in the station to fire his brother did not seem to her former
husband.

But Margarita wanted to forget the lieutenant pale and had a sad look passed before his eyes,
to remember only the concerned industrial profits and incapable of understanding what she
called "the subtleties of a chic woman." Decidedly July was more alluring. No regrets about
her past: she did not repent.

And his selfish love him once again repeating the same exclamations:

- How lucky you are abroad! ... What a joy to see you free from the
dangers of war!

July always felt irritation at hearing this.

He came close to collapse with one hand mouth of her lover. Did he make fun of him? ... It was
an insult place apart from other men.

Meanwhile, she, with the illogicality of his daze, he insisted on talking about Laurier, commenting
their exploits.

- Do not want, I have not ever wanted. Do not frown. How can you compare
the poor you?

... But we must recognize that provides some interest in his new existence. I'm glad his exploits
as if they were an old friend, a visit to my family which he had not seen in a long time ... The
poor deserve a better fate, have found a woman who was me, a fellow at the level of ambition
... I tell you I feel sorry.

And the shame was so intense that his eyes moistened, waking up in the torture mistress jealousy.

From
these interviews came Desnoyers moody and gloomy.

- I suspect we're in a false position - said one morning to Argensola -, life is going to serna
increasingly painful. It is difficult to remain calm, following the very existence before,
in the midst of a people who are bat.

The partner felt the same. Also considered insufferable young alien existence Paris tossed in
this war.

- Should one go teaching roles at every moment for the police to be convinced that has not
found a deserter.

In a subway car had to explain the other day that was Spanish to some girls who were surprised
were not on the front ... One of them, after learning my nationality,
I simply asked why I volunteered ... Now they have invented a word:
"ambushed."

I'm sick of sight ironic that host throughout my youth, I hate to take me for a French "ambushed."

A
blast shook the impressionable Bohemian heroism. Since everyone was going to war, he I wanted
to do the same.

I felt no fear of death: the only thing he was terrified servitude military uniform, mechanical
obedience to trumpet the blind subordination to the heads. Fight for it offered no difficulties,
but freely or sending to others, because their reared character to everything that meant discipline.
Foreign groups Paris tried to organize each his legion of volunteers, and he also projected
the own: a battalion of Spanish and Latin American, reserving, of course, the presidency organizing
committee and then the commander of the body.

Had released advertisements in newspapers, place of registration, the study of the rue de la
Pompe. In ten days there were two volunteers: a clerk in the very cold summer, which required to be
an officer because he wore morning dress, and a bartender to the first Spanish-language words
stripped of his command refused to Argensola with the futile pretext of having been a soldier
in his youth, while the other was just a painter. Twenty Spanish battalions were initiated
at the same time with equal success in different parts of Paris. Each fan wanted to be boss the
other, with the individualistic pride and disgust to the discipline's own race. Finally, future
leaders, lack of soldiers, seeking to register as simple volunteers ... but in a French regiment.

-
I hope to see what makes the Garibaldi - Argensola said modestly
-. Maybe I'll go with them.

This made her name glorious warrior tolerable bondage. But then hesitated would anyway that
obey anyone in this body of volunteers, and he was rebellious to
a obedience that was not preceded by long discussions ... What to
do?

- It has changed life in half a month --- continued -.

We seem to have fallen on another planet: our old skills are meaningless.

Others go to the front rows, the most humble and obscure, which held
before the last term.

The man of refinement and complications spiritual has collapsed, who knows how many years ...
Now go to the surface as victor simple man of limited ideas, but firm, which knows how to obey.
We are no longer fashion.

Desnoyers nodded. That was: they were no longer fashionable. He could tell, he had known the
visibility and spend now as a stranger among the same people who admired him months earlier.

-
Your kingdom is over - Argensola said laughing -. Nothing good is being a good boy. I, with a uniform
and a cross on his chest, will now expire in a romantic rivalry.

The only official makes dream in times of peace to the ladies from the provinces. But we are at
war, and all woman has awakened the enthusiasm they felt their remote ancestral grandmothers
by the beast aggressive and strong ... Large ladies complicated desires for months with subtleties
psychological, military now admire the simplicity of the maid you are looking for the soldier line.
Uniform feel about the humble and servile enthusiasm of female animality inferior to the crests,
manes and feathers of their male fighters. Mind you, master! ... There to follow the new course
of time, or resign themselves to perish obscurely: the tango is dead.

And Desnoyers thought that, indeed, were two people on the margins of life. This had jumped,
changing the channel.

There was no place in the new existence for him poor painter of souls and for him, the hero
of a frivolous life, which had reached five to seven p.m. wins most envied by men.

III

Withdrawal

The war had extended one of its tentacles to the avenue Victor Hugo. It was a war deaf, in which
the enemy, soft, shapeless, gelatinous, seemed to escape from the hands to resume a little
further hostilities.

- I have stuck at home to Germany - said Marcelo Desnoyers.

Germany was Dona Elena, the wife of von Hartrott. Why had not taken his son, Professor of unbearable that
failure, he now felt like a spy?

... Why what sentimental whim had wanted to stand by his sister, missing the opportunity to return
to Berlin before the closing of the borders? ...

The presence of this woman was for him a source of regret and alarm. Fortunately, the servants,
the chauffeur, all the male servants were in the military. The two Chinese received a warrant
in a threatening tone. Very careful when talking to other French maids, nor the slightest allusion
to the nationality of the husband of Dona Elena and domicile family. Doña Elena was Argentina ...
But despite the silence of the girls, don Marcelo feared a withdrawal of exalted patriotism,
which was devoted to tireless fervor On the hunt for spies, and that
the sister of his wife saw confined in a concentration camp suspicion
of dealing with the enemy.

Mrs. von Hartrott corresponded poorly to these concerns. Instead of keeping a discreet silently
introduced discord in the house with their views.

During the first days of the war remained locked in her room, meeting with family only when
called to dinner. With pursed lips and staring sat at the table, pretending not to hear verbal
enthusiasm overflows Don Marcelo. This described the departure of troops, moving scenes in streets
and stations optimism commenting unable to question the first news of the war. Two things considered
beyond dispute.

The bayonet was the secret of the French and the Germans felt a thrill of terror to its luster,
slipping irretrievably. The gun 75 is was accredited as a unique jewel. Only his shots were
accurate. The enemy artillery He feels very sorry, because if you casually on target, their shells
were erupt ... In addition, the victorious French troops had entered in Alsace: as were his various
populations.

- Now is not like in 70 - said, waving the fork or napkin waving .--. The kicks are going to take
across the Rhine. A kick! ... That's right!

Chichi nodded enthusiastically, while Dona Elena raised her eyes as if in silent protest to someone
who was hidden in the ceiling, putting to witness so many mistakes and swearing.

Doña Luisa was going to look after the withdrawal of his room, believing
in need of comfort to live out of his house.

"The Romantic" worth it no longer silent about this sister I had always complied with their higher
education. And the poor lady was stunned by the story that he was making enormous forces of
Germany, with all their authority wife Germanic a great patriot and
mother a teacher almost famous.

The millions of men emerged to pour from his mouth, then thousands marched to the guns, mortars
monstrous huge as towers.

And over these immense forces of destruction, a man reportedly worth alone an army that knew
everything and could do anything, beautiful, smart and infallible as a god-emperor.

- The French do not know what they are facing continued --- Dona Elena
-. They're going to annihilate.

It is a matter of a couple of weeks. Before the end of August, the emperor has entered Paris.

Ms.
Desnoyers impressed by these prophecies could not hide his family. Chichi are indignant at
the gullibility of the mother and her aunt Germanism. A rousing Belize had taken over the former
'Peoncita. " Oh, if women could go to war! ... He saw a rider on a regiment of dragoons, charged
the enemy as other Amazons hermosotas arrogant like her. Then the skaters on their tastes predominated
ride, and wanted to be a hunter Alpine 'Blue Devil' of sliding over long skates, rifle in the
back and alpenstock in his right hand for the snowy slopes Vosges.

But the government despised women, and she could not get another entry in the war than to admire
the uniform of her boyfriend René Lacour, become a soldier. The son the senator offered a
nice appearance. Tall, blond, a little feminine delicacy reminiscent
to the dead mother, René was a "soldier of sugar" in view of his girlfriend.

Chichi experienced some pride to go out into the street next to the warrior, had found that
the uniform increased because of him.

But one disappointment was clouded by little and little joy. Senate Prince was but a private.
His illustrious father, for fear that the war cut off forever the dynasty of the Lacour, precious
to the state, he did add ancillary services to the military. Thus, Lacour (son) would not leave
Paris. But in such a situation, a soldier was equal to knead bread that cloaks or patching. Only going
to the war front, as a student at the Central School could, make him a lieutenant added to the
reserve artillery.

- How happy you stay in Paris! How I love you to be simple soldier! ...

And while Chichi said this, I thought with envy of her friends whose
boyfriends and brothers were officers.

They could go out into the street, escorted by a braid that attracted kepis the gaze of passers
and greetings from the lower.

Whenever Dona Luisa, terrified by the predictions of his sister, sought to communicate their
terror to the daughter, it stirred angry:

- Aunt Lies! ... As her husband is German, he sees everything like
your wishes.

Dad know more, the father of René is better aware of things.

We are going to great beat long run. What a pleasure to hit my uncle
in Berlin and to all my cousins, so pretentious!

...

- Shut up - wailed the mother -. Do not say nonsense. The war has made you crazy as your father.

The
good lady was shocked to hear the explosion of his wild desires whenever memory was emperor.
In peacetime, Chichi had admired something to this character "He's cute - he said - but with a
smile very ordinary." Now all the concentrated hatred in it. Women were crying because of him at this
hour! Mothers without children, women without husbands, children abandoned to poor people on
fire! ... Ah, poor man! ... Arose in his right hand the old knife "Peoncita", a silver-handled
dagger and cover chased gift grandfather, who was exhumed from the memories of his childhood,
left in a suitcase. The first German to be near her was sentenced to death. Doña Luisa was terrified
seeing brandishing the weapon in the mirror of her dresser. She did not want be trooper or
"Blue Devil." He was content to be left with a space closed against
the hateful monster.

In five minutes she would resolve global conflict.

- Defend, Boche! - Putting on guard shouted, as he had seen done in childhood laborers to stay.

And
with a knife from below upwards air threw the entrails Majestät. Then echoing in his brain
a acclamation huge sigh of millions of women relieved of the bloodiest nightmares thanks to her,
it was Judith, Carlota Corday, a summary of all heroic females killed by doing good. His fury
saving made him continue the imaginary dagger in his hand killing.

Second shot!: Crown Prince one hand and rolling his head on the other. A rain of knives!: All
general invincible speaking his aunt fled with their guts in their
hands, and to the tail of them, as fawning lackey also receiving its
part, Berlin's uncle ... Oh, if you submit opportunity to realize
your wishes!

- You're crazy - protested the mother -: crazy auction.

How can you say that a lady? ...

Elena, the fragments surprise these delusions of his niece, raised
his eyes to heaven, henceforth refrain from communicating their views,
which reserved for entire the mother.

The indignation of Don Marcelo took another form when his wife repeated the news his sister. All
lies! ... The war was going well.

In the eastern frontier, the French armies had advanced within annexed Alsace and Lorraine.

- But what about Belgium invaded? - Asked Dona Luisa -. What about
the poor Belgians?

Desnoyers replied indignantly:

- That is a betrayal of the Belgian ... And a betrayal among decent
people is worthless.

He said it in good faith, as if the war was a match where the traitor was disqualified and the
impossibility of continuing their felonies. Furthermore, the heroic resistance of Belgium inspired
him absurd illusions. The Belgians seemed destined to supernatural men the most stupendous feats
... And he had not given any attention to hitherto this people ...
For a few days in Liege saw a holy city with its walls was about to
crash all the power Germanic.

Falling Liege, his unshakeable faith has found a new foothold. Were Liège many inside. Could go
deeper into the Germans would then many managed to get out. The delivery
of Brussels did not produce anxiety. An open city! ... His surrender
was intended: thus better defend the Belgians in Antwerp. The progress
of Germans to the French border also caused him alarm. In vain his
sister, with a brevity malignant in the dining room was mentioning
the progress of the invasion, referred vaguely the newspapers. The
Germans were already at the border.

- So what? - Shouted Don Marcelo
-. Talk soon found. Joffre them to step out. Our armies were in the
East, on the site that corresponded to the true frontier at the door
of the house. But this is a traitor and coward friends that instead
of giving face comes from behind, jumping the walls of the corral,
like thieves ... You're welcome will his betrayal. The French are
in Belgium and settle accounts with the Germans. The crush, not to
again disturb the peace of the world. And to that damn subject stiff
whiskers will post it in a cage at the Place de la Concorde.

Chichi,
encouraged by parental claims, plunged to imagine a series of tortures
and vengeful scorn as a complement of such exposure.

What most irritated
Madame von Hartrott were allusions to the emperor. In the first days
of the war, his sister had caught her crying at cartoons in newspapers
and certain blades sold in the streets.

- A man so good ... such
a gentleman ... such a good parent! The fault is not nothing. They
are the enemies who have caused.

And his reverence for the powerful
did you consider the injuries against the admired character more strongly
than if they were directed to his own family.

One night, while in
the dining room, left her tragic silence. Several sarcasm directed
Desnoyers crowded against the hero tears in his eyes. This served
her tenderness to remember their children, who are undoubtedly in
the army of invasion.

His brother wanted the extermination of all
enemies. Let there be only one of those pointed helmet barbarians
who had just set fire to Louvain and other towns, shooting to helpless
civilians, women, elderly, children! ...

- You forget that I am a
mother - she moaned Mrs. Hartrott -. You forget that among those whose
extermination ask are my children.

And began to mourn. Desnoyers
saw suddenly the gap between himself and the woman lodged at home.
His indignation overcame family considerations ... Could mourn all
he wanted for his children: he was within his rights. But these children
were aggressors and made wrong willingly. He was only interested inspired
other mothers who lived quietly smiling in the Belgian population
had suddenly seen their children shot, run over her children, burning
their homes.

Elena cried louder, as if this description of horrors
meant a new insult for her.  Surely, rather than submit to the tender mercies of a Korean torturer, any prisoner,
however weak or timid, would arm himself with one of them and die fighting, or even put an
end to his own existence, rather than have his life wrung from him inch by inch and minute
by minute in agony indescribable!  At any rate it did not take Frobisher a moment to determine
that when the end should come he would take the long weapon used for the "thousand cuts" and,
standing in the middle of the chamber where he could have a clear sweep for the sword, fight
his enemies to the death.

He strode over to the corner and drew the weapon he had selected out of its scabbard.  It had
a long handle, permitting two hands to be employed, and the blade was made of very highly-tempered
steel, as stiff and springless as an English razor, and as keen.  It was about four feet in
length and quite two inches wide, and the steel at the back was fully a quarter of an inch
thick.  There was a very slight curve in the blade, and the point was sharply curved round,
similar to the points found on the old Japanese swords; and in the hands of a powerful man
like himself it would undoubtedly prove a very terrible weapon.  Indeed, it was so heavy that
Frobisher wondered how it could be possible with so ponderous a blade to carry out the particular
form of execution for which it was designed.  But it would serve his purpose admirably, the
sailor told himself; and he sheathed the weapon and placed it at the far end of the chamber,
where it might be ready to his hand if necessity arose for him to use it.

The next step in the examination of the cell was to get a glimpse, if possible, out of the
little window, high up in the wall, to learn something concerning the whereabouts of his prison
and how it was situated.  Then, in the somewhat improbable event of an opportunity offering
for escape, he would not be handicapped by ignorance with regard to his surroundings.

To this end he hunted about for something wherewith to construct a platform, and presently
managed to collect together a pile of instruments, pieces of ancient furniture, and odds and
ends of lumber which, piled together, enabled him, assisted by his great height, to bring his
eyes to the level of the bottom of the window; and having climbed up, using great care not
to upset the pile in so doing, Frobisher seized the iron grating protecting the window and,
thus supporting himself in position, looked out.

Narrow as was the window on the inside, the view which the young Englishman was able to obtain
from it was quite extensive, for the embrasure which formed the opening was splayed widely
outward on both sides, in a manner frequently seen in old English castles in the construction
of the "arrow slits" in the walls; and the first thing he noticed was that he had been correct
in his estimation of the thickness of the walls.  They were at least six feet thick, and there
was therefore no hope whatever of being able to break out through them.

The fort itself was situated on the right bank of the river; and, judging from the open country
in its neighbourhood, must be at some little distance from the town of Asan itself.  Indeed,
as Frobisher afterwards ascertained, the building was situated on a small peninsula of land
jutting out into Prince Jerome gulf, and was therefore nearly four miles distant from the town.
The window embraced a view of part of the gulf, including the entrance, and a strip of jungle-clad
country running right down to the water's edge; while beyond these two points the outlook was
restricted by the outer edges of the splay in which the window was built.  From the same cause,
also, Frobisher was unable to see the ground close enough to the wall to judge whether the
fort was surrounded by a moat or a dry ditch of any description, although from the general
appearance of things he surmised that it was.

By estimating the angle at which his line of sight was cut off by the outer edge of the sill,
he calculated that he must be confined in a room situated on the second story of the fort,
and that there would consequently be a considerable drop from the bottom of the window to the
ground, without taking into consideration the probable existence of a ditch of fifteen or twenty
feet deep running round the base of the walls.

In any case, even if the iron bars could by some means be removed, it did not appear as though
it would be possible for him to squeeze his big body through the opening, so the question of
the depth of the drop outside was hardly worth worrying about.  His one and only means of egress
seemed to be the door by which he had entered, and to that he now turned his attention, with
the view of ascertaining whether any hope lay in that direction.

As has been mentioned, the door was constructed of timber very much resembling oak, and its
inner surface was reinforced by stout iron straps some three or four inches wide, at least
half an inch thick, and extending across the whole width of the door.  The round heads of bolts
studded at intervals along the whole length of the straps indicated that similar iron bands
existed on the other side of the door, and that the straps, inside and outside--of which there
were no less than seven pairs--were connected together, thus clearly indicating the immense
strength of the door.  It was thus hopeless to think of cutting a way out through it; the only
manner in which it could be passed was by opening it in the usual manner.

Frobisher therefore set to work to examine the lock, to discover whether there existed any
possibility of picking it.  It was an old-fashioned piece of mechanism, and, luckily, the iron
case was on the inside of the door, the great keyhole being placed near the centre.  Now for
a piece of stout wire, the stouter the better!  The young Englishman proceeded at once to hunt
about among the various machines and instruments in the dim corners of the chamber in search
of what he required.  For some time he was unsuccessful, and he had reluctantly arrived at
the conclusion that the search must end in failure, when his eyes happened to fall upon the
very thing he needed.

Standing at the far end of the apartment, in that part of it enclosed by the circular portion
of wall, was a sinister-looking machine, and to the gearing of one of its handles was attached
a short piece of iron rod which he thought he might disengage without much difficulty.  Forthwith
he applied himself to the task, with such success that, half an hour later, he found himself
in possession of what he required.  True, it was somewhat stouter than it should have been
for his purpose, but this was one of those occasions upon which he found his exceptional strength
very useful, and after a few experiments he succeeded in bending it to the shape he wanted.

He was experimenting with the bent rod in the lock when, fortunately, his quick ear caught
the sound of footsteps hurrying down the stone-flagged corridor toward his cell.

Snatching the wire out of the lock, he hastily dropped it into the nearest available place
of concealment, and sauntered toward the opposite side of the chamber.  There would be no time,
he knew, to take down and redistribute the pile of articles he had used to enable him to look
out of the window, so he was compelled to leave them as they were, trusting that, in the dim
light, the visitor, whoever he might be, would not particularly notice the arrangement.  A
moment later there was a sound of keys rattling outside, the lock clicked loudly, and the door
opened and closed behind a man carrying a lamp, which he set down on the floor just inside
the room, after carefully locking the door again.

The thought instantly flashed through Frobisher's mind that perhaps after all there would be
no need for him to go on with the manufacture of his skeleton key; for was not the actual key
of the door in the room at that very moment?  True, it was in the possession of another man;
but unless he happened to possess fire-arms, it would be queer indeed if a desperate prisoner
could not overpower him, tie him up somehow, and secure the key to obtain his liberty.  Frobisher's
eyes glistened at the thought, and his muscles braced themselves for a spring.  But at the
critical moment the idea occurred to him that the other was in his power anyhow, and that he
could secure the key later on, just as well as now; and that, meanwhile, before he acted hastily,
it might be well to hear whether the fellow had anything to say.  Perhaps this was an official
come to set him at liberty, or perhaps--Well, he would wait a little, at all events, and see
what developments ensued.

Having locked the door and pocketed the key, the visitor picked up the lantern and advanced
into the room, holding the light high and glancing keenly round until his eyes fell upon Frobisher,
whereupon he gave a short grunt of satisfaction and hung the lantern on a convenient peg.

By the additional light thus afforded, the Englishman was able to examine his visitor more
closely, and to estimate his chances of success if things came to a rough-and-tumble fight
for possession of the key.

The stranger was tall, almost as tall as Frobisher himself, but not nearly so heavily built,
and appeared to be about fifty-five to sixty years of age, so that the young Englishman did
not anticipate any serious difficulty in mastering him.  He was very richly dressed in garments
of fine silk, elaborately decorated with embroidery, and wore round his neck a heavy gold chain,
the centre of which was studded with a single enormous ruby.  As a head-covering he wore a
round Chinese cap, which was ornamented by a single magnificent peacock's feather, fastened
to the cap by a brooch of solid gold set with another huge ruby.

The man's whole appearance was indeed imposing and magnificent in the extreme, and Frobisher
instantly guessed that he was in the presence of a very important official indeed.  This man,
he told himself, could surely not be a Korean.  No Korean ever attained to such a commanding
stature, no Korean had ever been known to display so haughty a bearing, so dominant a personality;
and as his eyes slowly travelled from the details of the man's costume to his face, the prisoner
recognised that his visitor was indeed not a Korean, but a Chinaman, and a Chinaman of the
highest grade, too--without doubt, a mandarin.  There was no mistaking the thin, ascetic, high-bred
face, the prominent cheek-bones, the almond-shaped eyes; and the long but scanty moustache
scarcely concealed a strong, resolute-looking mouth, the lips of which were, however, rather
too thin, lending an expression of cruelty and relentlessness of purpose which was anything
but reassuring to the prisoner.

For a few moments the two men stood gazing at one another, each taking the other's measure.
Then the Chinaman spoke, using excellent English.

"I am the Governor of this fortress of Asan," he began coldly, "and have just been informed
of your presence here.  You would have been brought before me on your arrival, but it chanced
to be the hour of my afternoon rest.  Who and what are you?"

"My name is Murray Frobisher," answered the Englishman, "and I was formerly a lieutenant in
the British Navy."

"Ha!" exclaimed the Governor.  "You say `formerly'.  I take it, then, that you are no longer
in your country's service, and that it is not known to your Government that you have turned
gun-runner in order to supply arms to rebels against their lawful sovereign?"

"You are correct in both suppositions," answered Frobisher.  "You tax me with gun-running;
and I plead guilty to the charge.  I certainly was bringing arms to the rebels, as you term
them; but my conscience is quite clear upon that point.  It is well known that the Korean Government
has been treating its subjects in a most outrageous manner; and if some of them with more pluck
than the rest have made up their minds to put an end to such tyranny, more power to them, say
I, and may somebody else be more fortunate than myself in providing them with weapons wherewith
to uphold their liberties and rid themselves of the rulers who are oppressing them."

The Chinaman looked at Frobisher for a moment, and then gave vent to a harsh, sneering laugh.

"Well spoken, my young friend!" he mocked.  "You have told me something that I wanted to know;
and now perhaps you will answer a few more questions.  I would very strongly advise you to
do so, since it may save you a good deal of--inconvenience, shall I say?"

"You may ask what you please," retorted Frobisher, "but I do not promise to answer."

"I shall ask the questions, nevertheless," said the Governor; "and if you will not speak now,
other means of obtaining replies can doubtless be found.  First of all, what ship brought those
arms; who was her captain; what quantity of arms and ammunition did the consignment consist
of--some have been lost in transit, I understand--and, finally, how many more shiploads are
being sent out here from your country?"

Frobisher laughed, but made no reply.

"Did you hear me?" demanded the Governor, and there was deadly menace in his voice.

"Quite distinctly," answered Frobisher coolly.  "But surely you cannot have already forgotten
that I gave you to understand clearly, scarcely a minute ago, that I will tell you nothing
whatever.  And when I say a thing, I mean it."

"Soh!" remarked the Chinaman.  "Well, you shall have to-night to think matters over; but if
you have not altered that stubborn mind of yours by morning, you shall make the acquaintance
of some of these little playthings"--indicating the various machines and instruments with a
delicate, long-taloned finger.  "There are some here which are probably new to you, but we,
in this place, understand their use well.  I will leave you this lantern, so that you may study
them carefully during the night, and decide what you prefer to do."

With an ironical bow, the Governor then turned toward the door, his fingers seeking the pocket
where he had placed the key.

This was the moment for which Frobisher had been waiting; and with a spring he hurled himself
at the retreating figure of the Governor.  But that individual was not to be caught so easily.
He must have glimpsed the prisoner's face out of the corner of his eye as he turned, for he
was round again in a moment, and, dodging the Englishman's furious leap, thrust a hand inside
his jacket, and before Frobisher could get to grips with him, he found himself confronted with
the muzzle of a heavy revolver, pointing straight at him, the Governor's forefinger already
crooked round and pressing the trigger.

"Not this time, my friend," smiled the Governor sardonically.  "One step farther, and I shoot
to wound--painfully.  Do you want an immediate taste of what is in store for you to-morrow,
or--" And, leaving the sentence unfinished, the Chinaman slowly backed to the door, leaving
Frobisher glowering helplessly in the middle of the room.

With his back against the door and the pistol still levelled, the Governor felt behind him,
inserted the key, and turned the lock.  Then, with one swift movement he was outside; the door
slammed, the key grated, and the prisoner was alone once more.

"Well," he murmured, half-amused, despite his anger and disappointment, "the rascal was too
smart for me that time.  But,"--here he lifted the executioner's sword from its place in the
corner--"things will be a little different to-morrow, if that man is foolish enough to trust
himself here again alone."

Frobisher waited until the sound of his visitor's footsteps had died away along the corridor,
and then, congratulating himself upon the fact that that worthy had left the light behind him,
re-possessed himself of his piece of iron rod, and with the assistance of the lantern set to
work upon the lock again, in the hope that he might be able to complete his skeleton key and
let himself out before the Governor returned to carry out his threat.  But this was a more
difficult matter than he had anticipated; and after about two hours of ineffective tinkering
he was compelled to acknowledge himself defeated.

With a bitter objurgation he flung the useless and twisted rod into a corner, and, not being
able to find anything else that would serve his purpose, made up his mind that he would have
to await developments, and rely upon his own strength of arm to get himself out whenever the
Governor or somebody else should visit the cell.  Meanwhile, if he were to be in good form
for a possibly strenuous morrow, it was necessary that he should sleep, seeing that nobody
had thought it worth while to provide him with any food; so, unsheathing the sword, with the
help of which he proposed to effect his deliverance, he flung himself down at the far end of
the chamber, laying the weapon beside him, and had scarcely touched the floor before he was
fast asleep.  He had been more worn out and weary than he had at all suspected.

It seemed as though he had just closed his eyes, when he was awakened by a thundering crash
of sound, apparently close at hand.  The chamber in which he was confined quivered perceptibly
with the shock; while, right upon the heels of the concussion, came the noise of a distant
explosion.

"A heavy gun, by Jingo!" ejaculated Frobisher, springing to his feet; "and whoever fired it
is using this place as a target!  That shot must have struck close outside here.  What is in
the wind now, I wonder? Anyway, if they are attacking this fort, they must, in a certain way,
be friends of mine, for they are certainly the enemies of my enemies within the walls.  Pound
away, boys!" he exclaimed cheerfully, apostrophising the unseen gunners; "pound away!  If you
don't kill me first, you may perhaps make an exit for me through that wall."

At that moment he heard the sound of voices raised in alarm, the shouting of orders, and all
the indications of a suddenly-awakened and thoroughly-alarmed garrison.  Men were rushing about
here and there, the rattle of arms sounded distantly through the iron-bound door; and presently,
from the battlements, apparently directly over his head, there boomed forth the crash of the
Korean garrison's answering gun, followed almost immediately afterwards by still another tremendous
shock, accompanied by the rumble and rattle of falling masonry as another shot from the attacking
force struck full upon the fortress wall, this time seemingly just above him. The Countess was going to take up her house in his car. Then, from
the house of the Countess to the Don Braulio had a few steps to go. Raided and the difficulties
it would have been rude not to accept the invitation.

Don Braulio thus accepted in the company of his wife and Ines, the
four in the same Landau open that night was an intimate gathering
to the daily running of the Countess of San Teódulo.

X

In general, no gathering or meeting for fun where no dancing or to play cards. Without sitting
for the elderly and no polkas and waltzes for the young, all usually bored. Is admirable, therefore,
a gathering, like our Condesa, where only had fun chatting with people.

The woman who manages to have a chat and can boast have put a pike in Flanders. Know how many
of these businesses will be recognized worldly in women who preside over such gatherings uncommon
gifts of understanding.

Other singular virtues shone also in Rosita. It was so good as a bad friend for the enemy. Her
husband wanted, cared for him and petted him as the most faithful and consort lover. This had
not prevented it had estimated after and loved and otherwise other shades and hues of honey.

Women
usually do not understand that there is only one baby, giving full someone or distributed
in this way or the other. Rosita was not. Rosita felt understood and various affections, not destroying
each other and are harmonized nicely. The Count of San Teodulo loved him in a way, his poet wanted another,
and these feelings, own and exclusive of women arose others that seemed to start the fund
essential spirit where there is no difference of woman and man of principle neutral, before you
purchase determination sexual. I mean that Rosita loved many of his commentators to a friend
similar to what a man can feel for another man, with a sweetness
most ineffable her as a woman, and even pretty woman, manages to put
into this friendship, completely oblivious all feel love.

The first of these friends was the Comte de Rosita Alhedín. Between Rosita and the Count had not
secrets. Everything is trusted. The Earl looked at her friend consolation for their troubles and
tips for your difficulties. Rosita Condesito admired talent: we laughed all jokes, was that
no one was more discreet than he, nor her poet and her husband were
worth Pitoche next to Conde, and he had made any sacrifice Rosita.

Never, however, and the Count had thought of love to Rosita and love it in the count.

So poetic relations based on mutual esteem, to Rosita was Alhedín Count as an oracle, especially
when it came to science that we dare to call Aesthetics social, that
is, to qualify people, and actions and things, stylish, of distinguished
and beautiful.  And when this cloud had cleared away, he saw that one of the besiegers' guns had been
temporarily put clean out of action, for the right wheel was blown completely away, and the
gun itself was lying on its side, half-buried in the sand; while, as for the crew who had been
working it, so far as he could ascertain they had been blown completely out of existence, for
there was no visible sign of them.

That high explosive shell had obviously not come from the fort; where, then, had it come from? Want to share with me? Will you
help me to chair my gathering?

- I do not know if Braulio willing and able ...

- How not to love?

It seems affable, cheerful, good sir, and discreet. And recognize that their Women should
not always be stuck at home. When married with a child like you would
by all this.

No shock will take him.

- Yes ... it is true ...-- Beatriz said - but Braulio has compelling reasons. Why I feel ashamed
to say to you? We are poor ... How do you spend on clothes? ...

- And why the costumes? In my house ... We confidently ... You can go as you ... now, less luxurious
yet ... and until the work can take you there ... You'll see how you get distracted there at
night. Your sister will be distracted too, because they provided chickens home their age and
will know more when she goes. As for your husband ... is not a requirement indispensable to accompany
you always. That would be ridiculous for several reasons, because it would suspect he was a zealous
suspicious, which would be in contempt of yours, or because it would presume that was a man incapable
bare, he had no business in what used, but in Finally, even when
your husband was often at my house, I am certain that, far from weigh
is happy.

There are quite a few subjects of their position.

Would be released, win friends and talk policy, finance, science, everything, looking so much
to say that you know ... and until the present, that is in peace and without getting angry, it has
not helped. You confess it ... you are not very lucid.

- We are pleased ... and do not want more.

- That is a virtue ... but sterile.

When no goal is not reached. It must suck all ... For you see my
husband ... And I'll introduce you ... Not worth the twentieth part
of your Don Braulio.

And yet ... how do you know wits!

... It is a gyrfalcon ... I speak to you from the heart in hand.

It is necessary that we remove your husband of limbo in which they
live.

It has elements ... Why not to use them? To a philosopher, contempt of the world and its vain
pomp, would have done better not to marry a bud like you.

- What? I loved her so much!

- Too bad you did not love you out! Who does not instill love?

You, however, grateful ...

- Not just grateful ... love too ...

- So, have you loved a lot?

- And I love him still.

- His great talent seduced you: two reasons
to use it in making you happy, so that vague musings stop and see
what matters. I do not know what a writer has compared acute speculative
philosopher with a mule that turns a wheel, attached to it by the
devil metaphysics, drawing water not drinking and not eating the abundant
grass and fresh vegetable that everywhere around you. Well, even worse
when the philosopher or the mule, following the mischievous comparison,
has a partner and rope leads, not left to graze either.

- My duty
and my taste is to follow my husband wherever he goes, so take me
to a barren desert as a land of promise. For that, I do not think
that is so deep in futile dreams, that ignores the reality of life.

-
Best case. I'm glad. Without flattery, I will be very nice your husband.
It has good looks. Is known to be bird counts. The only thing that
should be reformed is the hat and the peaks the collar. Are enormous.
Why not make the cut that a bit?

- It's a whim.  Knowing as he did the terms of the Tien-tsin convention of 1884 between
China and Japan, the words "international complications" at once suggested themselves to Frobisher's
mind, and, despite the awkwardness of his own position, he could not help rubbing his hands
gleefully. Matters were rapidly developing; and if he could but escape from his present unpleasant
predicament there might be an excellent chance for him to see active service again, either
in the Chinese or the Japanese Navy--he cared very little which--for that was what things would
evidently come to, sooner or later.  Japan was herself too much interested in Korea to permit
China to play out her own game there alone.

Frobisher had little leisure, however, for the contemplation of possible diplomatic action
on the part of the Chinese or Japanese, for he had now other things to engage his attention.
To his astonishment, as he watched, he saw that the ship which had just steamed into view was
not alone; she was followed, close astern, by another cruiser of her own size and class, also
firing heavily with her broadside batteries, and also flying the Chinese flag.  A third and
fourth vessel--gunboats these--followed in her wake; and, bringing up the rear, there were
three hired transports which appeared to be crowded with men.

So this was no chance appearance of a single cruiser at a critical moment; it was evidently
part of a preconcerted scheme--some arrangement previously made between Korea and China whereby
the latter country was to lend her assistance for the crushing of the rebellion, a task which
the Korean Government had apparently decided to be beyond its capabilities.

The Chinese squadron had been steaming exceedingly slowly when it had first come into view,
and Frobisher could now see, from the flash of white water under the ships' sterns, that their
engines were being sent astern; and a few seconds later the entire fleet came to an anchor,
their cables flying out through the hawse-pipes with a roar which was plainly audible at the
fort.  The four men-of-war anchored stem and stern, broadside-on to the shore, while the three
transports took up their berths about half a mile farther seaward, the ships themselves being
screened from the rebel fire by the steel hulls of the men-of-war.

Fully recovered now from their first surprise, the rebels resumed their cannonade most pluckily,
two of the field-pieces being directed against the fleet, while the remaining four retained
their original position, and poured a well-directed and concentrated fire on the fort.  It
was apparently the intention of the rebel commander to reduce and take possession of the fort,
if he could, before the Chinese troops should be enabled to effect a landing, so that he might
have some shelter behind which to hold out until he could summon more rebel troops to his aid.

But the commandant of the garrison had evidently no intention of letting the fort slip through
his fingers, now that assistance was so close at hand; and from what Frobisher had already
seen of him, he felt sure that his visitor of yesterday was the exact type of man who would
blow the building into the air, with himself and all that it contained, rather than surrender,
even to an overwhelming force.  The guns from the battlements crashed out anew, and although
their fire was not nearly so accurate as that from the rebel pieces, yet, in the long run,
weight of metal was bound to tell; and, while the shot was solid and had not therefore the
devastating effect of the percussion shell fired from the war-ships, it began to be apparent
that some of them at least were getting home, and that their effect was already becoming very
galling to the rebels. 

Both were on their blanket, dark silk dresses, nothing garish and dissonant color or ornaments,
with an innate elegance that is exuded as a perfume of the same simplicity and modesty of
their dress.

Don Braulio was in his, though clean, fed neglected. His coat and hat were fashion the way for
eight or ten years.

His black tie was a little shabby, and neck shirt, straight and on a large, nearly reached
his ears.

Beatriz half had fought with her husband to make him carry lower collars
and buy new hat and new coat.

I could not get. "What?" - Said Don Braulio -. Mr. hobbies more. So when I was young, and
I will not change.

So I fell in love, so I wanted to, so you married me. "

Doña Beatriz did not know what to say after all, was silent, and let
go as you don Braulio wanted.

That night, therefore, made no comment on the suit of Mr. Braulio, but not left to tie it graceful
loop of the tie, or stroking her hair, put ointment and combing the best she could.

The three took a stroller with mustache and went to the Gardens. Along the way, said Don Braulio:

-
I think, and I'm sorry that you are going to annoy. We have no friends. Do not even have known.
In the midst of the hubbub going to be like a desert. Who is to tell? Who is to approach us?

- Men, do not worry for so little - answered Dona Beatriz -.

If you do not know anybody, if no one speaks, well that neither you
nor I know yet of memory.

Talk, we tell new things, we shall the gathering of the three, we'll hear the music and cool.

- To take the air - said Don Braulio - the same is to go there than the Prado.

- And still save money for the tickets - Beatriz said.
Ines was silent, and left to continue the dialogue between husband
and wife.

- I do not mean expenditure poverty, Beatriz. You know
that I'm not mean, though I am poor.

- I know. I suspect not think
it hurts to spend money on gifts. I say no irony. I say this only
to realize that, view things as you see them, is silly go to the Gardens,
but I, and Agnes certainly more than I see them through another prism.
We like to see people, but not repaired by us. The animation, joy,
entertainment Luxury recreate us.

The field-piece which had previously been put out of action was now struck a second time by
a fragment of flying shell, and collapsed once more on to the sand; and so fierce was the rifle
and shell fire that was now being directed upon the little band of gunners that, although they
made the most valiant and desperate efforts to repair the damage, they were driven away from
the spot time after time, and were at last compelled to abandon their efforts.  Then a second
field-piece was blown completely off its carriage by one of the solid shot from the fort, and
a few seconds afterwards a third gun was dismounted and its crew shattered to pieces by a shell
from one of the Chinese gunboats.

Stubbornly, however, the rebels still clung to their position, and, again swinging round the
two pieces with which they had been playing on the ships, they resumed the bombardment of the
fort, in the hope of battering in a breach through which the place might be carried by storm,
or compelling its surrender before the approaching reinforcements could arrive from the fleet.

So absorbed was Frobisher in the little drama that was being enacted before his eyes that,
even when the muzzles of the rebel guns were trained on what appeared to be the very window
out of which he was peeping, the idea never once occurred to him that he was in a position
of considerable danger, and that he would be well advised to climb down; so that it was not
until he saw the flashes of flame leap from the pieces as they were all fired simultaneously
that he realised the full extent of his temerity.

Then, even as he flung himself backward off the support on which he was standing, there came
a terrific concussion, followed by a rumbling roar as an avalanche of stone went crashing to
the ground below; while the very building itself, massive as it was, quaked as though the whole
edifice were on the point of crumbling to pieces. 

And I had to make an effort to remember the dignity of their years, not to seek to Argensola
to submit to the fugitive, whose presence glimpsed in the inner rooms. They were perhaps friends
of his son, were a part of his past, and this was enough to believe in these great qualities that
made them interesting.

These surprises, with their concerns, they finally get the painter lamented a bit of their new friendship.
Also bothered him the invitation to eat continuously formulated the old. Was very good, but
too boring, the table of Desnoyers. The father and mother spoke only absentee. Chichi just
paying attention to friends his brother. He fixed thought the war was concerned about the operation
of the mail, making anti-government protests when several days passed without receiving letter
Lieutenant Lacour.

Argensola excused himself on various pretexts to continue eating in
the avenue Victor Hugo.

Le happy to go to the restaurants more flights with his female entourage.

The old accepted the negative with a gesture of love who is resigned.

- Have not today? ...

To compensate for such absences, leaving the following day to study with great anticipation.

Represented for him an exquisite pleasure to let slip the time sitting
on a couch still seemed to hold the imprint of the body of Julio,
seeing those canvases covered colors for your brush, caressed by the
warmth of a stove that was snoring softly in the silence deeper, monastery.

It was a pleasant retreat, full of memories, amid the drab Paris and saddened by the war, which
was not friends, we all need to think in their own concerns.

The pleasures of the past had lost all charm. The Hotel Drouot no longer tempted. It were auctioned
at the time the assets of the Germans in France, seized by the government. It was as a response
to the trip had forced castle furniture Villeblanche taking the path of Berlin. In vain the riders
spoke little public who attended the auction. Did not feel the attraction of these extraordinary
times. Why do more shopping? ... What was so useless object? When thinking about the existence hard
worn million men in the open, I attacked an ascetic life wishes. Had begun to hate the ostentatious
splendor of his house in the avenue Victor Hugo. Remembered not worth the destruction of the castle.
I felt an irresistible when their hobbies laziness tried to push,
as in other times, purchases constant.

No, maybe he was there ... And there was always the study of July.

Argensola worked in the presence of Don Marcelo. I knew that old people abhorred inactive, and had
undertaken several works, feeling the contagion of this angle will to the action. Desnoyers noted
with interest the brush strokes and accepted all the explanations the portrait of souls. He was
in favor of the ancients in their shop, had only acquired works by
dead artists, but it was enough to know that Jules thought as his
friend, to support humbly all theories of it.

The artist's hard work was another. A few minutes later he preferred to speak with the old, sitting
on the same couch.

The first topic of conversation was absent. Repeated fragments of the letters had received, talked
about the past with subtle allusions. The painter depicted the life of Julius before the war as a
life dedicated entirely to the concerns of art.

The father was aware of the inaccuracy of such words, but appreciated as a big lie token of friendship.
Argensola was a good companion, discreet, never to abandon its greatest verbal, had alluded
to Madame Laurier.

In those days, worried about the old memories of it. Had met in the street giving his arm to her
husband, who was now recovered from his wounds. The illustrious Lacour had happy marriage reconciliation.
The engineer had only lost one eye.

Now was in charge of his factory requisitioned by the government for making bombs. Was captain
and wore two medals. Senator certainly did not know how it was done an unexpected reconciliation.
I had seen them arrive a day to his home together, looking with tenderness,
completely forgotten the past.

- Who remembers things before the
war? - Had said the character -.

They and his friends have forgotten all about the divorce. We all live a new life ... I think the two
are now happier than before.

This happiness I had sensed Desnoyers to see them. And the man of strong moral values, which
anathematized the year before your child's behavior with Laurier,
holding for the most harmful of the skulls, felt some vexation at
the sight Marguerite glued to her husband, speaking with love interest.

It seemed an act of ingratitude is happiness in marriage. A woman who had influenced both in the
life of Julio! ... So you can forget the love? ...

The two had gone as if he knew. Perhaps the captain was not clear Laurier; but she had looked
at her candid eyes, looking back abruptly to avoid your greeting
... The old man grieved at such indifference, not by him but on the
other.

Poor Julio! ... The inflexible sir, full mental immorality, lamented this oversight as something
monstrous.

The war was another subject of conversation during the evenings spent in the study. Argensola no
longer had his pockets full of paper, as at the beginning of hostilities. A quiet and serene
resignation had happened to the excitement the first time, when people
extraordinary and wonderful interventions expected.

All the newspapers said the same. He had only to read the official statement, and this document wise
to wait without impatience, feeling that, more or less say the same as above.

The fever of the first months with their hopes and optimism, now seemed somewhat unrealistic. Those who
were not in the war had gradually become habitual occupations. The existence resumed its regular
pace. "We must live," people said. And the need to continue thinking life filled with immediate
demands. Those with individuals The army armed remembered them, but their occupations muffled violence
of memory, running to accept the absence, as something that was going to be special normal. At first,
the war cut the dream, the food was inedible, bitter pleasure, giving it a funereal pallor. Everyone
was talking about the same. Now, slowly opened the theater circulating money, people laughed,
talked about the great calamity, but only to certain hours, as something
that was going to be long, lengthy, and demanding with inevitable
fatalism great resignation.

- Humankind can easily get used to misfortune
- Argensola said - as long as misfortune is long ... That is our strength,
which is why we live.

Don Marcelo would not accept his resignation. The war was going to be shorter than you imagined
all. His enthusiasm will immediately set a term: within three months in the spring next. And
if peace was not in the spring, would be in the summer.

A new participant took part in conversations. Desnoyers knew the neighboring Russian, Argensola
speaking to him.

Also this weird character had treated his son, and this was enough Tchernoff inspire you to
great interest.

In normal times, he was kept at a distance. The millionaire was in favor of order. Detested the
revolutionaries, with the instinctive fear of all the rich who have created his fortune and remember
the modesty of its origins. Tchernoff socialism and nationality would have necessarily resulted in
his mind a series of horrifying images, pumps, stabbing, just by hanging atonement, sent to Siberia.
No, it was a friend recommended ... But now Don Marcelo felt a profound disorder in the appreciation
of others' ideas. He had seen so much! ... The procedures terrifying invasion, lack of scruples
German heads, the ease with which the ships sunk submarines peaceful cast full of helpless passengers,
the exploits of the airmen, that two thousand feet throwing bombs on open towns, destroying women
and children, made him remember as unimportant events of revolutionary
terrorism attacks that caused years before outrage.

- And to think
- he said - that we are angry, as if the world were to fall apart,
because someone threw a bomb at a character!

These exalted offered to him a quality that dimmed his crimes. Victims died their own acts or
gave themselves knowing what would be his punishment. Sacrificed without seeking Output: rarely
had saved using the precautions of impunity. While The terrorist war! ...

With the violence of its urgent nature, the old effected a complete reversal of values.

- The real anarchists are now at the top - he said with an ironic laugh -. All that We were frightened
by some unhappy ... In a second killing the most innocent of our
time the other in thirty years.

The sweetness of Tchernoff, original ideas, and inconsistencies of thinker accustomed to reflection
jump to the word without any preparation, eventually seduce Don Marcelo. All doubts of consulting
with him. His admiration made him overlook the provenance of certain
bottles that sometimes Argensola regaled his neighbor.

Gladly accepted Tchernoff that consume these memories of the time when he lived fighting with your
child.

After tasting the wine of the avenue Victor Hugo, was a loquacious visionary Russian similar to that
of the night raised the fantastic ride of the four apocalyptic horsemen.

What I admired most was the ease Desnoyers putting things, fixing them through image. The Battle
of the Marne to the fighting that followed, and the race of both armies towards the sea were to
him made easy explanation ... If the French had not been tired after his triumph at the Marne!
...

--... But human forces - continued Tchernoff - are limited, and French, with all enthusiasm, is a
man like others. First, very rapid progress in the North East to deal with the invasion of
Belgium and then the fighting, and then withdrawal fast to avoid being enveloped, and finally
a battle of seven days and all this in a period just three weeks ... In the moment of triumph to
the victors legs were missing for go ahead and cavalry failed to
pursue the fugitives.

The beasts were more exhausted even men. To be harassed with little tenacity, which retreated,
falling fatigue, lay down and dug the earth, creating a shelter. The French also went to bed,
scratching the ground to keep the recovered ... And thus began the
war trenches.

Then, every line, in an attempt to envelop the enemy line had been
extending towards North West, and successive stretching was the race
to the sea each other, forming the largest battlefront was known in
history.

When Don Marcelo, in his enthusiastic optimism, announcing the termination of war next spring ... for
the summer, always within four months at the most, Russian shook his head.

- This will be long ... long. It's a new war, the true modern war. The Germans initiated hostilities
to the old style, as if they had not seen anything after 1870: outflanking war, battles in the open,
as he could devise Moltke imitating Napoleon. Wished to end soon and they were sure of victory.
What make use of new procedures? ... But what of the Marne twisted his plans were aggressors
to go on the defensive, and then used all that his staff had learned in Japanese and Russian campaigns,
beginning of trench warfare, the fight underground that is logical,
for the scope and quantity of fire of modern weapons.

The conquest a mile of land now accounts for more than a century
ago the assault of a fortress stone ... Neither are going to move
in a long time.

Maybe not ever move permanently.

This is going to be long and boring, like fights between athletes of balanced forces.

- But have you ever have an end - said Desnoyers.

- Certainly, but who knows when? ... And how will each other when it's over? ...

He believed in a quick end when people least expect it, with the fatigue
of one of the two wrestlers, carefully concealed until the last minute.

-
Germany will be defeated - he said with firm conviction -.

I do not know when or how, but fall logically. His coup failed him in September, not undoing to
enter Paris enemy.

All wins from their deck then threw them on the table. She did not win and continues to prolong
the game because it has many letters, and extend long time yet ... But what we could do at first,
never will.

To Tchernoff final defeat did not mean the destruction of Germany or the annihilation the German
people.

- Me, I am outraged - continued - the excessive patriotism. Listening to some people who made
plans for the final elimination of Germany, I seem to be listening to the Pangerman Berlin when
the continents divided.

Then clarified its opinion.

- We must defeat the Empire, for the peace of the world: eliminate the vast war machine which disturbs
the peace of nations ... Since 1870 all live badly.

For forty and four years have averted the danger, but in all this time which of anguish! ...

What
most irritated Tchernoff was born immoral teaching of this situation and had ended up taking
over the world: the glorification of force, the sanctification of success the triumph of materialism,
respect for the fait accompli, the mockery of the noblest sentiments, as if they were simple and
ridiculous sound bites, the disruption of moral values, a philosophy of bandits pretending
to be the last word of progress and was not more than back to despotism, violence, barbarism
of earlier epochs of history.

He wanted the removal of the representatives of this trend, but not this called for the extermination
the German people.

- This town has great merits confused with poor conditions, which are inherited from a barbaric
past too close. Has the instinct of the organization and work, and can provide good service
to humanity ... However, prior to administering a Shower: Shower failure. The Germans are mad
with pride, and his madness is dangerous for the world. When they are gone poisoned with illusions
of hegemony world when misfortune has cooled their imagination and be content with being a group
Human neither superior nor inferior to others, form a tolerant people, useful ... and who knows
if even sympathetic.

There was at the present time to Tchernoff most dangerous people.

His political organization made it an educated warrior horde kicked and subjected to continuous humiliation
to override the will, which always refuses to discipline.

- It is a nation where all are beaten and they want to give them to the one below. The kick releasing
the emperor is transmitted back to back to the last strata.

The shock start school and continue in the barracks as part of education. Learning the Crown
Prince of Prussia was always receive slaps and sticks to his father
the king.

The Kaiser stick to their offspring, the officer to his soldiers, father to his children and
the woman, the teacher to the students, and when the top can not
shock, which imposes upon it under the torment of moral outrage.

So they left their ordinary life, taking up arms to fall into another group human, were relentless
ferocity.

- Each one of them - continued Russian - brings back under a deposit of kicks received and want
to turn giving comfort to those unfortunate people who put the war under his domination. The
village of "gentlemen" as he calls himself, wants to be ... but outside
their home.

Within it is the least known human dignity. So feel so strongly the desire to spread throughout
the world, from servant to master.

Suddenly, Don Marcelo frequently stopped going to the studio.

Now looking to his friend Senator. A promise he had upset his quiet resignation.

The character was sad since the heir to the glories of his family
had gone to war, breaking the protective net of recommendations that
had been wrapped.

One night, eating at home Desnoyers, said one idea
that made it shudder. "Is not would like to see his son was handling
?...» Senator authorization Headquarters for the front. Needed to
see to René. Belonged to the same corps that July; were perhaps slightly
distant places, but a car can take many detours before reach the end
of your trip.

No need to say more. Desnoyers suddenly felt a strong
desire to see his son. Wearing many months have to be content with
reading his letters and the contemplation of a photograph taken by
a comrade ...

Since then laid siege to Lacour as if one of his constituents
eager for employment. Le visited in the morning at home, inviting
him to dinner every night, went to look for evening in the halls of
Luxembourg. Before the first word of greeting, his eyes formulated
always the same question ... "When get the permit?"

The great man
lamented the indifference of the military against the civilian component.
Always parliamentarism had been enemies.

- In addition, Joffre shown
intractable.  Next he picked up the coil
of rope and bound the prostrate man.

Hardly had he accomplished this business when he thought he detected the sounds of voices--that
of the Governor and some other--and footsteps approaching outside his prison door.  The next
instant he was sure of it.  The voice of the stranger was raised as though in anger or altercation,
while that of the Governor was pitched lower, in tones that seemed to convey the idea of expostulation,
entreaty, and apology.

There seemed to be a further altercation outside, the stranger speaking in an angry, authoritative
voice; then the lock grated harshly as a key was inserted and turned, the door flew open, and
a man entered, dressed in Chinese naval uniform, or what passed for uniform in those days,
closely followed by the Governor, whose countenance betrayed a curious mingling of ferocity,
apprehension, and anger.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

FROBISHER'S COMMISSION.

The Chinese naval officer--who, Frobisher decided, was undoubtedly a man of high rank and very
considerable distinction--looked keenly about him for several minutes, evidently taking in
and forming his own opinion as to the details of the scene which met his gaze.  Then he stared
long and appraisingly at the young Englishman, who thought he detected the ghost of a smile
hovering about the new-comer's mouth as he again glanced at the forms of the two assistants.
Turning to the Governor, the navy-man sharply addressed what seemed to be a series of questions
to him.  The Governor replied, making what Frobisher guessed to be a long and elaborate explanation.
Finally, with a gesture expressive of anger and impatience, excited apparently by the unsatisfactory
character of the Governor's explanation, the stranger cut him short and turned to Frobisher.

"Sir," he exclaimed, touching his cap as he stepped forward, and speaking almost as excellent
English as the Governor's own, "permit me to introduce myself.  I am Admiral Wong-lih, of the
Imperial Chinese Navy; and I deeply regret that it should have become my duty to offer apologies,
on behalf of my illustrious master, to an Englishman who has been unfortunate enough to undergo
such treatment as you have suffered at the hands of a countryman of mine."  Here he turned
and glowered at the Governor, who bowed deeply, probably to hide the chagrin and annoyance
that showed themselves only too plainly in his yellow face.

"My name," returned the Englishman, "is Murray Frobisher; and I was, some time ago, a lieutenant
in the British Navy.  I came out here for the purpose of delivering a cargo of arms and ammunition
to the Korean rebels at a certain Korean town.  Owing to the treachery of a native in my employ,
I was betrayed into the hands of the Korean regular troops, and brought here a prisoner.  The
situation in which you found me was the result of his Excellency's desire to obtain further
information respecting the rebels and their arrangements.  Of such information, I may tell
you, sir, I possess very little, and under any circumstances I should not have felt myself
at liberty to divulge even that little.  I should like to add that I by no means range myself
on the side of the rebels, for, as a matter of fact, I know too little of the circumstances
of the case to judge between them and the Government, although, from what I have already seen,
my sympathies, such as they are, are on the side of the insurgents.  I am in no way connected
with the insurgent forces; and when captured I was merely acting the part of agent of another
private individual in convoying that caravan across country. But of course, when an attempt
was made to take that property out of my hands, I had no option but to try to defend it.  That,
sir, is the full truth of the matter; and I desire to place myself under your protection as
an officer of the Chinese Navy, that I may not again be subjected to the kind of treatment
which I have suffered since my arrival here."

"I thank you," returned the officer, "for your voluntary explanation with regard to your connection
with the rebel forces; which explanation, I may mention, differs very considerably from the
statement made to me by his Excellency here.  At the time that that statement was made it struck
me as being somewhat faulty, and therefore I determined to investigate matters for myself--a
course which I am now very glad I adopted.  I was informed by his Excellency, when I enquired
whether any prisoners were confined here, that there was but one, yourself; and that you were
merely undergoing temporary imprisonment as a result of your being captured in arms, so to
speak, against the Korean Government; and it was not until I entered this chamber and saw--what
I saw--that I dreamed of the occurrence of any such atrocity as has been practised on you.
Again I offer you my most heartfelt apologies."

"Which I most cordially accept, in the spirit in which they are offered," said Frobisher, extending
his hand, which Wong-lih grasped and pressed in a friendly fashion.

Then, turning to the Governor, the admiral icily remarked, still in English:

"I will detain you no longer, your Excellency.  I desire to have a little private conversation
with this gentleman; and when I require your attendance again I will send for you.  Pray leave us."

"Your Highness's commands shall be obeyed," replied the Governor, bowing; and with a sullen
scowl on his brow the man turned and left the room, giving the impression that he would gladly
have slammed the door behind him, had he dared.

"Highness!" thought Frobisher to himself, during the short pause that ensued.  "I seem to be
suddenly getting among very important personages--with a big `P', too.  This particular prince
must be quite a celebrity in his own country, I should judge, by his behaviour.  The Governor
seemed to be a man of considerable importance, I thought; but even he has to curl up and eat
humble pie when this man speaks to him."

"Now, Mr Frobisher," continued the admiral, "I trust that you will excuse my claiming your
attention for a few minutes longer, for I should like to have a little conversation with you,
and this appears to be the only room in the fortress where we can talk without being overheard.
You informed me, just now, that you are an ex-naval officer.  Would you object to informing
me of the reason why you are no longer in the Service?"

"Not at all," replied Frobisher.  And thereupon he proceeded to give the admiral a circumstantial
account of the accident which led to his dismissal from the Navy.  When Frobisher had finished
his recital, Wong-lih pulled his long moustache thoughtfully for a few moments without speaking;
then he said:

"Well, Mr Frobisher, I am bound to admit that I think you have been very harshly treated. 
I do not consider that the fault lay with you at all, but with the men who ought to have been
on the look-out aboard the steamer which ran you down.  There was never any question, I presume,
as to your efficiency as a seaman?"

Frobisher flushed slightly.  "None whatever, sir," he answered.  "I have always been considered
a quite capable officer, I believe; and, previous to the accident of which I have spoken, my
skill as a seaman was never once called in question."

"I am glad to hear that," was the admiral's reply, "for I have a suggestion to make which I
trust may meet with your approval.  I suppose I may take it for granted that you are open to
an offer of employment in your own vocation?"

"Well," returned Frobisher, hesitatingly.  "I scarcely know how to answer that question.  You
see I signed on under--under--"

"You may safely continue, Mr Frobisher," smiled the admiral. "Everything you may say to me
here shall be considered as absolutely private."

"Under Captain Drake, of the Quernmore, then," Frobisher continued; "and although I did my
best to carry out his orders, I failed, and he will consequently be a very heavy loser.  My
failure cannot, I think, be considered my fault; and, as I only signed on for the voyage out
here, I suppose I may now consider myself a free agent, especially as I have not yet drawn
any pay for my services.  But I feel that it is perhaps my duty to go back to Sam-riek, to
see Captain Drake and explain matters; for he may be waiting there for me, expecting my return."

"Of course I do not know Captain Drake, or how he would be likely to act under the circumstances,"
rejoined Wong-lih; "but I feel sure that by this time he will have learnt of the capture of
the consignment--news travels fast out here, you know; and knowing that you had fallen into
the clutches of the Korean troops, he will, to put it bluntly, expect never to see you alive
again.  Nor would he ever have done so, but for the fortunate circumstance of the arrival of
my squadron here on this particular day.  This being so, it occurs to me that Captain Drake
would not be at all likely to risk a long stay at Sam-riek in the very forlorn hope of your
returning, but would get away from the place as quickly as possible.  I should not be at all
surprised if his vessel were to be found in Chemulpo harbour within the next few days.  In
any case, if you really wish to communicate with him you can write him a letter, and I will
engage to get it delivered to him, if his ship is still in these waters.  How would that suit
you, Mr Frobisher?"

"The arrangement will suit me admirably, sir," replied Frobisher, "though I cannot quite see
why I should not endeavour to rejoin Captain Drake.  You mentioned, however, I remember, something
as to my being open to accept other employment.  Possibly that may have some bearing upon the
matter."

"It has everything to do with it," said the admiral, "as I will endeavour to show you presently.
But, first of all, I must ask you to listen to me for a few minutes while I try to give you
an insight into the trend of recent events out here; for unless I do so, you will be unable
to understand what I am `driving at', as I believe you English call it."

"Pray proceed, sir," was Frobisher's reply.

"Very well then.  You are of course aware that rebellion has been rife in Korea for some months
past, hence the endeavour of the insurgents to procure arms; while the Korean Government has
been making every effort to put down the rebellion without the necessity of asking for outside
assistance or intervention.  The attempt, however, has not been a success, for the rebels are
making headway all over the country; to such an extent, indeed, that the Korean Government
has at last been obliged to apply to my Imperial master, the Emperor, for assistance.  That
application arrived some weeks ago; but it was only a few days ago that the necessary arrangements
could be completed for armed intervention on our part.  It was necessary to get together troops,
transports, and so on, and to recall some of our men-of-war to act as convoy; and all this
naturally took time.

"The preparations were finally completed, however, and four days ago I embarked the troops
and left Wei-hai-wei for the port of Asan, where we now are, and which was reported to me as
being a centre of disaffection, a hotbed of rebellion.  But I most certainly never anticipated,
when I left, that I should have the pleasure of rescuing a fellow sailor from a most serious
predicament.  However, to continue.  By the convention of 1884 at Tien-tsin, between China
and Japan, it was agreed that, should either country have occasion to send an armed force into
Korea, the sender should inform the other country of the circumstance, giving full particulars
of the reason, the strength of the force sent, and any other information deemed necessary.
This was done by cable, before I left Wei-hai-wei, and the Japanese reply arrived by cable,
also before I left.  It was curt in tone to a degree, and intimated briefly that Japan intended
to send a guard to Seoul for the protection of her ambassador-- as though we ourselves could
not afford him the necessary protection-- and hinted very strongly that she might consider
it advisable to send an armed force of her own--to see that we do not run away with the country,
presumably.

"Little enough, you will say, to cause misgiving on our part; but the fact remains that relations
between China and Japan have been very strained for some time past, and our Council feels that
this action on our part will bring matters to a head, especially in view of the veiled threat
that Japan may perhaps find it necessary to land an armed force herself.  Matters look very
ominous, Mr Frobisher, in the opinion of nearly all our leading men, so we are naturally eager
so to order things that, if trouble should arise between the two countries--as I, for one,
feel certain it will--we shall not be entirely unprepared.  It is most unfortunate, however,
that we are at present extremely short of naval officers; indeed, if war were to break out
to-morrow it is an absolute certainty that several of our men-of-war would be unable to put
to sea, for want of capable officers to man them.  Crews sufficient we have, but officers--"

"Surely you are not serious, sir?" exclaimed Frobisher.

"But I am, indeed, sir," replied Wong-lih.  "And now you will see whither this long story of
mine is leading, and why I asked you if you would be ready to accept employment.  Stated very
briefly, the situation is this.  If you will agree to my proposal, I can secure for you the
position of captain on board a very fine new cruiser of ours, which, at present, we cannot
send to sea for the reason I have just mentioned.  I cannot actually make the appointment myself,
but I can give you passage to Wei-hai-wei, whence you can easily reach Tien-tsin, where the
Council is now sitting; and on my recommendation there would be no hesitation on its part about
giving you the post--quite the reverse, indeed.  There would be no unpleasant conditions imposed
upon you; you would not be required to become a Chinese subject, or to do anything, in short,
that would affect your allegiance to your own glorious Queen--whom may Buddha in his mercy
preserve!  All that would be required of you would be an oath to serve faithfully and to the
best of your ability while in the Chinese service.  Now, I have said my say; let me have your
opinion and decision, for I have already spent more time in this fortress than I should have."

For some moments Frobisher remained in deep thought.  Undoubtedly, this offer of Wong-lih's
opened up a most rosy vista of the future.  Captain of a fine new cruiser, with the prospect
of a naval war in the near future--what more could any Navy man ask for?  There would be chances
in plenty to win honour, fame, renown; and his name might even go down in history if he had
any luck!  It was a tempting bait, indeed, that Wong-lih held out; and, being at a loose end,
the Englishman would have been more--or less--than human if he had not jumped at it.  Besides,
why should not he?  His own country had rejected his services; another country, apparently,
had need of them: so why should he not sell his sword to that country?  There was no reason
at all, so far as he could see; and his mind was made up in less than a minute.

Turning to Wong-lih, he held out his hand with the simple words, "I accept"; and by so doing,
altered the whole course of his existence, and opened up for himself a vista of such dazzling
brilliance that, could he but have glanced into the future, even his steady, somewhat unemotional
brain might have been very nearly turned.  But before this could be realised he was to pass
through scenes and experiences which were to leave their mark indelibly upon him.

The admiral returned Frobisher's grip with great heartiness.

"I am rejoiced to learn your decision, Mr Frobisher," he said, bowing courteously; "and I feel
sure you will never have cause to regret it. For such a man as yourself, the Chinese Naval
service, at the present moment, offers almost unlimited scope; and there is no reason at all
why you should not, in the course of a few years, rise to the highest position in it.  We urgently
need good men just now, for I am sorry to say that bribery, corruption, and treachery are frightfully
prevalent in both the Army and the Navy; and my heart sometimes misgives me when I think of
the revelations that are bound to be made when we come to hand-grips with Japan--as I feel
confident we soon shall.

"But I must not continue in this strain, or you will be refusing the job with thanks.  I suppose
there is nothing to keep you here?  I mean, you will be able to accompany me back to my ship
and make the voyage to Wei-hai-wei with me?  I return almost immediately, for my duties consisted
simply in convoying the transports here, and looking into matters at Asan sufficiently to enable
me to make a report on my return; and that I have already done; so that I am prepared to weigh
as soon as it is daybreak.  I shall be honoured, also, if you will consider yourself my guest
while on board the Hai-yen, my flagship."

Frobisher bowed his thanks.  "The honour is mine," he said, "and I shall have great pleasure
in accepting your kind invitation.  Also, as I have absolutely nothing but what I stand up
in, my preparations are not likely to occupy much time," and he laughed.  "But," he continued,
as Wong-lih turned toward the door, "there is one thing which I think we have both forgotten,
and which may prove an insuperable objection to my joining the Chinese Navy."

"And that is?" enquired the admiral, raising his eyebrows.

"That I have practically no knowledge of the Chinese language," replied Frobisher.  "To be
of any real use as captain of a cruiser it seems to me that a thorough acquaintance with Chinese
is an absolute necessity."

"If that is your only objection," exclaimed Wong-lih in a tone of relief, "you may dismiss
it at once.  I had not overlooked the fact that you might be ignorant of Chinese; but we shall
do for you exactly what we are doing in the case of Captain Foster of the battleship Chen-yuen,
who is also an Englishman.  We shall provide you with an efficient interpreter, whose sole
duty it will be to remain constantly at your side and translate your wishes and commands into
Chinese; so, you see, there will be no difficulty at all on that score.  Now, if you are quite
ready, shall we go?  I have no time to spare, and, moreover, the atmosphere of this place is
anything but agreeable."

As he spoke, the admiral opened the heavy door and, courteously signing to the Englishman to
precede him, allowed Frobisher to pass out into the stone-flagged corridor.  Thence they followed
the route by which the Englishman had been brought on the previous day, until they came to
the room in which he had been cross-examined by the commandant of the fort; and there they
found the latter, with the Governor and several other officials, all of whom respectfully rose
to their feet upon the admiral's entrance. Ah, war!
The stupid war!

In the middle of the Champs Elysees saw a man with wide-brimmed hat, marching in front of them
slowly and talking to himself. Argensola recognized him as he passed to a lamppost: "The friend
Tchernoff." The Russian, returning the greeting, let out the bottom of his beard a faint smell
of wine.

No invitation arranged his passage to them, following them into Arc de Triomphe.

July had only crossed the silent greetings with friends to find you Argensola the porch of
the house.

But sorrow softens the mood and does look like a cool shade the friendship of the poor. Tchernoff,
meanwhile, looked as if he knew Desnoyers lifetime.

He had interrupted his monologue, heard only the masses of black vegetation, banks lonely blue
shadow red pierced by the tremor of the lanterns, the summer night
with its dome and sidereal blows hot flashes.

Took a few steps without speaking, as a a courtesy to the passengers, then resumed his arguments,
taking them where he had abandoned, without explanation, as if march alone.

And at this hour --... cheers as well as the people here will believe
in good faith going to defend their homeland caused, want to die for
their families and homes threatened anyone.

- Who are those, Tchernoff?
- Asked Argensola.

Russian looked at him, as if strange your question.

- They - said
laconically.

They both understood ... Them! There could be others.

- I have lived ten years in Germany - continued, giving more access to his words to be heard -.
I went daily correspondent in Berlin, and I know these people. Passing crowd filled the boulevard,
I saw with what happens beyond imagination at this hour. Also singing and waving flags roar of enthusiasm.
Are equal to each other externally, but what a difference, inside! ... Last night on the boulevard,
he persecuted people a vociferous shouting: "A Berlin!" is a cry of bad memories and bad taste.
France does not want conquests His only desire is to be respected, to live in peace without
humiliation or uneasiness. This night, two to go mobilized said: "When we get in Germany they will
assess the Republic ... "The Republic is not a perfect thing, my friends, but it represents something
better to live under an irresponsible monarch by the grace of God. If nothing else, is peaceful
and no personal ambitions that disturb life.

And I have moved by the feeling generous of these two workers, instead of thinking about the
extermination of their enemies, they want correct them, giving them
what they consider best.

Tchernoff paused a few moments to smile wryly at the sight that presented itself his imagination.

-
In Berlin, the masses express their enthusiasm is high, as befits a superior people. The Underdogs,
who are comforted by their humiliation with a gross materialism, shouting to those hours: "A
Paris! Let them drink free champagne! "The bourgeoisie pietistic capable of doing anything reach
a new honor, and the aristocracy who has given the world the biggest scandals of recent years,
also shouted "To Paris!" Paris is the Babylon of sin, city Moulin Rouge and the restaurants of Montmartre,
the only places they know ... And my comrades of Social-Democracy
also shout, but they have been taught to another song: "In Moscow!

A Petersburg! We must crush the Russian tyranny, danger of civilization!

"The Kaiser driving the tyranny of another country as a scarecrow
for his people ... What a laugh!

And the laughter of Russian rang in the silence of the night like a rattle.

- We are more civilized than the Germans - said when he stopped laughing.

Desnoyers, who listened with interest, made a surprise move and said: "This Tchernoff has drunk
something. "

- Civilization - continued - is not only a major industry in many
boats, armies and numerous universities that teach only science.

That is a material civilization. Another top that lifts the soul and does not allow human dignity
suffer without protest continuous humiliation. A Swiss citizen who lives in his chalet, considering
equal to the other men in his country is more civilized than the Herr Professor has to give
way to a lieutenant or the rich in Hamburg bends like a lackey to which von particle holds.

Here the Spanish nodded, as though divining what was going to add Tchernoff.

- The Russians suffered a great tyranny. I know something about this. I know the hunger and cold
of dungeons have lived in Siberia ... But compared to our tyranny has always existed a protest
revolutionary. A portion of the nation's half barbaric, but the rest has a mind higher, a high
moral spirit that makes you face dangers and sacrifices for freedom and the truth ... And
Germany? Who has ever objected to it, to defend rights human? What revolutions have been known
in Prussia, land of great tyrants? Founder militarism, Frederick William, when he got tired of
beating his wife and spitting in the course of their children, out into the street club in
hand to hit to the subjects that did not run to time.

His son Frederick the Great declared that he died of governing a people bored slaves. In two
centuries of Prussian history, one revolution: the barricades of 1848 Berlin bad copy of the
revolution in Paris, and to no avail. Bismarck pressed hand to crush the last attempts to protest,
if it really existed. And when his friends threatened a revolution, the ferocious Junker put
her hands to the flanks, launching the most insolent laughter. A revolution in Prussia! ...
No one like him known to his people.

Tchernoff was not patriotic. Many times I had heard Argensola speak against his country. But was
indignant when considering the contempt with which the Germanic pride was the Russian people.
Where was, in the last forty years of imperial grandeur, intellectual hegemony boasted that
the Germans? ... Excellent pawns of science and tenacious scholars view short, confined each
in his specialty, lab Benedictines, who worked sometimes a long and successful through huge
mistakes given as truths be yours: that was all. And next to such patient diligence and worthy
of respect, what of cheaters! What big names exploited as a sample of store! Many scholars sanatorium
stuck to hotel! ... Herr Professor discovered a cure of tuberculosis,
and consumptive continued to die as before.

Another sign with a figure the winning choice of the most shameful of diseases and genital
fever was sweeping the world. Y all these errors accounted for considerable fortunes, each resulted
in saving panacea to the establishment of an industrial society, selling products at great prices,
as if the pain is a privilege of the rich. How far from the bluff Pasteur and other wise inferior
peoples, who fought the world his secrets to paying no monopolies!

- German science - continued Tchernoff - has given much to humanity, I admit, but science of
other nations has given a lot alike. Only crazy people can be proud imagine that he is everything
to civilization and the others are nothing ... Apart from scholars specialists, what genius has
been in our time that Germany believes that universal? Wagner is the ultimate romantic, closes
an era and the past. Nietzsche was hard to demonstrate his Polish origin and abhorred of Germany,
which, he said, of bourgeois pedants. Your Slavism was so pronounced that even prophesied the crushing
of the Germans by Slavs ... And there are no more. We savages, have given the world in recent performers
times morally admirable greatness. Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky are universal. What names can be placed
in front of them Wilhelm II's Germany? ... His country was the homeland of music, but this Russian musicians
are more original than the followers the Wagnerian, who take refuge in the exasperation of
the orchestra to hide their mediocrity ... The German people had
geniuses in their time of grief, when not yet born Pangerman pride,
when there was the Empire.

Goethe, Schiller, Beethoven, were subjects of small principalities. Were influenced by other
countries, contributed to world civilization, as citizens the world, not occur to the Germanic
world should be paying attention to because their works.

Tsarism had committed atrocities. Tchernoff knew from experience and did not need Germans come
to tell. But all the educated classes of Russia were enemies from tyranny and stood against
it. Where were the intellectuals enemies in Germany Prussian Czarism?

Callahan flattery or burst into God's anointed, musician and comedian as Nero, a lively intelligence
and superficial, whereas, touch everything, thought I knew everything. Eager to reach a scenic
position in history had finally afflict the world with the greatest of calamities.

- Why should it be Russian tyranny that weighs upon my country? The worst czars were imitators
of Prussia. In our times, each time the Polish or Russian people have tried to claim their rights,
the reactionaries used the Kaiser as a threat, saying it would to his aid. One half of the Russian aristocracy
is German, German generals more have distinguished stabbing the people, German officials argue
and advise tyranny German officers who are responsible for killings punish workers' strikes and rebellion
of the peoples annexed. The Slavic reactionary is brutal, but it has the sentimentality of
a race in which many princes are nihilists. Whip raised easily but then repents and cries sometimes.
I've seen them kill Russian officers not to go against the people or by remorse for having executed
massacres. The German service Czarism no qualms or regrets his conduct kills coldly, methodically
detailed and accurate, as everything runs. The Russian is a barbarian, paste and repents, the
civilized German shoots without hesitation. Our Tsar, in a humanitarian dream Slavic stroked
utopia generous universal peace, organizing conferences in The Hague. The Kaiser of culture has worked
for years and years in the assembly and body fatness destructive as ever was known to crush Europe.
The Russian is a humble Christian, egalitarian, democratic, thirsty for justice, the German
boasts of Christianity, but is an idolater as the Germans of other
centuries.

His religion loves the blood and maintains the caste, their religion is true Odin, but now the
god of the massacre has been renamed and is called the State.

Tchernoff He paused, perhaps to better appreciate the strangeness
of his companions, and then said with simplicity:

- I am a Christian.

Argensola, who knew the ideas and the history of Russia, made a gesture of astonishment. July
insisted on his suspicions: "Definitely, this Tchernoff drunk."

- It's true - he continued - that I care little about God and not believe in dogmas, but my soul
is Christian like all revolutionaries. The philosophy of modern democracy is a secular Christianity.
Socialists love the poor, the needy, the weak. Defend their right to life and welfare, as
well as the great exalted religion which were at all unhappy to a
brother.

We demand respect for the poor on behalf of justice, the others ask in the name of piety. This
only divides us. But a and other men seek to agree to a better life that the strong sacrifice
for the weak, the powerful and the humble and the world is governed by the fraternity, seeking the
greatest possible equality.

The Slavic summarized the history of human aspirations. Greek thought had welfare on earth, but only
for a few, for the citizens of their small democracies, for free men, leaving behind his misery
slaves and barbarians which constituted the majority.

Christianity, the religion of humble, had recognized them all beings the right to happiness,
but this happiness was placed in the sky, away from this world "valley of tears." The revolution
and its socialist heirs put happiness in the immediate realities of the land, like the ancients,
and made partakers of it to all men, as well as Christians.

- Where is the Christianity of the German present? ... There are more Christian spirit in the secular
socialism of the French Republic, defender of the weak, that religiosity the conservative Junkers.
Germany has made a god in his likeness, and when you believe worship, is its own image as
he loves.

The German God is a reflection of the German State that views war as the primary function of
a people and the noblest of occupations.

Other Christian peoples, when they have to fight, feel the contradiction between their conduct and
the Gospel, and excuse themselves saying the cruel necessity of defending themselves. Germany
declares that the war is pleasing to God. I know German sermons proving that Jesus was a supporter
of militarism.

Germanic pride, the belief that race is destined to dominate providentially
the world could agree to Protestants, Catholics and Jews.

- Over
their differences of dogma is the God of the State, who is German,
the God warrior to which you may call William at this hour "my worthy
partner."

Tended Religions always at the universal. Its purpose is to bring men into relationship with
God and support the relations between all men. Prussia has retrograded to barbarism created
for use personal one second Lord, a god hostile to the majority of mankind, which their grievances
and ambitions of the German people.

Then Tchernoff explained his own way the creation of the Germanic God, ambitious, cruel, vindictive.
The Germans were Christians from the previous day.

His six-dating Christianity nothing centuries, while the other peoples of Europe was ten, fifteen,
eighteen centuries. When they were done and the Crusades, the Prussians were still living in
paganism. The pride of race, to push them to war, was to revive the dead gods. A Like the old
Germanic god, who was a warlord, the God of the Gospel Germans saw adorned with spear and shield.

-
Christianity in Berlin wears a helmet and riding boots. God is mobilized at this time as well
as Otto, Fritz and Franz, to punish the enemies of the chosen people. Nothing matter who ordered:
"Do not kill" and tell your child on earth: "Blessed the peacemakers.

"Christianity, according to the German priests of all denominations, only may influence the individual
improvement of men and should not interfere in the life State. The God of the Prussian state is
the 'old German God, "an heir to the fierce Germanic mythology, an amalgam of the gods hungry
for war.

In the silence of the avenue, Russian red figures evoked the ruthless gods. Iban to wake up that
night to feel loved in his ears the clash of arms and on his nose the acrid scent of blood.
Thor, the god of brutal small head, stretched his biceps, wielding the hammer that smashes cities.
Wotan sharpened his spear, which is the lightning for iron and shoe
thunder.

Odin, the one eye, yawned at the top of gluttony the mountain, waiting for the dead warriors
would pile up around his throne. The Valkyrie disheveled, sweaty and smelling virgins colt began to
gallop from cloud cloud whipping men with howls, to take the bodies, bent like saddlebags Upon
the back of his flying hacks.

- The Germanic religion - continued Russian - is the negation of Christianity.

For her, men are equal before God. This only appreciate the strong, and supports them with its influence
to dare all things.

Those born weak must submit or disappear. Peoples are not equal: they are divided into villages and
towns lower drivers whose destination is being shredded and treated by them. God wills it.
And it is useless to say great people that driver is Germany.

Argensola interrupted. German pride was not based solely on their God also appealed to science.

- I know that - "the Russian said without letting it -: determinism,
inequality, selection, the struggle for life ... The Germans, so proud
of their worth, built on land foreign intellectual monuments, borrow
overseas foundation material when making new work.

A Frenchman and an Englishman, Gobineau and Chamberlain, have given arguments to defend the superiority
of their race. With rubble left over from Darwin and Spencer, his elder Haeckel has made the
"monism" doctrine, as applied to politics, enshrined scientifically German pride and recognizes
their right to rule the world, being the strongest.

- No, a thousand times no - continued to power after a brief silence -. All that fighting through
life with their attendant cruelties may be true in lower species, but should not be true among
men. We are beings of reason and progress, and we must free ourselves the fate of the environment,
modifying it to our convenience. The animal does not know the law, justice, compassion, lives gloom
slave of his instincts. We think, and thought means freedom. The strong, to be, need not appear
cruel, it greater when not abusing his power and is good. Everyone has the right to life, as
born, and still just as proud and humble beings, beautiful or weak nations must continue to live
large and small, old and young.

The purpose of our there is no struggle, there is murder and then
kill us, and who in turn Our drop dead matador.

Leave that to the blind nature. Civilized people of follow a common thought, must adopt the
Mediterranean Europe, making the design more peaceful and sweet life possible.

A cruel smile stirred the bearded Russian.

- But there Kultur, the Germans want to impose and that is the very
opposite civilization.

Civilization is the refinement of spirit, respect Similarly, the tolerance of others' opinions,
the softness of manners. Kultur is the action of a State organizes and assimilates individuals
and communities to which they serve in their mission. And this mission is mainly to be above
other states, crushing with its grandeur, or what is, pride, ferocity, violence.

They had arrived at the Place de l'Etoile. The Arc de Triomphe stood out in his dark mole starry
space. The floods spread in all directions a double row of lights. The street lights around
the monument lit up their bases and huge feet sculptural groups. Closed above the shadows, giving
the monument the black light density of ebony.

They crossed the square and the Arc. To be under the canopy, that rang, enlarged, echo its paces,
they stopped. The breeze of the night took a cold winter to slide the interior of the building.
The vault trimmed the edges of their ends on Blue fuzzy space. Instinctively, the three head
back to show us a to the Champs Elysees, which had left behind.

Just saw a shadow on the river floating Rosaries red star between two long black escarpments
formed by the buildings.

But they were familiar with the situation, and believed seen in the dark, without any effort,
the majestic slope of the avenue, the double row of palaces, the square Concordia in the background
with its Egyptian needle, the trees of the Tuileries.

- This is beautiful - Tchernoff said, he saw something more than shadows -. An entire civilization
love peace and sweetness of life has been here.

A memory melted into Russian.

Many afternoons, after lunch, had found that to place a strong man, square, blond beard and
kind eyes. He looked like a giant stopped in the middle of its growth. A dog with him. Jaures
was his friend Jaures, which before going to the House took a walk to the Arc from his house in
Passy.

- He liked to be where we are at this time.

She looked at the avenues, gardens far, all Paris is offered to the
admiration from this height.

Touched and told me: "This is fantastic. One of the most beautiful views can be found in the
world ... " Jaures Poor!

Russian, by an association of ideas, evoking the image of his compatriot Miguel Bakounine, another
revolutionary, father of anarchism, weeping with emotion at a concert
after hear the Beethoven symphony with choirs, directed by a young
friend named Ricardo Wagner.

"When you come to our revolution - shouted shaking hands with the teacher - and perish what exists,
it will be saved at any cost. "

Tchernoff tore at his memories to look around and say with sadness:

- They have been here.

Every time I passed through the Arch, the same image arose in his
memory. They were thousands of helmets gleaming in the sun, thousands
of heavy boots all rising with a mechanical stiffness time, short
trumpets, fifes, tamborcillos flat, touching the August silence of
the stone, the military march from Lohengrin played on the deserted
streets to closed homes.

He, who was a foreigner, he was attracted
by this monument, with the attraction of buildings venerable keep
the glory of the ancestors. I did not want to know who had created.
Men build believing solidify an immediate idea who flatters his pride.
Then humanity ensues, more comprehensive view, which changes the meaning
of the work and enhances, stripping it of its former self. Greek statues,
models of supreme beauty, had were originally simple shrine images
donated by the piety of the devotees of those times. Referring to
the Roman greatness, everyone saw in imagination the vast Coliseum,
arena killing, or high arches to the glory of the Caesars inept.  It was therefore to be hoped that her bottom
was not so badly injured as Wong-lih had at first anticipated, and that, at the rising of the
tide, it might be possible, with the assistance of the San-chau, to get her safely off again.
The admiral intimated to her captain that he would stand by all night, and would commence salvage
operations as soon after daylight as the state of the tide would permit.  Meanwhile steam was
to be kept in the boilers, and the pumps were to be kept going continuously, so as to free
the ship from water by the time that morning dawned.

High tide, Admiral Prince Wong-lih ascertained from his almanack, was at about seven-thirty
on the following morning; so before daybreak all hands were mustered and preparations put in
hand for running a hawser across to the Chih' Yuen.  The sea had gone down during the night
until, when the first streaks of daylight came stealing up out of the east, it was almost as
calm as on the previous afternoon before the storm.

Frobisher was one of the first among the officers to turn out and go up on deck, and he occupied
the time until breakfast very pleasantly in watching the cruiser's boats running out kedge-anchors.
Everything being then in readiness, and both ships being under a full pressure of steam, the
crews went to breakfast; and directly that was disposed of, the San-chau's boats were sent
across to the cruiser with a light steel hawser, Wong-lih accompanying them in person, to see
that "that fool of a captain" did not make any mistakes this time.  The light hawser having
been taken aboard the Chih' Yuen, the towing hawser, also of steel, was bent on to the end
still on board the dispatch-vessel, and was hauled from her through the water on board the cruiser.

As soon as this was done, the ends of the steel hawser on board both craft were backed by several
thicknesses of best Manila hemp, in order to procure the necessary elasticity and guard against
the wire-rope parting when the terrific strain should be put upon it.  After this the hemp
portion of the tow-rope was secured to bollards on the quarter-decks of both craft, the slack
of the hawsers attached to the kedge-anchors was taken up, the skippers stood by their respective
engine-room telegraphs, and, at a signal from Wong-lih, the San-chau went slowly ahead until
the towing hawser was taut.  Steam was then given to the after-winches aboard the cruiser,
to which the kedge-hawsers were led, the screws of the Chih' Yuen were sent astern at full
speed, while the San-chau went ahead with every ounce of steam her boilers could supply to
the engines.

The great steel cable vibrated until it fairly hummed with the strain, the Chih' Yuen's winches
bucked and kicked until Wong-lih, on the cruiser's bridge, momentarily expected them to break
away altogether, and the white water foamed and roared under both vessels' quarters as the
screws whirred round.  For several minutes it seemed as though the attempt was doomed to failure,
and that all the cables would part without the cruiser budging an inch; but quite suddenly,
as Frobisher watched, keeping the cruiser's mast in line with a pinnacle of rock about a quarter
of a mile behind her, he detected a slight movement. The vessel's mast appeared to vibrate,
as though the cruiser herself were pulsing with life, and then it slowly, very slowly, moved
backward, until mast and pinnacle were a little out of line.

"She moves! she moves!" he shouted, waving his cap in his excitement; and then, like a vessel
gradually sliding off the stocks when being launched, the Chih' Yuen gathered way, and a few
moments later she slid bodily off the rock with a plunge that caused the San-chau to roll as
though in a heavy sea, overrunning her kedge-anchors before her momentum could be checked.

She was afloat again, however, and Frobisher breathed a sigh of thanksgiving.  He had set his
heart on commanding her, and he would have been bitterly disappointed if so fine a ship had
been lost to him and the Navy through the despicable cupidity of a mandarin and the incompetence
of a Chinese so-called sailor.

Wong-lih remained aboard the cruiser for another hour or more, until he had satisfied himself
that the leaks resulting from her strained and buckled plates were not so serious but that
they could easily be kept under by the pumps; and then, having signalled for the first lieutenant
of the San-chau to come aboard and take charge of the cruiser, in place of the incompetent
captain, he ordered the latter to accompany him back to the dispatch-boat under arrest, as
a preliminary to his appearance before a court martial at Tien-tsin on the charge of stranding
his ship.

Wong-lih and the captain having boarded the San-chau, steam was rung for, and presently the
two ships proceeded on their respective voyages, dipping their flags to each other as they
parted company.

"It was most fortunate that we saw those rockets last night," observed Wong-lih, when he and
Frobisher were again standing together on the San-chau's bridge.  "Had we not happened to be
on the spot at the moment, the Navy would have lost the Chih' Yuen, without a doubt.  As it
is, I fear she is rather badly damaged, and it will probably mean a few months in dock for
her before she is fit for service again--which is all the more deplorable, because we may need
her at any moment.  At a crisis like this every vessel counts, especially in such a small navy
as we possess.  I am afraid you will not be joining your ship just yet, Mr Frobisher; but I
have not the least doubt that, when we reach Tien-tsin, some congenial service will be found
for you which will keep you occupied until the Chih' Yuen is repaired.  There is plenty of
work, and very few officers to do it; so you need have no apprehension whatever on the score
of non-employment."

"I thank your Highness," answered Frobisher.  "I am rejoiced to hear you say that, for I confess
I felt very sore when I saw my ship, or what was intended to be my ship, cast away on the Miao-tao
reef."

Twenty-four hours later the San-chau steamed past the Taku forts, flying the admiral's flag
to announce that Wong-lih was on board, and received and answered a salute from the batteries;
and shortly afterward the anchor was dropped in the middle of the river, opposite the handsome
city of Tien-tsin, upon which Frobisher now looked for the first time.

CHAPTER TEN.

THE PIRATES' LAIR.

It was about midday when the San-chau anchored off the port of Tien-tsin; and Wong-lih suggested
to his young protege that they should lunch aboard before going ashore to the Navy Buildings,
which were at that time situated in the "Street of many Sorrows"--an ill-omened name, indeed,
as after-events were to prove.

They were nearing the completion of the meal when there came a knock upon the cabin door, and
the sentry announced that a messenger had arrived with a letter for "his Highness, the most
honourable Admiral Prince Wong-lih".  The admiral opened and read it, wrote a brief reply,
and then explained to Frobisher that, the arrival of the San-chau having been observed, and
his own presence on board disclosed by the fact of his flag flying from the fore-topmast head,
the Council, then sitting in debate at the Navy Buildings, had sent to say that they would
be glad to see him on a matter of importance as soon as he could make it convenient to come ashore.

"Further developments in Korea, I suspect," observed the admiral, frowning.  "I pray that no
open rupture between ourselves and Japan may occur just yet; for we are utterly unprepared.
We must put off the evil day as long as possible, even if we have to humble ourselves before
them for a month or two; for it would be absolutely suicidal for us to engage in a war with
Japan at the present moment.  Our ships are good; our men are excellent fighters; and to the
outsider it would naturally appear that all the advantages are on our side: but alas! men,
however brave they may be, cannot fight to win under the command of inefficient officers, and
with arms, ammunition, and stores that may fail them at any moment.  Ah me! ah me!"

"You feel, then," said Frobisher, "that war is inevitable?"

"I am sure of it," replied the admiral.  "Perhaps not to-day, or to-morrow; but war there certainly
will be before many months are past. I only wish I could bring the realisation of this fact
home to some of those officials who are content to wait and wait, spending the country's money,
if not on themselves personally, at any rate upon things on which it ought not to be spent;
until the time comes, all too suddenly, when they will awake to the fact that they have procrastinated
too long, and that their country is at the mercy of the enemy."

"Let us hope, sir," replied Frobisher, cheerfully--for he had begun to have quite a strong
liking for the cultured and patriotic Chinese gentleman and sailor, and was sorry to find him
taking so pessimistic a view of the situation--"that matters are not so bad as you imagine,
and that China will issue from the coming struggle more powerful than before."

"We will, indeed, hope so," said Wong-lih, rising.  "But I greatly fear that our hope will
be unfulfilled.  However, an end to these dismal forebodings of mine, Mr Frobisher!  I am growing
old, and am on that account more liable, perhaps, to look on the dark side of things.  Let
us go ashore now, and see what it is that the Council wishes to talk about.  I will seize the
opportunity to introduce you to the officials composing it, and we will get your commission
made out and signed, so that you may be ready for service whenever called upon."

With these words Wong-lih went up on deck, followed by Frobisher, and the two men, entering
the San-chau's gig, were pulled ashore.

Frobisher was very favourably impressed by the handsome appearance of the various public buildings,
and was quite astonished at the size and magnificence of those devoted to the Navy Department,
when he and his companion finally halted before the wrought-iron gates which gave admittance
to the grounds surrounding them.

Wong-lih, exhilarated at the near prospect of a discussion upon his favourite subject, the
Navy, ran up the steps leading into the building with the activity of a boy; and in a few minutes
the two men found themselves in a beautifully-furnished antechamber, whither they had been
conducted to wait for the summons to present themselves before the all-powerful Council.  Frobisher
himself felt just a trifle nervous at the prospect, but Wong-lih's countenance was transformed
by a happy smile, while he actually sniffed the air from time to time, like an old warhorse
scenting battle.

Presently a door, opposite that by which the two had entered, opened, and a gorgeously-dressed
attendant stepped up to Wong-lih and saluted, saying something at the same time in Chinese.

"Come along, my young friend," smilingly exclaimed the admiral, as he rose to his feet; "the
moment of your ordeal has arrived.  Present a bold front, my boy; there is nothing to be nervous
about, I assure you."

He led the way, through the door which the attendant respectfully held open, into another chamber--or
rather hall, so large and lofty was it-- where Frobisher saw a group of Chinamen, nine in number,
seated round an oval table on which a quantity of official-looking documents were lying. So
far as it is possible to tell any Chinaman's age from mere observation, they were all elderly
men, with the exception of one individual, who was obviously quite young, and who was seated
at the right hand of the one who was clearly the chief official present.

He was a man of perhaps thirty, or possibly younger still, with a very yellow skin, a long,
very thin, drooping moustache, and brilliant, coal-black eyes, deeply sunken in their sockets,
out of which they glared with an emotionless, steely glitter that reminded Frobisher most unpleasantly
of a snake.  There was also in them something of the deadly malevolence that all snakes' eyes
seem to possess, and the Englishman could barely repress a shudder of disgust as he found those
eyes fixed on his, for he felt as though he had suddenly come in contact with some noxious reptile.

As they entered, the Council, with the exception of the man just referred to, rose and bowed
solemnly to Wong-lih, who returned the bow ceremoniously.  He and Frobisher were then signed
to seat themselves, after which the Councillors resumed their seats.

Commencing with the old man at the head of the table, each of the members of the Council in
turn questioned Wong-lih, and a long conversation in Chinese ensued, which Frobisher was of
course unable to understand.  He occupied himself with looking round the room and admiring
the wonderful carving and the priceless tapestries on the walls, and was quite taken by surprise
when he suddenly heard Wong-lih's voice calling his name.

He was then introduced to the Council collectively, and a number of questions were put to him
in English, with which tongue he was beginning to think every Chinaman must be familiar, so
many had he already encountered who were able to speak it almost as fluently as himself. Like
many of his fellow countrymen, he had up to now imagined that the Chinese were a barbarous
race, knowing nothing of anything that happened outside their own country.

Apparently he soon satisfied his examiners as to his nautical attainments; and presently he
found himself in possession of a parchment which set forth the fact that Murray Frobisher was
appointed to the Chinese Navy with the rank of captain; and he was informed that he was to
take command of the Chih' Yuen as soon as she was ready for service again.  Until that time
he was to consider himself on the staff of Admiral Wong-lih, who would find employment for
him in the interim. After this little ceremony a further lengthy discussion took place in Chinese,
and it was not until late in the evening that he and his sponsor were able to get away and
return to the ship.

Arrived there, they proceeded to the cabin where Wong-lih had taken up his quarters, and here
Frobisher received an account of what had occurred at the meeting.

"It seems," announced the admiral, "that a dispatch has been received from our Minister in
Tokio, informing us that the Japanese, although they have sent an escort for their Minister
at Seoul, have decided to delay for a time the dispatch of a large armed force to Korea, and
to await further developments.  This is grand news, for it gives us a little longer in which
to make our preparations; but our Minister also advises us to be on our guard, for Japan means
to force a quarrel, sooner or later.  Now, as regards yourself, news has recently been brought
that the river merchants of the Hoang-ho have been greatly troubled lately by the excesses
of a band of pirates, who are believed to have their head-quarters somewhere near the place
where the old bed of the river leaves the present channel--that is, not far from the village
of Tchen-voun-hien, three hundred miles from here.  I wish you to take command of the gunboat
Su-chen, and proceed in her to this place.  You will investigate the matter thoroughly; and,
if the stories are anything approaching truth, you will hunt down that band of pirates, and
destroy them and their head-quarters.  No quarter must be shown, Mr Frobisher; those criminals
must be dealt with severely.

"The interpreter I mentioned to you shall be attached at once to your person, and I shall be
glad if you will enter upon your new duties immediately.  Oh, by the way, I have also had news
of your friend, Captain Drake.  He was told of what had happened by a survivor from your party;
and he came round here in the Quernmore to demand that we send an expedition to rescue you.
He appears to be very much attached to you.

"Of course he was told that such a course was not to be thought of, besides being quite useless;
and he appeared to be very much cut up at the news, so I am told.  He accepted a contract from
the Navy Department for the supply of a cargo of arms, ammunition, and guns, and left in his
ship for England only a week before our own arrival here.  When he returns, should you not
be here yourself, I shall of course inform him of your rescue, and so ease his mind.

"Now, Captain Frobisher, I have little more to say.  Get away as soon as you can.  Your crew
is already aboard; and, if you need any stores or ammunition, indent for them in the usual
way; they will be duly supplied.  But there, I need not tell a British Navy man how to do his
business.  Good-bye, my boy, and Heaven grant you a safe return!" he concluded, affectionately.

The two men clasped hands, Wong-lih buried himself in a mass of papers, and Frobisher departed
to bed to refresh himself in readiness to commence his duties early on the following morning.
His last thought, as he dropped off to sleep, was that he was now Captain Frobisher, of the
Chih' Yuen; and that it would not be his fault if he did not make her name famous in Chinese
Naval history.

He awoke in the morning, however, utterly unrefreshed, for he had slept badly.  A vague feeling
of foreboding and a strong presentiment of disaster had oppressed him throughout the night,
and his dreams had been haunted by a thin, yellow face, with long, attenuated, drooping moustache--a
face out of which peered a pair of eyes, glowing like flame and with hideous possibilities
of evil shining in their black depths. The face was the face of Prince Hsi, the youngest member
of the Council.

The splendid, keen, invigorating air of a Chinese morning soon blew the cobwebs away from Frobisher's
brain, and half an hour after leaving his bed he was smiling to himself at his own folly in
allowing Prince Hsi's evil countenance to affect him to such an extent as to spoil his rest.
The man couldn't help being born with a face like that; and perhaps an ugly exterior might
in reality hide a very kind and gentle soul.  By the time that Frobisher had arrived at the
wharf where the Su-chen was lying, he had completely forgotten the existence of "the man with
the snake's eyes", as he afterwards came to call him.

The interpreter promised by Wong-lih had duly presented himself to Frobisher on board the San-chan
that morning, and the Englishman very soon began to find the man's services invaluable.  With
his assistance, the Su-chen was easily located, and Frobisher at once boarded her and made
himself known, and read his commission to her officers and crew through the medium of Quen-lung,
the interpreter.  A very quiet, decent set of men they seemed to be, to all appearance.  They
gave him such information as he asked for, quickly and without hesitation; and, so far as he
could learn on such brief acquaintance, seemed thoroughly conversant with their duties.  He
made enquiries about the amount of water and provisions that was aboard, satisfied himself
that there was a sufficiency to serve them for the expedition, and then went into the question
of the quantity of ammunition remaining on board.

This did not at all satisfy his requirements; for he found that, although there appeared to
be plenty of small-arm ammunition, there was very little belonging to the machine-guns and
the guns in the batteries; so, taking Quen-lung with him, he made his way to the magazines,
taking his requisition book with him in his pocket.

It was then that he obtained his first insight into the subtle ways of Chinese Naval officialdom.
He knew perfectly well what kind of ammunition he required, and how much of it, but he seemed
utterly unable to find anybody who possessed the necessary authority to issue it.  He was sent
from one official to another, all of them gorgeously dressed and very eager to give every assistance;
yet when the moment arrived for the stores to be actually given into his hands--well, they
were heart-broken to give the honourable captain so much trouble, but would he be pleased to
obtain the approval of his Excellency the honourable Somebody Else, whose signature was also
needed before the ammunition could be removed.

At last, so disgusted did Frobisher become at all this delay and prevarication that he went
back to the Su-chen, selected some twenty of the strongest members of his crew, and himself
took them up to the magazine with a number of hand-wagons which he had collected, under much
voluble protest, en route.  Then, having found the required pattern of cartridge, he ordered
his men to load the cases on to the wagons, and, amid the intensely-shocked expostulations
of the outraged officials of the Ordnance Department, who were quite unaccustomed to fill a
requisition in less than a month, the several indents were wheeled down to the gunboat by the
Chinese sailors, who already began to show the respect they felt for a man who knew what he
wanted, and got it.

The task was finished at last, and that afternoon the Su-chen dipped her ensign to the San-chau,
on board of which Admiral Wong-lih had his quarters, steamed down the river Pei-ho, past the
Taku forts at its mouth, and out into the open sea on her way to the mouth of the Hoang-ho,
some three hundred miles up which lay the village of Tchen-voun-hien, at or near which the
pirates' lair was said to be situated.  During the hundred-mile run across the gulf of Chi-lih,
Frobisher set his men to clean ship thoroughly, overhaul and polish the guns, and make things
in general a little more shipshape than they had been since the time when the Su-chen left
her builders' hands on the Thames.

Frobisher was fortunate in the moment when the gunboat arrived off the mouth of the Hoang-ho,
for the sea was smooth, and the usually dangerous bar at the mouth of the river was passed
with ease.  But there were many reminders, in the shape of broken spars, and in some cases
fragments of hulls, projecting out of the water, to show that the sea was not always in so
gentle a mood, and that many other captains had been less fortunate.  The bar at the mouth
of the Hoang-ho is indeed one vast graveyard, both of men and ships.

Frobisher anchored a few miles up the river, and spent a whole day exercising his men at cutlass
and small-arm drill, to smarten them up a little and prepare them as far as possible for the
cut-and-thrust work which, he felt sure, the task of exterminating the pirates would ultimately
involve.  Early on the following morning the voyage upstream was continued, the Su-chen making
not more than about six knots an hour against the strong current, the result, evidently, of
heavy rains up-country, for the river--well named the "Yellow River"--was thick and turbid
with mud, which had been washed off the surface of the land by the floods.

Mile after mile the Su-chen crept along, and the low, flat, uninteresting banks slipped gradually
astern.  A few junks were passed, but they were all too far away for Frobisher to communicate
with them, as they were well in under the land, while the gunboat was obliged, on account of
her draught, to keep more or less in the centre of the river.

One afternoon, however, there came from the man whom Frobisher had posted in the foretop, to
give warning of rocks or shoals, a shout that there was a dismasted junk about a mile ahead
which appeared to be trying to intercept the gunboat.  She seemed, the look-out reported, to
have been on fire, as well as having lost her mast, for he could plainly make out through his
telescope the black patches where her deck and bulwarks had been charred.  There were only
two men on deck, he added, and these men were doing all they could to attract attention, waving
something--he could not quite make out what--above their heads, and leaping about excitedly.
There were other dark-coloured patches about the deck, but at that distance it was not possible
to say whether they were the result of fire, or of something else.  Frobisher, however, who
had carefully listened to a report of the details from the interpreter, had the conviction
that there had been some happening on board that junk other than that of mere fire, and that
he was shortly to receive evidence with his own eyes of the activities of the pirates whom
he was going to exterminate; for he felt certain that the dark stains were not those of fire,
but of blood.

As soon as the unwieldy craft, which was progressing solely by the force of the current, approached
to within a quarter of a mile of the Sit-chen, Frobisher rang his engines to half-speed, so
that the gunboat barely made headway against the current, and thus awaited the junk's arrival.
The gunboat was skilfully manoeuvred alongside her, and the crew, with ropes and grapnels,
soon secured her, and assisted the two men who formed her sole complement up on deck.  Here
Frobisher, after giving them some refreshment, of which they were plainly in great need, questioned
them through the interpreter as to the cause of their present condition.

It was precisely as he had expected.  The junk had, it seemed, sailed a few days previously
from Tchen-tcheou, a town about six hundred miles from the mouth of the river, with a valuable
cargo of sandalwood intended for Tien-tsin; but on passing the spot where the old bed of the
river used to lie before the channel was diverted, she had been attacked by no fewer than five
large and heavily-armed junks, crowded with men. Before the crew could even place themselves
in a position for defence, the junk had been seized and the men cut to pieces by the ruthless
pirates.  The two men standing on the Su-chen's deck had escaped as by a miracle, for, after
taking all her cargo out of the junk and throwing dead and wounded overboard, the leader of
the pirates had indulged his humour by binding the two survivors and laying them on the deck,
afterwards firing the junk and setting her adrift.  The men had secured their freedom by one
of them gnawing the other's bonds loose, and they had then managed to extinguish the fire.

But--would not the honourable captain take his ship up the river, and wipe the pirates out,
lock, stock, and barrel?  Frobisher informed them that such was his intention; and, after asking
the two men whether they would accompany him as guides, and receiving their assurance that
they desired nothing better, he set the junk adrift again, since she was absolutely useless,
and continued his journey.

At nine o'clock the next morning one of the two new men, who had been looking keenly ahead
for a few moments, came up to Frobisher and pointed out what appeared to be a large, square,
stone-built castle, or fort, standing some distance back from the river bank, upon the top
of a knoll of rising ground.

"That," he announced, "is the pirates' head-quarters.  There is a little bight just at the
junction of the old and the new channels, and it is there that they lie in ambush with their
junks.  Now, sir, you can perhaps see their masts standing up behind that low bank yonder?"

Frobisher looked, and counted, indeed, five masts.  They were, then, evidently those belonging
to the pirate junks which had attacked the Chinese merchantman on the preceding day; and the
fort on the hill, yonder, was the pirates' lair which he had been specially dispatched from
Tien-tsin to destroy.  He rubbed his hands gleefully and gave orders to clear for action; then,
with his telescope fixed unwaveringly on the fort, he leant over the bridge rail, watching,
while the Su-chen, her engines working at full pressure, stemmed the muddy tide on her errand
of retribution.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

TCHEN-VOUN-HIEN.

The Su-chen was about five miles away when the fort first came into view, and for about a quarter
of an hour she steamed ahead without any sign of life or of alarm becoming perceptible in the
vicinity of the pirates' head-quarters.  Frobisher was beginning to hope that fortune was so
far favouring him that perhaps the freebooters might have set out on some buccaneering expedition
inland upon this particular morning, and that he might thus be able to land, seize and destroy
the junks, and occupy the fort during their absence; at the same time preparing an unpleasant
little surprise for the pirates when they returned.

But his hope was doomed to disappointment.  Still keeping his eye glued to the telescope, he
suddenly observed a flash and a puff of white smoke leap out from a corner tower of the fort,
and a few moments later the dull "boom" of a fairly-heavy gun made itself heard.  At the same
moment a tiny ball soared aloft to the head of the flagstaff on the battlements, which ball
presently broke abroad and revealed itself as a large yellow flag of triangular shape, the
apex of the triangle, or fly, being circular instead of ending in a point.  There was also
a design of some description embroidered on the flag in the favourite Chinese blue, but what
the design represented Frobisher could not imagine.  He had never beheld anything like it in
his life, so he turned to Quen-lung, who was, as usual, standing alongside him, and, handing
him the telescope, told him to take a look at the piece of bunting and say what the decoration
on the flag was intended to represent.

Quen-lung obediently placed the eyepiece to his eye, and a few seconds later Frobisher observed
the man turn pale and stagger backward, almost dropping the telescope as he did so.  The man's
eyes were dilated, his face turned the colour of putty; his lower lip had dropped, and his
hands were trembling as though palsied.  He presently recovered himself, however, and the colour
gradually returned to his face.  Frobisher asked what ailed him.

"Oh, sir," he answered, "turn back; turn back before it is too late.  I have read the design
on that flag, and know we can never hope to succeed against those who fight under its folds.
I may not say--no man who knows may tell what those characters signify; but the men who belong
to the Society that flies that ensign have never been conquered, and not a single one among
them has ever been captured, although troops have been sent against them time after time. 
No one has ever returned alive to tell what happened; and we can only guess.  They have sworn
enmity against the whole human race, and their numbers are always being increased by the addition
of men who have wrongs to redress, or believe themselves to have been injured by their fellows;
and it is said that they always put their captives to death in an unspeakably horrible manner,
although no witness has ever returned to tell the tale.  I am sure that, if the admiral had
known who the people were whom he wants to destroy, he would never have sent the expedition
at all."

Frobisher looked the man up and down for a few seconds, as though he thought that the fellow's
mind had given way.  Then he said, sternly:

"What child's talk is this, Quen-lung?  Do I hear a man speaking, or is it a boy, frightened
by a bogy?  What are you dreaming about, that you tell me I had better return without attacking
these pirates?  I am most certainly going to attack them, and my orders are to exterminate
the whole crew of them; so you will very soon be able to disabuse your mind of the belief that
they are invulnerable, as you seem to suppose.  You say that no man has ever escaped them;
but there are two men on board now to contradict that statement--the men we rescued from the
junk.  No, no, my good man; you've been listening to some old woman's tale and allowed it to
frighten you.  You'll see that you will be quite all right as soon as the fighting begins;
you will do your part as well as the best of us."

This he said in the hope of infusing a little backbone into the man, who was shaking like a
leaf; but his words had no effect.  Quen-lung was terrified, there was no doubt of that, and
it seemed to Frobisher that his terror arose not so much, from fear of the pirates themselves
as from some supernatural power which he appeared to attribute to them.

"Well, master," he said resignedly, "if you insist on attacking them, you must; but you will
not win.  I know it; I can see it!"  And without another word he walked to the other side of
the deck and leant over the bulwarks, his chin resting on the palms of his hands, staring moodily
down into the muddy water.

By this time the Su-chen had approached to within a distance of about a mile from the fort
and the small bight in the river, inside which lay the five junks, and Frobisher determined
to try a sighting shot at the building, to accustom the men to a changing range.  He therefore
ordered the men to load the four-inch gun forward, bring it to bear on the square tower from
which the pirates' signal-gun-had been fired, and discharge it when ready.

The gun was loaded and trained, and the gunner laid his finger on the firing key; there was
a deafening report, the boat quivered from truck to keelson, and Frobisher, watching, saw the
shell strike and burst full on the centre of the tower, in which a ragged hole immediately
afterwards appeared.

"Good shot!" he ejaculated, laying down his telescope.  "Let us try a few more of the same
kind, men.  That will soon show those fellows that we mean business.  Where's their invulnerability
now, Quen-lung--eh?"

His words were drowned by a terrific discharge from the fort, the whole eastern front of which
seemed to break out into flame and smoke, while a perfect storm of shot, shell, and small-arm
missiles swept the ship, striking down men, ripping up planking and bulwarks, cutting rigging,
and generally doing a tremendous amount of damage.

From all over the decks came the cries and groans of wounded men, mingled with execrations
from the unwounded who had seen their friends shot down.  Frobisher himself, when he had wiped
the blood out of his eyes which had flowed into them from a small wound on his forehead caused
by a flying splinter, was astounded to observe the amount of damage and the number of casualties
that had resulted from that one discharge.  The pirates had somehow managed to get the range
to a nicety, and every shot had come aboard.  There were no less than nine men killed and wounded,
and the crew of the four-inch gun were all down. Unconquerable or not, the pirates were certainly
marvellously clever gunners, and their weapons must be both heavy and modern.

At the same moment Frobisher observed a movement among the masts of the junks; and presently,
to his amazement, he saw that they were coming out from behind their shelter, evidently with
the intention of fighting him from the river as well as from the shore.  Well, he would make
short work of them, anyway.  They were only made of wood, and a few well-directed shots between
wind and water should send the whole fleet to the bottom in short order.  With this end in
view, he ordered every gun that could be brought to bear to be fired at the junks, meaning
to clear them out of the way before turning his attention entirely to the fort; for he could
see that they were crowded with men, and it might be rather awkward for his ship's crew if
they managed to get alongside. The gunboat's sides were low, and it would be an easy matter
to board her from craft standing as high out of the water as those junks.

The men sprang to their posts with alacrity, and soon the duel was in full swing.  The junks
were, like the fort, very heavily armed--much more heavily than Frobisher had in the least
anticipated--and their accurately-aimed shot came ripping and tearing through the Su-chen's
wooden bulwarks and sides with terrible effect.  In addition to solid shot the pirates were
using shell, and the air was soon full of flying pieces of metal, which struck men down in
every direction.  Only inside the iron casemates did there seem to be any protection from that
deadly storm, and there the Chinese sailors were serving their guns coolly and with excellent
aim.  Shot after shot struck one or other of the junks, and Frobisher could see them actually
reel under the impact; but so far no shot had been lucky enough to strike below or on the water
line, and so sink any of them.

The Su-chen was now, he considered, quite close enough to both fort and junks; he therefore
rang for half-speed, at which the vessel just held her own against the current, the junks themselves
having anchored in order to avoid being swept down under the Su-chen's guns.

So the battle went grimly forward.  Frobisher soon discovered that his big body was being made
a target for small-arm fire, and was shortly obliged to leave the bridge, in order to avoid
being shot.  He therefore took up his post in the forward starboard casemate, from which position
he could observe the enemy and at the same time encourage his crew to greater efforts.  This
he was obliged to do by signs, for at the beginning of the battle Quen-lung had vanished, and
Frobisher was unable to catch a glimpse of him anywhere.  He had doubtless sought the seclusion
of his cabin, in the hope that there he might find safety, oblivious of the fact that the enemy
were using such large and powerful guns that the wooden sides of the gunboat offered little
more protection than he would have obtained out on deck.  Frobisher determined to go and find
him, when he could spare a moment or two from the matter in hand, bring him up on deck, and
thus teach him, by the most practical of methods, how to stand fire without flinching.

At present, however, he had more than enough to occupy him, without thinking of Quen-lung. 

Presented the last groups of dragons out to the road for various items forest. They had their
horses at a walk, as if they ache this retreat. I looked back, rifle in hand, ready to halt
and fire. Others who occupied the barricades were already on their mounts. It rebuilt the squad,
sounded the voices of officers, and trot to the accompaniment of live metal shock went away
in the rear Don Marcelo.

It was beside the barricade, in a deep solitude of silence, as if the world had suddenly depopulated.
Two dogs abandoned by the flight of their masters roamed and sniffed around him, imploring his
protection. They could not find the desired track that land trampled and disfigured by the
passage of thousands of men. A hungry cat spying to the birds that were beginning to invade
this place. With timid peck revuelos waste food expelled by the horses of the dragons. A stray
chicken also appeared to contest their feast to the granujería winged, hitherto hidden in trees and
eaves. The was reborn silent whisper of the leaves, the hum of insects, respiration Soil burning
summer sun, all the sounds of nature, which seemed fearfully contracted under the weight of men
in arms.

No exact Desnoyers realized the passage of time. He thought all this a bad dream. The calm that
surrounded him as he witnessed was unbelievable.

Suddenly he saw something move in the last term of the road, at the top of the hill, there where
white tape played the blue horizon. They were two men on horseback, two soldiers lead that
seemed to have escaped from a toy box. He had brought with him some twins that served to surprise
raids on their properties, and looked. The two riders, gray-green dresses, carried spears and his
helmet was topped by a horizontal plate ... Them!

I could not doubt: he had before him the first Hulan.

Remained motionless for some time, as horizon scanning. Then the masses vegetation that puffed
dark side of the road were out others and others to form a group. The toy soldiers are no longer
marked his silhouette against the blue horizon. The whiteness of
the road fund are now served, rising above their heads.

They moved slowly, like a troop fearing ambushes and examines her surroundings.

The convenience removed as soon as Don Marcelo had ceased to look. It was dangerous to catch
him in that place. But to lose her twins, something extraordinary happened by field of view
of the lens. Within walking distance, as if to touch his hand, saw many men who marched under
the trees on both sides of the road. His surprise was still greater than the French were convinced
that, for all wore his vest. Where did ...? The re-examined without the aid of the twins, now close
to the barricade. They were behind, in a lamentable state, offering a colorful variety of uniforms,
soldiers line, Zouaves, dragons without a horse. And mixed with them, guards and gendarmes belonging
to people who had received the news late withdrawal. Overall, about fifty. Had whole and strong,
others are held with a superhuman effort.

All kept their weapons.

They reached the barricade, continually looking back to monitor, under the trees, the slow
progress of the Hulan. In front of this heterogeneous army officer was gendarmerie old and obese,
with a revolver in his right hand, his mustache bristling with excitement and brilliance murderer
in her blue eyes shadowed by the heaviness of her eyelids. They slid across the barrier of cars without
looking at this fellow curious.

Iban to continue his progress through the town, rang a huge explosion,
shaking the horizon in front of them, making shake houses.

- What
is that? - Asked the officer looking for the first time to Desnoyers.

This provided an explanation: it was the bridge, which had just been
destroyed.

An oath of the chief welcomed the news.

But his confused troops, clustered random encounter, remained indifferent as if he had lost all
touch with reality.

- The same die here than elsewhere - the official continued.

Many of the fugitives with a prompt obedience thanked the decision,
which will deliver the torture of walking.

Most were glad they cut blasting step. Were standing instinctively covered places of the barricade.
Others were introduced in a abandoned houses whose doors had violated the dragons to use upstairs.
Everyone seemed pleased to be able to rest while fighting. The officer was a another group to
communicate their orders. They were not to fire until he give the speech.

Don Marcelo witnessed such arrangements with the immobility of surprise.

Been so rapid onset and unheard of stragglers still imagined to be
dreaming.

Could not be a danger in this situation unreal was all a lie. He went into place without understanding
the lieutenant, ordering him to escape with harsh words.

Paisano stubborn! ...

The echo of the explosion had filled the road riders. Coming from every angle, joining the
primitive group. The Hulan galloped with the certainty that the town was abandoned.

- Fire! ...

Desnoyers was enveloped in a cloud of crackling, as if the wooden
stumps all trees had before his eyes.

The squad stopped abruptly violent.

Several men rolled on the ground. Some were built to jump out of the way, bending, in order to
become less visible. Other remained lying on his back or face down,
arms in front.

Horses without Rider began a mad gallop through the fields, with the reins to the sled, spurred by
loose brackets.

And after the hard swing that made him suffer shock and death, scattered, disappearing almost instantly
absorbed by the trees.

IV

Next to the sacred grove

Argensola had a new job more exciting than
to point to the location on the map of hosts.

- I do now to continue
to taube - said to his friends -.

We present four to five, with timeliness of a right person who comes to tea.

Every afternoon, at the hour mentioned, a German plane flew over Paris, dropping bombs. The intimidation
did not produce terror: people accepted the visit as a special show and interesting. In vain
flyers dropped on the city with ironic German flag messages realizing the retreating army defeats
and failures of the offensive Russian. Lies, all lies! In vain dropping bombs, destroying and
killing dormers wounding or old, women and children. "Ah, brigands!" The crowd shook his fist the
evil mosquito, barely visible to two thousand feet high, and after this relief eyes followed
him from street to street or are immobilized in their seats to watch
developments.

A viewer of the most punctual was Argensola. At four was in the Place de la Concorde face up
and eyes open, next to other people linked to him by friendly companion relationships. They
were like the subscribers to the same theater, in force seen end up being friends. "Will he come?
... Do not come today? "Women seemed the most vehement. Some had flushed and panting by the
haste, fearing she had come late to the show ... A huge shout: "It's coming! ... There he is!
" Thousands of hands indicated a point on the horizon vague. Dragged on the faces of twins
and glasses; sellers Popular items offered all kinds of optical ...
And for an hour was developing exciting spectacle of aerial hunting,
noisy and useless.

The insect tries to put the Eiffel Tower, and the base of this arose booms, while its various platforms
fierce strumming spitting machine guns. When turning on the city musketry sounded on the roof and bottom
of streets. All pulled: the neighbors who had a gun in your home, soldiers on duty, British and Belgian
soldiers visiting Paris.

They knew that their shots were useless, but threw for the sake of harassing the enemy even if
only with the intention, waiting that chance, in one of his whims, perform a miracle. But the only
miracle was not shooters killed one another with this rash and fruitless fire. Even so, some
passersby wounded by bullets falling unknown origin.

Argensola going from street to street uproar following the enemy bird, trying to guess where their
shells were falling, wanting to be among the first that arrived in front of the house bombed
emboldened by downloads that answered from below. Not having him as a rifle the British or
those khaki-clad Belgian barracks cap and a tassel on the front! ... Finally, the Tauber, tired
of developments, disappeared. "See you tomorrow - I thought the Spanish -. The morning is perhaps
more interesting. "

The hours between geographic observations and contemplations of used air to roam around the seasons - especially
the Quai d'Orsay - the crowd watching of passengers who escaped from Paris. The sudden vision of the
truth - after illusions that the government had created optimism parts - the certainty that
the Germans were next, when a week before the imagined many in full defeat, the flying Taubes
on Paris, the mysterious threat of Zeppelins, getting crazy part of the neighborhood. Stations,
military guarded, admitting only those who had purchased a ticket advance. Some waited for days
to receive it turn out. The more eager to set off on foot, hoping
sooner be out of town.

Black are the roads with the crowds made their way through them, all in the same direction. Iban
south by car, cab, a gardener in carts, on foot.

This leakage Argensola gazed calmly. He was of those who stayed. Had admired many men because
they witnessed the siege of Paris in 1870. Now his luck gave him
the witness of a historical drama perhaps more interesting.

What might have in the future! ... But was bothered by the distraction and indifference of
his audience present. Returned to study pleased with the news that he was the bearer, to communicate
Descoyers feverish, and this I listened as if he could hear. The night I told him that the government,
Chambers, the diplomatic corps and to the artists of the Comedie Francaise were coming to those
hours in special trains to Bordeaux, his companion answered with a shrug.

Others were their concerns.

In the morning he had received a letter from Margaret: Two simple lines drawn in haste. Was leaving,
accompanied immediately went to her mother. Goodbye ... And nothing else. The panic had forgotten
many affections, cut long-term relationships, but she was superior in character to these inconsistencies
from anxiety to flee. July saw something disturbing in its brevity. Why did not indicate the
place where he was going? ...

In the afternoon took a dare that she had always forbidden. He entered the house Margaret lived,
speaking at length with the goalkeeper to acquire news.

The good woman expansion could thus give his loquacity, abruptly
cut off by the flight of tenants and servitude.

The lady on the main floor - the mother of Margaret - had been the last to leave the house,
notwithstanding that he was sick since the departure of his son. Had left the day before, without
saying where they went. All I knew was that they had taken the train
Orsay station.

They fled to the South, like all rich.

And extended his revelations with the vague news that the daughter was very impressed by reports
he had received from the war front. A family member was wounded. Maybe it was the brother,
but the concierge did not know. With so many innovations, surprises and impressions, learn difficult
things. She also had her man in the army and he concern's business.

"Where is he? --- Was asked in July during the day -. Why do you want to ignore his whereabouts
?...»

When on the night he was informed his comrade's journey rulers with all the mystery of a story
that was not yet public, merely to answer, after thoughtful silence:

-
They do well ... I will go out tomorrow if I can also.

Why stay in Paris? His family was away. His father - according to the findings Argensola - also
was gone, without saying where. With the mysterious flight of Margarita left alone in a loneliness
that inspired him remorse.

That afternoon, walking along the boulevards, had experienced something
with a friend in years, a fellow member of the Circle of fencing frequented
by him.

It was the first one was from the beginning of the war, and together they reviewed all colleagues
incorporated into army. Desnoyers questions were answered by the old. "John Doe? ... was Lorena
and was wounded in a hospital in the South. Another friend? ... killed in the Vosges. Other?
... disappeared in Charleroi. And so the heroic and funereal parade. Most were still living,
doing a great job. Other foreign partners, young Poles, British residents Paris Americans in
the southern republics, had just registered as volunteers.

The Circle should be proud of these young people who exercised in
their weapons during peace: all were in the front exposing her existence
... And Desnoyers away their sight, as if afraid guess in the eyes
of his friend a wry and questions.

Why not he walked, like the others, to defend the land they lived? ...

- Tomorrow I'll go - repeated in July, overshadowed by this recall.

But going to the South, like all fleeing the war. The next morning, Argensola was responsible
for getting a rail ticket to Bordeaux. The value of money had increased significantly. Fifty francs
delivered on time performed the miracle to provide it with a numbered piece of cardboard, represented
the conquest of which, for many, days Integer expected.

- It's for today - he said to his comrade -. You go on the train tonight.

The luggage did not require extensive preparations. Trains refused to support other packages those
carrying passengers by hand. Argensola refused to accept the donation of July, which wanted from
him all his money. Heroes need very little, and the painter of souls was encouraged by a heroic
resolution. The brief remarks to charge Gallieni the defense of Paris was hers. Thought continued
until the last effort, as the general drive.

- Let them come! - Said with a tragic -. I find on my site! ...

Your site was the study. I wanted to see things close for generations to come. Would hold, with their
supplies of food and wine. Furthermore, had the project - and his companion disappear - to bring
to live with him to some friends who wandered in search a food problem and felt fear in the
solitude of their homes. The danger approaches to good people and
add a new attraction to the pleasures of the community.

The loving expansions of the prisoners of Terror, when they expected from one moment to another
being conducted to the guillotine, revived in his memory. Tossed off the dregs of life, as we
die! ... The study of the rue de la Pompe was going to attend the same parties crazy and desperate
stranded ship with supplies plentiful.

Desnoyers left the Orsay station in a first class compartment. Mentally praised good order with which
the authority had arranged everything. Each passenger had his seat. But at the Austerlitz station
a stampede attacked the train. The doors were opened as if they were to break, packages and
children came through the windows as well as missiles. People are pushed to the roughness of
a crowd fleeing a fire. In space reserved for eight people were installed fourteen, the corridors
are blocked forever with lots of luggage, which served to new passenger seat. Had disappeared
social distance. The villagers invaded preferably luxury cars, believing find them more space.
Those with first-class ticket went in search of worst cars in the vain hope of traveling well
off. On side roads waiting one day before your departure time long trains made up of cattle cars.
Stalls trailers were full of people sitting on the wooden floor or on chairs brought from
home. Each train was a camp that wanted to start, and while he still, a layer of greasy paper
and fruit peels was forming over it.

The attackers, when pushed, is tolerated and condoned fraternally. "In war as in war, "they said as
a final excuse. And each one clutching a neighbor to snatch a inch seat, to introduce their small baggage
hanging over packages people with the most improbable balances. Desnoyers was gradually losing
its advantages of first occupancy. He inspired pity these poor people who had waited the train
at four in the morning at eight o'clock in the evening. Women wailed in exhaustion, right in the corridor,
looking fierce envy those who occupied a seat. Children cried a hungry goat bleating. July finally
give way, dividing between the needy and improvident all foods that had provided Argensola. The
restaurants seemed stations looted. During the long wait the train, only military were on the platforms,
soldiers running to hear the call of the trumpet to return to take
his place in the strings of cars going up and rose to Paris.

In sidings, rail of war long hoped that the route is free to continue travel. Cuirassiers,
wearing a yellow vest on his chest of steel, were sitting with legs hanging on the doors of wagons
stables, inside which they neighing. On the gray platforms harmonic alignment. The slender throats
75 pointed to the top like telescopes.

He spent the night in the corridor, sitting on the edge of a suitcase, watching others slept
the brutalization of fatigue and excitement.

It was a cruel and endless night of shock, clatter cut by snoring and pauses. At each station,
the trumpets sounded hastily as if the enemy was near. The soldiers from the South ran to
their jobs, and a new wave of men were dragged along the rails to
Paris.

They seemed happy and eager to arrive early to the places of slaughter. Many appear to believe lamented
late. Julio, looking out a window, heard the screams and dialogue on these platforms impregnated
with a pungent odor of men and mules. All showed an unshakable confidence. "The Boches! ... Numerous,
with big guns, with many guns ... but there was no rather than the
bayonet charge and fled like rabbits.

"

The faith of those who went to meet death in contrast to the panic and doubt the fleeing Paris.
An old gentleman and decorated, kind of official retirement was Desnoyers to questions when the
train resumed its march. "Do you think that will come to Tours?" Before receiving a reply
fell asleep. Stupefying sleep wore her down the aisle lead foot.
Then the old man woke up suddenly.

"Do you think that will come to Bordeaux ?...» And their desire not to stop until you reach your
family will absolutely safe shelter did accept vague answers as oracles.

At dawn they saw the country's territorial guarding the tracks. They were armed with rifles
old, wore a red kepi as the only distinctive military. They kept going in the direction opposed
the military trains.

In the Bordeaux train station, the civil crowd, struggling to get out or for assaulting new
cars, mingled with the troops. The trumpets sounded ceaselessly to bring the soldiers. Many
were men of color, indigenous handles large gray pants and a red
cap on black or tan face.

North continued to the tight roll of the armed masses.

Desnoyers saw a train of wounded from the fighting in Flanders and Lorraine. Uniforms cooling
of dirt fatigued with the whiteness of the bandages that held members sore or broken heads
defended. All seemed to smile with their mouths livid and feverish eyes to the first land of the
south that showed through the morning mist, crowned sun, covered with the royal robe of its branches.
Northern men spread their hands to the fruits that were offered for women, picking grapes with
the sweet delight of the country.

Spent four days in Bordeaux, dazed and disoriented by the agitation
of a provincial town suddenly converted into capital. The hotels were
full, many characters were content with a domestic room. The coffee
did not keep an open chair, the sidewalks seemed repel this extraordinary
crowd. The Head of State was installed in the prefecture ministries
were established in schools and museums, two theaters were enabled
future meetings of the Senate and the House popular. July found a
seedy hotel and equivocal at the end of the street by passers-by constantly
damp. A cherub adorned the glass door. In his room, the mirror was
recorded women's names, phrases intranscribibles, in memory of lodging
an hour ... And still some ladies Paris, engaged in seeking an accommodation,
envied so fortunate.

His findings proved futile. The friends who
found the fugitive mob think of their own fate. Only knew about the
incidents of installation; after hearing the news repeated to the
ministers, with whom he lived familiarly; mentioned with a mysterious
air of the great battle that had begun to develop from near Paris
to Verdun. A disciple of its glory, who kept the old style in her
nurse's uniform, he gave vague reports. "" The little Madame Laurier?
... He remembered have heard someone who lived nearby ... Maybe in
Biarritz. "No longer needed for July resume their journey. A Biarritz!

The
first person I met upon arrival was Chichi. Population declared uninhabitable
by rich Spanish families who vacationed there: "They are mostly small
holes. I spend fighting there. I will end by living alone. "Then he
found his mother, hugs and tears.  This was no doubt the jetty
where the pirates unloaded the loot stolen from captured prizes, and whence they took aboard
their own stores of ammunition, provisions, and water.  There was quite a number of bamboo
and thatch huts scattered about at the shore end of the jetty--evidently store-houses--while
a stream of flashing, sparkling, crystal-clear water, tumbling down a narrow gully and cutting
a tiny channel for itself across the sand to the river, was without doubt the source of the
pirates' water supply.

Frobisher noticed that at the end of the jetty a number of the men from the fort had collected,
apparently awaiting the arrival of their comrades of the maritime department; and as the junk
came alongside, these individuals clambered aboard, and a vociferous conversation ensued, during
which fierce glances and threatening gestures were directed toward the Englishman, who knew
instinctively that the new arrivals were strongly urging that he should be put to death, as
some sort of a sacrifice to the memory of the dead pirates, in whose destruction he had played
so large a part.  Indeed, it seemed at one moment as though he were to be slaughtered as he
stood there, bound and helpless; for the new-comers surged forward, knives and swords gleaming
in their hands, pushing the junk's crew backward until the whole crowd had gathered in a circle,
with Frobisher in the centre.  Frobisher expected death at any moment, and he was at a loss
to understand why the junk's men seemed reluctant to let the others have their way, seeing
that they themselves had been eager enough to put an end to him but a short time previously.
Presently he noticed that Ah-fu had disappeared from the deck, and guessed that the men were
merely waiting for him to return before allowing the people from the fort to have their way.

Presently the pirate chief reappeared, and was immediately surrounded by an eager, gesticulating
crowd, who pointed to Frobisher and handled their blades in sanguinary anticipation.  But,
holding up his hand for silence, Ah-fu said a few words to his followers which produced an
immediate and remarkable effect.  Sheathing their weapons, they broke out into shouts of laughter,
and began to discuss with one another the details of what they evidently considered an excellent
joke; and Frobisher, knowing something of the Chinese pirates' idea of amusement, felt that
he would infinitely have preferred being killed on the spot to being kept alive to provide
sport for these barbarians.  Quen-lung had certainly been right when he had prophesied disaster
as the result of attacking the "Unconquerable"--as Frobisher afterwards found was indeed the
name of the sect to which the pirates belonged--although what reason the man had had for being
so sure, the young Englishman was utterly unable to guess.

The matter having evidently been settled entirely to the pirates' satisfaction, Frobisher's
legs were unbound, so that he could walk, and, closely guarded by two men carrying long, broad-bladed
knives, he was led down the sloping gangway to the wharf, followed by the rest of the crowd
talking and laughing hilariously.  Thence he was taken up the hill, a distance of a quarter
of a mile, to the fort.

On reaching his destination he was amazed to note the enormous strength of the building, and
the consequently small amount of damage that had been done by the fire of the gunboat.  With
the exception of the hole in the tower, and a few splintered and starred "splashings" where
the missiles had struck, very little actual injury seemed to have been inflicted, notwithstanding
the excellent practice of the Su-chen's gunners.  The walls, he decided, must be enormously
thick, thicker even than those of the fortress of Asan, which were stout enough to withstand
anything less than heavy gun fire.

He was not permitted to examine the appearance of the building very closely, for, observing
his hesitation, the two guards prodded him vindictively with the points of their knives, and
pushed him before them through the massive stone gateway, which was protected by a strong portcullis
at either end, as well as an iron double door between, strong enough to turn rifle bullets.
Frobisher now realised that even if he had succeeded in sinking all the junks and reaching
the gate of the fort his difficulties would only have begun, and that his plan of blowing in
the gates with powder would have been completely frustrated by the existence of the outer portcullis.
These men certainly knew how to protect themselves, and were determined not to be captured
if human ingenuity could prevent it.

Once inside, Frobisher found himself in a spacious courtyard, round which the fort was built.
The windows of the different chambers looked inward, thus allowing the outer walls to be entirely
used for gun embrasures, rifle loopholes, and even arrow-slits, so varied were the weapons
to be found in this robber stronghold.

Still in charge of the two guards, at a command from Ah-fu the prisoner was marched through
a doorway in the wall exactly opposite the main gateway, and was hurried through corridor after
corridor--all of them only dimly lighted by small openings in the outer wall--until he became
utterly confused and lost even the remotest idea of his bearings.  After a walk of about five
minutes the guards halted before an iron-bound door, which, upon being opened, disclosed a
flight of steps.  Down these steps he was hurried, finding himself, when at the bottom, at
the entrance to another long passage, which looked as though it had been hewn out of the solid
sandstone, for there were no joints visible in its walls.

Removing a lantern from a hook, one of the men lighted it, and the journey was continued for
quite ten minutes in a perfectly straight line, thus confirming Frobisher's impression that
he was in an underground passage leading from the fort to some other structure at a considerable
distance, probably constructed to afford a means of escape in the extremely unlikely event
of the fort ever being captured.  At the far end of this passage there were several iron-bound
doors--a circumstance which Frobisher noted for future reference; and it was through one of
the middle ones that he was conducted, arriving at once at the foot of another flight of stairs,
similar to those at the other end, and finally at a large, square, stone cell, lighted on three
sides by very small windows, high up in the walls--a most dismal-looking prison.  There was
a low plank bench covered with straw and presumably intended for a bed, two stools, and a bucket,
these few articles constituting the entire contents of the chamber.

Frobisher's arms were now unbound, and he was thrust inside, the guards holding themselves
in readiness to frustrate any attempt at escape.  But the prisoner was by this time far too
stiff and numb after the constriction of the ropes to make any such attempt; it was as much
as he could achieve to stagger to the apology for a bed, upon which he flung himself at full
length.  He was utterly exhausted, and his body had scarcely touched the straw before he was
fast asleep, in which condition he remained for nearly twenty-four hours.

When he awoke he found that a coarse meal had been left for him, while the bucket had been
filled with water; so he made a hearty meal, and then proceeded to examine his cell by the
light of the declining sun. His search, however, was fruitless: there was nothing out of which
he might construct a key, as he had done at Asan; the windows were scarcely six inches square;
in short, escape appeared an impossibility.

And now many days dragged out their slow length in dreary monotony; day after day his custodians
brought him a supply of food; but, strangely enough, the time passed without his being subjected
to indignity and torment for the amusement of the pirates, as he had fully expected might be
the case.  Possibly they were absent on some foray, and had postponed their entertainment until
their return.  Whatever might be the reason, however, the days slid past, without molestation
to him, and lengthened into weeks, until, by the notches which he scored every morning on the
edge of his bed, Frobisher found that he had been just thirteen weeks in confinement.  Thirteen
weeks!--And, so far as he could tell, no attempt had been made by the Chinese authorities to
rescue him or obtain his release; at any rate, there had been no sounds of fighting, no report
of guns from the river; and he was being slowly forced to the conclusion that his very existence
had been forgotten, or else that it was thought not worth while to throw away any more valuable
Chinese lives in order to effect the rescue of so unimportant a personage as an English mercenary.

Then, one morning, when Frobisher awoke and commenced to dress--for he had made a practice
of undressing at night, that he might feel the cleaner and more refreshed next day--he discovered,
to his astonishment, that his boots had mysteriously disappeared during the night.  He searched
everywhere for them, but they were nowhere to be found.  For whatever reason--and he puzzled
himself to think of a satisfactory one-- his foot-gear was undoubtedly missing, and there was
an end of the matter.  The curious happening vexed him considerably.  It seemed such an idiotic
trick to play; and the more he thought about the matter the more convinced he became that this
joke, or whatever it was intended to be, had a deeper significance than he had at first imagined.

Since his arrival in China he had contrived to acquire a fragmentary knowledge of the language,
and by its means he endeavoured to ascertain from the man who nightly brought him food the
reason for the apparently senseless prank; but the fellow either could not or would not understand,
and Frobisher was obliged to give up the attempt.

The jailer had hitherto been in the habit of closing the iron-bound door behind him with a
slam, rattling the lock after him to make sure that it was fastened, when he brought the prisoner's
food; and this circumstance had come to be so expected by Frobisher that when, on the evening
of the day on which his boots had disappeared, the man simply pulled the door to gently behind
him and went off about his business without even trying the lock, the omission immediately
attracted the Englishman's attention.

The man had never before been so careless, and Frobisher could not decide whether he had been
thinking of something else at the moment, and had succumbed to an attack of absent-mindedness,
or whether he had suddenly recollected something that he had forgotten, and intended to pay
another visit to the cell.  Whichever it might be, Frobisher believed he saw in the circumstance
a possibility of escape of which he instantly determined to avail himself.

With stealthy footsteps he crept across the stone-flagged floor, scarcely daring to breathe
lest his movements should attract some inconvenient person's attention.  He had, it is true,
heard the jailer walk away down the corridor; but perhaps, playing some stupid joke, the man
had crept back noiselessly, and was even now outside the door, listening and chuckling to himself
at the prisoner's foolishness in imagining that he would be careless enough to go away leaving
the door unfastened.  The mere idea caused the beads of sweat to start out on Frobisher's forehead;
disappointment would be too terrible!

But he swiftly pulled himself together, and, with fingers that trembled in spite of himself,
he touched the old-fashioned latch and slowly, very slowly, raised it, pulling the door gently
toward him as he did so.

The door opened, and, scarcely daring to credit his senses, Frobisher pulled it still wider
open, and a moment later was able to look out into the corridor.  There was an antiquated oil
lantern hanging at the foot of the stone stairway, placed there for the jailer's convenience,
and by its light the prisoner was able to see that the corridor was empty. Then the incident
of the door was no trick, after all, and the man had really suffered a lapse of memory.  Twenty-four
hours would elapse before he returned, and Frobisher's absence was discovered, and the latter
hoped by that time to be far away, if he could but find some mode of escaping undetected from
the building.  The first and most serious obstacle in the way, the cell door, was overcome;
now to find whether his luck would still hold, and if he could find another unguarded gate
leading to freedom.

First of all, however, he must have some covering for his feet.  He knew that he could not
walk far barefooted over rough ground; and, if pursued under such circumstances, capture would
be certain and speedy.  He therefore removed his shirt and undervest, and tearing them into
strips, he swathed the wrappings round his feet somewhat after the manner followed by the Spanish
mountaineers.  This done, he next had to ascertain whether the remaining doors between himself
and freedom were locked or unlocked.

The first door he came to was the one at the foot of the stairs, and, as might have been expected,
this was closed; but it was not locked.  The pirates had clearly pinned their faith on the
stanchness of the cell door.  Close to this, in the opposite wall of the passage, were the
other doors which Frobisher had observed when being conducted to his prison; and it was through
one of these that he must pass if he was to escape at all.  The passage itself, he remembered,
simply communicated with the main building of the fort, and to travel by that path was tantamount
to running into the arms of his captors.

With infinite care he tried the latch of the door on the left.  It was locked.

Then he turned the handle of the door on the right.  That also was locked; and his heart sank
at the thought of the tremendous amount of labour that would be needed to overcome this obstacle--if
it were possible to overcome it at all, of which he was more than doubtful.

While he was considering what to do first, his eye caught a faint glimmer of light shining
on something on the wall, and he eagerly stretched out his hand to it.  As he touched it his
heart leaped, for the object was a key--obviously the key of one, or both, of the doors.

He fitted it cautiously into the lock of the right-hand door and turned it gently, and with
a soft click the wards fell back and the door jarred slightly open.

Without wasting a moment, Frobisher pulled it wide and stepped outside, exulting in his new-found
liberty.  But, alas! his exultation was only momentary.  An instant later he realised the cruel
hoax that had been played on him, for extending over a distance of many yards in every direction
was a sort of pavement of broken glass, pointed and keen-edged as a forest of razors.  The
glass had been so firmly fixed in the ground that it was impossible to remove it; and Frobisher
instantly realised that his escape that way was most effectually barred.  Even with strong
boots on, it would have been a difficult enough matter to traverse that glass-strewn patch
without cutting one's feet to pieces; and with feet merely protected by thin wrappings of wool
and linen, the thing was an impossibility.

This, then, was the meaning of the removal of his boots; and, as he realised the sardonic cruelty
of the men who could invent such a device for tormenting a prisoner, his heart almost failed
him.  It seemed as though he were doomed to remain for ever immured in this horrible place.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

PURSUED BY BLOODHOUNDS.

With a smothered ejaculation of bitter disappointment Frobisher recoiled a few steps in sheer
despair, bringing up rather sharply against the iron-plated door through which he had just
emerged; and the next instant he realised that he was doubly trapped.  Escape was cut off in
front of him by that broken glass, and he had been in such haste to get away from his prison
that he had never thought of removing the key from the inside of the door, or of taking precautions
to prevent the door from closing behind him and cutting off his retreat, as it had done.

Retreat, after he was once clear of the walls, had naturally never entered his mind.  But now
he would have been glad enough to have been able to return to his cell unobserved.  It would
be intensely humiliating to be obliged to wait there, in the small space between the door and
the glass-sown path, until his jailer arrived, some twenty-four hours later, to release him.
Yet there seemed to be no alternative.

How careless, how criminally foolish he had been to allow himself to be trapped by so transparent
a device! thought Frobisher.  He ought to have suspected a trap directly he discovered that
his boots had been removed, and he might have known that such jailers as he was dealing with
do not leave cell doors unlatched by accident, or leave keys to open other doors hanging on
walls in conspicuous places, just where an escaping prisoner would be most likely to see them.
How those pirates would laugh and jeer at him on the morrow, when they arrived and found him
there, shivering with the bitter cold of night in that climate, at that time of year!  The
mere thought of such humiliation caused Frobisher to grit his teeth with anger, and he had
almost made up his mind to chance a quick dash across that cruel barrier, trusting that he
would not injure himself so severely as to make escape absolutely impossible, when something
occurred which caused him quickly to change his mind, and made him shrink back into the shadow
of the door, pressing himself up into one of the corners, to avoid observation and consequent
discovery, if possible.

He had caught sight of the figure of a Chinaman emerging from the shadow of the jungle which
surrounded the fort on its landward side.  The man's figure stood out plain and clear-cut in
the moonlight, which was so bright that Frobisher could easily distinguish his every movement,
could even see how the man was dressed; and he wondered what the fellow could be doing there
at that time of night.

In that part of northern China, especially at that season, men do not wander about in the jungle
at night, or indeed at any other time, if they can help it, having a very natural objection
to being caught and eaten by prowling, hungry tigers; and it was therefore not a little strange
that this man should arrive at the fort by that way, particularly as it could be reached much
more easily by the road which the pirates had constructed for their own convenience.  It would
almost appear as though the man bad come by this route in order to avoid the pirates' observation;
and the longer Frobisher considered the matter, the more certain did he become that this was
actually the case, and the more he wondered what the reason might be.

The man had only stood in full view for a few brief seconds, just long enough to convince the
Englishman that he was real, and not a figment of his own heated imagination.  Then he had
stepped back quickly into the shadow of the jungle, crouching down beside a clump of bamboo,
where he was so well concealed from observation that Frobisher could just distinguish the outline
of his stooping body.  Indeed, had he not kept his eyes on the man the whole time, it would
have been impossible to detect his hiding-place, so well did the colour of his clothing blend
with the vegetation which formed his background.

The Englishman's heart began to beat with excitement and hope, for a thousand possibilities
at once presented themselves to him.  It was morally certain that the hiding man could have
no connection with the pirates, or he would have come forward boldly and demanded admittance;
and if not a friend of, or connected with the outlaws, he must necessarily be opposed to them.
Ah! if it were only possible to attract the man's attention without also attracting that of
the pirates, escape should be a simple matter, thought Frobisher.  He was already practically
as good as outside the walls, and all that was necessary was that something should be laid
down on the top of the glass over which he could walk without cutting his feet, and the thing
was done; he could be miles beyond the possibility of pursuit before morning broke, if only
the preliminaries could be put in hand immediately.

It did not take him long to decide that he would make the attempt to attract the man's attention.
If the latter were a friend, and the attempt were crowned with success, all would be well,
and he would be free within an hour; while if the man should after all prove to be an enemy--well,
he might as well be discovered and taken back to prison now, as wait all night in the cold.
One thing was quite certain-- without outside assistance escape was impossible; so he decided
to put his fortune to the test and risk his freedom, if not his life, upon the turn of the die.

With this idea, he drew his handkerchief from his pocket and was about to step forward and
wave it, when he saw a movement among the clump of bamboo, and the next instant the Chinaman
rose to his feet and ran like a deer toward the very part of the fort in which Frobisher's
cell was situated.  He ran noiselessly, on his toes, and bent almost double in the effort to
make himself as small as possible.  And he did not slacken speed until he had reached the walls
of the fort, where he again crouched down in the shadow, almost directly under the window of
Frobisher's cell, about twenty yards away from the spot where the Englishman himself was concealed.

The latter, in the face of this new move, determined to watch a few minutes longer before revealing
himself, and kept his eyes on the crouching figure with the greatest interest.  Was the man
going to prove friend or foe, rescuer or would-be assassin?  Scarcely the latter, the Englishman
thought, for there seemed something strangely familiar in the man's movements and in his whole
appearance; and Frobisher experienced the sensation of having met, or seen, this man somewhere
before, though under what circumstances he could not for the life of him recall.  He was something
of the same build as Ling; but Ling, he knew, was dead, for he had seen the man's body. The instinct of fatherhood, which he had spoken many times as something infallible not advised
on this occasion. How could I admit to July in this sergeant whose feet was two balls of wet
earth, with a coat faded and frayed edges, full mud up to his shoulders, smelling of damp
cloth and a belt? ... After the first embrace, threw his head back and contemplate, not discard
it. Her pallor had become brown a tan. He wore his beard, a black beard and curly. Don Marcelo was
agreed his stepfather. The centaur Madariaga undoubtedly recognize this hardened warrior for
life outdoors. He regretted the first time they look dirty and tired, then returned to find most
beautiful, interesting that in times of worldly glory.

- What you need ... What do you want?

His voice trembling with tenderness.

He spoke to the toast and strong fighter with the same intonation
I used twenty years earlier, when he stopped at the windows of Buenos
Aires wearing to a child's hand.

- You want money?

...

He had brought a significant amount to give to your child.

But the military made a gesture indifference, as if it offered a toy.

Never been as rich as when present. I had a lot of money in Paris and did not know what to
do about it: anything served.

- Send me cigarettes ... They are for me and the Comrades.

Received large packages full of food his mother elect from snuff, clothes. But he kept nothing,
everything was little to attend to their partners, children from
poor families or they were alone in the world.

His bounty had spread from his group to the company and from there
to the whole battalion.

Don Marcelo guessed popularity in looks nice and smiles of the soldiers who passed by them.
Was the generous son of a millionaire.

And this popularity also patted unto him to circulate the news that had come the father of Sergeant
Desnoyers, a tycoon who possessed fabulous wealth on the other side
of the sea.

- I guess your wishes - continued the old man.

And looked around the bags brought from the car along the winding road underground.

All praised his son's exploits and amplified by Argensola now for your parade memory. He was
the hero in their eyes.

- Are you happy? ... Do not you regret your decision? ...

- Yes, I'm happy, Dad ... very happy.

July spoke without boasting, modestly. His life was hard, but equal to that of millions of men. In
his section, which only consisted of some dozens of soldiers, he was superior to for intelligence, for
his studies, by their nature.

And all cheerfully circumvented the ordeal, experiencing the satisfaction
of accomplishment.

In addition, the common danger in served to develop the noblest virtues of men. Never in peacetime
had now known as what was the fellowship. What sacrifices had seen so beautiful!

- When this is over, the men will be better ... more generous. Those who are alive can do great things.

Yes,
I was happy.

For the first time savoring the enjoyment to be considered useful, the conviction that was
used to something, that his way in the world would not be fruitless. He remembered Desnoyers with pity
that he did not know how to fill the emptiness of their existence and stuffing with all sorts
of frivolities. Now had obligations absorbed all his forces collaborated
in shaping the future, was a man.

- I'm happy - he repeated.

The father thought.

But in a corner of his eye open imagined seeing something painful,
a reminder perhaps the last that remained between the emotions of
this.

Crossed his memory gentle figure of Mrs. Laurier.

She guessed that her son still remember her. "We are not allowed !...» fetch The rigid father
last year was watched with amazement as mentally formulate this desire immoral.

They spent a quarter of an hour without letting go of hands, gazing
into the eyes.

July asked his mother and Chichi. Received letters from them often, but this was not enough
to his curiosity. River to meet the wide and abundant life Argensola.

This news came that he was glad a world that was only a hundred miles in a straight line,
but so far ... So far!

Suddenly the father noticed that he listened with less attention. His senses, sharpened by a life
Alarms and traps, they seemed to depart from there, attracted by
the shooting.

They were not shooting isolated. Joined, forming a continuous crackles.

Appeared the senator, who had strayed to the father and son speak more freely.

- We kicked out of here, my friend. We do not have luck on our visits.

And no soldiers passed.

All had come to take their places, as in a ship prepared to fight. Julio took his gun, he had left against
the slope. At the same moment jumped a little dust over the head of his father formed a small
hole in the ground.

- Soon, far away - pushing said Don Marcelo.

Inside a trench cover was the bounce, short, nervous, "Bye, Dad."
A kiss, and turned his back.

Wanted to run as soon as next to yours.

The fire had spread throughout the line. The soldiers fired calmly, as if they meet an ordinary
function. It was a battle that came every day, not knowing certainly who had initiated, as a
consequence of the location of two armed masses to short distance, face to face. The battalion commander
to his visitors left fearing a coup attempt attack.

Again the officer lead them himself at the head of the line and began to retrace tortuous, slippery
path.

Mr. Desnoyers marched with his head down, enraged by the intervention of the enemy he had cut his
happiness.

Before his eyes fluttered July look, his beard black and curly, it was for him most novelty of
the trip. She heard his deep voice of a man who has found a new meaning to life.

- I'm happy, Dad ... I'm happy.

The shooting, more and more distant, gave him a painful concern. Then she felt an instinctive
faith, absurd, very firm. He saw his son beautiful and immortal as a god. He had a that their
lives would all hazards untouched. That die other was natural, but Julio! ...

As I walked away from him, the hope seemed to sing in your ear.

And like an echo its pleasing statements, the father repeated mentally:

-
No one kills him.

I announced by the heart, which never deceives me ... No one will mate!

IV

No one will kill

Four months later, Don Marcelo confidence suffered a hard blow. Julio was injured. But at the same
time he received the news with an unfortunate delay, Lacour reassured him with their inquiries
at the Ministry of War. The sergeant was lieutenant Desnoyers, his wound was almost healed, thanks
to the efforts of the Senator would come to spend a fortnight nursing home next to his family.

-
A brave, my friend - ended by saying the character -. I read what they say about him his heads.
Leading his platoon attacked a German company, killed by his hand to the captain made I do not
know how many feats ... Have given the Military Medal, have made
it official ... A true hero.

And the father, weeping with emotion, shaking his head shakily, increasingly aged and more enthusiastic.
He regretted his lack of faith in the early stages, when the news
the wound.

Most had thought that his son could die. An absurd!

... In July there was none kill him: she said her heart.

Saw him come home one day, shouting and spasms of women.

Poor Dona Luisa cried hugging him, clinging to his neck with gasps of excitement. Chichi looked
at him serious and reflective, placing half of his thinking on the newcomer, while the rest
flying away in search of another fighter. The maids were played the opening coppery a curtain,
through this hole their prying eyes of antelope.

The father admired the small piece of gold in the cuffs of gray skirts capotón fastened behind,
looking after the dark blue hull edge planes taken by French to trench warfare. The traditional
kepi had disappeared. A graceful cap, similar to the musketeers of Spanish troops, shading
the face of July. Also noticed in his beard short and well kept, other than that he had seen
in the trenches. He was clean and neat for his recent discharge.

- Is not it true that I think? - Said the old man proudly.

Doña Luisa protested, with mothers showing intransigence on similarities.

- It has always been your spitting image.

To see him healthy and happy, the family experienced a sudden restlessness. Wished to examine
your wound to believe that there was no danger.

- If there is nothing! - Protested the sergeant -. A shot in the shoulder. Doctors feared who
lost his left arm, but everything has been well ... No need to remember.

Chichi revised to July with eyes, from head to foot, discovering the details immediately of military
chic. The coat was shaved, dirty, scratched leggings, smelling cloth sweat, leather, strong
to snuff, but in a doll wearing a platinum watch and the other subject identity medal with
a gold chain. I had always admired his brother for innate good taste, and put it in his memory
of these details to communicate in writing to René. Then he thought of the convenience to surprise
mom with a demand loan for do yourself a post to the gunner.

Don Marcelo looked at him fifteen day satisfaction and glory. The lieutenant Desnoyers could not
go out alone into the street. The father was around for the reception to the helmet that was
exhibited on the rack with a modest splendor and glory.

July Just put him in his head, arose his father, with hat and cane, ready to leave anyway.

-
May I accompany you? ... Are not you upset?

He said it with such humility, with such vehement desire to see accepted the plea, that the
child dared not repel his accompaniment. To stroll with Argensola had to squeeze through the
service stairs and take advantage of other tricks of college.

Mr. Desnoyers had never gone so pleased with the streets of Paris as the side This strapping
young man with his cloak of glorious old age and chest enhanced by
two awards: the Croix de Guerre and the Military Medal.

He was a hero and this hero was his son. Looks sympathetic to the public on the trams and
the Underground Railroad accepted them as a tribute to both.

Interesting glimpses of the women threw the good waiter produced a tickling vanity and anxiety.
All military was, for more gallons and cross-bearing, seemed "ambushed" unworthy to be compared
with July. The wounded descended from the cars leaning on sticks
and crutches will inspire a sense of humiliating pity for them.

Woe! ... They had the fate of his son. A does not who had killed him, and when by chance he received
a wound, his remains were erased immediately, without detriment to the grace of his person.

Sometimes,
especially at night, showed an unexpected magnanimity, leaving Just come out in July. He remembered
his youth winner in love, which had many successes achieved before the war. Now do not get
your prestige brave soldier! ... Walking through the bedroom before bed, he imagined the hero in the
pleasant company a great lady. Only a female celebrity was worthy of him, his paternal pride not
accept less ... And it never could happen Argensola Julio was with a music-hall, in a cinema, enjoying
the simple pleasures of the monotonous and overshadowed by Paris war, with the simplicity of
taste of a second lieutenant, and that in point of loving his success good fortune did not
extend beyond the renewal of some old friendships.

One afternoon, when he walked beside her down the Champs Elysees, shuddered when she saw a lady
coming in the opposite direction. Was Mrs. Laurier ... Do recognize July? Thought perceive that
it was becoming pale, turning his eyes to other people affected distraction. She continued,
upright, indifferent. The old almost irritated at such coldness. Pass with his son without
the instinct let him know his presence! Ah, women! ... Turned head to follow her, but immediately
had to withdraw its hint.

Was surprised Marguerite still behind them, with the pallor of surprise,
staring deep in the military going away.

Don Marcelo felt read in his eyes the admiration, love, everything past suddenly resurfaced
in his memory. Poor girl ... Affection felt for her paternal, as if the wife of July. Lacour his friend
had returned to talk of marriage Laurier.

Margarita knew was going to be a mother. And the old, regardless of reconciliation of the spouses
or the passage of time, he was excited about this motherhood, as if his son had taken part in it.

Meanwhile,
Julio was going, without turning his head, unaware of this look fixed on the back, pale and
humming to conceal his emotion. And he knew nothing. Continued believe that Margaret had passed
by him without knowing, for the old silent.

One of the concerns of Don Marcelo was to ensure that your child tells of the meeting war who had
been wounded. No visitor came to his house to see the sergeant, without leave the old man making
the same request:

- Tell us how you hurt ... Explain how you killed the German captain.

July apologized with visible discomfort. I was tired of their own history. To please his father
had done the story before the Senate, to Argensola and Tchernoff in their study, to other family
friends who had come to see him ... I could not more.

And the father was rushing the story on their own, giving relief and
details of an event seen with his own eyes.

Had to take over the ruins of a sugar refinery in front of the trench. The Germans had been expelled
by the French cannonade. Recognition was needed, guided by an insurance man. And the chiefs
were appointed, as always, Sergeant Desnoyers.

At daybreak, the platoon had advanced cautiously, without hindrance. Soldiers scattered throughout
the ruins. July was only until the end of them, for the purpose of examining the positions of
the enemy, when, turning to an angle of wall, was the most unexpected encounters. A German captain
was facing him. They had almost struck the around the corner. They looked into the eyes, with
more surprise than hatred, while seeking kill by instinct, trying to win each other in speed.
The captain had released the letter of the country in his hands.
His right hand sought his revolver, struggling out of the case, without
for a moment his eyes of the enemy. Then gave up, convinced that this
movement was useless. Too late. Her eyes, wide open for the proximity
of death, followed in the French fixed. This had thrown the gun to
face. A shot from close range ... and the German fell round.

Only
then looked at the captain's orderly, who was walking a few steps
behind him. The soldier fired his rifle against Desnoyers, wounding
him in the shoulder. Came the French, killing ordinance. Then crossed
a live enemy fire with the company, which had beyond high as his head
was exploring the terrain. July, in spite of the wound, continued
in front of his section, defending the plant against superior forces
until finally aid arrived and the ground was definitely in the hands
of the French.

- Was it not so, my son? - Ended Don Marcelo.

The
son nodded, wishing I had done a story as soon as possible annoyed
by their persistence. Yes, they had been. But what his father knew
what he would not say never, was the discovery I had done after killing
the captain.

The two men, looking face to face for a second that
seemed an age, showed in their eyes more than the surprise of the
meeting and wish to be deleted. Desnoyers known to man. The captain,
meanwhile, was known to him. I could tell in his gesture ... But each
of them, with the desire to kill to stay alive, could not muster memories.

Desnoyers
fired with the certainty that he killed an acquaintance. Then, as
directed the defense of the position awaiting the arrival of reinforcements,
he hit the suspect that that enemy whose body was at a short distance
could be a member of his family, one of the Hartrott. It seemed, however,
older than his cousins ​​and his much younger than Uncle Karl. This,
with his years, was not going to appear as a mere captain of infantry.

When,
weakened by blood loss, could be driven to the trenches, the sergeant
wanted to see the body of your enemy. His doubts continued pales before
the face of death. The eyes are open, seemed to keep even the impression
of surprise. This man knew him undoubtedly, he also knew that face.
Who was it? ... Suddenly, with his imagination saw the sea, saw a
large ship, a tall blond woman who looked at him with narrowed eyes,
a burly, mustachioed man who made speeches in the style of the emperor.
"Rest in peace, Captain Erckmann. "It had come to end in a corner
of France, discussions initiated in the middle of the ocean.

Mentally
apologized, as if in the presence of the sweet Bertha. He had to kill
to avoid being killed. That's war. He tried to console ourselves that
such Erckmann had fallen without identifying time, not knowing that
his killer was a fellow traveler of months before ... And kept secret
in the depths of his memory this meeting prepared by the fatality.
Failed to inform his friend Argensola, who knew the incidents Atlantic
crossing.

When least expected, Mr. Marcelo was found at the end of
that life of joy and pride that he had given the presence of his son.
Fifteen days pass quickly. The sergeant left, and the whole family,
after this period of realities, had to return to the caresses deceptive
illusion and hope, waiting for the arrival of letters, making guesses
about the silence of the absent, sending package after package with
all that the trade offered to the military: useful things and absurd.  So I invented a little dodge which I call the `man-stopper'.  It consists in simply
`rymering' a hole in the nose of the bullet, with a file tang or anything else that comes handy;
then, when the bullet strikes, the edges of the hole expand and become `mushroomed', and the
man who is hit knows all about it, I assure you.  Of course that sort of thing is not permitted
in civilised warfare, but when fighting savages the trick is used quite frequently. Indeed,
this is the only kind of missile that will effectually stop a rushing savage.  I would advise
you to treat your bullets in the same way as soon as you have time.  But these dogs' masters
may appear in sight at any moment; and if they do, before we leave this spot, and happen to
be mounted--as I feel sure they are--they will catch us easily before we can possibly reach
shelter, yonder.  And we're scarcely prepared to fight a crowd."

"You're right, skipper," agreed Frobisher; "let's get along as fast as we can."  And the two
men, thrusting their revolvers into their pockets, set off at top speed toward the ruined city,
not a little refreshed by their brief halt while fighting the dogs.

"I wonder," Drake jerked out as they ran, "how the pirates managed to set those dogs after
us?  They hadn't any garments of yours, had they? And I'm sure they had none of mine by which
they could lay them on the scent."

"They had my boots, confound them!" returned Frobisher, "as I am beginning to realise to my
cost.  These wrappings are about worn through, and my feet are almost as sore as though they
had been skinned."

"By Jove, yes!  I had forgotten them," said the little skipper.

The two men pounded along over the sand in silence once more, the walls and buildings of the
ruined town standing out more and more clearly every moment.  Only another half-mile or so,
and they would be safely hidden from view among the maze-like streets of the place.  But could
they do it in time?  Would their pursuers sight them before they could get under cover?  These
were the questions which haunted them both.

"See," Drake presently panted, pointing in front of him, "we are pretty nearly there now. 
That opening in the walls is the site of one of the city gates; and once inside that, we are safe."

Frobisher took a hasty glance behind him, but the pursuers had not yet put in an appearance.
There was nothing in sight but the three black dots on the sand, where the fight with the dogs
had taken place.

"Nothing in sight as yet," he gasped encouragingly to Drake, on whom the pace was again beginning
to tell.  "Keep it up a little longer; we are nearly there now."

A couple of minutes more of hard running placed them almost in the shadow of the walls, and
Frobisher was congratulating himself on their escape, when suddenly something whizzed past
his ear with a shrill, whining sound, and starred itself out in a splash of metal on the stones
of the gateway, plainly visible in the moonlight.  A moment later the crack of a modern rifle
made itself heard.

"Confound it!" growled Frobisher, looking round, "half a minute too late, by all that's annoying!
Buck up, Drake!  Those fellows are in sight and have spotted us," he shouted.  "It will be
touch-and-go now, and no mistake."

Drake nobly responded to the call, and a few seconds later the two men plunged through the
gateway and were under cover.  But, unfortunately, their pursuers had seen where they had gone,
and would not now be at all likely to give up the chase until they had examined every possible
hiding-place inside the walls.

Along the first street that the fugitives came to they dashed, then down a turning to the left,
and along another street leading out of it, only to find that this was a blind alley, and that
their way was stopped.

"Quick--back again!" gasped Drake.  "We cannot get out this way.  Hurry, or they'll catch us
at the other end."

"No time," replied Frobisher, breathing heavily.  "We must of necessity go forward now.  Here,
into this open doorway!  This will give us shelter for the moment, and if they do not sight
us they may not try this street at all."

Accordingly they dashed into the house indicated by Frobisher, and vanished from view just
as a chorus of yells at the mouth of the street indicated the arrival of their pursuers, while
the clatter of horses' hoofs told only too plainly that the pirates, even if they had not actually
sighted their quarry, had decided to search that particular street, at all events.

"Here they come," whispered the skipper.  "We mustn't stay here, or we shall be caught like
rats in a trap.  Up this staircase for your life! We'll get out on the roof, and make a stand
there if they decide to search the house."

Taking the stone steps two at a time, the fugitives dashed upward, presently coming to a kind
of landing from which several stone-flagged passages radiated; thence they climbed up another
narrow staircase which led to the flat roof.  They went up this last so quickly that Drake,
who was leading, had popped his head up above the level of the parapet before he realised what
he was doing.  Luckily, none of the pirates happened to be looking upward at that particular
moment; they were all riding helter-skelter down the street, evidently determined to see what
lay at the end.  Drake counted them before getting under cover again, and found that there
were thirty of them; and that there might possibly be others searching elsewhere, was a contingency
to be kept in mind.

Frobisher had now also crept out on to the roof through the small opening, or trap-door, at
the top of the stairs, and both men cautiously peeped over the low parapet.  And as they watched,
they saw the horsemen come to a halt opposite the identical house they were in, evidently discussing
matters.  Some appeared to think that the men they wanted had not come that way at all, while
others--these the majority--believed differently, and seemed to want to search every house
in the street.  At any rate they had certainly made up their minds to search this particular
dwelling, for they began to dismount outside the doorway.

"We're bottled at last, I'm afraid," said Frobisher.  "What do you say to our opening fire
on 'em now?"

"Not yet," whispered Drake.  "Let's see first if there isn't another way down.  If once they
discover our presence here, they will get us for certain; for we have only six shots left between
us.  I couldn't bring any spare cartridge for reloads."

"Phew!" whistled Frobisher under his breath.  "That's bad.  We are in a tight place indeed,
then.  Come, let's see if there's any other way down."

They crept silently away from the parapet toward the back of the house, and, to their intense
gratification, discovered a flight of ruined stone steps leading down the outside of the wall
to a narrow alley in the rear.  Down these steps they at once made their way, then ran at top
speed up the alley and out of the end of it into one of the broader streets of the city.  They
had now got a good start, for it would take some little time for the pirates to ride round,
even if they should chance to catch sight of the fugitives.  But no shouts were raised behind
them to indicate that they had been seen, and they sprinted along over the rough cobbles for
all they were worth.  There was a large and very handsome building at the end of this road,
and they determined to make for it, since a structure of that size would surely afford greater
facilities for concealment than a smaller house.

From its extent, which became more apparent as they drew nearer, Frobisher conjectured that
it was probably the ruins of some ancient mandarin's palace, or possibly the summer palace
of one of the petty kings of China who ruled in the far-off days when the place was built;
for he could see at a glance that the city had been abandoned for centuries, and that the buildings
themselves were doubtless fairly ancient at the time of the abandonment.

So absorbed were both men on the goal they had set themselves that they dashed past the ends
of sundry streets without even glancing down them, and so failed to realise that they were
still in considerable danger until they heard a series of yells proceeding from one of them.
The enemy had divided forces, and one of these had passed ahead and, searching the side streets,
had seen the Englishmen run past.  The clatter of horses' hoofs told Drake and Frobisher that
their pursuers were close behind, and it did not seem possible now to get clear away. Without
consultation, they at once determined to sell their lives as dearly as possible, and looked
round them for some favourable place where they might make a last stand.  Then, with a muttered
exclamation, Frobisher seized Drake's arm and dragged him into a narrow passage between two
houses, just as the pirates swept into the street.  The passage was in deep shadow, and with
one accord both men threw themselves down at full length, hoping that they would not be seen,
and that the pirates would pass on, imagining their quarry still in front of them.

And, luckily, this was just what happened.  The pirates never thought of examining the narrow
passage--perhaps they never even saw it.  At any rate they dashed past and turned down another
street, which they evidently considered to be the road the fugitives had taken.  The instant
they were out of sight Drake and his companion rose to their feet and continued their run toward
the palace, only a few hundred yards away now.  But they were not yet at the end of their troubles.

The horsemen, as soon as they had turned down the side street alluded to, had seen that the
fugitives were certainly not in it, or they would have been in full view, unless indeed they
had taken refuge in one of the ruined houses thereabouts.  Some of the pirates suggested searching
these before looking elsewhere, while others insisted that they had overrun the pursuit, and
advised going back at once.  The whole band were noisily discussing the pros and cons when
Drake and Frobisher darted past the end of the street; and, seeing the fugitives, the pirates
wheeled their horses and, with a savage whoop, started in pursuit again.

One circumstance, however, gave the Englishmen a little advantage-- sufficient, indeed, as
a matter of fact, to save their lives.  While talking, the horsemen were all bunched together
in a little crowd, and as it happened to be one of the men on the far side of the group who
had been the first to catch sight of the fugitives, he galloped his horse right through the
knot of his companions without a moment's hesitation or warning, thus throwing the whole company
into momentary confusion, one man being unhorsed, while in another instance horse and rider
went down together.  Before the remainder could extricate themselves from the melde and make
a fair start, Drake and Frobisher had obtained a full fifty yards' lead; and by the time their
pursuers had reached the main street, the fugitives were more than half-way to the palace.

Once on the straight, however, the horsemen had the advantage, and overhauled them so rapidly
that when the Englishmen were still twenty yards from the palace steps the foremost of the
pirates were so close behind that Frobisher knew they would be cut off unless something could
be done.  He therefore gave a warning cry to Drake, and instantly darted to one side; and as
the first man dashed past, unable to rein up his horse, the Navy man fired point-blank into
the animal, bringing it and its rider to the earth with a tremendous thud.  Drake accounted
for the next two men in quick succession, while Frobisher dropped a fourth; then, the others
having reined up, the better to use their rifles, the two men took to their heels again and
reached the long and broad flight of steps leading up to the palace entrance in the midst of
a hail of bullets, none of which, fortunately, took effect.

The pirates wasted no time in reloading, but came on again to the foot of the steps.  Here
they were of course obliged to dismount, and some handed over their horses to others of their
number to hold, so that they were only beginning to mount the steps as Drake and Frobisher
reached the top and darted in through the great doorway.  Drake was by this time dreadfully
out of breath, and gaspingly protested that he had come to the end of his tether; nevertheless
he managed to muster sufficient strength to jog along close behind his friend.  At their last
hiding-place they had sought concealment aloft, but Frobisher decided now to take refuge below,
since the palace appeared to be the kind of structure that would afford a better prospect of
escape from the vaults or cellars.

Accordingly the younger man kept his eyes open for a flight of steps leading downward, and,
as the pirates were close behind, darted down the first that met his eyes.  This was a narrow,
winding, stone staircase that led downward so far that they appeared to be reaching to the
very bowels of the earth; but the pair eventually came to the bottom, finding themselves in
a long, stone-flagged corridor, extending a considerable distance, and very dimly lighted by
small gratings which evidently communicated with some chamber above.

They seemed to have come to the end of their tether at last, however, for nowhere could they
find an opening leading out of the corridor.  And already they could hear the pirates descending
the stairs.

"Come, Drake!" whispered Frobisher; "we dare not remain here.  Let's try to the left; there
may be a door concealed somewhere among the shadows. I wish we had a little more light."

The other end of the passage was reached without a single exit being discovered, and there
was no time to run back and try farther in the other direction.

"This is the end, I guess," said Drake, as the approaching footsteps sounded nearer.  "It's
`backs against the wall and fight to the death' for us now, my friend."

Suiting the action to the word, the little skipper grasped his cudgel by the thinner end, took
his revolver--with only one shot remaining--in his other, and flung himself backward against
the wall.

Then a curious thing happened.  The solid wall at the end of the passage yielded to the pressure
of the skipper's body, and Drake, still leaning against it, fell farther and farther backward,
until at last he found himself in a reclining position on the now sloping wall.  Then, to Frobisher's
unbounded amazement, the little man disappeared from view, a dull thud from below announcing
the fact that he had dropped a distance of several feet.  In an instant the younger man realised
what had happened.  The corridor had a purpose, after all; and the door at the end was probably
secured by a concealed spring of some sort which Drake must have unwittingly pressed when he
flung himself back against the wall. Had often heard his master the same words when they
say something funny or to haggle with buyers of beasts.

- Ah thief, false prophet! Think you do not know why you go? Can you imagine that the old Madariaga
has not seen your dirty looks and glances of her daughter dead fly, and when you paseabais you and her
holding hands in the presence of poor China, who is blind the intellect? ... Not a bad blow,
Frenchy.

With it you seize half of the weights of the Galician, and you say you have done to America.

And
as he shouted this, or rather, screamed, had wielded the whip, tapping edge in the stomach of his
manager with an insistence that the same could be affectionate than
hostile.

- So I come to say goodbye - said Desnoyers haughtily -.

I know it's an absurd passion, and I want to go.

- The Lord is going! - Kept screaming the rancher -. Mr. thinks that this can do I want! No,
sir, this does not send anyone but old Madariaga, and I order you to stay ... Oh, Women! Serve only
been pitching to men. And we can not live without them! ...

Gave several silent walks around the room, as if the last words might make him think in things far,
far different from what previously had said. Desnoyers looked uneasily still holding the whip to his
right. If you try to hit as pawns? ... Was face torn between a man who had always treated
with kindness or appeal discrete to a leak, taking advantage of their turns, when the farmer
stood before him.

- Do you really want it ... really? - asked -. Are you sure she loves you? Look closely at what
you say, that love that there is a lot of deception and blindness. I too, when I married, my
china was crazy. Is it true that you want? ... Well, take down, Frenchy the devil, someone has
to carry, and you do not loose out as a cow mother ... Let's see
if I stay full of grandchildren.

Reappeared the major producer of men and beasts to make this wish.

And if it considers necessary to explain his attitude, he added:

- I do all this because I love you, and I love you because you are serious.

Again the Frenchman was absorbed, not knowing what it was so appreciated
the seriousness.

Desnoyers, to marry, he thought of his mother. If poor old could see this extraordinary leap
of his fortune! But Mom had died a year before, believing his son enormously rich because every month
he sent one hundred fifty pesos, slightly more than three hundred francs, drawn the salary he had
in the room.

Joining the Madariaga family served for less interest is attending to his business.

He pulled the city, with the attraction of the charms are not known. He spoke with contempt
of rural women, poorly washed Chinese, now inspired him disgust.

Had left their country rider clothing and exhibited with childish satisfaction that suits you
dressed a tailor in the capital. When Elena wanted to accompany him to Buenos Aires, defended
claiming troublesome business. "No, go with your mother."

The fate of fields and cattle not inspired concerns. His fortune, managed by Desnoyers, was
in good hands.

- This is very serious - say in the dining room before the family
together -.

As serious as I ... Of does not anyone laugh.

And so the French could guess that his father, speaking of serious, alluded to the integrity character.
According to Madariaga spontaneous statement, since the early days he tried to Desnoyers could
guess a genius like his own, perhaps more hard and firm but not yelling and eccentricities. For
this he had been treated with extraordinary kindness, feeling a clash between the two would not fix. Their
only disagreements were due to costs set by Madariaga in earlier
times.

Since the son directed the stays, the work cost less and people showed greater activity. And
this without shouting, no harsh words, with just his presence and short orders.

The old man was the only thing he faced to keep the capricious system followed suit of the gift.
Indignant thorough and mechanical order, always the same, without
some arbitrary quirky, good-natured tyranny.

It is often presented to some of the Desnoyers Mestizo peons to the public posed by the malice
in intimate relationship with the landowner. "Patroncito, says the old pattern to give me five
dollars."

The little chief responded negatively, and soon after had Madariaga, angry gesture, but measuring
his words, considering to which his son was as serious as him.

- Much love you, son, but here no one commands but me ... Ah, Frenchy! Are equal to all those
of your land pilláis penny goes to the media, and sees more sunshine though you crucified
... Did I say five dollars? I'll ten. I sent him, and that's it.

The French paid a shrug, while his father, satisfied with the victory, fled to Buenos Aires. It
was good to note that the room still belonged to Madariaga Galician.

In one of his trips back with a companion, a young German, who, according to him, knew everything and
served to all.

His son worked too. Karl Hartrott would help in accounting. And Desnoyers agreed, feeling a
few days a nascent estimate the new employee.

Belonging to two enemy nations meant nothing. Everywhere there are good people and this Karl
was a subject worthy of appreciation. Was kept at a distance from their peers and was inflexible
and hard to lower.

All his faculties seemed to focus on service and admiration of those who were above him. Just
unfold the lips Madariaga German shook his head in advance to support their words. If I said something
funny, your Laughter was a shocking sound. With Desnoyers showed taciturn and applied work
regardless of hours. Just saw him enter the Administration, jumped from his chair straightening
with military rigidity. Everything was ready to do so. On their own, spying on staff, betraying
their oversights and shortcomings.

This service not enthusiastic about his immediate boss, but thanked
him as an expression of interest by the establishment.

The old rancher praised the acquisition as a success, claiming that
his son's held alike.

- A very helpful waiter, is not it?

... These gringos of the German work well, they know many things
and cost little.

Then, so disciplined! So humilditos! ... I'm telling you, because you Frenchy, but you have
cast evil enemies. Are people hard to peel.

Desnoyers replied with a shrug.

His homeland was far away and also the German. Wonder if it again! ... There were Argentine, and should
think about things immediately, without worrying about the past.

- Also, have so little pride! - Continued Madariaga ironic tone -. Any gringo of these, when
it is dependent on the capital, sweeping the shop, make dinner, take the accounting sold to the
customers, typing, results from four to five languages, and accompanied if necessary, to the
friend of love like a great lady ... all for twenty-five dollars month. Who can fight with people
like that!

You, Frenchy, you're like me ... very seriously, and you would starve before going through certain
things. So I tell you that are fearful.

The farmer, after a short reflection, he added:

- Maybe not as good as they seem. You have to see how they treat those who are below them. They might
think the simple but was not, and when they smile when receiving
a kick, say to himself: "Wait it reaches the mine, and I will refund
three."

Then he seemed to regret his words.

- Anyway, this Karl is a poor boy, an unhappy, just tell me something, open the mouth as if to
swallow flies. He asserts that it is very family, but who knows of
these gringos!

... All starving, coming to America, the cast of children princes.

"So he had familiarly Madariaga from the first moment, no gratitude, as to Desnoyers, but to
make him feel his inferiority. He had also introduced in their house, but only to give piano
lessons to the youngest daughter. "The Romantic" and not placed at dusk at the door watching the
setting sun. Karl, once work in the administration, came to the house of the farmer, sitting next to
Ellen, who typed with a persistence worthy of a better fate.

At the last minute, German, accompanied on the piano, sang fragments of Wagner, which made Madariaga
to doze in an armchair with a strong cigar Paraguay acceded to his lips.

Elena watched with growing interest while the gringo singer. It was the gentleman awaited dream
of the white queen. It was almost a servant, a blond pulling immigrant to red, fleshy, somewhat
heavy and with bovine eyes that reflected an eternal fear of displeasing
to their bosses.

But day by day, was found in him something which changed his first impressions: Karl women's
whiteness beyond the face and hands tanned by the sun rising martial of his whiskers, and the
ease with which he was riding his horse, his air troubadour to sing
with a rather deaf tenor voluptuous romances with words she could
not understand.

One night at the dinner, could not restrain himself, and talked with feverish eagerness which
has made a great discovery:

- Father: Karl is noble. Belongs to a family.

The rancher made a gesture of indifference. Also in those days was concerned. But during the
evening felt the need to unload on someone's inner rage that came
gnawing since his last trip to Buenos Aires, and interrupted the singer.

-
Hey, gringo, what's that in your nobility and other clubs who have
told the little girl?

Karl left the piano to stand up and respond. Under the influence of recent songs, there in his attitude
something to remember when Lohengrin to reveal the secret of his life. His father was a general
von Hartrott, one side of the war leaders of 70. The Emperor had rewarded ennobled. One of his
uncles was an intimate adviser King of Prussia. His older brothers were on the officers of
the regiments privileged. He had drawn sword as a lieutenant.

Madariaga interrupted him, tired of so much greatness.

"Lies ... clubs ... air. "Talk nobility to him gringo! ... Went very young of Europe plunged
into the riots American democracies, and although it seemed somewhat anachronistic nobility
and incomprehensible, is imagined that the only genuine and respectable was that of his country.
For the gringos were granted first place for the invention of machinery for ships, for animal breeding
price, but all the Counts and Marquises of gringuería seemed fake.

-
All farces - he repeated -.

Not in your country is noble, and you have all together five pesos. Tuvierais If not you would
come here to eat or you send enviaríais women who are ... you know what they are as good as
me.

To the astonishment of Desnoyers, the German dash humbly accepted
this, nodding movements Head to the last words of the pattern.

-
If they were true - Madariaga continued relentlessly - all these titles
batons, swords and uniforms, why did you come here?

What the hell have you done in your country to have to go?

Now Karl hung his brow, confused and babbling. "Dad ... Dad, "pleaded Helen. Poor thing! How
to humiliate him because he was poor! ... And he felt a deep gratitude to his brother to see
that he broke his silence to defend the German.

- But I appreciate
to this young man! - Madariaga said apologetically -.

Are those of the earth give me rage.

When, after some days, Desnoyers made a trip to Buenos Aires, explained the anger the old.
For several months he had been the protector of a forgotten German-born soprano in America
by an Italian operetta company.

She recommended to Karl, a fellow bastard that, after rolling through several countries of
America and perform different jobs, lived next door Knight him in class singer. Madariaga had joyously
expended many thousands of dollars. A youthful enthusiasm accompanied him in this new existence
of urban pleasures, until to find a second life that Germany had in his absence and how they laughed
at him parasites in his entourage, flew into a rage, saying goodbye for ever, with accompaniment
bumps and broken furniture.

The latest adventure of your story!

... Desnoyers guessed this willingness to give hear for the first
time admitted his years.

I did not think back to the capital. All lies!

The existence in the countryside, surrounded by family and doing much good to the poor, was the
only truth. And the terrible centaur idyllic expressed with tenderness, with a firm under sixty-five,
and insensitive to the temptation.

After his scene with Karl, and increased the salary of it, appealing
as always to the generosity to repair their violence.

What I could not forget was about his nobility, gave grounds for new jokes. That story had brought
glory to his memory trees Pedigree players stay. The German was a pedigree, and this nickname
appointed him up.

Sitting, on summer nights under a roof of the house, was delighted patriarchal watching his
family around him. The night was quiet hum was populated by cloqueos insects and frogs. In the
distant ranches came the songs of the peons preparing their dinner. It was the time of harvest,
and great bands of immigrants were housed in stay for the extra work.

Madariaga had known dark days of war and violence. He remembered the last years the tyranny of Rosas,
he witnessed the arrival. It listed the various revolutions national and provincial in which he had
taken part, not to be outdone by its neighbors, and to those designated under the title "people."
But all this had disappeared and no repeated.

Were times of peace, work and wealth.

- Look, Frenchy - she said, shooing the jets of smoke from his cigar to mosquitoes that tossing around
him -. I'm Spanish, you French, Karl German, my girls Argentine Russian Cook, his assistant
Greek block the pawn of English, Chinese cuisine, a are in the country, others Italian or Galician,
and among the laborers come in all breeds and laws ... And we all
live in peace!

In Europe probably would have beaten us at this hour, but here all friends.

And he delighted listening to the music of the workers: Italian songs
laments to the accompaniment of accordion, guitar playing support
to Spanish and Creole voices s wild who sang love and death.

- This
is the ark of Noah - the rancher said.

He meant the tower of Babel, Desnoyers thought, but the old man was the same.

- I believe - he continued - because we live in this part of the world there are no kings and
armies are few, and men only think have the best possible thanks to his work. But I also believe
that we live in peace because there are plenty and everyone comes to your part ... The one rations
are closet if they were less than people!

He returned to be in reflective silence, to add a little later:

- Whatever it is, we must recognize that we live more relaxed here than in the other world.
Men are appreciated for their worth and get together without thinking if they come from a land
or another. The waiters are not going to flock to kill other young men who do not know and
whose crime is being born in the village across ... The man is a bad beast everywhere, I admit;
but here come, have land to spare to lie, and is good with the goodness of a dog sick. There
are too many live in plenty, getting in each other, there is little
pittance and become easily enraged.

Long live peace, Frenchy, and the quiet life! Where one feels well and is not at risk of being
killed by things that do not understand, there is the true ground.

And like an echo of the thoughts of rustic character, Karl, sitting in the lounge at the piano,
softly sang a hymn to Beethoven. "Sing the joy of life, sing freedom. Never lie and betray
your neighbor, so even if you offer the highest throne of earth. "

Peace! ... A few days later agreed Desnoyers bitterness of these illusions
of the old.

It was war, a domestic war, which erupted in the idyllic setting of the room. "Patroncito, run, that
the old pattern has peeled knife and wants to kill the German."

And Desnoyers had run away from your desk, when informed by the voices
of a pawn.

Madariaga pursued Karl knife in his hand to strike at all who tried to block his path. Only
he could stop him, snatching the weapon.

- That pedigree scoundrel! - Shouted the old man with a pale face, shaking between arms of
his son -. All starving believe there is more to come to this house to take my daughters and my
weight ... Let me go I say! Let go for it mate!

And with the desire to be free, gave his apologies to Desnoyers. He had accepted him as son
because it was to his taste, modest, honest y. .. seriously. But that pedigree singer, with all
its superb! ... A man he had taken ... would not say where! And the French, so as he learned
of his early relationship with Karl, he pretended not to understand.

As the German had fled, the farmer finally push left her home. Spoke to give a beating to the
'romantic' and one to China, not to learn things. There surprised his daughter holding hands with
the gringo in a nearby grove and changing a kiss.

- Come by my weight! - Howled -.

America wants to do soon to Galician coast, and this song so much humility and so nobly. Liar! ...
Musician!

And the repeated insistence of "musician!" As if it were
the realization of all their scorn.

Desnoyers, firm and sober words,
given an outcome of the conflict. "The romantic 'hugging his mother,
took refuge on the roof of the house. The brother had protected its
withdrawal, but spite of this, the sensible Elena moaned through tears
thinking of the German: "Poor thing! All against it! "Meanwhile, the
wife of Desnoyers retained his father in his office appealing to all
his daughter's influence judiciously. The French went in search of
Karl, bad parts even the terrible surprise, and gave him a horse to
be moved immediately to the nearest railway station.

Left the room,
but did not stay single long. After a few days, "the Romantica left
behind him ... Iseo "of the white hands" went in search of the gentleman
Tristan.

Madariaga's desperation was not violent and deafening, as
he hoped his son. For first time he saw him mourn. Robust and happy
old age suddenly disappeared. In an hour seemed to have lived ten
years. As a child, wrinkled and trembling, clung to Desnoyers, wetting
neck with her tears.

- It has been born! The son of a great flea
... it has been!

This time he did not regret the responsibility for
their china. Wept beside her, and as if to comfort with a public confession,
he said repeatedly:

- For my sins ... Everything has been my very
great sins.

Began for Desnoyers a period of difficulties and conflicts.
The fugitives sought in one of his visits to the capital, imploring
his protection. "The Romantica wept, saying only his brother, "the
most gentlemanly man in the world" could save her. Karl looked like
a faithful dog who trusts his master. These interviews were repeated
in all his travels. Then, upon returning to the room, was the grumpy
old man, silent, staring before him, as though he saw something invisible
to others, and suddenly saying: "It is a punishment: the penalty for
my sins. "The memory of his early relations with Germany, before take
him to the room, he was tormented as a regret. Some evenings was saddled
a horse, set off at full gallop to the nearest town. He did not go
in search of ranch hospital. Needed to spend some time in the church,
speaking alone with the images, which were there just for him, as
it was he who had paid bills acquisition ... "For my fault, through
my most grievous fault."

But in spite of his repentance, Desnoyers
had to work hard to get him a settlement. When I spoke to regularize
the situation of the fugitives, facilitating procedures necessary
for marriage, not let him continue. "Do what you want, but do not
tell me of them. "It took many months. One day, the French came up
with some mystery. "Elena has a son, and called him in July as to
you. "

- And you, you big useless - shouted the farmer - and the
cow loose your wife live quietly without giving me a grandchild ...
Ah, Frenchy! So the Germans end up piggybacking on you.  They had not yet, apparently,
thought of looking in the gardens.

"Think we dare risk it?" enquired Drake, voicing the idea uppermost in both their minds, and
pointing toward the groups of unconscious pirates.

"Yes," replied Frobisher.  "They seem to be pretty fully occupied with their own concerns just
now, and are evidently under the impression that we are still hiding somewhere in the building,
so I think we could not hope for a better opportunity.  They must, without fail, eventually
discover that we are nowhere in the building, so we had better get away before they take it
into their heads to start searching in this direction.  I expect both groups have joined forces
by this time, to participate in that meal they are preparing, so we should be able to get clear
of the town without being seen."

This point settled, the pair made their way cautiously out of the gardens, and soon gained
the streets, which they traversed slowly, to save themselves as much as possible in case the
pursuit should again be taken up.  And in about half an hour, during which they had perceived
no cause for alarm, they realised, by the gradual thinning of the houses, that they were approaching
the outskirts of the city on its eastern side.

They were proceeding carefully, conversing, and noting the interesting relics of a bygone civilisation,
when, without a word, Drake suddenly seized his companion's arm and hastily dragged him behind
a convenient wall.  Frobisher, too much astonished for words, could only look round, wonderingly,
imagining that the pirates were after them again; and as he did so, he perceived the cause
of the skipper's alarm.

The danger was not behind, but in front.  The pirates had proved to be wider awake than either
of the Englishmen had anticipated, and had posted a sentry at the eastern gate.  Fortunately
for them, the man happened to be looking in another direction at the moment when they turned
the corner, or discovery would have been inevitable.  As it was, the question arose--how was
this fresh obstacle to be overcome?  They might possibly avoid the man by making a long detour
to some other gate, but this plan appealed to neither of them, for even should they succeed
in escaping by some other outlet, the ground outside the walls was so bare that the man must
inevitably see them.  The alarm would be raised, when of course the pursuit would at once be
resumed, and their capture become certain.

A few words between the two Englishmen sufficed to show that the same plan--the only practicable
one--had occurred to both; and, avoiding the main street, they made their way through side
lanes and back alleys until they emerged at a spot only a few yards distant from the unsuspecting
sentinel.  Then, watching through a convenient cranny until his back was turned, they ran swiftly
forward and concealed themselves behind a low stone wall which the man was passing and repassing
on his beat.

The next time he passed that wall the sentry experienced the unpleasant sensation of being
jumped on from behind by two men, one small and the other very large and heavy; the latter
kneeling on his chest and squeezing his windpipe, while the other securely lashed his wrists
and ankles together with strips torn from his own robe, their operations being completed by
thrusting a gag made of the same material into his mouth and securing it there firmly.  The
Englishmen then carried him between them into one of the adjacent ruined houses, took him to
an upper room, and left him there for his companions to find, if fate should so decree.

As a matter of fact, fate evidently decreed against the unhappy man, for several months afterwards
the remains of a gagged and bound Chinaman were found in that very house by a party of travelling
nomads; but it was a case of the pirate's life or those of the Englishmen, and it did not take
them long to decide which the world could best spare.

The sentry having been thus disposed of, Drake and Frobisher struck off across the desert,
by the margin of the river, at a good round pace; for since the pirates had posted a guard,
it was probable that they would visit him sooner or later, and the Englishmen wanted to be
well out of sight before anything of that sort should occur.

A little later on they were fortunate enough to come to a village, most of the inhabitants
of which were away, as it happened, probably hunting, or fishing, or otherwise engaged upon
their usual occupations.  Here they secured a hearty meal of rice, bread, cheese, and goats'
milk; after which they found themselves marvellously refreshed, and thought the meal cheap
at the price of one of Genghiz Khan's gold pieces, specially cleaned up for the purpose of payment.

It is unnecessary to relate in detail the incidents of the journey of the fugitives back to
Tien-tsin, for nothing in the way of real adventure occurred after they had once left the ruined
city behind.  On the way Drake explained to Frobisher how he had come to attempt his friend's
rescue; and, in a few words, this is how it came about.

Drake had returned in the Quernmore from England with his cargo, which he duly delivered. 
Then, as China was purchasing steamers for use as transports, and he was offered about twice
his ship's actual value, he sold her, and so found himself at a loose end, without employment.
He regarded this as a favourable opportunity to commence enquiries respecting Frobisher, whom
he believed to be still a prisoner in Korea; and, happening to encounter Wong-lih--who had
by that time returned from his visit to southern China--he heard the whole of Frobisher's history,
from the moment when the admiral found and rescued him at Asan, to that of his expedition up
the river after the pirates.  He was also informed that the expedition had failed, and that
his friend was either dead or a prisoner.  Wong-lih, said Drake, was greatly cut up at losing
so promising an officer, a man, too, of whom he had made a friend; but he could not be induced
to send a rescue party.  He was altogether too busily occupied with matters of moment to his
country, and war was so imminent, that, as a matter of fact, the admiral found himself absolutely
unable to spare a ship or a crew for such a purpose.  Drake therefore determined to ascertain
for himself if Frobisher were still alive, and, if so, to attempt his rescue.  And as he happened
to be a good Chinese linguist, and possessed in a high degree the art of disguising himself,
the attempt proved, as has been seen, completely successful.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It was exactly two months after Frobisher's escape from the pirates' fortress when two very
weary, very ragged Englishmen arrived in Tien-tsin; and so bronzed and disreputable did they
appear that they could obtain accommodation nowhere until they had proved, by the exhibition
of some of their gold, that they were not up-country robbers, but solvent citizens, of merely
a temporarily unattractive exterior.

This condition was soon altered, with the assistance of a few baths, a shave, and new drill
suits; and, having made their toilets, Frobisher proposed starting immediately to report himself
to Wong-lih, or whatever admiral happened to be on the spot at the moment.  Drake insisted
on accompanying him; and accordingly the two men sauntered off toward the Navy Buildings, where
they were told that Admiral Wong-lih might be found at the dockyard, busily superintending
the fitting out for sea of several repaired and re-boilered cruisers.

Upon enquiring the reason for all the bustle and confusion that were everywhere apparent, and
the quite unaccustomed businesslike air of the port, Frobisher was informed by the officer
to whom he applied for information that Japan had, a few days previously, perpetrated an act
which could hardly be interpreted otherwise than as meaning war; and that consequently all
possible preparations were being hurriedly made to meet the contingency.  Guns were being mounted,
ships were being dry-docked, scraped, and painted, nucleus crews were being brought up to fighting
strength, and, in short, everything that could be done was being done to place China in a position
to send her Navy to sea to encounter the Japanese squadrons; for it was plainly to be seen,
said the officer, that, since the first acts of hostility had taken place, a formal declaration
of war was merely a matter of a few days, and there was a great deal to be done in the time.
Frobisher thanked the man for his information, and then he and Drake hurried on their way toward
the dockyard.  Truly, the air was full of mutterings and rumours of war.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

THE DRAGON AWAKES.

On their way to the dockyard, while passing along the "Street of Many Waters", they heard in
the distance the sound of a military band, playing very barbaric music--to English ears, that
is to say--but in what was undoubtedly "march" time.  Presently they found themselves compelled
to halt for about five minutes at a cross street, named "The Lotus", while several companies
of a Chinese Line regiment went swinging past on their way to the barracks; and Drake and his
companion could not refrain from commenting favourably upon the smart and businesslike appearance
of the men.

They were, it appeared, part of a crack corps; and every officer and private seemed fully to
realise the fact, and to be proud of it.  There was not a single soldier among them standing
less than six feet in height, and the majority were broad in proportion.  The Navy men whom
Frobisher had so far encountered were usually uniformed somewhat after the fashion of European
officers and seamen.  The officers wore the flat, peaked cap, with a gold dragon in front instead
of the crown and anchor, while their jackets and trousers of dark-blue cloth were almost exactly
similar to those of our own men, except that the facings, instead of being gold, were of that
peculiar shade of blue so much in favour among the Chinese.  The ordinary tars wore the conventional
dark--blue, baggy trousers, and a blouse of the same colour, cut to a "V" shape at the neck
in front, but minus the collar at the back which European seamen have adopted, while the skirt
of the blouse was allowed to hang loose outside the trousers, instead of being tucked in. 
The only essential difference between the Celestial seamen's uniform and our own lay in the
cap, which, instead of being flat and dark-blue in colour, was of the conventional Chinese
shape and white in colour, with a knob of some soft material on the top.  Their pigtails were
rolled up and tucked into the crown of these caps--or, more correctly, hats. Their arms consisted
of rifles--which, Frobisher noted, were of widely-different patterns, most of them obsolete,
although all were breech-loaders--and a kind of cutlass, somewhat similar to the British naval
weapon, but with a two-handed hilt, and only a small, circular piece of polished brass for a guard.

The soldiery, however, smart though they were, in no way resembled those of European armies.
Their uniforms, all similar of course, consisted of identically the same hat as that worn in
the Navy; a white jacket, very long and very loose, with baggy sleeves, the collar, front,
and skirt, and the edges of the cuffs all edged with broad Chinese-blue braid; and short and
baggy trousers, gathered just below the knee, and tucked into a kind of "puttee" legging, consisting
of a long wrapping of white canvas.  The trousers were also white, with a Chinese-blue stripe
of broad braid down the outside--and, strangely enough, the inside also--of the leg.  The boots
were eminently sensible and serviceable, and were something like the Red Indian's moccasin,
the uppers being made of two thicknesses of deer hide, which were kept on the foot by means
of a narrow tape run through eyelets, while the soles were built up of several thicknesses
of felt, amounting in all to about an inch and a half.  They had an appearance of great clumsiness,
but were, as a matter of fact, extremely light, springy, and comfortable.  The thickness of
the soles, the springiness of the felt, and the absence of heels made the boots particularly
easy to march in, and the soldiers were thus able to cover great distances without feeling
fatigue.  These men, instead of hiding their pigtails under their head-gear, allowed them to
hang down; and some of them, Frobisher observed, were of great length, in some cases falling
as low as the back of the knee.

For arms the men carried rifles, of a more modern pattern than those in use in the sister service;
in fact, they seemed, so far as Frobisher could see without close inspection, to be Martini
weapons of the 1879 pattern--a most serviceable and reliable fire-arm, far superior to the
modern small-bore rifle in the opinion of soldiers themselves, as a man-stopper and rush-checker.
A long, wicked-looking bayonet with a basket hilt, the back of the blade serrated for three-quarters
of its length, like the edge of a large saw, swung from the left hip; and the armoury was completed
by a long-hilted, long-bladed knife, or short sword, stuck through the belt which supported
the bayonet.  They would certainly be a "tough crowd to meet at close quarters", as Drake murmured
to his companion while the men swung past.

The soldiers appeared to be extremely partial to flags, for there seemed to be one to every
twenty or thirty men.  These were all identical in shape and colour, being triangular and yellow,
with the device of a crimson dragon, open-jawed, in the centre.

As soon as the men had passed, Frobisher and Drake continued their walk, and shortly afterward
reached the entrance to the dockyard, where they were sharply challenged in Chinese by a sentry.
Fortunately, as has been before noted, Drake was an excellent Chinese scholar; and, in answer
to his explanation that they were in search of Admiral Wong-lih, the man allowed them to pass,
and very civilly directed them where to go, having seen the officer in question pass but a
short time previously.

While Drake was obtaining this information Frobisher amused himself by looking around him;
and as he did so, he caught sight of a very gorgeously dressed official approaching, attended
by several servants, one of whom was holding a large umbrella over his master's head, while
another timidly supported the heavy silken train of the mandarin's cloak.  There was something
familiar about this man's appearance, but the Englishman could not remember whether or not
he had really met him before, or whether it was only a resemblance to some other that had attracted
his notice.  He was a man of very high standing--there could be no doubt about that; for, while
he was yet some ten yards away, the sentry abruptly ceased his conversation with Drake, pushed
the little skipper aside, and presented arms, his face assuming the fixed expression of a wooden
image, touched, Frobisher imagined, with more than a trace of fear.  And indeed, upon closer
inspection, the official's countenance itself was seen to be anything but pleasant in expression.

He did not deign to return the sentry's salute, but stared in a particularly offensive manner
at the two Englishmen, finally coming to a halt and putting several questions to the sentry,
who replied in tones that positively quavered with apprehension.  During this time the personage
never took his eyes off the two friends, and Frobisher was on the point of losing his temper
when the unknown, with a distinctly perceptible sneer, turned his back rudely and, with a curt
command to his waiting attendants, stalked majestically away.

"Who the--?"

"What a--" began Drake and Frobisher simultaneously, then stopped. Frobisher, simmering with
rage, continued:

"Drake, ask this sentry, here, who in thunder that insolent bounder is. By Jingo!  I have half
a mind to go after him and tweak his pigtail soundly.  Why, he looked at us as though we were
dirt beneath his feet-- as though we had no business to be alive.  Confound his impudence!"

Drake, fully as indignant, sharply put the desired question, and in reply received a long explanation
from the sentry, who constantly sent glances after the mandarin, as though fearful that the
latter might overhear what he was saying, even at that distance.  Presently he concluded, and
Drake translated whilst the two continued their search for Wong-lih.

"The fellow says," explained Drake, "that the individual who treated us to such a close scrutiny
is a very important official indeed.  He is one of the members--the chief, in fact--of the
Naval Council, also a four-button mandarin, entitled to wear the insignia of the golden peacock.
And he is also the captain of the battleship Ting-yuen, the flagship of the Chinese northern
fleet, which flies the flag of the celebrated Admiral Ting himself.  Last, but by no means
least, he holds an important post in the dockyard (though how he manages to carry out the duties
of that and those of captain at one and the same time I do not know); while, to cap everything,
he is a member of the Chinese Royal Family, a Prince, no less, I assure you.  What do you think
of that for a tally, eh, Mr Frobisher?"

"Well, I am rather inclined to be sorry for the people who come under the scope of his Naval
jurisdiction," returned Frobisher.  "I should hate to serve in any ship of which he was captain.
Of course I don't know the fellow from Adam, but there is something about him that aroused
in me a very strong sense of repulsion; he looked to me like an arch-criminal.  By the way,
did the man tell you what his name was?  I feel sure I've seen him somewhere before; I remember
that repellent, snaky look in his eyes, which gives one the shivers up and down one's spine."

"Oh ay," replied the skipper; "I'd forgotten that.  He did mention his tally, as a matter of
fact.  Let's see--um--what was it again?  Ah, I remember.  He called him Prince See--at least,
that's what it sounded like."

"By Jove! then I remember when I met him last, Drake," exclaimed Frobisher.  "It was when I
went with my friend the admiral to the Council meeting at the Navy Building, when I received
my commission in the Chinese Navy.  Wong-lih mentioned then, that his name was Prince Hsi;
and I recollect how very unpleasantly he impressed me then.  It appears also that he is a bit
of a scoundrel; for in Wong-lih's absence in Korea the fellow had the audacity to send the
Chih' Yuen, the ship I was to be appointed to, to Wei-hai-wei to have her 9.4's replaced by
12-inch guns, intending to sell the smaller weapons, substitute old, out-of-date twelves, and
pocket the difference.  But, luckily, Wong-lih met her on the way there, screwed the information
out of her captain, and stopped Hsi's little game.  He hates Wong-lih, therefore; and, as I
am a friend of the admiral's, he has honoured me also with a share of his dislike."

"The low-down, ruffianly swab!"  Drake burst out.  "But there! that's just the sort of beast
he looks.  Well, Mr Frobisher, if, as you say, he dislikes you--and from the way he looked
at you I should say that `hate' was the more correct word--I would advise you to keep your
weather eye lifting.  That sort of man hesitates at very little, and he seems to have the power,
as well as the will, to do you a bad turn; so watch out!"

"I will, Drake," replied Frobisher; "you can rely on that.  But here we are at last, I think;
this is the place where the sentry said we should find Wong-lih, isn't it?"

"Ordnance Wharf, third shed along, first door on the far side of the sheer-legs before you
come to the fifty-ton crane, he said," replied Drake; "so I reckon that this is the door. 
And, by Jiminy! there is the admiral himself, walking beside the other officer in gold lace--a
flag-captain, I should say, by his aiguillettes."

"That's him, right enough," agreed Frobisher, and together the two men set off in pursuit,
keeping a little in the rear until the two officers should have finished their conversation.

Presently the captain saluted and went off about his own business, and Wong-lih, turning, caught
sight of Drake and Frobisher.  As his eyes fell upon the latter, he stood stock-still, his
jaw dropped, his eyebrows went up, and he looked as though he had seen a ghost.

"Why, Captain Frobisher," he exclaimed at last, coming forward and holding out his hand, "is
it then really you?  My dear boy, I am glad to see you again, safe and sound, too, by all appearances.
I have been mourning you as dead these three months and more, ever since I got back from the
south and learnt of the disaster to the Su-chen on the Hoang-ho.  I never expected to see you
alive again when I heard that you had fallen into the clutches of the pirates; and I was more
grieved than I can tell you--as Captain Drake here can testify--not to be able to send a rescue
party after you to try to save, or at least avenge, you. But it was absolutely impossible;
I had neither ships nor men to spare. The imminence of our war with Japan, which has been threatening
daily for months past, and which is now an all-but-acknowledged fact, would not allow of it.
Much as I regretted you, my country naturally was my first consideration."

"Of course, sir," agreed Frobisher heartily; "I quite understand.  I, too, am delighted to
see you once more; indeed, I came down here to the yard on purpose to find you and report myself
ready for duty.  I hope, sir, that you can still employ me."

"Employ you?" ejaculated the admiral.  "I should rather say we can! Why, I could use hundreds
of men like you, if only they existed in China.  But come along to my office; we can talk more
comfortably there. And you too, Captain Drake, if you will so far honour my poor quarters."

"With pleasure, with pleasure, my lord--your maj---er--Sir, I mean," Drake almost shouted,
in his confusion, quite "flabbergasted", as he himself would have called it, at the Chinaman's
stately, old-world courtesy.  And a few minutes later they found themselves in Wong-lih's comfortably-furnished
office, in the ordnance department of the dockyard.  Arrived there, and having seated themselves,
the admiral ordered refreshments, and immediately plunged into the matter always nearest his
heart, now more so than ever.

"Since you have reported, Captain Frobisher," he commenced, "I take it that you are ready for
service at any moment."

"This instant, if you wish it, sir," answered Frobisher.

"Thank you, Captain!" said Wong-lih.  "That is practically what it amounts to.  Your ship,
the Chih' Yuen, is here now; and I would like you to take command of her at the earliest possible
moment.  She is in readiness to go to sea, with stores, ammunition, and men aboard--would be
at sea now, as a matter of fact, had we had an officer to whom we dared trust her.  And you,
sir," turning to Drake, "are you willing to accept service under my Emperor?  If so, I can
offer you a berth."

"Certainly I am, your Highness," replied Drake heartily.  "Only, if I may be so bold as to
say so, I should like to be on the same ship as my fr--as Captain Frobisher here."

"Say `friend', Drake," broke in Frobisher.  "It was on the tip of your tongue, and it is the
truth.  If a man who saves another's life is not a friend, I do not know what else you would
call him."

"Quite right, Captain Frobisher," said Wong-lih.  "I like to hear you say that.  And as for
you, Mr Drake, I can satisfy your wish very easily, as it happens.  The acting first lieutenant
of Mr Frobisher's ship is not fitted for the post, but he was the best we had at the time.
Now, if you choose, you shall replace him as first lieutenant of the Chih' Yuen, and I will
have your commission made out immediately."

"Nothing would please me better, my lord," replied Drake, with the utmost enthusiasm; "and
I assure you that you--"

"Very well, then," interrupted the admiral, who was plainly hard pressed for time; "that's
agreed.  You shall receive your commission to-night. And now, gentlemen both, although I am
so busy that I scarcely know what to do first, I must spare the time to give you a short account
of the state of affairs as it stands at present, since it is necessary that you should have
the fullest information to enable you--you in particular, Captain Frobisher--to understand
exactly how things are with China, and how extremely critical the situation is.  When you have
heard what I am about to tell you, you will be able to form your own ideas and plans, and so
be in a position to work intelligently with your brother captains, and under the admiral who
is going to command the northern fleet, to which you will be attached.  I may mention that
I am to be in command of the southern division, while Admiral Ting will be your chief.

"You remember, of course, Captain Frobisher, that when the rebellion in Korea became so serious
that the Government could not deal with it, the Korean Minister asked our assistance, and we
gave it, as you saw, at Asan.  I also informed you then that Japan had thereupon thought fit
to manifest a somewhat unfriendly attitude by sending an unnecessarily strong guard to her
Minister at Seoul, coupled with an intimation that she would feel obliged to send a much larger
force if the rebellion was not immediately crushed.  That, in itself, as we fully realised,
amounted very nearly to a threat of war against China, and showed us that Japan was only awaiting
her opportunity.  We therefore sent a very strongly worded protest against such action to Tokio;
and the Japanese thereupon agreed to defer action until it could be seen what turn events in
Korea were going to take.

"That was the situation when you were sent in the Su-chen up the Hoang-ho; and those of us
who had eyes to see and ears to hear were fully awake to the fact that this concession on the
part of Japan was merely a postponement of the evil day.  Perhaps she found she was not as
fully prepared for war as she had imagined.  I know we were not.  My colleagues and I, and
those of us who had our country's interests at heart, took warning, therefore, and hurried
forward our preparations for war as rapidly as we could.

"Then things remained fairly quiescent until a few days ago.  We had practically quelled the
Korean rebellion, and matters were resuming their normal status in Korea, the only thing that
remained being to institute the reforms which were undoubtedly necessary in that country. The
proposals for these were offered to, and accepted by, the Korean Government; and the proposed
modifications of policy began to take shape at once.  One would therefore have thought that
our little campaign in Korea might be said to have terminated satisfactorily, and that Korea
might be left to carry out the course of action to which she had pledged herself.  In fact,
we actually commenced the withdrawal of our troops.

"Then, suddenly, Japan sprang her mine.  Our Minister at Seoul was informed by the Japanese
representative that Japan did not consider Korea competent to carry out her promises, and that
therefore Japan would unite with China to carry out the reforms between them.  This, of course,
was tantamount to Japan claiming the right to share China's suzerainty over Korea, a most audacious
and--I may almost call it-- infamous proposition.  It was one to which Japan, of course, knew
we would never agree, and we told her so in very plain terms.

"The next thing we heard was that Japan had landed no fewer that five thousand men in Korea,
and that they were marching on Seoul; and on the same day the Japanese Minister there forced
the situation by tendering two ultimatums--one to Korea, and one to us.  The Korean ultimatum
required that, within twenty-four hours, Korea should disclaim Chinese suzerainty and pledge
herself to allow Japan alone to carry out the reforms in question.  The alternative was that,
if Korea would not agree, she was to be treated as an enemy to Japan.  The ultimatum addressed
to us was to the effect that we should, also within the same time, surrender our suzerainty
to Japan and relinquish all claims over Korea--the alternative in our case being war!

"Of course we could not possibly send a reply within the time stipulated; and even if we could,
we should have refused the proposal with scorn.  Our Minister at Seoul did all that man could
do to gain time, and sent the news to us immediately.  As soon as we heard of Japan's action
we knew that the anticipated moment had come, and that war had become inevitable; we therefore
hurried eight thousand men on board transports, and dispatched them at once to Asan.  And now
comes a circumstance it almost breaks my heart to tell.

"War had not yet been actually declared, you understand, and Japan was still officially awaiting
our decision; yet the Japanese fleet, in its full strength, lay in wait for our transports
and the convoying men-of-war, and attacked them, sinking the transport Kowshing, with over
a thousand men on board, and one of our cruisers.  The other transports and cruisers escaped
and got safely to Asan, where the troops were landed, the ships sheltering under the guns of
the fortress.  The messenger who brought the news of this treacherous attack informed us that
the five thousand Japanese troops which I mentioned just now, having reached Seoul, had been
dispatched again immediately, under General Oshima, to Asan to attack the garrison there. 
They met a small force of our soldiers four days later, at Song-hwan, and, I am sorry to say,
defeated them; and the only silver lining to our cloud lies in the surprise those Japanese
will receive when they find themselves met at Asan by seven thousand of our men, instead of
only the small garrison of the place; for it is not very likely that Oshima's force, being
on the march, will have heard either of the naval battle, or of our successful landing of the
majority of our men at Asan.

"The sea fight occurred a week ago, but we only received news of the land battle to-day; and
although we have been taken unawares by Japan's treachery in striking before the declaration
of war, we have managed to prepare ourselves pretty well, thanks to the warnings we had that
this was coming.  Mark me!--Japan shall find to her cost that she cannot insult and ride rough-shod
over my country without being called to very strict account.  War, Mr Frobisher, will be declared
by China against Japan tomorrow, the 1st of August; and I rely upon you, as well as upon all
the rest of my officers, to do your utmost to keep command of the sea. "Farewell, my children
... Goodbye, life ... I do not want to die ... !...»

Not want to die

The two men felt the need to say something, you close the page of
its existence with a statement.

- Viva la Republica! - Shouted the
mayor.

- Vive la France! - Said the priest.

Desnoyers believed that both had shouted the same thing.

Two vertical rose above their heads: the priest's arm in the air drew
a sign the saber squad leader flashed while livid ... Dry thunder,
resounding later followed by several explosions.

Don Marcelo felt sorry for poor humanity to see the grotesque forms it takes in the moment
of death. Some collapsed as half-empty bags, others bounced on the ground as well as balls, some
gymnast jumped with his arms held high, falling back or face down, in an attitude of swimmer.
Leaving the lot saw how human legs contorted by the tremors of agony ... Soldiers moved with the
same gesture of hunters who go to collect their pieces. In the throb of the members scrambled rose
a white mane and a weak hand that was trying to repeat his sign. Several throws and kicks in
the livid lot of blood dripping ... And the last tremor of life were
erased forever.

The officer had lit a cigarette.

- When you like - said to Desnoyers with ironical politeness.

Mounted on the car to cross Villeblanche, returning to the castle. Fires increasingly numerous
and the corpses lying in the streets and the old was not impressed. He had seen so much! What
could alter and their sensitivity? ... I wanted to leave the village as before, in search of
peace of the fields.

But the fields had disappeared in the invasion: soldiers everywhere, horses, guns. Groups
at rest destroyed his contact their surroundings. The battalions had invaded up all the roads,
noisy and automatic like a machine, preceded by the fifes and drums, tossing from time to when
to cheer, his cry of joy: "Nach Paris!"

The castle was also marred by the invasion. Had greatly increased the number of their guardians
during the owner's absence. He saw a regiment of infantry encamped in the park. Thousands of
men under them trees waved their food prepared in kitchens trailers. The beds in his garden,
exotic plants, carefully sanded Avenues and swept, all broken and worn by the flood of men and beasts
and vehicles.

A chief boasting a distinctive sleeve cuff of the military administration issued orders as if he were
the owner. Neither deigned to fix his eyes on the next civil marching a lieutenant with shrinking
of prisoner. The stables were empty. Desnoyers saw her conducted last cows out to the shepherds
sticks with helmet. Expensive players were slaughtered everyone in the park as mere beasts
of slaughter. In poultry and pigeon was not a single bird. The stables were full of emaciated
horses that were given a weariness before the manger full. The grass is sprinkled liberally stored
by the floods, largely lost before being used.

The horses of several squadrons would released through the fields, destroying at your kick channel,
the edges of the slopes, smoothing of the soil, all work of many months. The dry wood burning
in the park a flared useless. Carelessness or mischief, someone had applied the fire to their stacks.
The trees, the bark dry by the heat of summer, rustling when licked by the flames.

The building was also occupied by a crowd of men who were due to this boss. Left their windows open to
see a continuous flow through the rooms. Desnoyers heard shock that reverberated in his chest. Oh,
the historic mansion!

... The general was about to be installed in it, after having examined
the banks of the Marne the work of the pontoon, which established
several steps for the troops.

His owner afraid of him speaking. Feared breaks up the bedroom doors closed, she wanted to go
in search of keys for delivery. The commissioner did not listen: it was ignoring its existence.
The lieutenant said with a kindness shear:

- No need, no bother.

And he went to join his regiment. But before he lost sight Desnoyers
the officer wanted to give him advice.

Stay in the castle, outside of it could take a spy, and was already aware of how quickly solved
their affairs soldiers emperor.

He could not stay in the garden watching from afar his home.

The Germans who came and mocked him coming. Some marched to meet him in a straight line, as
if he saw it, and had to be turned away for not by the mechanical
feed and rigid.

Finally took refuge in the flag of the concierge. The woman watched in amazement, dropped into a
seat your kitchen, discouraged, look at the floor, suddenly aged to lose energy that encouraged
a robust old age.

- Ah, sir ... Poor lord!

Of all the attacks of the invasion, the most unheard of for the poor woman was contemplating
the refugee in his own home.

- What will become of us! - Moaned.

Her husband was often called by the invaders. Attendees of His Excellency, installed in the
basement of the castle, claiming to inquire the whereabouts of the things they could not find.
Of these trips became humiliated, his eyes filled with tears.

His forehead the black mark of a blow, his jacket was torn. Were traces of a feeble attempt opposition
during the absence of the owner to start stripping the Germans stables classrooms.

Millionaire felt bound by misfortune to a people hitherto perceived
with indifference.

Much appreciated the loyalty of this sick man and humble.

He moved the interest of the poor woman, who looked as if the castle itself. The presence of
The daughter brought to his memory the image of Chichi. Had passed it without regard to its
transformation, seeing the same thing when accompanied with little dog trot, Mademoiselle Desnoyers
on excursions through the park and surrounding area. Now she was a woman, thinness the last boom,
noting the first through feminine in his body for fourteen years. The mother would not let
go of the flag, fearing the soldiers, who invaded everything with
its current overflowing, seeping into the open places, breaking the
barriers hindered in its path.

Desnoyers silence left her desperate to confess that he was hungry. He was ashamed of this material
requirement, but the emotions of the day, death, close-up, the woods yet threatening, awakened
in him a nervous appetite. The fact that it was a miserable in the midst of their wealth and
could not have anything in his domain further increased their need.

- Poor sir - said the woman again.

And watched with amazement the millionaire eating a piece of bread and a triangle of cheese,
All he could find in your home. The certainty would not get other food for more searching, made
Don Marcelo continue tormented by his appetite. Having conquered an enormous fortune, to go hungry
at the end of his life! ... The woman, as though divining their thoughts, moaning, raising
her eyes. From early morning the world had changed its course, everything seemed upside down.
Oh, war! ...

In the rest of the afternoon and part of the night was getting the news owner the concierge
brought him after his visits to the castle.

The general and numerous officers occupied rooms. There was only one door closed, they were
all wide, with rifle butts and axes. Gone were many things, the doorman did not know how, but
had disappeared, perhaps broken, perhaps stolen by those who came and went. The head of Cuff
went from room to room examining everything, dictating in German to a soldier writing. Meanwhile,
the general and his men were in the dining room. Drink plenty and consulted maps spread out on
the floor. The poor man had to descend into the caves in search of the best wines.

At nightfall, it was a movement of this human tide flow fields covering out of sight. Had been
established several bridges over the Marne and the invasion resumed their advance. The regiments
were put up by throwing her scream with excitement: "Nach Paris! "Those who stayed to continue the
next day were settled in houses ruined or outdoors.

Desnoyers heard singing. Under the glare of the first stars soldiers were grouped as choruses, their
voices form a choral solemn and sweet of religious gravity. Floating above the trees a red
cloud in the shade for more intense. It was the reflection of the people, still aflame. In the
distance, other farm fires and villages cut off the night with their blinking bloody.

The old man ended up falling asleep in the bed of their caretakers, with heavy, brutalizing sleep Fatigue,
smooth or nightmares. Fell and fell into a dark hole and never ending. Upon awakening, he imagined
that he had slept only a few minutes. The orange sun colored the
window blinds.

Through its fabric saw some tree branches and birds that flew twittering among the leaves. He felt
the same joy of the cool summer mornings. Hermosa tomorrow! But what room was that? ... He looked
strange bed and everything around him. Reality suddenly assaulted his brain, paralyzed by the
first splendor sweetly the day. Was emerging from the mental haze the long staircase of his
memory, with a final black and red step: emotions block representing the previous day. And
he had sleep peacefully surrounded by enemies, subjected to an arbitrary power that could destroy
in one of his whims! ...

Upon entering the kitchen, concierge gave news. The Germans were. The regiment encamped in the park
had left at dawn, and after him, others and others. In the village was a battalion occupying
the entire few houses and the ruins of the fire.

The general had also match with his numerous staff. Only the castle was the head of a brigade
they called his aides 'Count', and several officers.

After this news dared to leave the pavilion. He saw his garden destroyed, but beautiful. The
trees bore unmoved the outrages suffered in their trunks.

The birds fluttered with surprise and joy at being masters of space left over by the human flood.

Desnoyers soon regretted his departure. Five trucks were lined up beside the moat to the castle bridge.
Several groups of soldiers carrying out furniture to shoulder huge
as laborers who made a move.

A large object wrapped in silk curtains that Canvas was supplying
the packaging, was pushed by four men to one of the cars.

The owner guessed. Your bathroom: the famous gold tub! ... Then with an abrupt change opinion
felt no sorrow for this loss. Now hated the ostentatious piece, attributing
a fatal influence.

Because of him looked him there. But alas ... Other furniture piled in the truck! ... At this point
could cover the entire extent of their poverty and powerlessness.

He was unable to defend his property, he could not argue with that boss who plundered the castle
quietly, ignoring the presence of the owner. "Thieves! Thieves! "And again he get in the pavilion.

He
spent all morning with his elbow on a table and jaw resting on his hand, like the day before,
leaving you pluck the hours slowly, not wanting to hear the muffled rolling of the vehicles
had samples of his wealth.

Around noon the concierge told him that an officer arrived an hour before drive wanted to see
him.

When leaving the hall he found a captain like the others, with pointed helmet and sheathed, the
uniform color of mustard, red leather boots, sword, pistol, binoculars
and geographical map in a case pending belt.

He looked young, wore a sleeve cuff of the State Mayor.

- Do you know me? ... I did not want to go through here without him.

He said this in Castilian, and Desnoyers experienced a big surprise that all that had in their
long hours of anguish from the previous morning.

- You really do not know me? - German continued, always in Spanish -. I'm Otto ... Captain Otto
von Hartrott.

The old man fell, or rather rolled down the stairs of his memory, to stop at a step distant.
He saw the room, saw his brothers who had the second child. "We put
the name Bismarck, "said Karl.

Then, going back many steps, looked in Berlin during visit to the Hartrott. Otto spoke with pride,
almost as wise as the older brother but he applied his talent to the war. Was a lieutenant and continued
his studies to enter on the staff.

"Who knows if there will be another Moltke?" Said the father.

And the heavy traffic Chichi was baptized with a nickname, accepted by the family. Otto was henceforth
to Moltkecito relatives in Paris.

Desnoyers was surprised at the changes made over the years. Strong that captain and insolent
air, which could shoot him, was the same little boy he had seen running around stay, the beardless
Moltkecito of her daughter laughing ...

Meanwhile, the officer explained his presence there. Belonged to another division. There were many ...
Many! the advancing wall forming a wide and deep from Verdun to Paris. His general had sent him
to maintain contact with the division immediately, but when viewed
in the near the castle, had wanted to visit.

The family is not just a word. He remembered the days he had spent in Villeblanche, when the
family went to live Hartrott for some time with relatives in France.

The officers who had occupied the building retained for lunch at
your company.

One of them casually mentioned to the owner property, implying that he was nearby, but nobody noticed
him. A large Surprise for Captain von Hartrott. And he had made inquiries to find him, grieving
to see him refuge in the room of their goalkeepers.

- You should get out of it: you are my uncle - he said proudly -.

Return to his home where he belongs. My comrades will be pleased to know, are very distinguished
men.

He lamented that after the old man would have suffered. Was not sure what they were such suffering,
but guessed that the first moments of the invasion would have been cruel for him.

- What do you want! - Repeated several times -. It's war.

At the same time that had been held on their property. They had the order to punish with a
preference the assets of the fugitives. Germany wanted the inhabitants remained in their homes,
as if nothing extraordinary occurred. Desnoyers protested ... But if the invaders shot the innocent
and burn their houses! ... The nephew was opposed to that continue
speaking.

He turned pale, as if behind your epidermis spread a wave of ash; his eyes shone, his cheeks
quivered, as well as the lieutenant who had taken possession the castle.

- Are you referring to the shooting of the mayor and others ... I just had to tell the comrades.
Even the punishment has been sluggish, should have destroyed the whole village: they should have
killed as little children and women. We must end the sharp-shooters.

The old man looked at him in amazement.

Your Moltkecito was so dangerous and ferocious as the others ...
But Captain cut the conversation, repeating once again the eternal
and monstrous excuse

- Very horrible, but what you want!

... That's war.

After news of his mother asked, glad to know he was in the South. Had disturbed much the idea
that remained in Paris. With the revolutions that occurred beyond in recent times! ... Desnoyers
hesitated as if he had heard wrong. What revolutions were these? ... But the officer had passed
without further explanation to speak of their own, believing Desnoyers feel impatient to know
the fate of the kindred Germanic.

Everyone was in a great situation.

His illustrious father was president of several companies patriotic - as their years are not
allowed to go to war - and also organized future endeavors industry to exploit the conquered countries.
His brother 'the wise' lecturing about the people that had annex the victorious empire, thundering
against evil patriots who showed weak and narrow in its claims.

The three remaining brothers included in the army to one of them had decorated in Lorraine.
The two sisters, something sad about the absence of their promised, lieutenant of hussars,
were entertained to visit hospitals and ask God to punish the traitor England.

Captain von Hartrott her uncle drove slowly towards the castle. Gray soldiers rigid, which had
hitherto ignored the existence of Don Marcelo, followed him with interest seeing him in friendly
conversation with a staff officer. Guessed that these men went to humanize to him losing his
relentless and aggressive automation.

Upon entering the building, something in his chest contracted with
shudders of anxiety.

Saw empty painful everywhere they did remember the objects they held before the same space.
Rectangular stains betrayed deeper color in the wallpaper site furniture and paintings disappeared.
Which promptly and that man worked good method armband on the sleeve! ... A sadness that he
was cold and ordered the theft came to join outrage of economic man, seeing shades with tears,
stained carpets, objects broken porcelain and glass, all traces of a rude and ruthless occupation.

The
nephew, guessing what he thought, he repeated the eternal excuse: "What to do! ... It's war.
"

But Moltkecito store did not have the regard of fear.

- This is not war - said in a spiteful tone -. It is an expedition of bandits ... Your comrades
are thieves.

Captain von Hartrott soon grew violent stretch.

Separated from the old, looking intently as he spoke softly, whistling something by shaking with
anger. Attention Uncle! Fortunately, he had expressed in Spanish
and could not understand those who were near them.

If allowed to insist on such assessments, was in danger of receiving a bullet in response.
The officers of the emperor not leave insulting. And all in his person demonstrated the ease with
which he could forget about their relationship if he received the order to proceed against Don Marcelo.

He
paused, looking down. What was going to do! ... The captain resumed his kindness, as if he had forgotten
what he had said. Wanted to introduce his comrades. His Excellency
Count Meinbourg, Major General, upon learning that a relative of Hartrott,
relieved it the honor of inviting me to his table.

Guest in his own
house, entered the room, where were many men dressed and mustard-colored
boots. Instinctively appreciated with a quick look at the state the
room. All in good order, nothing broken, walls, curtains and furniture
were still intact. But looking inside the windows monumental again
experienced a feeling painful. Everywhere the dark oak. Had disappeared
two silverware and other ancient porcelain without leaving the slightest
trace as its parts. Had Greetings to respond to serious presentations
was by his nephew, and shook proffered hand with aristocratic Count
neglect. The enemies thought he was with benevolence and a certain
admiration to know he was a millionaire from the distant land where
men get rich quickly.

Suddenly found himself sitting like a stranger
to his own table, eating the same dishes he used his family, served
by men shorn head carrying a crew on even a striped apron. What we
ate was his, the wine came from her store all that adorned the room
had bought him, the trees spread their branches beyond the window
belonged to him also ... And yet, believed to be in this site for
the first time, suffering the discomfort of strangeness and suspicion.
Ate because he was hungry, but food and wine seemed from another planet.

He
was looking with astonishment to these enemies who occupied the same
places of his wife, their children, the Lacour ... Speak German among
themselves, but those who knew the French frequently made use of this
language so that they understood the guest. Those who only speak broken
some words are repeated to the accompaniment of friendly smiles. You
could tell all a desire to please the owner of the castle.

- Are
you going to lunch with the barbarians - said the count to provide
a seat at his side -. Are not you afraid of being eaten alive? ...

The
Germans laughed noisily the grace of His Excellency. All efforts were
demonstrate by their words and gestures that it was false barbarism
attributed to them by the enemies.

Don Marcelo looked at them one
by one. The hardships of war, especially the accelerated speed in
recent days, were visible on their persons. Some were tall, thin,
with a slender angular, others square and chunky, with short neck
and his head sunk between his shoulders. The latter had lost their
adiposity in a month of campaigning, wrinkled skin hanging and flabby
in various parts of the face.  Then came Frobisher's own ship, the Chih' Yuen, in the starboard division, with
the Shan-si as her companion; the Yen-fu and Khu-ling came next, then the Yung-chau and Tung-yen;
while the old Hai-yen and San-chau ended the lines, the fleet thus being composed often vessels,
two of which--the two last named--were practically useless for the fighting line, but were
to be employed as tenders or dispatch vessels as occasion might require.  The seven torpedo-boats
had taken their departure from the anchorage while the War Council on the flagship was in progress,
and had been sent on ahead to the mouth of the river as scouts.  They were to run a distance
of twenty miles out to sea, to ascertain whether there were any of the enemy's ships in the
offing, and then to return with their report to the entrance of the Pei-ho, where the battle
fleet would await their arrival under the guns of the Taku forts.

The torpedo-boats, on their return from the scouting expedition, reported the sea clear of
the enemy's war-ships, and the fleet immediately proceeded on its way to Wei-hai-wei, which
was reached the following afternoon.  Here things were in a state of almost hopeless confusion,
and the troops waiting to be embarked were scattered all over the neighbourhood, foraging the
countryside for provisions on their own account.  Some of the baggage had been put aboard the
transports; some could not be found at all; officers could not find their troops; and the men
themselves did not know their own officers when they saw them: so it was not until the fleet
arrived and the Navy men began to take things in hand that order began to be evolved out of
chaos, and matters to straighten themselves out gradually.

At length, however, the last man, the last horse, and the last rifle were safely got aboard
the transports, of which there were no less than ten, and the fleet with its convoy got under
way for the port of Wi-ju, at the mouth of the Yalu, where the troops were to be disembarked.

The distance from Wei-hai-wei to Wi-ju is a little under two hundred miles, and the voyage
was completed without mishap in about twenty hours, the whole fleet coming to an anchor in
the roadstead just as the first shades of evening were falling.  There being no facilities
at the port for working during the night, the task of disembarkation was deferred until the
following morning, and the soldiers on board the troop-ships seized the opportunity to indulge
in a "sing-song" to while away the evening--the last entertainment of its kind that many of
them were ever to take part in.

The transports were of course anchored nearest the shore, with the war-ships outside of them
for protection in case of a sudden raid by the Japanese fleet; while outside of all, a mile
distant, the seven torpedo-boats steamed constantly to and fro, acting the part of patrol-boats,
and keeping a sharp look-out seaward, for the Chinese would have been caught in a trap had
the enemy appeared while they were lying at anchor in the roadstead, unable to manoeuvre.

Night came down as black as the inside of a wolf's mouth; the air was thick and heavy, difficult
to breathe, and surcharged with electricity; and to Drake, intimately acquainted as he was
with these seas, it seemed that a typhoon was more than probably brewing.  There was a sense
of discomfort and uneasiness in the atmosphere which communicated itself to man and beast,
for in the stillness of the night, in the pauses in the singing and uproar, the horses in their
stalls on board the transports could be heard whinnying and neighing, as though not altogether
at ease. Little balls of electricity came and went on the yards and at the mastheads, like
mysterious signals, presenting a very weird and uncanny effect; and some of the superstitious
Chinese sailors, who had had no previous experience of "Saint Elmo's fire", burnt joss-sticks
and twisted their prayer-wheels, in the hope of scaring away the evil spirits which they averred
were hovering round the ships.

From the moment of joining the Chih' Yuen, Frobisher had been working early and late to get
his ship into proper fighting trim; and being thoroughly tired out by the time that the fleet
anchored, he had turned in for a few hours' well-earned repose.  He seemed, however, to have
been asleep only a few short minutes, instead of some four or five hours, when he was aroused
by a gentle but persistent knocking on his door.

In a moment he was broad awake, out of his bunk, and across to the door, being too cautious,
in face of the stealthy character of the summons, to call a question as to who was there.

Opening the cabin door, he found Drake, who, with a worried and mysterious air, proffered the
request that the captain would come up on deck for a few minutes, if convenient.

"Why, what's the matter, Drake?" asked Frobisher.  "Are there any signs of the storm bursting?"

"Well," was the reply, "it certainly does not look any too healthy.  But it is not on that
account that I have disturbed you.  I believe there is some hanky-panky work going on, sir,
and that's why I want you to come on deck and see for yourself."

"I'll be up in a minute," replied the captain; and in less than the time specified he had pulled
on his trousers, flung a greatcoat over his shoulders, and was standing by Drake's side at
the taffrail.  "Now, what is the business?" he said.

"It's got something to do with that Prince chap, or I'm a Dutchman," was Drake's reply.  "I
was leaning over the rail here, a little while ago, thinking of nothing in particular--for
Lieutenant Sing is on duty until midnight--when I saw a light appear suddenly away in that
direction," pointing.  "There was nothing out of the way in that, you'll say; but this light
was a red one, and, what's more, somebody was holding it in his hand, and was waving it about.
That lantern, to my mind, was a signal; for after waving it for a few minutes, the man who
held it began to open and close the slide rapidly, as though sending a message by flash-light.
I don't know the Morse code of flash telegraphy, and for aught I know it may not have been
Morse; but it certainly was a signal, and when I tell you that it came from the Ting Yuen,
and from the same cabin, so far as I can judge, as the `helio' message was sent from at Tien-tsin,
you will see why I thought it best to call you."

"You were quite right, Drake," replied the captain.  "There was something very queer about
that business at Tien-tsin; and from what you say, it would seem that the same man is playing
the same trick here.  I only wish I could catch him at his dirty work.  It seems strange to
me that nobody on board the flagship has got an inkling of--well, we will say, the unknown
man's game.  Or perhaps it is that they do suspect, but dare not speak?  Did you by any chance
catch sight of an answering light of any sort?"

"I was just coming to that," replied Drake.  "I did.  When the first set of signals was finished,
the red light disappeared, and away in the offing another red light showed.  That's what really
made me come down and rouse you."

"Perhaps it may have come from our own torpedo-boats," suggested Frobisher.

"No," replied Drake, "it came from a spot beyond them, and--there you are, sir; look there!
There's the light again on the Ting Yuen.  Now, watch for the light from seaward in reply."

Frobisher did not do so, however.  Without even answering, he darted forward, gave a few low-voiced
orders, and then came back to Drake. Immediately afterwards could be heard the sound of bare-footed
seamen running about, carrying out some duty, and then a man stepped up to the captain and
announced that all was ready.

"Very well; wait for the signal," was Frobisher's reply, and he turned his eyes seaward, watching
for the answering flash.  A second later it came; and as it winked out, the captain placed
a whistle in his mouth and blew three short calls.

In an instant the Chih' Yuen's great search-light blazed out, to the astonishment of Drake
and sundry other folk, and began to sweep slowly and steadily back and forth across the horizon.
The light on the Ting Yuen vanished instantly, Frobisher noticed, and the one to seaward went
out immediately afterward.  But the vessel from which it had been shown could not put herself
out of sight so easily.

The beam of the search-light hesitated a moment, and then settled unwaveringly upon a little
vessel about five miles away.  She circled and dodged, but all to no purpose; she could not
escape that unblinking ray, which followed her, relentless as fate, revealing every detail
on board her as distinctly as though she were under the light of day.

That she was a destroyer was at once apparent; there could be no mistaking the long, low, clean-cut
black hull, with the four squat funnels and the short signal-mast.  Nor could there be any
doubt as to her nationality.  Chinese she was not, China possessing no boats of that description;
and since she was lurking in that particular spot under the cover of night, there was only
one thing she could possibly be--a Japanese scout.  The locality of the Chinese fleet had been
discovered, thanks to the traitor in their midst, and the destroyer would now return to her
parent fleet with her report; and, unless the Chinese were very careful, they would be caught
in the roadstead, like rats in a trap.

Frobisher watched the flying shape of the destroyer, undecided whether or not to try a shot
from his heavy guns; but he soon realised that, by the time that the gun could be loaded and
trained, the chances of making a hit would be small indeed.  He therefore ordered the search-light
to be kept going in case any other similar craft should be lurking in the offing, and, after
a few words to Drake, went below and dressed himself fully.  Then, late as it was, he ordered
his gig, and had himself pulled across with all speed to the Ting Yuen.  He smiled grimly as
he pictured Admiral Ting's face when he should hear what he was about to tell him.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN.

THE BATTLE OF THE YALU.

Directly he got on board the flagship, Frobisher, through his interpreter, sent a message to
the admiral, asking whether he would see the captain of the Chih' Yuen immediately, upon urgent
business, and alone; for the Englishman had no mind to have the interview interrupted by the
presence of Prince Hsi.  Whatever happened, that individual must be kept in ignorance of the
fact that his treachery was so strongly suspected as to be almost a certainty, otherwise he
would be on his guard; and it was Frobisher's intention, if Admiral Ting agreed, to leave the
man in ignorance of the suspicions he had aroused, until he should grow careless and over-bold,
and then to pounce suddenly upon him and catch him red-handed.  The Englishman knew that unless
the man were actually caught in the act, so that there could be no possible doubt as to his
treachery, he possessed sufficient money and influence to worm himself out of almost any predicament,
however strong appearances might be against him.

Fortunately the admiral was still awake, and, what was more to the point, was alone; and he
immediately sent back word by the messenger that if Captain Frobisher would kindly step down
into the cabin, he would grant him the interview, with pleasure.

Frobisher descended to the admiral's private quarters, dispensing with the services of the
interpreter--since Ting spoke English--thereby ensuring that the conversation should be strictly
private.  Then he proceeded to give as succinct an account as possible of the occurrence that
had just happened, not hesitating to express the opinion that Prince Hsi was playing the role
of traitor.

Admiral Ting was much alarmed at hearing that a Japanese destroyer had been detected prowling
about in the offing, but did not express any surprise when Frobisher mentioned his suspicions
about the Prince. Indeed, he admitted that, although he had nothing definite to go upon, he
had for some time past been extremely doubtful as to Hsi's loyalty to his country. 

Don Marcelo became accustomed gradually to the shooting, which appeared to create a vacuum within
his skull. Gnashed his teeth, clenched his fists at every blast, but remained motionless, no
desire to leave, dominated by the violence of the explosions, admiring the serenity of these
men who gave their orders straight and stirred cold or as humble servants thundering beasts around.

All
his ideas seemed to have blown up, blown by the first shot.

Your brain only live the present moment. Eyes turned strongly to the red and white flag waving
on the building.

"It is a betrayal - he thought - a disloyalty."

Far away, across the Marne, also threw the French guns. It was evident work by small yellowish clouds
floating in the air, columns smoke that arose in various parts of the landscape, where German
troops were hidden form a line that was lost in the infinite.

An atmosphere of protection and respect seemed to wrap the castle.

Dissolved the morning mists, the sun was finally shining and clean your disk, extending on the
ground the shadows of men and trees with a fantastic length. Emerged from the fog hills and forests,
fresh and dripping after morning ablutions. The valley remained entire exposed. Desnoyers saw
with surprise the river from the place he occupied. The barrel open during the night had large
windows in the woods that they had hidden. What surprised him most morning contemplating this
landscape, smiling and childish, it was not seeing anyone absolutely nobody. Thundering peaks
and trees, without showing a single person. Over a hundred thousand men should be lurking in space,
covering his eyes, and not one was visible. The roar deadly weapons to shake the air did not
stop it no optical fingerprint. There was no smoke that the explosion lifted the black spiral large
shells exploding in the ground. These columns arose from all sides. Encircled the castle as a
round of gigantic and black tops, but none were ordered out of the daring run forward to touch
the building. Don Marcelo was watching the flag. "It a betrayal, "he repeated mentally. But
while accepted by selfishness, seeing it a defense of his property.

The battalion had finished installing wall along the riverfront. Soldiers kneeling, supported
their rifles in loopholes and battlements. They seemed satisfied with this rest after a night
of fighting in retreat. All eyes seemed to be asleep open. Little by little dropped on the heels,
or seeking the support of the backpack. Sounded snoring in a short space of silence that left
the artillery. The officers, standing behind them, examining the landscape with their glasses
or spoke forming campaign groups. Some appeared disheartened, others furious at the setback
had been doing from the previous day, the most, remained peaceful, with the passivity of obedience.
The front line was immense: who could guess the end? ... They were removed and colleagues
elsewhere would be moving forward with a decisive move. Until the last instant no soldier knows
the fate of battles.

What hurt them was seen to all increasingly far from Paris.

Don Marcelo saw a circle of glass shine. It was a monocle fixed upon him with aggressive insistence.
A lieutenant thin, tight-waisted, which retained the same look of
officers he had seen in Berlin, a real junker, was a few steps, sword
in hand, behind of his men, as a pastor, grim and angry.

- What are
you doing here? - Said roughly.

He explained that he owned the castle. "Honestly?" Kept asking the lieutenant. "Yes, French ..."
The officer was hostile meditation, feeling the need to do something against this enemy. The
gestures and shouts of other officers pulled him to his reflections.

Everyone looked to him high, and the old are imitated.

From an hour before the air passed through dreadful roar enveloped in yellowish vapors, shreds of
cloud that seemed to carry inside a wheel turning frantic squeals. They were the heavy artillery
shells Germanic pulling several miles, sending his shot over the castle. Could not this be
what the officers interested. Contracted his eyelids to see better, and finally, near the edge
of a cloud made out a mosquito species injured by the sun shining. In the brief intervals of silence
hobbled, faint and far, reports of his presence. The officers shook their heads: "Franz." Desnoyers
felt the same. I could not imagine the two black crosses inside their wings. Saw two rings with the
thought tricolor, equal to the rounds that color cloaks flying butterflies.

Explained

the concern of the Germans. The French aircraft had been immobilized for a moment the castle, paying
no attention to the white bubbles exploding underneath and around him. In vain the cannon
immediate positions placed their shells. Turned rapidly away toward its starting point.

"You should have seen it all - thought Desnoyers -. We have noticed:
he knows what's here.

"

He guessed that was going to quickly change the course of events. All that had happened to then
in the early hours of the morning was irrelevant compared to what
would later.

He was afraid, irresistible fear of the unknown, while curious, anxiety, impatience is a danger that
threatens and just never arrive.

A loud explosion rang out of the park, but a short distance from the wall: something like to
a giant hack with an ax as big as his castle. Drinking flew through the air whole tree, multiple trunks
split in two, with hair black land of weeds, a stream of dust that obscured the sky. Some
rocks rolled down the wall.

The Germans shrunk, but without visible emotion. They knew this, awaiting his arrival, as inevitable
after seeing the plane. The flag with the red cross could not deceive the enemy gunners.

Don Marcelo had no time to recover from his surprise, a second blast closer the wall ... third
inside the park. He thought he had jumped suddenly to another world. He saw men and things through
a fantastic atmosphere raging, destroying cutting all the violence of its waves. Had remained motionless
with terror, and But not afraid. He had previously imagined fear in different ways. I felt an
emptiness in the stomach distressing. Repeatedly hesitated on his feet, as if someone pushes him
giving a blow to the chest to straighten immediately afterwards with a new blow back. An acid
smell spread in the environment, making breathing difficult, making eyes up to the sting of
tears. In contrast, the noises ceased to bother him: no existed for him. The guess on the air
waves in the shock of things, in the whirlwind stooped to men, but did not affect the interior.
Had lost ability to hear: the full force of his senses focused on the eyes. Her eyes seemed
acquire multiple facets, such as certain insects. He saw what was happening in front of his person,
at his side, behind him.

And witnessed amazing things, snapshots, as if all rules of life had just undergone a capricious
disorder.

An officer who was launched a few paces inexplicable flight. Began to rise, no lose their military
stiffness, with the helmet on his head, frowning, blond mustache and short, and color below chest
mustard, gloved hands that held a pair of binoculars and paper. But here ended their individuality.
The legs were gray spats left on the ground, lifeless, and empty bags, expelling the deflated its red
content.

The trunk, the violent rise, the bottom fell out as a pitcher, releasing their contents viscera.
Further, some gunners who were lying right appeared suddenly and motionless, smeared with purple.

The
line of infantry was smashed on the floor. The men were contracted to be less visible next to
the loopholes by poking their guns. Many had been placed the bag over the head or the back
to defend them from the shell helmets. If moved, was to fit best in the land, seeking dig your belly.
Several they had changed their position with a rapidity inexplicable. They were now lying on his back
and seemed to sleep. One had even opened the abdomen, showing between the rents meat loose fabric,
blue and red, which rose and swelled with bubbling expansion. Another had lost their legs. He
also saw eyes wide with surprise and pain, mouth round and black lips that seemed to shake
with a howl.

But no shouting, at least he heard their cries.

Had lost track of time. Do not know if this immobility had several hours or one minute. The only
thing that bothered him was the trembling of the legs, which could sustain ... Something fell behind
him. Debris rained down. Turning his head he saw his château. Tower had just steal half. The
boards were scattered in tiny fragments, the blocks crumbled, the
stone box of a window was loose and kept in balance as a rack.

The old timbers of the cap began to burn like torches.

The sight of the instantaneous change of ownership was impressed more than the ravages by death.
He realized the horror of the blind and implacable forces that raged around him. Life concentrated
in his eyes spread, down to your feet ... And started running, not knowing where to go, feeling
the same need to hide those experiencing men chained by the discipline
required to flatten the ground, to envy the soft invisibility of the
reptiles.

His instinct pushed him to the pavilion, but in the middle of the avenue the other cut him
off the amazing mutations. An invisible hand had just started a half backwards the roof. An entire
wall is folded canvas, forming a cascade of bricks and dust. Were exposed internal parts as well
as theater decor, the kitchen where he had eaten, the top floor with
the bedroom, still kept his bed unmade.

Poor women! ...

He stepped back, running towards the castle.

He remembered the cave where he spent locked overnight. And when he saw under the dark vault
had it for the best rooms, praising the wisdom of its builders.

The silence was returning underground hearing sensitivity. Heard by storm muffled by the distance
the bombardment of the Germans and the outbreak of the French shells. Came to his memory that
he had lavished praise the barrel of 75 without knowing more than by reference. And had witnessed
its effects. "Tira too well," he murmured. Soon time was about to destroy his castle was too much
perfection ... But soon repent of these lamentations of their selfishness. One idea is tenacious
as remorse had clung to his brain. It seemed that all that suffering was an expiation for the lack
committed in his youth. Had avoided serving his country, and was now involved the horrors of war,
with the humility of a passive and helpless, without the satisfactions the soldier, who can
fight back. I was going to die, he was sure, with a death disgraceful, inglorious one, anonymously.
The debris from their property will serve as grave.

And the certainty of death in the darkness like a rodent that is clogged the holes in her den,
began to make intolerable this shelter.

Remained above the storm. A clap of thunder seemed to burst upon his
head, and then the crash of a collapse.

A new shell had fallen on the building. Heard roaring in agony, screaming, headlong rush into
the ceiling. Perhaps the shell, with its blind fury, was torn to many of the dying who occupied
the rooms.

He feared being buried in the shelter, and jumps up the ladder to the underground. Al go through
the ground floor saw the sky through the broken roof.

From the edges hung pieces wood, wobbly bits of pavement, furniture arrested in the middle of its
fall. Stepped debris to pass through the hall, where there were rugs, tripped over broken and
twisted iron, beds fragments rained from the top of the building, believed to distinguish
members convulsive among the piles of rubble, heard distressing voices could not understand.

He
ran with the same yearning for light and air that pushes the castaway to the cover from the
bowels of the ship ... He had spent more time than he imagined from who took refuge in the
dark. The sun was high. He saw more bodies in the garden tragic and grotesque attitudes. The wounded
moaned bent or remained on the ground leaning back against a tree, with a painful silence. Some
had opened the backpack to get his bag and took care health healing the tears in his flesh. The
infantry fired their guns incessantly now. The number of shooters had increased. New groups
of soldiers entered the park: one with his sergeant at the front, others followed by an officer
carrying a revolver against his chest, as if he would guide to men.

Infantry was expelled from their positions along the river, coming to reinforce the second line
of defense. The guns joined the tac-tac of the loom in motion snap the rifle.

Space whistling, scratching incessantly by a swarm abejorreo invisible. Thousands of blowflies
sticky Desnoyers moved around without sees them. Crusts tree jumped, driven by hidden nails;
rained leaves, stirred the branches with balancing contradictory departed the paving stones,
impelled by a mysterious foot. All inanimate objects seemed to take a fantastic life. The
zinc buckets of soldiers, the metal parts of your computer, cubes of artillery, rattling alone
as if they received a hail impalpable. He saw a gun lying with broken wheels and high, and many
men who seemed to sleep, he saw soldiers tended and folded the head
without a cry, without a twitch, as if sleep instantly dominate.

Other howled crawling or walking with hands on belly and buttocks touching the floor.

The old man felt a sharp sensation of heat.

An explosive perfume drug stabbing mourn him and scratched his throat. At the same time was cold,
he felt his face frozen in an icy sweat.

Had to depart from the bridge. Several wounded soldiers to spend with them into the building,
notwithstanding that it fell into ruins. Suddenly received a liquid spray head to foot, as if the
earth opened, giving way to a torrent.

A shell had fallen into the pit, raising a huge column of water, blowing into fragments tents
sleeping in the mud breaking a part of the edges, turning white powder balustrade with vases
flowers.

Was launched to run with the blindness of terror, looking suddenly to a small circle of Crystal looked
at him coldly. It was the junker, the officer's monocle. Relapsed into their hands ... He
pointed to the end of his gun two blocks that were in walking distance. Should fill in the gap and
give drink to his men, suffocated by the sun. The imperious tone brooked no argument, but Don
Marcelo tried to resist. Is serving as a servant to the Germans? ... His surprise was short.
Received a blow from the butt of the gun in the chest and while the other hand Lt. closed fell
on his face.

The old man bent: he wanted mourn, I wanted to die. But neither wept nor life slipped away
from his body before this affront, as he wished ... Was seen with two buckets in their hands filling
in the pit, then going along the line of men, who left the gun to suck the liquid with panting
eagerness beasts.

Caused him no longer fear the stridency of invisible bodies. His wish was to die, I knew that
was bound to die. His sufferings were too: in the world there was no space for him. Had to go to
breaches in the wall by the explosion of shells.

No remaining obstacles to his vision for these breaks. Fences and trees were modified or deleted
with artillery fire. Distinguished at the foot of the hill that was in his castle several columns
of attack that had crossed the Marne. The assailants were detained by the heavy fire from
the Germans. Hopped by companies, lying in the shelter after of the folds of the land to let the
blast of death.

The old man was encouraged by a desperate resolution, and that he would die, who killed him French
bullet. And walked upright, with his two buckets, lying to those men fired. Then, with sudden awe, stood
still, burying his head between his shoulders, thinking that the bullet that was a danger he
could receive less for the enemy. Was better Germans to be killed ... And he began to cherish
the idea mentally to pick up a weapon any of the dead, falling on the junker he had slapped.

For the third time I was filling buckets and looked back at the lieutenant, when it happened something
unlikely, absurd, something that reminded him of the fantastic cinema mutations. Suddenly disappeared
officer's head, two blood pumps jumped from his neck and the body collapsed like an empty sack.
At the same time a cyclone passed over the wall between it and the building, toppling trees,
dumping guns, taking people as if they were swirling leaves.

He guessed that the death was blowing in a new direction. Until then I had come from the front,
part of the river, breaking the enemy line bermed on the wall. Now, with the suddenness of atmospheric
change, coming from the back of the park. A skillful movement of the assailants, the use of a lane,
maybe a retreat the German line, had allowed the French to drop their guns in a new position,
flank beating the occupants of the castle.

It was fortunate for Don Marcelo slowing few minutes at the edge of the trench, sheltered by the
mass of the building. Dash battery went to hide along the avenue, sweeping the living, destroying a
second time to the dead, killing the horses, breaking the wheels parts, blowing a gun-carriage
with flames of a volcano, in which red and blue background black
bodies leaping.

He saw hundreds of fallen men, saw horses running treading guts. The harvest of death had not
been for sheaves: whole field was smooth with sickle-one punch. And if the batteries in front divined
the disaster, stepped meanwhile the fire, sending a rain of shells. Fell on all sides. Beyond the
castle, at the end of the park, opened a crater in the woods that
vomited whole logs.

The projectiles pulled from their graves to the dead buried yesterday.

Those who had not kept throwing down the wall openings. Then they got up to precipitation. About arming
the bayonet, pale, her lips tightened and a brightness of madness in the eyes, others turned their
back, running toward the park exit, ignoring the cries of the officers and to the revolver
shots made against the fugitives.

All this happened with dizzying speed, as a nightmarish scene. Across the wall sounded like the
hum rising tide. He heard screaming, he thought he heard voices hoarse and discordant singing the
Marseillaise. The guns worked with speed, as machines sewing. The attack was about to get stuck
again by the furious resistance. The Germans, mad with rage, threw and threw. In a gap appeared red
kepi, legs of the same color trying to pass on the rubble. But the vision faded instantaneously
under the spray guns.

The attackers should fall in heaps on the other side of the wall.

Desnoyers did not know with certainty how the mutation was performed. Suddenly he saw the red trousers
within the park. Passed with irresistible jump over the wall, slid down the gaps, fund came
from the woods by invisible entries. Soldiers were small, square, sweaty, with his coat unbuttoned.
And mixed with them in the clutter load, handles African devil's eyes and foaming mouths, wide
breeches Zouaves, hunters blue uniform.

German officials wanted to die. With his sword held high, after having exhausted the shots of their
guns, they advanced against the assailants, followed by the soldiers who have obeyed them. There
was a crash, a hodgepodge. The old man thought the world had fallen into silence. The cries of
the combatants, the encontrón of bodies, the din of arms, not represented
anything after the guns had fallen silent.

He saw men stuck in the belly at the end of a rifle, while a red tip sticking out through your
kidneys, butts in high falling like hammers opponents embraced rolling on the floor, pretending
mastered with kicks and bites. Gone are the mustard-colored breasts, only saw color behind the
fleeing toward the exit of the park, filtering through the trees, falling in mid-career hit
by bullets. Many of the attackers wanted to pursue the fugitives and could not, engaged in rude
jerks release with a bayonet of a body that held in agonizing spasms.

Soon found Mr. Marcelo in the midst of these fatal crashes, jumping like a child shaking hands,
shouting loudly. Then he woke again, bearing in his arms dusty head of a young officer looked
at him in amazement. Maybe you thought a fool to receive his kiss, to hear their incoherent words,
to receive on their cheeks a rain of tears. He kept crying when the officer came off rude shove
him ... needed to vent after many days of quiet agony: Vive la France!

His men were already at the park entrance. Ran ahead with a bayonet in monitoring of the last
remnants of the German battalion that escaped into the town.

A group of riders spent on the road. Dragons were coming for extreme persecution. But his horses
were exhausted, only the fever of victory, which seemed to be transmitted from men the beasts, and
held his trot forced and painful. One of these riders were stopped by the park entrance. The
horse eagerly devoured a few weeds, while the man stood hunched in his chair as if asleep.
Desnoyers touched on one hip, he wanted to wake him, and immediately
rolled to the opposite side.

He was dead, guts hanging out of his abdomen. So he advanced on his horse, trotting confused
with others.
Began to fall near tops huge iron and smoke. German artillery had
fire on their lost positions. Continued progress. Passed battalions,
squadrons, batteries, towards the North, tired, dirty, covered in
dust and mud, but with a inflaming galvanizing forces nearly exhausted.
The French guns began to throne by the people.

Groups of soldiers
were exploring the castle and the trees immediately. Room in ruins
of the depths of the caves, thickets of the park, stables and garages
on fire, men were emerging green with her head pointed.  But, as so often happens, greed and dishonesty,
self-seeking and cowardice on the part of high officials, nullified the efforts of the brave
seamen who unavailingly gave their lives for their beloved country.

When Frobisher, intending to ram the Yoshino, came to look about him, his heart sank as he
saw the havoc that had been wrought among the rest of the Chinese squadron.  But, alas! worse
by far was yet to come.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note.  The term "echelon" means, literally, "steps", or a zig-zag formation of columns, such
as is shown in sketch Number 2, where the Japanese formation has been altered from "line ahead",
as in sketch Number 1, to "echelon."

CHAPTER NINETEEN.

CAUGHT AT LAST.

The Yen-fu and the Tung-yen were mere motionless hulks, lying inert upon the bosom of the sunlit,
shot-torn sea, the one with her rudder and propeller blown away by a torpedo that had all but
sent her to the bottom, the other with her engines badly broken down, the result of Chinese
officials having stolen and disposed of many parts, which had had to be roughly replaced at
the last moment.  They were both fighting fiercely, however, like tough old wolves at bay,
and, although hemmed in by several Japanese cruisers, were as yet giving back almost as good
as they got.  The game was up for them, though, as they were quite unable to manoeuvre, and
only the thickness of their armour and the light calibre of the guns of the ships opposed to
them had prevented them from going down long before.  Frequently, too, Frobisher noticed, there
were long pauses between the discharges of the Yen-fu's and the Tung-yen's great guns, as well
as those of others of the Chinese ships; and he made a shrewd guess that these were the occasions
when the faulty, charcoal-filled cartridges failed to explode.  The Shan-si, with Captain James
in command, was practically the only entirely undamaged ship still possessed by the Chinese--not
because she had not been in the thickest of the fight, for she had, but just through one of
those curious chances of warfare which are constantly occurring.  She was doing sovereign service,
rushing here, there, and everywhere, planting her shells coolly and accurately, and sweeping
the Japanese decks with rifle and machine-gun fire; and many were the attempts made by the
enemy's destroyers to torpedo her and put her safely out of harm's way.  But, thanks to her
captain's skill and his personal care of everything pertaining to his ship, neither was she
badly hit, nor did her machinery break down at a critical moment; and she went her relentless
way, dealing death and destruction about her unchecked.

The Yung-chau and Kau-ling were being engaged by the Hiroshima, Naniwa (a ship afterwards celebrated
in the Russo-Japanese war), and the Okinoshima--each of which was much larger than either of
the Chinese ships--and were getting a terrible punishing.  Although still moving, and more
or less under control, they were leaking steam and smoke from every crevice and opening, and
ominous spirals of smoke were filtering up through the Yung-chau's decks.  She had been set
on fire close to her bunkers by a Japanese shell, and, almost in less time than it takes to
write it, was a mass of roaring, spouting flame, for she was old, and blazed like a volcano.
Her men--such of them as could reach the decks--jumped overboard, and were hauled by ropes
up the sides of whichever ships happened to be nearest; for the Japanese, like their opponents,
had discarded all their boats and pontoons before going into action.

The Chen Yuen and Ting Yuen were busily engaged in hammering away at the biggest of the enemy,
the Yoshino, the Shikishima, Fuji, and Niitaka, and it was to relieve the two battleships,
which were being somewhat severely handled, that Frobisher determined to charge the Yoshino
with his ship.

Signalling once more for full steam, and firing as he went, according to his former tactics,
he drove the Chih' Yuen at her utmost speed toward the Japanese flagship, which by this time
had lost one of her military masts and her forward funnel, from whose torn base smoke and flame
were pouring voluminously, wrapping the conning-tower round as though with a black mantle,
and utterly preventing her skipper from seeing what was going on.  He, poor man, was obliged
to rely entirely upon the discretion of the gunnery-lieutenant in her forward turret; and that
this individual was doing his duty well was proved by the frequency with which his guns boomed
out, sending shell and solid shot spattering against the heavily-armoured sides of the Chinese
battleships, where they splintered and burst, cracking and starring the thick steel, but very
seldom penetrating to their vitals, close though the range was.

As the Chih' Yuen clove her way through the water, one of the Japanese destroyers discharged
a torpedo at her, which missed her by inches only. It was not wasted, however, for it struck
the disabled Yen-fu, which heeled over as though pressed by some gigantic hand, and a few minutes
later went down, taking her crew with her.

The Hiroshima also tried to ram in her turn, leaving the stricken Kau-ling for that purpose;
but she also was too late.  The Naniwa and the Shikishima saw the Chih' Yuen approaching, like
the messenger of death she was, and backed away from their opponents; the Fuji turned her guns
on the approaching vessel; but the Yoshino's captain, blinded by smoke from the wrecked funnel,
did not see what was coming until it was too late, and a moment later the Chinese ship crashed
into his stern, unfortunately striking a glancing blow instead of a direct one, as Frobisher
had intended.

It was severe enough, however, to make the Yoshino shiver from stem to stern, from truck to
keelson; and as the Chih' Yuen drove past, Frobisher saw that he had sliced a great gash in
her port quarter nearly down to the water-line, and dismounted both the guns in her after turret.
The attempt had not entirely succeeded, but it had done a great deal of damage, and with that
he had to be content.

Then, as Frobisher circled his ship round to come into action again, he saw something that
made him gasp with astonishment and apprehension. There was a fight of some sort going on upon
the deck of the Chinese flagship herself!  What on earth could it mean?  She had not been close
enough to any of the enemy's ships to enable them to board her, and, moreover, they were Chinese
sailors, not Japanese, who were fighting. What could possibly have happened?  The seamen on
board were entirely devoted to their admiral, and if any mutiny had arisen it must be through
the machinations of some other person, some traitor who had seized this opportunity to--

By Jove, he had it!  All his old suspicions came thronging into his mind in an instant, and
in that same instant he believed he could make a very good guess at what had occurred.  Of
course it was that scoundrel, Prince Hsi, who was at the bottom of the mischief; Frobisher
seemed to know it instinctively.  He also recollected the numerous occasions on which his Highness
had acted in an extremely suspicious manner, to say the least; and it did not take him long
to guess that he was now beholding the consummation of a plot up to which Hsi had been leading
for some considerable time past.  But what had happened to Admiral Ting, he wondered, that
Prince Hsi should have matters all in his own hands? Frobisher knew that so long as the gallant
admiral was alive, or conscious, he would never permit his command to be taken from him thus;
and his heart fell, for he feared that the traitor, to attain his detestable ends, must first
have killed the brave old man.

Well, Frobisher vowed to himself, the traitor should not succeed in his scheme, whatever it
might be, even though he had to board the Ting Yuen himself, and slay Prince Hsi with his own
hands, to avenge the death of the admiral.

And then he saw what it was that the traitor prince intended.  The commotion on the deck of
the flagship had ceased, the mutineers having either slain or driven overboard all those who
opposed them, and, while Frobisher's ship was still some distance away, he saw the Chinese
flag flutter down from the Ting Yuen's peak, to be immediately replaced by the Japanese naval
ensign; and the ship herself swung round in the direction of the enemy's squadron and began
to forge ahead toward it, Prince Hsi having evidently determined to turn his guns against his
own countrymen.

As the Japanese ensign fluttered aloft there fell a sudden silence over both fleets.  As though
by mutual consent every gun was hushed for a few moments, and hoarse, stern, and menacing above
the strange stillness rose a roar of execration from the throats of the Chinese, as they at
last realised the meaning of the extraordinary scene that had just taken place aboard the flagship.

Defiantly her captain trained his guns on the nearest Chinese ships and fired; but whether
his gunners could not bring themselves to the actual point of firing on their country's flag,
or whether it was due to the excitement of the moment, every shot missed, and a shout of derision
went up from the Chinese squadron.

But Captain Frobisher knew that curses and shouts of execration would not bring back the Ting
Yuen.  If she was to be saved to the Chinese Navy she must not be allowed to gain the shelter
of the Japanese main body.  If she reached that, she would be lost for ever, and the day would
be lost beyond hope of redemption for the Chinese.  To lose one powerful battleship, and to
find another suddenly arrayed against them-- for that is what it would of course amount to--would
so weaken the already enfeebled Chinese strength that success would be out of the question;
and the Englishman determined that, come what might, he would prevent the traitor prince from
carrying out his foul intentions.

He shouted a few brief commands to Drake, who vanished like a puff of smoke from the conning-tower;
issued an order to the quartermaster at the wheel; and rang to the engine-room the two short
calls that signified that he required all the power the engines could develop, for a sudden
emergency.  Then he looked to see that his sword was loose in its scabbard and his revolver
fully charged, and waited for Drake to reappear, while the Chih' Yuen, bounding forward under
the full power of her engines, turned her nose toward the stern of the Ting Yuen and kept it
fixed there, relentless as fate.

By this time the cannonade had again become general throughout the fleet, but ringing high
above the crashing roar of the guns could be heard the wild cheering of the Chinamen as they
realised the gallant exploit that the English captain was about to attempt.

Prince Hsi realised it also, and put on full steam to escape, but he was a few minutes too
late.  Before the unwieldy battleship could get into her stride the more nimble cruiser would
be upon her, and, knowing that he could not hope to reach safety before he was overtaken, the
Prince determined to wait and fight the matter out with the Englishman whom he had already
learnt to hate so intensely.  He therefore reversed his engines, trained every available gun
upon the advancing Chih' Yuen, and opened fire.

The cruiser reeled and quivered as the hurricane of shot and shell struck her, but she received
no injury to her vital parts, and was checked not a moment in her headlong course.  Frobisher
had given orders that his fire was to be reserved until he himself gave the word, and he now
watched for that moment as a tiger watches its prey.

A few seconds later the time arrived.  Frobisher pressed the button that let loose the storm
of death upon the flagship, rang off his engines, handed over the command to Drake, who had
just reappeared, and then left the conning-tower.

On the port side of the deck, behind the steel citadel, he found that Drake had already drawn
up the fifty volunteers he had called for, fully armed, and ready to follow their captain wherever
he might choose to lead.

A second later there arose from the Ting Yuen a chorus of yells of astonishment and fury as
the Chih' Yuen, instead of lying off and fighting with her guns, as Prince Hsi had expected,
ground her sides against those of the flagship, and came to a standstill right alongside.

Frobisher shouted a word of command to the expectant sailors, and led them round the citadel,
across the cruiser's decks, and up on to those of the battleship, before the Ting Yuen's men
realised what was happening.  Most of the latter had thrown off their cutlasses, the better
to handle their guns, and it was on their unpreparedness that Frobisher relied when he led
his fifty boarders to the attack.

Like a whirlwind he swept down upon the rebel seamen, who stood petrified with alarm and astonishment
beside the now useless guns, and the broad-bladed cutlasses rose and fell for a few seconds
to the accompaniment of shrieks and yells for mercy.  But Frobisher, with his small force,
could not afford to give quarter until it was certain that there would be no more resistance;
and, much as he detested the butchery, he simply dared not stay his hand.  Forward and upward
he and his men cut their way; they encountered more and more opposition every minute, as the
mutineers found time to recover their wits and secure their weapons, but his men would take
no denial.  Their blades, now dyed a deep red, swept through the smoky air, and their revolvers
crackled and blazed merrily, as the Englishman led them forward; and presently, after a stern
and stubborn five minutes' fighting, the rebels broke and fled below--overboard--anywhere to
escape the avenging swords of their outraged countrymen.

So far, Frobisher had seen nothing of Prince Hsi; but the moment the mutineers were broken
and he had released the remnant of the loyal Chinese sailors, he went in search of the arch-traitor
himself, having first headed both ships back toward the Chinese squadron.

The Prince was not in the conning-tower, as Frobisher discovered when he went there with one
of his own helmsmen to send the necessary orders to the engine-room, nor was he in his own
cabin, which was the next most likely place to look for him; and diligently as Frobisher searched,
the man was not to be found.  He appeared to have vanished completely. Perhaps, Frobisher decided,
the traitor had seen that his shameful plot had failed, and had thrown himself overboard to
avoid the consequences of his act.  That, however, did not seem quite like Hsi; he was more
likely to be up to some deeper villainy still; and as this thought occurred to the Chih' Yuen's
captain his blood ran cold, for some sixth sense or instinct seemed to warn him what Hsi was about.

With every nerve tingling, Frobisher darted below and began to search for the magazine, for
it was thither he guessed the traitor had betaken himself; and it was indeed fortunate that
he found it just where he had expected it to be.

The door of the magazine was open, and a man was to be seen inside, with his back to the entrance,
engaged upon his diabolical work by the aid of a carefully-shaded lantern.  Another few seconds
and Frobisher would have been too late, and the ship would have been blown into the air with
all her crew; for the Prince was even then applying a light to the end of the fuse which he
had already cut, the other extremity of which was concealed from view.

Frobisher repressed a shiver of horror, and with one bound flung himself upon the traitor,
dropping sword and revolver as he did so.  This was a case for the use of bare hands alone,
man to man; the discharge of a pistol might only complete Hsi's work for him, and Frobisher
did not feel that he could cut the man down from behind, in cold blood, richly as he deserved
it, and as the man himself would undoubtedly have done, had the positions been reversed.  He
gripped the sacred person of the Prince round the body, and endeavoured to hurl him to the
floor and so stun him; but Hsi was a powerful man, and although taken at a disadvantage, managed
to twist himself so that Frobisher's superior strength expended itself in vain.

Then, with a mighty effort, he wrenched one arm free and seized the Englishman by the throat,
sinking in his fingers with a fury that testified all too plainly to the intensity of his hatred.

Do what he might, Frobisher could not wrench the traitor's fingers away; and although with
his left hand he managed to prevent Hsi from drawing the knife suspended from his belt, he
knew that unless he could release himself from that bulldog grip, he must very soon lose consciousness,
for already his eyes were beginning to protrude, the dim light of the magazine seemed full
of flashing stars and blazing fireworks, and the blood drummed horribly in his ears.  Besides,
good heavens! there was that deadly spark hissing and sputtering its way along the fuse, and
unless it was quenched within a minute, the Ting Yuen and her crew would be flying skyward,
a cloud of splintered steel and dismembered human bodies.

This last thought gave Frobisher back his strength for a moment, and with a herculean effort
he wrenched his throat from Hsi's grip; then, recovering himself quickly, before the Chinaman
had his knife more than half-way out of its sheath, he drew back his arm and struck Hsi a mighty
blow full on the point of the chin.

The Prince's neck clicked like a breaking stick, and he was dashed senseless against the steel
walls of the magazine, falling in a tumbled heap upon the floor.  Without looking to see whether
the man was unconscious or not, Frobisher dashed at the fuse and trampled it fiercely underfoot
until the smouldering spark was entirely extinguished; then, with a sob of relief, he withdrew
its other end from a pile of explosives and tossed it out of the door.

Then he lifted Hsi on his shoulders, carried him out of the magazine, closing the door after
him, and took him to his own cabin, where he deposited the senseless body in its bunk, afterwards
securing the Prince's wrists and ankles firmly with some lengths of rope which he procured
from one of the men.  This done, he locked the door, put the key in his pocket, and went in
search of the admiral, whom he fully expected to find dead.  At the same moment he heard the
Ting Yuen's guns again opening overhead, as her temporary commander brought her into action
once more, and he smiled grimly as he thought that, if Hsi had had his way, the shells from
those very weapons would at this minute have been crashing their way through Chinese hulls,
instead of being directed, as they were, against the Japanese ships.

Frobisher found Admiral Ting lying on the floor of his cabin, his hands lashed behind him,
and senseless from a severe cutlass or sword cut across the forehead.  He had evidently been
cut down while in the conning-tower, and had been brought to the cabin and there secured and
flung down; for the Englishman had noticed a trail of bloodstains on the deck on his way to
Ting's quarters.

In a very short time he had cut the old gentleman adrift, and after a few drops of brandy had
been forced down his throat, Ting quickly revived, and gave Frobisher an account of what had
occurred.

It was short, but to the point.  Hsi had entered the conning-tower with a drawn sword in his
hand, and before the admiral could open his mouth the Prince had ruthlessly cut him down. 
After that the admiral knew no more until he awoke to find Frobisher pouring spirit and water
down his throat.

He was profuse in his thanks to the young Englishman, and, when he had learned from the latter
all that had happened, promised that he would never forget the brave deed by which he had been
rescued from eternal shame and dishonour.  Then, despite his wound, which Frobisher roughly
bandaged, the plucky old fellow insisted upon going on deck again and taking charge.

But when the two men regained the open, what a sight met their horrified eyes!  The Kau-ling,
which, although dismantled, had been fighting bravely when Frobisher led his boarders away,
had disappeared, and the Tung-yen, the engines of which had broken down, had been surrounded
by five Japanese ships, and was even then sinking.  The Yung-chau, which had taken fire early
in the fight, was now but an abandoned, charred wreck; and even the gallant Shan-si and Chen
Yuen, which had done great deeds ever since the beginning, were now terribly damaged. Frobisher's
own ship, a short distance away, under Drake's able seamanship was still giving a splendid
account of herself, but even she, Frobisher's experienced eye could tell, was very badly mauled.

In short, of the ten ships which China had possessed that morning four were destroyed, one
had crept away too seriously damaged to remain in action, one had gone as convoy to the transports,
and the remaining four were all badly damaged.  As for the torpedo-boats, the Japanese destroyers
and smaller cruisers had made short work of them.  Of the seven, three were sunk, one had been
captured, two had fled toward Wei-hai-wei hotly pursued by a big Japanese destroyer, and only
one remained with the remnant of the Chinese fleet.

The Japanese had lost only three small cruisers and a destroyer, so that their fleet was even
now almost as numerous as China's had been at the beginning of the battle.  True, the Yoshino
and the Fuji were little better than wrecks, and the other ships had one and all received a
very severe drubbing; but they were still afloat and more or less under control, while their
undamaged guns now outnumbered those of the Chinese by about six to one.

The odds were too heavy.  To keep on fighting with the four remaining ships against the still
powerful Japanese fleet would be simply throwing those four ships away to no purpose, and shedding
China's best blood without avail.  If those two battleships and two cruisers could still be
retained for China, they would live to fight another day, for with the addition of the southern
squadron, still intact and undamaged, they would once more make up a powerful fleet; but if
they were lost or captured now, that would be the end of them, and possibly the end of China also.

Ting realised all this at a glance, and with a bitter groan ordered the signal to retire to
be hoisted--the enemy to be held at bay, if possible, while the evolution was being carried out.

As it was manifestly impossible for Frobisher to rejoin his own ship, owing to lack of boats,
he took charge as captain of the Ting Yuen in place of the traitor prince, confined below,
and, in company with the other battleship, the Chen Yuen, endeavoured to beat off the Japanese
craft that were manoeuvring to surround the two remaining Chinese cruisers.  And so bold a
front--or rather, rear--did the four ships present that the Japanese before long relinquished
the pursuit, not caring, in view of the success already obtained, to risk losing any more of
their already sadly-battered ships by exposing them to the now-concentrated fire of the big
Chinese ships' eighty-ton guns, the projectiles from which had already done so much damage.

They accordingly drew off and gave up the half-hearted chase, employing the short time still
remaining before darkness fell in effecting some very necessary repairs to their ships; while
the broken remnant of China's northern squadron pursued its halting way toward Wei-hai-wei,
the small torpedo-boat still remaining to them acting as scout in advance, on the look-out
for the Japanese destroyer which, earlier in the day, had left the action in pursuit of a couple
of damaged Chinese torpedo-boats.

In the late twilight they fell in with the destroyer on her return from her unsuccessful pursuit,
the two small craft having succeeded in effecting their escape.  She had evidently anticipated
a complete victory for her own side, and seeing lights in the distance, had made for them,
thinking that, by this time, every ship would be in Japanese hands; and she did not discover
her mistake until she was under the Chinese guns.  Then she attempted to cut and run; but she
was too late. There was a rattle of machine-gun fire which drove her men from the deck torpedo-tubes,
and a few seconds later one of the Chen Yuen's big guns plumped a shell right into her, crumpling
her up like cardboard and sending her to the bottom within a few seconds.  Some--a very few--of
her men were rescued and made prisoners by the Chinese torpedo-boat, but the majority, dead
or disabled from the effects of the bursting shell, went to feed the sharks.

Early the following morning, just after daybreak, the four ships overtook the San-chau and
the transport fleet, which circumstance rejoiced Admiral Ting exceedingly, as he had been extremely
anxious lest they might perhaps have fallen in with some prowling Japanese cruisers and been
snapped up.  Then the war-ships and the transports kept company until they reached Wei-hai-wei,
where they found the little Hat-yen, but recently arrived in a sinking condition, so that it
had been necessary to beach her immediately to save her from sinking at her anchors.

Admiral Ting lost no time in docking such of his ships as there was room for; the others were
run alongside the wharves, to have their guns replaced and their upper-works repaired, after
which they would, one by one, go into dock as their repaired sisters came out.  The admiral
then dispatched to Tien-tsin the San-chau, the only undamaged war-ship, with an account of
the battle; while the torpedo-boat, after a few minor repairs, was dispatched south with a
similar message to Admiral Wong-lih, suggesting that he should bring up the southern fleet,
so that, together, the united squadrons might seek the Japanese fleet and once more give battle,
in an attempt to recover the mastery of the sea, which was of paramount importance to China.

CHAPTER TWENTY.

ON SPECIAL SERVICE.

For the first few days after the return of the fleet to Wei-hai-wei everybody was very fully
employed, including even the admiral himself, who, despite his deep and painful wound, insisted
on being about the dockyard, his head tied up in a bandage, superintending the refitting of
the shattered ships.  Nothing was mentioned with regard to Prince Hsi. That arch-villain had
not even been seen; and Frobisher supposed it was Ting's intention to send him, as soon as
he could spare an escort, to Tien-tsin to stand his trial--a procedure which the Englishman
was inclined to think very likely to end in a farce, since, once among the circle of his rich
and powerful relatives and acquaintance, the man was wily and cunning enough to be able to
extricate himself even out of such a predicament as that in which he was now plunged.

Frobisher had, however, forgotten a certain promise which Ting had made at Wi-ju, at the mouth
of the Yalu, when Prince Hsi had been so very nearly discovered in communication with one of
the enemy's destroyers-- the promise that, if he actually caught the Prince red-handed, so
that there could be no possible doubt about the matter, not all the influence or powerful relations
in China should save him from the fate he would so richly deserve.

There could be little doubt that it was due to the signals sent that night by the Prince to
the destroyer that the Japanese had learned the strength of the Chinese squadron and its destination,
and had thus been enabled to come up in full force, as they had done, and practically annihilate
the northern squadron.  This was not the first nor the second time that Hsi had played the
traitor, although until now there had been no actual proof of his treachery; he was strongly
suspected, for instance, of having brought about the disaster to the transport Kowshing, when
she had been sunk by the Japanese cruiser Naniwa, with over a thousand Chinese troops on board.

Admiral Ting had not allowed his oath to slip his memory, and the old fellow, gentle, kindly,
and courteous though he was to his friends, could be very vindictive when it came to dealing
with evil-doers, especially criminals of the hardened, remorseless type which Prince Hsi had
proved himself to be. It will also be when the season ends, and they all invited to my wedding.
And you, Gabriel, do not think getting married?

- For me, not to
be outdone - I said - I say that when the war will marry me as well.

"And with whom?", You say. Well, I marry a countess.

- With a countess!

- Yes, sir, a countess who possesses all these countries we're seeing and others there, and has
two coats with eight silver and fourteen wolves on pots, with half
head Moor and a sign that says ...

- Take smokehouse and woman who
can spin - Marijuán said, interrupting -.

Did not say who marries a countess? Duchess will be with a mop. But say, what castles your girlfriend
is real?

- This is a simpleton who does not know what is being said - noted D. Diego -. Countess will
Lucida it! Well, as I said, guys, my girlfriend is very upsetting waiting is over the war to
marry me. So I've been told, and I believe. I bet you're raging Find out who he is and what
it's called, but that does not have to lie, because my mother and Mrs. D. Paco told me if I
talked about this before you get the chance, punish me not letting me mounted on the rack. How
beautiful it is, gentlemen! Her eyes are two stars, as that great and very clear that he is on
the roof of the house, her mouth is composed of two sheets of pink, his teeth make all the pearls
make a run of envy, his cheeks are open carnations and when she cries, her tears are diamonds.
I have not seen more that figure, because they have you know that when I went to visit his aunts
in Cordoba, I got a medalloncito with the portrait has to be my wife, which portrait, for fear
of losing me, what I have to keep Mr de Santorcaz.

- That seems - said one of the listeners - the story of Princess Laureola, through whom came of Mecca
three Moorish kings, and tells the story that his eyes were burning jet, the mouth of pomegranate
flowers, and ears of snails from the sea. Did you know?

- That is the romance of the Queen dwells, gross.

What does that have to do with the princess Laureola?

- I know the
romance of the Queen dwells - shouted D. Diego, clapping -.

Did you miss?

- Come.

- No: the railing of the sky, which is more beautiful and speaks of the Virgin - added Condesito, Joyful
able to showcase his skills -.

  My sister taught me presentation,
  who knows twenty-seven
  all tack and said before the
  Bishop of Guadix, when His Excellency
  stood at home last month.

And
  wait until your rogasen, the
  Rumble morgado with school singsong
  voice, sweet and sour and effeminate
  gestures, began the following
  litany:
  
  On the railing of the sky
  a girl walks white, blond
  and red, that shines like a star San Juan tells Jesus "Who is that
girl?"

"Our Lady, good St. John, cute and beautiful our mother "; Virgin is not alone: angels come with
it; does not come dressed in gold, or silver, or silk: comes dressed
in scarlet .... ..........................

And at the end of this
relationship was welcomed with loud applause, the reciter animóse
and saddled us another, equally famous, beginning:

Up at that height,
is a clear source, where the Virgen lava His holy breasts and face
.... ............................

- No more romance! - Santorcaz
suddenly exclaimed, scaring us all with her a break -.

  That is a matter of boys and
  men not formal. Do you know
  more than that?
  
  - I know a lot more - the boy said shyly -.

Don Paco has taught me many, and makes me learn by heart to tell them in the gatherings.

- "Nothing else has taught you that Mr. D. Paco, who from the first moment I and MP for a great
dunce?

- History has taught me also, yes, sir.

And I know what our father Adam and that of Alexander when he went to give battle to the Persians,
and now let us give to the French.

- Is that all?

- Takes!, Also Latin, but my dear mother told not bunged me the head
of Latin, since it was not necessary, and finally D. Paco said to
know a little muse Musa enough.

- What books have you read?

- Nothing
but the Sinners Guide, which is what the hell.

It is very ugly book, and my dear mother would not let me read more
than what the hell, who gives a lot of fear and dreams with it.

But my dear mother has other books in the chest, and when he went to Mass, I very cautiously
pulled them out to read them. One is titled The sputtering, or converted comic, novel written
by a monk minimum, and another, Princess, Whore and martyr, St. Afra. Both books are very nice,
and bring a one of love and kisses, that I was secretly glad Ouando I read them.

Santorcaz smiled. After a pause, he said rather smugly:

- "So you have not read the encyclopedia?

- What is that?

- The Cincopedia - shouted one -.

Hey, do you know where Cincopedia falls?

This word, which acquired fortune that night, was going from mouth
to mouth, and over a hundred the repeated between buzz and chacota.

-
I see that you are around animals - Santorcaz said, a little smart -.

Anyway, Mr. D. Diego, education you received could not be more deplorable in a young primogeniture,
which what it has to stand out from others in society, must cultivate his understanding.

- Well, friend - said Rumble - you tell me stuff that I like. All you I said yesterday, when we
were on the way over here, I was delighted, and I swear that if was on the verge of getting
married and was necessary to continue to tutor, I would tell my dear mother I will put you
in place of D. Paco, which I reached it taught me not geese and more than nonsense.

- As a young man again to occupy such a high position in the world must know something more
than the romance of rail in the sky. Truth is, or I am much mistaken, or all of entails, it
will trap, and sooner or later things will be made so that each is the son of his works.

- It should be - added Marijuán -.

Are not we all God's children?

- Come here and respond - Santorcaz said, arousing the curiosity of
his listeners -.

Is not it seems the world is badly managed?

Several mouths were opened in astonishment, and did not hear any response.

- Well I have not read any book - said at last one of those present - say God has to retake
the world, because that will take you to all who came first the womb, and the others are dancing
pelao is not well.

My brother the oldest, just because you felt like being born before me, has three paddocks and
two houses and others ... had to get a monk, another went to Peru, another is dying of hunger
in a hospital in Seville, and I, gentlemen, I had to get involved in smuggling so as not to I froze
the roof of the mouth.

- Hey, Marijuán - said another - you know
what I had in Seville?

Well, the Board would Sidekick put with the other Boards for removing
many bad things in Spain's government, which we can do without the
French come to show us.

[2]

- It must be - observed Santorcaz -.

I have said that Sevilla are secret societies.

- What is that?

- I know - said a -. Luis is right.

In Sevilla there is what they call flamasones men bad night to come together to make spells
and witchcraft.

- What are you saying? There are no such spells. My master was also to such boards, and when
his wife taunted him, he replied that there were entered in the manner of philosophers and did not
harm anyone.

- Well, in Madrid the secret societies are still in its infancy -
added Santorcaz -.

In France, there are thousands, and everyone fits into them.

- Well if I go to Madrid - the morgado said emphatically - the first thing I will do is get involved
one of these societies, where no doubt be learned very good things. Is not it true, D. Luis?
I have nothing clumsy: I know him, yes, gentlemen. Would you believe, Mr. Santorcaz, that what you
said of entail I had happened to me many times when playing in the
backyard with the chickens?

But since you teach me what I know, answer me to a question: why do we have in our houses many
old papers full of scribbles and why we use these shields with frogs
and snakes?

Of my house has four alligators and a chessboard with two very cute Calderito.

- If these signs represent something - said Santorcaz - is concerning the first of their use
their deeds, if he did, or their privileges, if he had, but today,
my friend, these paintings not worth anything, and within a few years,
that having no money, be a poor ragamuffins, anyone who came over
as well as anyone who has made a fortune work or excel for their talent,
will bienquisto in the world, even if you or a dram lizard on his
shield.

- "So - asked the lad - I'll be a ragamuffins if I lose my
heritage or am I a brute?

This is really good.

- Nothing, nothing - said a -.

Outside primogeniture, and all brothers and females entering to inherit equally.

- That can not be - observed Marijuán - because then there would be large houses overlooking
luster to the kingdom.

- That can not be - said a third -. Why, do the King would be so stupid
that removed primogeniture?

Nothing, nothing, the account will always have it.

- Is that if
the King does not take away, some would remove them - added Santorcaz.

Everyone laughed at hearing support the idea that there is a will
superior to the will del Rey.

- How can that be?

If the King does not want ... Is there anyone who is on top of the
King?

The King commands everywhere, and say whatever they want, no more
than its real sacred will.

Guys, live Fernando VII!

- But come here, dunces - said Santorcaz -.

Do you say that no one commands more than the King?

- No more.

- And if all the Spanish say with one voice: "Do we want this, Mr. King, we feel like the do this
", what would the King?

Were opened everyone's lips again, and nobody could answer.

Footnote # Page #

[2] exact words of the Supreme Junta of Seville.

XIX

- Gaznápiros, animals, if you're proving what I say - he said vigorously D. Luis -. What happens
in Spain, what is? Is that the kingdom has been willing to do one thing and doing, against the advice
of King and Emperor. Three months ago was in a bad Aranjuez Minister King sustained a fool, and
said: "We do not want the Minister or the King" and went Godoy and Charles abdicated. After Ferdinand
VII placed his troops in the hands of Napoleon, and officials all, as the generals and chiefs
of the garrison, were ordered to turn his head to Joachim Murat, but the locals said: "We
do not feel like obeying the King or infants, either to the Council or Board, or Murat ", and stabbed
the French Park and on the streets. What happens next? The new and the old King go to Bayonne,
where they looked the tyrant in the world. Fernando says: "The Crown of Spain belongs to me,
but I gave it to you, Mr. Bonaparte. " And Carlos said: "The Corona is not my son, but mine,
but to end disputes, I gave it to you, Mr. Napoleon, because that is very upset and what you
can fix yourself. " And Napoleon takes the crown and gives it to his brother, while turning
to you says: "Spanish, I know your troubles and I will correct them."

But you rear up with that, and answered: "No, comrade, this does not fit you. If have scabies, we
scraped it: no more King of Spain Ferdinand VII. "Fernando heads to the Spanish and told to
obey Napoleon, but in the meantime, guys, a man who is called mayor of a town two hundred
neighbors write a scrap of paper saying to be armed all the French, this scrap of paper going
from town to town, and like a fuse that set fire to several mines scattered here and there, you
lift your step the nation from Madrid to Cadiz.

For the North goes the same, and the large towns, the same small form their boards, which read:
"No, if this does not send anyone but us. If you do not recognize the abdication, nor admit
to that D. King Joseph, and we feel like to obey the Emperor, because
the Spanish sent in our house, and if the kings have to govern ourselves,
we do not our mothers have given birth to them we lead and bring us
as if we were flocks of sheep ... "Are we?

Do you understand? Well this, no more no less, is what is happening here. And now answer me the
cork oak hear me: who's in charge, who arranges things, who makes and breaks, the king and kingdom?

The
amazement that produced these revealing words in the friendly competition, consisting of boys
rude and ignorant, but very vivid imagination, was so extraordinary that a short time there was not
the slightest voice, a sure sign that the ideas expressed by Santorcaz, coming up suddenly in the dark
cacúmenes of his listeners, there were armed great zipizape and dust, leaving them dazed, confused
and speechless. The first to break Rumble was silence, saying:

- It's all very well said.

"For days will believe that I had a similar idea when I was catching flies and putting them
in a certain part tails so that the fly did laugh my two sisters who were praying? Only I
did not know how to say what I thought.

- Yes, gentlemen, live Boards! - Said one, standing up -. I know that paper memory who took
to the streets of Cordoba, saying ... Hear me, "Córdoba: the kingdoms of Andalusia are undertaken
by the murderers of the North; your country is going to be oppressed
under the yoke a tyrant yourself you shall be plucked from your homes
and your houses.

Forty rings is carving a lascivious Murat to lead you to the north and to the unclean animals
... Soldiers, howl of rage and fury! ... Twelve million people are watching and envying you
your glory, and even France itself forward for your success. "

Loud applause and cheering greeted this proclamation, faithfully recited with dramatic gestures for
the boy.

- Yes the Spanish - then continued Santorcaz - can do what they are
doing, do not can also say tomorrow: "We do not want no more no more
Inquisition Let's say ...?», links ... Or they say: "Instead of a
thousand monasteries, which have so only half, which is more than
enough "or" I feel like there tithes ... "

- That would be good -
said Marijuán -.

But if all the Spanish are going to do that, and each begins to throw
his side saying what she wants, she will become such a labyrinth that
not be interpreted.

- Go around dunces - added Santorcaz -. But come
here, do not you see that is in Seville a Board that is available?
Do you not see that there is another in Granada, Cordoba and another
one in Malaga etc.? Well, instead of all those small governing boards
in each village, can not be a very big meets in Madrid and agree what
to do?

They looked listeners each other, and monosyllables of acquiescence
and admiration ran word of mouth, showing how quickly those young
minds deployed its wings, still stiff and hesitant to try to describe
the first circles in space of thought.

These conversations love with
me - said the young Count of Rumble -.  So strong was this unearthly light that the horizon was plainly
visible in all directions, save away to the northward, and there the blackness was intense.
Not the faintest glimmer of a star was observable through the inky curtain which covered about
ten degrees of the horizon in that direction, but now and again a sudden dazzle of wicked-looking
forked lightning shot across the face of the bank.  As yet, however, there was no sound of
thunder, and the same unearthly stillness prevailed, save when a moaning sound could be plainly
heard as the puffs of hot wind more and more frequently scurried through the ship's wire rigging,
or sobbed weirdly in the hoods of the ventilators.

"There is certainly something pretty bad coming, sir," Drake presently volunteered, unable
any longer to endure the strained silence.  "I have sailed these seas before; and although
I have never seen the sky looking quite so threatening as it does now, there were much the
same premonitions before the great hurricane of 1889, when more than twenty thousand Chinamen
were drowned, and hundreds of junks, sailing ships, and steamers were destroyed, and their
wreckage strewn up and down the coast.  I was in the old Barracouta at the time; and although
she was as well-found a craft as ever I sailed in, I never expected her to live through it.
It would be a queer state of affairs if we were to drop across the enemy now, sir, wouldn't
it?  The men would have a pretty job serving the guns, and no mistake!"

"An action, with a swell such as this running, would be an utter impossibility," was Frobisher's
reply.  "Before long we shall be having all our work cut out to take care of ourselves, without
troubling to attempt the destruction of the other fellow.  And by Jove, Drake!  I believe it's
coming now."

Drake glanced apprehensively behind him, and there, sure enough, just below the inky curtain
of blackness on the northern horizon, which was now being rent in every direction by continuous
lightning flashes, could be seen a long line of whitish colour, which, there could be no doubt,
was approaching the ship with more than the speed of an express train.

Frobisher had scarcely uttered the words before the darkness was rent by the most terrifically
vivid flash of lightning that he had ever seen, while simultaneously the air was shattered
by a clap of thunder of such frightful volume that the cruiser jarred and shivered from stem
to stern, as though she had taken the ground at full speed; indeed, for some seconds Frobisher
was not at all sure that they had not happened upon some uncharted shoal.  And while all hands
were still cringing involuntarily from the shock, there came another dazzling flash of lightning,
apparently within a few yards of the vessel, followed immediately by peal on peal of thunder,
which rolled and reverberated over the sea as though all the great guns in existence were being
fired at the same time within a few miles of them.

Then the rain came down as it only can in those latitudes--as though the bottom of an enormous
tank had been suddenly knocked out; the roar of that colossal volume of water beating on the
deck being such that, although Frobisher put his mouth to Drake's ear and shouted with all
the power of his lungs, the latter could not distinguish a syllable.

For only a few brief seconds did this last; then it ceased as suddenly as though a tap had
been turned off.  An instant later the line of white water appeared, scarcely a hundred yards
distant from the Chih' Yuen's stern.  Frobisher had barely time to yell an order to the men
on deck to "hold on for their lives" before the oncoming wave and the attendant hurricane broke
upon the cruiser.

The wave, black, gleaming, and sinister in the sheen of the lancing lightning flashes, and
capped with a ridge of phosphorescent foam, swept over the cruiser's stern, down upon the quarter-deck,
and then forward, burying the ship in an instant from stern to stem, so that her captain, up
on the navigating bridge, was unable for a few seconds to see anything of his vessel's decks,
the bridge on which he and Drake were standing--or endeavouring to stand--and the tops of the
ventilators being all of the upper-works that showed above the racing turmoil of foam-covered
water.  At the same time Frobisher and Drake were literally jammed against the quivering rails
of the bridge and held there, powerless to move, by the amazing force of the wind.

A perceptible quiver thrilled through the hull of the sturdy vessel as, like a live thing,
she endeavoured to free herself from that enormous weight of water, and a few moments later
she emerged from the swirl, which poured off her decks in cataracts.  Then, rolling herself
free of the rest of her burden, she was carried irresistibly forward on the back of the wave,
like a chip in the current of a mill-race.

Frobisher gave a big sigh of relief as he saw his ship shake herself free.  "A little longer,
Drake, and she would have foundered under our feet," he managed to gasp; "if she had not been
the sturdy craft that she is, she would not have come up again."

"You're right, sir," replied Drake, wiping the spray out of his eyes; "that was a narrow squeak,
if ever there was one.  But hark to the wind! It must be blowing at ninety miles an hour, at
least.  I pray that nothing may get in our way, for we could not possibly avoid it.  A hair's-breadth
out of our course, and the ship would broach to and capsize with us."

Drake spoke truth.  Although the sea was absolutely smooth--every wave-crest being shorn off
by the terrific force of the wind almost before it had time to form--the extremely heavy swell
that had arisen earlier in the evening was still running.  Even the hurricane could not flatten
that, and the Chih' Yuen, driven forward by her own steam and the power of the wind behind
her, rushed down one steep slope and up the next with a speed that made even the most experienced
seaman gasp.  A very slight alteration of the helm, at the speed at which the ship was then
travelling, would certainly suffice to send her reeling over upon her beam-ends, aided by the
"send" of the sea.

Looking round him, after the storm's first wild outburst, Frobisher was horrified to observe
the terrible damage and loss of life that had been caused by that first great rush of water.
Of the men who had been on deck at the time, only some half a dozen poor, draggled, half-drowned
creatures, clinging limply to the nearest support, could be seen; while every movable object
had been swept overboard into the sea, as well as a number that are not usually considered
easy of removal.  Several ventilators had been shorn off level with the deck, and the water
had poured in tons down the openings thus formed; the two quarterboats had disappeared altogether,
and of another boat only the stem and stern posts remained, hanging to the davit tackles by
their ring-bolts. Stanchions were either missing altogether, or bent into a variety of curious
and extraordinary shapes; and even some of the lighter machine-guns mounted on deck had been
torn from their tripods, and were by this time at the bottom of the sea.  The havoc was simply
indescribable, and Frobisher's heart was full of bitterness as he surveyed the shocking wreck
of what had, a few minutes previously, been the smartest and finest cruiser in the whole Chinese
Navy, and thought of the poor souls who were perhaps, even now, struggling feebly as they gradually
sank to their watery graves.

All that night both Drake and Frobisher remained on the bridge, not daring to leave the ship
to herself for an instant; and many and many a time during those hours of darkness did each
of them think that his last moment was come.  Yet time after time the cruiser recovered from
the staggering blows inflicted by wind and sea, and rushed from crest to crest of the swell
like a flying-fish pursued by dolphin.

Several times during the night and the following morning her skipper tried to gauge the speed
at which his ship was travelling, and ultimately he estimated that she must be doing fully
twenty knots over the ground.  As the cruiser was travelling at this high speed Frobisher became
particularly anxious to obtain a sight of the sun at midday, in order to ascertain his position;
for he was of opinion that he must be very near, if not actually among, those islands forming
the Chu-san Archipelago; and he feared, every moment, that the Chih' Yuen might crash headlong
upon some submerged rock.  But, unfortunately, the atmosphere was far too thick to render any
observation possible; indeed, what with the black, low-hanging clouds, and the dense spindrift
with which the air was filled, it was as dark at midday as it would have been, under ordinary
circumstances, half an hour after sunset; and he was perforce obliged to content himself with
the very unsatisfactory result obtained by dead reckoning.

Late in the afternoon the typhoon eased up a little, and Frobisher sent Drake below to secure
some rest--for both men were completely worn out-- promising to call him and take his own turn
after the first lieutenant had refreshed himself with three hours' slumber.

At the expiration of that time the wind had dropped so much that he felt quite justified in
leaving the bridge; and he therefore had Drake called to take his place.  With the easing of
the wind, however, a very steep and heavy sea naturally began to rise, and Frobisher therefore
instructed Drake to call him immediately should any danger arise to the ship.  He then went
below and turned in "all standing", excepting that he discarded his boots and his water-soaked
oilskins; and he was asleep almost before his head had touched the pillow.

It seemed to him that he had been sleeping but a few minutes when he felt himself violently
shaken by the shoulder, and awoke to find Drake, still haggard and worn for want of proper
sleep, standing over him in his dripping oilskins.

"Hillo!  Anything wrong, Drake?" was his immediate enquiry, followed by a request to be told
the time, since his own watch appeared to have run down.

"Nothing absolutely wrong, sir," was the reply, "but what you can feel for yourself.  The sea
has risen very badly; and the ship is not behaving as well as I should like.  The chief engineer,
also, has just sent up word that the engines are working a bit loose, and that some of the
bearings are almost red-hot.  He thinks that some parts of the machinery must have been strained
when that first wave swept over us; so I thought it just as well to let you know.  As for the
time, sir, it is nearly three o'clock in the morning."

"Three in the morning!" ejaculated the captain.  "Surely not, Drake!  I must have slept nearly
ten hours, in that case.  All right!  I will be on deck in a few seconds."

Hardly were the words out of his mouth when there arose on deck a fearful outcry, as of men
in the extremity of fear and dismay; and before Frobisher and Drake had planted their feet
on the first steps of the companion-ladder, the ship struck heavily, plunged forward, and then
struck again.  At the same moment the electric lights went out, and everything was in darkness.

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE.

IN THE HANDS OF FORMOSAN CANNIBALS.

"Heavens above!" shouted Frobisher, as he and Drake picked themselves up from the floor, to
which they had been hurled at the first shock; "the ship is ashore!"

As if to emphasise the statement, just as the two men succeeded in reaching the top of the
steeply-inclined ladder a deluge of water crashed thunderously down on the cruiser's poop,
driving in a solid mass along her decks from end to end, and causing her to bump again heavily.
Then came a terrific shock, accompanied by the heart-stopping sounds of rending and tearing
iron, shearing rivets, jangling machinery, and, worse than all, the despairing screams of men
who had been caught by the giant comber and swept overboard to death among the rocks which
were grinding and tearing their way into the unfortunate Chih' Yuen's vitals.

When Frobisher and his lieutenant gained the wave-swept deck, the first faint glimmerings of
coming dawn were just appearing away to the eastward, and objects close at hand were beginning
to take on recognisable form in the ghostly, grey dawn light; so that, although all the lamps
in the ship had gone out with the stoppage of the dynamo, which had been jolted from its bedplate
at the first shock, it was to some slight extent possible to see what was happening, and to
dodge the masses of wreckage which were being hurled hither and thither about the decks.

Frobisher's first instructions were to the engine-room staff, to stop the engines, which the
engineers had omitted to do, doubtless waiting for orders; and the next was to the carpenter,
to sound the well and ascertain how much water the ship had inside her.  True, she seemed to
be firmly enough fixed on the rocks at the moment, but there was no knowing when she might
slide off and, if she had taken in much water, carry them all to the bottom.

Then, without waiting to receive the man's report, he ordered such boats as still remained
in a condition to swim to be stocked with provisions and water, and to be hoisted off the chocks
ready for lowering in a hurry, should necessity arise.  These, it was soon discovered, amounted
only to three, not counting the steam-pinnace, which, Frobisher feared, it would be impossible
to get into the water under the circumstances; and it was at once apparent that, notwithstanding
the large number of men who had been already swept overboard and drowned, there would not be
sufficient accommodation for half the remaining crew. Which completed the number of beneficiaries was in July Desnoyers.
The grandfather made special mention of it, bequeathing a field "to tend to special expenses,
supplementing what his father did not give it. "

- But that represents hundreds of thousands of dollars! - Protested
Karl, who had done more demanding to be convinced that his wife was
not forgotten in the will.

The days that followed this reading were painful for the family.

Elena and his the other group looked as if it had to wake up, staring in a new light, with look
different. They forgot what they were going to receive, to see only improvements relatives.

Desnoyers,
benevolent and conciliatory, he had a plan. Expert in managing these assets huge, I knew that a
deal between the heirs was going to double without increasing costs products. Also estimated
disbursements complications and nine judicial partition stays significant, hundreds of thousands
of cattle, deposits in banks, houses in cities and receivables.

Was not it better to continue as before? ... They had not lived in the holy peace of a united
family? ...

The German, upon hearing his sentence, he stood proudly. No, every man for himself. Each which
they lived in their area. He wanted to settle in Europe, having freely property. I needed to
return to "their" world.

Desnoyers looked at him face to face, seeing a stranger Karl, a Karl
whose existence had never suspected when I lived under his protection,
timid and servile.

French also believed to contemplate his surroundings in a new light.

-
Okay - said -.

Everyone who takes his own. Seems fair.

III

Desnoyers family

The "succession Madariaga" - as they said in their language of law men interested in prolonging
to increase their own fees - was divided into two groups separated by the sea. The Desnoyers
settled in Buenos Aires. The Hartrott moved to Berlin after Karl had sold all assets, to use
the product in industrial and land of their country.

Desnoyers did not want to live in the countryside.

Twenty years had been the head of a huge Agricultural and livestock activities, sending hundreds
of men in several rooms. Now the radius of its authority was severely restricted to parcels
of fortune old with the part of Elena and the many legacies. Le enraged to see established
in the immediately to various foreign lands, almost all Germans, who had purchased to Karl.
In addition, it was old, his wife's fortune amounted to some twenty million pesos, and his ambitious
brother, when he moved to Europe, perhaps demonstrating that he better sense.

Leased some land, entrusted the management to some of the other favored in the testament, which
is considered the family, always seeing the pattern Desnoyers, and
moved to Buenos Aires.

In this way he could watch his son, who was wearing a hellish life without getting ahead in the
preparatory studies for engineering ... In addition, Chichi was already a woman, her strength
gave him an early appearance, beyond his years, and was not should keep it in the field to be a young
lady like her mother paperback. Dona Luisa also seemed tired of the life of stay. The triumphs
of his sister caused him some discomfort. Was unable to feel jealous, but, for maternal ambition,
he wished his children are not left behind, shining and rising as the children of the other.

One
year they came to the house that Desnoyers had settled in the capital the most amazing German
news. "The aunt from Berlin" - as they called Elena his nephews - would send a very long letters,
with stories of dances, dinners, hunting and titles, many titles of nobility and military honors
"our brother the Colonel," "our cousin, the Baron", "our uncle the intimate adviser, "" our great-uncle,
the truly intimate adviser. "

All vagaries of German social ladder, which runs continuously for new titles satisfy the thirst
for honors of a people divided into castes, were enumerated with delight the old "romantic." To
speak of her husband's secretary, who was not just anybody, he had earned as a clerk in government
offices Rechnungsrath title (Councillor Calculation). In addition, he mentioned proudly retired
Oberpedell had in his house, explaining this meant, "Porter superior."

The news about his sons were no less glorious. The higher the wise family. Was devoted to philology
and historical sciences, but his sight was becoming increasingly
poor, owing to the continuous readings.

Soon to be doctor, and before Herr Professor thirty years. The mother complained that it was not
military, considering his hobbies as something that twisted the top family destinations. Teachers,
science and literature were a refuge for Jews, unable by its origin from obtaining a degree in
the military. But he consoled himself a renowned teacher can get with time consideration social almost
comparable to that of a colonel.

His other four sons would be official. The father was preparing the ground so they could join
the Guard or in some aristocratic regiment without the co-body voted against the proposed admission.
The two girls are probably marry when they had old therefore with Hussars officers bearing
on its behalf a particle noble, proud and gracious gentlemen I was talking enthusiastically
Misia Petrona's daughter.

The installation of the Hartrott was worthy of his new friends. At home in Berlin, easement was
in knee-breeches and white wig nights of great food. Karl had bought an old castle, with turrets
pointed, ghosts in the basements and several legends of murders, assaults and rapes, that brightened
his story in an interesting way. A Architect honored with many foreign orders, and also held the
title of "Director of Construction" was responsible for modernizing the medieval building,
but lost they look scary. "The Romantic" described in advance in the dark receptions games, to
the diffuse light of electric lamps that mimic torches, the crackling fireplace emblazoned
with their fake logs bristling with gas flames, all the splendor of luxury Modern allied with
the memories of an era of powerful nobles, the better, she said, History. Furthermore, the hunts,
future hunting in an area of ​​sandy land and shifting, with pine woods, at all comparable to
the rich soil of home stay, but who had the honor of being footsteps centuries earlier by the
Marquis of Brandenburg, founders of the ruling house of Prussia. And all this progress, the rapid
rise family, in just one year! ... They had to compete with other families overseas who had
amassed huge fortunes in the United States, Brazil or the Pacific
coast.

But they were Germans 'unborn', coarse plebeians who vainly struggled to enter the large world
by making donations to the imperial works. With all his millions, at the most they could aim was
to unite their daughters with line infantry officers. While Karl! ... The relatives of Karl!
... And "the romantic" let the pen run a family glorifying within which he believed to be born.

From time to time, with the letters of other short run Elena came to Desnoyers. The brother
gave account of their operations, as well as when he lived at the ranch protected for him. But
this deference is linked to an ill-concealed pride, a desire to retaliate their times of voluntary
humiliation. Everything he did was great and glorious. Had placed its millions in industrial
enterprises of modern Germany. Was a shareholder in factories huge arms as peoples, navigation
companies launched a ship every half year. The Emperor was interested in these works, looking
benevolently to those who wished help. In addition, Karl was buying
land.

It seemed crazy at first sight, having sold the affluent areas of her inheritance to buy sand Prussians
produced only by dint fertilizer. But as a landlord was on the "agrarian party," the aristocratic
group conservative par excellence, and so lived in two worlds apart and equally distinguished:
that of the great industrial friends of the Emperor, and the Junkers, knights of the field, guardians
of tradition and official suppliers of the king of Prussia.

Upon learning of these developments Desnoyers thought in representing the pecuniary sacrifices.
I knew Karl's past. One day in the room, thanks to impulses, revealed French the cause of his
journey to America. He was a former army officer in his country; but the desire to live ostentatiously
without other resources than the salary, dragged him to commit reprehensible acts: theft of
funds belonging to the regiment, sacred debts without pay, forgery of signatures. These crimes
were not formally pursued by consideration to the memory of his father, but her body peers in
a court of honor. His brothers and friends advised him kick as the only remedy, but he loved life,
and fled to America, where at the cost of humiliation had finally succeed. The wealth erases stains
faster than last time. The news of his fortune on the other side Ocean caused his family to receive
him well in his first voyage, by entering it again in "his world." Nobody could remember the disgraceful
stories of hundreds of case frames a man who spoke of the land of his father, more extensive
than many German principalities.

Now, to settle in the country, everything was forgotten, but what contributions imposed upon
her vanity ... Desnoyers could tell the thousands of frames for discharges into the hands full charitable
works of the Empress, for imperialist propaganda, for companies veterans, for all groups of
aggression and expansion that the ambitions Germanic.

French, sober man, parsimonious in its costs and free of ambition,
smiled at the greatness of his brother.

Karl had an excellent partner, although of a childish pride. He recalled with satisfaction the
years spent together in the field. He could not forget German that hovered around him as a loving
and submissive younger brother. When her family commented with a somewhat envious vivacity the
glories of the relatives in Berlin, he said smile: "Leave them alone, they cost money."

But the enthusiasm that the letters from Germany breathed finally created around his person an
atmosphere of unrest and rebellion. Chichi was the first in the attack. Why would not they to
Europe, like the others? All her friends had been there. Families of Italian shopkeepers Spanish
and undertook the trip, and she, the daughter of a Frenchman, had
not seen Paris!

... Oh, Paris! Doctors attending to the ladies declared the existence of melancholy new and
terrible disease, "the disease of Paris." Doña Luisa supported his daughter. Why what she had to
live in Europe, as well as his sister, being as it was richer? Up July expressed its grave
in the old world look in greater use. America land is not wise.

The father eventually ask the same question, missing that would have occurred it before the
trip to Europe Thirty-four years without leaving that country that was not yours! ... It was time
to leave. He lived too close to business. In vain I wanted to save her retired farmer indifference.
All made money about it. In the club, in the theater, wherever he went, people talked about
land purchases, sales, business fast with the profit tripled, liquidations portentous. Began
to weigh the amounts Banks kept inactive. Would end up mixing in some speculation, as the player
you can not see the wheel without wearing his pocket. For this is not worth having left the room.
His family was right: "A Paris !...» Because the group Desnoyers, go to Europe meant going to Paris.
Could "aunt from Berlin" sing all kind of greatness land of her husband. "Macanas! - Exclaimed
Julio, who had made serious comparisons geographical and ethnic nights
of raid -.

No more than Paris. "Chichi saluted with a wry grin doubt about it:
"Is that perhaps invent them elegant fashions in Germany?

"Doña Luisa support their children. Paris! ... Never occurred to him to go to a Lutherans
land to be protected by her sister.

- Go to Paris! - Said the Frenchman, as though he spoke in an unfamiliar city.

She had been accustomed to believe that he would never to it. During his early years in America it
was impossible for this trip, had not done military service. Then had vague news of different amnesties.
In addition, ample time had elapsed for the prescription. But laziness of his will made him
consider a return to his country as absurd and useless. Nothing kept across the sea Pulling him.
He had even lost all connection with those relatives of the field that hosted his mother. In
times of sadness, projected raising activity to entertain a huge mausoleum, all in marble, in
the Recoleta cemetery of the rich in order to transfer the remains
to the crypt of Madariaga as founder of the dynasty, followed him,
and then all his family when the time came to them.

Beginning to feel the weight of his age. It was close to sixty, and the rough life of the field,
riding under rain, rivers forded on horseback swimmer, the nights spent in the open, had provided a
rheumatism that embittered his best days.

But the family eventually communicate your enthusiasm.

"A Paris !...» believed to be twenty years. And forget the usual parsimony, wished his own
journey as well as a ruling family, in deluxe cabins and self bondage. Coppery born two virgins
in the room and elevated to the rank of daughters of the lady and her daughter were followed
on the trip, without slanting eyes reveal their astonishment at the major developments.

Once in Paris, Desnoyers felt disoriented. Embroiled the names of streets and proposed visits
to buildings disappeared long before. All his efforts to show off
of good knowledge were accompanied by failures.

Their children, guided by recent readings Paris knew better than him. It was considered a foreigner
in his homeland.

At first, until felt a certain strangeness to make use of language. Had remained in the room years
on end without saying a word in their language. Thought in Spanish, and when transferring ideas
into the language of their ancestors, splashed with all sorts of French Creole phrases.

- Where a man makes his fortune and his family is, there is his real home - said sententiously
reminding Madariaga.

The image of the distant country he resurfaced in dominating obsessively as soon as cushioned First
impressions of the trip.

He had no French friends, and out into the street, her steps I instinctively headed to the meeting
places of the Argentines. They would be same thing happened. Had been away from home, to feel more
strongly the desire talk about it at all hours. Read the newspapers there, commented on the rising
fields the importance of the next harvest, the sale of steers. Returning to his home with him
also the memory of the American land, thinking with delight that the two Chinese would hit the
professional dignity of the French cook, preparing a porridge, a carbon or a pot to Creole
style.

He had settled the family in an ostentatious house in the avenue Victor
Hugo: twenty-eight thousand francs rental.

Dona Luisa had to come and go many times to get used to imposing
aspect of the porters: the decorated, dressed in black and white whiskers
like a notary comedy; her majestic, gold chain on his chest luxuriant,
and received the tenants living in a red and gold.

Upstairs in the bedrooms, a luxury ultra-modern, cold and ice in sight, with white walls and
windows of small rectangles, exasperated Desnoyers, who had enthusiasm for the complicated
carvings and rich furniture of her youth. The same arrangement directed numerous pieces, which
always seemed empty.

Chichi protested greed dad to buy him slowly, groping and hesitation.

- Miser, no - he replied -. Is that I know the price of things.

Objects only liked, when he purchased a third of its value. The deception which showed them
was a testimony to the superiority they bought them. Paris offered him a place of pleasure and
could not find in the rest the world: the Hotel Drouot. Went to him every evening, if not found
in newspapers the notice of other auctions of importance. For several years there was no famous
shipwreck in Parisian life, with subsequent clearance of debris, which does not take a small
part. The usefulness and necessity of acquisitions were of secondary interest, the important
thing was to acquire at bargain prices. And the auction rooms that flooded to the top are furnished
with excruciating slowness.

His daughter now complained that the house was filled too. The furniture and ornaments were rich,
but many ... So many! The Banquet took a look antique store. The white walls seemed detached
from the magnificent stalls and display cases filled. Shaved sumptuous carpets, on which they
had walked several generations, covered all floors. Ostentatious curtains, not finding an
empty space in the classrooms, were to decorate the doors to the kitchen immediately. Moldings
disappeared from the walls under a plywood frame closely together like the scales of armor. Who
could cross Desnoyers to a miser? ... Spent much more than if a fashionable furniture maker
was his supplier.

The idea that everything acquired by the fourth of its price will continue these extravagances
did of economic man. I could only sleep well when you imagine having made the day a good business.
Bought at auction thousands of bottles from bankruptcy. And he, just drank crowded caves, recommending
to the family that employs the champagne as ordinary wine. The ruin of a furrier acquire him
fourteen thousand francs fur were worth ninety thousand. The whole group seemed to feel the early
Desnoyers a freezing cold, as if the polar icebergs invade the avenue Victor Hugo. The father
just to gifts with a fur coat, but ordered three for his son. Chichi and Dona Luisa present
in all parts covered with silky mop varied: one day chinchillas other blue fox, sable or sea
lion.

The same decorating the walls with new lots of tables, hammering at the top of a ladder to save
the expense of a laborer. I wanted to give to the children examples economy. In his off hours
changed heavier furniture site, ocurriéndosele all sorts of combinations. It was reminiscent
of his good time, while driving in stay sacks of wheat and bundles of hides. His son, noting that
a sideboard peering monumental, but was put in cautiously. Desnoyers felt some hesitation before
two servants, incorrect characters, solemn, long tails, which did not conceal their astonishment
at see a man with more than one million of income given to such functions.
Finally, were the two coppery maids that helps the employer, joining
him with a familiarity of sisters of exile.

Four cars completed the
estate of the family. The children would have been satisfied with
a nothing more, small, brand, showcasing the fashion brand. But Desnoyers
was no man to squander the good times, and one after another, had
purchased the four, tempted by the price. They were huge and majestic
as the old carriages. Its entrance was on a street head back to passersby.
The chauffeur needed two assistants to attend to this herd of mastodons.
But the owner was only memory of the skill with which he thought he
had deceived vendors, eager to lose sight of such monuments.  He had not
set eyes on him during the whole of that brief scuffle, and he began to fear the worst for
his friend.

A remarkable sight revealed itself to his wondering gaze when he at length opened his eyes.
Instead of being bound to the trunk of a tree, as he had previously supposed, he found that
he was secured to a stout post driven into the ground, his arms, behind him, encircling the
post, with the wrists lashed together by what felt like rough ropes of native fibre.  Glancing
downward, he saw that his ankles had been placed one on each side of the stake, and secured
there by several lengths of rattan; and it was to this that his uncomfortable and cramped position
was due, as his whole weight was thus thrust forward until it was supported almost entirely
by the wrists.

Looking round him, he saw that a number of similar stakes had been erected in the form of a
circle, in the centre of which was a roaring fire, the heat from which he had become unpleasantly
aware of on his return to consciousness; and to each post was secured the body of a man, supported
in the same manner as himself.  Many of them appeared, Frobisher noticed, to be in a state
of entire, or nearly entire, unconsciousness.  These men were, of course, the Chinese seamen
who had escaped death at the first onslaught of the savages, and had survived, he very greatly
feared, only to meet a far more sinister fate than that of sudden death.

His gaze diligently searched the circle for Drake, and he was beginning to fear that his old
friend must be numbered with the slain, when one of the figures raised its head slowly and
painfully, as though just returning to consciousness, and revealed the blood-stained, haggard
features of the first lieutenant.  At the same time Drake turned his eyes in Frobisher's direction,
stared blankly at him for a second, and then smiled a glad but painful smile--painful because
of the slash which he had received across the face; but he refrained from calling a greeting,
and Frobisher instantly recognised that the other must have some good reason for remaining
silent--a circumstance very much opposed to his usual nature.

That reason soon became apparent as Frobisher managed to twist his head round, with considerable
difficulty, and look behind him; for he then saw that he and the survivors of his crew were
tied up in front of a native Formosan village; the spot where they were standing being evidently
the open space which is to be found in some portion of every savage town.  It was still night-time,
but the glare of the great fire shone redly on the low, reed-thatched huts, with their two-foot-high
doors, covered with fibre mats, through which the occupants were obliged to crawl on all-fours;
and the reason of Drake's silence became apparent in the bronze shapes of several of the savages
themselves, either lounging against the walls of the huts, or seated on low stools before the
doors.  All of them, without exception, were nursing evil-looking, long-hafted, broad-bladed
spears, and carried, belted to their waists, long-bladed knives, with wavy blades, somewhat
similar to the Malay parong, or kris; and these they were evidently very ready and willing
to use on the least provocation.

The natives had all the appearance of people who were waiting impatiently for some pleasurable
happening to take place; and Frobisher realised how very much it was to the advantage of all
of them to feign unconsciousness as long as possible.  The "exhibition", in which the prisoners
were undoubtedly to become the principal actors, could hardly take place while the prisoners
were still insensible, and therefore not in a fit condition to furnish "sport"; but there was
no doubt that, directly any of them showed signs of being in a condition to feel pain, the
savage revels would begin.  What form these would take Frobisher did not, of course, know;
but he could shrewdly guess, by what he remembered to have been told about these folk, that
it would be something very horrible, and he shuddered involuntarily.

At this moment there thrilled through the still night air that same deep, throbbing note that
he believed he had heard at the moment when he had been struck down.  His sub-consciousness
had then attributed the sound to the result of the blow, and he had since thought no more of
it; but now that he heard it again he had no doubt as to what it really was. It was the deep-toned
vibration of a steamer's syren, not so very far away; and he cast a quick glance in Drake's
direction.  If there were a steamer so close at hand, there might yet be a chance of being
rescued if communication could possibly be established with her people.

The lieutenant had also heard it; and directly his chief's eyes met his, his lips slowly but
very distinctly formed one silent word: "Japanese."

It was quite possible at that short distance, and in that strong light, to read from one another's
lips, provided the motions were slow and very distinct, and the two men at once entered into
a silent conversation relating to the situation in which they found themselves.  Drake all
the time kept a wary eye on the guards, and feigned unconsciousness--a course immediately followed
by Frobisher--immediately there seemed the least likelihood of one of them turning his head
in the prisoners' direction.

There could be no question as to the identity of the stranger--or strangers.  The steamer undoubtedly
was either one of the transports, or the gunboat sent by the Japanese to take possession of
the island--part of the very expedition that Frobisher would now have been engaged in fighting,
had it not been for the terrible catastrophe of the Chih' Yuen being cast away.

The questions then arose--how soon would it be before the troops were landed? would they be
likely to come that way in their search for a spot on which to erect fort and barracks? and
if they did so, would they arrive in time?  They would scarcely begin the disembarkation before
dawn, Frobisher conjectured; but dawn must surely be not very far off now.  He found himself
praying fervently that his Chinese seamen might remain insensible as long as possible; for
the first that recovered his senses would be almost certain, in his astonishment and alarm,
to betray the fact; and he could not but believe that when once the "entertainment" commenced,
the savages would not trouble to discriminate between insensible and conscious victims, but
would butcher the entire company to satisfy their lust for blood.

He had been carrying on a silent conversation with Drake for nearly an hour, during which time
neither prisoners nor captors had moved; and the first streaks of dawn were appearing to the
eastward when the lieutenant suddenly dropped his chin on his chest, as though shot; and so
naturally was the performance carried out that for a few seconds Frobisher believed his friend
had fainted.  He was wise enough, however, to follow the example instantly, and presently,
through his half-closed eyelids, he saw a couple of the savages rise to their feet and stroll
toward the circle of prisoners.

Drake himself was one of the first at whom they stopped.  They looked keenly at the down-hung
head, and even prodded him in the ribs with a spear-haft; but although the blow must have been
exceedingly painful, Drake retained sufficient self-possession not to utter a sound or exhibit
a single sign of consciousness, and after a pause the two men strolled along to the next prisoner.
This was the Chinese quartermaster of the Chih' Yuen; and directly they touched him Frobisher
realised that the man was dead--fortunately, perhaps.  There could be no mistaking the inert
manner in which the body responded to the shaking of the taller of the two Formosans; and with
an animal cry of disappointed rage the fellow reversed his spear and drove the broad blade
again and again into the insensate figure.  The sight was a sickening one, and Frobisher's
only consolation was that the object of the barbarity was beyond the reach of cruelty for ever.

Then the men passed on to another figure, another, and still another, always without result,
until Frobisher became aware that his turn was coming next.  Drake's eye was on him, he knew,
watching anxiously, and he braced himself to bear in silence whatever barbarity the savages
might feel inclined to inflict.

He knew, of course, when they stopped opposite him, although he had now closed his eyes tightly;
but he could scarcely repress a start when he felt a heavy hand fall upon his shoulder, for
he did not know what next to expect.  The temptation to open his eyes was almost irresistible,
but with a strong effort he managed to keep them closed, and it was indeed well for him that
he did so.  Drake, who was watching, told him afterward that when he saw the horribly suggestive
gestures that followed upon the man placing his hand on Frobisher's shoulder he almost fainted
from very horror, and was scarcely able to draw his breath until, after a few seconds' hesitation,
the men decided to postpone their barbarous idea until the victim was in a state to anticipate
and to feel, and passed on.  Frobisher heard them depart, but forbore to open his eyes for
a few seconds, lest they should be playing him some trick, and so he did not see what happened
to the man on his left; but Drake did, and not with all his iron nerve could he repress a muffled
cry of horror.

Immediately the men wheeled, but luckily, having their backs turned at the time, were unable
to locate the sound accurately.  They fancied that it was uttered by one of the seamen who,
unhappily for him, had just regained consciousness and was gazing about him in blank amazement
and terror; and with a shout of exultation the two inhuman wretches left the cruelly mangled
form of their victim and passed on to the sailor.

They paused in front of him for a few moments, gesticulating and laughing fiendishly, and then,
to Frobisher's amazement, left him untouched, and returned to the huts.

Here they uttered a peculiar kind of cry, and presently could be heard sounds as of a number
of people approaching through the jungle.  A few others appeared sleepily at the doors of some
of the huts, and crawled out, yawning and blinking, into the fire-light.  Here they remained,
talking in their harsh, unmusical tongue, and chuckling at some suggestion put forward by the
tall man, until the arrival of a party of men, all armed with spears and krises and, in some
instances, bows and arrows, or blowpipes, who had evidently been out hunting to procure breakfast
for the tribe; for they carried with them a number of small animals somewhat resembling hares,
and a few splendidly-plumaged birds, all intended for the pot.  On hearing what the tall man
was saying, however, their burdens were contemptuously cast on one side, and they eyed the
prisoners with an expression that told Frobisher more plainly than words that he had fallen
into the clutches of cannibals, and the discarding of the spoils of their night's hunt proved
only too clearly what their intentions were.

How Frobisher prayed and prayed again that the Japanese troops might pass that way in time!
It would, of course, mean the exchanging of one prison for another, he knew.  But the Japanese
were civilised, and their officers gentlemen; and no indignity or other hardship would be inflicted
upon their captives beyond temporary confinement; and the Englishman felt that he would almost
be willing to undergo lifelong captivity if he might, by so doing, save his comrades and himself
from the dreadful fate that, only too plainly, was in store for them.

The chief having now concluded his harangue, his audience, with shouts and chuckles of anticipation
and ferocity, dived back into their huts, to reappear a few seconds later with a number of
wooden shovels, and stakes sharpened to a point and hardened in the fire, these being evidently
intended for the breaking up of hard earth for the shovels to deal with more easily.  Then
the whole of them, with the exception of a couple of spearmen left to guard the prisoners,
trooped off into the bush, stopping a little distance away and proceeding to dig eagerly, as
Frobisher could tell by their shouts, and the sounds of shovels and picks being driven into
the ground.

Ah, if only it were possible for either Drake or himself to loosen their bonds while the savages
were away!  A few seconds would suffice to dispose of the guard; a few seconds more would liberate
the rest of the prisoners, most of whom were now showing signs of returning consciousness;
and they could all be away in the depths of the forest before those others could reach the
spot.  Once free, it would be strange indeed if they could not reach the protection of the
Japanese troops, who would by this time surely be disembarking, possibly only a short mile
away, if they should have elected to land at the spot where the Chih' Yuen's boats had been left.

"Phew!--the boats!" thought Frobisher to himself.  If the troops should land where he expected
they would, the officers could not avoid seeing them; and, seeing them, they would naturally
at once endeavour to discover whose they were.  The name of the ship was on each boat--if the
Jap officers could understand Chinese characters--and surely, surely they would try to locate
the people who had landed from the vessel, if only to attack and drive them from the island.
If the disembarkation had begun at dawn, a strong force might even now be in the vicinity searching--perhaps
within earshot.  At this very moment a concentrated shout on the part of Drake and himself
might reach the ears of the troops and bring them to the spot in time to save all hands from
a horrible death!

But the risk was too great.  A shout would inevitably bring back the savages, even if the guards
did not punish the outcry with a spear-thrust; and then all would be over. One of them, without
interrupting his singing, pressed the right hand of an old woman who was walking beside her
serene and with dry eyes. The mother gathered their forces to accompany his fine fellow, with
a false joy, until the last minute.

Others came loose, detached from their peers, but this would not alone. The rifle hanging from one
shoulder, the shoulders were overwhelmed by the hump of the backpack red legs and hid out from
the wings turns blue coat, was smoking his pipe under the hood of his vest. Before one of them
walked four, ranked by order tall. Turned their heads to admire his father, suddenly magnified by
the trappings military. A companion walked beside him, meek and submissive, as in the first weeks
relations, feeling in a simple soul flourishing of love, a belated spring, Contact born at
risk. The man, a worker in Paris who sang perhaps a month before International, calling for the demise
of the military and the brotherhood of all humans, was now in search of death. His wife held
the sobbing and admired him. The affection and pity he did insist on its recommendations.
In the backpack had put best scarves, the little food she kept at home, all the money. Your
man should not worry about her and the children. Would leave the wrong way as they could. The government
and good souls would be responsible for their fate.

The soldier joked at the waist somewhat distorted by his wife, waving to the next city to arise,
announcing a birth in full victory.

A kiss to the companion, an affectionate Repelon to the offspring, and then joined with comrades
... No tears. Valor! ... Viva France!

The recommendations of those who quit were heard.

No one cried.

But the disappearance the last red trousers, many hands convulsively clung to the bars of the
gate, many tissues were bitten with teeth grinding, many heads were
hidden under agonizing death rattle arm.

And Mr. Desnoyers envied these tears.

The old, losing in his wrinkled hand contact of the right hand of
the child, turned where he believed the hostile country, waving his
arms to murderous rage:

- Ah, villain!

... Bandido!

Again with the imagination to see the face so often referred to in
the illustration pages of newspapers: a mustache of insolent commotion;
a mouth with teeth of a wolf, laughing ... had to laugh laughed as
the men of the Stone Age.

And Mr. Desnoyers envied this anger.

II

New Life

When Margaret
was able to return to the studio on the Rue de la Pompe, Julio, who
lived in perpetual bad mood, seeing everything with dark colors, was
encouraged by a sudden optimism.

The war was not going to be as cruel
as it is imagined all at first. Ten days were passed, and beginning
to become less visible the movement of troops.
Gold bracelets encircled his arms nearly from wrist to elbow, and his ankles were ornamented
by soft gold bands which could be clasped on or taken off as their owner desired.  He made
a fine figure of a man, and was evidently quite aware of the fact, for he stood still for a
few moments, sunning himself in the admiration of his followers, until Frobisher trembled lest
the voices should again make themselves heard and be detected by the waiting cannibals.  In
fact, as he strained his ears, the Englishman could now distinctly hear the distant crackling
of undergrowth, announcing the passage of a number of men through the bush.  It was as yet
very faint indeed, and would have passed unnoticed but for the strained condition of his nerves;
but it was to him quite perceptible, and approaching closer and closer every second.

To his unbounded delight, the cannibals now formed a circle and began to sing, slowly parading
round the doomed men and clashing the hafts of their spears, thus effectually drowning any
sounds the approaching troops might make, and at the same time notifying their presence to
the Japanese.  It was broad daylight by this time, and Frobisher kept his eyes glued in the
direction from which the sounds had proceeded, hoping every second that they would be gladdened
by the glitter of approaching bayonets.

In the midst of the singing the chief, suddenly whipping out his kris, paused a few seconds
on the edge of the circle, looking for a victim, then sprang like a tiger at one of the Chinese
seamen.  The man saw him coming and shrieked pitifully; but he could scarcely have felt his
death, poor fellow, for the next second his severed head fell to the ground.

Waving the kris above his head, and laughing madly, the chief looked round for the next victim,
and his eyes fell upon Frobisher. Those
who are known only as husbands is because otherwise they do not deserve to be. No one would remember
of them but for their wives. As for your age, your darkness and your poverty, I fall in love
again, well you know, that youth, brilliance and wealth in any other. If something is worth
my love, it bathes your soul and feel rejuvenated. Do not talk to me sometimes the sweet light
of my eyes? For lights that light your darkness. Did not you say that my love is a treasure?
Well, how dare you, ungrateful, to argue that you're poor?

Don Braulio, who was sitting in the mustache, hearing phrases such as loving mouth linda could
not contain his excitement, he burst into tears, holding the hand
of his wife, kissed passionately.

Doña Beatriz in her hand felt a tear fell on it to give the kiss Don Braulio.

Then Beatriz said:

- Now, now ... let's not childish. Do not test me now because you
are old, but children are much more than me.

Let us rejoice, and let's have fun serenémonos far as possible. Let us apply to this case the
proverb that says: "In the poor house burst better no excess.

"It is necessary to get good juice to pesetillas we're going to spend.

Well not so!

It would be wasteful spending and not make fun of course.

Don Braulio calmed down following the advice of his wife tried to smile and appear happy, and even
excited Inesita his wife and to have fun.

Thus came to the Garden, took notes and entered.

VIII

That night
in the Gardens had more people than usual.

Some sat in chairs in
groups, dances and small gatherings, others were turning by the circular
walk, at whose center is the kiosk of the orchestra. This touching,
with enough Masters, the final round of Cenerentola.

Our Don Braulio
and girls did not see a single familiar face.

Instead of sitting
began to rotate through this competition.  But he courteously informed Frobisher
that, although he was delighted and honoured at having been the means of succouring the "honourable
captain" and his men in their extremity, he would be obliged, as the two countries were still
at war, to make him and all his men prisoners until such time as they could be exchanged. 
If, however, Frobisher would give his parole for himself and his crew, he would be very glad
to give them all a passage to Japan when the transports returned thither; otherwise, he should
be obliged to keep them with him on the island until he was relieved or the Japanese garrison
withdrawn.

Frobisher and Drake, after consulting, decided that they would not give their parole.  They
were both eager to get away from Formosa and back to their duty as soon as possible, and they
believed they might be able to form a plan by which to bring this about, if they were not sent
to Japan.

He therefore informed General Oki of his decision.  That officer shrugged his shoulders, and
ordered the two Englishmen and the twenty-three Chinese to be closely guarded until a building
could be erected as a prison for them.  This was soon run up, and the twenty-five men placed
therein, with sentries stationed at the doors night and day.

They were well treated, but very strictly guarded; and it was a long time before even a glimmering
of an opportunity to escape occurred. 

Honda City is the limit or focus of two entirely different regions: south and eastern regions
of the upper Magdalena admirable, towards the north, the endless wilderness, the burning deserts
and the monotonous uniformity of the lower Magdalena.

It was longer than that, however, before she appeared, and provisions were becoming exceedingly
scarce when one day everybody awoke to find one of the latest and finest Japanese torpedo-boat
destroyers lying off the beach, and with her an old tramp steamer laden with stores.  It was
then that Frobisher and Drake decided to attempt putting into execution the scheme matured
by them months previously, and which had been simmering in their brains ever since the departure
of the gunboat and transports.

This scheme was nothing less than the capture of the war-vessel which would certainly accompany
the storeship; but the question now was, How was the scheme to be carried out with so small
a number of men? Twenty-five to a hundred and ten--which would be about the complement carried
by the destroyer--was very long odds; but Frobisher and Drake between them evolved a plan that
they thought might meet with success. And
if I liked as a boyfriend, was it because he deserves it or because the people I had not seen
other men who deserve it more? Do not be happening to me now poetic Paco in my memory, and
to find, when you see him, well under the memory itself? In its own soul, can not be such
a phenomenon? Whatever it is, explain it as want to explain, it is certain that nothing I
said that I loved when we lived together, and Now, I do not see three years ago, I declared
his love and wants to marry me. What is this? "Agnes does not answer such questions. It does not
solve any doubt that the assault. I understand, then, that what you want, but dared not tell
me, is that you come by here; only way for her to see clearly everything to convince you love,
and understanding if she loves you, all the charms prefiriéndote Madrid, which, indeed, are
a thousand times smaller than you think, for the poor like us.

"Ines has not expressed, again, the desire to come. I am who I guess she this desire that has
no reason to feel and express. She can not say, "Come to see if I like and then talk, then
I say yes or you'll squash. "This, however, is reasonable.

"Moreover, I have nothing to say against your plans, but much to applaud. If you marry, must stay
there, where you are one of the first, and not come to large populations, where have to be
from the past.

But, fortunately for the success of Frobisher's scheme, everything had fallen out as he had
hoped.  The storeship's crew came on shore first, and met with splendid success; and, as the
destroyer and her consort were making but a brief stay, the war-ship's crew had arranged to
hold their battue the following day.  Frobisher had therefore warned his men, directly he became
aware of what was intended; and it was with mingled feelings of delight and apprehension that
he saw and heard the laughing Japanese tars making their way into the bush, as twilight fell,
to take up their posts for the moonlight "shoot."

The prison had been built at some distance from the storehouse and the barracks, close to the
edge of the jungle, and not far from the strip of beach where the Chih' Yuen's boats had landed.
The other two buildings just referred to were more than half a mile away, at the top of the
cliff, where a signal-station had also been established.  On the night selected for the attempt,
the crew of the store-ship happened to be holding a "sing-song", to which the officers on shore
and a number of men from the barracks had been invited; and it seemed as though fortune herself
were on the side of the conspirators. And in this way was beyond what is
reasonable and made judgments adventurous, understanding all the grotesque and Trabuco things.

Los
Condes de San Teódulo seemed a if Counts not stick, and while the
gathering was subject of true worth and class, the concept was a bit
cloudy that Don Braulio masters of the house had to project a certain
dark shadow on the house that attended.

In almost no one thought right. Strange human condition! One only won of course confidence, one
just seemed elegant, distinguished, noble completely discreet, distinguished, elegant, sweet
and fair: The Count of Alhedín.

Seeing often whispering Rosita and be home more carefree than the others, Don Braulio, going
from ready on this occasion, made a settlement there in his mind,
and decided the Earl of Alhedín represented in that house on paper
than in reality represented the poet Arthur.

Back inside the Don Braulio Conde graciously spared this loss, and considering their excellent
qualities, and without fear of anything on this side, almost intimate
with him.

Instead, the poet, who was very nosy, which of course treated with the utmost confidence the
two sisters, who approached a lot to talk to them, and by bad manners as being somewhat short-sighted,
and began to Beatrice in verse and prose infinite compliments, Don Braulio took grudge and
looked like a Don Juan Tenorio needy and third or fourth class.

Anyway, Don Braulio not loved the gathering, but Don Braulio had a pattern for his conduct, which
had decided not to depart.

As it is society, which would be the ideal he had of the great world, the fact was that the house
of the Counts of San Teódulo was a respectable house, where any other in place, would have been
thrilled to be admitted. I could think Don Braulio it wanted to Rosita and her husband could
denigrate, in the depths of his severe awareness, gathering with their commentators, but to
the world, under the conditions of this life we ​​live, could not resist, bypassing ferret,
by jealous and tyrant his wife to continue going to that gathering.

Don Braulio would not also include his wife with sermons or severely, or mandates. She wanted only
love for love. His plan was laid out. Could not and should oppose Beatriz treated Rosita and to strengthen
bonds of friendship with her.

Conveníale finally give notice to his wife about the moral value of Rosita, to not deceive,
but hide then his anger if his wife was treating.

And this was Don Braulio.

Some might think that Don Braulio did wrong and I was weak in character. Here we do not give as
paragon of strength.

I paint as it is.

We will say, however, as fertilizer, which are very rare Cato.

All are reported behavior the servants they will receive at home, and one of those people
they are dealing with and intimate with his wife and daughters, provided
that such persons to save face and not frowned upon in the world.

In short, and with tolerance, and with the blessing of Don Braulio,
and Ines Beatriz, since that night on, kept going frequently to socialize
Countess San Teodulo and being his most precious and attractive ornaments.

Rosita
also sometimes carried them in his company, and the theater, and to
the Gardens, and the walk, and eat at home.

Don Braulio, as his duties
or his humor, was or was not with his wife and sister to these entertainment
and parties, to which Rosie was always careful to invite him.  He was silently overcome, gagged, and bound in a trice, and in less
than ten minutes the remainder of the destroyer's men--most of them captured while enjoying
a well-earned nap--were in irons and confined, with a sentry over them, in their own vessel's
forecastle, the scuttles of which were closed and screwed home with a spanner, so that no outcry
of theirs could reach the other ship.

The fires were banked and the steam pressure was low, but by an extravagant use of oil a working
pressure was soon raised.  Frobisher wisely waited until he had a full head of steam before
slipping his cable, lest he might be chased by the store-ship before he had power for full
speed; but at the expiration of an hour all was in readiness.  The word was given, the cable
slipped through the hawse-pipe with a roar, the screw revolved, and the Satsuma swung round
in a circle and headed northward for Wei-hai-wei.

The sound of the cable running out alarmed the crew of the store-ship, and the concert ceased
abruptly.  But that craft might as well have hoped to catch a streak of lightning as the Satsuma,
when once she was well into her stride; and two days later the destroyer, now flying the Chinese
flag, steamed proudly into Wei-hai-wei.

But, alas! pride soon had a fall, for the harbour was full of Japanese war-ships!  Matters
had been progressing while Frobisher was a prisoner in Formosa, battles had been fought on
land and sea, and China had been humbled in the dust.  Her men, both in the Navy and the Army,
had fought like heroes; but, alas! it was always the same tale.  Victory, dearly bought, but
still victory, would have been theirs in nearly every case but for the peculation of the mandarins
and other high officials, who supplied everything of the poorest to the unfortunate men whose
duty it was to do the fighting.  Poor weapons, poor food, cheap boots and clothing, faulty
ammunition were the cause of China's downfall--nothing else.

The remnant of her fleet, under Admiral Ting, had fought another bravely-contested naval action,
and had been destroyed, with the exception of one ship, the Chen Yuen, which had been captured.
Her southern fleet had been bottled up by another Japanese squadron, and Admiral Wong-lih had
gone to Tien-tsin to see whether he could be of use there.  The army in Korea had been crushed
by an enemy superior in numbers and in everything else but bravery; and at the moment of Frobisher's
return the peace envoys were in the act of concluding the treaty of Shimonoseki.

The higher Chinese naval officers, broken-hearted at disgrace which was none of their own fault,
had one and all committed suicide, and the Dragon's teeth were drawn, his claws pared.

Would he ever rise again, Frobisher wondered, under men worthy of the heroes who were only
too willing to fight his battles?  Time alone would show.

There is little more to add to the present history of Captain Murray Frobisher.

The captured destroyer was, of course, claimed by Japan, and Frobisher himself remained a prisoner
for one day, until the treaty was signed. Then, being free, he sought Admiral Wong-lih, who
had refused to follow his comrades' example and destroy himself.  The Englishman obtained from
him the loan of an old gunboat, armed and manned her at his own expense, went up the Hoang-ho,
and settled an outstanding account with certain pirates and an individual by the name of Ah-fu.

Then Drake and he revisited the ruined palace, and brought away Genghiz Khan's hoard, which
the two men shared and brought to England, where they arrived about Christmas time. I would not get into it, but it puts me ahead in spite of myself.

I certainly see that in old age men of the South felt and celebrated,
at least with equal enthusiasm in the North today, the return of spring.


He was surprised, on the day following his arrival, to receive a visit from Dick Penryn, who,
after the first warm greetings had passed, handed him a document intimating that the former
sentence of the court martial had been reversed; that Frobisher had been reinstated in the
British Navy, with the rank of captain; and that a ship was waiting for him as soon as he cared
to take command. These horrors are only on the understanding my
poor Bringas.

- Mira, Francisco - Augustine replied, laughing again -, do not worry about such trifles. I
give four coats.

Encárgatelos, and tell your tailor to send me the bill. Better which orders the tailor mine.

Rosalie
began to clap, as if in a theater, and his joy was so great could not quite express their joy
in another way. Later, en route to his humble abode, daydreamed through
the streets. 

I have not ever seen a city where they are as well represented as in Honda's life, it holds in
the power of an exuberant nature and splendid, and a lively trade and death, which appears
to be nested in the solitude of the ruins blackened by time.  If China had had more ships she might have come
off victorious in her war with Japan, in spite of the manifold disadvantages to which she had
been subjected.  These were disadvantages of a kind to which Great Britain, he knew, would
never be exposed; but he wanted his beloved country to possess a good "margin of safety." Meanwhile,
be content V. or rather not upset by this that I dedicate, for I know I do that, if it is something
and if you joke, V. will find him, but I need to have where is the funny indicate that V. I
laugh.

THE END.

