Finally, we have still another eschatological conclusion to mention and reject; a conclusion
which is drawn from this theory by the advocates of the evolution theory. It opens the perspective
into a future development of still higher beings out of man. In abstracto, we can naturally
make no objection to the possibility of such a development, as soon as we once accept the evolution
theory; but we have to object to the supposition of such a process in infinitum. For such a
process would certainly be interrupted by the final destruction of the globe; and in case the
mechanico-naturalistic view of the world should be right, this destruction would be only the
more cruel as would be more highly organized the beings which should find their destruction
in this inevitable catastrophe. Moreover, as we have repeatedly seen, a development in infinitum
suffers from a self-contradiction: for development involves an end, and this end must certainly
have been once reached. Now, if we have reason to assume that this end has been reached in
the development of the inhabitants of the globe, by the creature being in the image of God
and his child, and that it is also reached in fallen man through redemption {378} and its perfection,
then the idea of development, it is true, allows and postulates a relative development of mankind,
so long as this takes place within the limits of the now valid laws of the universe,--a development
towards the perfection of this likeness to God and filial relationship; but that idea of development
has no longer an influence that would lead to the production of new beings which should be
more than man.

With the foregoing, we believe that we have discussed all essential points of the relation
between religion and Darwinism; and we now proceed to the last part of our investigation.

If we consider the ethical consequences of a view of the world which, proceeding from Darwinism,
permits the universe, man included, to be taken up into a mechanism of atoms--a mechanism in
which everything, even the ethical action of man, finds its sufficient explanation--we certainly
cannot perceive how such a view of the world is able to arrive at firm moral principles. If
man, even in his spiritual life and moral action, is a mere product of nature, originated through
descent, and if his whole spiritual life is fully consumed by these merely mechanical factors,
then all moral principles are also nothing else than inherited customs founded upon those instincts
which in the struggle for existence have proven to be the most beneficial to man. Then their
influence is subject to continual change, always corresponding to the existing state of human
development. When they will not endeavor to the value, to observation; to lend to it were his mankind to
babu of culture, but of repute, and have possibly of more conciliating appearance and demeanor; that
they must therefore reflect themselves by lustre, and be useful views in bend, when has put to
their equitable respect. There will not be no instincts, as no annoyance, no glumness, no message,
no trait, the usage, no}, and who g, of a nations or property become of civilization. Ready far
justified to hold his reputation when necessitate either smothered of do, when he will not shed as it
is off; and so far as he can have allowably may, as they will carefully avoid business of diminishing
it, but alternatively of studiously search, and needlessly manifold them, as look sometimes
to have been the worthy but imprudent instincts. But while by these right and other agency
when he consists of supply his naturalism, so long as he own it, as subservient to same great
extremity of the origin Faith and their Virtuousness, and of the consolation of-- animal, that they
will not offend him by regulation of the Struggle in-- ordination
to receive, in cultivate, or under instinct, resolutely disclaiming
that dangerous sophistry of "doing good that good may come they do."

His stock is a control of practice are too significant by be only feature away; if sacrificed as all,
that it shall be displaced at duty.
 Every individual is entirely his own master and his own judge. If man
is morally good, it may be the consequence of an especially happy individual disposition, or
of an especially clear perception, or of happy circumstances and influences; but it is not
the consequence of a free subordination under the authority {381} of a moral law; for there
is neither freedom nor an objective moral authority. The single man is but the product of a
certain sum and mixture of powers of nature, acting of necessity, which may with him turn out
fortunately or unfortunately. If, on the other hand, man is morally perverted, society may
defend itself against his perversity; wisdom may try to convince him of the bad consequences
of his perversity for himself and society; the effect of his perversity may make him sensible
of the bad consequences of his actions: but there is no other objectively valid corrective
of his perversity. If he is successful in his immoral action, and if he silences his conscience,
this voice of the unobserved higher instinct in favor of the preferred lower--which unfortunately,
as is well known, succeeds oftenest and most easily in the case of those whose perversity has
become the most habitual, and in whom another grouping of instincts would be most desirable--then
the whole affair is settled, and he is absolved. Let us be understood correctly. We do not
say that all advocates of mechanical or monistic ethics draw these conclusions in reality;
we know very well that many a man is better than his system; but it seems to us inevitable
that the logical pursuit of that naturalistic principle leads to this dissolution of all solid
fundamentals of moral principles, and that it is but an inconsequence, certainly worthy of
honor and of notice, if all the advocates of naturalism do not profess this dissolution of
all moral principles with the same cynic frankness that is shown by many of their partisans.

We do not say too much, when we charge ethical naturalism with dissolution of all moral principles.
Let {382} us examine them, for a moment, according to the old but still fundamental division
into duty, virtue, and highest good.

According to the principles of that ethical naturalism, there can be no duty at all, no objective
moral law, binding absolutely and in general. The motives of action are either the strongest
and most durable instincts, or, in case of high culture, conventional agreement of that which
benefits society. In the one as well as in the other case, when the duty is neglected, the
appeal is not made to something absolutely objective and binding, but either to the highest
instinct (and to this every individual has the right to answer with a Quod nego), or to agreement
and custom; and as to this, every individual has the right to make his reformatory or revolutionary
attempt at change--of course only upon the condition that his attempt is successful, and that
it stands proof.

Relatively it is easiest for ethical naturalism to establish a principle of virtue, inasmuch
as we have to look upon virtue as the principle of individual perfection, and inasmuch as even
naturalism, by means of the indestructible impulse of man to attain moral ideas, can postulate
an ideal of human action. But on closer examination even the naturalistic idea of virtue vanishes
under our hands. Virtue, as individual morality, is constituted of the factors of duty and
of the highest good, which form the motives of virtuous action. Now a system of morality which,
as we have seen, is entirely wanting in an objective solid principle of duty as the motive
of action, and which likewise, as we shall see immediately, is wanting in an objectively established
highest good as the end of action, cannot possibly {383} produce any other idea of virtue than
an abstract formal one. In ethical naturalism, even this form is subject to change. For, according
to this system, not only the motive and end but also the form of moral action depend on that
which in every circle of society and at every time proves to be the most successful form. It
is the proof of success or failure which gives this form a certain traditional authority and
a relative solidity--but only a relative one, and only until it is displaced by a still more
successful form.

That, finally, ethical naturalism is also wanting in an objective end of moral action, in the
idea and meaning of the highest good, is indeed not denied by naturalism itself. It is true
it speaks with predilection of the idea of species, which man is to represent and to realize,
and in that respect we can say that the highest good of naturalistic ethologists is the species
or the idea of species.[11] But the idea of species is only the empty vessel which first becomes
valuable by reason of its contents. Now, if we ask ethical naturalism the properties with which
that idea of species is to be endowed, it certainly mentions properties, but those which are
too rich; namely, it mentions the idea of all that is good in human life and the forms of human
life, in concreto, the whole sum of all the conditions and acquisitions of the culture of mankind,
art, nature, and science: the comprehensive idea of these acquisitions, the enjoyment of them,
the work at them, is the highest good. Now, since no human individual can enjoy them all and
work at them all at the same time, every individual, as {384} to disposition, inclination,
and circumstances, has to enjoy a part of them, to work at a part of them, and to renounce
a part of them. And since each single one of these good things, however valuable to the individual,
may be refused to or taken away from him, he has again to learn to be satisfied with that idea
of species, however little it is able to offer him, when separated from the empiric possessions
of this earthly life. Thus with naturalism the highest good is either mentioned in an abstraction
which does not offer us anything, or which, if we ask the meaning of that abstraction, is instantly
drawn down into the low sphere and the varied multiformity of empirical and individual life,
left to the chance of individual taste, and confounded with that which is connected with the
highest good only in the second line and in a derived manner--namely, with the formations and
actions of life which strive at and serve the realization of the highest good. Ethical naturalism
is not able to produce out of itself an objective highest good which is for each individual
alike attractive, rich, and comprehensive.

