 When I see one adorned in a bonnet at the back of her head,
with a profusion, inside, of the brightest artificial flowers, a bright vulgar shawl and dress,
and an enormous hoop, with very narrow petticoats, I always wish to rush home, light a large
bonfire, and throw into the flames every article of ornamental dress that I possess.

But to return to dear Topsy. We asked her if she were a slave, feeling very backward to put
so trying a question to her; but she answered with the utmost simplicity, that she was, just
as if we had asked her if she were from France or Germany. In reply to our questions, she said
that her father and mother were slaves; that she has several younger brothers and sisters;
that Miss D. is very rich. "'Spect she has above a hundred slaves;" and that she is very kind
to them all. "Can you read?" "No; Miss D. has often tried to teach me, but I never could learn.
'Spect I am too large to learn now." We lectured her about this, and gave her Sir Edward Parry's
favourite advice, to "try again." I then asked her if she went to church. "No, never." "Does
Miss D.?" "Mighty seldom." "Do you know who made you?" "Yes, God." "Do you ever pray?" "No,
never; used to, long ago; but," with a most sanctimonious drawl, "feel such a burden like,
when I try to kneel down, that I can't." This was such a gratuitous imitation of what she must
have heard the goody[6] niggers say, that I felt sorely disposed to give her young black ears
a sound boxing, for supposing such a piece of acting could impose upon us. However, leaving
the dark ears alone, I urged the duty of prayer upon her, as strongly and simply as I could,
and made her promise to kneel down every night and morning and pray. She had heard of Christ,
and repeated some text (again a quotation, no doubt, from the goody niggers) about his death;
but she did not know, on further examination, who He is, nor what death He died. She said Miss
D. read to them all, every Sunday; but probably not in a very instructive manner. She said
her name was Almira. I gave her Miss Marsh's "Light for the Line," which happened to be the
only book I had by me which was at all suitable, and told her to get it read to her, and that
I was sorry I had nothing else to give her; but I shall try this morning to get her an alphabet,
in order to encourage her to make another attempt to learn to read. At parting last night,
I spoke as solemnly as I could to her, and told her we should probably never meet again in
this world, but that we should be sure to meet hereafter, at the judgment seat of God, and
I entreated her to remember the advice I had given her.

As we do not know Miss D., who is a very deaf old lady, staying here, like ourselves, for a
day or two, our conferences with young Topsy have been necessarily very short, and constantly
interrupted by Miss D.'s coming past us, and wanting her; but we should like very much to buy
Almira, and bring her home to make a nursery maid of her, and teach her all she ought to know,
and "'spect" after all she is not "too large" to learn, poor young slave! It was pleasant,
in our first colloquy of the kind, to talk to such an innocent specimen of a slave. I mean
innocent, as respects her ignorance of the horrors of slavery, of which she evidently had not
even the faintest idea. I asked her what she did for Miss D.? "Dresses her, does her room,
and fixes her up altogether." The real, original Topsy is no doubt a most correctly drawn character,
judging by this specimen. And now adieu; you shall have a further chapter on Washington next time.

FOOTNOTE:

[6] I have tried, in vain, to alter this word, which is one coined at home, and used by the
family, but cannot find a substitute for it. Lest, however, it be misunderstood, I must explain
that it is applied in reference to the truly good and pious among our friends; as the word
"saints," ought to be, had not that term been unhappily associated with the ridiculous, and
a false pretension to religion.

                                          Washington, 18th Oct. 1858.

I despatched my last to you the day before yesterday, and now must give you an account of our
employments yesterday (Sunday, 17th instant). The morning was very hot, and very lovely, with
a clear blue sky, and I wished that impertinent young lady, Emily, could see what sort of weather
we have here, and how her good wishes for us are accomplished, beyond anything she can suppose;
for we can barely support the heat in the middle of the day.

The weather being so lovely, we set off to a church in Georgetown, a suburb of Washington,
where many of the foreign ministers live, and a very pretty suburb it is; but when we got there,
papa's head began to ache so much, that we thought it best to return to a church nearer the
hotel, so that if he became worse, he might leave the church, and walk home. We were able,
however, to sit out the service, and heard a very dull sermon from a young missionary, who
was to sail, two days afterwards, with his wife, from Baltimore, for Africa; his sermon was
greatly taken from Livingstone's book, and he spoke more strongly against slavery than we should
have looked for in a slave state. After the sermon, papa and I went to him, and we asked him
a little about where he was going, &c. &c. He scarcely seemed to know, acknowledged he was
but little acquainted with the work he had before him, and, finally, when papa put a piece
of gold into his hand, he looked at it, and asked whether it was for himself or the Mission.
We answered with some degree of inward surprise, that it was for any useful object connected
with it, and we took leave of him, wishing him God-speed, but lamenting that a more efficient
man was not going out.

Papa became much more head-achy during the day. Mr. Erskine called to see if we wanted anything,
and strongly advised my going to a negro chapel in the evening, and hearing one of the blacks
preach. They are mostly Methodists, that is Wesleyans, or Baptists. He said I should hear them
singing as I passed the doors, and could go in. Poor papa, by this time, was fit for nothing
except to remain quiet, so Thrower and I set out in the evening, and found, not without some
difficulty, an upper room, brilliantly lighted, over a grocer's warehouse. We went up two pairs
of stairs, and I did so in fear and trembling, remembering what the odour is when a large dining-room
is filled with black waiters: a sort of sickly, sour smell pervades the room, that makes one
hate the thought, either of dinner, or of the poor niggers themselves. It seems it is inherent
in their skin; to my surprise and satisfaction, however, we found nothing of the kind in this
room, the windows of which had been well opened beforehand. It was a large, whitewashed apartment,
half filled with blacks.

We were the only whites present; there were benches across the room, leaving a passage up the
middle, the men and women occupying different sides. A pulpit was at the further end of the
room, and in front of it stood a black preaching. He was in the middle of his sermon when we
came in, so we did not hear the text, and sat down quietly at some distance from him, so as
to be able to get out and go home to poor papa whenever we wished; a nigger came forward, and
invited us to go further up the room, which we declined. The sermon went on for some time;
it described the happiness felt by God's true children: and how they would cling to each other
in persecution. The preacher encouraged them all in the path of holiness, and explained the
Gospel means of salvation with great clearness, and really with admirably chosen words; there
was a little action but not too much; and there were no vulgarities. The discourse was at least
equal to the sermons of many of our dissenting ministers, and appeared to come from the lips
of an educated gentleman, although with a black skin. He finished, and an old negro rose, and
gave out the text:--"And seeing the multitudes, He went up into a mountain," &c. His voice
at first was faint, and I could not hear what were the various jokes he cut which produced
loud laughter, so we advanced a little. He afterwards became more serious. His address was
quite distinct from his text, being an earnest and very well delivered exhortation to the converted
to grow in grace; at the end of every period he repeated his text as a refrain.

At first, I observed among the dark ladies a few suppressed murmurs of approbation, but as
his discourse proceeded, these were turned into groans; and when he quoted a text, or said
anything more than usually impressive, there was a regular rocking and swaying of the figure
among them, while one or two repeated aloud the last words of his text. While he was preaching,
a tall thin young woman, in deep mourning, came in, and room was made for her to sit down next
to a very fat negress, whom I had observed at our own church in the morning. The latter passed
her arm round the shoulder of this young woman, as they sat together, and I observed that at
various solemn passages of the old man's address, they began to rock their bodies, gently at
first, but afterwards more and more violently, till at last they got into a way of rocking
themselves quite forward off their seat, and then on it again, the fat woman cuddling up the
thin one more and more closely to her. There seemed a sort of mesmeric influence between the
two, occasioning in both similar twistings and contortions of the body, shakings of the head,
lookings upward, lookings downward, and louder words of exclamation and approbation. This was
not continuous in its violence, though there was generally some movement between them; but
the violence of it came on in fits, and was the effect of the old man's words. It was very
curious that whenever he repeated the text (a far from exciting one, I thought), the agitation
became most violent. The other women continued to murmur applause, and one woman in advance
of the others (a very frightful one) looked upwards, and frequently smiled a heavenly (?) smile.
I sat rather behind most of them, and on the side where the men were, so that unless when the
women turned round, I could scarcely see their faces. After a time the old man commented upon
the succeeding verses of the Chapter as far as the words, "Blessed are the poor in spirit,"
&c., and here he ceased, almost abruptly; a hymn was immediately given out by the first preacher,
and was sung most loudly and vigorously by most of the congregation. The men's voices were
very loud, but they all sang true, and with great spirit and energy. There were no musical
instruments, and they sat while singing. The hymns seemed very stirring, but I am sorry I cannot
give you the words of any of them, as there were no books, and they sung at first from memory,
though in some of the after hymns the preacher gave them out by two lines at a time.

This being, as I was afterwards told, a Baptist class-meeting, the first man invited any brother
or sister to tell the others "how the Lord had dealt with him," or "what He had done for his
soul." (I quote his words.) Whereupon a tall well-dressed young negro rose from his seat, and
standing up, told us that he had been a great sinner, and that he had, through many difficulties,
learnt to serve God. He spoke of persecutions from within in the struggles of a sinful nature
and of great and bitter ones from without. He did not describe what these had been: but told
us that the victory had been his. His language, and choice of expressions, were always good,
though at times there was a little of the peculiar negro pronunciation. At all descriptions
of the contest having been in his favour, the women swayed their bodies; and when he, and others
after him, asserted to those around that what he had felt could not have been from Satan, and
therefore must have been from God, there was great agitation, especially in my two friends,
and grins and murmurs from the others. The men listened quietly, sometimes grinning with delight,
and sometimes leaning their heads forward on their hands, as if meditating. A few of the men
who sat at the upper end of the room leant their heads against the wall, and might have been
asleep.

After this young man's "experience" was ended, came another singing of hymns, and then another
invitation for more "experiences;" when a tall, fat, important-looking man rose: his figure
reminded one of a fat, burly London butler; and his account of himself was somewhat extravagant.
"Heart was hard as stone; a great sinner; was standing in an orchard; couldn't love God or
pray; seemed as if a great light came from the sky; got behind a tree; the light came nearer;
seemed as if drawing me," &c. &c.; ending in the happy circumstance of his complete conversion;
and he sat down, his discourse producing the same agitating effects, and of an increasing kind
on all the women, specially on my fat and thin friends. Then came another hymn, and another
invitation; which was followed by the preacher's going up to a young negress and speaking a
few words to her in a whisper; whereupon he told us, that a young person, who had been wonderfully
"dealt with by the Lord," was about to give an account of herself. The young girl, of about
twenty, black, but pleasing-looking, advanced, and standing straight up before the preacher,
repeated to him her experience almost as if it were a lesson she had learnt by heart. There
was a cadence, or sort of chant, in her delivery; but with the most perfect quietness of manner.
She had been, she said, a great sinner; and she then gave an account of herself at much greater
length than the others. In speaking of the difficulties that had met her in her spiritual path,
there was a very musical and touching mournfulness in her voice that made her an object of
great interest. The men, at least, seemed to think so; for they all became most lively, grinned
gloriously, their splendid white teeth contrasting with their dark skins; my two friends became
nearly frantic, the one in mourning especially, when shaken by the agitation of her fat friend,
writhed her body in all directions. They both began shouting, "Glory! Glory!" with a loud voice;
and finally the younger one fell forward on her face, in a sort of trance. After a time she
got back upon her seat; but I never witnessed such a state of excitement, except once, years
ago, when I saw a young woman in an epileptic fit. All this was evidently in a sort of small
camp-meeting style. August is the month for these meetings when out of doors; but this was
a minor one. The woman in front grinned, and even laughed outright, having great hollows or
dimples in her cheeks. The young girl was really interesting, so perfectly calm and so modest;
never looking to the right or left. She said she felt ashamed to appear before them all, but
that she should not be ashamed to appear before God: and whenever interrupted, she resumed
the thread of her narrative with the utmost composure. She ended after a time, but remained
standing before the preacher, who was seated, and who proceeded to examine her as to whether
she thought she was really converted to God. Her answers were faint, as if from fatigue and
exhaustion, her narrative having been a very long one; but still there was a quiet, unfaltering
decision in her replies, which were given with much humility of manner. I could not help sometimes
doubting whether the whole thing was really unprepared and extemporaneous, or whether she might
not have learnt her lesson and repeated it by rote, or whether, in short, it might not have
been a piece of acting. This impression lasted only for a moment, for there was such an artless
and modest manner in the young girl, that I could not fail on the whole to give her the fullest
credit for sincerity, and was angry only with her black male friends for requiring from her
such a display of herself and her feelings in a public congregation; which made me feel much
for the young girl throughout. After various warnings that she would meet with difficulties,
that she was joining a "plain set of old Baptist saints," &c., she said she wished and desired
to do so. The preacher then asked, almost in the words of the Liturgy, "Wilt thou be baptized?"
and she answered, "I will." Whereupon he asked the congregation to show by their hands if they
approved of her being baptized; and there being a sufficient show of hands, she was told she
was duly elected as a candidate for baptism; when another hymn being struck up in the same
vociferous style as before, we rose and left the assembly, not liking to be longer absent from
papa. We came out upon the lovely, calm, moonlight night, so sweet, so exquisitely heavenly;
and I felt how differently nature looked without, to those distressing sights of bodily agitation
and contortion we had witnessed within. I thought of the poor young negro girl's quiet testimony,
and gentle voice and manner, and wondered if she, too, would learn in time to become uproarious,
and shout, "Glory! Glory!" The probability is, that she will become like her neighbours; for
I can tell you later other stories about the necessity these poor nigger women seem to be under
to shout "Glory!" I was glad to have seen this specimen of the camp-meeting style.

Although I have felt it scarcely possible to describe the scene without a certain mixture of
the ludicrous, no feeling of irreverence crossed my mind at the time. On the contrary, my sympathies
were greatly drawn out towards these our poor fellow-creatures; and there was something most
instructive in the sight of them there assembled to enjoy those highest blessings--blessings
of which no man could rob them. Religion seemed to be to them not a mere sentiment or feeling,
but a real tangible possession; and one could read, in their appreciation of it, a lesson to
one's own heart of its power to lift man above all earthly sorrow, privation, and degradation
into an upper world, as it were, even here below, of "joy and peace in believing."

To-day, after posting our letters for England, papa went to General Cass, Secretary of State
for the United States, and delivered his letter of introduction from Mr. Dallas, the American
Minister in London. He had a long and interesting interview with him.

We went afterwards to the Capitol, and all over it, under the guidance of our coachman, a very
intelligent and civil Irishman. We were quite taken by surprise at what we saw; for not only
is the building itself, which is of white marble, a very fine one, but the internal fittings,
or "fixings," as they perpetually call them here, show a degree of taste for which before leaving
England we had not given the Americans credit. Two wings are now being added to the original
building, and are nearly completed; and a new and higher dome than the original one is being
built over the centre. The wings are destined to be occupied, one by the Senate, and the other
by the House of Representatives: in fact, the House of Representatives already make use of
their wing; but the Senate will still hold another session in the old Senate House, as the
Senators have not yet quite decided upon their "fixings." The new chamber is, however, sufficiently
advanced to enable us to form a judgment of what it will be; and although, perhaps, inferior
in beauty to that of the House of Representatives, it is in very good taste: but the room where
the Representatives meet is really most beautiful. The seats are ranged in semi-circles, with
desks before each, in much the same manner as in Paris; which gives a more dignified appearance
than the arrangement of the seats in our House of Commons. The floors throughout a great part
of the building are in very good tesselated work, made by Minton, in England; as the tiles
made in this country do not preserve their colour like the English ones. The ceilings of some
of the passages are beautifully decorated; and one of the committee rooms, appropriated to
agricultural matters, is remarkably well painted in fresco; all the subjects have allusion
to agricultural pursuits. In the centre of the building, round the circular part, under the
dome, are some very indifferent pictures, representing subjects connected with the history
of America, beginning with the landing of Columbus. Two out of the eight represented incidents
in the war of independence; one being the surrender of Lord Cornwallis, who seemed very sorry
for himself. The view from the Capitol is fine; the gardens round it are kept in good order,
and there being a great deal of maple in the woods, the redness of the leaf gave a brilliant
effect to the scene.

From the Capitol we went to the Patent Office, in which are contained an endless variety of
models. It is immediately opposite the Post Office, and both are splendid buildings of white
marble. The Post Office is still unfinished, but it will be of great size. The Patent-Office
is an enormous square building. The four sides, which are uniform, have large flights of stairs
on the outside, leading to porticos of Corinthian pillars. We entered the building, and went
into a large apartment, where we were lost in contemplation of the numerous models, which we
admired exceedingly, though the shortness of the time we had to devote to them prevented our
examining them as minutely as they seemed to deserve. Papa, indeed, was disposed to be off
when we had gone through this room, as we had still much to do, and he professed his belief
that we must have seen the whole. I, having my wits more about me, could not conceive how this
could well be the case, seeing we had only looked at one out of four sides. There is no one
in these places to show them to strangers, so we asked a respectable-looking person if there
were any more rooms, when he replied, "Oh, yes! you have only been looking at the rejected
models." Whereupon we entered on the second side of the square; but, to confess the truth,
the rejected and accepted ones seemed to us much of a piece, and we were not sorry, on arriving
at the third side, to find it shut up and apparently empty, so we beat a retreat. We were told
at Baltimore that the collection was a very fine one, and doubtless it may be very interesting
to a person competent to judge of the details; but the models, besides being shut up in glass-cases,
and consequently very inaccessible, were generally on too small a scale to be comprehended
by ordinary observers, and in this respect, the collection was of much less interest to us
than the exhibition we had lately seen in the unfortunate Crystal Palace at New York, where
the models exhibited were of the full size of the machines meant to be used, and consequently
almost intelligible to an unprofessional person. Besides what may be strictly considered models,
there were in the rooms some objects more suited to an ordinary museum. Such were various autographs,
and many relics of Washington; and a case containing locks of the hair of all the presidents,
from the time of Washington downwards.

When mentioning our visit to General Cass, I omitted to state the magnificence of the Treasury,
which adjoins his official residence; an enormous structure, also of white marble. We counted
thirty pillars in front, of the Ionic order, besides three more recently added on a wing, these
three pillars of great height being cut out of single blocks of marble. We passed this building
again in going from the Patent-Office to Lord Napier's, where we had an appointment with Mr.
Erskine.

The noble mansion of England's representative is a cube of brick-work painted dark-brown, equal
in size, and very much resembling in appearance, our own D. P. H.; but standing in a melancholy
street, without the appendages of green-house, conservatory, and gate, as in that choice London
mansion. The Honourable Secretary's apartment was downstairs in the area, and the convenience
of its proximity to the kitchen, with the thermometer at 85° in the shade, as it was to-day,
was doubtless duly appreciated by him, he having just arrived from Turin. We found him waiting
for us, and he accompanied us to the President's residence, called the White House. It is a
handsome but unpretending building, not like its neighbours, of marble, but painted to look
like stone; the public reception-rooms are alone shown, but a good-natured servant let us see
the private rooms, and took us out on a sort of terrace behind, where we had a lovely view
of the Potomac. The house is situated in a large garden, opposite to which, on the other side
of the road, is a handsome, and well-kept square. The house has no pretensions about it, but
would be considered a handsome country house in England; and the inside is quite in keeping,
and well furnished. The furniture is always renewed when a new President takes possession;
and as this is the case every four years, it cannot well become shabby.

In a line directly opposite the back of the house, and closing up the view at the end of the
gardens, stands the monument which is being erected to Washington. This, when finished, is
to be a circular colonnaded building, 250 feet in diameter, and 100 feet high, from which is
to spring an obelisk 70 feet wide at the base, and 500 feet high, so that, when completed,
the whole will be as high as if our monument in London were placed on the top of St. Paul's.
At present nothing but its ugly shaft is built, which has anything but a picturesque appearance,
and it is apparently likely to remain in this condition, as it is not allowed to be touched
by any but native republican hands, here a rather scarce commodity. It is being built of white
stone, one of the many kinds found in this country. By the by, we omitted to state, in describing
the Capitol, that the balustrades of the staircases, and a good deal of ornamental work about
the building, are of marble, from a quarry lately discovered in Tennessee, of a beautiful darkish
lilac ground, richly grained with a shade of its own colour; it is very valuable, costing seven
dollars per cubic foot.

From the President's house we went to the Observatory, which, though unpretending in its external
appearance, is said to be the finest in the world next to the one at St. Petersburgh; so at
least says the Washington Guide Book, for I like to give our authority for what we ourselves
should not have supposed to be the case. Mr. Erskine introduced himself, and then us, to Lieutenant
Maury, who is at the head of it, and is well known as a writer on meteorological subjects.
He is a most agreeable man, and we talked much about the comet, meteoric stones, &c.; we asked
him what he thought of Professor Silliman's notion about the comet's tail being an electric
phenomenon, but he seemed to think little was known on the subject. He said this comet had
never been seen before, and might never return again, as its path seemed parabolic, and not
elliptical; but he said that what was peculiarly remarkable about it was the extreme agitation
observed in the tail, and even in the nucleus, the motion appearing to be vibratory. With regard
to meteoric stones, he said the one we saw at New Haven, though of such a prodigious size,
being 200 lbs. heavier than the one in the British Museum, was a fragment only of a larger
stone. We asked permission to go to the top of the observatory, and at a hint from papa, I
expressed the great desire I had to see Venus by daylight, through the great telescope; whereupon,
he sent for Professor B----, and asked him to take us up to the observatory, and to direct
the great telescope to Venus. We mounted accordingly, and I was somewhat alarmed when the whole
room in which we were placed, began to revolve upon its axis.

Setting the telescope takes some minutes, and the Professor ejected us from the room at the
top of the building on to a balcony, from which we had a most lovely view of the neighbouring
country. By means of a very good small telescope placed on a swivel, we could see most distinctly
the Military Retreat (the Chelsea of America), beautifully situated upon a high hill about
three miles off. We saw also through this telescope the Smithsonian Institute, which we were
glad to be able to study in this way in detail, as we found we should not have time to go to
it. It is a very large building of the architecture of the twelfth century, and the only attempt
at Mediæval architecture which we have seen in the United States.

The view of the Potomac and of the hill and buildings of George Town was very extensive and
remarkable; but before we had feasted our eyes sufficiently on it, we were summoned to see
one of the most lovely sights I ever witnessed. Though it was mid-day, and the sun was shining
most brilliantly, we saw the exquisitely sharp crescent of Venus in the pale sky, and about
half the apparent size of the moon. The object-glass of the instrument was divided into squares,
and she passed rapidly across the field of the telescope, sailing, as it were, in ether; by
the slightest motion of a tangent-screw of great length, we were able to bring her back as
often as we liked, to the centre of the field. This mechanical process might, however, have
been rendered unnecessary, had the machinery attached to the instrument been wound up; for
when this is the case, if the telescope is directed to any star or point in the heavens, it
continues to point to it for the whole twenty-four hours in succession, the machine revolving
round in the plane to which it is set. The instrument is a very powerful one, and, like the
smaller one we looked through before, was made by Fraunhofer, a famous optician at Munich.
There are some other very wonderful instruments which we had not time to see, as we had to
make desperate haste to get some dinner, and be off by the late train to Baltimore. But before
I take leave of this subject, I must return for a minute or two to that most perfectly lovely
creature Venus. She was a true crescent; we could imagine we saw the jagged edge of the inner
side of the crescent, but the transition from the planet to the delicate sky was so gradual,
that as far as this inner edge was concerned, this was probably only imagination. Her colouring
on this jagged side was of the most transparent silvery hue. The outer edge was very sharply
defined against the sky, and her colour shaded off on this side to a pale golden yellow with
a red or pink tint in it; this being the side she was presenting to the sun. No words can express
her beauty. She is the planet that I told you lately looked so very large.

