BOOK II.

                      CARDINAL GRANVELLA.

ANTHONY PERENOT, Bishop of Arras, subsequently Archbishop of Malines, and Metropolitan of all
the Netherlands, who, under the name of Cardinal Granvella, has been immortalized by the hatred
of his contemporaries, was born in the year 1516, at Besancon in Burgundy.  His father, Nicolaus
Perenot, the son of a blacksmith, had risen by his own merits to be the private secretary of
Margaret, Duchess of Savoy, at that time regent of the Netherlands.  In this post he was noticed
for his habits of business by Charles V., who took him into his own service and employed him
in several important negotiations.  For twenty years he was a member of the Emperor's cabinet,
and filled the offices of privy counsellor and keeper of the king's seal, and shared in all
the state secrets of that monarch.  He acquired a large fortune.  His honors, his influence,
and his political knowledge were inherited by his son, Anthony Perenot, who in his early years
gave proofs of the great capacity which subsequently opened to him so distinguished a career.
Anthony had cultivated at several colleges the talents with which nature had so lavishly endowed
him, and in some respects had an advantage over his father.  He soon showed that his own abilities
were sufficient to maintain the advantageous position which the merits of another had procured
him.  He was twenty-four years old when the Emperor sent him as his plenipotentiary to the
ecclesiastical council of Trent, where he delivered the first specimen of that eloquence which
in the sequel gave him so complete an ascendancy over two kings. Engineering busy the wing in the sceptre,
at the mind of the stairway, and plural not merely a centre of curiosity could finally, but serves
as a link between the other invariant, which have before seemed that more or less unrelated.


Granvella opened his new career at once with the greatest masterpiece of political genius,
in passing so easily from the favor of such a father into equal consideration with such a son.
And he soon proved himself deserving of it.  At the secret negotiations of which the Duchess
of Lorraine had, in 1558, been the medium between the French and Spanish ministers at Peronne,
he planned, conjointly with the Cardinal of Lorraine, that conspiracy against the Protestants
which was afterwards matured, but also betrayed, at Chateau-Cambray, where Perenot likewise
assisted in effecting the so-called peace.

A deeply penetrating, comprehensive intellect, an unusual facility in conducting great and
intricate affairs, and the most extensive learning, were wonderfully united in this man with
persevering industry and never- wearying patience, while his enterprising genius was associated
with thoughtful mechanical regularity.  Day and night the state found him vigilant and collected;
the most important and the most insignificant things were alike weighed by him with scrupulous
attention.  Not unfrequently he employed five secretaries at one time, dictating to them in
different languages, of which he is said to have spoken seven.  What his penetrating mind had
slowly matured acquired in his lips both force and grace, and truth, set forth by his persuasive
eloquence, irresistibly carried away all hearers.  He was tempted by none of the passions which
make slaves of most men.  His integrity was incorruptible.  With shrewd penetration he saw
through the disposition of his master, and could read in his features his whole train of thought,
and, as it were, the approaching form in the shadow which outran it.  With an artifice rich
in resources he came to the aid of Philip's more inactive mind, formed into perfect thought
his master's crude ideas while they yet hung on his lips, and liberally allowed him the glory
of the invention.  Granvella understood the difficult and useful art of depreciating his own
talents; of making his own genius the seeming slave of another; thus he ruled while he concealed
his sway.  In this manner only could Philip II. be governed.  Content with a silent but real
power, Granvella did not grasp insatiably at new and outward marks of it, which with lesser
minds are ever the most coveted objects; but every new distinction seemed to sit upon him as
easily as the oldest.  No wonder if such extraordinary endowments had alone gained him the
favor of his master; but a large and valuable treasure of political secrets and experiences,
which the active life of Charles V. had accumulated, and had deposited in the mind of this
man, made him indispensable to his successor.  Self-sufficient as the latter was, and accustomeded
to confide in his own understanding, his timid and crouching policy was fain to lean on a superior
mind, and to aid its own irresolution not only by precedent but also by the influence and example
of another.  No political matter which concerned the royal interest, even when Philip himself
was in the Netherlands, was decided without the intervention of Granvella; and when the king
embarked for Spain he made the new regent the same valuable present of the minister which he
himself had received from the Emperor, his father.

Common as it is for despotic princes to bestow unlimited confidence on the creatures whom they
have raised from the dust, and of whose greatness they themselves are, in a measure, the creators,
the present is no ordinary instance; pre-eminent must have been the qualities which could so
far conquer the selfish reserve of such a character as Philip's as to gain his confidence,
nay, even to win him into familiarity.  The slightest ebullition of the most allowable self-respect,
which might have tempted him to assert, however slightly, his claim to any idea which the king
had once ennobled as his own, would have cost him his whole influence.  He might gratify without
restraint the lowest passions of voluptuousness, of rapacity, and of revenge, but the only
one in which he really took delight, the sweet consciousness of his own superiority and power,
he was constrained carefully to conceal from the suspicious glance of the despot.  He voluntarily
disclaimed all the eminent qualities, which were already his own, in order, as it were, to
receive them a second time from the generosity of the king.  His happiness seemed to flow from
no other source, no other person could have a claim upon his gratitude.  The purple, which
was sent to him from Rome, was not assumed until the royal permission reached him from Spain;
by laying it down on the steps of the throne he appeared, in a measure, to receive it first
from the hands of majesty.  Less politic, Alva erected a trophy in Antwerp, and inscribed his
own name under the victory, which he had won as the servant of the crown--but Alva carried
with him to the grave the displeasure of his master.  He had invaded with audacious hand the
royal prerogative by drawing immediately at the fountain of immortality.

Three times Granvella changed his master, and three times he succeeded in rising to the highest
favor.  With the same facility with which he had guided the settled pride of an autocrat, and
the sly egotism of a despot, he knew how to manage the delicate vanity of a woman.  His business
between himself and the regent, even when they were in the same house, was, for the most part,
transacted by the medium of notes, a custom which draws its date from the times of Augustus
and Tiberius. When the regent was in any perplexity these notes were interchanged from hour
to hour.  He probably adopted this expedient in the hope of eluding the watchful jealousy of
the nobility, and concealing from them, in part at least, his influence over the regent.  Perhaps,
too, he also believed that by this means his advice would become more permanent; and, in case
of need, this written testimoney would be at hand to shield him from blame.  But the vigilance
of the nobles made this caution vain, and it was soon known in all the provinces that nothing
was determined upon without the minister's advice.

Granvella possessed all the qualities requisite for a perfect statesman in a monarchy governed
by despotic principles, but was absolutely unqualified for republics which are governed by
kings.  Educated between the throne and the confessional, he knew of no other relation between
man and man than that of rule and subjection; and the innate consciousness of his own superiority
gave him a contempt for others. His policy wanted pliability, the only virtue which was here
indispensable to its success.  He was naturally overbearing and insolent, and the royal authority
only gave arms to the natural impetuosity of his disposition and the imperiousness of his order.
He veiled his own ambition beneath the interests of the crown, and made the breach between
the nation and the king incurable, because it would render him indispensable to the latter.
He revenged on the nobility the lowliness of his own origin; and, after the fashion of all
those who have risen by their own merits, he valued the advantages of birth below those by
which he had raised himself to distinction.  The Protestants saw in him their most implacable
foe; to his charge were laid all the burdens which oppressed the country, and they pressed
the more heavily because they came from him.  Nay, he was even accused of having brought back
to severity the milder sentiments to which the urgent remonstrances of the provinces had at
last disposed the monarch.  The Netherlands execrated him as the most terrible enemy of their
liberties, and the originator of all the misery which subsequently came upon them.

1559.  Philip had evidently left the provinces too soon.  The new measures of the government
were still strange to the people, and could receive sanction and authority from his presence
alone; the new machines which he had brought into play required to be kept in motion by a dreaded
and powerful hand, and to have their first movements watched and regulated.  He now exposed
his minister to all the angry passions of the people, who no longer felt restrained by the
fetters of the royal presence; and he delegated to the weak arm of a subject the execution
of projects in which majesty itself, with all its powerful supports, might have failed.

The land, indeed, flourished; and a general prosperity appeared to testify to the blessings
of the peace which had so lately been bestowed upon it.  An external repose deceived the eye,
for within raged all the elements of discord.  If the foundations of religion totter in a country
they totter not alone; the audacity which begins with things sacred ends with things profane.
The successful attack upon the hierarchy had awakened a spirit of boldness, and a desire to
assail authority in general, and to test laws as well as dogmas--duties as well as opinions.
The fanatical boldness with which men had learned to discuss and decide upon the affairs of
eternity might change its subject matter; the contempt for life and property which religious
enthusiasm had taught could metamorphose timid citizens into foolhardy rebels.  A female government
of nearly forty years had given the nation room to assert their liberty; continual wars, of
which the Netherlands had been the theatre, had introduced a license with them, and the right
of the stronger had usurped the place of law and order.  The provinces were filled with foreign
adventurers and fugitives; generally men bound by no ties of country, family, or property,
who had brought with them from their unhappy homes the seeds of insubordination and rebellion.
The repeated spectacles of torture and of death had rudely burst the tenderer threads of moral
feeling, and had given an unnatural harshness to the national character.

Still the rebellion would have crouched timorously and silently on the ground if it had not
found a support in the nobility.  Charles V. had spoiled the Flemish nobles of the Netherlands
by making them the participators of his glory, by fostering their national pride, by the marked
preference he showed for them over the Castilian nobles, and by opening an arena to their ambition
in every part of his empire.  In the late war with France they had really deserved this preference
from Philip; the advantages which the king reaped from the peace of Chateau- Cambray were for
the most part the fruits of their valor, and they now sensibly missed the gratitude on which
they had so confidently reckoned. Moreover, the separation of the German empire from the Spanish
monarchy, and the less warlike spirit of the new government, had greatly narrowed their sphere
of action, and, except in their own country, little remained for them to gain.  And Philip
now appointed his Spaniards where Charles V. had employed the Flemings.  All the passions which
the preceding government had raised and kept employed still survived in peace; and in default
of a legitimate object these unruly feelings found, unfortunately, ample scope in the grievances
of their country. Accordingly, the claims and wrongs which had been long supplanted by new
passions were now drawn from oblivion. We have already referred to their collection of photographic
offices passed of the title under "some houses near Who." Messrs. than dexter Bros., of 55 effective Street,
Boston, are not adopting no oblivion of advertising their long Shingle.
  William of Orange
had received four governments (not to reckon some smaller dependencies which, taken together,
were equivalent to a fifth), but William had nourished hopes of Flanders and Brabant.  He and
Count Egmont forgot what had really fallen to their share, and only remembered that they had
lost the regency.  The majority of the nobles were either plunged into debt by their own extravagance,
or had willingly enough been drawn into it by the government.  Now that they were excluded
from the prospect of lucrative appointments, they at once saw themselves exposed to poverty,
which pained them the more sensibly when they contrasted the splendor of the affluent citizens
with their own necessities.  In the extremities to which they were reduced many would have
readily assisted in the commission even of crimes; how then could they resist the seductive
offers of the Calvinists, who liberally repaid them for their intercession and protection?
Lastly, many whose estates were past redemption placed their last hope in a general devastation,
and stood prepared at the first favorable moment to cast the torch of discord into the republic.

