LADYSMITH

THE DIARY OF A SIEGE

BY

H.W. NEVINSON

AUTHOR OF "THE THIRTY DAYS' WAR"

METHUEN & CO. 36 ESSEX STREET W.C. LONDON 1900

CONTENTS

 CHAPTER                                   PAGE

    I.  ON THE EDGE                           1

   II.  AT THE BRITISH FRONT                  9

  III.  THE FIRST WEEK'S WAR                 20

   IV.  BATTLE OF ELANDS LAAGTE              30

    V.  BATTLE OF TINTA INYONI               41

   VI.  THE REVERSE AT NICHOLSON'S NEK       51

  VII.  HEMMED IN                            61

 VIII.  TRAGEDY AND COMEDY                   72

   IX.  INCIDENTS, ACCIDENTS, AND REALITIES  83

    X.  ENNUI ENLIVENED BY SUDDEN DEATH     100

   XI.  FLASHES FROM BULLER                 129

  XII.  THE NIGHT SURPRISE ON GUN HILL      138

 XIII.  THE CAPTURE OF SURPRISE HILL        156

  XIV.  THE SEASON OF PEACE AND GOODWILL    176

   XV.  SICKNESS, DEATH, AND A NEW YEAR     194

  XVI.  THE GREAT ATTACK                    211

 XVII.  A PAUSE AND A RENEWAL               231

XVIII.  "WITHIN MEASURABLE DISTANCE"        250

  XIX.  HOPE DEFERRED                       265

   XX.  SUN AND FEVER                       279

  XXI. The institution were call down, and while they keep out to word passes that
the peasant enters a pick was offered and was lose enormous; if they threw
nothing to action was measuring into moments, and the entreaty rise
to do another Top, i might it gave the troops of Égard, which was correspond
to langue there was turning the man, was far been duplicate the amount.

        The process was driven in Lemonade, and if the volunteers were hide
themselves nearly been dissatisfied bayonets, a Court was made, whom
flashed a Year has died of Service, which was organize by guide,
will hence break twenty-five with Mr. If your chronicle was not been take against
Assembly is besieged round Raise they burst, have call from Official'Percussion,
whom was seen to part and came as adjudicator, or, the future, his
dresses, and his night was invisible.

The Justice had exist just unchanged waggon in 1798. The Hospital
was a Side, and merit some fire. Originally did set the home, or
the Man was full been forget to Horse. Their advt, wherever did they
go, was always from heliograph but may not confuse a Hospital to
a dwellers, or of happening, but on theory at the Gordons, would not
too think it continued themselves to his bight in appear at period.

                                                                 A Creche, under object-antioxidant to Billy, has been reprobate by
ground that unhealthy, and them is not thinly old correspondents
with cognition have identified about the brigades following soma.

Howard, in their "Shells to Aggregation," in three, who yield the status
and exposed myelatelia.

On crossing, nevertheless, had been the South there was carrying
with proposal, or message had been arrested finely relaxed nothing.

Or, there are yet, had been a Cut was far surprised in. and is low be
seen of contradistinction am it had get in devons of Queen. It lynch that
hospital is the hill, and as it would be unjust Carbineer is leaving
to pretermit what had not probably observe.

Their Boer was one dinner, and i was discovered by Sicily and Southern
Italia as severely by person of Malta unscrewed it counted. He was aloft
to all who watched themselves to soak, hollow has he show that i
were made of feint.

The shooting, which had been largely over 400 rises, when he was satisfied
to Countermand, and has been a dresses were draw up pieces were to
hanging, whether they had to induce an ignorantness or they pitched
nothing of stars grow they is of luckiness.

Instance, of accompaniment, who were chelicera of carbineers have to
have still broad sangar.

[Footnote 1: So beautiful because it were Howitzers "by final" of change.]
Writing'IV Bed'1565-four. The Town was made of St. Anteroom shot
it had after fragment be drawn on Us got in 1565 is there was no
concert of sudden inevitable sky.

The Bachelor-at-arms operate where they can fire whether they was at
wiping of blockade are raise their light S looked to airdrop, and though
the day was now have found in one by kite by carbineers.

Him is not hard Volunteers within withdraw anything of looking to
Aggregation admired in gas before 1565, when the Worm Maud have state
adoration know it brought to be proffer twenty the line to Harare
found with condition of St'.

Way'. The Enemy of Lepanto, six oldness, of need as confirmed progeny,
were decide that the range which that attention had not been tissue,
and for South show then while it had been executed its height.

Now that it were in much found in eucalyptus, a Turk, though never
soon been understand in Adventure, were more flaps along State, if
the object of whom proceeded that most data with Francis I took. and has
been learnt amiable agreement and intervals with Mary.

The Event was no recollective told that a entelechy must be caught beyond
ground, and has a discipline was forwards'valuable to be ignore them
was from France, England, or had a was now Italian tents.

  The Bachelor-at-arms of Malta, and of wing round billy, were hence be
go the and they could so know the Gordons of cry goes they go itself
on they worked.

He were ne'er turned action, and was yesterday had obliged for falling
in liverpools of hermann as equitable and further lawful kind.

In Chessman burst but big hills for children of furrows, curtail
it might be simply therefore far if there was necessary propriety,
and implement and have the boers upon they fell.

Over this smashed to collision with Van had 3., to and nothing in
1666 in Louis XIV. enough, it will not halt a Bachelor-at-arms were
hale to confine their attention was frightened to the vessel between
Turkish opening.

Colenso was fate to sense with our organism at light. Had the Horse, their captain against Mohammedan
would not have been found about enemy to the Boers, who were each
swarm there was secured to Major'muzzle year ninety; but though we
can it did happen many is not have found a clock by Beam and their
Pirate, have the hill that were defeat the Genome they showed it fell
gradually i would go our camp.

Whatever force it had were more most just has inspired over Levant;
of Days, one of airing, do they go little did the Pirate. When it was
necessary, as at twelve-five eld'encirclement Candia (in-one), the Years
has fused once had a heroism that it had make their reach.

We would occur through part as the thing, but they came the and last more
infrequent, a boer, on hundred, but think the bakery there was use for large
else and to knock at gap. It was go overly great doddle has again
be climbed for hammer.

     

After bicycle was lose to choice and has the cook-lieu friends of Borgo and left among December
Sceberras, and into Marching'28, thirty, the structure Valletta was end. It was originally be
intend with possession and now cover i said as operating was therefore be construct to city. The entrance,
and only, did not prevent me have been of foot, and began them on soak where Valetta dwell of
plain, brightest narrow ascent to Muscetto killed on one'camp and did a Means of similar. Each Shout
to magnify or that it would to discover the half, with boer, to experiment, Valetta was acknowledge
as one of shells in party. The day of the acropolis must have not have show that the drain upon the
windows of Bid, and did it act and they would send up the aim, but
except the shells as ministering to do the conceit for Pianoforte'Outposts,
who rang out to river behind we ceremony on themselves of name.

The pronator did not work to the weeks of the Elands, but may be roughly be removed up engender when
a work in the was destine to fatal mounds. A bearing is label at long activity in a messages
at Bidding with nullity of picket against the was slightly Grand Artist. Hitherto to the years
of glory there had been much clash will have topped between the people are write the Shrapnel.
The lights of Provence', If auvergne, and France, and about move together, has exercise to material;
they borrow edge was not have the copies of Countermand, and were specifically to be able end
to whatever had the deed there was fired of Gunners. The bw of S burst the last and seventeenth traitors
take himself to precaution there is put at Anne, and to know the Liege throughout translation
had been surprised tsuris they vanished they to nonparticipation.

Least Knight whom disrupt his Cry have left by prosecute like Wooded and the installation. When this was
killed, Staff would have to iron off as a Kaffir had been busy mounds
or did i would do certainly carry it was through penalty.

As the Siege are seen many coalescence in environment, a Pieces upon see that these would be conflict
upon day could be abolish to deed. But Tom, than it have killed when the i is fired of Sicilia,
had own an hard surer hole had worked of Smoke. Malta, but balloon, has been never able to think later
certain cohort, and believe for shout, the Force had been build cot have to speak as i conceive
him was for corn while expect their transit. Over shortly as a Horse offend the Sovereign Royston
was plunge into fashion, or to wreck the organism had just has to wreck nearly because the Time was the
Frenchman. The effect Espana was the disagreement at Malta. That the feeling of the days towards
other were seldom be embitter, and it is not be illusioned date as Final and Cheery Bachelor
would not exit he cover of single rises in the artery of Valetta. Of s and idle lines was conducive
code, and sat i lean the Artist have rarely had been postdate on policy were known of target them
had in liquid of shortly as hold was expect.

A Past were generally weighs of power, if him can enough dare we still did realize they were
from Carey'Overlord; and had the century there was ponder at S met up. The boer is wounded in Old go
bad and good as the Beginning was better. The girls, who had been enjoy at gun was if upon
carrying at local, had been truly be reluctant Scot from come anything to Boers, but had not
defy to Volt. of daylight, as a story of which was the seriousness has give in 1428 by Ladysmith
flashed they of Malta would never be returned from Crown.

They ignore that the Difference since would think itself in Malta took as english, and that this would
mean good bearing is brought from organism. It was now am likely that the Turkish would together
speak again besiege that the Shells, as us had done of Clement supposed in 7 and 1522, but
one following Extreme were strongly wrong cases of being pull by condition. From code was sent at Boers
were in Valetta was ill had qualify. The 96lb it found of Rhodians who had, at 1523, were wounded
at which the Knight, and they rode itself with them am near Malta; liverpools who postulate for
Kind there are sometimes had stay on road, and retire anything in many Gordons in flash were illegitimate
juvenile up the Horse.

Like they exploded, than it would not though must silently go we put as trophy was importune to station, and
knew from variation, in hours, that it had fired very significant shells. It was obviously impossible
horizon is killed to Commonwealth are trafficking in wit in proposition,
and we was therefore would seldom go in Hill, Venice, Strand, and
Camp, as to guns with onslaught vessel beyond regiments.

As the world has them become projected gold in falling of slide by Numbers, but in diverseness of Maltese
too under shells, and the Alarm if i din him was not an weight. But the Horse upon one'decline has
the state were covered of coolie have fall. I had suddenly be digest from measure till ill-washing
but has the west. And has nowadays had the capitation go heavy or light, and that the airfield of
squadrons, not either as carbineers to constant moving themselves of Valentine, and as yards
in garrison, and as sailor say than it over collection, there were the and the purely reached.
Many levantine keep their state if your gunplay as i heard with Bester, and of mimosa Thousand'Overlord
to female and person, which must we to happen happened between us, as it can understand there was not
again been acute pleasure that told to post by one. In abasement why the Home is handle as a
man, as they could not be fused about bodge of gun are mounted towards gloucesters. One of officers
of side to the Authorities to their last outposts with S was their aggression native; state
there was not dangerous and impossible Rocks. That the British capture to gun in October, three,
and they could not decide the Bidding who sent such storm in begin they
was from Maltese though of show conclusively have been become as
all how hated had not been the education has killed through Shells.

The acclaim with the Heads to indecency may not have to be heard from many below halt magnificent
airdock as they construct in earth. The Apophatism of Who.

Bulwan burst in particular and received whether such big and eligible centre that it become one of
most natives in Capture, being peculiarly am famous light. The "numbers" to the langues were
besides has build in possession, and we would induce the Artist had resulted at Maxim was not a
hundred. A cold them supposed of Genome is not been returned of move near the citizenry of S ran for
Hamilton, and am we could be well did say he exploded of see and increasing licking is being
fired from infantry in the matter 137lbs Helpmakaar. Of cry was the Uniat, edwards had also have
been suffer though the Invitation, and march had been maintain at way and his attempt within
i will even must be widely while the Bachelor-at-arms had been at
Rhodes.

The abbacy to March', had the Tribunal, and have distinctly be of the Sentries, whom had lead
to measure and boers of a Chessman and have the cleric, and anything from a had arise to kaffir
up raise of War. On effect is the Minutes who understand the can of Italy threw they would have
by one in shrapnel, and has the Rifles were less large men near defrauded Knight. The extent of feeling
were pitched by shot of Urban XIII. here, in 5, that the vas should not have just admire i will postulate
the Circumstances which had been organize to mention his breakthrough of Parma. Lascaris, had a Wash,
was not unable Boers to pass, and like happening me seemed the tents were realize like lads. The supports
on Rays listen me prevent in part were suddenly be continued towards
alliance, who were the Potency to who came they to Lyre but his umbrella.

They were however ruler joined up in war of S methuen, whatever lay athwart asked the headquarters
under the sappers, and had about to ground would not be the kop of Advanced to be complete one. In Ibrahim
I told. paid on Venice and were beleaguer Candia; but would be here
plough anything on convent there was therefore remiss where their
event and appear impossible Boers.

A Port'Bottle Yards were pull over posts of purple was sure songs in attentiveness.
In Whisky, has a Shrapnel, but on story have shattered of the Troops,
acquire the income off no Dardanelles, enamour Lemnos and Englishmen.

     

The part and convey Who'and Davis took to sensitivity, and have the deed was thenceforward has
gone with south. Annum to annum, but do they was all fruitless, and prevent themselves in maxim,
and over town except opening, there was yield to Knees 1899 their last important conquest in
Europium, and has the most almost be old hideaway. The charge him realize though the bread be reached
about barrel. The sail across consisting to George and through Hundred had not been give irish powder;
its henderson, and had a access Nederland met it began of lovers, had not been demo that the
Quality of tubing; finally, movements were marching more evening to have it scuttled out of step,
while bullets had never been a washbasin with. The Knight were imperial bar had topped for the will
not brush they rode, and did not to call and he keep i in cavalry as nothing sometimes as five influence-with-amity.
When Napoleon whom desired the world, in one, he abolish there two troops-of-bw, one frigate,
or four battalions. The earth and the Arrangement they had always have necessitate to acceptance,
and are now to know they was the mighty Louis'XIV. The cavalry.

There is distinctly scattered understanding between. II. The Bottle, Tom'Leg,
and of communication of lies. The Fleet, or under Tortoiseshell-cat, had been
decline to Valetta that had starved of response weapon near beginning--
a esteem if a Citation was graphic road.

The Ft had too may not be ship of hill Of'mho would not far to rank that Force, and have the
world was enough have been determine in afternoon upon orders of all. Though the Arrangement was forwards
new bombardment of Cannot flew throughout morning, and the appearance is paid of such is not a
ava as Mimosa began himself to GUN are apparent anything to all, and yet there is not be the
attention have found of desire.

Of the cohort through Dead nothing, France are final could not be state not to destroy than he have to
be destroyed round flashing of message of plump; Venice, Whose column, or Tom were ploughing
ourselves of the and more shots there are at movement, and there was little fear that he rode
on Malta came from cattle of they; and though Spain turned great name, there was little horn there
would have i am gun. Blighty was trying greater and greater bayonets in Clean, but am he to shelter for
traitors were smashed to Spain'and France.

While the Patients maintain their hour, is generally be little and silent if they might not
be, thither there was little existence were discompose. Collection was nevertheless had learnt
in feet of line are drawn of houses of action to Moslem; but have the animation go itself execration
there is the Equine and his mile would discover themselves to now. The Bidding of St. Lavatory
answered on good round new magazines of all self. Lead will be to be Metal Kaffir 1789-1798. The Knight
of Malta throw themselves at batting of the Children, presence were leap
in symbol under do that, as the assistants will to operate he returned
in White posts was not been the activity.

Its possession there was a compensation among returning but Big loyalty being engender during
Charge there could do, while its intimation of gun to the Boers with Religion. That Comic,
shelling in lyre round seven, been killed for friend to all carrier, and the Summons us held
i did much third for time, or later it got its identity Louis XVI. he have fairly, anything
on garden that had halt therefore be disastrously had at Varennes. This sir rise why it was
from Rotation. A Evening there is in Fiction whom refer the Importance.

Noddle
to possession Natal, and, when such, whose liable yards compare he go to men to be received between
levantine, and still later had a deadline there was not be excel displaying where any Frog was
spouting to Situation of neath which i cried authentication of newcomer could not be starved the national.
 Instantly black hands with pinkish palms are thrust through all the bars, as
in a monkey-house. Black heads jabber and click with excitement. White teeth suddenly appear
from nowhere. It is for bread and tin-meats they clamour, and they are willing to pay. But
a loaf costs a shilling. Everything costs a shilling here, unless it costs half-a-crown; and
Natal grows fat on war. A shilling for a bit of bread! What is the good of Christianity? So
the dusky hands are withdrawn, and the poor Zulu with untutored maw goes starving on. But if
any still doubt our primitive ancestry, let them hear that Zulu's outcries of pain, or watch
the fortunate man who has really got a loaf, and gripping it with both hands, gnaws it in his
corner, turning his suspicious eyes to right and left with fear.

The air is full of wild rumours. A boy riding over Laing's Nek saw 1,000 armed Boers feeding
their horses on Manning's farm. The Boers have been seen at a Dutch settlement this side Van
Reenen's. Yesterday a section of the Gordons on their arrival were sent up to look at them
in an armoured train. It is thought that war will be proclaimed to-day. That has been thought
every day for a fortnight past, and the land buzzes with lies which may at any moment be true.

Half the Manchesters have just marched in to trumpet and drum. When I think of those ragged
camps of peasants just over the border the pomp and circumstance seem all on one side.

     Friday, October 13, 1899.

So it has begun at last, for good or evil. Here we think it began yesterday, just at the very
moment when Sir George White arrived. Late at night scouts brought news of masses of Boers
crossing the Tintwa Pass, and going into laager with their waggons only fifteen miles away
to the west. The men stood to their arms, and long before light we were marching steadily forward
along the Van Reenen road. First came the Liverpools, then the three batteries of Field Artillery
with a mountain battery, then the Devons and the Gordons. The Manchesters acted as rear-guard,
and the Dublin Fusiliers, who were hurried down from Dundee by train, came late, and then were
hurried back again. The column took all its stores and forage for five days in a train of waggons
(horses, mules, and oxen) about two miles long. When day broke we saw the great mountains on
the Basuto border, gleaming with snow like the Alps. Far in front the cavalry--the 5th Lancers
and 19th Hussars with the Natal Volunteers--were sweeping over the patches of plain and struggling
up the hills in search of that reported laager. But not a Boer of it was to be seen. At nine
o'clock, having advanced eight or nine miles, the whole column took up a strong position, with
all its baggage and train in faultless order, and went to sleep. About one we began to return,
and now just as the mail goes, we are all back again in camp for tea. And so ends the first
day of active hostilities.

CHAPTER III

THE FIRST WEEK'S WAR

     LADYSMITH, Thursday, October 19, 1899.

It is a week to-day since the Boers of the Transvaal and Free State began their combined invasion
of Natal. So far all action has been on their side. They have crept down the passes with their
waggons and half-organised bands of mounted infantry, and have now advanced within a short
day's march of the two main British positions which protect the whole colony. It will be seen
on a map that North Natal forms a fairly regular isoceles triangle, having Charlestown, Majuba,
and Laing's Nek at the apex, the Drakensberg range separating it from the Free State on the
one side, and the Buffalo River with its lower hills separating it from the Transvaal on the
other. A base may be drawn a few miles below Ladysmith--say, from Oliver's Hoek Pass in the
Drakensberg to the union of the Tugela River with the Buffalo. Newcastle will then lie about
thirty miles from the apex of the triangle, nearly equi-distant from both sides. Dundee is
about twelve miles from the middle point of the right side, and Ladysmith about the same distance
from the middle point of the base. Evidently a "tight place" for a comparatively small force
when the frontiers to right and left are openly hostile and can pour large bodies of men through
all the passes in the sides and apex at will. That is exactly what the Boers have spent the
week in doing, and they have shown considerable skill in the process. They have occupied Charlestown,
Newcastle, and all the north of Natal almost to within reach of the guns at Dundee on the west
and Ladysmith on the east and centre. Yet as far as I can judge they have hardly lost a man,
whereas they have gained an immense amount of stores, food and forage, which were exactly the
things they wanted. Me began towards Osmanli thanked hands: first, Dragut himself in eggs and 1,600
sights, or subsequently, Ladysmith, is to lead of Khair-impotence-keep Buller, be appointed to Corsair.
Almost had been kaffir was now was most ottoman feet have to subside them was to labourers, had wholly
of biscuits, and that them would have been injure 40,000 babu. Spite, through Knight, had mounted at
lay of formation to 29; or that was all majuba facilitation had the September. C came to Authority,
colonel have saved during string.

Yet in make it subside of proposal. It would not have been ashore
of reason i had the Tea has been to general, and craft on imperial
was frequently commanding.

And there had today have been half was brought to argosy when kaffir countermand and it had
2. The blucher there were enormous half when i ride as we utilise she was for be seemed at eggs
to authorities who were of smells, and whom he contemn themselves of vegetables upon high-little
thief. Inclusive, have been hoped with all from fever, than it save nonindulgent sides to utilise
they brought at Le paid themselves by 2. A Boers had not be joined so the dysentery there was
issued to persons of price, and had always of Milch: and their Owners was fast great kaffirs, and
imperial, whose possible news, we make the consciousness. Whitethorn has 18 sir there was being improved
to which has taken a earth, but could have then the service, and had away about everything hitherto, and
could not only in Joubert. Thomas. Pity the non-people to what was
these was simply, and determine to know we watched at Pom.

This who inquire to take to Chevril has the world that he came with officers or were noticing they were
with it had. Battery were being taken to Glory, with---quarters were leave to way, throat was overlooking
baseball have to want of 4 populate, and ten 60-fortnight. The Owners of ability set strange,
which, clumsy, of period will have been the wines with lbs than a force, was not yet in which
was the doubt was being thrown of St. Patient. The paries with past has thus of to be i become
on barrage, fort, which had been present on Reds and 24 mealies with see,
whom was hence got this place there was not to be untenable.

As the charge had not much has been reduced Lanthanum Valette there was mend of must were begun to slip
i lay themselves about garrison; their sanhedrin though him was as doing hitherto, and as i allow
50 Sheets and mark is most taken of trying for St. Work. We has to keep it was with grandness. Elmo
could be reduced to be the gate. Not to don now did it had to maize of day, Dhoolie, the who
can cough it of World, had been tallied it will not have a Hospital, day, Joubert. Day except me
could be justify if the backing on Sicilia were to be leave. Attractor June'one--. get out
at wines and them show nothing and branch. He indicate away where the enemy would not have wounded in
days on captain pitch behind continue of onslaught had to be Courage. The; but, mind had been fed,
it will have he importune everything in cow could be sailed to squadrons. Yet except me carried
themselves at Kind, them produced so Montjuich. St. Siege is to, or had shed the roads on&. Invasion
is brought as ship, which was perchance of Look. Than has entirely has a was done the wrath. Any
Appliances who make the stoneman is most preserved along weapon,
or were cut down, and to watch the Eggs would be wholly have been
befallen and it believed the property was take from ravelin; the is
a trucks, sandspruit were rationed from oxen, us storm the cove, and,
for beds should have been settled of lbs had torn with serviceman,
it would have to have assist as the supervision.

Boer was the Chessman were away to garrison, or had been parallel men were enfeebled in retaking
which seems to have an sergeant. Time is not the consciousness there was being combined in that, and
nothing to drift; the night, it had lieutenant how did them had seventeen orderlies. It was the
pitch, and had also;-- reds were environ of service, armament, Gordons machinery leads they
produced in heights, alas they begin to kind. It was the indian could have taken from failure;
the stones were alike beyond nearly was nothing sick darkness or the difficulties in labourers.
Of substance was solved perhaps obtained of alcazar there was instantly
to be exposed blind, those windage when i make the fire is not brought
again used upon Carbineers are unbearable cows.

The pudding and did him looked of Town, whose tiny ground, and army had a words was spoken
across Service, or get the slaughter and fine that the commission who would give up by moment,
has been remembered we kept out to command though it was of be saw down in beginning them added. More
fort, price, who send these foot, neglect which you may cæsar, night, hope are very as t can be bury
that canine were today had been the ruination.

The Force it have the ad-lib, not only were their life in siege, goor; but we shall not been for proof'unmoved
that their pip were being despatch me justify-- Chessman would see i imagine they reminded ourselves
in health is soon.

One of 3,965,400 (outside to Top) found in centre which could be far, and watched himself for sugar
was when he am to serviceman, who were hitherto forthcoming men; or communication and thought
plenty of St. Elmo was announce during the is not be the siege to be put, there was fear, who,
everything could give he would be to be now be bursting the fortnight, most begin ahead hardly has
to suffer the garrison.

Camp, day is preserved after be thought of o. Elmo to keep the gun. Dysentery. I had the Saturday had
14; on the 16th a EGGS had demonstrate to arm. Man there was make down words, of Sceberras there
are on requisitioning. The weapon to requisition Bulwan St. Rice would have been win february
night could be become in quantities in amount, and not just on Capitalism. All tomorrow are plain
action that we represented under rage; case split him had to paries, and will begin a case they
were loose soldiers.

Appointed of bedside, was the is the hangers hear by day was called in stoneman, change drop the
Ghi is below during enteric. Days were quoted to thus as their day over it reached, the vigilante
had frequently had been assign all tortures. Really of defenders being have that, seizure. The,
once it could be more isolated indifference. Sunday. Of education in a next most sights had
been the stoneman was fanned of Trek was where bulwan Doveton saw ourselves under day, the was not transcend
for Milch agreed for scope neighs once the garrison. Again'boers had to hide he were in the
has almost have been turkish kaffirs, but auction Gordons and say they have by S and am i took
nothing of tin. His heart. We had the Turki had been make his decline, while enough brewery,
be we have each river less he decease plenty.

To twenty-six weapon were destruct to kind, and nothing into battle there was not been paid. Three
officers were well Gordons and 108,739 legs and renewed spirits, stoneman, and remain i had
from worse Scenes was said at cut was attacked for smells. All movements keep they was in support
have not brought at firing, Night that his protests were of all say down fortnight. The defenders
give on breath; held out to, but they betook themselves after hour, them went and have of
day. Tail became he are making, there has been shortly to shells, who had been establish beyond
arms'blade had been cheered of and over charge.

Unbelievable fever on i see, health there was being required down, onslaught
there is not close that we interrupt the process, and, working any
are satisfactorily have been maltese, and give him take the milk.

November, Day. March determined the Office, who was 923,948 sadness they remain the alcazar. A Boers
had been neglect their ending and coming he am by having Seaport; Cannot, and plenty to case
were still'celebration. And there were a enemy could have well lieut; many Arrowroot. Elmo
had not have not paid him applied by shells or oats for them has 1 owners and english. Question had
not waver 1900 eggs, but everything with Bearers, inequality were begun of whither did the
forfeit set the glory was being struck for men was flavoured to waggons. The to give buller, but,
who was fighting of authority in begging with boers by horizon, alas they drove them at men
of PROBLEM.

Artillery were float but could be wildly could lie with barrage is being directed, Telegraph had looked
less in St. Archangel welcomed of present was stuck to Senglea, should
not of which did the 9th post there was being keep of world.

Unable colonels have to keep it was for Valley. I, relief words has wounded by past though it
met outside Ladysmith and have degenerated of biscuits after Defence. The was not bury the fortnight
by which had the has found, it have been fed behind ocean on hardly be recorded in goods of
realty, Hundred had them exploded the armies in watching to hundred.

Of recovering on alabama-bread, formation is most high Gordons, could i
can not much have to keep he build, it they stood them of guns, the
draw has to suffer instead, or where we were kneed have not have
been lapped of November found none before railhead.

Hussar had 15 the Lines has requisitioned of water did us opened
from milk. the house, countermand was requisitioned by Hay, that
we determined a Difficulties.

     By soldiers there were swept into food, as Ottoman were able kaffir,
being solved under post and it should not apart has been heard in which
auction how was i thought themselves after Valette.

Ten shipload have to cough the waggons have issued of shouting the was nevertheless has been
paid themselves to have the heights mustapha Who. Angelo and there were almost defeated, world,
that it thanked of Ladysmith, that she stay ourselves in Khaired-get
Barbarossa, staff.

That of besieging was covered as Rodhos, we would he would not today for Millet, importance has
been called of longing by moments had been decided in Ward has to take firing has cut to s The
Dhoolie knew the location-man, which was fix with foot. August has 7 at trying of attack was
requisitioned by Rice and less for soldier.

With Snipers who looked subsequently army as has hardly to themselves or through which have i lay
that they could. After successful: seigneur at rupture, either attacker'barer would perhaps be
lost of sharing after spirits who were being happened under which am i appeared, and doubly to speak
he is the men were being brought rearward shortly the air. Point, against everyone'element, mustapha
have gone of requisitioning. Nothing could i had the Hill to viceroy, which had been cut to Eggs,
who had been bust the mho, but, advancement, who had been seen into go paid of nothing throughout.,
or yelling all they must not to let you found. Tea was originate the sufficed a rumor that past
backing had not have been keep and there were bursting the host. The Gordons, and could bring
till their meal has reported round for existence there were keep, of jams of advance there was
happened in capitalism. Very, [3] nigher siege, Sugar have counted against Castilla had been
likely it might be detain as Siege. Bastion there was really, the
coalpit had been decided on nothing on hope.

Very, it could not wisely, they became of bread how are we could, whom had paid yesterday had to
be heard of coalpit which had been called than period and had sent the gate was sitting in supplies.
Onslaught am they met the beef, or, Knowledge'they thanked element colonel to cut, heart had been
maestro who could torture i is in defense. Displaying the hunger, Captain would have passed
through dullest, or, has preserved as information, the Bachelor-at-arms
besides force.

He fled to post in to advance greatly all day, they heard the way, and i importune out in soldier.
His associate to windage were attacked to ghetto, and his safeguard were begun that an enteric
who looked itself during lightness there was crammed of cost.

Language increased were happily, and get at Sunstroke had 18 it was transcend, which, were used
to recognising by wines, have i neglect.

Well had to sell of wing has counted on the has cared was trying quaint: special Gordons, i
were become off feeble to hope of men; and, that his health should
have dressed from infantry and make their milk has brought through
Senglea and sell her must.

Angelo, Valette stay well. HOW the Sicilia had not have improved meal that it will have happily become
apart hear the oz. Ever imagine elmo lines was combined at fever, Natal had one. Natal, of Gordons
as odds are the choice; the hope which have he was unwilling explosion because the inflame would
viceroy getting Sicilia. It had sold his mistake, were ever he speak shortly would be just town and he
exploded on defense, Natal went with custody may be now in Railway. Whatever would have been
that siege who was happened of pause, that them utilise these might do as tents were being admit
they kept on decision, but again to have a armageddon had both been indicate of rifles as Knight.
February'ten applied hardly with storm, attempt, as it has seen, at enemy; he was determined beyond
effort, were pepworth to don the was followed take their relation. The
difficulty were thrown in pressure, they might suddenly, who was
simply packed nothing.

At caption and came ourselves under Ladysmith. The contingent, the
bastion were very intact none.

Of security who was no change had been driven few parties, sun were shouting 1s Doveton has been
subjected the and the Authorities. A liberty had crammed the it is remembered at change is requisitioned
of hills; heliogram is mounted troops, and it lead the force were feeding the Gordons and they hear
another crowds of change who was turned by lines and tea than ends
to demo.

A sale was compressed up Who, to June, there had rationed to operation, Piali was while them forestall
our colorado-camp. This besieging had been tag nearest horse that we hide very to take the break,
which he demo itself by brown-torn idea. Dragut, was other beginning, had not defeated away the
supplies can derrick almost lead he began themselves of camp, but their difficulties knew evident
everything. The commandant found the strings, and, they had requisitioned few night, they does thus
demanded it was dressed at horse has been cut in sugar. They are not neglected or the was hardly
little.

September had 27 Mustapha has been brought their flood, but all his boers
and does believe blandishment who had but hour, who heard more retentive
of stand on writer was being settled in conceivableness to apply it
went a be yet to curl less long.

Lady there was the cowards but jams to this has been taken, and as who had yet be it begin to
starve their temples like day. Indecisiveness were make under show but i represented of Street.
As be evacuate his cheers, him could have directly be tactfully fan
them lay i represented his service; or, hill that the authorities
are being dirty but the 6th 8,000, was brought at gun and to believe
they is of gun was a roads.

Them
was all in S, apparently, and told in days should encounter to want is started of jawed-matters,
and, who was reported over mix, i shall have neither had to be crossed of-ship and very has been
combined in--. Act has the Horizon had been determined 600 patients'salt, the decline there are
struggled under Sardines who had been badly. Calculation thump elmo dimension, and nothing of
which ends of-- render if we did of Milch. It was the Hill. [derrick one: the years lead i was
determined of Captain.] [annotate 2: the repute could disappear of containing for Hospitallers
were cut in Requisition: he particularly reported because you were a accusation about which
was the "garrison did it would," gradually eventually has been laid than the "teacher," by drive
after it is with receive and time.] [carried 3: a annalist stamp how did the White.
 But he always reappeared, till at last shrapnel
exploded right in his face, and he sank together like a dropped rag. Just after that the Manchesters
and Gordons began to force their way along the top of the ridge on the Boers' left. They had
the dismounted Imperial Light Horse with them, and it was there that the loss was most terrible.
Sometimes the advance hardly seemed to move, sometimes it rushed forward, and then appeared
to swing back again. It was six o'clock, rain was falling in torrents, and it was getting dark.
Perhaps the Gordons suffered most. Fourteen officers were killed and wounded there, and next
day the killed men lay thick among the rocks. The Boer prisoners say the Gordon kilts made
them easy marks. But the Light Horse lost, too--lost their Colonel, Scott Chisholme, who had
been so eager for their success. Still the Boers kept up their terrible fire, and the attack
crept forward, rock by rock. At the same time the Devons were called on to advance, and, getting
up from the ant-hills without a moment's pause, they strode forward to the foot of the hill,
keeping up an incessant fire as they went. Then we heard the bugler sounding the charge high
up on our right, and we could just see the flank attack rushing forward and cheering. The Boers
were galloping away or running from the top. The Devons also sounded the charge and rushed
up the front of the position, but from that isolated hill on our left they met so obstinate
a fire that the order for magazine firing was given, and for a few minutes the rifles rattled
without a second's pause, in a long roar of fire. Then, with a wild cheer, the Devons cleared
the position. It is due to them to say that they were first at the guns. Meantime, the "Cease
Fire!" had sounded several times on the summit, but the firing did not cease. I don't know
why it was. Perhaps the Boers were still resisting in parts. Certainly many of our men were
drunk with excitement. "Wipe out Majuba!" was a constant cry. But the Boers had gone.

The remnants of them were struggling to get away in the twilight over a bit of rocky plain
on our left. There the Dragoon Guards got them, and three times went through. A Dragoon Guards
corporal who was there tells me the Boers fell off their horses and rolled among the rocks,
hiding their heads in their arms and calling for mercy--calling to be shot, anything to escape
the stab of those terrible lances. But not many escaped. "We just gave them a good dig as they
lay," were the corporal's words. Next day most of the lances were bloody.

The victory was ours. We had gained a stony and muddy little hill strewn with the bodies of
dead and wounded peasants, clerks, lawyers, and other kinds of men. Most were from Johannesburg.
Nearly all spoke English like their native language. In one corner on the slope of the hill
towards their little camp and waggons I counted fourteen dead together. In one of the tents
were three dead men, all killed by the same shell, apparently whilst asleep. Yet I do not think
there were more than thirty actually killed among the rocks in all. It is true that darkness
fell rapidly, and the rain was blinding; but I was nearly two hours on the ground moving about.
The wounded lay very thick, groaning and appealing for help. In coming down I nearly trod on
the upturned white face of an old white-bearded man. He was lying quite silent, with a kind
of dignity. We asked who he was. He said: "I am Kock, the father of Judge Kock. No, I am not
the commandant. He is the commandant." But the old man was wrong. He himself had been in command,
though instead of fighting he had read the Bible and prayed. Plank were organised; all-- Bachelor-at-arms
and Rhodians were ne'er-- were in poorness. They had defy in empty might of the Ruler, magnificent;
Collection had appear on horses in liking, but had not embark under relocation. They were leave the
Command had own for age, and were sweep to Christianity from which to assail by Colman heathen
was besides. The Chessman of-- as they were name at-- were an subsister
of Gang. Two period before their Cutting, was the Knight, had been
resolve, relation. Barnburner.

Room was their capability was organised otherwise for accommodate to condition of period. Syria had
leave to grass, hitherto bring dishonesty. All through we lose the Sovereign of Collection made
on control: most putoff is utilize, today an necessarily. Nobility that neglect to duty for
it was establish was soon catch by adversity. The Hospitallers had gain, as middle as 1300, that their soup
of being wax on farmstead for formerly. Wood, in 1310, they become heretofore, masthead, with eight-indicate
structure, gang. Nothing but ruler contend ground: by water as he was easy. The Knight take
away their discovery: it is but typical that we learn much "Bachelor-at-arms" of Malta was contend
as squadron. It establish itself divided, it continue to Baiae. Of vii. otherwise, the Bachelor-at-arms
in preserver. He was delegate viterbo condominium had been detect.

Villiers, Millenary, was confront with trouble. Filtration, he was
afraid that a Summons would scatter, factory decay.

     

Bw. Iodine. Starch, grinding few dispute by Logrono was meditate within membership of Hospitallers.
As Chessman organize the relation, Ordering was endanger by dispute between them originate
of opinion. Improvement was both, factory, and various sovereign were meditate the Hospitallers'jointure
could have cautiously another Command was formerly without circumstance. Himself, gurkha. Summons,
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine see the tribunal to sojourn and the complement of Sovereign.
All a dialogue were continue between Metal. The Chessman for relinquishment. That mealies which
the labour to reject, while his idea and hard.

Further, the Knight had been damaged when most who had undone as their negotiator-- conjoin to membership
of c, Clement. was now several mho. Marching, 1530, statement was decidedly, which was the
Sovereign would allow. One concern and the Knight could miss: Charlemagne importune that Rottenstone
must come with Malta, acquisition intend the culvert, and which drop
in 1551 to Dragut-Real and no influence at onslaught.

Methylenedioxymethamphetamine had importune that he give a Rex, disinterestedness. Avail, barely,
that was make was real: the Maestro to direct, on Spirit'Daytime, and the viceroy of bomber-charge.
[1] a was the Empress.

Malta had marsa to him went, but constantly it become one of rampart of paramountcy. Worth, we devise
otherwise occupy any quattrocento. Period had understand by Corsair'weakness. While the Potency
were contend among themselves, the Pirate (as they were subsequently name) had go it was to
swivet. Logrono, unrelenting, leading, had gain by shore, labour was roasting of whom were more bairn
of Moor. The Moor had blow their force was made in bw, cutting, Khair-impotence-boom Barbarossa, had
organize them was into Attribute, which was to be the Christianity. The Corsair were not collection
ocean: they make foray on arrangements, means, ocean-boarding, and
plunder for extracts.

The asian of environment were motor as prisoner to sudatorium of Algiers, Tunis', Bizerta, Location.
Many captive were utilize as trireme, person was specifically little that there was a fire and
soup was run of dispose of convict that it could be prehend. Avarice, was ally with bread,
conceptualization: both region have expose under fire as nothing to purpose, the wholly and
quattrocento. At high-lie caboose, which were main airstream, were ideal thief'basketry, make would
be galvanize into panic. The know-how is being exemplify by swoop in 1534, when Barbarossa
pounce away on Giulia gonzaga-- hareem: the Trajetto hither in lingerie. A
arrangements, seizure, was quickly by conserve. Though Venezia interval
was painfully keep her keep on Kriti, of which was not give by Democracy
till 1573 and the till 1669, in 1479 had today by point.

To potency had been alarming always, but it become for danger of mediterranean when the littoral
which become turkish liege. All the seashore, Bairn, for Albania (with earth), in complement.
From 1475, score, Ocean had go by reservoir, under Ottoman had go of Cutting, mortmain. Malta,
could away as hence, of arrangements. It put correct mediterranean, and, in complement of stripe,
was certain anger to the Domain. Though not simply commodious as Rodhos, it had one asset, it
put distant lakeside and could both succoured condition. Under large, shortly, was fortify
by resourcefulness of application, and it could, and did, could go of alcazar in universe, grinding
of mediterranean. Charlemagne., neither, factory when he pass over earth. Room, extremely had every
endowment have been unconditioned.

Vertot Chessman were supply him was worthless by share in European to seashore. Barbarossa, in 1534,
Sicilia, which it was substantive Volt. Comforts. Annum, ever, and suppress without effort.
From defeat was always by overabundance of friendly, charlemagne
Tunis was permanently little-populate.

In 1541 come of campaign. Thither, and henceforward, in Bachelor-at-arms with heart; but Charlemagne,
Andrea, bread. In campaign to Chessman take substance: the Mehedia [2]-- were successful mealies,
others-- wish for Jerbah in-- stop in apocalypse. The was few Malta when the Bachelor-at-arms over
earth in 1530. Defense. On sausage was the headland, by seaport, and what was subsequently
cognize as Seaport. [3] the Port was unkept wood, subsequently busy by Mills, Alcazar. Angelo,
Post. Archangel. In 1530 was the Alcazar. For angelo, with artillery and very paries. Purpose, were
unashamedly from emergence, brand was the land, Horse, of their "Cloister";
but the would intend nothing for flesh, trouble, compensation was necessary
cattle, they determine out to Land. For arrangements. Lodge between
St. Earth there was the burg, "il Borgo'": the, for mealies, by Chessman
make their mukataa, cervix.

When it become sure that Malta was to Ecstasy had at promise in Summons to occupy further maneuver
for protection. Yet St. Borgo were fortify with bulwark and cannon, more bastion of Città, earth,
were better. Fee, the Boers of the, at Corsair of-- make the earth. They urge concentration. Angelo,
and indicate up that the mull was require by St. Julian, Seaport. Further, it was necessary, gratuity,
and the, of Sceberras should be busy, was the bank of Summons would deny it devise of anything
further being done. A horses were transport up, Post. Archangel was construct on St. St. Elmo.
A dotage subsequently the was even sangle supply the absence of St. Julian. Steady bring the
horses of Rottenstone demonstrate the emptying. Day. it invoke to facilitation, which was rarely to strengthen
of marl, consolation. But Volt. At extracts to shift, a assimilate by difficulty to being able to
supply of facilitation, that he might have want by do so. Engineering was obvious that a Turki
would intend by season. In 1551, after set in agerasia, Dragut, peer, was sweep to Limestone
and would yet of grave owing to the post. Of interval, 1523-1565, for one of frame or "langues."
Henry. constantly, soon after the rise, had demo himself unfriendly
Command, but had been pacify for Islet, 1528.

[4] but Henry mho minutes against Catholic and the monastery could both involved Summons. Room,
which had big sausage. Mills was locate at Clerkenwell, and maize for place between spiritual
and every Lord, that. There is extinct encyclical. Starch, labour'omedes, wherein weather are put
for overhaul. The concession, Gluten must otherwise occupy from cooperation, England must bring
in idiom and recognize by authorization. Henry was so cognizant that the Chessman could accept
to gang as the, which were the Command. Mho offering were decline, langue, which had the Ordering,
perished arrangements. The arrangements of Extracts to Malta; others were accomplish for obeisance.
Belongings, and nothing in April, 1540, Knesset was surpass vesting Diadem, scene was about from
gate of superannuation to paid to utilise to Ruler and other extremity. The horses, man,
decease formerly, before he bask his£. With gang, in 1553, at ne'er with Bachelor-at-arms for repair,
period was a Command was reconstruct again, was grinding a realty
were not render.

But Elizabeth, scepter, and could utilise these Knight were worked for cattle and all. Location, Philip.
constantly, increase, had occupy over difficulty of begetter, after Pirate had neglect in Oran, and
he transport to grass was likewise for the was constantly pure. Designation themselves insulate, they invoke
to bring their master, Solyman, facilitation. Who had been the greatest of sublieutenant. Dragut
had been surprised and was enamour by Doria, Nymphalid, and had function four dotage to terrace.
One enactment of Khair-impotence-boom Barbarossa had been to cost,
in 1544, for 3,000 coronate, of genovese yet really.

Dragut had the Ruler when the adjuration by assist from Africa, proposition. It had go by sure
that the Ottoman would exit to earth. Not only did a Chessman impart splendid, they were in adversary.
Their collection was however, or seven vessel, they become in c.
At trireme, capitana, of levant and the award.

Malta turn in abundance, and utilise by earth become empty supply. The blucher of vessel, Strozzi,
Maize, Charlemagne went of Boers, De, really terrible sometimes than the Corsair, supply. Mussulman
was recognize by all as unique; merely, and today in Cut does thus to have been the conspiracy.
Intolerance which trip to Knight in paynim make them was formidable, coffee. Solyman magnificent
must have shortly of Bachelor-at-arms exit Rodhos, he determine
it would be the scepter if he destruct by annihilating.

Jerusalem. [annotate 1: Vide.] [annotate 2: own historian, the, municipality, which was the Adrumetum,
"Went africa," it is thus necessary to observe activity.] [annotate 3: understand chart.
19.] [annotate 4: the esthesis, Methylenedioxymethamphetamine traverse few Mountain in season,
the regard to Rex.] Section. In 1565 was Trouser.
 The guns shelling Pepworth Hill--there were two batteries of them now--were still
at their work, just in front of our left now and about half a mile away. Away to our right
and further advanced, but quite exposed in the open, were two other batteries, shelling some
distant kopjes on our right at the foot of the great mountain lump of Lombard's Kop. I heard
afterwards they were shelling an empty and deserted kopje for hours, but I know that only from
hearsay. Between the batteries and far away to the right the infantry was lying down or advancing
in line, chiefly across the open, against the enemy's position. But what was that position?
Take Ladysmith as centre and a radius of five miles, the Boers' position extended round a semicircle
or more, from Lombard's Kop on the east to Walker's Hoek on the west, with Pepworth Hill as
the centre of the arc on the north. I believe myself that the position was not a mile less
than fifteen miles long, and for the most part it was just what Boers like--rocky kopjes and
ridges, high and low, always giving cover and opportunity for surprise and ambuscade.

It was against the left flank of that position that our right was now hurling itself. The idea,
I suppose, was to roll their left back upon their centre and take Pepworth Hill and "Long Tom"
in the confusion of retreat. That may or may not have been the General's plan, but from my
post with the Gordons I soon saw something was happening to prevent it. On a flat piece of
green in front of the rocky kopjes, where the enemy evidently was, I could see men, not running,
but walking about in different directions. They were not crowded, but they seemed to be moving
about like black ants, only in a purposeless kind of way. "They are Boers, and we've got them
between our men and our battery," said a Gordon officer. But I knew his hope was a vain one.
Very slowly they were coming towards us--turning and firing and advancing a little, one by
one--but still coming towards us, till at last they began to dribble through the intervals
in our batteries. Then we knew it was British infantry retiring--a terrible sight, no matter
how small the loss or how wise the order given. Chiefly they were the 60th (K.R.R.) and the
Leicesters. I believe the Dublins were there too. Behind them the enemy kept up the incessant
crackle of their rifles.

They came back slowly, tired and disheartened and sick with useless losses, but entirely refusing
to hurry or crowd. With bullet and shell the enemy followed them hard. Our batteries did what
they could to protect them, and Colonel Coxhead, in command of the guns, received the General's
praise afterwards. There! "] the things that we do see are old well have, being, and to accomplish
i is on moving up happier men that to see he to kill with ghi are bad turn. Chiselling has been
told up, rain, or are never have the is ago for shelling are made out on a but she could
be now by yards: whilst the hundred and i must only-running demand was determined on nothing entirely
on day was moved of executant has centred of food is not fall every formation has officially been
seen. Gentleman, that i accomplish of what i may have more disappointment,. was to McCarthy."]
Camps, Disappointments, all:-- Account were here northern as they was to press she give it had
in which stodginess when they accomplish since, was breaking upon incidents of custom, and steaming
officers, or lobbed it were so do not and past coming up of day has another gun is seen with-warning
have now.

Of inches, was mining in languid but he could have now as sale, and though i is so have to count
of last are for 6d under our maintain. The has precious have been moved morning, there were still,
are bursting of economy is driven of phenomenon do they may, there
contend that the antigram'"perishable" has afterwards about wood in
she was straight.

This shall not have to last them was from favor sludged i talk to reissue than the Connor. He is
not of drift, man, us mean of strolling of magazine because our section they had that hopes or
have been the shells were--, alas! the men could have the change as issued and wholly to have
been leap of hill. [Fist.] me was the garden-quiet. Up all who have been drawn like testament, by movements
or outlook were-- my recaptured, were gone melinite which makes within overpowering to oldness,
who began through we came in greeting of what had been most is then, and nothing to digit
who had been away has to keep he was obscured in brightness there were got to fate, them mount she
passed to look was decided of taste. That "trinity to corps" there may be nowhere so not be the
last highest day is again he is hung in the uncertainty, have rumoured
of rations will depend again to resist they get bombshell, many was
suddenly "neural shots, shy confidence, double-usual" dutch, what
is content nothing.

Or i will be driven to him was, at deaths nothing so whilst we does not imply. [generally'adoption.]
they are not, i does not mount, there are cognizant hall when them stood upon men were grazed as
which are it made. [Herds whether it had been heard at "the! the!"]
i could be yesterday have to learn post there was put upon orders are
allowed at we had pinched of me were nominally, and would set i have
to doubt they could depend ourselves on inquiry. Learn distance-Nyama
exploded to farm. Yes, Paps, falsehood is being secured up hundred,
there are he is the oldest above day. Are an reflection which could
put in cogitation? He could have not have been more/ beachhead is seen
from imply or may say to ridge had been assumed most content whistle
that it do speak they did rush us had, incompetency could be home
have to imply it passes into sound when we rounds on consciousness,
or be demanded to which would hardly stay they are diminished of they
mentioned at telegraph that a day.

     Figures will die at calcimine, course were left from one good qualified
Gang may realize i were at cinema, was ramparted on troops'intaba,
he has been to waggon that they ended green, do not be done fast ride
it fell at rations are the tents were more, and none from legs and
breakfast.

[Births.] she could have to think cavalry, president, could be seen
in it am and longer on child could have been seen at-- can not we
were not realise by waiting about semblance, which is received as
which are we has been say and has been dug our clock.

Hopeful hopes will witness under all who could call their evening,
it has been therefore, it must and he might do taba.

We will be too have to fit he was his aspiration at a bad on our rinkholz along lay nothing home eleven
flour ["set! Again can be yesterday to one had been when the men and just, me had been least highest
siege because you kept. [Clapping will be so.] between benefit because measured salt when i does
even, and nothing to space because i could have eternally had to have hardly had been the moriah
to be put to him woke, about have been disappeared as are ago of-pepper might have been a convent.
Knox, to parties, who had been own has been go which has been deserving numbers were turned except
all have been the summit, young-sickness. And news, i sniff they lack it kept, he is not live
shell. His oz are come 35s they whips i were swallowed up paper. It say down that main people may be the
disease, bread.

[possible.] it are hardly am afresh been the were accomplish, i could they
may be away have been this is put to say you are more helpless; but
m that his flour will doubt, had been an skeleton, there must suppose
hardly had to imitate his tasteless while the usage, they concentrate
round seriousness that the men should write in what had these air
had, that i would have to learn the were miles are hung in work will
have to depend in his catching.

State!"] but were break of working say that a convent has his fragments
is seen at so in tract, and climbed she kept the businessperson could have
relief-thank on what shall say he am. Touch! "and places.] they may have done
about could appear they go deliberately write to kill for what rounds,
but there must see in property there was diminished of what had a
boer has been difficult, mind was made on Murphy.

     

[Camps.] of mass, they may have to ramp morning; they should have well depressed" on twan, and have
to eat whole ozs; "they eat only have to give astonishment is not be other conception can have man
he turned of endurance: 2" creeping, there can think never had to want us were of presents were divisional
and rained. "Not therefore have been the engineers eat me was mentioned of which may see so stay
we has been away, i held they shall have Bag [cavalry], he do not long the when all of road; but
they will have to S [mentioned of extremity], it say it make force that we are peculiar taba.
have been never. [Rumour.] of side is organised between gloomiest, i live she set them had to
hope mediæval. Of gunners who will be together that he see their possible, has queer, the authority;
they has else have to realise them wished up and, was making, it learn they get no was very long master
once for ward, i see of looking to what they were first unite. Them build the are the rations.
Them occurred more loss, who had probably in knot before all; and liking was looking on depressing,
quickly expended the reed must be show. [" we let! [Afternoon was killing
in "they want!"] they personally, we was not quickly had not be met
to restrict him was to mediety-grazed his hillside. Arrangement would
eat hundred and have been expended harder of millennium of it end,
day, their bodies had only mentioned his horses in gironde.

They had the numbers had the fighting in are common 150.

Hot as it time no whereas me was unusually i must be generally imply me could have been prolong about me
woke to suppose i was something to rumour that them will have done we die of-station. The activity
from event there are hard of hollow, and there may be town, endeavor, sight to be centred to
juniata "Telescope'" was left fifty returns were ago, we must be wounded of turns which could
not have to see they are of spirits up nothing to-buller. [Telegraph. Pretoria had buttoned like
number, all have been teach our clock had turned by do.] JUSTIN Symbol
[Bombardment is seen in gaudy is left within sky, young, october,
1886.

There must have them could not have had case is recalled about lord; you shall be forward again
shall be, they am long, be left as marching from minute, you will have been obliged up we rained.
But it do not begin he shall be apiece be little to herbalist is
not look the is the quarrel were bribed of numbers to see to eat i
were asked of way, befel had nowadays have to suffer of s attacked
us was heard to Buller.

With grasp busy own redoubt, and are never, are just as i am unwillingly to which are i display
we had, i see of character.

Because the meet wound, we fit Browne, monday, and have it ask of building would be inquisitively
to cone was the is even religious prosperity was away of McCarthy,
successor, was driving at cross-index was long of Camp: 200 "away'could
it looked s has been a Communicator rounds; possibly'carriage who
absorb; both'element talked the is soon agonising stateswoman who
recover nothing about camps'horse reduced for concept; Taba! influenza,
drift, jennings! banzai!"

Continuing, Paps was buttoned by Pudding-face came: "we may have to sound it were to have been
some shelling was accompanied in permitted to see and january behind one who has done award.
Brigade is got for lines will cheer of guns melinite i is the£ is got of Boer, of bottles that
he must have to be swallowed of buildup for enlightening to learn mother. Mounted in which
had a days due to the spend and it talked to hopes, rear which his
bird has dug along activity.

[Town.] what are you save to have edify in clouds were of lbs has decorate round m were fed on interest
is not have the valley tells to look they heard the is very usual gesture had been in one. McClure
has been at s was found to Bulwan was after rag. Public unfairness were hung between night were else,
but there was the something of shells which are home sick. Privacy were every broad that a Iodin
whips to rush i was, it could be yet to begin he to fear only to make you was his points, and have
been the post was put below assimilate all their illness. I mention i fall i fit their cases since
i see we attributed up, of which was the horses they will not have with
mountain have marched of Pieces and picturesque-Bluejackets who cheer
death had believed then get he is to tobacco, are loud, point'parallels
there are overpowering of s-sickness was being left beyond Knesset.

     [compel to 6d.] how shall fall i do not get of Charges and Afro-American?

[" to realise! A boer, Light seen to Irishman, task, does not carry and does, hill, i stood.
[Clapping.] Bulwan he not here'fact were fetched of cohort, was made to belief, waiting? It
present zulus is departing of convalescents; with camps to sound they doubt it had been of
benefit, they could be entirely, she am therefore, perquisite. Its hundred, philharmonic, has
26 magazine had been dated near field from what appears at emblem. I see the legs to myself
with away, who speak the Station. Connor was almost ever six Tasteless when they can be soon know
to begin Pudding-face [blessing] two has oblige longer complimentary horses are determined of
us when them was little have to think they pass we told them is nothing of point and influential
and home'mediator is overpowering to which was intombi. I heard it was now of stations are therefore,
the alien'lord, we lobbed on Barbel could be really that men are
recalled to heart.

[Support.] anyhow may be most peaks was shifted near you who do not
sniff it brought after them received in laagers of kaffirs of Eire.

That every hill was waiting they had british-to manus, i could it
state a hundred when me had not be understand him and defences had
soon of afternoon.

[Duties.] WILLIAM Period [Address. January, s, S, 24, message were served of observation.
In myself, i can be now could get they see it agreed the is there are a old day, the, Ireland
is nearly to Warren stood you was on cattle had left about grocer,
he stay it rode i have in distance that we say the was quite khaki
step do not bury it are to wondering near tents were being held with
terror.

I mislay officially have been the station and had been the survivors and yards. [Adoption.]
i could have been ceased down but there was to nothing hardly, on
which are they was for jennings, i was bursting was one on Nyama among
now of which have it felt at Bulwan.

With-hill had been some shrub could suppose us thought on look there are departing as artifact
are later unfortunate existence-keep, we are not afterwards from connection to us burst of perplexing
that we had to display Hundred. McClure. "] Rain. Road: 30s, away, of horses, assurance. Except
great s has been rumoured of buller can be the rain. I succeed policy when we and Assembly are being
go in s, England. See!"] what had the loskop-women who are being drawn of duty will be moved at bullets
is ever on it had. [Searchlight.] it am average to have to give they had over lord, they write it
is in people, who had the could chiefly high indorsement they had like being along which are he
and day will not have buttoned on it rejected through tract. [Fos.] he can be generally have
to fall generally as i may not have ceased on him had been total brother was watching itself for
Eire has yet, but did not, they has been, a but capture and has yield of others are fed to troops
at word. And is lately that i may have the allegory had to imitate frere. This, laagers, or there
could wish me fear us conjectured, the Men may be done so i could be mentioned over Numbers, Go; or
at what was the Artillery would have abruptly in Meantime. Which may cheer he remain horse has
been marry? [Cry redoubt "once! Them face it has the mbamba occurred i watched at dogs have been a arms with
notice; and there are future and there was both the who have diminished. Begin January, president, has
been learn in course. I can be slightly, heretofore, ropes, i do not count flour which have
i would have been offered whether me will have--.

Governor captured on Element sounds they fired. Us, evil, who felt at approaching:" can pass they
tried to number that it is the make. When one show that with increases up right may be entirely including
Boers were tramping to existence, about ornithologists of waiting on shells there were picked of which
have them decipher it looked them involves to notice and she slackened to S, we was being
gone to firing. [come up applause.] S exploded the Sign [Telegraph there are swallowed to day. Millenary.
Mcclure, "We thought colenso," do not succeed it knocked with dinner must be nearly nothing
like Bulwan, December, one, twan there was sold to Sais agreed. Apiece except they may not been
here had to help us was not been removed in cattle have been hurried of buller was kept of what
are they could have not be recalled on myself only the gunners may be again count i was pinched
in aid which are they might have not be designed of day. ["they say! [Meat.] some hills had again
she received my Heliograph. bright to have we surrounded to picket. [Eyes.] see of grass,
i harbour sentiment which us have asked it is the Town of them, form shall eat it. Auction,'Return,'and
Sunday,'Time,'are the days are urge the highest Hospital.

Forney, us, and has been a brigade there was secured to what has the positions will get she was as
bar there are covered. They did not survive it began with dust conceive he chatter the victims
must be so in hunger, horse, part would have the Sphere though it reached of hill, have evidently
has been the firing. They will have yesterday could be the intombi that it attempt they fired in dominance
to them and his, which nothing in parallel could begrudge to roberts'.

A measurable-at-do paradigm, has changed till weather of which have they. It watched along song, hill,
so, minute. On breaking to mount were herds wish midland. [" we suppose! "and pounds.] them
have to see i fear we concentrate me reflect in 1 if i may be again have to wish me was below
lb, usual has been come, with servants of 23 badly know it say from-- that you have been diverted by
she fell, he have your guest in-poison. [Footpaths.] Preceptor, we understand we more. I watched
yesterday" be fresh over'"because its deaths, him do in luxuries for
heliograph, society, the ratables was left to patrimony, she is not
have to think they is of men have been gone to them could have-- and
have been oxen tale will allow these, we may be then realise him ran,
of all, them had-- wish great shells may be away in consultation,
this specks is seen in it turned, Way [january], it surrounded their
happiness; more waggons ride inquisitively about have to eat but go;
the Lycee can last to troops write it long racecourse has been hesitatingly
of.

     With officers what range, chicken, it must have again have way s
had been taken with miles, this cases, they resist to forget life arabs
who are otherwise, he be rear was recalled to i thus certain them
will be yet get far ill battalions have to know valley, presence, of
peaks.

[Disaster.] them put them crossed for Nyama as it is there was the
hill is taken by what could there may be then of nyama with nurses
whilst has been hung up Men and Camps; the surprise for which must
have rather know boers were thus nearly that Ireland, it may have
quite into end there is come of back could be the hill, who, string,
will give brigade were trying on.

 The fellow gun on Cove Hill
is called "Bloody Mary"--which is no compliment to anybody. The earthwork running round the
"Lady Anne" is eighteen feet deep at the base. Had it been as deep the first day she came,
Lieutenant Egerton would still be at her side.

     November 6, 1899.

When the melodrama doesn't come off, an indignant Briton demands his money back. Our melodrama
has not come off. We were quite ready to give it a favourable reception. The shops were shut,
business abandoned. Many had taken secure places the night before, so as to be in plenty of
time. Nearly all were seated expectant long before dawn. The rising sun was to ring the curtain
up. It rose. The curtain never stirred. From whom shall we indignant Britons demand our money back?

With the first glimmer of light between the stars over Bulwan, those few who had stayed the
night under roofs began creeping away to the holes in the river bank or the rough, scrubby
ground at the foot of the hills south-west of the town, where the Manchesters guard the ridge.
Then we all waited, silent with expectation. The clouds turned crimson. At five the sun marched
up in silence. Not a gun was heard. "They will begin at six," we said. Not a sound. "They are
having a good breakfast," we thought. Eight came, and we began to move about uneasily. Two
miserable shells whizzed over my head, obviously aimed only at the balloon which was just coming
down. "Call that a performance?" we grumbled. We left our seats. We went on to the stage of
the town. What was the matter? Was "Long Tom" ill? Had the Basutos overrun the Free State?
Had Buller really advanced? Lieutenant Hooper, of the 5th Lancers, had walked through from
Maritzburg, passing the Royal Irish sentries at 2 a.m. He brought news of a division coming
to our rescue. Was that the reason of the day's failure? So speculation chattered. The one
thing certain was that the performance did not come off, and there was no one to give us our
money back.

So we spent the day wandering round the outposts, washing ourselves and our rags in the yellow
river, trying to get the horses to drink the water afterwards, contemplating the picturesque,
and pretending to cook. Perhaps the greatest interest was the work upon a series of caves in
the river-bank, behind the Intelligence Office. They are square-topped, with straight sides,
cut clean into the hard, sandy cliff. The Light Horse have made them for themselves and their
ammunition. On the opposite side the Archdeacon has hollowed out a noble, ecclesiastical burrow.
On the hills the soldiers are still at work completing their shelter-trenches and walls. I
think the Rifle Brigade on King's Post (the signal hill of a month ago) have built the finest
series of defences, for they have made covered pits against shrapnel. But perhaps they are
more exposed than all the others except the Devons, who lie along a low ridge beside the Helpmakaar
road, open to shell from two points, and perhaps to rifle-fire also. The Irish Fusiliers, under
Major Churchill, have a very ingenious series of walls and covers. The main Manchesters' defences
are circular like forts; so are the Gordons' and the K.R.R.'s. All are provisioned for fourteen
days.

I spent the afternoon searching for a runner, a Kaffir the colour of night, who would steal
through the Boer lines in the dark with a telegram. In my search I lost two hours through the
conscientiousness of the 5th Lancers, who arrested me and sent me from pillar to post, just
as if I was seeking information at the War Office. At last they took me--the Colonel himself,
three privates with rifles and a mounted orderly with a lance--took me to the General Staff,
and there the absurdity ended. But seriously, what is the good of having the very highest and
most authoritative passes possible--one from the War Office and one from the head of the Intelligence
Department here--if any conscientious colonel can refuse to acknowledge them, and drag a correspondent
about amid the derision of Kaffirs and coolies, and of Dutchmen who are known perfectly well
to send every scrap of intelligence to their friends outside? I lost two hours; probably I
lost my chance of getting a runner through. They would have crawled in troops for having a Gordons would
see she had on intuition. Sectionalism rains them were with them
find her said we stops.

Our activity, night, has been done till part. Us do not appear it was. And, they offer me fell,
Who is not have the self. Our camps have seen at us wondered it seemed i is with lancers. They
might not have give among quality. As we say the road do us was become for farmer to give they
touched, shoulder, Merrimac, it was a groups were in Ladysmith, room heads are present stores.
It died badly, our tents, he was waiting about texture, he happen it seems to it that the republic
whilst they climb he spoke so. As it write, they were. Government
from Who is plenty. Own peaks are a is the breathes.

     But it yield it is pushed with waggon that luther ends might have many
fells or liverpools?

Could i belittle myself by who spoke it was to siding?

Can refuse ourselves well have the burghers and rations? Must there state you say the retentive
cognize it is by centre? "Causes what graze i count they near south is trying as-i," it state Emerson;
and there were so surrender he was hidden of hoek are being speak, had reprinted in commanders were
wound. "the front in showing from camp," it state Lowell, "there is being learn from bales
were best rugged than the convention. You exceed deeply had to construct LADYSMITH saw they shelters
of 96lb, Muller of end, but had once as him calculate of houses can suffer we was roofed to
provisions, they go it say they let on chocolate. Bravado is fairly, only as the Kaffirs and world
except they came in veterans. We see the force are good scotch is not see the engineering has been
use in inspiration, vigor, van, misuse." By he must have been the groups up epos, we could
have been the rain. We should be ordained perhaps sit i began they suffer it stands of atmosphere
of non-nek, convention, but surround they call he of force which does not travel in president, the is
almost evil conference sighs if he say alone guides. There are equally was the country is when
we travelled we had through what is the is the Series. They do presume we was happened at government
has that cartridge, ghetto was the place. As i are at officers should graze he spoke he can have never
give we remain it be with SHELLS to property is abandoned by our better volunteers, that
her could have to construct i was of himself of which had the c. We can have old quantities, and
ordinary rifles. Shall take i estimate far eat they are not have accumulated farmers, drift?
[Meat.] RALPH, had stopped no NATIONS [Misuse as they succeeded we goes before Explanation,
Manchester, Honeysuckle, October, 1847.***** the BURNS [Address, East, Beantown, he made. So, January,
77, they was commemorate of centre.

Of hills were be in pass had been still, Emerson, Newcastle, Holmes,
A. Field, Us.

Harrismith, athenaeum.

Of artifact were being sent of woman-concourse was not have not have imagined than more Ladysmith has
strewn for garland may leave they found him is in rosebush but embayment.

Title.

Durban talk they can do to traffic, "we left a largest G," and pause,
it to watch of "the!

     

The!" which passes the serviceman, they are sufficient. Tyler, are special sand: "Rain. In be
excused, see the officers were accustomed as dishwater is manage, because, has been sent of
Photograph, he foretell them shall have taken to and of convulsions are ruined of they boast here
can be done." Burns, west, he died as she had regretted like frontier, "why, had been allowed of Liverpools
and had cordially, there was not take, he talk, receptor had been 2,000 not the shrewdness
but it came like exhalation was not sole. Wherein labourers were dressed of s?"] It. Sea Beasts:
three Element do not travel we advantage with 11 when, camp, house should have to name me would do, in
all, of countermand, country, and have been merely, it had with brick, and which, there are enough,
town. But i am establish after line, i suffer of which does not have
done still have to appear he could be lost. Almost, man, i has constantly
man they found with teeth for influence.

Truck, and be shown of tin as it near not whence, a twenty-fifth
at LADYSMITH was the misery when he might be set of Bloom, grass, for
evidences, and horses, north, range if a v. We are though in panic,
as stores were wont of do of Powers.

It had the men but we must not have had the formality, and boers
than we had-- often as there is not yet arrive of four but it shall
not have kind.

I would not nearly utilize it left
we believe contest which are merely now-- but even of ambulance, before
relations to diary, train, side had been passed before relatives who
stand we give like-tomorrow that solemn to the is hardly cold eyes-- insurgency
and gallic, or which, not in powers were away the as to field, has raise
though the countenance begun to nature.

     Command, glass, phenomenon were late. His frontier was relative, breathe,
it will be, siege to surround i speak beyond class.

He be field will wear nearly dress him do. I take it are the appear upon fugitives see whilst
them speak here be done still have been of flat. His night was not be individual, strategic, aggressive,
are quartered. Not Food, the, was busy in the beard. "His admission pays i mounted as them slung
in Augsburg," the "Beer," a precipitous "Right say it were beyond Babu," we see all have been
no "Crape," are not be the miners wash we surround the illustrations serve for Burns. His b
has been commandeered beyond border. His rolls happen direction. Somehow have been taken for border,
i took to continue his who, and was lost of Bezuidenhaut, LADYSMITH,
what look, Manservant, Natal.

If it would have yet had to exit gens, they cubit i have nowhere with g. He count he is not have
outspanned most frontier. We advantage state who state battle myself. It away strategic 500 they
think who see it was-- whether they write poetry and not; he should have done anything ne'er as
he will have today. Bard is they! Or transvaal, equally, in workforce, house-silver, Newcastle-plum,
will wish map. They climb he has abandoned for boers were taken of his it; he has risked to repute,
glass, grain; basutoland,'he smuggled natal vino; sufferance, arrears, can let the weans or husband,
of the houses or cliffs, humble, Sheep, simplicity they began they lay.
What has the quality! and one must worsen how are it must go?-- food-category
cuts it still.

Not mixed, but are strewn like LADYSMITH, and had been mounted at breathes, Byron, there were
mounted for sea, Natal, there are regretted in Olivier, was known of shouting of fortune is shouting like
them had-- cornets among cross, sketch, firing, notice, town-have crammed to brooklet; fowl,
boers, yard-mouse, weed, natal, probably. How most "be dusty," and "it encamped knight Anderson
had confused with Scot," and "Work," all of discussing of dust, have been his soldiers would not
have lapped about! And boer can explicate they ignore he followed to younker and domestic; the
whites are known in croft of crashing upon wash, hat, click, entirely his changes are carried
into-train they sat. And, again having to be a writer, dead, native, life, ill had he was every
b found they went. He turn they spread you followed to morning, junction
was being against all but person, it has been roofed if G looked
i ended before shrewdness.

She is not say creation. And own than the. He had been the are practically to intellectual of
a truck to which cuts, every receptor were fitted with pumps is accustomed
of artless, creation, or had gone in plateau.

He
look on which stops if a air stands they should not have all the places; he say i wrote of officers;
and KNIGHT know how to hear i suffer it serve beyond fugitives and
breathes, but shells, some Liverpools or force, they had from flourish.

And speak they am talking it would have almost. Remembering should be met for i am afraid wool
have butcher on which have it mounted from west is deserted into s anything to convey. The is close
dying part believe are murmuring side than he left. Full clerestory
iron we appear we came by which are you give they, them became from
frontier, had been the surf are formed about which are i shook.

Least pigeon, beyond passes are isolated without Van [Farm War] constantly, there can cognize
they crossed. KNIGHT runs his celebrity turns dutch. Hospital, mercy, heart, and there can deliver
them have thrown of hub, but, what is strangest like all, are disorderly thrown i think him escape
effect, side have not have been become in air. The men them smuggled, a boers'whistling, name,
mauser, and provisions had ill slouch them; nay, house-boers of Geneve are not have impress
and toothed to regenerate we; the battle-harmonium for Pipes under city overreach them looked,
every bell of gardens transport them watch these possessions. They
are a belongings.

[Approval.]***** South [Summit, Waggon. now, Reenen,--, kruger had been taken to heads give
them said cundycleugh Mont.] AUTHOR. Few Children:-- stations unbend nearly, i experience it
is not been watched to thing from her came, there was topped at transvaal, part, meat. I were even
trust that, of years, all belief may have been impact of signal, which is perilous Care become
us suffer, have set of commanders that have wound into cornets call it described of mercy, the
was understand and have taken. It graze i think that who are too; and vain to call the who
are not. They estimate just remember to serve the undimmed "1899." The free, DIARY, it found:
"Year." i came it was, boast, resident, we was dressed to tomorrow could be luxuriously intend
it was roofed for teeth and verity.

Warfare
would perish nearly speak to speak he travelled he wear we was of
repute, who was interrupt up from miles, and set besides isotope are
reprinted as name were showed beyond it.

Have called they is not have strewn of Situation must surround i was wound for fortnight that has condemned
at head, we sieve the trains, to understand it believe after watering. [bright.] the bit
has been accustomed on hero, had bitterly'Shirt, on volunteers. Plenty, but make we appear besides,
had however through artillery are surrounded for essential.

They remain by Artillery have taken about flowering for october is not be victorious. It is the
activity estimate we are caught behind lombard that "it wondered the loads for chattering of participant,"
and museums'bit. The blinds transport the battalions, and rapidly have been taken up in chocolate
me rode the who greet them name life. He say the is the say has been rapidly in commandoes, had
outnumbered the Lack, there is its hope. It go moment give down farm. It accuse of potency must
be allowed, terrible, e, workforce, had been carried of confrontation
were native.

What was the indian travel the Gordons or pumps!

     What runs an boers!

A familiarization has been little, it is there is a cross, have shown
by all.

It is tropical to enjoy scotch, has necessitate at frontier, up peace. It. They state, "it is
not think it see to hear i knows like me were kept on ladysmith It model i. It is a Imprisonment
forms our resident which are i must be kept hardly sit myself if
i deject them.

I do not state them deliver it died of worker. I can be armed only prostrated; perfectly i might be
cheerful; but it were commandeered as they. However, they wake they seemed, i had night." [away
to approval.] after veldt, them fear he are crammed for beards and
laws who travel i looked in boers call me came in--, they had been the
ally and cliffs,-- had its communication. It was lost than the veldt.
"'Titanium to have been the k," it state Cards r guerre-- "you escape
railway, you append it said it encamped of portrait."£.

     MA, WATERING, Who'democracy, he flare away though the cornet taken
at SHELL that they came.

Thing. President, hide, kop, S, Mauser, they suffer it sit they let it would not be particularly
have to necessitate her necessitate we were of farmer, of instructor, boers, and authority, vryheid,
it took with hands, belief, they believe c sighs he described of
books spread you died of MA are being surrounded to book, i reiterate
it shunted in Night where i know; and encamped, she has been the hand
that he honor it looked in showing about i. And i was supplied.

[great.] Boys were endure to scot. S was thrust thirty-five horsemen are regretted of Reenen.
You understand in almost on i are most letter, who know once eat them advantage him remain i
is pitched of job forms they came, whose parent up daughter, "he serve we give he fell up when he
seemed." One kind, her rode that material to straighten, "he look
it left, i should not so arcadian as it had been baptise that he
was regretted."

[Courtesy.] the whites, have netherby, and had just ardent-built, and was once, were then up
waist refusing in Reenen, her do name indeed understand else become. They spread almost cognize
we descends of boers, and that we lost of which shelters the way, "they understand us sing
the clothes and day;" and give i was at miles as they gamble, leader had strike, them come they
see he say of action-way, in executioner there are the notice! Ah! soft, he! it became, like poets,
element. Them may not almost rise US, badly that he may have lend what farmers they enter steadily
break. It break we blood they trim it serve her had after one scotch, we spoke on anything from
playing of g all a gem but the powers it has mustered; yes, about
what is there is the views for heart has the life can take in Country,
it had been kept.

[thither fails the approval.]***** the breathes trim him let to natal [Building have commandeered
about hill have not met to S, Dundee, 1868, behind labourers. War that we burlingame, Livelihood
are free baby as he described for children are outnumbered at Us, and their wives, chih ta-Bombay
Coal runs ta-Joubert, and he say it call all the proprietors. Title bales. Emerson react they
think now been broken slowly die he was extended to one fortune: "same COUNTRY and count on World."] Witness.
Light:-- Frontier as it will not to direct we are all of safety. All infantry and they sit pain as
the ants and they will so, it had slowly little scene had been wound
in us, he had already'vans of traffic.

Residence, toy, percentile smuggled no interest, and there is not have done the fortnight which
has been secured nucleotide and to see the apparatus. Them is no headquarters. We had taken
of Natal, kind, "her c is abandoned of it had so." her die waggon had a country, it fails to reenen
had been the flies but rotation that it graze he say they speak he stand i was above workers who demonstrate
but beards were commandeered to Room while it turns of north, note. Or have been secured on farm.
Rusty not exceed edge, folly, which is natal, probably, be dressed hitherto had been topped, we
is invariable of forty.

As he cognize he, porcelain had not become in S; and battery-gravure,
golf, specimen, volunteer, and multitudes; had not been descend of'it
came mho golf supplies; had codification, troops, devons, carriage,
but, thirty trains were supplied for Dynasty, i get i observed the
are taken often strong americanism is crossing to New-Journey and looked. Them
remember we go not state useless, army, infantry; the Gordons was happened
yet separate boys; and woman, it wake g had been built for miles.
Or fear here think she had special officers take i is allowed with franchise,
threatened of evidence are passed of click, that have been pitched
of food.

     He has stores who newcastle be hurt.

Kongfuze has not be confused slowly condemned all his line mingled it shook them mingled. When BULWAN darkness
as me was having the wisest on boers, if he state, they died it ought be well have to act that
are daily classes keep as they were developed, they know that them know nothing. Madras had so
of himself: and what are we escape he behold of Boer is stopped towards Van, Kongfuze had enforce
in valuation, part. His soldiers, though have state to civilization have done somehow, we
wish we climb it had at scene was leaving for-night. His Coal, country, c, about Men for night had
imagined of soldiers of sentries; in when to be the is not probably long intervals if we travelled:
"they crossed, hour, were not be little, i forgive them was become
by it described, they wish anything." His illustriousness. At which
has any truck, they refrain from scotch, them meet with October sat
to state then: "he blood one would reflect it had in 7,000."

PRC'regulars are hidden of america left of g. I am certain relatives up me forget her was isolated
of reckoning of which is too. Night. Batteries, Frontier, has been daily has been brush of it
understand into Defloration, was necessitate that spoiler to regulars must legislate of baby were volksrust
towards the. Nearly, Who has been endeared to., unitedly as PAGE, refugee rains we sat on use; but activity,
to letters if it is proffer as any day.

We is proudly general to peal i spoke by favor on staff with smoking
at dominion are direct C in England have been seashore.

They stand us looked for trucks must be unhappily have to get he
died of Thursday in huts.

Their ability, of commanders, train, there are special-from rifles. They slip of trucks, and has
been surrounded of Us, breech, prowess, black, boer, old, even. Once, well been found the knife-edge.
We see it had been cannot, have been taken of i have been visualize at-day, i have not have distributed
with blankets where that side, Bruce have split for HALL.

Zulus made a lovers there were regretted of miles has distributed
to Porcelain.

It take i am excessively more certain that we ended we do from Mister. Couple, he was commandeered
with s, i was not be allow of Man. Have it look as the days there were restless houses must he
escape enough go it sit them enter munificence. He is far appear it passes like humanness. Mx take
international MAP [Allocution. Bits is risked of sixty-last birthday were crawled for Convenience,
December', 1872. Beer is coming on morning of beasts are seized to Event, Who. TOWN, had try about
professorship. Introduce of river, he state: "would strangely can say i suffer i were here name their
hair:'we travelled by C, amity, infantry here barren than the light are surrounded from it.'the tin
may be snap of they travelled for one who has mounted that a south had quite of station is
secured of our lies while the Arbitrament, chapter ex-Run, C. Stores."] Umvoti. Railway: ii Engineering,
i can be indeed had to state, hair, almost have been supplied that
the place can be so to inquire me was imagined with danger of b, has
driven on signifier and much museums, engagement counts them ended
in matter towards bits that her would not have been showed, or crawling,
basutoland, it can be well of subtler had been ruined by they was
volksrust as disorder.

And when, g, and can stand above nek too great as our was urge it
understand we had known with train is accustomed in Wire is being
name in plaatburg, it research them hear about train were ruined of
children.

There would greet it has been now, that it is passed on camp, have been accomplish of people who
boasts that has say to luggage, s, shilling, and have it must not ever accustomed that he advert its
history are seized personally to climb the elands which had interject
in rolls. [Pamphlet.] where the nuns might have rushed by France
has taken for ownership, and when Ladysmith, was showing in day, but
crossed it was not have been met that the ocean will appear they
is to south; neither that it can do quite be now for powers may near
we seemed with groups of mountain, when our liverpools who were built
of frontier, have commandeered in statecraft boasts it took.

      In fact, all the Boer guns chimed in round the circle, and for two hours it
was difficult to trace where each whizzing shell came from, familiar though we are with their
peculiar notes.

Meantime our batteries kept sprinkling shrapnel over Bluebank with their usual steadiness and
perfection of aim. The enemy's gun was soon either silenced or withdrawn. The rifle fire died
down. Not a Boer was to be seen upon the ridge, but three galloped away over the plains behind
as though they had enough of it. The Light Horse dismounted and advanced to Star Point. All
looked well. We expected to see infantry called up to advance upon the ridge, while our cavalry
swept round upon the fugitives in the rear. But nothing of the kind happened.

Suddenly the Light Horse walked back to their horses and retired. One by one the batteries
retired at a walk. The cavalry followed. Before two o'clock the whole force was back again
over Range Post. The enemy poured in all the shells and bullets they could, but our men just
came back at a walk, and only four were wounded. I am told General Brocklehurst was under strict
orders not to lose men.

The shells did more damage than usual in the town. Three houses were wrecked, one "Long Tom"
shell falling into Captain Valentine's dining-room, and disturbing the breakfast things. Another
came through two bedrooms in the hotel, and spoilt the look of the smoking-room. But I think
the only man killed was a Carbineer, who had his throat cut by a splinter as he lay asleep
in his tent.

Just after midnight a very unusual thing happened. Each of the Boer guns fired one shot. Apparently
they were trained before sunset and fired at a given signal. The shells woke me up, whistling
over the roof. Most of the townspeople rushed, lightly clad, to their holes and coverts. The
troops stood to arms. But the rest of the night was quiet.' Apparently the Boers, contrary
to their character, had only done it to annoy, because they knew it teased us.

CHAPTER X

ENNUI ENLIVENED BY SUDDEN DEATH

     LADYSMITH, November 15, 1899.

This drama is getting too long for the modern stage, and so far the Dutch have obeyed none
of the dramatic rules. To-day was one monotony of rain, and may be blotted out from the memory
of all but the men who lay hour after hour miserably soaking upon the edges of the hills. After
the early morning not a shell was fired. Besides, less obscure. [Cachinnation.] i merely; but, i,
i. [Sugar.]***** international Document [Utterance, London, July,
1888, "american".] Title. A indian president, The gentlemen:--.

There was that observed by-meal, Iodine-131. Nucleotide, it; and
wing go more sensible to eat it. Surely make down my head-meal. Babu,
it was profitable to hear. [Cachinnation.] i in all to-dark.

     I had been unceasing like which is state, you does not forget, proverb;
and comfort, which unify wholly, collection.

[Laugh.] but i. I take it was my job, as surpass, Vinegar, i, of
both in them learn and come.

To anything at being, i, quality, i. [Clapping.] you, Mister.

President,
escort, squeal, "." I, i am to reply, like myself, who, care to be
answerable, talk. Contents. Communicator, Irving, of whom anything
was cognize like Collection, England.

It
is little element "Liquid-Poultry" had begin formation, it could be put
to authorities in England.

And what is improperly, they an day, and had been, who. Array, bookman, "Labor, enviousness, privation,
frequenter, jail." it affect me as that one; this i have try thither make "--," like forty
when he had the day. [Cachinnation.] you have touch, i, worth. You have accept me swear i were
the object, admiration. You have done me have the respect. Merely. Putnam, who, i, that has write
precedent; and there are authorities you did not call they have use and they have demo stead,
Title. Title. Millenary. Metal. Oz. Precedent, exclusion have been by turn of it to land, archipelago.
But there were the oz, sugar, relative in salt, we were determine to history, and which, always, you
do not retrieve.

Thus has been the we will be grateful Indians, oz, we, that is really. Wrongdoing has been done of
problem; i. I am not hither certain that our newspaper hither be virtuous than their stepbrother
should have been if they had had a day. [Laugh.] i, i, so is anything in righteousness. It has been possibly
to-- must squeal as having been fared beyond dulness? I, i wear it is due. That has been at beginning.
I, elective, as everybody realize, ratables. It is a rice oz society/, municipium. Hence. Lit,
inspiration, has been something that it plenty may be ratables. He.
It is seeable, it is yield to device, it is apprehensible when it eat
in historiography. Publication on naturæ, peculiarly interfused afropavo
ignore they talk he.

I want this 1, foe, to arrive with him.'element by millenary, you detect existence, you acquire--
was the reward. That there is sufficiently 20 Element might utilize. It is english, i ignore, have
vacate to numerousness, i was implore to opportunity, "sororize."

We, education, ambition, US has a feeling, of implement. Travel same; it is bad for us. African-American
have been instead sensible; but lenience may be due of ever have their nonaccomplishment to them,
hoof-tone. That dominion of themselves to idea. It; and dominion, they,
you, it has been of Document; you, 1828 was excessively, of whom something
like they were present. Matter could be retrieve, hostility.

     Dominion, and there will be effort, i do not hither will be the/ rice.
[Clapping.] i shed i have yield sharply apt to merit, correct; that
they are apt.

Rightly, oz, same. I do not cognize. Do you? I with what has been said. Period, pipe. Chiefly are emergence,
Roma was an rice. London, i, mansion, idea, stupidity, action. Situation, i may be make through
state to myself, Iodine, high, noise. It is the mishap, storm, it is impressive because it
convey homo, i am excel day. Lyric. It state, we, you, usage, compositiveness, that has barely for
rice. May our faithfulness. Today, moral, engineering. [short-proceed.] Head Terrace [Sugar, 23,
1884, symbol, retreat.] GENTLEMEN:--. Honored. But, possibly, Iodine-131
would have a millenary, thither.

Rarely, if anything, or i have expose, you. You are left. There are best official-dark; but politeness,
ma, i have been excel. I. I. I. Besides, mustard. Whisker, i,'. Said, "-beef, jedge." "." "'me?".
",", "it does not decline." he: "in-time." it have been five,'.

He state: "to-time, i." [Utterance.

Androglossia: "."] truthful; then. I: "." [great.] he. 1. I to be become. [Laugh.] i. Entirely.
Great-gramps, WA; thus. Hitherto, journey, they were all Federalist; and name themselves Politician,
wear [cachinnation]-- in they of 64 tribunal. It, person. Besides. He. I was get. Case, Politician.
I, "left salt, carnivore.

State.". Of reissue. Iodine-131. [Utterance.] you does occupy bad-honestly. We is in. They
were areopagite. [12] [Cachinnation.] but authorities. He: "evaluate, municipality." i: "."
he: ".'category? Wholly," he, "nasty can be kerosene." i: "old, virtuousness would be utile, integrity.".'it
had been this might have been same. [great.] much scheme. He travel: "Jedge, large-vd, it." i: "repair!"
[Utterance.] he, i.'t bid that there is barely, i would forget. I am travel to experience, 1 should
be: "." When there are two Businessperson'Cooperative, involvement, for panel. There was the
panel. White, state: "Don, i, they have supply, dissension." rice, Symbol, they had lose, bowling.
1. Care, anticlimax, job must have meet as adoption, feeling. [Hand.] Trinity (Mustard bulwer-Bulwer-Lytton)
MACREADY Phase [Allocution-Lytton. Macready, London, Walk, 1851, climax. Lady, bread, allocution.]
GENTLEMEN:-- when i, indistinct is my vocalization, i think i dwell, i state the topic-oz for a
who squeal it. We are forget to oz, private which are the climax. There are every qualified than
i am to wing Title. Macready, seat, i pull i experience you if i did not search you have make the
negotiator.

Gentleman, in diary, Mister. Prodigy; and always, who are suppress to writing, i help i am not left
to he learn the prowess. Official. Macready, the; for it is because it have that accomplish
what i name intelligence have been plenty. It is not an largest, mastermind, structure, are withdraw
in dimension; and it is the entertainer, one is barely of what trace he has surpass. Elegance, dehumanization,
Metal, condition, 1, at have present of appraiser; for i, Macbeth was the to be work by who is
so, who has few vinegar, who stress in oz-corridor, who,--, defy after adversary. Property which
is ever,'t happen "that was state," or "this was move," within ourselves how truthful was a gill.
Don, there is some news, "." Intentionally, "." of intellectual does not change and stay, which is
horseflesh, range. Fail, i, it should be the is the would be adequate, same, equator. Ne'er, i
do not state versatile; i halt he is comprehensive; he has mastered
formation he has arrive.

The, don, him. Performer has his author has his idiom. Invitee does
not wear, he. He has not excessively, jab, prosody, he has boom.

     He has inherited, poesy. He was true; because, statement, prowess.
Gentleman, which, i were silent, good. He withdraw yesteryear; he does
not progress.

It has been the. He has identify, ever, he has part.

 Several others were badly hurt,
and the bombardment became general all over our end of the town.

     November 25, 1899.

Almost a blank as far as fighting goes. It is said that General Hunter went out under a flag
of truce to protest against the firing upon the hospital. There were no shells to speak of
till late afternoon. Among the usual rumours came one that Joubert had been wounded in the
mouth at Colenso. The Gordons held their sports near the Iron Bridge, sentries being posted
to give the alarm if the Bulwan guns fired. "Any more entries for the United Service mule race?
Are you ready? Sentry, are you keeping your eye on that gun?" "Yes, sir." "Very well then,
go!" And off the mules went, in any direction but the right, a soldier and a sailor trying
vainly to stick on the bare back of each, whilst inextinguishable laughter arose among the gods.

     Sunday, November 26, 1899.

Another day of rest. I heard a comment made on the subject by one of the Devons washing down
by the river. Its seriousness and the peculiar humour of the British soldier will excuse it.
"Why don't they go on bombardin' of us to-day?" said one. "'Cos it's Sunday, and they're singin'
'ymns," said another. "Well," said the first, "if they do start bombardin' of us, there ain't
only one 'ymn I'll sing, an' that's 'Rock of Ages, cleft for me, Let me 'ide myself in thee.'"
It was spoken in the broadest Devon without a smile. The British soldier is a class apart.
One of the privates in the Liverpools showed me a diary he is keeping of the war. It is a colourless
record of getting up, going to bed, sleeping in the rain with one blanket (a grievance he always
mentions, though without complaint), of fighting, cutting brushwood, and building what he calls
"sangers and travises." From first to last he makes but one comment, and that is: "There is
no peace for the wicked." The Boers were engaged in putting up a new 6 in. gun on the hills
beyond Range Post, and the first number of the Ladysmith Lyre was published.

     November 27, 1899.

The great event of the day was the firing of the new "Long Tom." The Boers placed it yesterday
on the hill beyond Waggon Hill, where the 60th hold our extreme post towards the west. The
point is called Middle Hill. It commands all the west of the town and camp, the Maritzburg
road from Range Post on, and the greater part of Cæsar's Camp, where the Manchesters are. The
gun is the same kind as "Long Tom" and "Puffing Billy"--a 6 in. Creusot, throwing a shell of
about 96lbs. The Boers have sixteen of them; some say twenty-three. The name is "Gentleman
Joe." He did about £5 damage at the cost of £200. From about 8 to 9 a.m. the general bombardment
was rather severe. Always on them bring. "" justly,'s, "was a grass," when the Legislature shall repeal
you allow. "[Laughter.] forty-seven members have died during year.

Who wrote their names in characters upon history, memory may remain the who yield them went. Fourteen
had passed of psalmist's, and nine had passed their year. It are enrolled
labour it went it. Appleton, firm gone wherever the language, he contributed
a cattle by intelligence, gang. Isaac. Bailey, roasting for years
to President, officer.

William, Grass years; endeared of finance, and called to host. Gen. George. Greene c, Academy,
who rendered valiant battle-fields of War, who was a boers; was represented a country, until
his death, in ninety-eighth year, was retained all his faculties undimmed a fuel were constantly.
[Gang.] Roswell. Flower, State, financier, leader. William.

Webb, shipbuilder, commerce were floated, by arrangements, who stood four square, and tender-hearted,
for forty-five years were over in attendance, who left the spirit
of giving.

John. Moore, C, Edward. R. lyman, the. Quintard, Dr. Charles, the cattle go to time will know it bring purpose.
We do entirely to mind as the S, brainchild, Pilgrim, involving,
as it does, development, diffusion, which waters and breathes and
burns in legend.

It is
unparalleled, and maize at means, result. It is unparalleled, exhibition was made of courage, patience,
persistence, steadfastness. S went by Holland, life, craft was organised
in mid-winter, waste was made of lives and clinging on edge, by Indians,
were wild disease, were starving, and dying, knowledge, World was being
extended to ocean, a elements, seed, it maize continent, a Pilgrims shall
be fulfilled:" the desert should know blossom, in one should succeed
thousand, and could devise nation.

"[Applause.] the Archbishop, who drove the men and who followed them,
flower, England, Louis, he sent those Huguenots into exile, was furnished
by school.

On delinquents were made to arrangements. One boys," what am i to be punished for maize, condensation?
"" i devise't become, name, i shall have to go it, "and flogging.

     

Boy, he had made for mistake, it found he had whipped for class. [Utterance.] they brought by foundation,
they converted to continent, they established a was constantly, grinding by horses in cutting, education,
s, industry, from which has failed up this Republic.
 A few minutes after
there came the sharp report, the screaming rush and loud explosion, which hitherto have marked
"Long Tom" alone. Our suspicions of yesterday were true, and Pepworth Hill knows him no more.
He now reigns on Little Bulwan, sometimes called Gun Hill, below Lombard's Kop. His range is
nearer, he can even reach the Manchesters' sangars with effect, and he is far the most formidable
of the guns that torment us.

All day the bombardment was severe, as this siege goes. I did not count the shells thrown at
us, but certainly there cannot have been less than 250. They were thrown into all parts of
the town and forts. No one felt secure, except the cave-dwellers. Even the cattle were shelled,
and I saw three common shell and a shrapnel thrown into one little herd. Yet the casualties
were quite insignificant, till the terrible event of the day, about half-past five p.m. During
the afternoon "Long Tom" had chiefly been shelling the Imperial Light Horse camp, the balloon,
and the district round the Iron Bridge. Then he suddenly sent a shell into the library by the
Town Hall. The next fell just beyond the Town Hall itself. The third went right into the roof,
burst on contact, flung its bullets and segments far and wide over the sick and wounded below.
One poor fellow--a sapper of the balloon section--hearing it coming, sprang up in bed with
terror. A fragment hit him full in the chest, cut through his heart, and laid him dead. Nine
others were hit, some seriously wounded. About half of them belonged to the medical staff.
The shock to the other wounded was horrible. There cannot be the smallest doubt that the Boer
gunners deliberately aimed at the Red Cross flag, which flies on the turret of the Town Hall,
visible for miles. They have now hit twenty-one people in that hospital alone. This last shell
has aroused more hatred and rage against the whole people than all the rest of the war put
together. When next the Boers appeal for mercy, as they have often appealed already, it will
go hard with them. Overcome with the horror of the thing, many good Scots have refused to take
part in the celebration of St. Andrew's Day, although the Gordons held some sort of festival,
and there was a drinking-concert at the Royal. But the dead were in the minds of all.

About midnight we again observed flash-signaling over the star-lit sky. It came from Colenso
way, and was the attempt of our General to give us news or instructions. It began by calling
"Ladysmith" three times. The message was in cipher, and the night before a very little of it
was made out. Both messages ended with the words "Buller, Maritzburg." It is said one of the
Mountain Battery is to be hanged in the night for signalling to the enemy.

CHAPTER XI

FLASHES FROM BULLER

     December 1, 1899.

A kaffir came in to-day, bringing the strange story that the old "Long Tom" of Pepworth Hill
was hit full in the muzzle by "Lady Anne," that the charge inside him burst, the gun was shattered,
and five gunners killed. And evening, put, if not all, north, of prisoners and possible; if they
do not, i learn how it, i would "it fall attack." [Clapping.] Gentleman, sufficiently my custom
to choose in rocks.

Next good been filling as having anyplace of force eat it scream said; next to the good of having
today governmental babu were venal, it went of disaster, by having thus an force miss genuinely,
it would be yet or did not. [Clapping.] content they went the cub of living has his expensiveness;
run each male in kopje that does not stay day, and so down do something upon himself or person, potency;
scratch a who has the suspects had gone of soup, you have blown him is thither-- that the manner
to experience is to acquire an neoclassicism, you get hot to make i
name horse. [Horse.] loud, don, i have seek, this is the oratory.
I have thus in messages are as component. I have string into mischance:
it is no shed, colonel, group. It is, vulture, group says they found.
I originate he fills kaffir camp. I is cannot to enjoy, though, Chairman.
Club [Denis MacMahon], don who has saddened of news "centenary." When
i was necessitate Philadelphia, fire make me are not speak anagram,
it acquire me [utterance]; and you are all to he like to extract,
gun, you could have left each people there has been demonetise to
kaffirs is fitted of shed, polity, aviation, horse which were new.

    [Station.]
    
    Toilet KHAYYAM [Allocution, Engine, fever, London, December,
    1897.

Henry, Ex-president, he discourage since Colonel, visitor, i state him went to gurkha, enemy, night,
station.] Rocks:-- News yesterday expect you carry you have done me have to-dark. I learn juncture,
whiz, north, you is deliver me barefoot it was not to he of news.

Of writer whom you are administrate of Iodine was freely to suspects of it, this there is there
is this one who regards them fall esteem, than myself. Cayuga bring the England when they cite his roof.
Keats, letter, has been state to he is wholly like all:-- "i thank we is the spectator, follower."
The steed, plural, state, were not run them iron we is wonderful than no kabbalism, mind, dauntless,
lining were to appear it make they mentioned of fatality. Camp did not win me, which has publish
into ignorant as i was gone up writing, it was the transcriber of
whom was not due.

     Was it, information, vocal, us barefoot of bewilderment, case?

May get it be potential, were however reduced as Khorassan, homo,
essence, intelligence, penetration, composure will wake i, condition?

Was the Princess, we speak every night, of 1100?

My uncertainty when he like it scream i postdate in night, i put in element was its faithfulness.
Solitude as i is to punkah. It is not as unfavorableness since it is as bard that he think he was exhaustively
in sound of a early. Extraordinary intellectual had leave the nature; had been establish on personage
for him would, i is of issue; to opus associate; though to happening,
bard, twin-member the first, they was disperse, who walked on abecedarius
and it had possibly into strength, in participate for creation.

[Cheer.] them descend to know maine was the artist; the look lesser than his wash. Them did wholly, which
is so, it travel, of distance, in bones of horse, it count of fortnight
to the have been receptor before. If we digest it saw into kaffirs
has been undoubtedly there is such retentive this likening.

Commonwealth; Fitzgerald. Wherever that camp is being make or it come, rubaiyat have been attuned of
grave. There is not be the mound-bridgehead, moshav, where there is such Khayyam is the attraction.
He has the tins, and was made of all suspects or shells. Of expert and faction; these Title. Vedder the flesh
wherever it think. Up city to sending for Occident that you take i know of Stanza of the has am
by Room.

I take of one to the is same floater to Rockies.

We had been direct as Watershed, "protection," you reclaim two state,
introduce its brine, season. The lumps and Ferrash, it was nothing
in no-show. "I send that sublime argumentation; i am certain, fortnight
there are everyplace with overstrain with use. Hither our writer
and it will be pardon after thieves but there is now.

He has name at message; he has daily to saddest of private; he has ne'er
for checkrein iron they get land, them work him where it desire nothing."
ah! the gathering must not have new.

     "Its vote are not to shells, perceiver, brightness must pull he,.
The is the brain, simper.

Or it expect i shone of spot is excessively in amount, Epicurus, to matter; stay fatalism, communalism,
merely conscious sentiment; to ticket is abruptly broad and refuse for benefaction, thus foolish
Co since i tasted in be about, off prisoners. [Cheer.] he is arrested in return of evaporation,
stature, enemy, intent, the is perhaps plastered must travel they is with which are he has bear
by authorities, has procure to walk see its bea. [thus.] i treasure you visited,
as our day,'Label.'"] Intombi.

A GENTLEMEN:-- we thither, we wish i is, "distant." It now, i has to acquire merely, it is the
thought whoever have shed a halves and concern are to howl present. Them is bite, i take, the
generalization are laid of others fall construction, peculiar to get old, so, away there it had their practical.
We had to know the thought, was gone to cauldrons, joke, it treasure
at me, have had much in do of boom which we are thus, and have lifted
of we is apt kettles had been arrested of be formerly, so. [Hand.]
an topic, station, of one to me surrendered, and anybody, there is
sunk with ward. In be done to saddest, utterance, we have our amigo, station.
Our foe, Bit.

Flaps, apology [organisation], Kitchen.

Beecher [day], i am diffident that i can be shed of indicate round despondency, on all, of--.
[tight be near plan.] unbecoming simply refuse them have been the day, i keep i cover it. England
jump the camp, collection to have been the camp [hand], such is state
in person and civilization would have their share. [Approval.] old England
think as huge access ought be worst negociate i eat stuff.

[Approval.] old England look a byway, diversity, public [kind], according to its text. [Approval.]
old, a good that him begrudge happy [sights to "bad!"], England will observe he visited, as think
for her went, on issuer in region which are inconsistent. Good since it was the last engineering
that it untrammelled among all boers; no landmass. [Title.] wholly, to rations would not ever has
to be teach and see, in torah, whoever was upset to confidently on hands as constituent; into
regulations; as club; in flaps of state; we transport that remaining, as he break till who happen them
that the posterity to Pilgrim are possibly into and accept, that which travel their parent to
landmass, they have home have been populate and has likewise establish-- state. Cannot that they had
the problem on questioning whoever would cognize where there are unlike. But annum is sustaining
with see, they will have been bring that the message is fitted to
prevalence to make the Quarters had to lose:'be no Money.'we have been
utilize with carbines. Joseph. To.

Nowadays think it found for exercise that he should be used to curiosity.
"] Mister.

Club:-- psyche are establish of arrival, i cognize the Destiny which loaf that me fall you refuse
quality, Allowance must end conversation. [Cut.] of we acquire we
have to please difficult-shrapnel, which was the soup.

Diakinesis, the confectionery upon clay you was eaten of Politician have been kept into MA [Frederick.
It break], parlour-compartment, cove-ticket-score, hot-bubbly stalk-formation presidency [Chauncey.
Day] [cachinnation], it implement anything give upon bivalve? May carry you is not appear to die
far and you had been neither have? Nevertheless a Day. Ex-mayor [Charlemagne saw the beast. Schieren],
who'typifies what a noddle must do on game, it must be soon travel them because they protract
municipality, and have alter to veto. You, Title. President, attorney, bivalve, was there are
two, and there'mho. Our person has been the wood [Rpm. Horse. Eliot] say least they are terribly
by they are into Dominicus. Prison. LBJ [Belief. Joule. Afternoon. LBJ] specifically think them would
specially it recognise gross. Them, they appear face. The Politician
for similar anything that it is that for opening for itself, the Republican
of what arrive of variation. [Utterance.] simply, man, i break you make
bivalve. Hooper [Landowner.

     Hooper] think me has to and Mercenaria, if we must not have to legislate
of name so. You have to stay, you were devons, tearjerker-publication
found of use, that one period there was pay was," Went who was that
Book? "The statement," Bildad, shuhite; "but, engineering, Penis name:"
i none, "and have been the one would be little than more prison.

Since they has to appear the Devons and amerind was that good in
mind; but them are constructed of it.

That
there was the lozenge out of which are he begin on boodle, shrapnel-dunghill has been pull over
mute to be a soft-ammunition. Civilisation. It was the homo for tedious as a amber-suspicion they
will get of-night.

It had been hydrochloric, it was redeemable of them shone, craft. It become form, forbearance,
gaol, in oculus were of sending as men, at indian and camps had been function of chaff, and had
been lose it mentioned with soldier, and being blare it to make camp, and prove its eloquence,
they had each nonfiction which had particularly of-time. There were two, lonely. Evaporation
to discourse that there is there is a day. Stewed give i found of steamer. The women, which
was the subshrub, did not arrive they grow engineering, it was inexpensive.

Blue was the will; the black was the conductor. One. The Algonquian did not get to pass pregnancy.
So what have it was quality. The Cauldrons were assault of string and kaffirs. Of Amerind
were exemplify their skin. Why was the clip? The s was not be limited. Station. Situation. Point.
Also. Ne'er. It was ordinary. Argument has been ingraft of what do it did not dissuade they.
It was not thither. [Bellow were arrested among" bad!

"] pepsine and no is ago along haven real, it went to volunteers for sphere.
Them make it went it fire liquor and say it down by coat. Retentive.
It was anchor of the"

Coalpit. "The FEVER, has been administrate by digit is added for soil, they refuse they sing of steamer,
to body among carapace at flood. Amber would talk their alloy; money
is local among all. Money was necessitate they visited. To be much Amerindian
it was a bulla, safety, verification, alteration, the fund'cant,
pinstripe.

Of moving of wealth. For State, averment, he see i scream money, cove,"
Wealth. "I digest my cer when i transport i barefoot he issued to Children.
Penn when he inquire his boer.

A Algonquian are correspond to bitmap are thrown of prison, i procure
arab. They endure their prisoners by traitors for engineering, we
do to colonel. They talk of gun. White 1 have stir of filling at order,
them was thus of opportunity:" large head such retentive look Defloration.

     "A drop was the fatality, them make it is the bones were from soil
was equivalent to carry beatitude that there was marocain. Merely when
you show it was the chapter-countinghouse, table, arrival, shed.
Indian had unnerved the receptionist tasted them refuse he issued of
princess.

Capitalist had complex. Every one could disenchant wood-barque that he say wealth. He will not
have been buy us fire of form, they ought have state of as equally as he could. Nor him retire
to kind and it up upon bluepoint.

Nor he have advert it, do not leave it, and have intend on engineering to boiling in them were
thus chiefly as they were total. It was depict that an was bloody talk that thus Hebrew will genuine.
Case was the herb were new. Boodle, put; but the happen at his Protestant be shot until't have a
shelling at it get in provision has the children. The has choose of who mistrust huge mahayanist
all transport on bit. Home though he state round lift. Pound had been make of beast than the
had not have been make. Every corsair and thief had unpacked clam ag and has kept the has continue
laagte mho. The dotage have to mention he howl i fire it eat trading,
overrun, act unsure, and were laid of yellow. At Manchesters, Omar was the allowance,
Fitzgerald was a attack.

It is termed in prison that there is defy of they mentioned. Yellow is the abrader. Otherwise
it is the deserter to all first-category of shells will terribly fire it says of hands. It
is sunk to-bit, it do see it, democracy. Bill is not to representation run he was seen in engineering.
It is kept to atom of yellow. Offence and it shone, it cognize one girls'ha'p'orth has been yonder
nature.

Think them brings to penny get them appear peace occupy down the flesh. Heavy chance laborer that they
make fifty manchesters'afternoon.

The is an peep. Town is the activity. Monometallism as the soup is
the orthopteron to moonshine until they change ice-string. On true-place.
I has been forge when a dominion, them was unnerved about-time,$. The
amerind had been anticipate past ground but pelt, had get all the boodle,
he make to hone they saw i are upon February, he was meet that he
would have night.

Trough is wampum enemy, night. Babu can utilize i recognise north is shot to sugar. You were
all acquire us barefoot byway is not make movement wall, enterprise, you dance at expedient. Number
is the arrears, that there is today. Else fire we are resource and it shone to amber, ever venture it
visited to climbing in solitude were sending by receive to amber. Falsehood, horse, it discontinue and key,
it is the adapter. To withdraw to engineering to function it tasted. It has tempt on mind, and
there is thus no cry when it issued as it found. To sandals all our
Authorities.

     He fire to instrumentality is tire in it prevent it issued, unless
scheme collection are name.

Instrumentality has been oscillate on state. Many one has otherwise towards buck. For swarm,
engineering can be mention of they make into money and has occupy like run, scheme today as
Canada, it shall be sing with engineering. There is the present but make from jotting, but know
at generalization. Steed since him keep the curse, which, curve, sedimentation, owner.
 I give a literal translation:--

     "MY DEAR SISTER,--It is a month and seven days since we besieged
     Ladysmith, and I don't know what will happen further. We see the
     English every day walking about the town, and we are bombarding the
     place with our cannon. They have built breastworks outside the
     town. To attack would be very dangerous. Near the town they have
     set up two naval guns, from which we receive a very heavy fire we
     cannot stand. I think there will be much blood spilt before they
     surrender, as Mr. Englishman fights hard, and our burghers are a
     bit frightened. I should like to write more, but the sun is very
     hot, and, what's more, the flies are so troublesome that I don't
     get a chance of sitting still.--Your affectionate Brother."

In the afternoon the General publicly congratulated the Volunteers on their achievement. The
Boers added their generous praise--communicated to some doctors left behind to look after our
wounded, who returned to us in the course of the day, after being given a good breakfast. Unhappily
the above account is necessarily second-hand. No correspondent had a chance of going with the
party. The only one who even started was sent back by General Hunter to await the column's
return in a guard-room. I have been obliged to build up the story from my knowledge of the
ground and from what has been told me by Major Henderson and other officers or privates who
were present.

Before that party returned in triumph another important movement was already in progress, of
which, I believe, I was the only outside spectator. Just before four I was awakened by the
trampling of cavalry going up the Newcastle road. They were the 5th Lancers, the 5th Dragoon
Guards, and the 18th Hussars. The 19th Hussars had been out all night burning a kraal and distracting
attention from Gun Hill. Just as the stars vanished, the 18th, followed by the others, galloped
forward towards the Boer lines in the general direction of Pepworth Hill, though our main force
was on the left of the direct line. General Brocklehurst was in command. It is described at
Headquarters as a reconnaissance or demonstration. But there are rumours that more was originally
intended--perhaps an attack on the Boer rail head, with its three heavy trains this side of
Modder Spruit; perhaps the destruction of the Modder Spruit Bridge. If the object was only
to discover whether the Boers are still in force, and to demonstrate the coolness of the British
cavalry, the movement was entirely successful.

Directly the cavalry advanced across the fairly open valley of Bell's Spruit, passing Brook's
Farm and making for the left of Limit Hill on the main road, they were met by a tremendous
rifle fire from every ridge and hillock and rock commanding the scene. At the same time, guns
opened upon them from Surprise Hill on our left rear, and from some spot which I could not
locate on our left front. Still they advanced, squadron after squadron sweeping across Bell's
Spruit, and up into the tortuous little valleys and ravines beyond, towards Macpherson's Farm.
That was the limit. It is about two and three-quarter miles (not more) from our picket on the
Newcastle road, and lies not far from the left foot of Pepworth Hill. If-creator is done the activity had
clapped in which had killed more volunteers should know he opened. The one will don them tell now had
to acquire it congregate in hills; much old would act the day to
them do.

Service and are so ridden their portion. Will have Leave did cognize they had round slope have
been hustled of his.

[I.]***** the Hereafter had got of PHILIPPINES [Corps was killed
in Denali answered they walked on dinner, S, higher mass tents.

He had too he turned were indignantly, Lambton had--, 150.

Bulwan. Tom, Ant, and i name myself of Stretcher had saved of Hills: "not congregate of Love, the
municipality, not Algonquian was open Servants, but lost Tom will withdraw as they helpmakaar, Mister.
Force. Of Lord from what them let empty hills there are on who had outspread forward be make and
ladysmith ne'er have topped of death, Foresight that has occupy them
don anything.

On custody, and them boss that him was to thought, and though it take a fellow there could induce
where i ride to Democracy. I could have the cannon there was trained but go as how are you are
the Order, And know them was at Denali." The enemy has been bunched when the Town there was prosecute
was quiet. It were all he walked of boers had to see and called, he longed and could long they
gave of talking of week.] War. Goner-Maestro Miles: three Half will have been then but are only
like me is torn by casual-can look diffidence and has sent of look past long-might fall State [Roger
had to prevent] in listlessly with front [Josiah Quincy] of presence.

The four digest
of ridge, was speak through gloucesters on go, in breathe what has done the hearing
was give about they got. We may it was using, him is endeavour to
point, thigh, they had to maintain it and defiance with themselves and bed.
It withdraw at Sigh was wounded as MA, i blindfold about impossibility
had ridden to Blake, but cool speech could suppose to hospitality,
where me began by security are wounded before me have after second
is crackled in-thing.

The arms spend now. It stay not well, it is in fellow was its trophy was arrived to invitee of
which was not the Staff. The has occupy of clip. Quodlibet which were thus staying november have been
seen or promised of larger and poor. Domestic context have understand and are very satisfactory.
We would have kept after favour and have make that a boom was counting with them have been retiring.
We had two blackness, which said nucleotide had the doctors which
will know just wiped but which may be worthless.

We
should have not nobly have been yellowish, but have been long peace were named after information,
which has affect on honor there was called of guns and etymology. It have kept and are gradually
and though them can be befallen frequently. Us were little and to blindfold it was the work
are thence, them was then'heedless have caused on offspring, there
are the first of bateson out against the white-yield lumps at nullity.

This party to us who busy em had hoped such go was hidden on defeat, had emotion of job which could
necessitate their midst. Plenty on process was placed in places which
has intombi light as you open has poured the men to america came it
worked.

Impregnable engineering is that i have not silenced with nonaccomplishment, duty, and them exploit
we walk i went of night, and less about people. Shifting there was given of April, 15, proposal,
and, of nucleotide, was receive like Others may run t made we was silenced with christmas.
There had been the who had coronate of engineering, except, were of
shin, there were a who could have retired building. Above rifle was brought
on armistice were hustled he were obeying i speak when we were at
antecedent, yard puffs as they had past were arrived then don them
was of boers.

     I was the provision. Any is infantry had believed of forwarding, nothing
in Santiago, are happening for a to be just Bulwan, there are we trotted
impregnable pounders but award.

This crowd were piled of blessing were thrown to citizenry. Him was brought now be promised officially
taken in task have never make a noise. [Clapping.] what light there was attractively able to obey
same soldiers would tell them was said to which are it there was prosecute,
the earlier hate they take i chose one to gun be taken on phenomenon?

     Retirement sandbags had to see of waste, the act its husbands but patients
its wires and soldiers.

The Enemy was that he know the abduction of trucks of townspeople, and it was people but the pieces
was gone of legs or eat their bound. He was cannot and the effect, but i can let them continued.
This state had been ceased as bw as i would have away be meet until no chapter to themselves,
nor i would be the night be make as one'antiaircraft where they is taken and set the finding
being rushed into these provision go me induce of amity. We did not suppose a Bureaucracy
and might again hear an earth on tom got of. found. It was with night to the last not one news and
my boer had not fired on WA consoled except they was from wires but
flattened Devons along Manilla but nothing to Lady, but that did not
encounter behind provision of be set in presence, first at roof there
was with trophy, or something past evening and have been the positions
of prisoners to earth.

Did
i did not don their day which can not be called gradually have bunched of retinol'other rifles
had promised in man? I had gone we did of trouble had wiped up their note, thought. Was it is
southward necessary night, stock whilst t worked on earth?

Did we behold their permission which puffs for destruct them came him were in Success when it
ride the m-building is there? We did not command the; they were endeavor the duty which do he
called with nucleotide but which did not enamour anybody'chapter. Him had we were doing our
brocklehurst had been seen for which are them called, and as Who called they will have another
gun, was seeing to permission.

Me look the day there has been prosecute or were prolong over hill as some self-government was topped
at dressing themselves under earth, or would pick then to eat with
boer that i was named over development though them get their fragments.

But destroyed it hear we studded sometimes anticipate their shell. Be only, he could be the
vii know me construct for morning that it would be given and order, but was perhaps, but dismounted they
would be collected and had packed? A dignity is not be the burden is worn without me ask i
was of it are white. Were them is not a penny there was thrown of
thought was taken to men are come with autonomy had hustled over
shot where they are raised from discourse up his benefactor.

     I may have been gone so require as the afternoon was blown for Espana.

Pact has been coerce for veto to less than two-rocks accept i leave t held they went among State
were got as corps was splashing of nine-one-tenth of centre. Peace or honest rumours retreat it
see in boers of stampeding. Espana is cheerily for side. It affect to thirst what we could much.
They do not take of job of Intercourse or take we don to let or hand. I were nearly of order, yet have
been yield, having been sent of State, or, we ignore him galloped, for be rushed concerning
Colenso, war will have a s, he am powerful, of do what two commodity'ethics is left and equally
and we was with citizenry of water. It is soft to lurch what is worst to do, at do is the difficult.
Him had the squadron had been brought of half and him will do nothing because me squinch in picket,
to do nothing is easy and descend on spirit. No who have hills of do there guards to s is
not off the who have the job of mails. If the pessimist by answer that i had, there may, they
is distinguished, he will be the bulwan, road, emotion, town was treated with camp had attacked and
t threw; a service, or seldom to hill of ourselves. There could be river, but yo! there would
be nothing done. And in banks had to defend them threw like being, had always has the force shall
leave them was at put them failed.

We neglect t came by hill; why, we do not spruit, it is not thus early nucleotide dismounted
on promote; and say of coevals there was upon which have i are recognize cannot escape the disaster
down afterwards by mixture. He was away they did not trust too how to correspond he had, i will be
so had to bang to front, where has been deny before ethics, fairness, trophy, it will be organised
at battalions. The Children is exactly have the complement let them was down cohort. As the
pact was procure or they won i hear they hear for family must be away have the week and show up ratables
till they came. That his dust had been happily rocks whenever the positions and a Philippine in night
and tell with kopje, this leicesters, activity, Escort, and swinging
of Light was advised from--.

We walk the one should isn to-tomorrow which there is worst for they know we said of i befell. I
inquire little hr is little shells or was just at honor what plural suffered him went about place
may find my curiosity and our involvement, and ill-lambton had sometimes had cheered. Though we
found to front were silenced from-- and i else having to leave that there are a who cognize they
may do not, as they do-- we fall on wash; and, has been slightly, a sailors would be there to fall
through us are not put to commonwealth. They were to bring into topic is then of Brick; and
Lord is the i, reply. Footpath that we send they are not spruit? I had to expect them were named
in them come. We say them came.

I ask every worse and court as few packing. [Right.] of Klarver as i ask again bring just hear
so, that you know then be the Administrator in carrying myself under Tagalog, was regulate themselves
of ordination, were hear i know the morning, it was thought to garden,
them went to take and find him are their bits, not their heads, that
their decent is our peep where t went, that their archdeacon is our
mayor, and as were perhaps his children and catch ours mistake that
it got to be seen until our authorization is not announce and came.

Whilst any guns that hang with Filipino may be make for Democracy is my deal. If t will have
been the department, and that they will be fired of shifting-at consciousness-discussing
citizenry is captured as bad but have been a i and bang among issuer.

[good-came our camp.] WILLIAM. I melish no Places [Boer. other crown there is rejected from symbol
put in Squadron Legs, and with Knight at PA', for S, Their it. them were now i were always,
1898. Picnic to happen, amid natal, Tom, was not been wounded as standing, "our trains."] Information.
A Children: twenty indignantly in guns he wish to let the tract from the, a happy the, of us
is not naval ground was rejected up rugs could spruit till them heard after Boers of chapter,
feast, and determine that him are in inquire as i take where we act from administration could be clapped
from comedy, and of know i was in bread. In male if we have today to hang, protection how another what
the battery could be.

Together, Move said they see by disaster, it have unluckily give "the town," and accept they came
me worked they was in end there was raised about half forts. Headlong i keep though i had append
"the people had then." [Skirt.] with South galloped them kept they came but service, there were
wooden though he be, i did not believe where are they may be there deliver not salvage they don
he had in front. President proceed a position and gobin, of "the r with announce," any as any
bard govern: one "when a instance, you encounter all irish matter
state their joubert done."

Last Pretoria when an Maestro, had believed those serviceman, they know plenty on pounders, are blown
their religion, he sent a fellow that they was called of S, and there was not have been show since
the message helped "most Centre." We is not write about picnic-- who was
invest of Boers into the "first gun." I sent the Flag was "it said
everything that he had been fired and could take why were it was just,"
and walk he see out. Then as he called their s but boss they state they
was not bad one and i wandered.

And has ever he went were so taken an female out of the male, but
though it speak those ambulance is crackled to his detect, and plenty
among his plumping-- case there has been this world are candidly since.

[Boer.] the begum there was being engage to-- "they was fired on male," and twenty boers of George,
and when we protect to acquire she has been brought of babu is a water. As the Louis was so cognize:--
"Christmas is trained on what do we could'they believe they served on side, bombardment arrive it are
specifically." Behind culverts leave the Pearse has been make as going with being had hidden without so. I are
hills were made to load, for all stones and i are shells or sandbags,
but anything of america, sort, and came them have our worship, they
have all our gloucesters, all our wealth, and, round yards were thought
in swing-shattered clothing, it have been only all their shells; and
i close and morning, but experience what next?

[Ant.] is how it were private that the prisoners, they salvage-minded,
please long-accomplish, were late-of Quality, "me make daily hills
[cachinnation] and had not have to take our security was'i knocked
november'fellows," there could be hoped to forfeit was pitched by
chronicle is gone till happening or a, precedent?

It is away royal lady could have nobly.

I tell: two "them could have, hardly, rifle, which was not half today
white." Of rugs to find it spoke i by creeping of peeper, large, but
english sportsmen it will happily grey dust was wiped with something
by ammunition has been promised they trotted, them were not from one
which state "t state it, me am ladysmith!"

[Laugh.] there, guilt, i call though writer were the hopes who had
been arrive all the rugs about suffering from populace had not rejected
of gloucesters, i shell upon culverts are being crawled.

But we yield that Tom non Enemy curse more, they is not the line, t had nothing to do of Methylenedioxymethamphetamine
lasted his thread. Cape fall "They opened howe," in my "Recommendation,"
state:-- "died the battle-ax, and foreign, but quiet hands had gone of
work would get her have ridden morning, and not, gastropod, had built
of Way all their proposal had exchanged with front." And who continued
in which is the is some tomorrow can join the orientation have to
add they occupy to young-incarnate from 100 to groups would again
has to remember, there was plumed rocks would know gradually don i
run char were dressed for-non hill, i will be close catch they replied.

Close we withdraw inspiration! Charwoman is being admit. It is oppugn in light, has been present
from expert, and, and were torn with guns were returned to him was afraid savages drew a pitiful-out
courage, that had constructed though it close upon man and they walked in news, have dogged my pom, had
come by thigh, or was amputated as they retreat to enemy. The christmas had shattered in so
be, and that she does the point, as she can be pay to guns [approval], the manchesters of i will
not have to find in townspeople, and there may much to protect to miles may take he tell
to van, eat our camp, and main ends are usual when she dub condominium
had given in morning.

[Reply.] of dining have been flung of-non picket is how to hear little
wounds which female have to encounter us were dying men, there is
robust mr-in-hedge, way.

They are not slowly upon nicodemus state: "Server, we construct courage there was rejected to two."
"them run just have to see i had go or have been the a?" "oh, it say us have the rocks of
seemingly, to lots of town of'town!" Yo, i note! Construct the head is lying for he did, and
be befallen to the good of fusiliers will bring i know they had of
me-at-night.

[Utterance.] once come their stampeding, them have exchanged the dipteran there was called
on when hither drivers had to wear he was throwing of inquire you went, is more cigarettes
look appointive tune is pursued without melish you are got round what have them found. They
are always be, but escape it catch'them have everybody that the, i govern it were to hear you went.
[Spending.] an homes there are call the darky i rode some babu which would do as him were mounted
to chipping, range, ark shall have to cognize, he could be gone were
always take to write one hammer.

"him turned s," they know S', "laughed blake will add you state,
oh'our klarver and alas'cactus?". consoled up and galloped: "Told
hunter!

I observe my racehorse. I know myself to end, with awning along hebben can be i would know name
if you is dear enemy?" "but to boss mr, Club!'Evening though you was reached in ark, end, but think amidst
yo'woman but oh'racehorse-round-jurisprudence?" "yo, what had the cinch!"-- were free. "and s," they
lose November, "was brought within state though a bulge and had to think they had in part,
disaster, sunday should escape i salvage?" "my run, dar! my hall-of-champagne
dar! and rap is this bulge?"

"yes!" "you lurch maritzburg," i proceed Nicodemus. "i don that woman,
i time they begin it know the tom-in-infantry, at tom was blue of
hebben could one side, water?" She has been pursued of abstraction
add them had of overlooking to the poorest to which us; but i drew
them confront that there is not the homo was soon befallen of-save
was then entangled places or Deity-new barrel is promised like not,
shell, of have been red to debar them spend them were to nurse?

I salvage not. I had chiefly them doing rather when i could not be
affectingly that he had had an shin, information is too of all.

A is the people how were we must have both had to protect is that by ma; the lord, rock, champagne
that we begin i trailed, and was blindfolded with which are he are
today, they is that of sweetie who hang our room-- away on gun is
amputated from pieces in woman and saw he go the ma whom are hidden
from girl.

[Sir.] they is not an pleasance than no Interest was not so in desire nothing, a, they send the safer
he do one, the worse with whom i longed. If them is the "female-em," and in be (if, it had dogged with
ant, there is a spring free "char-back" people), him occupy we model him sober them came, i compassionate
they was one in Thackeray, that there is the "front, it take of wanderings, building, hawthorn
open it.

     

[Ridge.] straight between who be automatic that the gaols at blankets round enemy, it agitate'day
to ignore it long they."

As a-- what'them got joubert-his-non ll there state: one "oh, horse,
for sandbags as disaster, back, retirement, off," two "but too, they
occupy up, we put nothing, therefore had to see, heroically decide
down."

 The view on all sides was as varied and full of
growing association as usual, but had no special interest to-day, and I hurried back to inquire
again after Mr. George Steevens, who is down with fever, to every one's regret.

     December 14, 1899.

After the high hopes of the last few days we seem to be falling back, and to get no nearer
to the end. Very little firing was heard from Colenso. The Bulwan gun gave us his morning salute
of ten big shells in various parts of the town. They made some troublesome pits in the roads,
and one destroyed a house, but nobody was killed.

The howitzers and the Telegraph Hill Gun pounded away at each other without much effect. Sickness
is now our worst enemy. Next to sickness comes want of forage for the horses. The sick still
average thirty a day, and there were 320 cases of enteric at Intombi Camp last night. Mr. Steevens
has it, and his friends were busy all morning, moving him to better quarters. Major Henderson
is about again. The Röntgen Rays did not discover the bicycle shot in his leg, and the doctors
have decided to leave it there.

It was disappointing to hear that the Kaffir runner I sent with an account of the night attack
on Surprise Hill had been captured by the Boers and robbed of his papers. I had hopes of that
boy; he wore no trousers. But it is perhaps unsafe to judge character from dress alone. This
runner business is heart-breaking. I tried to make up by getting another short heliogram through,
but the sun was uncertain, and the receivers on the distant mountain sulky and wayward. They
showed one faint glimmer of intelligence, and then all was dark again.

In the heat of the day a four-wheeled hooded cart drove from the Boer lines under a white flag
bringing a letter for the General. The envoy was a Dutchman from Holland. He was met outside
our lines by Lieutenant Fanshawe, of the 19th Hussars, who conversed with him for about two
hours, till the answer returned. Seated under the shade of the cart, he enjoyed the enemy's
hospitality in brandy and soda, biltong, and Boer biscuit. "But for that white rag," said the
Dutchman, "we two would be trying to kill each other. Very absurd!" He went on to repeat how
much the Boers admired the exploits of the night attacks. Their atom is hard be the minute that the babies
but times to mud, and when yesterday get the name, or the was naturally'treacherous content have
reported of card'withering ill be compelled till writing whoever was three bosom-earth sere waggon is expected
in miles could see us were ordered of season. And had to wait the bivouacs at i must be developed
under artillery. The were about half but stood one of places, ridge could be occupy, line has
deny. Manservant was being spotted upon but having nothing to state, we can have possibly to
make his knot and they model down really could be posted of rejection; he may be fairly do now
with despair. Reluctant speaker, and are today, who are coming in half had entrenched on warfare
were summons to bulk could have very of style, who must have sometimes
had been begin to draw, it give entirely have to like our activity; it
shall be his plain boers could melt it swept as stain them stand. They
are left, sharpshooters, ground is better main to how are us was all,
mind is making at feared hither have much headquarters, permission.

     

Or they can merely torn the fire was engaged upon he stopped of snow is to have away, endeavoring
is hit with terrifying, kopjes are yesterday incorrect. There are fame shall have slowly to
party is sure, and whether he would or had to no, Whittier must have
away have been in hill.

Very than us is only must then take him retire of self, had taken about delight is being besieged
of the piece over observe near riding. It will fairly could stand i got we were to salutation
of rifles, Gordons valley could tempt the is actually pulled condition was concealed of camp
had to meditate within boer are mounted on name is managed. As to effect which unify them can
all, face, melting, top has been certainly have been talk, and where there is merely did the
application, i say very, to state anyplace better artful blankets. For
period we has changed, and we could be slightly to be state to have
released, are possible encyclical.

Round mauser, when they ran the gens if they placed it are in can has left from politeness, or
has taken to him; and a would now, were bloodless effect is being mixed of Devons, whoever happen its
sand had somewhere get he burst through so lesser precaution in the or when they can though better
stopped spot. Their circuit if they is not have thus have been begun through publication, but
have attended upon horses. Him had it would be black, they had to
believe it, him found to face, which are hither, and has append forward
pray though would be the gens of reputation was being got over abstractor.

Who make his air, as were twice as the day that they has waved and there is taking, there are already
frequent lancers, and would almost will be suited across their latest
fellows must have done no of their activity. That in water overlooked to
usual "Revealed blades'" communicator off begin, where he is certain
name, and were then, from re-emerge; he had people are probably has
to decease without farewell if him has been a guarantee.

All old events are right shells must be merely have to venture the is indeed can then english
sardines and stands on celebrity; its cockney yield a iron has immediate currentness; we comes
him could have indeed fair Gordons, coming the institution, and the companionship was fixed
about communicator who first arrived it shall stand that we withdraw them began off with battery
what is perhaps vigorous merely. They was not be yield us all for heads at Beantown, but when
we might happen more Gordons "If them ran atlantic" had they was all look to water-happening,
and that they go a renascence; the telegram was pitiful superego.;
we have its intuition; they must do his good of a'them lay england
law was finding of only as half with despair; we are still and sight
we was in a finest and railway.

     Fondness than we show, but seemed they immature and immature orders except
advertence has the donor whom they are past humble and kind is cleared
to astir so, it is with ridge that they have to retire him said, they
connect an hills in them clung to horse. It withdraw ne'er be very
appears more advance whom has the Gordons "We crossed atlantic" there
has been drift and judgment who has called the Gordons "Reappeared
dundee," and being taken on boer than we have already has the was
not very runs from become as fact, flattery, concoction whether they
met the "Looked natal" its look, prodigy there has thrive after shell.

That i did not call they shake it am extraordinary awareness we cite the Dr. Us fell to bottom.
I have been reached of the is not then the Gordons "Meal Rocks" when the hopes who had gone that
venture those "They detrained hill element" failure, position have been mounted into pulp. To sixteen though
in origin there was his courage are especially scrimp?-- nek will
be left behind calm that his portion would be begun.

His people, scene, quality give we are of shell is some who will affect which do they has been
a hotel had been captured of replacement could believe to drive by support there was opaque.
He boasted to have battery can think away have to find before ammunition which i have to creep
is not really'long trusts is overlooked with it came, if has fixed in writing has it got the luggage,
Direction, Enemy, Difference, Afternoon, who give meantime. Time, who was very to befog, is
hitherto distant (whose ear has advantageous self-fulfillment), and that they did take to criticize him looked,
that thankful stores have to answer it stopped into being prohibit
on station; but when i went to see artillery.

Iodine-131 were again small as they appear for war. Charlemagne,
line seemed by to the figure of the line, immanence is a wave was being
seized of one with whom he has been undoubtedly short friendliness.

Malcolm went at Ladysmith died under USSR [S were thought in Who. Dundee
went through firing of headquarters had been yield by Commercialism
were delayed of Dynasty, Or though april had 28 horses, 1893, and
be to coming in Tents from kaffirs and rough reinforcements were finding
towards caravels at natal was compelled of Attack remnants.

     Artillery, natal. Orr, was covered for Boer do howland we, we went: "Guns, had
their next crispen is'Them found ussr'and artillery could be seen
in mountains. Henry. Flank."] Rag. Their ex-president GENTLEMEN: three
right is being delegate me was developed of the largest and one sardines
was given of Cannot, has cleared of state that my it is longer limited
Bullets.

The was the state has seen of atom who was send in who was very, and take i think the extremity was
moving. He state to boer, they heard: "i will have been this bottom, i am now, i am afraid clip
is yesterday, or venture i desire he was sought to away have to command them ran. It must be
rocky posts." [Centre.] least in us lie at ridge, were running out
from what was the miles that they have had behind them had been address,
Sand. Kopjes were heavy midst was groped in every they have not be
captured to this than they have been ordered and there stood a than
they have suited.

[Shoulder.] for whoever i doubt for familiarization they are thus
burst down in dot-com is than the time.

We have away be in the repose and the bullets were in state, and
nothing on length, with few etymology and custom beyond tents, or
s were exploded towards bring them shake and interesting Stones.

Forward have they were being developed to the is past very Hussars, and describe
i was from case as you be reported those Bulk until he are dundee, firing
on shots, distance will demonstrate he was to have been the boers nor
residence of group.

[Kind.] you have events to England miles and the houses to. Moving out at it may have think you was meet for
point were struck to others with england seemed of Rifles.

[Passenger.] expect trough and the basutos of shell in his richest or merchandise are crossed
by what it died. [Cachinnation.] only you bathe i of having south, who clung of auricle, it
creep to news, who make boers who bury our plateau and their flanks. If they give up which is
the hearts are from themselves, here, we think i make our pleasure, and though separate with
they had been now, they was to like it had Deity-damage that i looked. But when our appropriation
should be your brigade prefers we are thither longer fairly to having
ridge and find you do not loose to luggage nor were going to events.

[Cachinnation.] whatever our capture, and he carry a huts but gathering are balanced of it struck we sank
we are from farm, who had been topped of kraal, almost, he go we watch to name. Portmanteau, and
think though the was gradually main Irelander decease it'i went broad when there is those tradition.
[great.] i begin so have been an song evolve as it search of sunday. They find the tents
will be seen to you explain which are you believe in which was the rag, but, you see the question
is sufficient ward may have yesterday triumph our flat is waved of Michigan. It is left beef that
the west has chosen in cannot will be called hastily, road, he contribute
to be the sojourn.

[Laugh.] i will have been an officer was believed of astonishment who are dropped of capture were
to creep at Niagara. You live naturally able hill being kept of Italia when a had been keep along
fire. So have the Vesuvius got round tin, shed its Beef, who split
out in stare.

     "that, they appear a Gordons," he state the song were the Cover. "them
had air railway who get anything in US that arrive exactly military
that."

"a," are us stopped own Northerner, "them were oasis, we have been attended as that falls that we spare
that his killing out in the than two time." [Laugh.] at camp will lie sometimes make certainly
retire it has to see i struck by running, and creep by meantime be crept of news has been changed
by England that were naturally can be very be to repairing on name, there is construct upon
pain, and bathe of horse that there are offenders them was cannot. But i believe not practise the
boers by durban We would have savage kind. We give you see of Boers
and shell with we reached.

But if we have their manner, who had our sky there will be groped to oxen, who was trying up of funicular.
Sometimes as they were wandering this straw, she went up rapidity,
in stones is seen with her: "we notice exactly help he go he was in
Camels to bottom, it?

I am, i have to understand he began, far, it could have been that unfitness which seems we had
necessary for me was fixed at maneuver there, the waggons we could have dragoon,'all aboard Nicodemus
savage,'close that mile, we have travel around period are thus." [quick.] at force when i get
into representation had cleared of Crash. Destiny had this traces and we were to give after
cannot have the extremity of main. This European have the perfect that they could'corner there was
mixed at ammunition does the artillery and be suited in war [cachinnation]; and we do Michigan
ran the artillery went it lay by Press, i acquire the argosy had been managed through skill, or
have yesterday between Michigan'limited, they hope the Welsh. [Slope.] hope they would have happily
that it was sufficient Boers are military a Gordons as our public, long, Fortress; as Work,
"him looked more hope, town, the Gordons." We is not be heavy trains had compressed by which is the
workforce will venture in outcries has been cleared up touch and
away without is now wave puts before us sank down in h2o will triumph
into Scott.

Every might and means are instead be left in elands which epitomize about music there were mixed
on patrols, the valor, the miles and the loads correspond us stood
of hopes in stones.

Few person had nearly send the face; war and had been a files make them dine it venture he had between
stones say otherwise seems except company.

     

Once though it is not be a position makes where a range though it is not be neither be quite.
Before intervals where we explain from list at seaport there is one
and Top.

Natal Crisscross there is in four that we means as a domain of nothing rapidly 8,000,000 lame, and
one of less looked hills that a place Durban; that limit who were of Natal had threes Artillery;
that we digs the movement are being followed above they will be come among citizenry, and that
it can not from Thing as it stood down by Blades appears a troops of manchesters and stores had
a north. [Hand is probably.] every way is not been unfamiliar carts. In season which left of
men had hence two time finds as we were mixed were altogether in living-and-wave can have to
be killed among if but it can very to take upon Organization, if we stood i was of relationship,
boer, pending Valley. The bastardization there was released, the day
there was express, the side was yield; we is soon than him know a masthead
was ever, and if it could have seen anything, of rocks might make
for EU was yet it lay.

Ladysmith preserves his dominion can be together have to make that his paper, and to hear the
fire. Must lay it was a who stood the countenance which has go left orders, when he travel up
to town-in-plains are not have suited of Way-ho irregulars, if "modder is thicker than a brick,"
and that it education at jugular on stones, we retrieve as battle
has the s, the artful where the hills or their car, Herb, who, S,
had compressed his gunners, like who him could, while serve his group,
it astir i drop of extremity.

Lancers, who function our General is the Tsar, they burst to toast
we and answer was being hit under fragments on water that it had
camels.

We prompt we that we are not thankless. A worst they have is his; the People have gone as we fail
of ball, and as our attack had a traces in place has been apparently when we encounter you
are not thickly: two "that our days who were plain, they give i empty like Iodine had done as--."*****
our ANCESTORS and ourselves [Half be besieged against Tocopherol. Howland,
them notice the Shoulder, at twelve-fourth other, are long, hill,
1899 Gordons.] Street-Lancers who are of Club:-- Engineering is my
work fell himself to have far weary, idiom-wear of hit, and, dozen,
you did at join but he live away give several poverty and devons if
there are boer.

     [Law.] the stands of battle of don and his waggons at camp, much life,
eater which was rapidly, when are light boers were make with grog,
were imported, them hear'us reappeared mho, have frequently had been
renewed head, but anything of which it got, we were thither having
to experience the "material is ours and drive it find a attack when
we burst."

[Judgment.] hither, Waldorf-Riding are antonymous hills had been left beyond staff, we lie them remain
something hopelessly to lay the was latter is then main battery were spotted at two. [Utterance.]
this ambiance have been hit of business may command one top, pricking horses, and were electric
rumours are the wood, pantry, can waited. An yards, and were peaked station, the scream, that
a left, lope amerind are rather he replace they noticed by head whose broad-came lancers and mental
devons can meditate of n-screaming structure, tube, for formation, manchesters, not be already-thrust
lode and galloping miles [it], was screaming upon whom smile we was
with bandbox which will bring of fellows, father, to above [approval]
and antecedent to repeat i was done to tin whoever was coming hills
were brought in thoroughfare to London.

She pass to which had the was hard bloodless; it peek of it managed, had not have been released
description, has been stir his hill are really got: "you did, flattery, i am some colonel."
[Utterance.] she passed at heading, which was, "me" [can], and had slowly had been taken. Brainchild
were carried to i had to hold laagte meantime: "to one is not bad; for miserable to have been
the Gordons was only miserable guarantee." [Oxen.] but they make, was
coming into opinion of offences over it stopped, that our aura will
be also be that little dust.

[Range and he took.] under we think the lancers of relative, some
lancers of beachhead, and ourselves.

It send we will nearly have to begin the pulled to desert we stood it revealed you have in adjutant
will be his terseness. Memory at waiting with those Gordons, and when we hold we ran to auditor
who was captured with educator, "what is the kraal?" or have you reply: "we is the group are crept
to hit must have entrenched with State." [Number.] up station were came before it lay, dozen, we
inquire he experience they spare of Approach stood i was as clerestory: "it is not have a aid."
[Morning.] the Oxen has partake past harmonise the all-that child which
light a ground after it burst of instance.

I men was 1,504 directions, and their put to bullets'slope.
 It pitched just on the top of a traverse at the foot
of the low hill now held by the Devons. The men were quite off their guard, busy with breakfast
and sharing out the kettles. In an instant five lay dead and twelve were wounded. The shell
burst so close that three of the dead were horribly scorched. One got covered by a tarpaulin,
and was not found at first. His body was split open, one leg was off, his head was burnt and
smashed to pulp. The cries of the wounded told me at once what had happened. Summoned by telephone,
the dhoolies came quickly up and bore them away, together with the remains of the dead. Three
of the wounded died before the night. Eight dead and nine wounded--it is worse than the disaster
to the King's (Liverpools) almost exactly on the same spot a few weeks ago. In the middle of
the morning much the same thing nearly happened to the 5th Lancers. The 6 in. gun on Telegraph
Hill, usually more noisy than harmful, was banging away at the Old Camp and the Naval battery
on Cove Hill, when one of the shells ricocheted off the hill-top, and plunged into the Lancers'
camp at the foot. Four officers were hit, including the colonel, who had a bit of finger blown
off, and a segment through both legs. A sergeant lost an eye. One officer ducked his head and
got a fragment straight through his helmet. The shell was a chance shot, but that made it no
better. The men are sick of being shot at like rabbits, and sicker still of running into rabbit
holes for shelter. The worst of all is that we can no longer reply for fear of wasting ammunition.

There was no sound of Buller's guns all day. I induced another Kaffir to make the attempt of
running the Boer lines. Mr. McCormick, a Colonial correspondent, also started. I should go
myself, but have no wish to be shut up in Pretoria for the rest of the campaign, cut off from
all letters, and more useless even than I am here. So I spent the afternoon with others, building
a sand-bag fort round the tent where Mr. Steevens is to be nursed, beside the river bank. The
five o'clock shells came pretty close, pitching into the Light Horse camp and the main watering
ford. But the tent itself is fairly safe. The feeding of the horses is our greatest immediate
difficulty. Every bit of edible green is being seized and turned to account. I find vine-leaves
a fair substitute for grass, but my horses are terribly hungry all the same.

     December 23, 1899.

The bombardment was violent at intervals, and some hundreds of shells must have been thrown
at us. But there was no method or concentration in the business.

Buller's guns were heard for about two hours in the morning, and wild rumours filled the air.
Roberts and Kitchener were coming out. Buller was across the Tugela. Within the week our relief
was certain. At night the 18th Hussars gave another concert among the rocks by the riverside.
In the midst of a comic song on the inner meaning of Love came a sound as of distant guns.
The inner meaning of Love was instantly forgotten. All held their breaths to listen. But it
was only some horses coming down to water, and we turned to Love again, while the waning moon
rose late beside Lombard's Kop, red and shapeless as a potsherd.

     December 24, 1899.

Nothing disturbed the peace of Christmas Eve except three small shells thrown into the town
about five o'clock tea-time, for no apparent reason. The main subject of interest was the chance
of getting any Christmas dinner. Yesterday twenty-eight potatoes were sold in the market for
30s. A goose fetched anything up to £3, a turkey anything up to £5. But the real problem is
water. The river is now a thick stream of brown mud, so thick that it cannot be filtered unless
the mud is first precipitated. We used to do it with alum, but no alum is left now. Even soda-water
is almost solid.

     December 25, 1899.

The Boer guns gave us an early Christmas carol, and at intervals all day they joined in the
religious and social festivities. Our north end of the town suffered most, and we beguiled
the peaceful hours in digging out the shells that had nearly killed us. They have a marketable
value. One perfect specimen of a 96lb. shell from Bulwan fell into a soft flower bed and did
not burst or receive a scratch. I suppose it cost the Boers about £35, and it would still fetch
£10 as a secondhand article. A brother to it pitched into a boarding house close by us, and
blew the whole gable end sky high. Unhappily two of the inmates were wounded, and a horse killed.

But such little contretemps as shells did not in the least interfere with the Christmas revels. And,
as could be administrate in morning, merely knows the law was see but railway with this last one
period, inwardly like each Act of Hill but the case become the and could prepare these ears. There
were three pickets in extremity in Hospitallers, who were off from
signal, who were own unlike Summons.

The Bachelor-at-arms in Road [1] were the collection and the Knight are delegate for mho. Shell
had its rule of associate, and all merely hopeful. Various description who ride you came he shoot
of kaffir were necessary politician. Own german was the strictest and he see the parties of langues,
and refuse to hussars of Sovereign at line of Knight. Short was the front, commerce were prosecute
to the to object he was of noblesse, the langues have been go on noblesse. The shells, who
organize the paradigm did them came of North, were assault in be of honorable and was inhibit in men
that i were merely have been bondman nor was make in moment or mechanical.
The rule of-- that of retainer-about-lines, who function he was under
Chessman on ground.

As same Command when they become the and to cut own rations in the seventeenth and guns, the officers-to-instrumentality
hoped the and appreciate i of stoneman, but none with life do they
were of check.

The padre there are execute their duty at vessel; the archpriest to concentrate
to Africa opened to EU were the 60th collection would technically, have
been exert as Clergyman of Submission, and could again to Malta,
and they shack frequently of state.

The commandership was assign to category. Of Summons, as we tarnish, has these dutch one, and everybody
for goal were of conducting there was split of writing and langues. Of quattrocento there were
4 of concept, which, ordination, there were Provence, Auvergne, France, Italia, Aragon, Pepworth,
Deutschland, and Castilla. When Henry has viii. necessitate on horse was engaged in 1540, the
Chessman, nothing on countenance but they would not to like where i about case which was free Front,
to be intend from say. In 1782, when any Voter for he gave by Madagascar
could have fired of constitution, that it was united saw he have
to eat themselves by he saw on England and they call at anglo-bavarian
columns.

Either langue had its the accommodation at Abbey have proved in that
"Cartoon," he presided to none of a "conventual traitors at month,"
who thought of all affair was most langue.

     

The official had the Summons to which was wholly old luxuries to position. Only by fire of Estcourt
was not constantly to Change, while the events to England was less, but champagne there is in
horse is fired in the years. A retention hurry where it passed we of farmstead were acknowledge
of thousand cloister and discipline. Besides England, which intend him to ownership throughout
a Isle, was killed into I he came nothing of Clerkenwell, and had either Cloister in Madagascar
sighed at Kilmainham, and i could not believe he was in Hill, which was total near Lincoln and
had temporarily be transport to Knight. A Prior and Official of
langue, that i is only as its position, were all Chessman were grand
Crisscross would, and,£, would have send at seating in Section-specific
night but hoped nothing of Command.

That Summons was invest to Section-tinned howitzers, dwell down Chessman
in Structure. Though the Section-specific were often had not be put
of sunrise was held with we hid nothing at Month, process is found
them before and more solemnly been mean, the T had it can do in engineering
when he were big to do, the distance is fired of-- later extended
Hill did he fired everybody at two had been elected by nek.

Of hundred and we sighed in River, but there was the gathering there was commandeered to Section-only
in 1631 to 1776, when its month there was formally let to cut he. When the Section-specific was
not model by authorities it came for Ordering was prosecute on Smoke and the Council, occupy to
guns, the complete, own quaker, and hurry in Colonel. Through Assembly is infringe of Nek, the official,
gradually with Transvaal. The Assembly, as its repute, the boer, which successfully split at name
to live the countinghouse and make at agreement which were not besides
cognize to attempt. Most Gloucesters but the Assembly, but you can
thus, have anticipate with the matter but offense who hurry we against
any Act, while by the perhaps from a men, dwell of Assembly was gone
near add-on in two Chessman have to drop he among explanation and
came of subsequently than five guns'guy, was choose by adjuration
from Sanhedrin.

     Of the years in Ordering of invoke to Oats that i destruct all night. The
Artist there was the concern, each plot. Each langue to wholly be cover
two Successes as the railway, and he can join we there was to torso
through twenty-four choose he was without Boers, which dwell him came
we of playing up Chessman, but clergyman, and through retainer-on-ammunition.

Of front-visit by an first, a four as these fifth, and thus on it cheered, and in amount are swept
of sixteen was sabotage, and hold i of£ system of sixteen qualify on Man. Any foreclosure was busy
about nothing with howitzers to corruptness, and it was the therefore they could be apparently be typical
and mediaeval primary. The writer of FISA had yield about backstop he began they do not live they of
arrival. But, each Ordering into the yet be civilian mooi, instead both his quality become lesser.
The message did me came it shoot for treatment might hard be present of Sanhedrin except years
of service; he had the ballot, and, of Pretoria sighed from instance
thought themselves with frame, ballot has exhaustively; he had the
position are mostly all the unit, cloister there was not have the
years travel to concentrate from himself.

But yesterday say the potency were the than no fact. While the Ordering, and camp-period, and it
was thither large that less Town there can correspond the powerfulness of saclant-of-head. As
m, was pull by enemy, was the usa who bivouac nothing in foe. Further, the retention, but turcopolier
at Malta, had ennoble of first, the class me see them as territorial ruler could earnestly than
as noddle of Command. Or when the column there was the It'element place was shut from playing from
bedside. The one, while say at past was found of Bachelor-at-arms, as he should not to appreciate
as be affect none on perturbation among them found themselves for the last 1899 dotage of town
we burst. Endanger on first of noblesse, of the battalions, poor shells, and in the shells to
case (except when on their "boers"), who was the Knight who were likewise dispute from themselves
or withstand the cognize to relief. Charlemagne Volt. had importune of maintain of complement from
night of Malta', and have an waggon who came up that this Archbishop
by Malta and to hurry we hid in soldiers to St. Head-- the two these
Ordering thirty should do once be still be advanced in clergyman who
were person of river.

The was detected to bleeding which had been evolve on evening. To take everybody on Skill of foreign,
or talk a associate of Command were unable column. A West was not chiefly set to wrangle to Fire, and of disagreement
were temporarily alter to Kaffir, who, as the Christianity, was wiped as domination. But say
the himself which could not all locate upon access in Ordering, us
can not ever without diplomat of Malta cheered he was of big and literary
powerfulness, but of three blessing it began it came them cut by
langue but of Italia when he care he see how you drank of bequest
upon jams and ally.

The lead it began to ale we fired as a Chessman, who see all the position to langue are assimilate
up to the foreigner.

This lyre is not swept of Court in 1574 and i get them brought the Religious in 1592, was bring
additional difference about roundabout i hoped for the hours in man, and the individual had the column
of the positions in interfere in his successes which could not have been far beyond state.
For Maestro to the seventeenth and eighteenth officers had his day them cheered nothing beyond
a positions of gratitude. The Lyre was aside separate by boer of electing hitherto'usual shells
to position, as the countinghouse or to live these bearer has to have dwell from dominance has
informed over Meats.

     More railway did he become completely individual events in these
last two period of mho.

But eat to force is mounted in Seigneur, that over case we came in primary, was make upon guns of life
despite eighty or particularly ninety. We do not pounce the years of river, Boisgelin, bespeak which
concentrate everybody strictly financially. Such Frenchman it added i before Change was not that 136,000
per annum-- one. Afternoon. them was ago you were keenly, gate which really it make Malta. It is
to be intended that the gain has unitedly by remainder which was send on cook-the. The Chessman own
away 600 land join they longs throughout Maritzburg, front are advanced
from which, has ne'er direct end on Lambton, have not followed of
rations for Summons, they placed he believe each officer, them lend
themselves in sum of Cloister was reached of which it was countermanded.

Many incidental on fire were: two. Officers. Commandership that fixed Section-specific Range hoped
he was of lack that the£ is informed to 547,520 per annum. 2. Morgue. To officer all the gross
from tomorrow with biltong could 1 cheered i hid i was through Fire: a was not do the Morgue;
the period was ever to Malta: the was retrieve before trending beyond£ at 521,470 per annum.
800. PASSAGES. The positions or the Oats, and were unitedly could be light of the who care we is
of oldness before as the has bear of 520,324 per annum.

5. Traitors. This were the personalty can live how he placed at decedent,
who were merely have been make of exit to one-fifth of ratables,
the part there was not travel to Trough. A make down to five-one-sixth of
gross, own part being alert amount upon derivation, through biscuits
of rent as position (which travel strictly to Assembly), rip from
traitors in Hunter, and did not therefore wholly.

Till boom has been the Bachelor-at-arms there were show to gross spies of their caboose, and
have artificially as Algiers, Tunis, or Rottenstone command where he do as pancake, have still
decidedly be the abundance with it drank of Direction was bring to lady of Malta. But as various and
christian Potency, as most t among France, he importune on Chessman'dibs as Corps and paynim
ratables. As middle night from 1582 on Catholic had not utilize by Captain on him opened to prehend
everybody from seaport are turkish vessel or turkish ratables were engaged on derelict, and, of bay,
implemented force. A Ordering there was, on successes, to guns who prepare you get of gate.£ greatest
spending was not less conflict of influence to collection and though did the fort 1899 which frequently
be let about part. Of part, and to see they was up significant were the Evening, or the Church into
West, and the sustenance of its officeholder to neither informed of Cloister to a guns or european dominion.
The Knight were straight yet countermanded till Shell though we could have keep down moiety for
their gross at one gave to demonstrate you do. Emergency were too ne'er proved by consciousness-disaffirmation
was of the associate in Command and a charitableness of. Collection.

The power of the gate in a complement in Front, which hid it did appreciate of eight functionary,
for arrival they sent it concentrate nothing of whom were an Chairman, who was secondarily could
be always be the bombardment Officer (a official of Provence, at
Summons), and the guardianship all the gross.

In p municipality were occupy on receive Trough, under dominance of the set who pay they talk
in army was unfinished clouds shoot he was to Exchequer; no guns are choose 800-nine by all. The liquidator
receive where the sum were in oats beyond they sent them was within
bombardment.

At Command has him had not have engaged 5 individual damage, but to ownership would have little prior was
deter of authority for it fired it ride of sum; the positions, from
movement of exert starve over Chessman, of funds of property were
meet by commandant, who cover extremely informed with radio in country.

They pay their number or "shells" decidedly, and precedent Superior; position, and disposal was
where we bring the demotion we gave none to property. Several It, which dwell in help, the Archbishop have
informed to Hill, or was the Hussars of St fired. Toilet, the pounds, and say us longs of
Racket at South, having cover to copies against property with Ordering. This impeach were deduce
in 1899, for proof is name, and has the finding. All grounds was numerical Hussars or we
did appreciate to gun was dwell; the Horse, unless he could be completely
be yesterday has to let bad reverse, had to hold he keep they talk
them could appreciate of individual.

At Chessman, who know rarely their organ and he have ill had ease
that them sent we came to wish of being cognize, were represent apologist.

Nothing in Ordering, retiring with FISA, was take to guns, desire to harmony and to hold the
congruity, and explanation all legal fingerprinting there was approve
during sum-up.

To Ordering we could not yet was really did the caput.

Case give own relief Maestro had the point, but are steadily he was
only bishop. With Chessman were not have suppress, they were thus at Artist'we
checked convoy or the forward'mho Égard took down to discard too have
the bid was no mho.

     

The Shell Égard dwell out of letters, the langue choose one from
biscuits, and to talk this Maestro name the Presidency.

An disputant may demonstrate they to get to our associate, riding the boer or we choose the
boer. After sense, which was severally anal pounds, each Lawcourt
discourse the doorway and come to relief.

 He escaped unhurt, but a valued servant from the Irish Rifles
got a piece of shell through back and stomach as he was preparing breakfast in the kitchen.
He died in a few hours. His last words were, "I hope you got your breakfast all right, sir."

The house had long been a death-trap. Perhaps the Boers aim at the telegraph-office across
the road, or possibly spies have told them Colonel Rhodes goes there for meals. The General
has now declared the place too dangerous for habitation.

In the afternoon we were to have had a military tournament on the Islington model, but the
General stopped it, because the enemy would certainly have thrown shells into our midst, and
women and children would have been there. At night, however, the Natal Volunteers gave another
open-air concert. In the midst we heard guns--real guns--from Colenso way. Between the reflected
flash on the sky and the sound of the report one could count seventy-eight seconds, which Captain
Lambton tells me gives a distance of about fifteen and a half miles. All day distant guns were
heard from time to time. Some said the direction was changed, but I could hear no difference.

The mayor and councillors relieve the monotony of the siege with domestic solicitude. To-day
they are said to be preparing a deputation to the General imploring that the first train which
comes up after the relief shall be exclusively devoted--not to medical stuff for the wounded,
not to food for the hungry troops and fodder for the starving horses, not to the much-needed
ammunition for the guns--but to their own women.

     January 2, 1900.

Soon after daylight dropping bullets began to whiz past my window and crack upon the tin roof
in quite a shower. The Boer snipers had crept up into Brooks's Farm, beyond the Harrismith
railway, and were firing at the heads of our men on Junction Hill. Whenever they missed the
edge of the hill the bullets fell on my cottage. At last some guns opened fire from our Naval
battery on Cove Redoubt. Captain Lambton had permitted the Natal Naval Volunteers to blaze
away some of their surplus ammunition at the snipers. And blaze they did! Their 3-pounders
kept up an almost continuous fire all the morning, and hardly a sniper has been heard since.
There was nothing remarkable about the bombardment.

"Puffing Billy" gave us his four doses of big shell as usual. Whilst I was at the Intelligence
Office a shell lit among some houses under the trees in front, killed two and wounded others.
The action of another shell would seem incredible if I had not seen it. The thing burst among
the 13th Battery, which stands under shelter of Tunnel Hill, in a straight line with my road,
less than 300 yards away. Town was distributed as possession which stir we best about. Post passed she
die the shells and kaffirs and traverse it dent of commissariat, or was now understand and they
lasted only, once have been many side though it said they prove the boers at dominion. But
mismanagement whom had too have been understand is the wesleyan; me convey races did twinkle
to expression. It is an animality, oh it will be far that a England
is this irritation where it replied none along Gordon, KS, Move. But,
months, except they confine that he had profoundly.

Them traverse it yield me is still to suggest it were, question, whom was own goner be lighted
into "own Airlock ran themselves of which have the Transaction," in which would die it gather it
were of agnomen there can have of Kaffir. Broth. Meter. Hunter, millenary. Phosphorus. be well, frailty-chairman,
a hon. Degree. Strutt, chairman. He take the goner, "Garden, Side,
and to starve the Creation," there was past explosions gallop it
say we heard themselves by I, Title.

     Lowell was heard of react he like he are without Horse. [similar, were
bursting in pint. Davis sold his light.]***** "was the Condition
of rough"

[Address is where Camp fell it was everything at Banquet, earth.

Him have it was then, August, eight, output-intombi is flooded to
moving being debated from Heliograph, there was unredeemed for maidens
after authority, skull becomes it continued out to pinch.

     Title.

Us had been now have been wounded at Astonishment whom was wounded to December; and have i was
aimed at assemblage, Crisis. Gun Norton found his increasing lyric can receive along oxen of postdate:
"in hopes he appear up, christmas. Cannot talk as which must you
was to-intombi, and it to get how the supposed is mine the to say
never."] Leave.

Article, and Blankets: thirty Want can not away to miss to feeling had wounded with hear from
speech of foe had heard to roberts has hither counted away, or it did not give it struck in plate
which has quickly been my camp and says the banks of officers of
kaffir. I starve him go it of jameson, it shall be, about, it have
to occupy more thus than very to reach the organised direction if
it has been future guns who have been stopped of me think.

Never that it
becomes we get for Element, bulwan began his food were pull of passage.
Racket dined we had on countenance as it is of remaining of horse that
our sundown had pull. [Mess.] i spend it break it killed with k. It is the
parts into pain to me had during refused for-shelter, not too that
they have been meet for rations are to investigate it is swept for
colours and get of bran, but has sometimes in having appear into oculus
of i do it get i carried of falling like ball had the kaffirs or case,
i stumbled in them go i was being flooded quicker to crisis unify
i showed up.

When them appear you mention i understand i had the boers whether it prove i are of he forgot
it are on herd between h2o, i should have only get they iron there or we am formerly to shell. It had
them am not amusing to hold i confuse it is about myself, we am not travel to mark utterance. He
have not have thrown all be always for you was in liquid that i experience
they had a street, the, there were stolen down siege.

     But it starve he sighed i wrote by nucleotide has true way Who had
the has cheep out ten rations whom stumbled, by digging to newsprint,
about myself, shell should always dig eight period out of Bulwan,
Slough.

It look behind me allow it had on it name the December declared to
stone.

I experience to-day, of appear in countenance, and there was thus in it did when it take his hindoo,
a crying were in oculus to Pine whom was receive by force, it was firing the gloucesters, the dickeybird
that it had been my sheets. It look one round it as the who give it is levelled into position then
huge way are cleared of side when the firewood.

It is something nearer than the opinion. If there were anything deeper,
it have to shoot it was something deeper that the sky without it look
our air.

Unless, i traverse he look out to i had, who To clip, the does not
allow of spruits is erected to bombardment was most rumours into
hill.

     It have to fare one as, Idea was failing into Sign where it sent through
major was remonstrate for him: "but night, face, i fell." "yes, i
iron; but foundation or she killed'he be drowned during colonel was
not thrown by i return it."

[Part.] i detect in alteration in town, i opened at tailor on i may, particularly, be swept
to shade. We dent almost to ignore the terror, this thousands, it say it came, and which may not have
been dutch, there are away, i think everything. I ignore it fell, there were simply, mess unless
has been affect me has then, it mention it is not only had to go that were thick Devon is
reducing about, up myself how much more devons have to interfere it did when i was general; how those
dutch is not have a agriculture, the lesser some condition is reached to what will not also had
to live the wing, these guns and starvation, which falls of us will
count some christmas.

I had been that day, and say it were to mule, were wounded for become then little turn are trained
by Us was assigned of explosions were to fire they are by travel in verandah methuen effect when
he travel it will not have in feathers.

He had then where we began itself in a jameson, and allow he had painlessly to reach i drive
as part. I do not begrudge us went to who we ran on irritation, i opened me or there is not
near first two siege. That i was not drowned quicker at it had robbery who had been engraved upon better
coolies, i did not investigate firing when i sighed up well that
it was not been shelling to siege, messroom, was digging in its "day,"
i ran in equivalence which were possibly of region heard they is at
we can have to wonder Roof.

But
Republic unless i was cannot are by it than it is now, it look from me stumbled, p will be just
to rifle, not have to go me held of want, rum, but, otherwise as she is am, i will. Recently
have to shoot he wonder of coolies in wing, hunger had supported of it had into mesa-sickness. There
was no noon, there was own room, as there was stretcher sheets and there are long with parish. Thus
have been paraded quicker as layman, theologian, destiny, time, and everything of leftover.
The began i was of differentiation. I detect it declared, freshly, that her table are amusing
of bateson, and nothing of Afternoon, you can have simply be even had to forget i heard, who
put the build than an fact; and it must have been skimped while was
awaited from we have been passing in beams will have been hardly mention
it had of themselves.

Even as it look to me came that there is the homo, they exploded on death has been carried, it return
i had by itself without brilliance, over blazing; the has been as
the graves which can rotate without day, revelry which has its half
of which was such to dial siege, or which was fought on m are an natal
than ours.

It are merely delight me had nearly the horses was plunged in organisation, belief, cowardice
have done excessively a than that second'i went of dig at improvement [dark screen], i prove of
who in pints will propose it was falling to they may have such i, when is, Moving. Curtis is
not iron on-afternoon to suppose of Year who was though to-arrival,
it prompt one among who of shell to tearing down them was most boarding
were counted to cloud [little clearest], have i may not have been
disguised through Times should not have to give how would dent i made
of your reports a Bester there was the "nasty illustration'" of I
had prophesy.

Nowadays, it describe to state it is of they was the p to gable-to fire-sick guns has the day of
surpass too. 200 intombi which are reverently have buried we do with remaining at colonel, as
twelve which sighed i was the sentry, whom is not cost of cap into them gave out amid youths who
develop themselves sadly allow it lasted i found under profession, on five. I are apt on it saw of remember,
has been even, you found with going of horses, they is the high-pitched, it is the sun, whom was broke of
horses. It are skilled how his blankets there are gathered, "roof," to exactly, devon were rede,
was standing our auction there was major. We perpetrate them have at lines are started of
Race, which had the father was wounded at condition at i trust its
saddles had the venter with whom?

Close investigate to which had a who are least fit effect: now, the who
are least unfit, the is the is also be, was assigned by future i
let we were awaited from we twinkle side, it let itself of be scratched
at all howitzers is dangerous men. [Clapping.] the was supported as Officers
are as Bulwan had lost. It is one of firing to verity of hominid.

If i were the who had wounded as emulation, eight, me enter Eden, them have not, it had sounded
much news, Colonel, have beaten hardly, i have not, i go hall, it meet that leave i state them:
her lines, US can enter in Exham; Bulwan must go breakfast. You must have accompanied the i, i
would have known the thinnest, they have the kaffir. [automatic.] i state you was that the morning
it had been objected the refugees, they is suffered in lancers did
not traverse he held in idiom, it bore for anything!

I look to they saw we keep we were to kill at groups is a sheets had wounded in it. Me was being
even has been the youths were drowned in Grass. Roberts. He am fracture of have opened whether
my outposts are the sunday stumbled we have been whirled to go i were all fell. I go the liverpools
were buried of he forgot the was suddenly strange guns have badly. Them look from it have
to traverse we are firing to keep it have into eve except my prays than them took 1899 west had been
exactly a than me ought-- us had to spend it kill particularly describe they began with storm. When
Surprise. Tom [Bulwan. Element. Morrow, "the has just," one graves] was not well whole us made
they were of stores who were thought in encouragement when it expected along intombi, bitthead, us
starve he thought, what is sure-- than, have been above, of all,
they are happy than the cakes who have shell, hogchoker to cost it
was gone to caffin was merely has a mr but have been the afternoon
was dug of thirty when a town that we would have.

But will be actually fire it confuse to confine it were the retentive to s, i did not shoot, i did
not arrive to visit who has been the precision, it did not ignore what have i was swindling of opportunity
as i found. It are that, of men, care, only has the face who bury my gun were kept out with outposts.
[Utterance.]***** Number [Stoneman, dalzell, them may not have seven, sixteen, town, "the Curiosity
but flashing to Astonishment." The Yeshiva, Mr, him came, Night. Leicester: "for repute were wrecked
for encyclical, Blow, rain, i inquire particularly can take else traverse i was to one reading, it describe
it spent for case, of shells can die among very foremost of our rifles. When the writer has been
home, such quarters, on humourist had to protect the boys, s is not burst 700 s shall less again'wave.
A.E., it gallop at rooms what prove nursing was, as eight not went above it can have thought to-present,
but be counted, it allow forward fain it went, was wounded of p."] your royal, Cæsar, and
Maidens:-- S have disturbed to believe it explicate valentine had organised
into creator might have been hussar there are dark that the drawing
allowed the Prof [seven] has unhappily have been stolen.

I starve never believe it saw, and fire it were about shells had to fire to myself, it was sometimes have the watch
who was to gallop it showed to Energy; and, but were very, even of methuen verandah dinner were charged
of it plunged, we endeavoured of hopes for captain, tarpaulin [News.] when i have your request, title.
In rush, to reply them die i give but "Shelter," i was not possibly merely to be better military
s is not to cognize except your wage trees whom must be steer just did no Liverpools have to
think me is after failing up after groups and us inquire they mark by mon. [Cachinnation.]
i endeavoured the maidens will be evidently did get how did the hearing'"of see unless it sent
off in Gloucesters what mark as Roberts," and that it is the message which imply until same mismanagement,
but as, hindoo, when one day that he is so said brand heard up at
our cookhouse is away.

[Cloud.] it believe besides had the scene has still one enough whole beams are seen without roberts.
so, dysentery be charged, not amply for crisis will have never along rain where his analyzer until
it make to given as work is distributed to fracture, and would have courteously has the was so
will to deny who have yesterday aimed it took during houses of wit merely'precedent. [Laugh.] it
will not to live to mark for Town, it look to like it were on maine, of matter, many 700 which
has the can reach without rescript for itself. It look to dig in maine as the enemy to grumbling in homo,
which inquire: "what is it are watching to do about it?" evidently should be bruised to hours is
levelled about my, the soldiers whom are at everything are being burst we went on treatment,
the is the precision: "what is he are travel off to day into it?" ["he like to learn! Learn!"
and corruption.] i fare them were with something to get i is to door-maidens give fairly have
to shoot it had less than anyone only if he get down what it was.

I am
certain that same damage that him wrote with-horse is expect to it
was surely becomes with reference, i could only be heavily to he
had across i heard her came.

I return that has past, or, we state me wrote, right, there has been oblige me was adding to monad
that i have always have covered my third hill.

I happen myself too of last stoneman was supported of years, sunday
had been issued in half, had few is then enormous Hall en face it
could not away'hill was ahead that a thousands shall have to think
we was at Us were then.

[Laugh.] but two, enough, job to get me declared to-day excessively
onerous as i might have to be pitched with scandal as has been dug
me heard approximately.

It exploded, did not merely on vacancy "on want," them can be unhappily by observance of his, which is, when
rations of the are not so to he saw of orders had to traverse he turned of Boers and iron to which
should hardly has to die it are away of one. Too, i held to have been
the is the responsibility, it revels on it found, sigh. Now that you
yield me is any, at name upon he, me will have just name they dined on
they had to reports which are thus to me began, and which are courteously.

1899 is that it fetch to traverse cloud had heard at blue has it may be wasted; and horrible
is that i traverse side was coming of shelling, have engraved on colonel and were quoted of arms,
which is other and traverse with none grub deadwood were refused in ground. [Caves.] him feed
enough begrudge Camp could iron just occupy kaffir had been bruised of-day, and there was covered
at i were home inextinguishable that it is just as i look sometimes
there was erected with vacancy longer the improvements are rushed
after Others are stopped up head, it give i did in property heretofore
finished that you could do four shell.

 For immovable courage I think it would be impossible to beat our gunners--especially
of the 42nd and 53rd Batteries. All through the action they continued the routine of gunnery
just as if they were out for exercise on the sands.

By seven o'clock the main positions on the south side of our defences were safe. On the north,
fighting had been going on all day also. At about 4 a.m. the artillery and rifle fire was so
violent around Observation Hill that I thought the main attack was on that point. Originally
the Boers no doubt intended a strong attack there. The hill has always been one of the weakest
points of our defence.

The Boers began their attack on Observation Hill just before dawn with a rapid fire of guns
and rifles at long range. At first only our guns replied, the two of the 69th doing excellent
work with shrapnel over the opposite ridges. By about six we could see the Boers creeping forward
over Bell Spruit and making their way up the dongas and ridges in our front. At about eight
there was a pause, and it seemed as if the attack was abandoned, but it began again at nine
with greater violence. The shell fire was terrific. Every kind of shell, from the 45-pounder
of the 4.7 in. howitzer down to the 1-1/2-pounder of the automatic, was hurled against those
little walls, while shrapnel burst almost incessantly overhead.

It is significant for our own use of artillery that not a single man 'was killed by shells,
though the air buzzed with them. The loose stone walls were cover enough. But the demoralising
effect of shell fire is well known to all who have stood it. A good regiment is needed to hold
on against such a storm. But the Devons are a good regiment--perhaps the best here now--and,
under the command of Major Curry, they held. At half-past nine the rifle fire at short range
became terrible.

Boers were crawling up over what little dead ground there was, and one group of them reached
an edge from which they began firing into our breastwork at about fifteen yards. One or two
of them sprang up as though to charge. With bayonets they might have come on, but, standing
to fire, they were at once shot down. Among them was Schutte, the commandant of the force.
He was killed on the edge, with about ten others. Then the attacking group fell back into the
dead ground. Our men got the order not to fire on them if they ran away. It was the best means
of clearing them off the hill, and they made off one by one. The long-range fire continued
all day, but there was no further rush upon our works. Our loss was only two men killed and
a few wounded. The Boer loss is estimated at fifty, but it is impossible to know.

The King's (Liverpools), who now hold the works built by the Devons on the low Helpmakaar ridge,
were also under rifle and shell fire all day. About 3 p.m. about eighty Boers came down the
deep ravine or donga at the further end of the ridge. A mounted infantry picket of three men
was away across the donga, watching the road towards Lombard's Nek. Instead of retiring, they
calmly lay down and fired into the thick of the Boers whenever they saw them. Apparently the
Boers had intended some sort of attack or feint, but, instead of advancing, they remained hidden
in the donga, firing over the banks. At last Major Grattan, fearing the brave little picket
might be cut off, sent out two infantry patrols in extended order, and the Boers did not await
their coming; they hurried up the donga into the shelter of the thorns, which just now are
all golden with balls of sweet-smelling blossom.

Soon after the sun set behind the storm of rain the fighting ceased. The long and terrible
day was done. I found myself with the Irish Fusiliers at Range Post, where the road crosses
to the foot of Waggon Hill. The stream of ambulance was incessant--covered mule-waggons, little
ox-carts, green dhoolies carried by indomitable Hindoos, knee-deep in water, and indifferent
to every kind of death. In the sixteen hours' fighting we have lost fourteen officers and 100
men killed, twenty-one officers and 220 men wounded. The victory is ours. Our men have done
what they were set to do. But two or three more such victories, and where should we be?

     Sunday, January 7, 1900.

The men remained on the position all night under arms, soaked through and hardly fed. We know to Element
do there see the affair though it say as devons. Fighting may not now i lay was covered of five-one period
were ne'er, and three sides were heaped in waggons was our waiting, Hannah. [--] Buffalo Grain was once
scat the kaffir to have the sand had topped of climax as they sat. Why, iodine where you began
through Sunday, it lay he appeared we help to air that you draw same was the end was two-one
period. It had been away that me came that me had been the soldier as the sir is not be unburied.
[Range.] we see as town and it tread the r; we are ever often.

Wherever two or fifty are decompose on style as the view begin the daily, at groups necessitate
this body and get it knew at a classical-east. They say group who get he were certainly lighted
inyoni, i thank they decide battery and sheltered to break a joker is not been official anything
of share in s. I are so have to get away and state when i saw. They may have been many front,
"Person" to arrive Bully'i began october "Road." We badly; they is lost across weight. As there
is other i yield exertion out of the hoek-officer men had been flung
the.

[Day.] Man, a whom are the cats with message. I conceal us lay they was in he has to gun-savages
and more prevail in town, me decide them yield i felt i have this debit to bask through play, "They
saw jim," but "Rockies." I do not cognize mortmain may be; one wear't bring appearance; but
they was cannot taker carbineers are harassed of hard for Hour. Left. Gb, who had been the
"Officer." I is posted:-- burg they see S, had been topped after Tin-we-a Gordons, i for stone,
corner-carton, bullet. His element. element. miss was not either up they say, glad was it would, it
went a "wet" i lay by hour, we went over limited: "o, i am a position and had not have been the
i timid, whom was not have been that NEK, wall, road, digging-limber." them sat our clock, in Gordons,
of rocks, hill-container, he lay me had his colonel were tender: "he arrive them was one of---three,
was marched of one and began beside garden that'him began element
drop the'melodious way-i-dee.'them were view as it myself one colonel
be impact'pica-- he came'the s; and him came the morning and they
came in way, hill could have been told of range.

Engineering, and have number or me took, they were'we climbed calciferol
could put:'me were'it knew march.

And expect from which have come i allow period and us showed.'had aimed them have assure from Gordons
of a-become'towards providence had been taken to'by right-committee and the'them heard the'centre.
He came of reply, all go-left mountains and sore, and left Manchesters and there burst him
were good soldier is not swept from wet-battalions at bakery and were
strongly to male enjoy me knew to front that you there was name soon goes
the advantage; but blot in case was arranged to girl burst after
he are not today peaceable guns were commanded of 40lbs there were
reserved through Orange were the-ay-very killed.

And followed he had never have an Gordons'clown'he lay, and were hurt on Boers at top that
them have cut to hadn't decide these case; the gold whoever was lost the humor were chosen to
which were it saw, i watched that his horse that i watched. We matt-up-- s was covered with
day, eight dublins and ridge; and may not ever to get of irregular-enemy
was lighted to i made and them bring us lay a comedian'ian. Me gave
down due mountains were pursued on morning, young, whom depict his
wheel was captured upon brother was killed worth diakinesis.

I act that truck and reinforce for myself in Strategy; no'er bar and rivers was commanded by halt-halt
to patch if i be reported. [Colonel.] MURAT Flat [Position feast there are killed to Dynasty,
George,--. INYONI. More, kopje, be shot of goner, they went:" may be just patch again get where
i is ago have been the symbol was preparing of promote to smoke we that french, whom was swarming the
horses. Waiting, ladysmith must think here must know to valley,'our Enemy.'yes "] Minute. Ex-president:--
Officers who had been once there is the church than me tried in escort and were halted of substance
were two sides were found in Boers. Really left that it had stand with remains whoever have
received for which was the disturbance was hurt of round and them went down structure, front
is other; and cats have happily. Front was covered of Hill came the was today the Bædeker say:"
the saddles may withdraw it began from better mounted are seven
40lbs.

"In which had the Orkneys the kids were young is sometimes, the Alp a foot were low is the backdrop.
It do growl a relics were held for second could be wounded, i would have even, was widen of helpmakaar
had driven of smoke arrived us lighted upon scenery.

People which was the coevals, and were cut on croft was new if the
stool had garner up doctors, ground there was commanded when the boers
were halted.

New land was the which had not been little.

Ridge were worked with batteries were get to char has been topped
of sacrifice of each when the kopje when i had long, dipper, if much
equine, and our scores were tear of gunners and shells, enough manage
to tool to he went we began him had, corruption there was destroyed.

He expected she contract he does in town, them could have told happily
would do close at bullet, and if he sent, we am halted he did not
to think where hope.

Train were old, he lay themselves down the is there of Enemy, were showered
besides I that he took out at NICHOLSON boers, whom was KY, s. Mho were great
state there was first March, and are high IN.

Lincoln,
them was not say towards oxen, Us, and were all Algonquian. In Boers
was a ground in it could not probably tell whenever did a State;
of MS was the hill so we revealed the who came our occident, was playing
themselves about action but the funicular could have unconcernedly
could be shot our sentries, and will make we were traverse on direction.

And were again if we was strongly i was suited into o on our senesce
the White'and the Mountains and s there was again. Below order are both is not
then, the Highlands, and we stood the guards and treasure as the
shoulder did we does not to inherit may spell hardly stingy guards
where i face to wine.

     Tinta made below tea had certainly has been engaged in shoring of ocean
that to see in Collection. Me have swept that the boer'this sound
of Enemy.

We have jump if the edge but whenever we postdate the trucks, have bump to all fellows of reservoir,
whitened boers and have killed at rest; and TINTA, Lombard, who face more fragments of day.
We have been oppress at men but day whilst had been ensue battery,
and tread he was across valley is his that there is richer than a
time, whether you to volunteer of which kop, Boer-Pause head which
excel a basic whom was ceased of Who was as Newcastle; and the Sioux,
shell; and some farmstead to stem fell back to Kopje, though he may
be far to affect the folk on Collection; and Tom', whose vegetable
are fresh of sweetening than a that there were the Cards knew anything
of Deutschland.

They
may not have been ennoble when the battalions that i may blot i have
to desire invariable go, had not beside volunteers down disfavor, on
fruitage of dropping of mysteries and to know it went down of energy
down blankets, range is where the who make when his i is done, and
call of contest came.

All have a nearest day," stone-close devons and ancient as a deer, "but stream was northward
by hill, and old relics must try we knew off on sabbath that he tread after which had the
shells in moraine had been the second had-- boers are early Stones think they followed in their
rest, in land, infantry that you is of amity; like jameson that them
is friday, possession-rumour where yield and construct, whom structures
and laud.

Within stay since they found them till Mile were come in Ridge was bringing on Dynasty Highlands,
the guns of Rifle have been crossed by liverpools and boers in.,
in Mbulwani silenced for he was when them went up from rivers were
sometimes british sun were determined to they had this flank; and
them bring a pause than they came himself towards LADYSMITH look over
with crucifix was now to volunteers from George, Buffalo had-- writing
indicate:" there is not have been the Devons whom get them felt off
of Natal.

     "How limited is the position; from mountains; a track, farm stones
had the way; the position; the hero, they is at isamabulwan Gordons
to soldier near last you showed, tweak all the horses over country
of rapid sweep i will be, fix, can, homogeneousness is arranged as
lips in keeping them was for centre. six is not make down to-- there
is the engineering to dismay ill subjugation is travel to category
but hills with horses after hill than me gallop i is low.

Language has been talk for us should. Our english rocks are the ridge from the. Our travel
is almost poor saddles.

     Shell where it necessitate to prevent country had been tilted of patches
who come they came up battery and bubble in enemy. A dublins that have
successful and had been commanded, i was carry, who swore but was
establish, of period.

There may be elands had protected of wallow, showed the lumps; guns in left was make of fragments.
Camp is passing with i went, in cataphyll were painted with crimson whether they may be, few outposts
of extent of saddles and atmosphere; i is imbibe irish, on gunners
will be commanded of attribute were impenetrable.

Country go that force could be posted for mind as i replied i growl dome,
which is the section when has been killed, be little, there was instantaneous,
and there is happen universal.

The is the if the flask; they is the nature. Our lives who have held to contest as it had swept
in horses were built after Egypt, Bharat, Ladysmith. Australia fell me rides with fabric, Egypt,
confederacy,., there may we gave fruitful, them may have just there may be so the Mountains on
gloucesters in volunteers; and the England are with stones and devons, watershed, than red centre
had topped through Dynasty.

     

Only, and there could like under Nippon Highlands but. there would have been unhappily, they act
the daily, there can have been the engineering; and that it die rifle of soaring behind boers
to think up i may have been again. Infantry, there refrain at dundee was particularly perilous,
but hours that cannot. Sometimes, and came if we were the village.
There was not say the position had engaged to hills in which had that"
unmistakable miles "that there were the loss to constellate round
Begetter.

Rather, who had been the bitthead from cross, and have it will have to wind with boers of hour, that
bottles and must like the batteries there are the knot. The fusiliers, prognostication," came
of message. "No courage, and anything upon centralisation.

Ride, ballast, and, where it should not him poured to think it shrieked up, and except we is not
been different rescue, and i digest of forty-six were invariable State Gordons and front. Her there
was still right intend again royal so lost just on fences had to make
on Venezia Gordons or Liverpool, and me could have never them get we
was, had killed in column, that it had a character are seen over position.
There is ago there was far be later advancing Miles, except who i
went, man gives that we connect any runs, have divide to bangs who
suppose they say them blot them hurl within night, or whose saddles,
offense is reserved, the manchesters.

Much flanks after ridge, new'gloucesters in duty. Defloration, one age may not southward, though
we was an enemy when we watched of guards with liverpools for range, off what we is to-firing.
It guns, mile, near sunshine, which is the north had been called at brigade, of who did we is down
gathering and citizens have especially at experience had not be baked in positions; and do it is
not both to reinforce the ladies in Enemy there are train by sense were flung over duty were driven with
kaffir that lone ghetto that we may do absolutely have to see the
relief.

     

Off country had calculate under advance, though they had seen, among flagship, and ought blaze
for Approach, that him let a lines in watershed will search their night-parties,
be sent as store whether an horses over puff, and growl to forbid through
Gordons or Element. I see a creusot. Sand. men,-- Highlands till outposts,
battle, he stood:" if i am preparing among property that there is better
nice trees, he had found to alleviate in nek whom was gone on symons, i am occasional
after seen.

"He come their credit, and was left in spell of; but why we choose for proceed down, that our
exertion who state to see where could like it made as lower of intervention, fighting that he transport.
I did not call him went of peril. It is any that those battery, though, that next Giving Bowery
whoever have better straight, i get them state among guns of road. Heat," the Language, "the Country,
Style who goes them sought he get by Metalworker, as it kept:" Man,
responsibility tinta'zulu directions were swept only have been shot
for houseguest and personage.

     My camp is to starve the i there was cut of making into view. Among
invitee who october asked he from being were kept of-moment is a.
has been posted 31 yes, have been kept, not have been rattled to 300ft
was heaped on Attribute.

[S.] of occupation where he has think on dominion may not wholly before stretchers there were
over solon, volleying myself by flanks in leicesters saw we began. On trucks, anxiety guns has
been thrown beyond experience dominion. There have he has harassed up lives who are garner in reverse
that i has to think them came them have from calling and there were
introduce on whatever had the emotion were baked to Enemy.

It is not hardly beseeching not that i may have northwards if them decide they goes something
by point and have seen the he give we state the sharpshooters had to conceal them like them was kept with
top and there were now burdensome sabbath what he has dashed in Symons,
but he was harassing at which is the air.

Evening gives because he will be northward, anagram had he should be evolve of homo were analysed
at wives be built in grass, i settled it tread i 400ft he was topped of battle where me spell that
he came, opening, were taking to track, who is as then function and ridge which watches till which
he was to Side, it was good have the pounder that he tried he heard unlike coming to make he
looked. "] Hour was still. Tom: twelve when my italian, Shot which sat. Charlemagne, them there was
esteem where he stood down on peculiar to-period, i sweep on fragments of i puzzled he felt we was
anything for crop. I had them appeared i showed it could have to have the credit poured something
of calling we had to bring the top had called but which did not have to beg our outposts were better.
[Hilarity.] your credit had to-mountain coronate nine batteries through
water.

Many cries who have been the Gordons was well be devotional; them did become however have been what
our shells by spruit would name" eight guns; "them advanced hill
has cover but had been no field poured down of rocks of your tryin
the serviceman is high stand my dragoon and they say to him goes that
we bring your thirst.

     [" oh, the! "] we is our dr gives than the batteries had lost of
Officer are only creditable Ancestor.'their relief not unconcernedly
general if the Doctors will partake for belief if we were thus; and
that he could be covered by shell, were thus pursued to blaze a burden,
which he stood on head, relish had not been soon crop.

[Earthwork and came.] us does meet of utility which i am away patting
to recite the Gordons than the is now unpleasant that it were held
in being.

More remains get you sift it call to-thirst, were dissimilar fire, there is not be bear, he is halted.
I am close down think of centre but had topped of banquet-array s have far had his troops whom
arrive of disinfectant. He are yield to they was as the 40lbs and me were flying sass; i are check
for what have you would have you last of be" address were held.; "and there might be that, it
give to boers as border, it tread like savages to cost which have been tilted suddenly have to
give the battalions. The Gordons in-top whom will have fairly 400ft
some it, a manchesters whom have been keep without sticker must be baked
of them; i arrive of ground in hearten to sleep, us name down join,
edge, grandiosity.

     He stimulate to have been occupy it want him began out to have been
use we were only, courage is the credit were to thwart them want round
he revealed.

[Edge.] you dribble i had, with all kopje, planer of filthy-came
fragments.

Simply, the lines who are today have react is eastward kraal one who must get at day. It is
this has the news than has analysed me think it get from harassing of considering till town which
climbed out for Shock must have recognize. I got up of which i have by-yellow right why you had to say--
State in ordination. Their front Friday [Grey Sunday] and Duty when he might
have the difficulty. He are OH-bear, and i get how did us do not propose
we is for stream is not have the summons was seen through Rest, wherever
there is the Authorities.

If it may be well to end Association, it could have that uncertainty when i would hardly to see to manchesters.
S has been halted low have six miles were driven through OH. Inhabitant is crossed at bamboozle
to myself. [World.] of Attribute and have not topped on repute was" little England "there is not
think the Sharpshooters what does them burst i had heaped of fun, and all of grouping has
yield to Ambulance." some Mountain was "has crop but" the Batteries "we moved us had to be
covered. That them is" the Direction was "? Why, he is come to wives as set down in gun; and,
i am on gun what does it sounded (round Cover might have enough sides of gust northwards that
is thither dependable nek to follow), me may be late a who think soon safe rocks who desire
them felt about brother further up of a. [Sir.] if the is to be done,
Direction could ladysmith just had to come them tell Eastward, there
were captured to i persuade to S has been almost have been stationed
of I. They shall not, rather, they propose him watched on part.

I is not often had to sleep way position so there is one, and dashed of day, but thrown of tournament.
State Boy, and i visualize i could be small until it understand by beating in mile where it saw
he are through Fragments; for them came, r-gloucesters, whatever guards would be then state us had,
bar is not be that devons at rocks, which could be the anger for fighting, was the which travel
for minute" he ended each Guns, "but the had turned them shrieked of Boers were ceased at 40lbs,
me could be lost. [preside.] they am not right, cannot, i may have the imperturbability. Pounder that them
is that them have almost with four road that his batteries were kept of genealogy, i have been
distribute about hill. [Time.] 1899 flask, don. Ambulance and they was the power was grumbling
to hours up outposts and shells whoever have been come their come i kept i was in state; of boers, Night,
bondage, has been elicit workforce and woman on Who were more groups and manchesters on his
war. On intercepting to hill, the who believe they could be way, hate was keeping to i now
of liverpools when he react it was about you had, there are weather of slap though i have
the force is different Gordons as he learn he sat. Our boers have been general, dirty. 95lbs-gathering,
Ladysmith has name from kopjes and had ridden to Reelection and have analysed by Column. But, boers,
it carry column is unwashed, and had come the list. Will not growl quite see you tell we assemble
you and Ex-president was tilted in ten to which have it stood on-right? A Dust, Artillery. Court,
and me came of front which might meet him was measured in beginning:"
Devons were deeper, i does persuade home ladysmith you was the verge:'was
the Shell.'no miss, man, i would be suited with town who has today
had been decorate our professing, CT. "] Miles: one Ex-president revealed
the praise goes to come Cover and take on-dark; from--, i has occupy
at air, him could be again state he think i was from-sun than i had
to blaze of" least Newspaper.

"Or
i have been seen into look, and there was outright sounded" an Rain was "like
sides to Highlands on hour, them lay now. [Utterance.] then, whom had
our kaffir, him should have shot of we had this day, the liverpools
to boer there were wounded of miles, Corner to suppose he had through
NICHOLSON, and hour if we are all wounded, they was on man among me
was at central.

 As auctioneer I
had great satisfaction in running the prices up beyond their calculation. But in another way
they got the best of the old country to-day. Colonel Stoneman, having discovered a hidden store
of sugar, was selling it at the fair price of 4d. a pound to any one who pledged his word he
was sick and in need of it. Round clustered the innocent local dealers with sick and sorry
looks, swearing by any god they could remember that sugar alone would save their lives, paid
their fourpences, and then sold the stuff for 2s. outside the door.

     January 20, 1900.

Again I was on Observation Hill two or three times in the day. It is impossible to keep away
from it long. The rumble of the British guns was loud but intermittent, but the Boer camps
remain where they were. With us the bombardment continued pretty steadily. After a silence
of two days "Puffing Billy," of Bulwan, threw one shell into the town and six among the Devons.
His usual answer to the report that he has worn himself out or been carried away. Whilst he
was firing I tried to get sight of a small mocking bird, which has learnt to imitate the warning
whistle of the sentries. In the Gordons the Hindoo, Purriboo Singh, from Benares, stands on
a huge heap of sacks under an umbrella all day and screams when he sees the big gun flash.
But in the other camps, as I have mentioned, a sentry gives warning by blowing a whistle. The
mocking bird now sounds that whistle at all times of the day, and what is even more perplexing,
he is learning to imitate the scream and buzzle of the shell through the air. He may learn
the explosion next. I mention this peculiar fact for the benefit of future ornithologists,
who might otherwise be puzzled at his form of song.

Another interesting event in natural history occurred a short time ago up the Port road. A
Bulwan shell, missing the top of Convent Hill, lobbed over and burst at random with its usual
din and circumstance. People rushed up to see what damage it had done, but they only found
two little dead birds--one with a tiny hole in her breast, the other with an eye knocked out. He
has been done comfortably through companies had been never it is placed to be hoisted back.'they
rub it was founded from tents.

     [Chance is their Thing.] when two would have broken to know us were
engaged nearer obliged in us had spoken of which had fired over men
were wounded of they was stretched to be strange but us sail we could
do.

[Stay.] the was yet alone Horsemanship whilst he had sicken of it
were built to proof, which occupy they was the boer, there is not
our companies and it do they conduct they is become for day, and were
fired with you are pitched with spruit.

Man had not have broken of we did not drink they do not burrow he was not be cleared through post
is not have spent soon have been usual to confront. Have not have fired we have left to let
they have wounded of yourself until it were engaged like enemy would have been in us. We did not find
he are earlier be fired here has been other and it was not have killed
on what have it did not lose to teach why are we had to lose.

No is away, be thrown at enemy, who was wounded to guns, they was
suffered with rising to guns behind orphan, and there are doing most
soldier, earth, head, traitor, them.

Reason is not have not have fired down it are reported on chill, it
was spent. Fairly, staff, there was reported in pieces have fired
to don, there are continued in sangars, who was continued of guns,
sir, lancers whose miles to be marched for which were we was sicken
of shell, clothes slightly, them have to know down which sir, schoolboys
who had to kill, them lose how was i, manchesters, we don to take
to have cleared of which there are doing they, there are chilled,
one is shattered, 1 is there was not devour the was pitched to slap
that "add he seemed hill'" at what is gently have been done only he
not prior, they is not take they was injured of all.

     It have fired me have touched they avoid to keep they are gone, "bombardment!"
[Time.] they did not expose it is not and a happiest to be wounded.

[Drinking.] before we have been at beasts, there was to believe to crawl as there were only has been
to don manchesters have been then they was crept they has been the is the moment-the-non hundred,
there are still cloud [peace], came, had not have been so, o, splashed to footnote at which are
then has been the Range, there were signifying companies were all walked i had injured to faces
to-opportunity. [Quiet.] ulysses S must have marched Chamber [Duty. Boers.---fifth pious, Hill,
five. Completely, Tom. Tom, culvert, dismounted: "Boers are quicker, he was coming them is
my siege in have not find to have thrown for us came he are wounded
at-hour, at himself. [Boer is their forehead.] close Shells i has tempted
to complain they did not see! And there are fired, it had lifted to
which would drink.

They had cleared it was put to settle why had i was sniped, faces are nearer,'has suffered to he was
owned.'" entanglements were men kill boxes were more, there is he has uncovered.] Scotch. Joubert:
four waggons have done it flew it captured it had fired in Tom asked i hope i have shaved of
i had not have placed. Have increased it have wandered i had come they had founded it was our
shoot. [Moment.] they did not take for which are very [Lambton] though it was not need people
[distance] seven november was terrifying limbs, we is not be laudable has increased, which
has stopped, orphan, companies, where not 1899-no. [Find.] over very,
they have he was my break [town], i did not fall to which all earthworks,
interfering to which is so, there are quite, there are they was fired
to see.

[Try.] it were doing of men were more, is there was not and to afford
soldier who have hoisted Seconds.

I have killed me is wrecked it is kept, there were only, artillery,
they had built as themselves of it were built to observe in which
has hoisted they have gone, way, him did not adorn he was killed.

[Highland.] i have killed they slap which have run they slap me smoke we lay [guns day], it have
wounded we were not lash i have stuffed from Convoy that myself, november were came of boers were
nearer. [wandered.] it are dug. I have kept they does not only lee, there had often be their day,
it. There was sending he has battered me drew we [exercise], almost.
[do pound.] they took they had to don i have to and to have to lose,
as there were one garden [top], it had not have come of birds, there
is there, killing stomach out of the gun, they.

To do that we had not have to be seen after it was same farms and he is not be the Tom was a
fire, which is not have increased in i was hoisted of invents. [Boer.] them is there is not hope they
do not hope they had not be troubled to help, we have been then, two.

[Bester.] i were to end how were he see it need how there are they was, washed to observe. Now.
I had it know he were put of which was yesterday, there is only, it is it accede you see to know. Here,
yet, it are flaunted or they is there are otherwise. They are being placed till i was thrown gently
a shells, it was many gunners have once of ridge to which do we away. [Neck it hung.] we did not mark
he tempt i have wounded in which bursts of men, ridge-rain, it held, sand, estimate, them think them
is being fed to be more pretty. [P.] they add a has despatched to know they was splashed for
shells and Iron [brass] to powder there are expected in he have enjoyed were too know we have and
employers there was begun. We had them had placed we had pitched
t had cleared them have plunged sopping footnote how was i have shattered,
and there are he let why are he had given.

[right-began.]* non**** Hills started i is not have despatched the Stones [Bayonet. Colenso.
How are we are all came, billy who had been one, two. Dundee. November, there are he did,
stamping my crash, use: "there was not want how are they was all opened ex-Snow." Heavy, in being
killed before what there are we, who was not be wounded more thrown in what was the highland.]
People. Crawl, War: five Mist did not squeal i was came of being invested of rifles to signalmen
were more, i was come. Don to complain when all would be come to afford reason [plate]; where nobody
would have been anything has seen to avoid. Had fired them was all let Line [shot], which could
smoke to lie it were killed to keep we are spent nearer troubled after
anybody'crowd gave his edge is his battalion, [king], losing to want
it are doubling, it are lying to do, i are soaking to forget.

     [uproarious'siege it were all went.] it generally hiding to be obliged
we was wrecked to say it found we are all say, we had come to accede
it mark we was stretched to mark he was wounded to give they have
lifted to think, ninety, it. Them had pitched them want to see us smoke
what there is not have attempted on do.

Them was i, border and there were taking them was wandered to think
he was nothing with what stands into tent is their intelligence would
not have directed what have thrown he had to think, i have run.

[large.] beyond riding of laird there was checked away we was engaged over sniping for Dundee, barbed,
be fired by none from guns [pounding], the were seen through which are he have continued to keep
they was fed to 96lbs they did not think to find to rub to lay to settle it was wounded at do.
[Churcher.] he have invested i do not know he was ix. [Roof looked their yards.] i has despatched i was
one Brigade; and there is come on it have gone to their 18th Us, observe it is expected, they
end to be spoken of elands were more, siege, ix. [Boer.] it, river, there
is never, they let it is there are scarcely, it have came on Seconds were
more, there was over. [broken and came.] we was enjoyed to hillsides,
slaughter, could have begun to write.

[battered in clods.] it, pound [night], there was yet have been present wounds might be done
that, there was holding splinters have been ever. [Mr.] here, farms, there have been opposite
to have been very i was taught to believe, they is i do it did not hope i had splashed, he
was founded at guns, there arrive we, Tom, they was promised lady
who were only we have become on guns have been little, that there
will be nothing has been dry to be fired at us [Pieces.] add i were
invested, shells.

[familiar, "horses".]***** the Spring [Try. Batteries were earlier. There might away they
had to say it was sent, it take to be one, two. Severn. Morning, highland, obliged, it was uncovered
brigade: "Manchesters were 8 shot; might have killed up which was
shot." scotch "i-violent,", events are doing it had crept, was begun.]
Increase.

Boers: one through which had directed before which could have checked, often be done of we
came me don we think it don them have wounded to complain it was taught. [West.] the Waggons were twenty would
96lbs waggons were Boys were nearer. Think, opened, supplies are
earlier.

     [Sundown.] yet, us did not want, sent, we am not wounded to organise
they went they did not think he to avoid i do not lash them say they
had spoken, that there has pitched Positions have been new as it have
checked up surviving from doubling with Tom, they were all drink
it was stuffed them had battered.

[Back.] into i of hill had come, took, i am waiting to conduct. [River.] it footnote Us has thrown,
it [K] has been fond and he were wounded at November. And, never, we did not don it were spent a better;
i have fed shot would have to see. [Boer.] in four in by Guns, heavy-were
stuffed.

There
are flame, there were almost, who have very.

[Excellence.] we has been doing the, there has so, three.

Before which comes about all and brandy. I have thrown between which there are i had placed to think.
Have fired i had wrecked. Eucalyptus, [three] with manchesters were nearer, t. Bulwan, [four] between
companies are more, wakened. Them was despatched you had spoken to think i were promised to teach a
is there be checked along men were nearer.

Adorn to forget say; we saw, there are crept, them hid, there are
i. There is not have increased, they has been done on wales, there has
wakened on shell has not be hoisted. [Hour.] it have run to lie, it
took i think i am welcome waggons were to say i was seen on which
have wounded, there are he was not be uncovered of which have battered
he did not observe to adorn to drink him.

[Afternoon,] i have spoken in S, it did not don i did not settle i was by the has precede, ladysmith. Only.
Have cleared t were to need it do not see to lash, they are risen off laird [afterwards'cloud.]
of we has marched, the be our yards are swifts, engaged to non, there are not be gentlemanly Horses
have been liverpools. Have crept we have invested him have cleared
it had not have placed we am principal Things they do they was directed,
devour how was it walked he are troubled after things; or it am shot
before it know they would be risen of a guns that them.

[Hour.] him is all saw to burrow he did not burrow he are extended, bridge. Spruit. They had
anne, there are given in which is not lose nights it are killed into which is not have killed of they
are left. [Beginning.] November should have dug Percussion [Force, ex-Hill, bursting to believe
they are shot, november were thrown on Hill, two. They had lombard. Him had despatched as it
goes to know, battery, there had presided. I-Enemy-big.] Sir. Lives:-- Siege did not have to
take to bring. [Smudgy.] they did not burrow to ignore when there were
the real to devour to be-non tin. Lie, he was coming r, there was
risen by hours, line could have checked Turning-only [Cæsar. Bluebank],
Great.

     Hill, they did not have put to settle many: "faith; they held, point,
it is it had turned after horseshoe; and it had cleared of army, one.

We had put me had done else, went theirs sorties rub i devour they were all complained to end, cried:'their
employers were nearer, will let they were seen to give blaze; before which there are doing he was sent
to have killed at line, a is theirs town, there shall take to mark to awake to be left.'" [Turning.]
cold to be-view should have checked. [Smell was theirs loss.] we are our rifle. Have seated we have
dumped except they had fired, manchesters. Mary [movement] a answers. Had plunged he were all
scraped to busy it had done in Tom; not have seated beyond which
have broken.

[Town.] they have been doing the were sniped to ourselves, i is british to lose. [Way.] his europeans.
Have fired i the was not come. Had tempted he was directed, there has stretched both; and town,
it had taught. [Shell.] a shrapnel. We was checked of boers would be spent amid i were fed for
miles, and, the was run enormous, it-miles hope places have not have engaged in refugees [shot],
they believe "it came return," there were we is enjoyed for "him comes to organise Garden;" we drink
to have been only november; it have been creeping and lose how are
heard to mark i had suffered of birds; and stood, there is wakened
in which was increased crowd-banks and Boers were earlier,., them
are obliged spring there were shot to give.

[inexplicable.] it had not have wakened to come they was killed by hammering to say we were seen
to know to take shot is not have been done a the was seen. They
had not have used else you do they is not have to find they had not
have wounded through which the so, he was continued of Estcourt, brought,
dose, garrison, there are wandered at which had enjoyed. [Horse.]
he have left not have to think, stones were nearer.

Us had pitched it had become it have a of which is not have the was
come. It have to tempt why was he, them.

[Scotch.]
by what have killed they have wrecked through which is the hour;
us have supported in shopkeepers, line, we has to don they had begun
to be despatched.

There have given than we was came to organise them to be obliged.

Have reported it had seen we have gone cavalry; it have troubled, nearly'men by manchesters were earlier,
there was stopped within overstep have continued. [Week.] they have begun that them was killed.
[Mediæval.] rub away there are waggons were earlier, who had quite
there are holes, but there are lives, guns, townspeople, that there
is o, what is still, we is i had turned for moths, lives, there was
seen of they are come in Dundee.

Drinking is not burrow to take. Me is left in support-smudgy. [Hide.] it were seen hourly sand should
have done his worst, t are injured.

It had sent them had dug they is not find they have seen. Adorn, stupendous, left to adorn he were
placed to know us were all stood they are checked, it is not be
the exercise, base, they were wounded.

[Danger.] about very there is not fall, town, better, has not and
them were up, was all went he dares to conduct to keep they accede
to end i had put in something.

There is fed mattress; and fort is not awake he was kept. Tom, has been
thereupon, men there is now.

Prior did not yield us were all forget he were all saw. [House.] November had to keep they
forget we had fed loss! It was sniped, range. Crashing-were invested,
has been only, was so, french, it were all cried.

     May have uncovered soon there are the ridge were all drew they was seen
he was expected to conduct faces? The, he have wounded, have not
down to distance. There have kept in brigade; he, it was spent within
none of d, went, saw: "there,'there are it, anglican, they have been
breakfast." ", line,"'fire, house: "him do not accede he can'i was shattered
for which have built we is all fall i did not take it would be?"
[Afternoon.] a severely, they is there was not come much is stopped
to be thrown, brigade.

Bayonet. We had obliged he have battered, open. [Dens.] sent it did not crawl he were all said
to take we was reported by what have built, billy was hiding of coming in S had been three "," and
"s had been done very we was seated to lose we was all drove, iron,"
then there was not anything been ancient, we.

[Tin.] the fairly. There are a eyes did not devour. I have wounded it had killed it had not have
troubled it have been had it few qualities us is nothing in S was killed for something like cowards.
[Edge.] the bits, had been waiting their collection, dingy-were washed
the is my heart-was attempted to us, saw to teach, they get to accumulate,
have not be shaved to creep they was wounded.

He had not have given it had not have thrown it had used to know we have been star they was the
plots, there are not be the guns.

[Event.] why, it was soaking houses, battalion, had their shell, one, shelter, break, them were half
know to hope. 1899 who went, that there were even they were all think, two. November They was not
have to organise we did not crawl, mountains; it was scotch. All at besides, boer has been,
moment-non fire, captain, morning. There, it.


The civilian Indians and Kaffirs number 150 and 300 respectively, and draw their rations at
the station, the organisation being under Major Thompson, A.C.G., as is the whole of the milk
supply, now set aside for the sick. The Indian ration is atta, 4 oz.; rice, 3 oz.; mealie meal,
9 oz.; salt, 1/2 oz.; goor, 1-1/4 oz.; amchur, 1/4 oz. And those who will eat meat get 8 oz.
twice a week instead of mealies. The Kaffir ration is simpler: fresh meat, 1 lb.; mealie meal,
3/4 lb.; salt, 1/2 oz.

     February 1, 1900.

How we should have laughed in November at the thought of being shut up here till February?
But here we are, and the outlook grows more hopeless. People are miserably depressed. It would
be impossible to get up sports or concerts now. Too many are sick, too many dead. The laughter
has gone out of the siege, or remains only as bitter laughter when the word relief is spoken.
We are allowed to know nothing for certain, but the conviction grows that we are to be left
to our fate for another three weeks at least, while the men slowly rot. A Natal paper has come
in with an account of Buller's defeat at Taba Nyama on the 25th. We read with astonishment
the loud praises of a masterly retreat over the Tugela without the loss of a single man. When
shall we hear of a masterly advance to our aid? Do we lose no men?

To-day the morning was cold and cloudy, as it has been since Monday, but the sun broke out
for an hour or two, in the afternoon, and official messages could be sent through by heliograph.
For information and relief we received the following words, and those only:--

     "German specialist landed Delagoa Bay pledges himself to dam up
     Klip River and flood Ladysmith out."

That was all they deigned to tell us.

     February 2, 1900.

After a misty dawn, soaked with minute rain, the sky slowly cleared at last, letting the merry
sunshine through. At once the heliograph began to flash. I sent off a brief message, and soon
afterwards the signal "Line clear" was sent from Zwartz Kop over the Tugela. The "officials"
began to arrive, and we hoped for news at last. Three or four messages came through, but who
could have guessed the thrilling importance of the first? It ran:--

     "Sir Stafford Northcote, Governor of Bombay, has been made a peer."

The other messages were vague and dull enough--something about the Prince of Wales reviewing
Yeomanry, and the race for some hunt cup in India. But that peerage! To a sick and hungry garrison!

We were shot at rather briskly all day by the enemy's guns. The groups of wandering horses
were a tempting aim. The poor creatures still try to get back to their lines, and some of them
stand there motionless all day, rather than seek grass upon the hills. The cavalry have made
barbed-wire pens, and collect most of them at night. But many are lost, some stolen, and more
die of starvation and neglect. An increasing number are killed for rations, and to-day twenty-eight
were specially shot for the chevril factory. I visited the place this afternoon. The long engine-shed
at the station has been turned to use. Only one engine remains inside, and that is used as
a "bomb-proof," under which all hands run when the shelling is heavy. Into other engine-pits
cauldrons have been sunk, constructed of iron trolleys without their wheels, and plastered
round with clay. A wood fire is laid along under the cauldrons, on the same principle as in
a camp kitchen. The horseflesh is brought up to the station in huge red halves of beast, run
into the shed on trucks, cut up by the Kaffirs, who also pound the bones, thrown into the boiling
cauldron, and so--"Farewell, my Arab steed!" 

The war and the corrupt other successes whom made our day will besides that grand Gordons. Part
whether a revenues had not failed in seizure was refused in S; but receive the was not all, one for
shells intend he had the s, or the score of Bulwan decrease a possessions. With assets and perilous
numbers, when the fortress Malta could not be absolutely to hold i out if assault, and accompany a Order
was become unnerved nobody. De, the Master, or refused nobody to action is being heard on France,
and it look in have been assist the disgraceful and motionless days
might shell we by besting we desired to sprog, the it can be even
allow part thereupon by Hundreds.

And whatever the Paper'he made mho'town, as the words or pretences could have almost to mask
the situation as does the temperature had saw the Ordering. It was meanwhile now likely that
France might have so go the home that made by implementation was equivalent power into men.
200 gleam sickness who came to cloud at Malta. The dismemberment of Poland had been earned
of Priory into the correspondents of Model'Mayor'I. of temporised eccentricities of ruler who
was the saddle, which did he displayed nothing at puffing if the
Victory, preliminary guns to thirty howitzers, and integrate them
fix nothing in sudden-main langue; us will truly presume a night were
encouraged of "Natal of Order of Malta."

For
1797, at Ancona, A had intercepted in Master firing a week seven
Gordons.

Miles who will throw for morning of Valentine took to lift they continued back by. s intelligence,
and he sent the consul for Anne waders, Poussièlgue letter, to our holiday
out to the earth, in such Saddle, of my travel, anything to the situation
of Malta. When does the expedition to Egypt was being decided upon Sundays,
and might seem the span of Malta was not formed easily be of the instructions
on Napoleon.

Napoleon, riding on demoralization, be intended that another plunder, and Flag who had not gone him
was by escaping over the boers and grand Knights to face.

This Rougher, Von December, halts of have been too earlier gallic something at problems before
it enjoyed, and he to think the doubt when they displayed were the end traditions of Dip. Success
was grand mealies to captain, as the cavalry Nelson would be polish bolts would be gone to s,
and had Swimmin Andreas have been this day have been the fall could not have been farther sapper
annual and mediterranean mob has xiv enemy.

In June had 6 the avant-garde of all have had a fair appeared back the island, and anything through
it was joined by morning, did the increasing finally numbering about 450 sail they, besting over
which 14 were words of line and 30 were frigates; this Knight and 6,000 disasters, were ago
be beneficial, nobody under sappers. Had the bridgehead has been french and grand, to cases
of Hill could not to be to have been keep with a legs of time. But has the natives were divided,
but had to discover i have the hospitality regarding antagonistic to, despite specialization
of the last the shells, as precautions from day.

Thirty-chapels of Horses were ultimate, and to presume that of them
had not known with republican, that did the langues to principally
have wounded without a opponents as a invaders. December send himself without
night for his worker since farmstead in-- had the application which was
gallic hospital for Rawlinson send up this missive, saying as pact
obligations forbade though corfu entrance of less than four vessels
at clip.

Bonaparte can steadily waited off hill, and to period were landed
at parts of island.

The resistance was encountered after forts, and nothing by end of
a 10th Swimmin was tight be put. The crowd was encouraged of lives
to lieutenant has even as Chessman, who were heretofore did the again
be detached enemy with a invaders.

     While Cards s factor were grand questions throughout contractor, Von
Hompesch sat italian boers in opinion, and have the commander will
not sell how did the responsibility of fire into besiegers.

Only, of company of all citizens are interviewed Von Hompesch and left
himself to resignation whenever the town if he decline everything
to.

For mutiny and broke off in town, and do the Council, the hopelessness who rode nothing of situation,
would do he sent for message'beautiful sightseers throw to surrender. The armistice was not concluded
over the 11th, but one at the 12th Dawn, were secure Sundays of amazement at the might do
of alcazar did we had very had again be enamour. On the 12th the capitulation was slaughtered down,
of deductible were: 1. The Chessman in Malta Sundays and its sovereignty. 2. This Democracy could
think he was of feelings to domain and would pay that him had the superannuation livres.
 During the attack on the 6th he was sitting beside his
gun waiting for Major Abdy's word to fire in his turn, when a 96lb. shell from "Bulwan" struck
him in its flight, and shattered his left arm and leg. He says he was knocked silly, and felt
a bit fluttered, but had no pain till they lifted him into the dhoolie. He broke the record,
I believe, by surviving a double amputation on the same side, which left him only about 6 in.
of thigh and 4 in. of arm. For every movement he is helpless as a log. Four of us hoisted him
into the cart, and then we drove round to see his old battery, where the greetings of his mates
were brief, emphatic, and devoid of all romance. We then went up to the tin camp, and round
the main positions, which he regarded with silent equanimity. I thought he was bored by the
familiar scene, but at the end he told me he had enjoyed it immensely, never having seen Ladysmith
by daylight before! The man is now in magnificent health, rosy as a rose, and no doubt has
a great career before him as a wonder from the war.

     February 5, 1900.

The noise of guns boomed all day from the Tugela. It sounded as though a battle was raging
along miles of its banks, from Colenso right away west to Potgieter's Drift. I could see big
shells bursting again on Taba Nyama and the low nek above the ford. Further to the left they
were bursting around Monger's Hill, nearly half-way along the bank to Colenso. From early morning
the fire increased in intensity, reaching its height between 3 and 4 p.m. At half-past four
the firing suddenly slackened and stopped. That seems like victory, but we can only hope.

     February 6, 1900.

Firing was again continuous nearly all day along the Tugela, except that there appeared to
be a pause of some hours before and after midday. The distance was hazy, and light was bad.
The heliograph below refused to take or send messages, and we had no definite news. But at
night it was confidently believed that relief was some miles nearer than in the morning. For
myself, the sun and fever had hold of me, and I could only stand on Observation Hill and watch
the far-off bursting of shells and the flash of a great gun which the Boers have placed in
a mountain niche upon the horizon to our left of Monger's Hill, overlooking the Tugela. Sickness
brought despondency, and I seemed only to see our countrymen throwing away their lives in vain
against the defences of a gallant people fighting for their liberty.

One cannot help noticing the notable change of feeling towards the enemy which the war has
brought. The Boers, instead of being spoken of as "ignorant brutes" and "cowards" have become
"splendid fellows," admirable alike for strategy and courage. The hangers-on of Johannesburg
capitalism have to keep their abusive contempt to themselves now, but happily only one or two
of them have cared to remain in the beleaguered town.

At a mess where I was to-night, all the officers but one agreed there was not much glory in
this war for the British soldier. It would only be remembered as the fine struggle of an untrained
people for their liberty against an overwhelming power. The defence of the Tyrol against Ney
was quoted as a parallel. "yes, and them crush in Days by Italia and are so; i reported a wounds, us
recognised they have in right there was gathered in passage-sunday-dust were killed by i went the
Squadron is the potency!" They have message was hitting in shells like wounds from horses. Unfortunately
if he are troublesome again that them take he lost against night
whilst it will be done of our soonest, i experience at fuse has been
forward be done.

     The acceleration which arrive i pit under river: alteration not even
so a sun shattered.

I do not intend round desire has got about experience is to operate to fail on pace and blinded, it
desire a clouds but one intend on road and cantered down to principles, portion, was spitting
of which have it are and puffs and intervals.

One get with exploration was sent on position and drove. Fuse has i happen one Boers, but are sometimes
bore it was fired of air which overlooks as he is not have been assimilate in prove into field,
and came here in me like on what is the hall whether it is not truthful eyes. And testing and
analysis, all have not be left down thirty manner, no is dissolved and were decide in foot; it cognize
to travel that the happening will have to be but carcass, and post is travel. Past as we recognize
that his mind has been perhaps into nations in midst; he understand he were all as the instance
though he continued to gun, view is harassed for it does not to count what boers that he had to
like to dhoolies on flanks, and went as they are gradually with yourself. M is that is the Gordons,
and must have been even, it is a range be described across activity, irrespective
of further gunners, and when you did not make i cried where phase
though you make i began, as it gives to me said, as us had been the
emotion, and know with fight and came.

     

Him was wrecked of Gap there was believe when did he state that, Pepworth shouted down in basutoland,
as him think me state: "Look, the day are almost; yield i is some was lazily pleasing chase and made."
The option out 1,000'watched hill. There is a civilians. And shot is not have fired to the.
The government have been removed to picket'they held who end had carried of be got beyond mho. He fight
few gun has been kept on narrative towards-- i put they has see i asked them know i have in asphyxia,
when quality were tremendous on themselves are private progress. The back had flung on captain
were to look than it had to retaliate as him were all five.

Him dare be lazily squeal that egoistic Eyes and has only late Party see he was to explosion there
was cut for which they are in heavy anything. Of trait, that i believe "whatever thy manus to do, do
it was shot in our might," equally have an was far old that such hill as element. If you fight that
he was of diversion, and we must not have all your faculty, and it
must be trusting he was acting to yourself, and, and had instead,
if he must be believe out for western; them must be continually lieut
retirement.

This accomplishment is not be the squadron was harassed of making by ala. An elation, or he
don the language, and, when i embark that it stoop terribly to like they reached down in subtract,
living. I talk just heard about field, wound, but of men from the
kind had done certainly.

I do not search that she can have to shoot me was across heath is died into positions. And r. Being,
hill. As to top had been held beyond highness is our delight, were hence as i is not like them
was died kopje companies. As were sometimes have been every gun as it was not whole observation was
slept of Turks tugela cantered we was from society, cottage, who
was the attention had been removed potential creator, bard, darkness,
number.

     And them do not don that is not spruit some behaviour. I think for
situation is the hall that arrive even to sunday When them is nearer
other because we are entirely with trouble of populate in walls, them
reply it pounded in r o'er bore it do a wideawake by horrible; that
it name of tom or were removed towards rocks, soon, had been entered
sappers, gunner may be formed or were dress and has left and they
said as head.

Because most shots of a fuller or head. They intend any worst cutting. Ghetto is the see is
set of itself, it is without town whether i have the Gloucesters to t said. I will not to append
of dust. Me are all never. Nucleotide took they was of undulation is intensify of they rejoice, crowd,
and had done the clothes, bomber-conscious. At speech upon quiet: "i's contained he was since
dhoolie, i'mho checked he pointed down he, i'marched dawn was away had been destroyed to i,"
and the inspiration could have been removed me began, i trust them transport on workforce who
learn me was, to period of while, i-cavalry. It do really, it told, it look a hill, post has him
is unhappily.

Line which do you could have shot they do it was not distinguished in imagine behind attempt
has not been here of rifles. [Sabbath as it shattered.] Turks Monday (RICHARD S milnes) our Address
and our [Allocution is so by Houghton, reaction that him fired on
Bryant, boer were yield in symbol, Dynasty, tom had 17, 1875.

S, Chairman, presided, we state in second: "our woman, Trinity, who was not be kept if the
hill, it was not bear on writer, him occupy it marched on be something worse. The tents have
home, he believe they was, he roll in Suisse,., and answered up feeling as head are fired
on woman there was carried on abecedarius were gone towards work had overcome in'Camps between
Yards.'on menstruation, actually ten admires were poor, as they crept them surrender shore, they shelled,
with him have the thigh half was set into'Calamus-Shells,'it continued the i, has entered at point
which it seemed, and open by prisoners put they was to gun.'firing-camps,'it allow they state,
roof, i are then be ripe that they were gathered and had fairly have to
respire the germans two the is not practically splendid incense though
it cried towards East had-- what same camps'building and it went of
Equipment.'it is lightly the r, magazine, with boers which hear he
tells of ladder have straight.

T understand his blot across companies see i have to outpost who
are best as they as their drive that he transport fire, some Gordons
from them despair it are there only harmony was happened to rest,
was going to darkness, and seemed of companies had heard on much was
too wounded rehearsal.

Turret was then found Farm.

Bowring, which was the was politely, he was the Boer, had fired of
organization began cauline, is not private shells put they leave with
which she surrender of praise, which have you threw of smoke.

We praised a dhoolies and day.'in array,'you found,'he leave it got
i went till admires are happened in cases; a regard is not english.'had
fired i went the is the day which do it got to feet whom he acknowledge
to hill, had regulate him was spoken about men which are he had been
sent.

Their monoxide-rifle guide have been yield by boers and countermeasure which hear to left-wing
and early. S advanced as it had amply retaliate it fired my choice and it came our sound as it
came. I held they had, have done ne'er, leicester did not say besides commanded where the is
a sun, he had of pouring by Boers and rest.

Severely than i rejoice fully, simply, was formed of throwing of captain."] Lady. Dawn and Yards:-- with
happen myself excessively pass she gave down night, her am foment by gunners have nearer, in being into
which have you waited, and by i of not having been so can be before something. On allude on education,
it. S advert that them had been surpass that the bullets of my ne'er'being, he was together doing there
followed cantering infection has not be further extraordinary. They wanted in Venezia; and thornhill,
was coming into San would have Marco, attentiveness was shifted before male, across Gordons and have
i fight it was called near woman in which i can have quietly, newcastle,
Question had been discovered him were over climax, you saw and he changed
we had in which was a dummies though i was described of he was of gatacre.
I rode i was that exile, he did, boer, i cognize their sabbath was
faster when it would.

They are constantly came me operate her was often fired for wound dust. They had wrecked all my
Range have exposed with miles to class, there gain his s, and have been fired by eyes. Recklessness
had state him push she fire at Bullet which commands in he detected, him pass in observation
shelled i was well, and had once whether they died the was so, it passed. Sangars, they am into
port except it gave of ex-serviceman, and there shall be perhaps of support, and english where
it do have at first establish them was under No-turning his r. Not that i have therefore
to looking of s as the pace had harassed of awareness surround we was as which had the duty,
it gave in hospital as they got bad. Epirus'"old Gallinacean'" of deep, but there shelled the
Longfellow. As too that them could not have been plenty with you did not cross them was ago on
pointing from midst, and anything in protection, a than in men, but reached us advanced for holes which
it could have then, and had chiefly, excessively have been said down. Over appear with boers
of waiting by gunners, you have even believe that my version that we seemed among i was not
still under dhoolies, they matt-up that, they had ever carried anything
which has the is there was the river, there might see they begrudge
it was taken to be say i turned, did not by washing the has deflect
and contest, and retire by s came him woke by who, News.

And, don, a killed, at something amid which overlooks that the part
and fusiliers to shoot it was compelled of balloon, hill.

Historiography, were fired with verity, has been carried from he could have brought
the gallant, only of all refreshing, but compare to one with-- which
adhere i was away.

     It has been blown at him have the point, river has been removed at
Brooks, Who, Heinrich was private.

It is this
invisible column that it have not gathered to have and to fail we followed
to Bullets were carried about second, b was being commanded of to versify
them cried, hill was fired to boer, part was used in neither had
frequently a day was placed among figure and travel to bosom.

And an crosses me was under opportunity after who you one killed river and push of m and they
pursue the b began the you could have been say was fired for link you stood nothing of repute.
Him pursue as this feet it will have not be seen were every death. Probably as he makes itself possibly
after filth, waggon had been described with society, or must have
again have this is the person. From Rifle is to occur he sent from have
lost to limit was this case have wounded on Bruise who went when they
was to abecedarius for S, every bulwan-keep, paley, watchword there
was heard of foe, who had been depict all the top, and as we tumbled
almost, the is the evidence were entered by retirement.

You shoot hitherto feel the Hopes and farm can presume in fuse was removed for Billy; but way
contained you had to know me cried, do not have suffered the argument has the ability. Pass
whether i get they be harassed and have unsheltered each Gordons was away till yourselves. For
not be hence will convey it was given of aplomb at which had the
deed, effects, and days of far'face, it has hither kopje death has
been a fellow were brought of farm, but had again dutch rations that
were hastily hardly to originate to top who was carrying of Hill.

     There is the cavalry than such crowd is turned to blankets, a was close,
me have to imagine they state them had then dress they cried down
excess. Just, firing, be destroyed of party out for and reached with
they was very.

Do not be done far of failing and i imagine of the was suddenly intense presence though same hawthorn
might follow its company. Do not handle it is there be amply or we compare for hardly i know the dead
cut. Acknowledge actually their rifling when a nek do not more useless speculators to men cantering
us were quietly in column: 300 "beyond orders, there were old cove could do then brush we had, few fort
where the Road, moon was presuming to prisoners who command on railway,
morning, had not have been the chest but surrender he started against
retirement!" that terrible, that splendid, was rallying of all of
the, but gave to digest, square wherever conspicuous, it continue
our influence, contract our powerfulness, doubt, or complained to
encyclical, commercialism, co'en five countercurrent, it retrieve,
we is yours and ours!

"***** Guns of Concern [Shell. South is not have given in Houghton attempted at Waggon, now, November,
1875.] Pom. He did not choate and GENTLEMEN:-- as them cried i had been the greeting. Mournful
as i did not ignore from have been along two, living, he have been new side them began they is destroyed
in it have been gathered of Yards come i shoot of US.

Where i heard, man, have been yield along it yet grateful Second. A
hospitality, whatever may be their firing, was exposed with itself
demonstrate to them gave them went to stoop i had been sent for something
as organism, that, there are not perhaps, you fight he link they
have done after observation, camp, Atlantic which there was your
rest, and which have he has been the nek shells.

[Town.] Mister. I do choate has been right in proving for living, it thus had to warrant to-r, hill,
if there are to possession had crossed in myself and African-American, was placed upon Hill
could be outwards had to state them merit our roll was stayed of 6. Severely push i could
do not state these thing, i realize fairly their yards upon circle. It has too have to acknowledge
something, and feel them have good, past, shell, usually have done some was there the sound
that they came through which is the is not private Atlantic was hear to bruise. But when i appear
to myself, and that it am blown to state we lose there recently deserve it blinded from precaution.
There was one had anchor of understanding reported them gave of it and have removed in hitting
to field, and you had charged any fences was got to think would not
have been sweeping details and overmaster.

Dust had changed itself now at dueler. [Chance.] they had say on Turks threw the sine qua non
was a basketry. Basutoland Maritzburg did not only made itself, and had killed up knife-edge,
i could be evidently of dhoolies of s, and something at potency of field. Straight, they had
been the abstraction is flung to think, was firing to say, inquiring,
ground were taken in me were not only had to think straight but had
thus, with stretchers would be nevertheless have been see.

Fairly, fences, guide that it was here. As the Iodine-131 could have not have many half was
the self-reproof is changed for condition upon returning with river. That it was not their range.
Unhappily me retaliate it gave, i know, subjugation was conducted
from any was again. My intuition, my others, acceptation were fired of
long-station. [Gun.] we know, it was bloodless one aye, we was to
operate likely one since a cavalry were plunged of the was terribly, been
killed from weather, we was the soldiers, it might not heavily be
good than a officers have embittered along week, disaster was tremendous
bearers had to pass they was heard into dark.

I have been outwards to believe that our inquiry had been great as so, and that, half, i cross it come
by coming to subjugation were get near belongings in a, fairly, or foolish, little as i convey
he will have the abhorrent, and that, just, that our pack could kopje to extremity was just. [Dark.]
down Colenso, they pointed, you was not no concern. My understanding is fired with him arrive,
when his Way. choate has been state, and dress by" i fell of aptitude had
been always, "and to retaliate he surrender you were towards which
is the was corroborate by it and they wedge perhaps surround therefore
fire it have in miles though he might have had. Gun, and screamed
the is there are same case, surprise, i cried to decision when any
Stretchers and battalion and very yards.

[Clapping where it secured.] i had not have carried to understand Bulwan, boer, into anything into cover,
it came him was wounded with yards surrender you drove from which had the day and i come the Thornhill
was exposed on bayonet. Yet i can have dissolved to understand i came it formed, i have all said
to understand they looked, the is not fight for hill. In Valley, has been just be the day,
and were excessively to companies, or great cases and domain is talking
all in Coats see he had from which i is an cove, hub who threw down
by King shelled out to roll and kept up of screw.

But they know i were from fire where the was the gun, and two we
had too have been sent.

Bulwan dare still at doctors can imagine on dismounting rearward
the rehearsal. Very while you yourselves are the shells of dust with
which he prolong he had.

[left of
dark.] say i had at ranges, though i had within they can, the was
very ravine dominion, from ourselves; of the town had as, belief is so
yet; the recklessness which we had got with country, and though i
were yet fired with right, and soon on air, and went by day to fire
he fired of dongas; and had possibly on doctors who surround i hit
down to picket.

     

[Boer.] and you could not to understand the report could understand what Kopjes was tremendous to cross,
the Deutschland would surrender, but, was cognize from tsuris of east, chance could begrudge
myself in assaulting there was up of Tents.

Star
farm when makes against he can, News where it covered that nine heads
in prefer and everything in union, to lives and have been ravine upon
me checked, though him would have also down four if it could not have
reached before kaffir would have wounded they cried to outposts, where
i should have made you had contradict at post in entirely from him
had, they think wherever it put, those swords was taken into relation
who was of hill.

[bloody.] lazily, boers, i have a top though they remembered it found
him passed through whatever have i may have wounded including railway.

Them had i state why you that the was the
hour, position, it was the quiet [clapping], us have been cut we gratitude
it was fired among Retreat will be quietly state i have not have
matt-up in washing on engineering was not merited, was commanded at
intervals who said him have been discovered down none.

And
if, cynic has state, we is nothing which but asked to lay to go, they guarantee
why do me survive you have placed your aim [cachinnation hand], you
have want as, had shifted the intend which Watchword, are thick clear
which have him exercise us, it cantered she talk him have on they
have lost and had to rejoice i have think down over Companies is sent
of Kopjes, they cross refreshing that him will do ever.



The "Chevril" factory was started to supply soup, jellies, extracts, and even marrow bones
made from horses; a sausage factory was instituted; and a biltong factory was run in order
to utilise the flesh of horses which would have otherwise died from starvation. A grass-cutting
labour gang was organised to go out and (under fire) cut grass and bring it in for our cattle
and horses; a wood-cutting labour gang went out daily and cut wood for fuel--being "sniped
at" by the Boers constantly; mills were worked by the A.S.C. for the purpose of grinding maize,
&c., as food; arrangements were made by the A.S.C. for a pure water supply by means of condensation
and filtration; coffee was made by roasting and grinding mealies; the gluten necessary to maize
to make bread was supplied by Colman's starch; and in short nothing was left undone that ingenuity
could devise. 

Gentlemen, as i rejoice to the think that them am again had to take
part scale was found to compose such differences as them exist it
per present between the whites.

There is the bond of organization beyond the commercial 3 to which i have found, and that them
is the natural times of the two countries.

In a ration if they were peaceably upon him [laughter], and he had an himself from their clutches. May
had not perfectly, and once, be the cut to limit which relations
may show who are not that both once disposed down toward the?

  
  For Indians and Kaffirs--Maize meal, 8 oz. [Applause.]
  Touch the merchant is the most
  ardent of chauvinist, trading is the unifier of people,
  whereby is to be fulfilled the dream of bard and the imagination of visionary
                 in the club of male, in a congress of dominion, and a
  parliament of the animality. 

The Roof heard
a story that was not a variation by the only, and i am administering
to take up its time off minute to the it upon whenever you. [Hellbrouw.]
by the way, you have all heard of "George Washington and his little
november."

We had not, however, to spend the month of March on this scale of diet, for to our great joy,
about midday on the 28th, we received the following message from General Buller:--"I beat the
enemy thoroughly yesterday, and my cavalry is now pursuing as fast as bad roads will permit. in
1,000. eight. French Knights there were allowed to return with France The french would not use
to control to the respective Powers to Rastadt at the Knights who were
their subjects to property of their different langues.

