EDWARD BARNETT, A NEGLECTED CHILD OF SOUTH CAROLINA, WHO ROSE TO BE A PEER OF GREAT BRITAIN,--AND
THE STORMY LIFE OF HIS GRANDFATHER, CAPTAIN WILLIAMS,

Or

The Earl's Victims: with an Account of the Terrible End of the Proud Earl De Montford, the
Lamentable Fate of the Victim of His Passion,

And

The Shadow's Punishment,

'Truth Is Stranger Than Fiction.'

by

TOBIAS ACONITE,

The Mayor of Hole cum Corner.

1855

THE EARL'S VICTIMS.

CHAPTER I.

THE STEWARD.

Earl de Montford sat in a plainly furnished room in his stately mansion. Gorgeously decorated
as were the other apartments of his princely residence, this apartment, with its plain business-look--its
hard benches for such of the tenantry as came to him or his agent on business--its walls garnished
with abstracts of the Game and Poor Law Enactments--its worn old chairs and heavy oak presses,
the open doors of some of which disclosed bundles of old papers, parchments, etc.--this little
room, the only one almost ever seen by any save the aristocracy and their followers--exercised
and contained frequently more of human hope and fear than any other or the whole of the others
of this sumptuous edifice. Here the toil-worn farmer came to pay his dues to the Lord of the
Manor--here often too with beating heart and quivering lip, the old servant of the soil came
to beg for time--time to enable him by hard pinching to make up his proportion of the sum spent
in luxury by his landlord. Ah! reader! could those old walls reveal the sounds, the tales of
human suffering, of heartless avarice, and callous indifference--of sneering assumption and
hopeless woe, thy brain would be as fire, thy heart would sicken, and thy blood would boil,
till rushing over every prudent thought, through grinding teeth and passion-paling lips would
start, the one wild word, Revenge!

I have said the room was plainly furnished, but there was one exception--the chair in which
the Earl sat. This was an old one, formerly the chair of state in which the old Barons his
ancestors had presided at many a scene of wassail, with their retainers. It had been stuffed
and new-covered to suit modern luxury, but the armorial bearings remained still carved in the
wood of the high back, with the proud motto, "Nulli Secundi," second to none.

The Earl was not alone. His agent, a hard-featured man of business, sat at a desk, busy with
papers, and a venerable old man, who had been his father's steward, stood a little behind his
chair. There was a frown on the brow of the nobleman, as after a stern glance at the old man,
he asked,

'Has that scoundrel been apprehended yet?'

'He has not, your lordship,' said the agent, slowly folding up a document; 'nor does it seem
likely he will be. I have had the old haunts searched--I have, as you directed, promised large
rewards for his apprehension, and threatened the tenants if they harbor him, but no clue to
his hiding-place has yet been discovered. I am afraid he has left.'

'He has not,' interrupted the Earl. 'He is here, in this neighbourhood. I feel his hated presence.
He must have harborers, Johnson. The parvenu millionaire--the cotton lord--harbors these ruffians
by refusing to prosecute poachers. He preaches equal rights, forsooth! Break down his fences--send
my deer to stray into his park--get some one to fire his barns--I will pay them. He has thwarted
me, and he shall feel the agony of a long and fluctuating law-suit. Oh! for one day of my Norman
ancestors! I would sweep such vermin from the earth. Waters!' said he, turning to the steward,
'beware! I have, from respect to my father's memory, somewhat restrained myself towards you.
You have pleaded this man's cause. Say no more. He has threatened me--dared to use reproaches
and threats to a peer of the realm--he shall be crushed as a noxious reptile!'

'My lord,' said the old man firmly, 'I was your father's steward--I was your grandfather's
foster-brother and playmate--man and boy, I have been in the service of your family for over
seventy years, and for the love of your house have I withstood you in wrong-doing--I beseech
you again, let this man go. You well know he is an injured man. Add not more to that final
account which you as well as I must one day render before God.'

'Palter such trash to coward fools!--I want none of your priestcraft,' returned the nobleman.
'Do I not know the reason of all this affected love for justice and mercy. Your grand-daughter
was to have married this midnight robber--they were betrothed, or some such trash. Find him--doubtless
she knows how--let them marry--such a son-in-law will be an honor to your family, and a comfort
to your declining years.'

'Your insinuations and your sneers fall as harmless upon me as your threats,' said the steward
with dignity. 'I am eighty-nine, and shall soon be beyond them: but when you brand with undeserved
infamy one who never injured you--when you accuse my innocent grandchild of being privy to
the concealment of a midnight robber, as you but now called the unhappy man whom your ill-usage,
whom your misdeeds drove from a happy home and honorable course of life, you commit an action,
only equalled in its baseness, by its cowardice!'

The Earl started up, purple with rage. For a moment, he seemed about to strike the aged form
before him. He paused, however, and stood regarding him with clenched hands and furious look,
and every evil passion glaring from his eyes. The steward moved not one inch, but confronted
him in the majesty of venerable age.

The agent paused not for one moment in his task, but quietly labelling and tying up a pile
of documents, placed it in its proper pigeon hole, and went on with methodical exactness to
the next. They were a strange group. The man of business in his chair, pursuing his work as
if no other were present, but observing all that took place nevertheless; the nobleman in the
prime of glorious manhood, noble, as far as physical beauty could go; handsome, rich, accomplished,
intellectual, but distorted as that face was now, in his rage, ugly, hideous in the extreme
as he gazed upon the calm face slightly flushed with virtuous indignation, the spare form and
silver locks of the aged man who dared to stand between him and the victims of his wrath.

Gradually the face of the nobleman became calmer, one by one the lines of passion disappeared
and an expression of cold sarcasm took possession of his features; he threw himself into his
chair and turned to the agent.

'Mr. Lambert, be pleased to pay particular attention to my orders, that is if your nerves are
not too much discomposed by the exciting piece of eloquence Mr. Waters has just favored us
with for my especial benefit. Gad! Waters, you'd do the heavy fathers finely on the stage.
I'll write to Davidge for you, that last speech of yours was capital; couldn't you favor us
with a finishing touch, we are all attention.' The agent placed his papers on the table, and
wheeling his chair round, sat in imitation of his master as if in expectation of hearing some
rich joke.

The single word 'God!' escaped the steward as he turned to leave the room; he gave one glance
around as if for the last time looking on those familiar objects, cast a sorrowful glance at
his master, and was about to quit, when his eye was arrested by a picture; it was that of frank
and noble boy in the pride of youth and beauty, his face ruddy with exercise, his eye bright
with intellect. It was a portrait of the Earl when a boy.

He turned towards them once more.

'My lord,' said he, 'I pass by your harsh speeches of me and mine. It may be I spoke too rudely
myself. I will dwell no longer on the past, it is irrevocable; of my broken-hearted grandchild;
of her young love, which was twined too strong around her heart, for one to perish without
the other; of my own head grey in your service I will never more speak--but oh! for the love
that bright boy once bore me, here on my knees, I entreat you, spare this man, who once was
your playmate, spare him as you would be spared yourself; for let not your proud heart deceive
you, not all your array of domestics, not all your barred doors, can save you from a violent
death, or the guilt of murder, if you do not stop this unrighteous prosecution--for your own
sake I entreat you stop, ere it be too late. Spurn this grey head if you will into the dust,
but listen and spare.'

The Earl was unmoved as marble.

The old man left with bent head and slow step. 'Lambert, you will issue a notice, offering
£500 to any one who captures Horace Hunter, dead or alive--also on pain of expulsion from the
property, forbid any one harboring him; send for two London officers. These country bumpkins
will never find him. Enquire for a dissolute fellow, known by the name of Curly Tom--pay him
well: he perhaps may track him, in short, find this man and punishment to death shall follow.'

'It shall on you!' said a loud voice, apparently near them.

The Earl sprang to the window, and jumped out, the agent trembling remained, not a living being
was in sight--the window opened upon a smooth lawn, there was not a chance of a person escaping
notice, but no one was there; he summoned the domestics; they searched--no one was found, they
had seen no one. Frantic with rage, yet with an ill-defined sensation of fear, the nobleman,
re-entered the mansion, and dismissing every one, locked himself in an inner chamber.

The agent waited until his master was gone; then seated himself in the chair of state, and
mused. 'Let me see! £500, too much to slip from my hands. I will find this Curly Tom myself--I
think I know him--and if I can but keep him sober--and promise him a good carouse when Hunter's
caught, he will entrap him--for these scoundrels all know how to find one another--£500, too
much for any of these bumpkins constables, no, no, I must have it--there is danger though--I
must think over it--that voice was queer, where could it come from--could any one be in the
presses?' After screwing up his courage to the task, he opened them fearfully one by one; there
was nothing there but the old papers before mentioned. He stooped and stood leaning against
the mantelpiece, over which was the Earl's picture--then puzzled, but determined on his course
of action, he left the room and took his way to the village. He was not far from the house,
when a servant called to him. 'You have a paper on your back, Mr. Lambert,' said he. He took
his coat off; on the back, fastened with a pin, was a paper, with the single word, doomed,
written upon it. The man of business was puzzled; he was not altogether a coward, but this
was not a business proceeding; he said nothing, however, but methodically folded it up, placed
it in his pocket book, and proceeded.

CHAPTER II.

THE VILLAGE ALE-HOUSE.

Railroads were unknown in the times in which our story occurred, and the village ale-house
was still the rendezvous of the villagers of an evening; the parson still occasionally looked
in and smoked his pipe with the lawyer, the exciseman, the sexton, and the parish-clerk; while
the sturdy farmers, the smith, the butcher, and baker formed another circle; while the laborers
and ploughmen, the butcher-boy and the tailor's apprentice lounged in to drink with greedy
ears the news; to listen to the wise saws of the village politicians, and become in due time
convinced that by some strange freak of fortune the only persons incompetent to rule the country
were those in power at the time. Mrs. Alice Goodfellow, the landlady and proprietress of this
village elysium, fair, fat, and forty, was a buxom widow, shrewd, good-humored and fond of
pleasure, but careful withal and fond of admiration. She never, however, allowed any one of
her admirers, to suppose himself more favored than the rest; neither did she suffer any of
them to languish in despair. If she allowed the smith to hand her to her pew in church on Sunday,
she, nevertheless, smiled sweetly on the baker; and if she took a drive in Farmer Dobson's
pony-chaise for her health, yet, Farmer Thomas would sit for hours inside her bar; the truth
was, the good widow was perfectly well aware that her snug little free-hold and thriving little
trade were quite as great objects of attraction as her delectable self, and acting on the same
principle as that old humbug 'Elizabeth,' insanely called 'the good Queen Bess,' viz: the balancing
opposite interests, she drew custom to her house and grist to her mill, without troubling herself
as to selection from her numerous admirers, which, besides displeasing the others, would place
another in authority over that bar, which, for the last ten years, she had ruled monarch of
all she surveyed. She had no relative, save one nephew, a wild, shy boy, strange and moody
in his habits, passing whole days no one knew where--holding little or no communication with
any of those who visited the tavern--none at all with the boys of the village, poring over
some book of wild adventure when at home, ranging the woods with an old duck gun on his shoulders,
or laying down beneath some shady tree poring over the same wild legends when abroad. His aunt
could make nothing of him, and nobody else took the trouble. The curate, indeed, tried to teach
him once or twice, but he disconcerted the old man so by discharging his musket at an old wig,
hanging by the wall in the midst of a lecture on the propriety of going to school, that he
gave him up as hopeless.

The tap-room presented its usual evening appearance when the agent entered. The curate and
lawyer were deep in a discussion on the beauties of the new poor-law; the farmers grumbling
at the weather; the landlady quietly seated behind the bar, while the bar-maid, a smart, coquettish
girl of nineteen, carried the ale and brandy around to the thirsty customers, and all the usual
concomitants of a scene then common, but, what we must now call of the olden time, though half
a century has scarce passed away since it occurred. The agent was a great man there, few liked
him--in fact, all hated him, for though generally a just man, he was entirely a man of business;
punctuality was his deity--there was no excuse with him for not meeting rent or bills when
due; he did not overcharge or wrong anyone, but he must have his bond, like Shylock, without
his ferocity. If money was due it must be paid; sickness, bad crops, death itself was nothing
to him; if not, he proceeded legally; oh, what a world of anguish! what a number of crimes,
crying aloud to Heaven for justice and retribution, are committed under the cloak of Man's
legality. The type was forged in Hell that stamped the letter of the law.

The agent, after exchanging courtesies, lip-deep, with the principal farmers, the curate, etc.,
walked up to the bar and entered into conversation with Mrs. Ally, as she was usually called.

'His lordship has desired me, Mrs. Ally, to put this notice up in a conspicuous place in your
tavern, perhaps you will oblige me by placing it in a proper position.' So saying, he handed
her the paper containing the reward, etc., offered for the apprehension of Hunter.

'You may stick it up yourself on the parish pump, Mr. Lambert, if you like, but my bar is no
station-house or cage; give it to the town crier,' said the dame bristling, for she hated the
agent, and feared him not.

'Dang my buttons!' said a burly farmer, 'Mrs. Ally ha the agent dumbfoundered--what be the matter?'

'It is simply this, good friends,' said the agent: 'his lordship has offered a reward of £500;--£500,'
said the agent, slowly repeating the sum, 'for the apprehension of the notorious poacher, Horace
Hunter, who has threatened his life, and will visit with his gravest displeasure any one who
harbors him, or in any way countenances him; if a tenant he shall be discharged; and Mrs. Ally
here, refuses to let me place the notice in her bar, thereby showing great disregard for my
lord's wishes, to say the least.'

The farmers mostly shrunk back on this speech; the name of a lord, and that lord their landlord,
appalled them. They knew the bitter wrong he had heaped upon Hunter's devoted head; they well
could sympathize with him; they had known him a gay and thriving farmer, their lord's especial
favorite--fatal favor--the companionship of the tiger and the deer. The beauty of Hunter's
sister had struck the libidinous eye of the aristocratic villain--need I say more? ruin and
desolation followed--no one knew what had become of her. The brother had been kidnapped by
a press-gang, but of course the Earl knew nothing of that; he was now, however, supposed to
be lurking in the neighborhood. The Earl had received a letter in which the brother's heart
had been poured out in bitterness; he had injured, therefore he could not forgive. Not so,
however, Mrs. Alice; she did not fear the lord one jot, and folks did say, she knew more about
him than he would like told; be that as it may, she loudly protested against its being placed
there at all; and was still indignantly haranguing; now crying shame upon his lordship; now
bewailing poor Ellen, who had been a great favorite of hers, when her eccentric nephew entered;
he looked dusty and fatigued, but there was a strange smile upon his lips as he looked at the
agent. Each town hall meeting was a scandal. The Maza had done to prosecute
the corporation outgoing and waste of funds: they had to judge of first instance for you. Belinchón
those who had them in court would justice. But for those who say that God said ayudaréte help
yourself and be put into play powerful influence to get it. Letters came and went from Madrid.
Not the Cabin not neglecting to prevent it. Maza wear yourself out their opponents with the
rod of justice. Like most of Don Rosendo was only two votes, hatched plots to tear them admirable.
Sometimes a special session convened at hours when some of them it was impossible attend, others
feigned errand sent to some council members, announcing that it had suspended; other, at the time
of any matter put to a vote, it was with weasel words according to his friends, so don Rosendo were confused
and voted against him themselves, as happened on more than one occasion. On more than one well,
left closed in the secretariat some councilors taking the key. After the parents of the municipality
are gorged screaming and banging on the door came a bailiff to open, but had already been made the
vote. Thanks to these and other tricks, the countless injustices that committed, vengábase
the choleric ex-Marine from his enemies, who was a beauty. His tactic was attack them where
it hurt most, that is, in their real estate. When a street was one or more houses of any member
of the Club and none of his friends, was the architect several municipal grade, leaving lower.
Thus the foundation is discovered homes and at risk of coming in the soil and therefore the hassle
of putting stairs to climb to the portal. A few months as mayor, there were over twenty houses Sarrio
with the foundation to the air. Other times, he made up the ground so that when rain strong,
were flooded. Naturally, such pranks aroused strong outcry in favor Belinchón, angry tirades
by the lighthouse, and untold riots in sessions municipal .. But Mace was given around a fig.
Remained impassive their unprecedented reforms urban cruel smile listening to the complaints of their
victims, responding with sarcasm ferocious speeches by speakers from the opposing side.

Marcones Mateo introduced in an adjacent room to meeting room. The forum aimed the public was too
ugly to get into it a decent person. In addition, they were interested little fights roosters
those Englishmen.

In the same room sat mingling amicably the two notaries of the population, Mr. Victor Varela and
Sanjurjo. One was a old, small, doe-eyed, with an enormous wig, so rudely made, it seemed Esparto,
the other a middle-aged man, pale, graying mustache and lame from birth. Saluted our old and old
friends whom you see every day. Nobody in the radius of the village left to greet Don Mateo.

-
Waiting for the session ends, eh?

- Yes, sir - a dryly responded and removed the old reservation that the desire to enter further
investigation.

Looked for another conversation, the most he could please the trustees of the public trust, the
hunting.

The two were cruel persecutors of the quail, and woodcock Peguet, but much hardened even more
terrible and the hare. Just came some clear days, these fast or innocent animals had to suffer
a violent persecution by the guild Attorney, actively supported by a half-dozen dogs that, for
better run, let them starve.

Speaking of rabbits, was for Don Victor and Sanjurjo the threshold
of Heaven.

Lift with beam, is tucked into the bush to the waist, Heaven itself.

- Too bad day! - Don Victor said with a sigh, looking at the sky through the glass balcony, full
of dust.

- Truth - Sanjurjo said, giving another sigh .-- However, the land
can Maribona it is a bit soft, it rained enough these days.

- What
has to be! - Mateo uttered .-- Now in the summer will soon be dry.

Moreover, all that region is limestone and absorbs water easily.

The notary looked at him with tenderness.

- She said Pepe Esguila - continued - that the peasants have been
jumping hares these Ladreda days.

- I know - Sanjurjo said .-- Today,
if not for a task that has left us, we gone to there.

At the same time was a sign of intelligence to Don Victor.

- As Pepe had to leave this morning with Fermo.

That at least told me last night.

Notaries looked dismayed.

- What did I tell you, Sanjay! - Don Victor said.

- Frankly, I cheated
on that rascal ... Well, some will ... Tomorrow we are you and me,
Don Victor.

But they had sad news. Stubbornly silent. Inside the living room unrhythmicity
voices heard, strong rumors.

Ever sounded the shrill ringing of the bell presidential order calling.

Don Matthew, sorry for not being right that time to encourage conversation,
set again, facing Sanjurjo.

- Man, it seems incredible that you default
on your leg, you can hunt.

- Who?

"This? Wherever you go, run like a greyhound - Don Victor said with
affectionate enthusiasm .-- As the track is placed on the hare, stop
being lame.

I tell him of lameness that has invented it for attention. Is so lame, like you and me.

- If you did me good! - Uttered Sanjurjo, smiling resignedly.

One touch of a joke, I got happy. Don Victor had the prowess of his partner in various occasions.
One day, to run better, had put on four legs: it was a breath .-- How? - Wondering Mateo astonishment
- on four legs? - what you hear. Sanjurjo was laughing, saying I had learned to run like a child when
his limp was more pronounced and could not compete with peers. In turn, praised the laziness of
Mr. Victor, a registered loungers every little grass for not going ahead and getting tired.
Don Victor laughed too, holding no hare stood with his legs, but
with the eyes.

Many times that stubbornness his had given at the end result! - Do you remember that day in San
Pedro, three years ago, when I left only about Arceanes? Who raised the hare, you went with the
wind cool, or myself that I was fumbling that sifts through the bushes?

The conversation heated up with great satisfaction Mateo could not see anyone sad at his side.
When they were more embedded in it, ignoring the cries blessed and
campanillazos that sounded behind the door, open it with a crash and
displays the majestic Belinchón Rosendo figure in a state of disorder
difficult to paint, hair scrambled, some of them stuck to his forehead
with sweat, swollen cheeks, the glassy eyes, the tie at the neck.

-
Sanjay!

... Sanjurjo, come! - Agitated voice said, without saying goodbye, without ever seeing Don Mateo.

The
notary stood up calmly and walked into the room with him.

Don Victor did not mention none at this sudden departure. Was mingling amiably about the same
as were talking with Don Mateo, who, though a little surprised, no one dared to ask anything.
After a while, appeared Sanjurjo, who closed the door behind him, and came to sit with very
quiet next to them, continuing his interrupted conversation. But not passed many minutes without
which again opened the door to noise, this time the person appearing Chubby Don Pedro Miranda
also state of decomposition.

- Don Victor, Don Victor, between you!

Neither health nor even saw Don Mateo. The notary stood up and followed him seriously.

- What the devil does that mean? - Asked Don Mateo Sanjurjo, after
he had closed the door.

This made a vague gesture of contempt, shrugging his shoulders.

- What nonsense! - Growled Mateo .-- Belinchón and Miranda, who put his life in these council affairs
and wanted to be mayor, now take so much trouble!

Things had changed a lot, actually. Enconadísima struggle that both sides sustained in all areas where
they could, was now engaged in the municipal corporation anywhere. Maza's tyranny so irritated
the minds of the friends of Don Rosendo appealing to every conceivable means to counter it.
At all costs wanted to prosecute abuse of authority.

For this Belinchón had taken his notary service Sanjurjo constantly accompanied him to meetings,
minutes and more reports of the arbitrary the mayor, who went to court and there is stagnated due
to the unwillingness of the court. The Cabin opposed notary notary records to records, complaining
of insubordination most of their votes, on issues that were not within its competence.

After the session, Mr. Mateo was introduced in the office of mayor. I was taking purgative lemonade.
Every few days one of these potions needed to dislodge the bile to
be accumulated in the stomach.

That struggle daily for three years had put to lose the stomach. He was still agitated, convulsed.
His sardonic laugh of the session, the contemptuous calm affecting listen to the speeches of their
opponents, it was pure comedy. Back inside, the anger was eating
her entrails, he mingled with the blood.

Much work had trouble suppressing the blind impulses of anger that
were attacking at every turn!

Two of his friends commented on the meeting, while he, silent, pale, dark circles with its eternal
even more pronounced, stirring the liquid with a spoon. Don Matthew, as one of the few people
who remained neutral in Sarrió, was received with openness and entertainment.

- Sit down, Mr. Mateo. What brings good around here?

The old man said he came to know if it was true the threat to abolish the subsidy the band in case
it was that afternoon to the festival of San Antonio. Maza's face blurred. It was quite true.
Not having the council if any assistance that afternoon instruments
drew the Academy ... Mr. Matthew asked, "why?

... Maza, after teeth grinding as an introduction, said he did not want to contribute to solemnize
character input would arrive in the afternoon and stayed at home
Belinchón.

- Don Quixote would be able to tone by suggesting that
his guest had brought him for his present.

- But, Gabino, if all
the years gone.

No one can believe or think such a thing. Consider which is the most important pilgrimage town.
It would be very sad that the girls do not dance and have fun for a trifle like that.

- Well, nothing, now deleted dance. Sorry. If you want to go to go,
but know what to expect.

It was impossible to make change for a resolution. Don Mateo pleaded first, then angry, and to
the right that gave his age and the noble intentions that always encouraged, and which no one doubted
at the villa, Maza said four fresh and two council members there were present. Neither the mayor
nor bilious they were angry. One came to say:

- Perhaps you're right, Don Matthew, but what do you want? The fight is fight. Interested our pride,
and you have to crush these wretches, or they crush us.

The old man came out of the saddest consistorial angry. In the past three years were incalculable
slights and tasteless in this genre that had been infected. Nobody was and suitable resources
to support their recreational projects. In vain will intensify its efforts to bring theater companies
verse or zarzuela. All broke out shortly afterwards. For prevailing element in the functions of
the Club, it was known that the Cabin is retired, and vice versa. And as for the theater is held
to be necessary the cooperation of all, the result The comic was always escaped starving. The
first thing they asked Don Mateo at home when I was begging to be paid was: - Are paid Fulano Richard
Roe and Zutano? - If yes, already knew what he was told: - I do not count you with us .-- Our
good Lord lately resorted to deception to engage them; but the bitter neighbors immediately
smelled the bacon, and put off his answer and then they find out "what people had." And if
this happened in the drama, what did not happen with the notables in that period of time the flight
had landed in the village? A famous violinist, another who played an instrument of wood and straw
admirably, four brothers in bells, a Moor who showed two cows wise, an English doctor who brought
a microscope the famous Chinese giant, a Navy Seal mom and dad saying, etc. All had protected Don Mateo.
But his active propaganda campaign earned them no big deal.

All the monsters, Spanish and foreign, they knew by hearsay to our retired colonel, and as Sarrió
set foot in, your going to call home. He accompanied them to the mayor, the presented in Saloncillo,
recommended to the owner of the store where they thought displayed, and almost always top of
the pay subscription for the trip. At one time he did not leave a the town that was not happy
and fat. But now! Now Mary Magdalene was not for taffeta, as he answered a few.

Mateo's deputy in all the festivities was Severino, that of the hardware
store.

There was in the province who preceded him in making balloons elegant,
colorful and well provided to go up without tumbling.

Even in the difficult art of bow lift of branches with transparent
night, or fire rockets quickly and lead.

Well well, this ingenious man, who both had rejoiced at the villa
with his outlandish inventions long ago that remained inactive.

When ever I said Mateo, who spent always in his shop a few hours:

- Severino, are we going to prepare something for the eve of San Antonio?

- Why, Mr. Mateo, for what - the shopkeeper responded with dismay.

- A two hundred lanterns iluminacioncita nothing else, a balloon and
some rockets.

- Do you want us to cost us money as the feast of Santa
Engracia?

- Perhaps the Indians loose this time something - muttered
Don Mateo.

- Well, not innocent. It seems impossible to not know!
Release! What did they release these turkeys if not ...?

Both being
unfair to the Indians. These were kept in absolute neutrality, amazed
that wealthy men like Belinchón, Miranda and others are rushing things
both pertained not to their private businesses.
The seaman treated the affair lightly, laughed and joked with the farmers, and the crowd began
to disperse, when a burst of musical laughter, bitter mocking in its tones, was heard in the
apartment. It came from no one there. All stood aghast. Many a stout-hearted countryman who
would have faced a cannon without shrinking, trembled and turned pale. The women shrieked;
the nobleman started up.

'Let no one quit the apartment,' said he. 'Search the walls--there must be some secret panel
there.' It was done, but not a trace, not a knob was visible; all sounded hard and solid.

'You have a shipmate with you, my lord,' said the mariner, 'whose name is not upon the ship's
books. I have heard of such things at sea.'

'And what might your wisdom suppose them to be?' said the Earl, with a sneer.

'It is hard for man to tell,' said the seaman, who had not been the slightest discomposed by
the voice. 'He who made the ocean and the dry land alone knows; but a conscience void of offence
is the sheet anchor for man to rely upon in the voyage of life. I never knew such a thing to
happen save to a wicked man.'

'Ha,' said the Earl sarcastically, 'a moralizing tar-bucket. Truly, this age is prolific in
wonders. The march of intellect is abroad with a vengeance. But since these good people have
been disappointed of their expected morning's amusement, perhaps you will favor them and myself
with this yarn, I think they call it; and Lambert, order some ale to be served round, and let
them bring a cup of brandy for our maritime friend here; he must wet his whistle, I suppose,
or he will never be able to spin a yarn in true, orthodox, sailor fashion. Sit down, friend,
and begin.'

'I drink when I am dry, my lord,' said the seaman, 'and I prefer standing to casting anchor here.'

'Have it your own way, then, but proceed, we are all attention.'

'I had shipped as mate on board a vessel bound from Valparaiso to Virginia, some years ago,
when, getting short of provisions, we put into Lima, on the coast of Peru. Here we took on
as passenger, an English gentleman in bad health, who was said to be enormously rich, but who
bore a very bad character, people said he had murdered his brother's child, or had him put
out of the way, to obtain his inheritance, but he was a rich man and justice was quiet. He
had noble blood in his veins, and had been sent out by government as ambassador, or something
of that sort. One of our crew came from his native village, and he told me these particulars.'

A singular expression came over the Earl's features for a moment, and the same low, mocking
laugh was again heard, the listeners shuddered and drew closer together: the mariner proceeded.

'We had a rough passage, but when we neared Cape Horn, of all the gales that ever blew in five-and-forty
years that I have been at sea, I never saw one like that. One night when the storm was at its
utmost, when the lightning, blue and vivid, seemed to surround us with an atmosphere of flame,
he rushed upon deck, pale and trembling, declaring he could not stay below, for there was a
woman and child there, mocking him and dancing in the lightning's flash.' A groan of horror
burst from the listeners. The Earl's cheek flushed for a moment, then turned pale, but he was
motionless and passionless in seeming. The seaman glanced at the Earl from under his shaggy
eyebrows, and proceeded.

'The sailors spoke together in angry whispers, some of them were for throwing him overboard,
and I had hard work to persuade them to leave him to his Maker and his conscience; soon, however,
we all heard the wailing cry of a child, then stifling sobs, sounds mingled with the storm
like a woman's voice in agony of supplication, bitter, mocking laughter. I could restrain the
men no longer, "we will free our craft from this Jonah," said they, "the storm is sent for
him." But the vengeance of the Almighty was swifter than theirs, he had climbed the rigging--the
stoutest seaman that ever handled rope could not have passed the futtoch shrouds in such a
storm, yet he reached the top-mast cross-trees, clinging to the top-gallant mast he stood,
and in the lightning we had seen his face, ghastly with terror. There was a vivid flash--it
seemed to wrap the mast in one blue sheet of flame, while all around was dark, we saw it then,
a female with a child in her arms, floating, as it seemed, upon the wind, now drifting towards
him, now whirled upon the blast to a distance. A tremendous sea struck us upon the beam at
this moment, and every mast went by the board. The gale abated soon, and we got jury-masts
up, and put back to Lima, but of all that ship's crew, no man was hurt by the storm or the
spirit, save he whose deeds had been evil;--and that is why, my lord, I say I fear not these
sounds, for a good conscience is the best sheet-anchor.'

'A truly edifying tale,' said the Earl sneering, 'you must be Chaplain to the fleet, doubtless.
The bad boy got whipped and the good boys went scot free, just as it should be. And now, good
folks, you have had your amusement, and had best seek your homes, and Old Boreas here may go
to his ship or the Devil. I care not.' With this parting benediction the Earl quitted the apartment,
and the crowd soon dispersed. The agent remained, and a few of the tenantry who had business
with him. The mariner with a grave, quiet look, remained seated on one of the benches. There
was a slight bustle at the door, as of repelling some intruder, who, however, succeeded in
gaining an entrance, and a man whose garments bespoke extreme poverty, entered and approached
the man of business.

Mr. Lambert lifted up his head and looked coldly at him. 'What is it you want now?' he asked.

'If you please--' began the man.

'Oh! It's all of no use, unless you have brought the money. My Lord can't wait any longer,
and I have a warrant out now.'

'But I have the money,' said the man, and he laid five one pound notes on the table.

'This is not sufficient,' said Lambert, 'the costs of the summons, warrant of distress, etc.,
amount to £14 more.'

'My God!' said he, 'what am I to do?'

'I can take this on account, and stop further proceedings, if you can procure security to pay
the remainder within a month.'

'I cannot. Great God! have you no mercy? I have not tasted food these three days, and I am
weak with fever. I cannot work yet; wait till I am better.'

This man's attenuated form, his bony hands and cadaverous cheeks--eyes staring with hunger,
told a tale too common, alas, of fearful suffering; but no marble was colder than the agent.

'I am not your physician, Mr. Johnson, and therefore cannot say any thing about your fitness
for work. One thing I have to say, that is, you cannot sit rent free in my lord's cottage;
the money must be paid or out you pack. I have an attachment on your tools, so you cannot remove
them. You have had the usual legal notice, and my offer just now was liberal--very liberal.'

'And my children--'

'There are institutions provided by the laws, Mr. Johnson, for the reception of paupers. But
we are wasting time. Do you accept my proposition or not?'

'I cannot do it; give me time.'

'Too much has been already wasted. Take back your money. You doubtless can obtain more in the
same manner you did this. It looks very suspicious, I must say.'

'And this is called a Christian land!' said the poor fellow, holding his wasted hands up to
heaven. 'O God, that these things should be! The earth is covered with food for sustaining
life, and hundreds, aye, thousands, like myself, are perishing at home. Oh, where is Christian
charity?'

'Charity begins at home,' said the seaman, 'and seldom casts anchor in any other port. If you'll
take my advice, you will stow your cargo and make sail, and hark ye--' He whispered a word
in the man's ear; the other clasped his hands together, and with a tear in his eye, left the
apartment.

'Woe! woe! doomed!' cried the mysterious voice.

Lambert shook like a leaf--the seaman seemed to enjoy his terror.

'How much does Mr. Johnson owe?' said he,

'£5 rent, and £14 costs and taxes.'

'Write a receipt.'

The mariner paid the sum, and asked how he came so low.

'The usual story, captain.'

'Williams is my name.'

'The usual story, Captain Williams--sick wife, large family, broke a leg, wife died, behind-hand
in his rent, steady man, but not punctual in paying his bills.'

'Why how the thunder could he? Couldn't his lordship wait till the poor fellow was a little
recovered?'

'Business, captain, must be conducted in a business-like manner.'

'You thought otherwise once.'

'When was that, pray?'

'When the father of that man, whom your relentless cruelty pursues with such vindictive malice,
took you, a friendless boy, fed and clothed you, educated you along with his own son--the very
man whose misery you insult--when his father saved you from the "charitable institution" you
would send his children to, and finally paid the fee for articling you to the attorney at Canterbury,
where you learned your present devotion to business.'

The agent stared in speechless astonishment--the low musical laugh again rang through the room.

'Listen!' said the mariner. 'The creatures of the air, the beings of another world denounce
you; the victims of your lust for gold, though buried fathoms deep in the grave, still find
a voice to chill the marrow in your bones: the dead shall rise from their graves and confront
you--the hidden perfidy of years shall be disclosed, base tool of a baser master--all your
machinations against the wronged and the humble shall fail, and recoil upon yourselves. Repent
ere it will be too late; you will never more be warned by me.'

So saying, the stout seaman left the astonished agent and wended his way towards the cottage
of the poor man Johnson, whither we shall precede him. It is needless to remind the reader
that the way was perfectly familiar to him.

Dark are the shadows that cross the poor man's path, and few and far between are the glimpses
of hope that come to lighten them. The Eternal in his wisdom has ordained that such should
be--but Oh! woe! woe! ten thousand times ten thousand woes, does he deserve who oppresses where
he should relieve, who becomes the destroyer where he should have been the comforter; and yet
there exist ten thousand such who thrive and roll in luxury, while human hearts are bursting
in their agony.

CHAPTER IV.

THE POOR MAN'S HOME.

Standing a little aloof from the other cottages, as if conscious of its poor appearance, was
a shed; it could hardly be called any thing else, for it appeared originally to have been nothing
more than an out-house belonging to another building, and such in fact it had been. The roof
was decayed in many places, and covered partly with rank moss. It was situated in a hollow,
and the marshy soil around bore evident proof that it was subject to be overflowed in rainy
weather. Four or five squalid, ragged children, with pinched features and thin limbs, sat huddled
in a heap on the muddy ground, watching the road with anxious eyes--eyes so bright with hunger
that they seemed like those of so many rats. The youngest--it was not two years old, cried--the
elder beat it. Start not, reader, it is human nature. The little creature hid her wizen face
in her withered little hands and sobbed. A man rode by just then. It was the agent on his way
to the castle, for this was the morning of Curly Tom's escape. Instinctively the children drew
closer together and shuddered. They did not know why, but they knew their father feared him.
He passed on, and the little faces seemed to brighten for a moment; the eldest was but seven.
Long ere the dawn their father had started for the market town, some five miles off, in the
vain hope that an old friend there would help him. Ah, poor children! there they sat from the
first ray of daylight, and the bright sun was now glittering high above their heads, shining
upon their desolation and upon the castle turrets, wherein dwelt in luxury their oppressor.
The events we have described as taking place at the castle were still in progress, when a female
was seen slowly coming along the road, bearing a basket on her arm that seemed too heavy for her.

'That is Mary Walters,' said the eldest, 'and she will give us something to eat--I am sure
she will. Jenny, dear, don't cry,' and the urchin wiped the little face she had struck before,
and tenderly took her in her own spare little arms. The child was not much weight. Gentle Mary
Waters! who that gazed upon thy placid face, as thou earnest on thine errand of mercy--who
that saw thee as thou ministered to the necessities of those poor desolate children, would
not have loved thee--who that had seen thee in the first blush of thy beauty, when thy foot
was as elastic as the fawn's, and thy countenance radiant with joy and life's young morning
hope--who, who could dream that there existed one who had seen all this, who had known the
tie that bound thee to earth and its promised happiness, the innocent love that abounded in
thy heart--yet ruthlessly snapped that tie asunder, and buried the love nought could eradicate,
deep in her bosom--a shattered wreck amid the memories of the past. Gentle Mary Walters! alas
for thy experience!

What avails it to describe her--perished as we know that fair form to be, withered in its bloom.
Yet she was handsome. It was not in any particular feature; it was in the whole expression
of her face and form. Her auburn hair, in its plain quiet braid--her neat and scrupulously
plain attire, her mild blue eye, the air of placid resignation about her presence, seemed so
lovely, for she bore no outward token of the grief within; she had never wailed or cried her
sorrow away; but though her gay smile had passed away forever, she had not become the gloomy
misanthrope or the fretful querulous invalid. She had complained to no one. Her old grandfather
knew her griefs, but he also knew that it was a subject he could not offer her consolation
upon. To aid the suffering as far as her slender means would allow, to tend the couch of sickness,
to cheer the desponding heart in its hour of darkness, these were the occupations with which
she strove, not to forget her sorrows--that could never be--but to afford an outlet for that
love for her fellow creatures which no selfish grief could lessen. And she could smile and
speak in cheering tones to others in their hour of woe, shedding over their darkened paths
the light of hope, while deep in the fountains of her own heart that sweet flame was extinguished
forever on earth, and dust and ashes alone remained.

But over that lovely countenance, so serene and beautiful, the shadow of death had already
fallen;--that dread disease that beautifies ere it kills its victims, had placed its fell stamp
upon her. Daily her figure became thinner and sharper, her breath grew shorter and a hacking
cough commenced, while a hectic flush sometimes came over her pallid cheek--but too plainly
warning those who looked upon her, that consumption had marked her for its victim.

Hastily giving the children some victuals she had brought for them, she entered the hovel,
furniture there was none;--a chest of tools and a heap of straw was all its contents. The grate
had evidently been unconscious of a fire for weeks past,--but it was summer. She shuddered
as she looked around. This was the home for which the proud lord of those domains exacted a
rent of £10 per year. She was not one, however, to give way to idle speculation when there
was good to be done: she opened the shutters, swept the floor, and threw a quilt she had brought
with her over the heap of straw, then made the children wash themselves, and proceeded to dress
them in some hastily made clothes, which her basket contained. Then taking the little one in
her lap, and making the others lay down on the bed--for hunger had awoke them far before they
had their needful rest, she sat down upon the tool-chest lulling the child to sleep, and patiently
awaiting the arrival of the father. A step approached, it was not the man, however, but the
landlady's wayward nephew:--he, too, carried a basket, and seemed pleased, but not at all surprised
at seeing Mary.

'I knew I should find you here,' said he, sitting beside her, (he was much more companionable
with her than with any other person,) 'I knew as soon as you came back and heard how badly
off these poor creatures were, you would come to relieve them. It's like you, Mary, you seem
the only Angel amongst a race of fiends.'

'It is our duty to help the poor and needy, Edward: I only grieve I was absent from the village.
Things ought never to have come to this pass. Why did not the neighbors help them?'

'Why, Mary, in the first place you know poor Johnson was no favorite of theirs--he was better
educated than any of them, you know he was not bred a carpenter, but intended for a minister,--so
he has often told me himself, for he has been my schoolmaster, it's because we are both lonely,
I suppose, that he talked to me, but he kept aloof from the others, and they all said pride
would have a fall, and so would not come near him in his trouble. My aunt and he had quarrelled,
but she would gladly help him for all that if he would only accept of it, but his pride sticks
in the way. I knew he was away, or I would not have brought this with me; however, you can
say you brought it.'

'I can never tell an untruth, Edward, but you can leave it, perhaps he will ask no questions.'

'I'm not quite sure of that, Mary; but I've played him one trick this morning for his own good,
and if you won't help me to play another, e'en let it alone--all have their weak side,--that
abstract idea of truth you worship, Mary, is yours.'

'And do you not love the truth too, Edward?'

'I never tell a wilful lie, Mary, you know. I'd scorn it, and I never break my word,--but still,
look at truth's reward,--here! the home of an honest man, and there!' he pointed towards the
castle. 'Ah! forgive me, Mary, stupid dolt, that I am.'

'You have not hurt me, Edward, but must never think honesty and truth has no reward even on
earth; a good conscience is a blessing none can take away from us, and there is hope in Heaven.'

'There had need be, Mary,--I won't contradict you, though I don't know much about it. The Bible
says so, and I suppose it's true: but poor Johnson, I'm thinking will be more glad of the five
pounds I tricked him into accepting this morning than a dozen good consciences.'

'How was that done, Edward?'

'Why, my aunt wanted to help him, but did not know how,--but I was up at grey dawn this morning,
and saw him pass in the direction of Elverton. I knew he was gone on a fool's errand to appeal
to an old friend; he had, it seems, bowed his proud heart to that. True, he had saved this
man's life: more, he had saved him from dishonor and disgrace, but I felt none the less certain
he would get no aid there. So I took £5 from Aunt Ally's cash-box, and putting them inside
a blank letter, I directed it in a feigned hand, only adding the words, "from one who sympathises
with learning and ability in distress," for he's proud of his learning, and rode like mad over
the hills to get there before him; there I watched for him, and got a footmail to give him
the letter, and came back as fast as I went.'

'Now, God bless you for it, Edward, you are a wild boy, but you have a good heart.'

'Boy! Man, you mean, Mary. I'm eighteen this summer.'

'I should not have thought you so old.'

'Aye, aye, you judge like the rest, because my carcase is not as big as Lumping Dick's the
butcher boy's, and because you have known me as a child when you were a grown woman, you think
I am to remain a child always.' And he petulantly shook back the masses of long dark hair that
shadowed his wild but handsome countenance.

At this moment Johnson entered the room. His step was feeble and slow, but his countenance
no longer bore the look of deep dejection that had in the morning characterized it. His eye
brightened still more when he saw Mary.

'Now God bless you, Miss Waters, for thinking of my poor lambs,' said he. 'I scarcely dared
to hope for them. I have brought food for them--see!' he added. 'I little dreamed anyone would
have been here before me.'

'Sit down,' said Mary, rising; 'you are fatigued and weak. I must go now, as my grandfather
will need me, but we will send you something to make your house more comfortable.'

'I shall not require it, Miss Mary: I have nearly five pounds here.'

'Why, how is that?'

'It was handed me this morning by a strange footman in Elverton, after the door was shut in
my face of the only man I ever tamed my spirit to ask aid from: yes, the cowardly hypocrite
that dared not deny me to my face, sent his lacquey to tell me he was unwell, and could not
be disturbed by beggars. May the curse--'

'Stay!' said Mary, 'curse him not, leave his punishment to his Maker; but did not the agent
take the five pounds for the rent?'

'No; he said there was a warrant and costs of suit that made it fourteen pounds more, and was
going to send the bailiffs to turn me out this very evening; but a strange old seaman came
forward and paid the amount. I should have been here sooner, but I went round to the village
shop to buy food for the little ones.'

'You must allow me to have my way, Johnson,' said Mary. 'Sit down now and eat; then rest. You
will need the little money you have, and more too, to recruit your health, for you must not
dream of working again until you are strong. I will send what is necessary, and some one to
mind the children; Edward, will you walk home with me?' and before the man could reply, not
giving him time to utter a word of thanks, she took the arm of the youth and quitted the cottage.
The man knelt down on the floor, and famishing as he was, prayed for a blessing on her head
ere he touched the food that was there. Another had been a witness to this interview. Looking
through the casement was the visage of the mariner, no longer stern, but moved with unutterable
emotion, and tears, yes, tears trickling down his weather-beaten cheeks. This soon ceased,
however, and a frown dark and terrible passed over his face; his powerful frame quivered, then
settled down into one look of deep, determined, implacable resolve. He entered the hut, and
laying the agent's receipt upon the chest, quitted without a word.

CHAPTER V.

THE CAPTURE.

The sun had set about an hour on the evening of the same day, when Mr. Lambert, with two stout
attendants, set out from his residence on the outskirts of the village, and took his way through
the intervening wood towards the sea shore. The two men with him were London officers, adepts
at thief catching, resolute and determined; they were well armed, but bore no badge of their
occupation outside. The agent had screwed his courage to the point of accompanying them, with
some difficulty, but he was well aware that if they failed in capturing their man, he would
have to encounter the nobleman's rage, and he feared the loss of his favor more than the chance
of being shot or stabbed by Hunter; but he knew well it was an errand of no small danger he
was upon; yet they were three to one, and he counted much upon the instructions he had given
to Curly Tom; much also on Hunter's habit of drink, still he felt by no means easy and would
have given much then to have been quietly in his bed; not so the officers; they were in high
glee, the prospect of a desperate encounter being by men inured to deal with ruffians as they
were, but small in comparison with the hope of a large reward.

They proceeded in silence, however--the agent, who was perfectly familiar with the way, leading.
They soon emerged into the open country, and after a few miles began to ascend, and felt the
keen air from the sea blow upon their faces--the path soon became rugged and uneven, but sloping
towards the sea. In a short time they reached the beach. Here they dismounted and tied their
beasts up under a shed, placed there for the purpose of drying fish. There was no moon, but
it was a bright starlight night, and the tide was out. Creeping cautiously along, they skirted
the base of a large cliff which projected far beyond low water mark, and against which the
sea beat in fury when the tide was in; and keeping on its inner side; crept along until they
reached the entrance of a cave. Not a word was spoken. Their instructions had been precise--for
Lambert, who was born and had spent his earliest years there, knew every spot of the ground.
They took their shoes off, and walking upon the hard sand which formed the ground, entered
the pitchy darkness. Lambert going first, and knowing that a sound would be fatal--for they
would have little chance in that narrow passage--he turned every angle as accurately as if
it had been daylight, and the officers holding, one behind the other, followed stealthily along.
Soon their path widened, and a glimmering light allowed them that the cavern was tenanted,
or had been so. A few paces more, and they stopped. Some large masses of fallen rock here almost
blocked up the path, leaving an opening so narrow as to require stooping to enter. Cautiously
peeping through some spaces between the rocks, the agent and his myrmidons gazed upon a scene
Salvator would have loved to paint. The cavern here expanded into a semicircular hall, stalactites
hanging from its roof nearly to the ground. Here and there a niche and recess which seemed
done by human art, but which in fact was Nature's handiwork, was seen, and every point of spar,
from the lofty roof to the stalagmites below, was glittering in the light of a huge fire of
brushwood fed by Curly Tom. A small rill of water trickled from a fissure in the rock above,
and wound its way through the sand towards the sea. It was the very beau-ideal of a robber's
cave. Its existence was known to few: only accessible at low water, the entrance had escaped
notice, and the few that did find it were discouraged on entering by the long and tortuous
way which led to this chamber, and did not track it far. The smoke found vent above, as the
fire burnt clear and bright, and did not incommode the watchers.

Horace Hunter was pacing the cave with unsteady step, and with delight the officers saw that
he was more than half intoxicated. No one could have recognized in the bloated countenance
and reckless air of the hunted man, the gay and handsome young farmer of seven years before.
There was still the same manly form and intelligent features, but the rich brown hair that
then curled round his open brow, now wild and matted, only added to the desperate appearance
of his sunken eyes and overhanging brows. Drink did not make him merry. On the contrary he
was more bitter then than ever. Gloomy and ferocious as he had become since his sister's shame
had been known to him, when he drank he only brooded heavier upon it; and the hope of a more
complete revenge only restrained him then from some desperate act of violence. As he walked
to and fro, chafing with inward passion, he might have been compared to a caged wild beast,
hungry and with food in sight, yet unattainable.

'A curse upon you, Tom!' said he. 'Would you roast us alive, this hot night? Leave the fire
alone and bring your hang-dog face here!'

He treated his associate with the most bitter contempt.

'I doant fancy biding here with narra light!' said the fellow. 'There be a mort of ugly things
here!'

'There's nothing uglier than your own carcase. Drink and get courage. If your heart is cold
with fear, warm it with brandy.'

So saying he took a deep draught himself and handed the bottle to his companion.

'I hate the stuff!' said he. 'Bah! it's poison--but it rouses me. Fire this infernal cave!
What's that?' A bat, disturbed by the smoke, flitted close before his face. 'I have had nothing
but evil omens to-day. What is the day of the month?'

'I heern lawyer say the 26th, yesterday.'

'The 27th of August, then. By twelve o'clock to-night my time will be up--then I shall be free
to act. If that old seaman should play me false now! I promised him to wait three years, and
I have kept my word!' He was speaking more to himself than to his companion. 'Three long years--too
long for vengeance for wrongs like mine to wait. But that he swore, I should tame his pride--but
that he spoke of hurling him from his high estate, ere this I would have had the heart's blood
of that proud man. But to-night I shall be free, and then--'

He took from his vest a miniature, and gazed upon it long and earnestly. Gradually his features
softened, and burying his face in his hands, he wept. There was yet one green spot in the desert
of his heart--love for the fair girl he had been betrothed to. Reader, it was a terrible thing
to see that man weep--it would have made your heart sicken and your blood boil, while every
scalding tear that fell would cry aloud in your thoughts, 'Vengeance, vengeance!'

A strange proceeding now took place. Curly Tom took from his pocket a small phial, and previously
filling his own cup with brandy, poured the contents into the bottle. He watched his companion
intently during this process, but his terrible emotion too completely mastered him for the
moment. It was but momentary. He arose and commenced to pace the floor again. 'My Mary! you
too sacrificed! O, fiend! fiend! But my vengeance shall be terrible! To-night I shall be free
from my oath!' He walked up to the table and drank. Curly Tom watched him intently as he resumed
his unsteady walk.

'He little dreams that I can enter his very chamber at any hour. Oh! coward, fool, dolt, that
I have been, to delay my just revenge on the word of that old pirate. I believe him,--some
paid minion of this proud man; for he has them in every guise, perhaps the very appointment
made three years ago in the West Indies, was a trap, perhaps,--even this clod is a spy and
accomplice;' he took a pistol from an inner pocket and cocking it, pressed it to the ear of
his companion. 'Tom,' said he, 'if I thought you would betray me.' The ruffian possessed that
brute indifference to danger too often mistaken for true courage,--he did not tremble, though
a slight paleness was visible on his repulsive countenance as he felt the touch of the iron
barrel. 'Whoy! Measter Horace,' said he, 'didn't you save moy old mawther from being drowned
by the boys vor a witch, noa, noa,--I be true, and hate yearl and lawyer, and all the great volk.'

'I believe you,' said the other, replacing the pistol, 'but' he began to mutter indistinctly,
took a few steps in a wild, uncertain way;--'I feel dizzy,--d----nation,' he staggered to a
seat and dropped his head upon the piece of rock that served them for a table;--the opiate
had done its work.

Curly Tom cautiously arose, and walking up to him, looked upon him long and steadily, listening
to the heavy breathing,--he wished to remove his arms, but the position Hunter was lying in,
prevented his doing so. The ruffian felt no remorse; it was true that Hunter had saved the
wretch's mother from being abused and ill-treated, perhaps murdered, by the superstitious villagers:
true that he had regularly allowed the poor old woman support till her death,--while her ruffian
son was pursuing his career of crime,--but the villain knew his own neck was in danger, and
being conscious of perfidy, now hated Hunter for his momentary suspicion. As he leaned over
the insensible man, his light, bleary eyes gleaming with ferocious satisfaction, his lank,
shambling figure, and yellow, matted hair hanging in elf locks round his sharp visage, he looked
like an unclean bird of prey hovering over a carcase. And a carcase it was over which he bent
his head; dead now to every honorable hope, worse than useless to his kind, a hunted outcast,
a mass of decaying matter, kept alive only by the fiery hope of vengeance that burnt within.
The ruffian had hitherto been faithful, and procured Hunter those necessaries that he could
not venture in quest of himself, for he was a deserter from that service, which kidnaps men
to do its work, and hunts down the poor slaves when they escape, even in the land whose inhabitants
are singing, 'Britons ever will be free.' Bitter, mockery of freedom. Curly Tom now held up
his hand, and cautiously the officers emerged from their hiding place, slowly they came forward,
anticipating an easy capture; they were mistaken. The opiate, as it frequently does on excitable
natures, had only partially stupefied him, and the first effect wearing off, it now began to
act as a stimulant;--the officers had traversed about half the distance to the rock on which
Hunter's head reclined, when he started up and looked wildly around him,--for a moment he seemed
stupefied, and passed his hand before his face as if to assure himself he was not dreaming--the
officers rushed forward. He saw it all now,--he drew a pistol, but Curly Tom threw his long
arms round him,--too late to prevent the explosion, however. The ball whizzed by the side of
the foremost officer, and struck the agent in the leg--he fell. Curly Tom possessed more strength
than his lank figure promised,--but Hunter, thoroughly sobered by his danger; tore his hold
away, and striking the ruffian a tremendous blow with the butt end of the discharged pistol,
felled him to the ground,--and snatching a knife from the rock close at hand, stabbed the foremost
officer to the heart,--he fell with a heavy groan, and the next moment the remaining officer,
a man of herculean strength had closed upon him. Terrible was now the struggle--the officer
had dexterously struck the knife from his hand as he closed with him, but he could not draw
his pistols. Locked in each other's grasp they wrestled together for life: each one well knew
that death would be the lot of the vanquished,--the officer burning to revenge his comrade's
death:--Hunter struggling for life and his cherished vengeance. Gradually they approached the
spot where the agent sat watching the conflict with terrible anxiety, so absorbing as to make
him forgetful of the pain of his wound; here, by a tremendous effort the officer succeeded
in throwing his antagonist; falling, however, with him. Hunter made desperate efforts to rise,
but getting within reach of the agent in the struggle, Lambert seized his hair, and held his
head firmly down; to master his hands now, and slip a pair of handcuffs over his wrists, was,
to the powerful and practised officer, the work of a moment,--and furious with passion, but
exhausted by the struggle, Hunter lay upon the earth, a captive.

'A game fellow,' said the officer, wiping the perspiration from his brow, 'and strong as a
bear, but I've tackled as tough hands as him in my day, and so has poor Bill Maddox there.
I hope the Earl will settle a good pension on his widow--it will be sad news for her and her
four poor children:--stone dead. He took the famous highwayman, Jack Blount summut in this
way, five years ago. Well, he's gone, and as the tide is coming in, we had best be smart. That
shot was unlucky for you, Mr. Lambert, but such accidents will happen. You behaved beautifully.
I'm blowed if I thought you so fly to these things. Poor Bill--we can't move him until next
tide, but sea-water can't hurt him now. I must rouse this chuckle-headed yokel and get him
to help me.' So saying, the veteran thief-catcher lighted a dark lantern, and taking some water
sprinkled it freely over the head and face of Curly Tom. The fellow returned to consciousness,
and gazed around him--a look of ferocious joy animated his eyes, as he saw that Hunter was
taken, and drinking the brandy he had reserved unmixed in the cup, he professed his readiness
to help them.

Leaving him to guard the prisoner, first, however, removing Hunter's remaining pistol, and
even securing the discharged one, the sturdy official took the wounded agent on his back, and
crept out of the cavern. He soon returned, and with Tom's assistance removed Hunter also, who
now from the combined effects of exhaustion, liquor and the opiate, was fast becoming insensible.
Leaving one of his pistols with the agent, in case of treachery on the part of Tom, he once
more returned, and taking off the outer clothing of the dead man, fastened a cord to his feet,
and tied it firmly round a piece of rock near by. He was too used to scenes of blood to shed
a tear, but he shook the dead man's hand and said, 'Poor Bill,' as he quitted the cave. His
precautions with regard to Tom were unneeded. The ruffian's hatred had been aroused by Hunter's
suspicion, and confirmed by the blow. Nor did he refuse to start to Erith for assistance to
convey the prisoner and the wounded man there. He had been assured by the agent that no harm
should come to him, protected by the powerful influence of the nobleman; and to allow himself
to be captured had been part of the plan from the first. He had not sense enough to know that
the heavier crime of murder, now laying upon the soul of the unfortunate man, did away with
the necessity of his appearing as a witness, as it had been done in the presence of Mr. Lambert
and the officer, and they were both too wise to undeceive him. Indeed the wily agent had determined,
now that the service was rendered, to sacrifice his ruffianly tool, as his presence might be
troublesome. Tom soon returned with a posse of police officers and a cart, to convey the prisoner
and the wounded. A surgeon was with them, who dressed Mr. Lambert's wound temporarily, and
pronounced it trifling, and the party departed--Tom going with them as a voluntary prisoner.

Great were the encomiums bestowed upon the officer by his brother official, for his conduct
and bravery, and the agent also came in for his share of praise--and the whole party were in
high glee at the result, which brought one poor hunted human being under the dread ban of the
law, while he whose lust had driven him to crime revelled in luxury, and mingled with the fair
and good, courted and caressed by those who would have shrunk from expressing any sympathy
for the poor victims of his pride. Weep, angels, weep! and devils, shout for joy! Hell has
no minister so powerful as the proud man's lust.

It may be as well to mention here at once, that the agent, pursuing his plan of getting rid
of Curly Tom, much to that worthy's astonishment, pressed the charge of highway robbery against
him, before the trial of Hunter, which was postponed through the influence of the Earl, which
was indirectly exerted also to procure the condemnation of his base tool; and so it came to
pass, that after a trial, which was a mere form--for the seaman's bare deposition, which Mr.
Lambert had taken, was admitted as evidence--the good citizens of Canterbury being in want
of a little excitement, that interesting individual performed a dance upon nothing, in company
with a sheep-stealer and a forger, for their especial behoof, one fine day in September, under
the personal superintendence of that accomplished artist, Mr. John Ketch, in the presence of
a highly respectable and numerous audience, who all retired to their homes in peace, much gratified
with the exhibition, and duly impressed with a deep sense of the blessing of being permitted
to vegetate under the protection of a government so wise in its councils, so strong in execution,
and so paternal in its care for the morals of the people. So said the newspapers next day;
and thus ended the career of a heartless ruffian, it is true, but who had ever sought to make
him otherwise?

To proceed with our tale. Day was now fast breaking; and as the cortege moved away with their
prisoner, two horsemen appeared on the cliffs above, and dismounting, watched the party with
eager but disappointed looks. They were the old seaman and Edward Barnett, the village landlady's
eccentric nephew.

'A plague upon my awkward riding,' said the seaman, 'we are too late! They have taken him,
and that rascal too with him! Fool that he was to place any confidence in such a hound.'

'He had been kind to Tom's mother,' said Edward, 'and he supposed that gratitude.'

'Bah!' said the sailor; 'when you have buffeted as many of the storms of life as I have, you
will learn that gratitude is rarely found on earth--least of all in such a brutified nature
as that fellow's. But why do I blame him? He was but what the law made him. Punished for a
venial fault--sent to herd with hardened malefactors, is it wonderful that he should become
schooled in crime? And now the law will punish the criminal it made. We can do no good here--we
had best proceed to Erith. I have much to say to you, and much to do. But fear not; Hunter
shall not perish without an effort, even if I tear him from the gallows.' So saying, he remounted,
and the two slowly pursued their way towards Erith.

CHAPTER VI.

THE BEGINNING OF RETRIBUTION.

The seaman and his young companion were seated together in a little room overlooking the sea,
on the evening succeeding the events we have related. It was one of those calm, lovely evenings
when summer, seeming loth to give over her reign to the approaching fall, exerts herself to
display her utmost beauty, and withholds her scorching heat. The declining sun gave a rose
colored tint to the landscape, and the vessels passing to or from the modern Babylon added
animation to the scene. The mariner was gazing at the distant horizon, lost in thought. At the top crossed a vast hall
where many young people rushed to make way and greet with the familiarity that is used in small
towns. In the ladies room there was already enough, all dressed up, but most of them, like Cecilia,
without a mask. For Sarrio was that a surprise. In the past five years, the dances seemed visits
Liceo of condolence. Half a dozen or so young ladies, shoulders and chest into the air, face
was powdered, conversing quietly in a corner beyond the vast living room, while your moms side
drew some strips of skin from absent friends. Giving as many chickens around in the lobby, the
air sad, dull eyes, buttoning gloves each with the forks of his sisters. Were generally the same.
Every two or chicken dance three polkas, lancers rigodones with the sisters or their friends.
At noon or 0:30 squad went all in, roll up our pants and skirts, respectively, and sheltering
under the umbrella, talking aloud to through the deserted streets and humid. Neighbors, who
did not have prisoners sleep, saying: - "Now out of the Lyceum." This was everything. Don Mateo, firm,
indomitable, tenaciously preserved with loving care, this meager coals the fire of pleasure.

Thanks
to his perseverance, that night became alive and animated fire. Youth the town had the strength
to overwhelm the vile passions that stirred the hearts of their parents, and entered into this lonely
room like a raging torrent, making it resound with laughter and talks
with terrifying screams:

- Alvaro, do you know me?

Do you know me? Why do not you marry? Behold, you are walking to Villavieja.

- Parakeet, would you like? ... What lift the mask? ... What do you need? You do not fall in love
side and do well. Taking from here ... and here!

Huh? Bye bye, Parakeet.

- Hello, Delaunay ... Hello, monsieur. How's the aerial tram? What
things can you think!

What you big head! Too bad you're so unhappy! They say that there are practical man. No But did
you know fix Rato's daughter ... Bye bye ...

- What, Sinforoso? When you get the hand of Cipriana? ... Well make you grieve, man. Why not
spend the threats again to Saloncillo?

There were many ladies with black domino, who were giving these jokes, too alive sometimes.
Most of them were old. A young, they liked to show palm and the slenderness of her waist,
with a historical costume. There were ladies Venetian, Roman, the Lower Empire, Hebrew, at the
time of Louis XV, Board of Philip II, and even Pas of more recent times. There were also some Gypsies,
necromantic and captive. Could be seen Whimsical and romantic clothes, which did not support
classification, one starry night, another Tulip, another passenger pigeon with a little note to
the neck. Men generally had no costume: wearing the coat long and awkward, which only came to
light on such occasions. However, some could be seen with dominoes, which they used to come and
talk to their girlfriends, without danger of being interrupted by moms. A group of young members
of the cabin, coming this way, had the happy idea of ​​dressing Don Jaime Marin maragato. When
I had dressed this way, they told him better than a mask, suited being painted, to which he was
paid. The boy took a brush and paint box, and pretending smeared him with a thousand colors, we walked
a long time brush his face, soaked in water only. Marin requested a mirror to see. The young
thugs were careful not provide it. Everything became shouting - but what good are you, Don
Jaime! Tut painted! Neither the mother who bore him can know. Under the faith of the word, good Marín
was carried away to the Lyceum. His friends advised him not to fail to make jokes at certain
ladies, to which he replied, that would be as poultices. And indeed, so I entered the room,
started talking to the girls screaming in a falsetto voice:

- Hello, Rosarito, where have you left Anselmo? We know that every night at ten he throw a little
note from the balcony.

- But, Don Jaime! - Exclaimed the girl looked at him with surprise
.-- how come you so?

- Diablo!

Since I have known - said the good Marín away.

Went immediately to another, and it was the same.

- It's individual
- completed by said .-- All at once I know ... Be by voice, because
what is painted, so I órdago!

When I was making this reflection, a bony hand grabbed him from behind.

-
Great ass, simpleton, blockhead, who has gotten you here this way?

It was his beloved companion, the ingenious and severe Dona Brigida.

- Come on, beast, go, you always serve as a clown everywhere!

And it was getting pushed from the room. The good lady, who came disguised domino mask, then
left him third on the express orders to leave immediately and strict
home, he put it back into the center of the dance, which was a matter
of importance resolve, as we shall see.

Surrounded by a group of masks was the sympathetic Feliciano Gómez. His great pyramid peel and
shiny head, towered above pride.

Were women who were circle around him, arming din unbearable. Jokes that he lavished touched
Injury often.

- Feliciano, a miracle that you have made your sisters come to dance! What time do you have sent
retire? Dona Petra say punishes you when you are late, is it true? Poor Feliciano! How severe are
your sisters! Since you have not been allowed to marry, should give a little of freedom.

Bravo dealer, without being offended, replied with a smile kindly to those harpies. Al Finally,
tired of his patience, he was left in peace.

The adorable Pablito, properly dressed in tails, with a white flower
in his buttonhole, had out while both the Hebrew conquest of some
beautiful daughter of an artillery commander who had just arrived.

The poor thing, seeing surrendered at his feet the young richer and more handsome of the town, let
out through every pore of his handsome face flushed, the intimate joy that was upon him. What
Smiles, gestures so expressive! The girls of the population watched with an expression of mockery.
Those eyes said: - 'Enjoy, enjoy a little unhappy that soon it will be disappointment. "

Pablito, bent, submissive, the ear was pouring hot and clever phrases
such as:

- Yesterday, when Tejada came from, I saw you with your
dad, so nice weekend as usual.

- What a joker!

I also saw him.

You came in open car. Guide you very well.

- You Please Carmencita. Now guide those horses do not have anything special, does anyone. If
you could see when I bought them! Don Agapito's coachman had spoiled entirely, especially the Gallardo,
the left, you know? a little darker than another ... That was one thing missing. If it falls
into other hands, at this hour is not worth two pesetas.

Today is better than the other yet ... Matter of patience, you know - he said with mock modesty.

The
beautiful Hebrew protested

- Come on, do not you do the little that we know that you do very well.

- Patience and a little practice - Pablito repeated bathing in rose water.

Then he said with complete freedom in his opinion what was a good driver. Hand soft and firm at the
same time, the living eye, strong punishment when necessary, but not irritated; They have a
great knowledge of what are the horses. Without the careful study and thoughtful temperament of
these animals, impossible to guide regularly. Carmencita listened spellbound.

A Cecilia had approached him shortly after entering the room, Paco Flores, one engineer who
asked for her hand via Gonzalo. From that she give him pumpkin, which, as we have seen, sought
only a modest woman, industrious and with some money, was in love it and the sun chased. In Sarrió,
seeing the continuing celebration engineer the eldest of Belinchón
it was believed that only wanted to forward to the dowry.

It was a mistake. Flores had really come to love. If you stay poor Cecilia suddenly, it would
make her his wife. The latter behavior was also proper to turn his
dream.

For all his gifts and compliments always responded with kindness
and gratitude.

There was no danger that the young man withdrew from the balcony
when he was passing, and dodging their conversation when I was in
a house known or give him any of those slights that both do enjoy
most of the girls.

He was a good friend, keeping him all the attention to be the person
himself or herself.

But when the engineer wanted to move forward, asked a little love,
a ray of hope, even for tomorrow, was the very negative, smooth, firm
and consistent.

And what was worse, Cecilia, to deny he did not with pleasure, but with disgust, as if you ache
cause annoyance to a friend. This feeling further hurt the pride of the suitor.

After dancing a waltz, and sat down exhausted in a corner of the room.

Flores had caught the fan, and fanned respectfully.

- So I would like to spend my life - said in a tone sincere.

- Oh! Would soon tire - Cecilia replied smiling.

- Will you try?

The young woman replied.

- Not you, Cecilia, of women who suddenly disgusted.

Has you in his heart and his intelligence resources to have on your feet the man who loves
her. More than two years ago I live in love with you, and instead of tired, every time I feel
more connected to you, each time more desperately in love ... to the point of being mocked
by the people.

- That you can not say in advance - said she, a little touched by the fire and excitement Flores
had told his words .-- is not the same seeing a woman briefly, and
talk of Easter to Ramos, his side have it forever.

- What else would
I, Cecilia!

Have her with me always, always! - Replied quietly and shaking the engineer, playing with
the fan and staring at the floor .-- Consecration my life to serve, to worship on their knees
... I know that would make you happy any man but no one much as I
do I know the great qualities of his soul, which I guess also feelings
in his heart that perhaps are wholly unknown to others ... It's terrible!

That you do not make me conceive the slightest hope that one day, distant Anyway, my love come
to soften it, and accept me as a slave even ...

- I agree for friend,
good friend - said the girl gravely.

- Man, oh ... That friendship,
Cecilia, is an ice wall that stands between you and I ... I understand
that I have no merit whatsoever to deserve your love ... there are
one hundred young people in the village that could apply more right
... But the strange thing, which I encouraged and discouraged at the
same time, is that you have not fixed in any so far ... His heart
remains idle, indifferent ... I mean, unless you have a secret love.

Cecilia shuddered slightly and lifted her eyes a little towards the place where you could hear
Gonzalo's voice. Answered after more severely than usual:

- Allow you to study both inside, Flores, first, because the most likely be as vulgar as that of
most women, and second, because if there was any in particular it would not be easy for you to
discover.

- Do not be offended, Cecilia. This study is proof of just how much you me interest.

- Do not offend me - said the young woman .-- I tried to smile and say hello to Rosario. Do
you want take?

In the lobby, separated only by a few columns of the hall, parents chatted serious casting glances
paid to this, where they saw their daughters play. Ever, highlighted a mask dance, and came
to teasing. It was some old contemporary that made them laugh and coughing to bursting with
old stories. Don Rosendo in a corner talking to Don Melchor de las Cuevas. Explicábale a huge
project to port, impressive as all his family. Because can not represent well what science had grown
as large, in Belinchón recent years. It was a more intuitive science gained power of study, as
it happens all great men. At first when I would write in El Faro on a topic did not know, showed himself
wary, hesitant, timid. But as well the subjects learned journalism, and had at its disposal a
lot of idioms, and especially received as an encyclopedic dictionary in fifteen volumes, which
cost no less than two thousand pieces, that really was cut and crack! There was no issue or scientific
problem, social, economic and political environment in which Don Rosendo ceases to get the
scoop with great splendor.

It was the plague that was raging in cattle: Don Rosendo looking in your dictionary the words
cattle, horse, bull, sheep, feed, livestock industry, etc., and so
I read what I said about them, took the pen, and his genius was responsible
journalism draw one or more articles, brimming with philosophy and
scholarship.

He came, as now, the question port, and went to the dictionary looking for words port, dock,
tides, dredging, winds, etc. Seven articles had been written and published at the time, to
demonstrate the need to build a large dock in front of Sarrió, at one point called tundish.
He looked like a sailor consummated, tired of sailing the seas, gray in the study of hydraulic
problems. However, Mr de las Cuevas, but astounded that shuffle mode maritime terms, some
of which even he knew, wry face the verbal explanations Rosendo gave
him.

He concluded by saying, putting his hand on his shoulder

- Undeceive you Belinchón: in the dock for you, the wind brought the Northwest not enter or
sardines.

The most enjoyed at this event, who knew? was an old man, the good
Don Mateo, who was due exclusively.

For him, that meant dancing one of the great triumphs of life. More work had cost him gather there
to the bitter neighbors in the village, which take a stronghold to the Carlist Guardamino action.
She kept on all night walking, rather, to crawl from one side to another, issuing orders to
the servants, the concierge, to the orchestra.

- Gervasio, trays of candy now ... Take one on each side, garden cress! - What do you, Mr.
Anselmo? "They ask the boys instead of waltz quadrille is? As you tap quadrille .-- Let's
see, Chickens, which is a lot of ladies in the toilet without partners
to leave .-- Marcelino!

Who ever put Marcelino? Go down to the portal, which has thrown a crook a stone to the light,
and has broken .-- But Don Manuel, if not more than two! Do you want you carry and girls, and
we have not broken the piñata?

That night the good man was rejuvenated.

Enjoyed by all young people, as the mystics have a general communion. From time to time her
dim eyes were fixed above the glasses, the wooden globe hanging in
the middle of the room, and caressed him with a smile pleasure.

That exquisite artifact, come from Bordeaux, was painted with blue
stripes white.

Below it hung a multitude of ribbons of various colors, all of which,
but one would be in the hands of the girls, pulling for them.

The one given to ribbon opening the piñata being awarded the globe,
loaded, no doubt, candy, and as was said, very nice goodies.

Gonzalo, in the middle of the room, also showed himself happy, when mingling with one, when with
another lady. Had danced a quadrille with his sister, and a polka and a waltz with two friends
of his wife. Sweating profusely. He kept wiping his forehead with his handkerchief. His great
Towering figure, stood out like a tower above every head.

- What is the mayor encouraged! - One lady told Empire.

- We must take advantage of the absence of Ventura - replied the young man, laughing .-- Where
is your husband, Magdalena?

- For there walks.

- You dance with me this polka. We're going to fool our respective spouses.

- I can not. I have it committed to Peña.

As well talking to all who approached him, a woman in black domino rebujos, mask the same color,
not a moment lost sight of, now located at a point now in another, but always within walking distance
from it. Through the holes in the mask were two eyes shining and wild. Dona Brigida was the
witty companion lowered Marin lurking timely, as the baritone of Un ballo in maschera to give
the stabbing.

The victim there was a prince, here, nothing more than the mayor. The reasons that the eminent
lady had to think that crime will not be as powerful as the baritone in the eyes of a man; but
surely I look like any woman.

Sarrió Lighthouse, eager to bite at all Cabin partners, relatives and friends had taken for
three or four months, with the wife of Marin. Surfaced all domestic secrets; life marriage,
dependency and degradation of Marin were put into a caricature. It had this purpose, in print,
all more or less humorous anecdotes running through the town, and some more discovered or invented
by the thugs editors. And To make matters worse, there was number of that newspaper which in
one way or another fails to take Wig mention of Mrs. Bridget, that that fact had become popular
Sarrio.

Irritation, anger, hatred and desire for revenge that had awakened
in this lady, nobody can bear.

Suffice it to say that when he saw any editor El Faro in the street,
paled horribly could scarcely prevent him throw the neck, like a rabid
cat.

Until then had been unable to satisfy that craving devoured her revenge.

So now, looking at Gonzalo, was lapped with joy, shiver of longing,
like a tiger prey currency.

Taking advantage of a moment nobody spoke with him, went to him very
quietly and behind.

And suddenly getting ahead, spit but he said these words:

- Gonzalo, how you're so colt? You're still the fun and laughter around the world. No one person
in the dance does not know that your wife is sleeping at this hour with the Duke Lathe.

The young man was as if he had been with a mallet on the forehead.
Got thick white. He tried to grab the infamous mask to tear the mask,
but it was not possible. Dona Bridget had slipped away like an eel
through the crowd. As there were many ladies in the same outfit, impossible
to know who he was. Then he hurried out of the room. The those words
sounded in his head as fierce hammer. He feared falling. In answered
the threshold stupid smile Amicale phrases addressed to him. His uncle
don Melchor, seeing him so pale, came to him:

- What are you, Gonzalillo:
Do ​​you feel bad?

- Yes ... I'll take a cup of tea.

- I'll walk.

-
No, no, come back soon.

And ran, and left him standing near the door.

Down
the stairs. Was found in the street without realizing what he did.
Cold air of the night cooled the head and called him back in their
agreement. Suddenly he resolved leaving for Tejada. Looked around
the car and saw him no. Ramon was undoubtedly home yet. He checked
his watch. There were only two and a half. He went a long way towards
the house his father-in Rua Nueva, but when he had taken a few steps,
he said he was hatless and tails. He returned to the Lyceum. I was tried on a charge of poaching; the game laws were severe;
the justice was her creature, and despite the entreaties of my father, and the tears of my
wife, I was condemned to transportation for seven years.'

A bitter sneer was curling on the young man's lip; the mariner's face had resumed its stern
expression. 'The details of my escape from Botany Bay are unimportant. Suffice it, that I once
more reached America, and devoted my energies to tracing the fate of my child. In Savannah
I was fortunate enough to meet with the attendant of your grandmother. She had accompanied
a family of refugees from European disturbances, and from her I learned not only what I have
told you already--but that my daughter had been married, and that her husband was no other
than the son of her old mistress and your father!'

The young man threw his hands towards heaven and fell on his knees.

'O Thou, whose ways are inscrutable, blessed be thy name, for out of darkness thou hast brought
light, and turned the misdeeds of the guilty upon themselves, and made the promptings of nature
yearn in the heart of the orphan boy towards the father of my mother.'

He fell upon the old man's neck and sobbed. Such emotions are no disgrace to manhood. The mariner
strained him to his heart, and it was some time ere the emotion of both had subsided sufficiently
to enable the one to ask or the other to give further explanation. At length the mariner resumed.
'From this woman, who had recognised your father by a peculiar mark on his hand, I learned
that she had kept the papers of your grandmother and the locket, and gave them to your father;
but he treated them as fabulous, and her as an impostor. Your mother, however, gave credence
to her tale, and even consulted a lawyer; but they were not sufficient without my evidence,
and your father would not take any steps in the affair. Your mother kept her as an attendant
till her own death, but your uncle must have heard from some source of the existence of his
brother; and after his death, which happened in battle at sea, he tried to induce the widow
to give up these papers. Failing in this, by a large sum of money he tempted your nurse to
poison her, and possessed himself of them, representing himself as her husband's brother, but
concealing his rank. She was also to make away with you; but repenting of the murder of your
mother, she concealed you for some time in a distant part of the State, but he discovered her
and sold her to a Tennessee planter. It was but this year I succeeded in tracing her, and finding
her almost at the point of death, got these facts from her, regularly drawn up and witnessed.
I bought her freedom first to enable her to give evidence, and soon after her earthly account
was closed. Violetta D'Arista, your grand-mother's faithful attendant, gave me a clue by which
I traced you; and she is now in London, anxious to fold you to her breast, and to aid you as
far as in her power, to restore to you your birthright and inheritance.'

'And the papers?'

'If not destroyed, are in his possession.'

'Then I can obtain them, although he has had, as he thinks, all the subterranean passages stopped
up, yet there remains one, by which I can penetrate to his very bed-room unseen, although a
stout man could not.' The seaman mused. 'It would be dangerous. Your uncle is a brave man,
and powerful. If he awoke--and such consciences must be bad sleeping companions, you would
be sacrificed.'

'I fear not--for vengeance on my mother's murderer I would dare anything.'

'It must not be, young man. You have a sacred duty to perform, more binding far than vengeance,
which is the Lord's alone. You have to heal the sorrows of those who will be in a great measure
dependent upon you to redress the wrongs of years of oppression, to be a father to the tenants
of your wide domain, and your life must not be idly risked.'

'I have it!' said Edward, eagerly. 'You say my father was fair-haired, and I am like my mother.'

The seaman took a miniature from his vest, and handed it to him. It contained two portraits--one
of a captain in the British navy, in full uniform, his head bare, and locks of fair hair falling
even over his shoulders, for he had disdained the peruke then in fashion--and that of a lady,
whose dark eyes and raven ringlets told that her nativity had been the sunny south.

'Johnson is not unlike the portrait of my father, and is a slim man,' said Edward. 'He will
readily go with me. I will personate my mother. I am confident the papers are not destroyed,
for I have often seen him when he little dreamed an eye was upon him, examining some papers
he keeps in a small casket on his toilet, and one in particular, a document of some length,
which he has often seemed to me about to tear, but always replaced.'

'It will do,' said his grandfather. 'Good Mrs. Ally will procure you the necessary attire.
She can be trusted fully, and I will reconcile her and Johnson, so that we can all work in
concert. Those papers secured, with the evidence of Violetta and the dying deposition of your
nurse, with the evidence of the lady who took charge of your mother, and who is also alive
and in London, I doubt not soon to see you in the enjoyment of your rights. It will be a strange
anomaly--an American a British peer.'

'And then, dear grandfather, you will allow me to repay you, in a small measure, by my affection
and care of your declining years, for all the anxiety you have endured in securing my interests.'

'Not to me, young man, not to me. My lot on earth is cast. I am here a fugitive, in danger
of a felon's doom. I shall return to honest, plain America, and there devote the remainder
of my life to succoring the poor and afflicted. Do you likewise here, remembering that you
are but the steward of your wealth. Let the former oppressions of your house be forgotten in
your good deeds. Let your voice be heard in the high court of which you will be a member, whenever
the artizan and the laborer need a defender from the foul enactments that are there consummated.
Let your passions be subjected to the control of religion and morality--let no avaricious knave
oppress the hard-toiling farmer in your name, but see to these things yourself. Let your ear
be easy of access, and your heart be open, and then, my Lord, I shall be more than repaid,
you will have had a nobler vengeance than any man could give you, and will earn in truth a
right to bear the proud motto which your fathers arrogated to themselves, emblazoned, not on
your escutcheon, but in the hearts of grateful men--

"Second to none in deeds of charity."'

CHAPTER VIII.

THE END OF TWO VICTIMS.

Walter Waters, or Captain Williams, as he called himself now, and in fact He had come to England
ostensibly as the commander of a trading vessel, had determined to effect the escape of Horace
Hunter. That his own plans might not be disarranged by any violence towards the Earl, he had
on an accidental meeting in the West Indies promised Hunter a more full revenge if he waited
for three years; and feeling that his capture had in some measure been owing to his appointment,
he revolved in his mind many plans for his rescue. His trial had taken place, and as the evidence
was conclusive, he was condemned to death. As his friends were now permitted to see him, Walter
with his daughter to whom and his father he had made himself known in private, although he
still stopped at Mrs. Ally's when not in London, obtained permission to visit the doomed man.
Who shall attempt to portray the feelings of Mary Waters, as in company with the parent so
long mourned as dead, she set forth to hold the last communication on earth with him to whom
the treasure of her young love had been given. Joy at once more beholding her father mingled
in painful intensity with her heart's desolation when she contemplated the fearful position
of her lover; and to her father's assurances of rescuing him, of reclaiming him and of their
union and a happy life in America, she only replied by a mournful feature, and pointing to
her own emaciated form and hectic cheek. Her beauty had now assumed an almost unearthly character.
The lustre of her dark blue eye and deathly paleness of her cheek told indeed her race was
nearly run. As they all stood together in the steward's house on the morning of their visit,
they formed a strange and touching group. The bowed figure of the aged man whose life had been
prolonged so far beyond the usual term of man's existence, the strong form of the mariner,
whose vigor was unabated although near sixty, and the wasted figure and sharpened features
of his daughter, who though scarce more than past the threshold of womanhood, was yet closer
to the dread abyss of eternity than either. The old steward looked wistfully after them as
they passed out into the wintry air.

Hunter's passion for drink, his remorse for the officer's death, his burning thirst for vengeance,
and his own sense of self-abasement--all conspired to add to the fever of his brain; and when
Walter and his daughter were admitted to his cell, it was a gibbering maniac that rushed forward
to meet them. No country, not to be under the yoke of tyranny invincible,
has more government than they give and deserve. How much is strongest in Spain, more enlightened,
more discreet, and has ruled. Just be a man left note in every game that has not been minister.
If they are all unfit, strength is conjecture that Spain does not anymore.

No lack of people our backwardness attributed to any love to the welfare and luxury to we are
happy and satisfied to live badly, and not feeling the sting of desire for enjoyment, we chose
not to work. This reasoning is absurd for the falsity of the premise on which is based. All
men, and peculiarly the Spanish, except for some fancy, prefer eating foie gras and truffles to
eat turkey and scrambled chanfaina, rich dress and velvet drapes, to wear cloth, living in a palace,
to live in a hut, and going by car, go on foot. It is not an occult science to know that there
are cars, good cuisine and excellent dishes, fabrics silk, gold and precious stones, and many
other delightful objects, nor is it necessary to have a very soul lifted to covet. No one not
ambitions. If you desire, desire to be rich, wealth depended, Spain is one of the world's richest
nations.

It follows therefore that we do not know why poor Spain, unless we claim, and this I I lean,
who are poor quality opposite to that just mentioned: the love of luxury, extravagance, by disorder,
because we are very lavish indiscreetly and generous, and above all, because we do not spend and spend
without discretion and without splendor.

Suffer from this defect and have traditionally suffered in Spain for individuals and the state.

At
the time of Philip II, when we were at the peak of prosperity, when
dominábamos and despojábamos many regions where

The land yielded
their miners us, His pearls and coral Ocean;

Campanella was astounded
that so much wealth is dissipated without knowing how, and we're always
without real and borrowing.

    "Est, said, admiration dignum, so
    divitiarum consumatur quomodo vis, Ullo sine emolument, cum fere
videamus Regem laborare perpetual destitution, atque etiam ab mutual
ALIIS accipere.

"The same thing happened then between individuals in the State. In No country can say with
more truth than in Spain, it is not known where the money goes. By late Austrian dynasty which had ruled
over the world's best, Madrid was (let me vulgar expression) a cattle pen. Where were the palaces,
temples, monuments, statues? Anywhere. What we spend the wealth of America? What used the loot
of the subjugated peoples?

The destitution we worked so much or more than in the day, and humbled us destitution and made
us lowering of the height at which we had set.

On this day, the upward movement of European civilization itself bears us, and can not be denied
that in the midst of a thousand disappointments, one thousand two
hundred thousand troubles and mortifications of national pride, Spain
progresses and improves, but it costs good whipping.

Clumsiness in producing and slurred spend more to blame for these scourges.

I am a rabid theoretical free-forex trader. Bastiat and Cobden have convinced me, but in I'm scared
practice of free trade. What is in Spain that can compete freely
with foreign products?

The wine perhaps, and with everything except the sherry, the other wine Spanish usually go
to France, I throw a little juice of berries, and alum root lily, and we will re-sell, giving
us a single bottle in the price we receive one or two or three arrobas.
 Midnight had long passed when he retired
to his chamber, harassed and jaded by the efforts he had made to preserve appearances, and
still more irritated by the wine he had drank. A vague feeling of horror moreover began to
steal over him. He looked out upon the moonlight and drew his head in with a shudder, for he
fancied--it was but fancy, that he saw a body lying upon the ground. He tried to nerve himself
to the task of destroying the documents, but could not bring himself to touch the casket. At
length he opened the casket; a deep groan seemed to issue from it. The long low musical laugh
he had heard before sounded in the room. The next moment he hardened himself and began to read
them over. They consisted of the letters mentioned before, his father's marriage certificate,
and the addition of a still more important document--a statement drawn up by his father a little
before his death, in which he acknowledged Captain Piercy, the name his son had been known
by, prayed for forgiveness for the wrong he had done his mother, and fully acknowledged his
marriage with the fair Italian. This was the document which had led the countess to persecute
Captain Williams, and her son to murder his brother's widow. He read them slowly through, and
taking them in his hand walked towards the fireplace; he was about to cast them in, when the
same low mocking voice sounded so close him--he turned and beheld an appalling spectacle. The
picture of his own mother, that had occupied a large compartment of the room, had entirely
disappeared, although but the instant before he had seen it--and in its place appeared the
figures of a man in a full dress naval uniform, and a lady in the costume of the one he had
murdered in distant America. He gave one wild shriek and fell senseless on the floor. To seize
the papers was to Edward, whom our readers will easily guess to have personated the lady, but
the work of a moment; he regained the panel and swung it to just as the domestics were hurrying
up; not however before he had fixed upon the toilet with a penknife of the Earl's, a paper
with the word "doomed!" in large characters traced upon it.

CHAPTER IX.

THE AGENT'S PUNISHMENT.

The village bells tolled mournfully, and the stout farmers looked with Saddened faces at each
other on the morning which was to consign to earth the remains of Mary Waters. Matrons held
their aprons to their eyes as they followed the melancholy procession. She was laid by her
own request in the same grave with Ellen Hunter. The old clergyman who had loved her as his
daughter, faltered as he read the solemn words, "I am the resurrection and the life," and when
the ceremony was concluded, there was not an eye that was not filled with tears. When the old
steward heard the earth fall upon the coffin lid, his frame was seen to quiver, he fell forward,
and his spirit had departed. They laid him by the side of his grand daughter the next day;
and it was soon ascertained that he had left the bulk of his savings to the poor children of
Johnson, and that Mrs. Alice Goodfellow was appointed sole executrix.

Rumors now began to circulate about the Earl--a claim had been laid in due form by Edward--and
the tumult which raged in his heart was indescribable. Yet he dared to think of vengeance,
and swore an oath to have the heart's blood of those who had humbled him. As he approached
the house of the agent he determined to ask his aid in carrying out his schemes. Mr. Lambert,
however, had no intention of being dragged down into the vortex, and received him coldly.

'This is not the reception I expected, Mr. Lambert.'

'I beg your pardon sir.'

Sir!--how the word grated on the ear, that had been accustomed to 'my lord,' and that in the
humblest tone; 'I merely wish to intimate, Mr. Lambert, when it is your gracious pleasure to
listen, that I want a word or two with you.' He spoke in his old sneering tone; the other,
who from habit, remained standing in his presence, bowed; but he did not answer a word. 'Since
you cannot, or will not speak--hear one thing; for your interest is thereby affected; and that
I suppose will reach you--do you suppose, that those who have attacked the master, will let
the servant escape. Will not even the great Mr. Lambert, be required to give an account of
his stewardship; when so humble an individual as myself, has been deemed worthy of notice?'--he
bowed with mock humility. 'My accounts are prepared to undergo the strictest investigation.
My--sir--' said the agent, recovering his self possession the instant business was mentioned,
'both as regards the estate and personal account, my balances are correct--that of the estate
which yet remains unsettled I am ready to account for to--the proper parties--' (he substituted
for the new Earl's name which rose to his lips,) 'the small balance on the personal account
which is in my favour, I shall be happy to take your note for--properly endorsed.' The man
of business had been so occupied with the figures he was running up in his mind, that he had
failed to observe the gathering storm on his companion's brow; he had been so used to hold
down his head while speaking to his patron, that even now he could not forego the habit; but
the last word had not passed his lips fully--ere the earl rose from his seat, and seizing the
heavy brass lamp upon the table between them, struck the unfortunate man a tremendous blow
with it, which prostrated him to the floor; smashing in a portion of his skull, and inflicting
a mortal wound; the agent groaned and lay senseless; the servants rushed to the scene on hearing
the fall, but the furious appearance of the murderer terrified them, particularly as he still
held in his hand the weapon he had used; he burst through them, and mounting his horse at the
door, fled as though pursued by all the fiends of hell.

CHAPTER X.

RETRIBUTION.

Regardless of the wintry storm, the murderer spurred on the noble animal he rode; he had no
purpose in the flight, he had arranged no plan of escape; unused to act for himself, his movements
were all uncertainty: now he reined in his horse, and listened as if for pursuers, but none
came: now fancying he heard the mocking laugh he had so often heard, he dashed forward, as
if the furies were behind him; the storm meanwhile increased in its violence, he felt it not;
the warfare of the elements was calmness to the tumult of his heart; he looked up to the heavens,
but there on the edge of every lurid cloud, he saw it, he saw them; not one but hundreds: maidens
with stony blue eyes, all glaring upon him; he looked upon the earth, a gibbering madman was
running by his side, howling and hooting in the wind; now so near as almost to touch him: now
hundreds of yards away, but always the same; behind him with his ghastly mangled head, came
the form of his last victim, forward! forward! while the crashing thunder pealed above his
head; he shook his impious hand against the sky, and still darted onward, till the horse stopped,
snorting on the beach; and there as the great sea, rolled in foaming and turgid, there, he
saw it plain in yon glare of livid lightning, on the crest of every curling wave, a dark haired
lady lay, glaring at him with eyes that looked like coals of fire; a monster wave came rolling
in, and the frightened horse turned, and seizing the bit between his teeth sped homeward, but
still he saw them in the clouds behind, before, beckoning to him, calling to him, in the voice
of the great wind; on, on, towards the castle gates, he looked up to the battlements; they
were there, on every turret's top, on every pointed arch, from every window, visible to him,
as though it had been bright daylight he saw them. And all this without the fraud, with the mockery, with what is commonly called the
premium. By colored glass beads, nails and other trinkets, taking mates as Captain Cook was
good and exquisite in Otahiti. Day dawned, and when the red sun
rose, it shone upon a corpse; the storm had ceased, but the wind had blown the snow from off
it, and the laborer who found the body, rushed from the spot in terror at the horrible expression
of the dead man's face.

CHAPTER XI.

CONCLUSION.

Three years have passed away,--the young Earl has arrived at age, and is coming to take possession
of his domains--after finishing his education at Oxford; great preparation has been made to
welcome him. Foremost on the occasion is Mrs. Alice Goodfellow, and as their Lord's reputed
aunt for so many years, she is a person of no small importance:--still single, but beginning
to think of settling now, as her glass gives awkward reflections,--but still balancing the
claims of her admirers, though she does give color to the report of shewing a preference for
the sturdy blacksmith;--by her side, smartly dressed, are gamboling about the young Johnsons,
while their father, in a respectable suit of black, marshals the somewhat unruly procession
of maidens and youths chosen to receive the young Earl. He is now the steward, (agent is a
name he wisely discards,) and a great man, but young girls and boys from sixteen to twenty
have a trick of paying no attention to the wisdom of their elders, and he is sorely put to
it to maintain order. Spring has planted her fair feet upon the daisied green, and a huge May-Pole
has been erected, as in the olden time, an ox is roasted whole upon the lawn, tables are spread
out under the shade of the great elms and sturdy oaks, foaming barrels of mighty ale, such
as Guy of Warwick drank, ere he encountered the dun cow, are seen with taps ready in them,--the
children are dancing round the May-Pole in wild glee,--and now a scout posted on a rising ground
comes tearing towards them as though life and death defended on his speed,--the carriage is
coming,--a cheer arises,--it has passed the gates, and is coming up the avenue. Laziness, waste and incompetence, "can not occur in a nation as given
in a guy?

I do not fear any European nation, no matter how fraught it is for the above ailments, come at last
to be lost and destroyed, as were destroyed and lost those colossal empires the center of Asia,
as those powerful civilizations collapsed, wonder of the world old. I do not fear to Madrid,
Seville, Lisbon or Florence, you will come to pass Sidon and Tyre that, Susa, Ecbatana, Nineveh
and Babylon Bactra. Although consume much more of what they produced, the punishment would
be limited to long periods of forced abstinence and pitiful plight, that the delay in relation
to other peoples of Europe were higher, and to continue dragging and dropping like a trailer
the other nations. But such is faith I have in progressive virtue, in the vital energy of European
civilization I can not even conceive that a nation that is dying in her womb powerful and exhilarating.
However, the withdrawal of which we spoke, the troubles, going to the trailer and shame backwardness
and inferiority, they are still tough punishment.

To discourse, from a fixed point on these issues so difficult, should first explain why certain phenomena
which offers modern European civilization, phenomena it seems contrary to everything that in
ancient civilizations was noticeable, whence there now comes the award, given by axiomatic, and are
entirely contrary to other sentences that little has passed through
also axiomatic.

In the old, and in the old saying do not go very far (Michael Montaigne and Machiavelli thought
so), rudeness and poverty was thought that gave impetus to the nations and nerve while wealth and
culture of the enervated. Alejandro was poor and rich beat Darius poor and rough were subjugated
by the Romans and the enlightened, educated and wealthy kingdoms of Macedonia, Syria and Egypt.
When the Goths invaded Greece, reports that tried to burn all libraries, but a clever and discreet
captain of the Goths had to persuade them to libraries were effeminate
Greeks, docks and cowardly, and that this was appropriate leave the
books to have them always under the yoke. Ten years from this day, if such of you as are spared,
and I am one, will meet me here again, I will render to you an account of my stewardship, and
then if you can raise again the cheers with which you have this day greeted me, poor Edward
Barnett will be more than rewarded for his trials, and the Count de Montford the happiest of
his race.' The glorious sun shone full upon his manly form and handsome features, and as cheer
upon cheer arose, not one that looked upon his open truthful countenance, feared he would not
redeem his promise, or disgrace the proud motto emblazoned on the banners that waved high above
his head on the battlements;--Nulli Secundi,--Second to none.

POSTSCRIPT.

THE AUTHOR TO THE READER.

Gentle reader! if thou hast been interested in this tale of human hopes and fears--of stern
retribution on the wicked, if thou hast shed a tear over the fate of the gentle and the good--thou
wilt perhaps be anxious to know more of him, who at the close of our tale, we left--in life's
young morning brightness--with wealth and power to aid in his path. Did he fall from his high
estate, did prosperity dim the lustre of his promise, (and methinks some gentle maiden asks,
how sped he in his love.) If thou hast borne with our tediousness, and hast not fainted--fear
not, we will inflict upon thee yet more.

  What all thy tediousness on me? (Leonato)

  Yes, please your worship. (Dogberry.)

If thou hast been disgusted at the gloomy record, and kicked the book from thee,--Why then
farewell, so end the hopes of poor

TOBY ACONITE,

E SCRIBE.

