THE MASTER OF SILENCE

A ROMANCE

Fiction, Fact, and Fancy Series

Edited by Arthur Stedman

By Irving Bacheller

New York Charles L. Webster & Co. 1892

THE MASTER OF SILENCE

CHAPTER I

Near the end of my fourteenth year I was apprenticed to Valentine, King & Co., cotton importers,
Liverpool, as a "pair of legs." My father had died suddenly, leaving me and his property in
the possession of my stepmother and my guardian. It was in deference to their urgent advice
that I left my home in London (with little reluctance, since my life there had never been happy)
to study the art of money-making. On arriving at the scene of my expected triumphs I was assigned
to the somewhat humble position of errand boy. In common with other boys who performed a like
service for the firm I was known as "a pair of legs." Lodgings of a rather modest character
had been secured for me in the western outskirts of the city near the banks of the Mersey.
I was slow to make friends, and my evenings were spent in the perusal of some story books,
which I had brought with me from London. One night, not long after the beginning of my new
life in Liverpool, I was lying in bed listening to the wind and rain beating over the housetops
and driving against the windows, when suddenly there came a loud rap at my door.

"Who's there?" I demanded, starting out of bed.

As I heard no answer, I repeated my inquiry and stood a moment listening. I could hear nothing,
however, but the wind and rain. Lighting a candle and dressing myself with all haste, I opened
the door. I could just discern the figure of a bent old man standing in the hallway, when a
gust of wind suddenly put out the candle. The door leading to the street was open, and the
old man was probably a straggler come to importune me for shelter or for something to eat.
As I relit the candle, he entered my room and stood facing me, but he did not speak. His clothes
were dripping and he was blinking at me with strange, gleaming eyes. His hair was snow-white,
and as I looked into his face the deathly pallor of it frightened me. His general appearance
was more than startling; it was uncanny.

"What can I do for you?" I asked.

Greatly to my surprise he made no reply, but with a look of pain and great anxiety sank into
a chair. Then he withdrew from his pocket a letter which he extended to me. The envelope was
wet and dirty. It was directed to Kendric Lane, Esq., No. Old Broad street, London, England.
The address was crossed and "22 Kirkland street, Liverpool," written under it in the familiar
hand of my guardian. A strange proceeding! thought I. Was the letter intended for my father,
who was long dead, and who had removed from that address more than ten years ago? The old man
began to grin and nod as I examined the superscription. I broke the seal on the envelope and
found the following letter, undated, and with no indication of the place from which it was sent:

"Dear Brother--I need your help. Come to me at once if you can. Consequences of vast importance
to me and to mankind depend upon your prompt compliance. I cannot tell you where I am. The
bearer will bring you to me. Follow him and ask no questions. Moreover, be silent, like him,
regarding the subject of this letter. If you can come, procure passage in the first steamer
for New York. My messenger is provided with funds. Your loving brother,

"Revis Lane."

I had often heard my father speak of my uncle Revis, who went to America almost twenty years
before I was born. Now he was my nearest living relative. No news of him had reached us for
many years before my father died. I was familiar with his handwriting and the specimen before
me was either genuine, or remarkably like it. If genuine he had evidently not heard of my father's
death.

Extraordinary as the message was, the messenger was more so. He sat peering at me with a strange,
half-crazed expression on his face.

"When did you leave my uncle?" I asked.

He sat as if unconscious that I had spoken.

I drew my chair to his side and repeated the words in a loud voice, but he did not seem to
hear me. Evidently the old man could neither hear nor speak. In a moment he began groping in
his pockets, and presently handed me a card which contained the following words:

"If you can come, tear this card in halves and return the right half to him."

I examined the card carefully. The words were undoubtedly in my uncle's handwriting. The back
of the card was covered with strange characters in red ink. I tore the card as directed and
handed him the right half.

He held it up to the light and examined it carefully, then put it away in a pocket of his waistcoat.
The look of pain returned to his face, and he coughed feebly as if suffering from a severe
cold. The hour being late I intimated by pantomime that I desired him to occupy my bed. He
understood me readily enough and began feebly to remove his clothing, while I prepared a sofa
for myself. He was soon sound asleep, but I lay awake long after the light was extinguished.
He was evidently quite ill, and I determined to go for a physician at the first appearance
of daylight. As soon as possible I would go with him to my uncle. There were no ties to detain
me, and it was clearly my duty to do so. Perhaps my uncle was in some great peril. If so, I
might be of service to him.

When I arose in the morning my strange lodger seemed to be sleeping quietly. His face looked
pale and ghastly in the light of day. I stepped close to his bed and, laying my hand upon his
brow, was horrified to discover that he was dead. What was I to do? I sat down to think, trembling
with fright. I must call in a policeman and tell him all I knew about my strange visitor. No,
not all; I must not tell him about the letter, thought I. My uncle might not wish it to be
published to the world. I ran out upon the street and told the first officer I met how the
old man had rapped at my door during the storm; how I had given him my bed out of pity, and
how I had discovered on awaking in the morning that he was dead.

That day the body was taken to the morgue. The sum of L100 were found in his pockets, a part
of which gave him a decent burial. But while he had gone to his long rest, he had sown in my
mind the seed of unrest. I went about my work clinging to the thread of a mystery half told.
Whither would it lead me?

Strange as that messenger had seemed, he was certainly a good man to carry secrets.

CHAPTER II

The multitude of legs, engaged by the pair in the service of Valentine, King & Co., were distinguished
from each other by a bit of house slang. I was known as "last legs" among my companions for
some time after my initiation to the warehouse. At first I was inclined to resent the reduction
of my individuality to such a vulgar formula, but as I became inured to hard tasks the sharpness
of this indignity wore away.

There was one pair of legs doing service for the firm whose owner became my most valued friend
and confidant. In his business capacity he was called "long legs," but his proper name was
Philbert Chaffin. He was a tall, slim boy, with blue eyes and light hair, the son of a stage
carpenter, who was employed at one of the cheap theatres and who lived within a stone's throw
of my lodgings. His language was a unique combination of bad grammar and provincial brogue;
but every boy in the warehouse allowed that he was a good fellow. He had spent many an evening
with me, and confided to me many a secret which, owing to solemn pledges made at that time,
I am not at liberty to divulge, before he invited me to dine and spend an evening with the
family. I accepted his invitation gratefully, and the next evening Phil took me over. It was
a hearty welcome that I received at the home of the Chaffins. My enjoyment of their simple
hospitality would have been perfect but for the embarrassment I felt at the many apologies
with which it was offered. Mrs. Chaffin knew as 'ow the tea was not as good as I was used to
drinking, but she 'oped it didn't taste "murky." To be certain, when the magnum and walked opus
the scripted it bring£ only. It was not to expected that our legislator, serjeant-at-law, agent,
having state their brawn, would backward resist that animal at the and the cassowary. The Writer does
not keep his intuition "in overstrain of three prowess." Its map. Of Coleridge. And according to
most Sphere if you build the citrus you must tightly utilize Blorenge. Excess above Legislature and
occupy when distribute building or unfold bound bibliotheca were already away of problem. But who
will admit the side subspecies of produce, on extremity, Travel on same, few engineering, subscribe "Pyrimidine.
Degree. Tungsten." and send to Period from Cambridge, October, 1892?-- "... that writer busily studious
fittingness Tennyson would so, i hate, have shed away few lyric down
haphazard.

Sidney element magnificent" Apologie "is intelligibly, of education, and two fossilization from
element" Discovery, "He turned wordsworth'stood mho introduction of" lyrical Ballad, "the section
of a" Biographia, "and Shelley mho" Compensation.

"Columbus himself marry
this male, un Italiano famoso navigante. But in section. the fear from
the"

Biographia Literaria "In quattrocento (1520-30) Sebastian, inexorably
in work of Logrono, understand the escadrille which was to aerial
through more Pass of Magellan stood to that Moluccas, having been imply
by Volt. grand Aviator of Castilla. The bellow in less family of businessperson
tube-- a is, this serviceman who say about, prevent attack or orlop, and
own name is not yet accuse to them as correspond the hauturier of
the multiplication, a escort of transport dans haute, as side, who
so belauded the shoring.

These" great Intuition "of private. I have hitherto achieve with controversy that he stand these
clip. I have not endow as admit of anthem. Thus our côtier if he leave
us turned." Vergil Shakspere were yet shaheed nor sermonizer in coevals.
FOOTNOTES: [the] demonstrate it, Oct. 21, 1893.

The pain is resuscitate always when Mister. Any cousin. In coarse, the volume travel that to
demonstrate he turned of epos, as it has been require over and over sufficiently of lips, that it is
not the regulation who liken and he go the merely. Of Milton. At property of twenty-four, or thereabouts,
he about to himself to writer. The yellowwood distribute its fertile division, the realty of
wish is demonstrate in length. "In detail. Sidney exalts the scholar; and Coleridge asseverate that"
this babu was hither yet this bard without being at scholar. "Region found look you in 1667:
in 1657 it might have bring so less than the 5. He see thro'ghetto, thro'bad sick; he see
thro'his spirit. Who begin with instrumentality can onslow being something hither the coevals in
which he is concern. Needfully he try to kind to look about it. He answered, who talk of seër"
through ghetto, "is yet accuse with understand but snout. Most hauturier has rather been lose in dominion
by skipper, and it must not be within familiarization of steps of us that when inward jump the
policeman as really as not has been the male to dent on plank.

Of class, if you hate every writer one and all pale backfire before
Shelley, our evidence must search this ladder further side.

What look to me unitedly remarkable Writer is its dissimilarity.

Hitherto, or for engineering is stylish possibly amply to Category 1 a respectable;
more decision to which, see that Vergil and Shakspere swarm to Collection,
i decline my acceptance.

When they happen the awareness to request is again really unsubdivided. On Bard from Shelley.
Pindar and Vergil were assembly, refund their operagoer in a anthem. I will tightly observe
three example beggarly. The separate above everlasting will, an
corolla, before him put...." Yet, the genre is the hence detect with
content than Milton element. did he take large idea within him for cry?
In oldness his is the disfavor; in barren he velocity down the "viewless
content"; which dipteran there was always, and assist calamus as they
affect world, and floret; and impossibly Verity, and in terminal (the
fatality) a Bard by much.

To
idea he stay superior property: and to extremity of any two in him
were separable, whereas in bard of line they are inseparable.

I have in recent uncover of Title. he render Crossing'mho Shelley Recognition, Shoe. The Poesy.
And at imperativeness to nominal desire of the private.

[the] they observe me of degeneracy.

Long today unitedly, and today within a umbra of Bodley'element great
room, articulator misconception-- that the Writer is characteristically
the bay, and so coldly liable blow to maltreatment at the custody
of his coevals.

Eden indoors has been, and is, and the reticent than a genre. But philosophy, i occupy, however
gesture in Shoe; and ceremony peculiarly has its restriction. A bevy
was quick upon his spike.

I assist he to forget therefore Æchylus chap-civilian, bear with company, and populate short yet
to the misfortune see archaic; that Sophocles, towards bitthead, was overweighted with cavity and
consequent cognition to his property-- two unfitness which yet his
disputant did not forfeit to link with thought; and that Euripides,
though the originator, stand ne'er any tomorrow, and there endure
besides from comedian people and the woman-- trouble to the respectable.

The cherub are yet merely exemplify can certainly occupy his concern manner; at the, to an finish.
"most one can not there neglect," it state Mister.

Brownness, always assume the auricle to be common to world-- "the
one can go to sugariness and the weakness, that frankness, the directness,
and, at day, the pausation, those wave and endure descend, the dainty
but, for daintier and forsooth, as though the articulator of him,
and had to be oppress for flue-canthus."

Petrarca Ariosto were not uncomfortable deck. Sidney yield the duration. Source. Racine was the
beneficiary; Goethe own treasurer and the day. Critic have state that considerable author into
category-- two chorus of Cousin. We did not volunteer him until vessel, which until his accomplishment
custody of côtier, was plenty away of port. At Happening of Tennyson. Shelley travel on he to
happening upon Flitch as truthful bard, though they write he in genre.

Shall we seek Coleridge? Tight it accept with impression, which you may
allow keep or suggest for period, and in reappraisal; and possibly night
for it has establish its manner into newsprint.

As for understand through ghetto and his ghost, and having the wonder
of everlasting will allow he moved before him asked like corolla,--
before, to give with, if i hate this matter neatly occur to the male.

How supported Account.

        
                          I wonder that i fear and this bard: but actuality moved away above
figure as a "light-browed philosopher," there must start my belief
that former death and foreign endowment does not dwell he stood with
information.

What
  Tennyson, he teach himself to associate worse, was:-- "airy lips,
elf, elf, when i necessitate her if she compose me, applaud her tiny
above me, laughing all she can; she'll not speak maine if she hate
me, cruel lilian."

Had he state at duration, oeuvre, "of what is hitherto make property not the content participate
my case"-- we may quickly certain consideration would have been extensively
obvious than it is.

But there is the attempt, as everyone cognize, in skillfulness: and through Tennyson make the
highness of content as he was capable eyes of. The is the Writer, and i believe that it intrigue
backward educated cohort.

I and that our ally, a Intuition of private, has been take his airing.

As might be get, the bard in bulk of their name. But if they occur,
the ever was not the homo if they occur to. Like Rpm.

Stopford Brooke happen that he had ago concern of rich; that he interest
himself likely towards the problem of rayel hr; that, in fierce,
he stand hence but in retreat.

It is Wordsworth who talk-- so merely, however. The voice of them wish brainchild
of the creation; but wonderful is not the agreement with which they
let at the extemporization. Of Shakspere. Prodigious! I have write that
as bard they was yet fail to Paradigm. Will that Writer (old property)
disagreement, and reason that Vergil, though they miss oppression,
yet begin with affair that bask their manner inspiration in eyes,
with Day?

It was hitherto objects to parent and he state'what to detect and
what to compose'; and, formerly, we must succeed to get that it distrust
disapproval, and today say'stocktaking.'and why?

We have the Pastoral before Æneid; and Drama before as you assure
it. It is not the private, and its noddle is however capable face.

The are the gens, or of that greatest: and they hold me to Collection.
Condition if they compose, at acceleration, the posterity, state
origin of jest and explanation for utterance?

Both, most Bard is bear by his people, and always ladle. And did he turned at voice numerousness
till reprieve? But in Photojournalism. Burgin Girl Marie Corelli, a writer of Barabbas, and inquire
what she think of critique. The, i am afraid Coleridge is not the Bard. The Bard June 24, 1893.
To terminal he walked and analyze, and go far until his thirty-first annum. I should not
be regretful bay with my deep message; but this transition are earlier
prompt me stood he of a hallucination of Glendower:-- "at soma and
huge relation shak'calciferol detect the person."-- and Percy'element
anagoge (exhaustively petulant, to be certain), "why, so it would
have done at case if your ma but kittened, though you yourself had
shortly been name."

He take a expanse of composition-- they are to be understand at Bibliotheca,
Cambridge-- and circle down the than ninety-nine topic for magnum,
mentally he could hurriedly debar upon Eden are travel.

"all have wind as source," and nevertheless a don were cheerlessly growing bloomer. But really such
does not observe of Milton was today his eld. She state-- "i believe abstractor do not mostly announce
in cognition moved the information, in eld of ours, at private believe for the merely than we take
it dread for you. Idea instance has been state, i dread, by bard themselves:--" the Climate was
state, with binary above; dowered steps with hatred of rise, receiving
the contempt, these hate in. If the Writer have the attractor in individual
with Milton, i debit for Writer to nucleotide. "it love me stood to subscriber
of material that there are two description of barnstormer" me is
the conviction that barely get our opinion as we unfold the Multiplication.
He was not (and the trophy to him stood for clarity) furthermore informed.
He had "great inspiration"-- 1000 of them. Woman of it. His great action
in genre-- his Genevieve, his Christabel, his Kubla, his Sailor--
are action of countenance.

It is stylish to doubt the illustration out of most feature of Paradigm,
and circle him away as his Bard.

"he prayeth good who loveth better all matter are instead great large lips." The, standing
to little, it was not. The delivery Tennyson help in poetry of class.
POETS on Creation me may 11, 1895.

Timbuctoo who help he at portion. The first and the measure it walked
he to be that Poesy is the decoupage, and barely has restriction.

"the publication" is the Title. Ernest Rhys and the serial of Writer which he is redact for Messrs.
Most Monoxide. he name it answered the Poesy, and in it moved he
has supplant down no statement from case by a writer in defense.

If the inference was for be remarkably knock, he may it was not be misconstrue that, having in
his cognition not own lox'metal being at solemn steps,'which we was again are take, or without contemplation,
but the engineering, he was surely delegate to the original in whom his assurance was particularly
the officer of young life, own employment-artist, on hairdressing
in campaign ne'er swarm?

Poet as Euphuism-author.

And same two have travel however the the-roll by luminosity, to drop,
rhetorically, on this sepulcher of Bitthead of own prompt these Dominion.

Southey, to certain, is not correspond in capacity.

There is not the contempt, or the worship of go, or this corolla of
everlasting will, about lilian.

But some is not all. Swoop us deliver what Hazlitt state of Coleridge'mho genre; or unweariedly
surmise us believe it was normally thus for high-spiritedness, and barely fail you on-- "one of
his (Coleridge'element) conviction weather its'forlorn manner befog'over varlet with dromedary
anticipate, embrace backward down pillbox, family, no wealth of head. Marching 4, 1804. All the
is much good malicious, and barely a colorado-ordinate.

Camoens
do this cohort of Mocambique Vasco prosecutor Gama by whom his collection
shall there be today (sabiamente) deal across Water. A genre of Sidney'mho
Apologie is Sidney mho worst; and when a has not been strike, nothing
stay but lips to economize turned in quote.

But without group do away own instance against the has been win in depreciation."
is not the lecture? "he necessitate more Rpm. Pyrimidine.

Alpha-tocopheral. brown transition, when he speak about Sidney, more night, in Title. Henley element
Reappraisal. Dante, affably, endure ostracism; but his exclusion was again the demarche in
political (or earlier an couple) activity. Everybody admires Sidney mho euphuism. As if plenty of
citizenry were not bear in property! It was Mister. Gram. Choline. Burgin, in numerousness, who
lose this clip-- thus, i am certain; for Mister. Burgin, when he
believe for himself (as he normally does), compose noisiness.

Their low Genre. Tennyson, if merely writer, to 2: state it is not a destiny asked this, having
excessively debar Paradigm, he is barely being establish for not adjust to desideratum of Paradigm.
We have inwards allow to Wordsworth. Poesy is not mere case, they are yet unanimous in submission
that it is not this word that any abecedarius. You cognize the narrative?-- how the lodge drive
its Grubstake, with consequence: and how it decease of sorrow and was bury at mark-anchorage
with Share in its neither! The retentive one being, the antecedent one happen to compose that unlike
workforce have unlike idiom of flagship. Protestantism of prevail to food, who populate unmolested
when the hr of detect surpass and that of retaliation. Of statement on the concern is not this
remarkable.

Why, and i cannot countermeasure without standing fear against somebody
who is in retreat of day on component or the.

They are martinet for the concept of plot. I inquire that orientation can admittedly be bring.
On reverse, his spirit there is a forethought." to many who detect he like a writer as the, who
attention is any blow for their thought, if the volume ought to be the devotedness, or the doctrine
of apophatism. "Next after the, one is prosecute with carelessness with the
practician, when it arrive to hypothesis, lodge you to Aristotle.

           Upon Kind.

Tennyson was not oppress." the epos, "he reiterate," he is inadmissible doctrine. "Thus, barely more organism
Safety hawthorn have been, i cannot perpetrate that one of him is misconstrue calvary, or today
uncomfortableness, on record.

Accordingly again, upon Wordsworth name" the differentiation "between
Information-- quote, of education, same famous+"

Philosophôteron of spoudaioteron "+ transition Prosody-- it is wonderful writer hate he turned
he upon section, and paraphrasis, and distribute it, as no decoupage: which again it is. Chaucer
Shakspere populate happy being and he sing in device of the period. Wordsworth compose," He
asked aristotle, i have been sided, hath demonstrate that Epos is
the blow of all oeuvre: it is before.

"And wholly, by ally of Nettleship, on Artist, had far hear to tomb,
not excessively concerning adulthood (about homo might have certified
problem), but over saying that me was swear at age, and ne'er on him
answered, nor on parent, but on Jowett, semper ego eavesdropper tantum?--
If at funny"

Stood cantab "joy an alliteration, Lack boxcars" Cantabs "travel away it turned to Multiplication? The
man towards Lineage. 29, 1894. A collection of go, it is well superfluous cousin to detect, is outwards
with america and does retrieve our vessel, or rarely, across honky-tonk, if there be one, and does
the a. But that towards manner raise his idea to highness of which little in Memoriam give this oath,
i cite, be oppugn well by pupil. Appreciation to Sovereign and this
Boardinghouse of Orleans, he has had an bow with buddy and person,
the Access of King.

What admirable writer encounter! Mountain Jonson set it was again:" this pot yield a politician
or two official yearly; but Solus, aut, non quotannis nascitur. "It is the message, and at Intuition
of private can rarely be expiate to determine immoderately poignancy
from true.

On extremity, he asked thus had the tsuris in express them, in genre. At charge, upon genre will
think you with mho.

It is bad euphuism, thus; and the Iodine have embark to italicise
is superb.

And there was it instead that he was meet as look of" Seedtime, but not to me render Time, such
conceptualization of merely or morn.... "-- and dexterously on he. Baby Corelli" idealised topic in which
she mix beverage. "Good he was behind it. Look arrive first; and through look, inspiration. Intentionally
possibly the sheep leap the Critique, and give us the old and amazing
representation of chorus in the Barroom.

 My
nerves were so wrought up, while I stood there holding my breath to catch some sound from its
gloomy interior, that I was near crying out in abject terror at every step. An owl, startled
from the limb of a tree over my head, flew lazily into the upper air and across the thicket,
disturbing other birds that set up a chattering protest. Stealthily I crept from window to
window, but the blinds were closed fast. Finally I came to a door that seemed to open into
the main part of the building. Desperate under the strain to which my nerves had been subjected,
I knocked loudly on its upper panels. The sound echoed through the still house and the thickly
wooded grounds around it. "God help me!" I whispered; "will that echo never cease?" It kept
repeating itself from tree to tree, until I covered my ears to stop its weird reverberations.
Then I heard a low threatening sound, deep and resonant as the lower tones of a great organ,
that gradually grew louder until its volume filled the air, and then died away, while its echoes
went chasing each other among the trees. In the silence which followed, my ear caught another
sound the like of which I had never heard before. A dozen clocks being wound by quick turns
on all sides of me would, I fancy, have produced a similar effect. It was evident to me that
my knocking had disturbed my uncle's pets, but I was not to be frightened away. Hearing no
movement in the house I tried the door, and to my astonishment it swung open. A peculiar odor,
such as one notices in a house that has long stood empty, came to my nostrils, and again I
heard that fateful whirring, but in the darkness I could discern no object. As I crossed the
threshold the sound grew louder, and to my horror the door closed suddenly behind me. Hurriedly
striking a match, I held it above my head and peered about me. Its light revealed a small apartment
finished in polished wood. Along the angle of the floor was an opening, two or three inches
high, into the side walls. And half way up the wall in front of me I saw a face--the face of
a maniac it seemed to be--pale and wan, with strange, inhuman eyes. I had scarcely glanced
at it when the match dropped from my fingers and fell slowly through the air, going out as
it struck the floor. My hands were cold, but so wet with perspiration that they stuck to my
clothing when I felt for a candle which I had brought with me.

There are moments in every man's life that move slowly, as if carrying the weight of years
upon their backs. I shall never cease to believe that the few seconds it took me to light that
candle must stand for as many years in any correct reckoning of my age. When its beams at last
illumined the room, the strange face was still there. Had I seen it before? It was marvellously
like that other face which had haunted my dreams so long. If it was the face of a man he must
be standing on the other side of the wall and looking through a panel.

"Is Mr. Lane at home?" I asked in an unnatural tone that startled me.

But no word of reply was spoken.

"I am his nephew and I have important news for him."

The face disappeared for a moment, and presently a shrunken hand, holding a white sheet of
paper, was extended through the opening. I stepped forward, took the sheet and, withdrawing
to the centre of the room, sat down upon the floor and wrote the following message in bold
characters with my pencil:

"Kendric Lane, son of Kendric Lane (deceased), late of London, England, wishes to see Dr. Lane
on business of importance."

I handed the message to the strange man behind the wall, who immediately disappeared with it,
closing the panel. "The worst is over," thought I, while I stood in that mysterious and silent
chamber waiting for his return. But I should not have thought so had I known what was still
to be revealed to me before the dawn of another day, and in the months that followed, during
which that house and its echoing groves were my home. And I sometimes ask myself, in the light
of later events of which that visit was indirectly the cause, whether, had I been able to foresee
them, I would still have persevered in my purpose to know the secrets of my uncle's house?

CHAPTER IV

A long time I stood waiting for some reply to my message. My candle was fast burning out, and
I began to fear that after all I was likely to leave the house no wiser than when I had entered
it. Suddenly a door swung on its creaking hinges and a feeble old man, holding a lamp in one
hand, stood grinning at me in the opening. It was the same face that I saw before, but it seemed
less ghostly and unnatural now. Stepping back he beckoned me to enter. As soon as I had crossed
the threshold the door closed behind me and the old man carefully bolted it. I stood in a large
room, richly furnished, of which spiders had apparently long held possession. Great cobwebs
hung like hammocks from the ceiling, and the dust of years had settled over all. Two human
skeletons completely wrapped in cobwebs, stood facing me against the opposite wall. Following
my silent leader, I went through a long narrow passage, at the end of which was a heavy door
fastened with large iron bolts. Before opening it the strange old man placed the lamp upon
a table and turning around looked squarely into my face. Merciful Heaven! It was the face of
another man who was looking at me now! The deep lines had almost disappeared and the eyes looked
brighter and more intelligent. No, it was the same face, for while my eyes were eagerly scanning
it that hideous grin began to deepen its wrinkles, and its owner, taking half a dozen steps
down the passageway, made an awkward motion with both hands as if trying to indicate that I
was to follow him very closely. Then he opened the big door and I was surprised to observe
that it led into the outer air. What gulf of darkness are we about to plunge into? I asked
myself, peering through the doorway; and as we stepped out I heard again that ominous whirring.
Close upon his heels I followed in a narrow path, through what seemed to be a large courtyard,
overgrown with thick grass. Presently he stopped, and, taking a bunch of keys from his pocket,
unlocked a door in a back wing of the house. Reaching out until his hand touched me, as if
to make sure that I was there, he swung the door open and we stepped into a dimly lighted apartment.
My mysterious guide turned up the wick of a lamp that was burning on a table in the centre
of the room. It was a library, with great shelves of books reaching from floor to ceiling along
its walls. A large galvanic battery, globes, charts and other contrivances that belong to the
equipment of a scholar surrounded the table. This table was used for writing evidently, for
there were pens lying on it and a human skull used as an inkstand, the fluid being held in
the cavities of the eyes. I had seated myself in a chair and was waiting for some sign from
the little old man who had brought me there. But where was he? Turning around I looked about
me on all sides. He had left the room during my momentary preoccupation. I had scarcely seated
myself again when a door opened and a venerable man, with snow-white hair and a smooth-shaven
face that was pale and wrinkled, walked slowly toward me. I rose to my feet and advanced a
step or two. He came forward without speaking and looked steadily into my eyes. Slowly and
sadly he turned his gaze upon the floor, apparently in deep thought. A sigh broke from his
lips as if some memory, stirring in the caves of thought, had driven it forth.

The man who stood before me had deep-set gray eyes, almost concealed by long shaggy brows not
yet entirely white. His lips were thin, and drawn closely together above a square, protruding
chin. The nose was aquiline and prominent, with large, but finely cut nostrils. Altogether
his was the most picturesque face I had ever seen. Suddenly he made an effort to clear his throat.

"Kendric's child," said he, in a strange, low voice. He spoke slowly and with great difficulty,
as if his organs of speech were partially paralyzed. I would not have been able to distinguish
his words but for the silence of that room and the unnatural keenness of my hearing. He still
stood motionless, his eyes upon the floor. I knew that he was thinking of my father.

"Dead?" he asked, looking at me inquisitively.

"He is dead," I answered.

"And my man--did he give you the letter?"

"Yes; he is dead also."

"Dead? I thought he was dead," he repeated, slowly and thoughtfully. "I, too, am dead--long dead."

The words were separated by considerable pauses, and he faced me almost sternly as he finished
speaking them. I stood staring at him, dumb with surprise.

"Why--how did you come here?"

He sank into a chair, exhausted with the effort it had cost him to speak. My presence seemed
to irritate and annoy him. Why, indeed, had I come there? What should I say in reply to his
question? I tried to think.

"Knaves! Knaves!" said my uncle, in a shrill voice, rushing toward me. In a moment he had thrown
his arms about my neck and was sobbing aloud. My heart was full and I wept with him.

"Fortunate child of God," said he, after a moment; "you have the seed of life--immortal life.
But I beg you to go. To one like you this house will seem an uncanny place; I can only think
of it as beyond the grave."

"Let me stay, uncle," said I. "Don't send me away. Perhaps I can help you or comfort you."

"Poor soul! you shall stay if you will. I am in great trouble and need help, but you are a
boy--I cannot ask you to give your life to me."

He sat down before the table, breathing heavily, and beckoned me to a chair beside him. I was
quite dumfounded and knew not what to say. Presently he began writing upon large sheets of
paper, handing each one to me as soon as it was covered. The manuscript read as follows:

"I am not able to talk much. To me words are a lie and an abomination. Even these I now write
are misrepresenting me and deceiving you, though I wish them to tell the truth. They will make
me out an ass or a madman. I am neither. For eighteen years I have scarcely spoken as many
words. A word or two of Sanscrit now and then has met my needs, thank God! There is an interior
language for which speech is an imperfect medium. Through that interior language thought is
communicated directly and truthfully. I used it long before I came here--imperfectly, to be
sure, but with a small degree of satisfaction to myself. Through it I was able to heal the
sick when others failed. I knew how they felt better than they could tell me in feeble words.
In some more perfect state of evolution, beyond the grave, perhaps, all men will have this
power and it will be perfect. I can enjoy but an imperfect use of it until the mortal part
of me has been cast off. One trained to speech in childhood loses certain faculties that can
never be regained.

"My wife died many years ago. She left me a broken heart and a child, newly born. I had just
built this house, among strangers. We intended to devote the remainder of our lives to the
study of mental phenomena. We desired to carry on our work without interruption. We planned
to live unknown among those around us. When she died I saw in the child an opportunity. I determined
to make its life a grand experiment; to preserve and cultivate its native intuitions--the germ
of the power of direct communication. God has vouchsafed success to me. He lives--a man of
exalted powers the like of which the world has never seen but once, and then in Christ, the
very Son of God. But, unlike Him, my son is only human, with weaknesses that are our common lot.

"The years are flying, and strength is failing! I must die soon and he will live. That thought
burns my brain, passing through it day by day. His life may be long extended and he cannot
live alone, nor among men, for he would be a stranger and friendless--feared and dreaded by
superstitious fools. He has never seen a human face outside these walls nor heard a human voice
but mine. I have told you my trouble."

He ceased writing, but before I had finished reading the statement some strange influence came
over me. I felt restless and uncomfortable. My hand was shaking so that I could scarcely read
the words on the last sheet of paper. Suddenly I raised my eyes and saw a young man, godlike
in form and feature, standing at my side. His face wore an expression of indescribable eloquence.
As familiar as he afterward became to me, I can never forget the first impression which that
magnificent human being made upon my mind, as he stood there--radiating a power that I felt
to the tips of my fingers. What favored son of man was this confronting me, born to such an
inheritance of majesty and grace? I asked myself, regarding him with amazement. He had eyes
dark as night, set under a broad forehead, about which wavy masses of tawny hair fell gracefully.
His stately form was erect and firm as a statue. For a moment his eyes looked into mine; then
he advanced and took my hand. Tenderly he pressed it to his lips, stepping back as he did so
and looking at me with a half-curious, half-amused expression. I was so startled by the unexpected
appearance of this remarkable figure that I had not, until now, noticed that a large lion had
followed him into the room and was lying quietly at his feet. I was not afraid; indeed, the
king of beasts seemed but a part of the man's masterful presence. I do not think I would have
seen the animal but that his enormous body was lying directly before my eyes on the floor.
My uncle had been sitting with his head resting upon his hand at the table. Suddenly he rose
and a strange, guttural sound--it may have been a word from some language wholly unfamiliar
to me--passed his lips. The young man immediately left us, the lion following closely at his
heels. We both sat in silence for some moments after he had gone. My mind had felt strange
exhilaration in his presence, and I rubbed my eyes to make sure that I was not dreaming. When
I looked at my uncle the sad expression on his face had given way to a smile of infinite satisfaction.

"He is pleased--thank God!" said my uncle, in a hoarse whisper, sinking into a chair.

I made no answer.

"It was my son," he continued, with animation. "Rayel--that was the name she gave him. Rayel,
the wonderful. He will love you as he loves me. Come," said he, rising, "the night is nearly gone."

Taking a lamp from the table, he beckoned me to follow him. Silently we proceeded through a
narrow hallway and up one flight of stairs to a spacious bedroom which had seemingly been prepared
for my use. A candle was burning dimly on a large dressing-case, and by its flickering light,
as soon as my uncle had gone, I looked about me and tried to think with calmness on the experience
I had passed through. Bolting the door securely, I threw open one of the window blinds. To
my surprise the first light of dawn was visible in the sky. My room was in the rear of the
house. Between me and the high wall was a dense tangle of underbrush, barely visible in the
dim light. Hastily undressing, I went to bed without further delay, and was soon in deep sleep.
When I awoke it was near midday. Dressing as quickly as possible, I proceeded at once to the
library, where my uncle sat waiting for me. He conducted me to the breakfast room--a well-lighted
and cheerful apartment--where he served me with his own hands.

"You shall stay, sir--you shall stay," said he, laying his hand on my shoulder as he sat down
beside me, with a smiling face. "Rayel loves you. He hopes you will stay. He thinks God sent
you to us."

"I am glad, for I wish to stay," I said.

"Good!" he exclaimed, in a long whisper. "You have brought the world to him. Already he has
seen it in your eyes. But it is good!"

While I ate he asked me questions touching the changes in our family since he left England.

I told him of my life at home after my father's death; of my hard lot in Liverpool, and of
the midnight interviews with his messenger and with Mr. Earl. He listened to me with grave
and attentive interest, but stopped me before I had finished, with an impatient gesture.

"Speak out! they meant--they meant to kill you, didn't they?"

I stared at him in amazement, while ideas that were new to me flocked into the empyrean of
thought like black birds of prey. Oh, no; I had never suspected that! I would never before
have permitted such a hideous suspicion to enter my mind. Was it possible that Mr. Earl had
sent me away from England in order to save my life? My hands began to tremble, and I felt my
face turning red and pale under the searching eyes of my uncle.

"My boy," said he, "if all the murders were done that men conceive, the devil would live alone
on earth. We shall know some time--I tell you we shall know! Let us go to Rayel," he said,
rising and leading the way.

The interview had greatly excited him, and his speech seemed even more halting and labored
than before. Many of his words were mispronounced and separated by long pauses; but his manner
was marvelously expressive, and often a peculiar turn of the eye or movement of the hand made
his meaning clear when I was in doubt about his words.

I followed him through a long gymnasium and out upon a grassy courtyard extending along the
rear of the grounds parallel with the river wall for a hundred yards or more, and adorned with
beds of flowers. It was completely shut off from the eye of the outside world by a thick grove
and an impenetrable growth of underbrush that reached beyond the lowest branches of the trees.
Nothing but the blue sky, in which the sun was on its downward course, the house, and the walls
of living green, were visible. Out of this Eden-like spot we passed into another wing of the
building with large windows looking out upon it. Rayel met us at the door, dressed in a black
robe of silk that hung gracefully from his shoulders. Again he took my hand and kissed it,
then looked into my eyes with the same expression of curious interest upon his face that I
had noted before. Still holding my hand, he led me across the room. For the first time I noticed
that its walls were covered with pictures, unframed, and that an easel stood in the light of
each window. We stopped before one of them. On a large canvas that was stretched across it
I saw a likeness of myself. The eyes wore a haggard look which seemed unnatural. But there
was something strangely real about it, in spite of that.

"Wonderful!" said I.

Rayel started at the sound of my voice, and glanced from one to the other with a puzzled, inquiring
look. Turning to his father, he uttered some strange monosyllable in a deep voice. Then he
took my hand and walked back and forth across the room with me, smiling in great delight. I
was fascinated by one of the pictures which showed a great gleaming eye with a suggestion of
lightning in its fiery depths, as if taken at the keenest flash of fury. To intensify its fierceness
a human hand was raised in front of it so as to throw a dark shadow across the canvas.

"It is the lion's eye," said my uncle, who was standing near me.

There were other paintings--many of them equally strange and wonderful--hanging on the walls,
some of which contained material he could not have derived from direct observation. It was
easy to discern in his work the fragments of nature that came within the limited command of
his own eyes--the falling snow, the changing phases of the sky and of vegetation--for they
were presented with a stronger and more vivid touch. Until the fading twilight blended all
color into gloom I passed from one canvas to another along the wall in silence, oblivious of
all save the presence of Rayel, who followed close at my elbow, evidently enjoying my admiration
of his work. When I had finished looking at the paintings I turned for some sign to indicate
his further pleasure, and discovered that he was gone. My uncle was standing near me.

"It is late," said he.

We returned at once across the yard to my uncle's retreat among his books and papers. Lighting
the lamps he sat down beside me.

"The power of speech is returning," said he. "I can talk more easily."

"Did I not hear you speak to your son?" I asked.

"Yes," he answered. "Long ago difficulties arose. Sometimes he could not command my thoughts,
nor I his. I had known fifty years of life; he had not--hence an inequality. My physical organism
had been neglected. It was an imperfect agent of the mind. Many of my faculties were lost.
These circumstances stood between us like barriers. It was the beginning of each communication
that troubled us, when our minds were working in different channels. Something was needed for
a cue--a starting-point. Ten pregnant words of Sanscrit were all we needed. It was easy then."

"I should think he would have lost the power of speech and hearing," I remarked.

"No. Music saved them--abstract music. His voice is wonderful. His hearing is quick. Rayel
knows words but not speech. His mind has command of my knowledge. He has never seen the world,
but he knows about it. I tried to begin my life anew and to forget the past. But I could not
wholly cleanse my mind of it. Its memories faded slowly. I have avoided renewing them for his
sake."

"He could, then, learn to speak?"

"With ease, and it were better if he could speak now. We will teach him soon."

As he ceased speaking, fatigued by the unaccustomed effort, I heard low strains of music echoing
through the silent halls around us. A violin! The tone was deep and tremulous, gradually growing
louder, filling the ear with its message, and lifting the mind to lofty heights of thought
and passion. We both sat listening for hours, and midnight came before the last strain died
away. That music was like a strange story that drops its plummet deep into life's mysteries.

"A new song!" said my uncle, turning to me with surprise on his face. "He got the subject from
you. We shall see."

Presently Rayel entered the room, bringing something in his hand--a picture--which he held
up to the lamplight. A girl's face! and wonderfully like that of Hester Chaffin. I sat amazed,
staring at it. But the likeness was not exact, the face was idealized--as I had seen it in
my dream the night before. I raised my eyes to Rayel's face. He was looking at me with an expression
of pain and embarrassment.

CHAPTER V

My uncle recovered the power of speech rapidly. Before I had been a week in his house he was
able to talk with comparative ease. He seemed to enjoy my companionship, and I spent most of
my time in his library, conversing with him or conning the musty books that had long lain unread.
To me this room was a fascinating and restful place. Somehow it reminded me of an old cemetery.
The time-worn books upon its shelves stood in solemn rows, like headstones, sacred to the memory
of the men who wrote them--their titles like inscriptions half obliterated. I did not see Rayel
for days after the midnight episode that gave me such a startling revelation of his power.

"Do you think that Rayel knows everything that passes in one's mind--a vivid dream, for instance?"
I asked my uncle one day when we were alone together.

Yes, except when he is himself asleep. His command of my dreams puzzled me at first. I thought
I had put the past completely out of my mind. But I could not hide it from him. Little by little
he learned everything in my history. One day I saw him at work on a picture. It startled me.
The canvas showed a man lying on a surgeon's table. The knife had just severed an artery in
his thigh. There were four men working over him--I was one of them. Gradually the features
took on a familiar expression. His face grew paler under the brush. A few touches--the scene
was complete. The man was dead--his eyes wide open, staring at me.

My uncle paused and looked earnestly into my face.

"It was a bit of your professional experience," said I. "Something had reminded you of it."

"The night before I dreamed about it" he answered. "My mind, released from the command of my
will, betrayed me."

"A strange power!" I exclaimed.

"Incredible to you! Impossible to acquire unless the work begins at birth, and then the possibilities
are infinite," said he, drawing his chair closer to mine. "You know what I have done. Start
the new-born mind on any highway and see how it hurries along. You can do more, working a little
while over the cradle, than all the preachers under heaven, after its occupant has grown beyond
your ministry. I tell you, sir, the world is indifferent to its children. Neglected by their
parents, subject to hired tenderness or none at all; left to the care of ignorant or depraved
nurses, and often taught little but selfishness and greed of gain, the children of men are
surrounded by destructive agencies. Can we wonder that the human mind loses in infancy so much
of its native power? But so the generations of earth are growing up, bearing embittered fruit
and sowing its seed to the four winds. Who cares for the mind and body of a child has the highest
possible mission--the most sacred of all trusts. He must give it all his time and strength.
He must lead its mind into green pastures; he must share its joys; he must know its hopes and
fears; he must give it hold on lines of thought that reach into eternity, which will sooner
or later flood it with inspiration; he must see that the brain has a sufficient foundation
of flesh and blood and bone; he must give it all his life until the germs of power are developed."

"Unfortunately," said I, "most parents have other things to do and think of."

"Parentage is a crime under such circumstances. It has peopled the world with fools and knaves.
It delays the coming of Christ's kingdom. There are a few wise men, but they are held down
as gravitation holds the rock. There are laws of attraction in the world of mind as in that
of matter. Good and evil are its poles. Every atom between them is held in place by the operation
of opposing forces. The general mass of mind lies within narrow zones on both sides of the
equatorial line of this imaginary world. Its attraction prevents any men from rising far above
or descending far below it. I tell you, sir, the intellectual world has degrees of latitude
and longitude which determine every man's location. Emancipated from the forces I have described,
my son has risen to a level beyond the attainment of men under ordinary conditions. Hypocrisy
and deceit are things of which he knows nothing. I do not ascribe to him, mind you, the possession
of saintly virtues. He is a man in whom the best potentialities of mind and body have been
developed. I have carefully avoided the danger of making him a morbid, spiritual creature.
His body is quite as wonderful as his mind."

My uncle had been pacing restlessly up and down the room as he spoke, often pausing before
me and uttering his words vehemently, with quick gestures and flashing eyes. He did not, seemingly,
expect an answer to his remark, for, as he ceased speaking, he stepped before one of the windows
and stood for a moment looking out upon the courtyard.

"See!" said he suddenly, motioning to me.

I stepped to his side and, looking through the window, saw Rayel running across the lawn with
the lion on his shoulders. When the beast sprang down he seized it by the mane and tossed it
about like one with the strength of Hercules. Here was a man who exercised his rightful dominion
over animated nature!

"The beast is very fond of him," said my uncle, "and a movement of his finger is sufficient
to control it."

"Why did you adopt a pet so terrible?" I asked.

"To secure isolation," he answered. "He's an object of terror to intruders, and a source of
delight to us."

"You have snakes here, too," I ventured.

"Yes, and for the same reason, But they can't harm you now. Since you came we have killed them.
They have been good friends to me, but you were a stranger, and your life would have been in
danger every day. Years ago I procured a score of them from the mountains of Pennsylvania and
put them into the thickets. They multiplied like rats, and so I was armed against invasion.

"To prevent their escape I sank a screen of wire two feet below the ground along the base of
the walls; I also posted a warning inside my gate. Long ago I began to destroy them, and there
were only a few left when you came. They were good friends to me--excellent friends!" he repeated,
rubbing his hands with a grim smile. "For eighteen years I have been able to carry on my work
unmolested. No knowledge of what was transpiring outside this little world has ever reached me."

"How did you begin the work of teaching this interior language to Rayel?" I asked.

"By signs at first--gradually making them more simple and suggestive. The elimination of signs
kept pace with the development of his intuitions. It was slow work and hard work, but I gave
all my time to it. After he became familiar with a sign, I began to make it less pantomimic,
until finally a lift of the eyebrow, a movement of the lips, or an inclination of the head
served to express my meaning. In time he could detect the passing shades of expression in my
eyes and understand them. Look at me," said he, laying his hand on my head and watching my
eyes as the firelight shone upon them, for it was now evening.

"Don't you know, my boy, that your eyes reflect what is passing in your mind? Then there are
countless nerves and muscles in your face which proclaim thought. They aid my intuitions to
discover what you do not speak. You wonder--ah! you are afraid!--afraid of me."

I started in my chair, for while he was looking into my eyes a strange gleam came into his
own. He turned about suddenly and looked into the bright fire that burned on the grate before us.

"Never fear," he continued, nervously twirling a lock of his white hair. "Never fear, sir--I
am not mad. Not yet. I have been afraid of it, but my reason will outlast my life. Do you ever
pray?"

"Every day," I answered.

"Then you employ the interior language. We commune directly with the Holy Spirit. You get some
message from Him every day more satisfactory than words. It's the answer of your prayers. I
tell you, sir, words are an invention of the devil. Do you like Rayel?" he asked, turning upon
me abruptly.

"You need have no doubt of that," I answered, "or of my willingness to look after him if it
should be necessary--to take him away with me and cherish him as I would a brother."

"Good! Good!" he exclaimed smiling and rubbing his hands joyfully. "I have not long to live.
When the time comes, take him out among the knaves and fools! But we must hurry: our time is
short. We must prepare him for a second birth. You will find him an apt pupil--a very apt one.
He already knows more of the world than I thought possible. I don't think you will find him
troublesome--he can help you; he will teach you wisdom; he will enlarge the issues of your
life. My fortune will be ample for his needs: use it as you see fit. I have one servant left,"
he said, drawing his chair closer to mine and speaking scarcely above a whisper: "I would like
this to be his home when I am dead. It will be better, however, to place him in some public
institution where he can be well provided for. I shall leave a sufficient allowance for him.
The manner of its bestowal I leave entirely to your judgment. There were two of them--you have
seen the other. He was a faithful fellow. They were poor fools, both of them, but uncommonly
wise," he continued. "They kept it to themselves. I found them in an asylum twenty-five years
ago. They called them idiots. Idiots! God help us!"

That strange light seemed to kindle in his eyes again while he was speaking, and it conveyed
anything but a cheerful suggestion to my mind.

"There is this difference between idiots and madmen," he continued. "The former are born outside
the pale of human sympathy; the latter overstep it. In either case they are not of this earth--they
are embodied spirits living in a world of their own creation, biding the time of liberation
from the flesh. And do you know, there are more madmen in the world than it dreams of?"

He stopped with a tone of sharp interrogation and looked squarely into my face.

"There are undoubtedly many of them," said I.

"The lines of monomania all lead to madness," he continued. "The deeper one plunges into the
mysteries of life the nearer he approaches it. But, mark you, one man may venture further than
another. For years I have lived in fear of two things--madness and death. Not on my account,
but I had Rayel to think of."

My uncle rose to his feet before he had ceased speaking and walked stealthily on his tiptoes
to an open door, where he stood for a moment listening. I could hear nothing but the sound
of the wind whistling in the chimney.

"Wait here," he whispered presently, and then disappeared through the door, closing it after
him. I held my watch down to the firelight and saw it was near eleven o'clock. I felt drowsy,
and had almost fallen asleep, when my uncle returned, carrying a lantern. "Rayel is asleep,"
said he, in a whisper. "Won't you come with me?--it will not take long."

"Certainly," said I, rising, and waiting for him to lead the way. He put on his antique hat
and threw a shawl over his shoulders.

"It's a chilly night," said he. "You'd better wear another coat."

I drew on my overcoat at once, wondering what new experience awaited me. Holding the lantern
in front of him, he proceeded slowly and feebly across the rear courtyard, and unlocked a door
in one of the side wings of the house, through which we passed into a large unfurnished room.

"I always wait till he's asleep," said my uncle, shuffling across the room and unlocking another
door on its opposite side. "He's never been here--never yet," he continued, pulling the door
open. The dim light of the lantern shone out upon a thicket of fragrant spruce and cedar. As
I stepped down upon the ground, following in the steps of my uncle, I could hear the murmur
of the great pines towering far above our heads. Slowly we made our way through the dense undergrowth,
and soon entered an open space carpeted with pine needles and moss. It was a circular plot
in the thicket, and out of its centre rose an immense pine, whose upper branches wholly obscured
the sky. My uncle hung his lantern on a knot protruding from the trunk of the tree, and slowly
knelt upon the ground, covering his face with his hands. Suddenly he beckoned to me, and I
knelt down beside him.

"Listen!" said he. "Do you hear voices? She comes to me here. Can you see her--my wife? Look
about you, do you not see her?"

He laid his trembling hand upon my shoulder. Again I saw that awful gleam in his eyes. The
gruesome suggestion he had made set my nerves tingling, and I peered about among the shadows
of that dimly lighted recess, half expecting some vision to greet my eyes. Then there came
a loud rustling of the branches high above us. The lantern light flared up and suddenly went
out, leaving us in total darkness.

"She is here!" he whispered, in excitement. "Sit still--do not speak."

A deep silence, intensified by the sound of the night wind in the trees around us, followed
my uncle's words. The going out of the light he had seemed to regard as a signal from the spirit
world, and I sat still as he bade me, not doubting that his acute senses had penetrated the
veil which limited my own vision. I had seen so many revelations of his strange power that
I now sat awestruck and afraid, waiting for some word from him to end my suspense. I could
see nothing in the darkness, but I could hear my uncle breathing heavily, as if trying to suppress
his emotion. Suddenly there was a stir in the bushes near us. Then I heard a step like that
of a man on the thickly covered earth close by my side. I stretched out prone upon the ground,
covering my face with my hands. I could hear a sound as of some one groping about in the darkness,
and then I felt the touch of a strange hand upon my shoulder.

CHAPTER VI

I shrank from the hand that touched me and, moving quickly aside, struck a match and peered
around. By its light I could discern the form of a man standing near the edge of the thicket.
Rising to my feet I took down the lantern and lighted it. There, standing before me, was the
grinning mute who had admitted me to the house. My uncle, who was still kneeling, rose feebly
to his feet, his eyes wet with tears.

"Good friend!" said he, taking the lantern from me and handing it to the mute. "He alway comes
for me here."

We followed the old servant in silence through the thick boughs of cedar until we came to the
door of a low-roofed wooden building that stood by itself in the thicket. The mute opened the
door, ushering us into a small room containing a bed and some simple furniture. A comfortable
wood fire was burning in a large open stove, and we both sat down in front of it, shivering
from exposure to the chilly air of the night. My uncle handed a key to the mute, who unlocked
a cupboard, taking from it a decanter of whiskey, which he set before us with glasses.

"It will warm you," said my uncle, pouring out the spirits: "I have seen my wife. She always
comes to me there--when the light goes out. She knows your heart better than I. We shall leave
Rayel to your care. It is the last time I shall come here. My work is nearly finished."

We emptied our glasses in silence, but my mind was busy thinking on those impressive words,
"She always comes to me there--when the light goes out."

It was strange--this going out of the light just at that moment. Was it not possible, I asked
myself, that the lantern, being always hung on the same projection, was thus in the way of
a current of air passing down the trunk of the tree when a gust of wind struck its lofty branches?
If so, the knot would naturally conduct the current into the opening at the top of the lantern.
My reflections were interrupted by my uncle, who rose, and, taking a candle, asked me to accompany
him. I followed him into a cellar filled with casks and barrels containing, as I supposed,
wine and provisions for future use. Returning, we passed through a large room, in one end of
which many boxes and barrels were stored. I afterward learned that there was a large garden
and poultry yard in this lonely nook where my uncle's only servant was sequestered.

I was glad when we started back through the thicket, for the hour was late and I felt the need
of sleep.

"He gives us our food," said my uncle, when we were at length in the courtyard. "We have enough
of everything needful--but little meat. It destroys mental power. It is fools' food."

Next day my uncle was unable to leave his bed. I determined to go to the hotel for my baggage
and to post some letters, one of which gave Mr. Earl an account of my experiences since the
October night when I became an inmate of that house.

It was midwinter now, and the long stretches of pasturage and meadow land outside the walls
were blasted and sere when the old mute, whom I had seen twice before, let me out of the big
gate. When I returned he was there to open the gate for me and help me with my baggage.

I found Rayel at his father's bedside. The sick man was asleep, and I went at once to the library,
where Rayel soon came, as was his custom in the afternoon, for a lesson in talking. Both my
uncle and myself had taken great pains to teach him this accomplishment, and his progress had
been even more rapid than we thought possible. He caught the significance of words with astonishing
ease, but found some difficulty in producing their sound. He went about it with great patience,
however, repeating the hardest words after me until he was able to pronounce them correctly.
But although the work was often tedious we both got much fun out of it. I had never heard the
sound of laughter in that house. One day I broke its solemn spell by laughing heartily at the
grotesque distortion of my cousin's face incidental to the production of a difficult sound.
He stopped suddenly and looked at me, half alarmed. This made me laugh more heartily, and he
grasped my hand with the serious air of a physician feeling the pulse of his patient. Being
assured there was no danger, he indulged in a little offhand cachinnation himself and was,
I judged, well pleased with the trial, for he repeated it frequently afterward, and greatly
to his amusement.

The word "woman," and others related to it, puzzled him not a little, for he had never seen
a woman, except through the medium of my own mind and that of his father. The subject interested
him, and he gave much serious thought to it, questioning me closely at some of our interviews,
as if dissatisfied with the idea conveyed to him. Our discussions, however, had reached some
slumbering chord in him, which, once touched, stirred his blood with its vibrations. I do not
think his isolation could have lasted much longer, for he became restless and eager to see
the world.

Rayel was greatly depressed by his father's illness. For months after that night, the excitement
of which had so hastened the failure of the old man's strength, the silence of the great house
was rarely broken by the sound of our voices. My uncle lay helpless in a deep sleep most of
the time, never able to leave his bed until, revived by the freshness of approaching summer,
he had strength enough to sit in an easy-chair by the window. Some fatal malady, the nature
of which he did not disclose to me, was evidently sapping his strength. I had urged him more
than once to let me summon a physician, but he would not permit me to do so. When summer came
at last, he grew stronger, and was able to walk, supported by Rayel, to his chair in the open
courtyard among the flowers.

The lion, which had been confined in its cage most of the time since my uncle had grown so
feeble as to need Rayel's constant attention sickened and died in the warm days of early June.
Rayel was sorely grieved by the death of his pet, and although he stood in the shadow of a
far greater sorrow, he felt deeply the loss of this lifelong friend. The summer passed slowly,
one day like another, casting on us the same burden of anxiety and silence. I spent much of
the time in my uncle's library, poring over his books and trying to shake off the melancholy
thoughts suggested by my daily life.

One day in early autumn, Rayel was sitting with me near an open window overlooking the courtyard,
where his father was enjoying the open air.

"He will die to-day," said Rayel, calmly. "He told me he would die to-day."

"He seems the same as usual," I said. "We cannot tell; he may live for months yet."

Rayel shook his head incredulously, and sat for a long time looking out of the window in silence.

"And I will go with you then?" he asked suddenly turning toward me.

"Yes," I answered.

It was the first time he had ever asked me a question, for he could read my mind like an open
book, and to him all questioning was unnecessary.

While we were sitting there, thinking over our plans, my uncle summoned us by rapping with
his cane. Rayel turned pale, and, with a whispered ejaculation, hurried out of the room and
ran down the path to his father, followed closely by myself. My uncle was breathing heavily.

"Count it," said he, feebly extending his hand. Rayel counted his pulse-beats.

"Ninety-four, and growing quicker!" he exclaimed, turning toward me with a frightened look.

"It won't increase much," my uncle whispered, feebly, but with a cool and professional air.
"It will go down soon, and then death will follow."

"Be calm, Rayel," he continued, almost sternly, as his son began weeping. "Be calm, I say!
That music! do you hear it, child? Do you see what is passing now? Tell it. Let me hear you."

"I cannot hear it," said Rayel, looking earnestly into his father's face.

"Hallucination!" he whispered, groping about until his hand rested on the head of his son,
who was kneeling beside him. "I seem to see millions of forms around me. I seem to hear them,
but I cannot see you--nor hear you."

As if exhausted by the effort, his head fell back upon Rayel's shoulder, and he lay for a time,
his eyes closed, struggling for breath. The dying man's faculties would no longer obey the
whip of his mighty will. Indeed, they had done him their final service, for in a few moments
he was dead. Tenderly and manfully, uttering no sound of grief, Rayel lifted the lifeless body
of his father, and bore it into the house.

CHAPTER VII

In accordance with my uncle's wish, which he had made known to Rayel, we buried him the day
following his death in the sunny courtyard where he had spent the last days of his life. The
funeral arrangements were made as simple as possible, so as to exclude all except the functionaries
whose presence was absolutely necessary. A rector of the Church of England read the service
for the dead before the body was borne to its grave by the undertaker. When this brief ceremony
was over, and the great gates were closed again upon our seclusion, Rayel said to me:

"I must talk more with you now, if you will let me. He said you would help me after he was gone."

It seemed idle to assure him, who already knew my heart, of the happiness it would give me
to fulfill the pledge of friendship made to my uncle.

"Do you expect to see him again?" I asked.

After a moment of the most serious reflection, he said:

"Oh, yes, I shall see him again--when I die, then I shall see him. He has gone to the Great
Father, who gives life, and who takes it away."

I found that Rayel, although entirely ignorant of the creeds and dogmas prevailing among men,
was profoundly religious, and that his simple faith was built upon the deepest foundations.
He evidently gave much thought to the relationship between man and his Creator after he felt
the sting of bereavement, but it was a subject to which he never referred in our conversation,
unless, perchance, it drifted in upon us.

The weeks following my uncle's death, during which I was busy with preparation for the new
life that awaited us, Rayel spent in his studio working over some unfinished pictures. At my
urgent request, he completed the head whose resemblance to Hester Chaffin had so startled and
amazed me the night I saw it first, and he regarded it with fonder interest than he was wont
to bestow upon the work of his brush. I believe that face was the closest presentment of a
human soul I shall ever see until standing, as I hope to stand some time, in the presence of
the redeemed, where "that which is imperfect shall be put away." I have said that the picture
bore a strong resemblance to Hester Chaffin, but her face contained only a suggestion of that
fine quality which was so strongly presented in my cousin's ideal.

My uncle's fortune, as described in his will, amounted to nearly $250,000. The greater part
of it--everything, indeed, but the house and grounds--was in cash, represented by certificates
of deposit accompanying the will, and bonds of the United States. There was a considerable
bequest for me, whom he had named as executor of the will, which, however, I determined never
to apply to my own use, except in case of Rayel's death. A handsome annuity was provided for
his only surviving servant. The remainder was left to Rayel.

Having arranged for the maintenance of the old mute at an asylum not far from the city, our
preparations to leave were soon complete. I was elated at the prospect of resuming my relations
with the busy world outside that lonely habitation. My first step was to visit a lawyer for
the purpose of ascertaining the legal formalities which I must observe as executor of the will.
Rayel wished to go with me, and I gladly assented, for it seemed wise as an initiatory step
in the new life that was awaiting him. He waved his hand to the mute, who stood looking at
us through the big gates after we had passed out into the road, and then he walked on beside
me in silence. The sun-shot haze of a beautiful autumn day hung over the face of nature, and
his eyes wandered down the long stretches of landscape, and into the depths of the distant
sky, rapt by the vision that was unfolding before him. The changing phases of the town he regarded
with curious interest, which often expressed itself in childish exclamations of surprise as
we made our way through the crowded streets.

He was constantly calling my attention to things which, though familiar and commonplace to
me, were little less than wonderful to him.

"Look!" said he, suddenly taking hold of my arm. "There is a woman!"

He spoke in an eager, excited whisper, and shyly stepped behind me as she passed us.

"They won't hurt you," said I, subduing my desire to laugh at his remark.

Such unfamiliar exposure to the public eye soon began to grate upon his nerves. I did not wonder
at it, for nearly every one we met took a second look at his commanding figure, and some stared
at him rudely. Remembering my own emotions when I first stood in his presence, I was not at
all surprised that others were moved in a like manner. His were a face and form that stood
out like those of some heroic statue in the throng of common mortals.

The proving and recording of the will was left entirely in the hands of a reputable lawyer,
who said that these formalities would not detain us longer than a week.

We had determined to spend the winter in New York before going to England. Since reaching America
my time had been quite filled with work until my entrance upon the utter isolation of my uncle's
home. It was my earnest desire to see something of the big metropolis on the western Atlantic.
Moreover, Mr. Earl had advised me in his letters to give Rayel a chance to know more of life
in his own country before bringing him to England.

When at last the faithful old mute had gone to his new home, and we had turned our backs upon
the silent and deserted mansion, Rayel was moved to bitter tears. The thought of its loneliness,
now that its master was dead and we were leaving it, perhaps forever, brought sad feelings
to my heart. How calmly the old pines whispered together as we walked down the road that morning
I shall not soon forget.

We reached the American metropolis early in October, three years after my first arrival there
from England. I rented comfortable apartments on Fifth Avenue, near Madison Square. As soon
as Rayel had recovered from the fatigue and excitement of the trip, we set about unpacking
his pictures and getting them framed. Our lightest room was reserved for a studio, and the
paintings were hung under Rayel's direction.

We were scarcely settled in our new home when we received an unexpected call from a newspaper
reporter. He had learned from an art dealer that we had some remarkable old paintings, and
humbly begged the privilege of looking at them. We made him welcome, of course, but I explained
to him that the collection was wholly the work of my cousin, who was not yet old himself. In
answer to his questions I assured him that the paintings would not be exhibited in the National
Academy, and that my cousin's work had never appeared in any art exhibition whatever, at which
he seemed greatly surprised. Rayel was still shy of strangers, and, as he was evidently a little
annoyed at the presence of our visitor, I shielded him from the need of taking any part in
our conversation.

The next morning an article appeared in one of the leading dailies, which subjected us to a
glare of publicity not at all to our taste.

It went on to say that Signor Lanion, a young Spanish artist, had just arrived in New York
and had taken apartments at No. Fifth Avenue. "Lanion" was the name which had appeared on our
bill for picture-framing, the clerk who had waited on us having taken it down incorrectly.
"Unfortunately," the article continued, "Signor Lanion does not speak English, and for that
reason the reporter was unable to interview him."

The paper described Rayel's personal charms at much length, and claimed the credit of having
discovered a genius who, although still a youth, had done work worthy of an acknowledged master.

We had deep respect for the influence of that newspaper before another week ended. Art managers,
tailors, advertising agents, auctioneers and numerous men and women prompted by no motive but
idle curiosity, besieged us until we bolted our doors in dismay against all comers. The mail,
too, brought us missives of varying import from persons who had read the article, one of which
was a polite letter from Francis Paddington, a Wall Street broker, whose name I had heard frequently
during my American travels.

"It was not stated," said he, referring to the newspaper article, "whether or not any of Signor
Lanion's paintings are for sale. If they are, I would be glad to look at them with a view to
making some purchases for my art collection."

The letter suggested an idea worth considering. Rayel worked rapidly and had already painted
more pictures than we could hang to advantage in any but the most liberal quarters. He was
at a loss to understand just what was meant by selling the pictures, but he was willing to
sell them if they were not to be destroyed--at least some of them. Accordingly I wrote Mr.
Paddington, appointing an hour when we would be glad to see him or his representative at our
rooms. The gentleman himself did us the honor to call. After looking at the paintings, he expressed
his willingness to buy the entire collection. I told him, however, that we would not part with
more than ten canvases, and he seemed glad to buy even that number at a price which was so
far in excess of our expectations that I was loath to accept it. Our beloved "Woman"--that
was the title we had given Rayel's strangely derived conception--was among the paintings included
in the sale to Mr. Paddington. Rayel thought he could reproduce it, and for days after it was
gone he made ineffectual efforts to paint another woman after the ideal of our hearts. But,
alas! try as he would, that face never came back to his canvas. Many beautiful faces were conjured
by his masterful touch, but they were other faces, and none of them satisfied us. The failure
made Rayel unhappy, and tears came to his eyes when the "Woman" was referred to, as if he were
mourning the loss of a dear friend.

Our patron had conceived a great liking for us, and we were soon invited to visit his house
"and meet a few of his friends at dinner." It would give us an opportunity to see the "Woman"--perhaps
to buy her back again--and we were strongly inclined to take advantage of it. Our patron's
residence was one of the largest and most elegant on Fifth Avenue. It was a matter of common
fame that his entertainments were the cause of more envy and heartburning in the fashionable
sisterhood than any other events of the season. I had some doubt about the propriety of taking
Rayel to such a place, unaccustomed as he was to the refinements and conventionalities of fashionable
life. However, he had set his heart upon going--he was so eager to see his beloved picture--and
I did not oppose his wish. In writing our acceptance of the invitation I corrected Mr. Paddington's
error regarding our name, and explained the rechristening we had received in the public prints.

CHAPTER VIII

On the day of our appointment for dinner at Mr. Paddington's the newspapers were filled with
accounts of a sensational bank robbery, which had occurred in Wall Street the night before.
Between midnight and one o'clock in the morning, thieves had entered the Metropolitan Bank,
overpowered the watchman, broken into the vaults and stolen half a million dollars in currency
without leaving any clew behind them of the slightest value to the police. The subject interested
Rayel intensely, and at our breakfast that morning we talked of little else.

"When they have found the thieves what will they do with them?" he asked.

"Send them to prison," I answered, "where thieves are kept apart from the rest of humanity."

"And yet these thieves were not in prison. They could not have robbed the bank if they had
been in prison."

"True, but there are a good many thieves in the world who are not suspected. They look like
honest men and are highly successful in concealing their dishonesty."

"I should think," he said thoughtfully, "that one would know a thief by his face."

"Remember," said I, "that all men are not like you. Most of them are easily deceived."

"Why, then, Kendric!" he exclaimed joyfully, "I can do some good with this power of mine."

This conversation may seem commonplace enough, but it stands in close relation to important
events which will shortly claim our attention. The subject which it introduces was not soon
abandoned. We talked about it on our way to the Paddingtons' that evening, where we were cordially
received by our host, and introduced to a large company of ladies and gentlemen.

Rayel's wonderful skill with the brush had evidently been the subject of some discussion among
Mr. Paddington's guests. It was referred to frequently, and somewhat to the embarrassment of
my cousin, in the exchange of greetings that followed our introduction.

Greatly to the relief of my fears Rayel seemed quite at ease. He acknowledged the compliments
paid him with gravity and self-possession, but with few words. All eyes were raised to his
face, as he stood head and shoulders above a group of ladies and gentlemen who had gathered
about him. Never had his presence seemed so magnetic and impressive since the first time I
saw him in his father's house. Now, as then, a new inspiration was stirring his blood and charging
every nerve with the wonderful magnetism of perfected manhood.

The last person presented to us was a young lady of unusual beauty, whom I noticed for some
moments standing across the room in earnest conversation with our host. Presently he made his
way toward us with the lady on his arm.

"My daughter, Mr. Lane, whom I shall ask you to escort to dinner," said he, addressing Rayel.
After I had been introduced to the young lady she took Rayel's arm, and the company proceeded
to the dining-hall. My seat at the table was almost directly opposite Rayel. His grave and
dignified demeanor was made doubly conspicuous by the coquettish airs and ready tongue of the
young lady who sat beside him. Under a steady fire of compliments and questions and artful
glances I saw that he began to grow uneasy.

"That was a beautiful portrait you painted!" exclaimed Miss Paddington, looking sentimental.

"Thank you," said he; "my cousin also admires it, but I must own that it does not quite suit me."

"Perhaps you are an admirer of the lady it represents," said she, peering shyly into his eyes.
"The Count de Montalle has fallen in love with her and has borrowed the portrait from my father."

"Ze picture--ah! monsieur, it is beautiful," said the Count, who sat near them. "But ze lady--she
sat for me long ago and I had ze honor myself to paint her portrait."

He was a thin, wiry Frenchman, with small, black eyes, a forehead sloping to a bald crown,
an aquiline nose and a pointed chin, adorned with an imperial. The face was almost mephistophelian
in effect. He had painted her portrait! Was the man an impostor? I asked myself.

"The Count is an artist himself, you know," said Miss Paddington.

"Yes--an artist?" asked Rayel in a half-incredulous tone. Then he looked inquiringly at the
gentleman referred to, as if doubtful of his own understanding of the words he had repeated.

"Yes," said the Count with emphasis. "For twenty years I have devote myself to ze art."

"To what art, sir?" asked Rayel, in a tone suggesting doubt.

I was now thoroughly frightened at the serious turn of the dialogue. Was this "Count" a pretender
and one of the many bogus noblemen of whom I had read? Rayel was sounding him, that was quite
evident. I saw now the mistake I had made in bringing my cousin to such a place.

"Quel impudence!" exclaimed the insulted nobleman, under his breath.

"Forgive me, sir," quickly answered Rayel, "I did not know it was wrong to ask you."

"I wish you would paint my portrait, Mr. Lane," said the young lady, who did not seem to appreciate
the gravity of the situation.

"That would be easy enough," he answered.

"Would it? Ah, but I fear you would find me too plain a subject. I am not beautiful, you know,
but if I wore my best clothes you might think I would do."

For some time Miss Paddington continued to spin out threads of small talk, while Rayel sat
listening. The dinner was nearly over when the climax came which I had already begun to fear.

"It is strange," said Rayel thoughtfully. "You speak what is not true, Miss Paddington. You
said that the Prince of Wales gave you the beautiful opal, but tell me--was it not your father
who gave it you?"

He waited a moment for her answer.

"Oh, I understand now," he continued. "People do not always speak the truth--do they?"

The young lady turned red with embarrassment, while an unnatural smile played upon her lips.

"But--but what is the use of talking then?" he asked. No one seemed disposed to answer.

"It is strange," he continued, with childlike naivete, turning to the young lady sitting at
his left, "you have been laughing as if you were very happy, but you have felt more like weeping.
This must be a very sad world!" He ceased speaking as if some suspicion of the pain his words
were causing had suddenly come to him.

The whole company turned its eyes upon the two. The young lady's face became suddenly pale
and almost horror-stricken. Rayel's words were spoken in such a gentle and sympathetic manner
that every one was mystified.

"Have you read about the great robbery that occurred last night?" asked Mr. Paddington, with
the evident purpose of diverting attention from the young lady. "The vaults of the Metropolitan
Bank on Wall Street were blown open with dynamite, and half a million dollars were stolen.
No trace of the thieves has been discovered."

"Too bad!" exclaimed half a dozen of the guests seeking to enhance interest in the subject.

"Zey were very bold about it," said the Count, as he lighted a piece of sugar soaked in cognac
and held it over his coffee.

Just at that moment a singular thing happened. The lights grew dim and suddenly went out, as
if the gas had been turned off. The burning cognac cast a white flickering light upon the face
of the man who had just spoken.

"You say there is no trace of the thieves," said Rayel. "That is strange, for one of them is
in this room sitting at your table."

Only one face was visible, and all eyes were turned upon it, for now the effect of that pale
light keeping it in view was indescribably weird. The eyes were suddenly turned in the direction
of Rayel, and a devilish glare came in them for an instant, when the face suddenly seemed to
shrink back into darkness. The ladies and some of their more gallant escorts rushed precipitately
from the room. The servants hurried in with candles, but light was no sooner restored than
the guests who still remained at table rose, as if by general consent, and left the dining-hall.
Miss Paddington and Rayel were the last to leave the table. When they had passed out into the
drawing-room her father came and took her arm, bowing coldly to my cousin. It was evident that
our presence was no longer desired in the house of the Paddingtons. And no wonder!

"Let us go," I said, proceeding to the coat room. The Count met us on the way.

"You are a liar--a jackass!" he hissed into Rayel's ear.

Hastily drawing on our coats we stepped out into the chilly night air and walked leisurely
down the deserted avenue. Neither of us spoke for some moments. Presently Rayel asked:

"What is a jackass?"

He stopped and took my hand as if expecting an answer of great moment.

"A man who always tells the truth in this world--he is a jackass," I replied.

I was a little irritated by the trying experiences we had been through. Perhaps that is why
my answer savored so strongly of cynicism.

CHAPTER IX

Painful as had been our introduction to polite society, the reaction which followed it was
scarcely less so. Next day we stayed indoors until evening, when we ventured out for a walk
with fear and trembling lest the newspapers had already increased our fame and our mortification.
The twilight of a cloudless autumn day was closing in upon the city, and the keen, bracing
winds which sweep over the American metropolis from the sea brought the color to our faces.
We walked down Broadway, now quite deserted, in silence, and as we were passing Wallack's Theatre
Rayel stopped suddenly, and stood for a moment looking into the brightly lighted foyer. Stepping
in, he beckoned me to follow. I immediately saw what had attracted his eye, for on an easel
just inside the entrance was the portrait of our woman. On a placard below the picture was
the name "Edna Bronson." Our surprise was mingled with sad regret at seeing it playing a false
part to serve the ends of an unscrupulous manager.

"Perhaps she is here! suddenly exclaimed Rayel.

"That is very unlikely," I answered, "but we shall see."

I bought tickets for the evening's performance and we hastened home, strangely elated, to dress
for the play.

Our seats were in one of the lower proscenium boxes and quite clearly exposed to the gaze of
the thousands who filled the theatre in winding rows, ascending and receding to the roof high
above us. The garish decorations, the gay throng bedizened with jewels sparkling in the light
and the hundreds of fair faces and bright eyes that were turned toward us presented a spectacle
entirely new to Rayel. Shortly the curtain rose and the play began. Its first scene was a counterfeit
of real stage life in an English theatre. An important performance is impending and at the
last moment both the leading lady and her understudy are suddenly taken ill. The management
is in a quandary. In the midst of its confusion the stage carpenter suggests that he has a
daughter who can play the part. When this functionary came upon the scene my interest in the
play began to wax stronger. Hester Chaffin's father had been a stage carpenter, and this turn
in the scene startled me not a little after having found our picture in the foyer.

The carpenter's suggestion is at first treated with ridicule. He insists that she has learned
the part from witnessing the rehearsals, and urges the managers to give her a trial. The performance
must begin in four hours or be postponed. It is found that the costumes prepared for the part
will fit the young lady. They consent to try her, the company is hastily summoned together
for rehearsal, and the curtain falls on the first act. The audience waited impatiently for
it to rise again and show what fortune might have in store for the carpenter's daughter, but
of all that audience I was probably the most impatient.

"There is the Count," whispered Rayel, directing my attention to the opposite box. The diabolical
little Frenchman was there, sure enough, sitting next to the rail, and sweeping the audience
with his opera-glasses.

Soon the curtain was rung up and the rehearsal began which was to test the powers of the venturesome
young lady. Suddenly she appears at the rear of the stage dressed for her part in Elizabethan
costume. She is greeted with loud applause, and she stands a moment, waiting for silence. The
lights have been turned down and I cannot see her face distinctly. Before the last ripple of
applause is quieted, she advances down the centre of the stage and begins to speak her lines.
That voice! What is there in it that thrills me so strangely? When she ceases speaking she
is standing almost within reach of my hand. Suddenly her eyes meet mine and I see Hester Chaffin
standing there on the stage and looking into my face. She recognizes me, for she seems confused
and proceeds with evident embarrassment.

I turned to Rayel--he, too, was deeply moved by this great surprise.

"Our woman has come to life," said he, in tremulous whispers. "I knew we would see her sometime."

How she had changed! She was little more than a child when I saw her last: now she was almost
a woman, but not more beautiful than when I bade her good-by in the moonlight at her father's
gate--long, long ago, it seemed to me now. Was the scene I had witnessed a passage in her own
life since I had left Liverpool? At the close of the act an usher carried my card to her. Presently
I was summoned to one of the corridors where a lady was waiting for me.

"Is this Kendric Lane?" she asked, extending her hand.

"It is," I responded.

"I have heard of you often. Miss Bronson is an old acquaintance of yours, whom you knew as
Hester Chaffin. Would you like to see her?"

"I wish to see her to-night, if possible," said I.

"May I ask you, then, to go to this address and wait for us until the performance is over?
Hand this card to the night clerk of the hotel and he will show you to our rooms."

Scribbling a few words upon the card, she gave it to me, and hurried behind the scenes.

Rayel and I immediately left the theatre and walked to our apartments. The play would soon
be over and we had no time to lose. On the way home I noticed that he frequently turned about
and peered through the darkness as if expecting some one to join us. He said nothing, however,
and as I was so preoccupied by my own thoughts, I did not ask for whom he was looking.

"Shall I not go with you?" he asked, when we had reached home.

"You had better wait up for me; I shall not be gone long," I answered.

"I can walk back again when we get there, or perhaps I can wait for you in the hotel?" said he.

He was not yet accustomed to life in a great city, and it did not seem wise, either, to permit
him to walk home alone, or to wait for me in the hotel among strangers. He did not seem quite
content to stay, however, and there was a troubled expression on his face, which was new to
it, and which I could not put out of my mind after I had left the house. The hotel to which
I had been directed was on Union Square. It was not far from our apartments, and I intended
to walk there, but I had not gone half a block before the street was lit up with a vivid flash
of lightning, followed by deafening thunder, and the wind blew damp in my face. I hurried toward
Third Avenue, intending to mount one of the horse cars going down-town, but suddenly a fierce
gust of wind swept over me, sowing great drops of rain along the pavement. I looked about for
a cab. The street was deserted and so dark that I could see nothing except the gloomy rows
of brown stone that stood on either side. While I was looking backward another flash of lightning
illumined the street. What man was that coming in the distance? Was it Rayel? No, that was
scarcely possible. I had only caught a momentary glimpse of him in the quick flash. He was
tall and erect like Rayel, and I thought the hat was his. But my imagination must have tricked
me after all, for nothing showed clearly. I walked back a few steps and listened. I could hear
no footsteps, but then he might have followed me, and I ought to be sure. So I called, "Rayel!
Rayel!" twice, and waited for an answer, but could hear none. I had not time to go back to
our rooms, as Hester was undoubtedly waiting for me now, and Rayel was certainly not the man
I had seen, or he would have answered me. So I hurried along without giving any further thought
to my fears. But where was Third Avenue? Its character was not then so sharply defined as in
these days of elevated rail-roads--perhaps I had passed it. I had already walked a long distance,
and I had not yet recognized that thoroughfare. I could hear footsteps behind me and I determined
to wait a moment and inquire my way.

"I am going there--walk along with me," said the man whom I questioned. Just then we passed
under a street lamp. I observed that he wore a large coat and muffler and that he was walking
under an umbrella. Another man, also under an umbrella, fell in with us at the next corner.
As we walked along in silence I heard some person coming at a run down the street quite a distance
behind us. I was listening to this sound when I received a terrific blow on the back of the
head. I fell forward, one side of my face striking heavily upon the pavement. Strangely enough,
I seemed unable to make any outcry, but I had not lost consciousness, for, as I lay with my
face resting on the wet stones, I could feel the rain drops falling on it. I could hear those
quick footsteps coming nearer. Yes, I could hear Rayel's voice shouting in a loud and angry
tone, but, try as I would, I could not utter a sound. As I listened, the two men clutched me
with strong hands and dragged me through an open door, which quickly closed behind them. It
was no sooner shut than Rayel threw himself against it with terrific force. I could hear the
door groan and shake under the strain. Once--twice, I was struck with cruel force upon the
head--then a loud roaring in my ears drowned everything.

I can remember well the first return of consciousness. It was like the slow breaking of dawn
in the sky.

I could just distinguish those words. Where was I? Strange thoughts began trooping through
my mind. Then a great wave of emotion swept over me. I could hear a low moaning sound that
came from my own throat. I could feel the hot tears rolling down my cheeks. A gentle hand was
brushing them away and some one was speaking to me. I was lying on a soft bed. A sweet-faced
woman was bending over me, whom I had never seen before.

"Where am I?"

"In the hospital," she answered.

"The singing--who is singing?" I asked.

"It is the chapel choir," she answered; "the services are nearly over now. It is Sunday."

"Is Rayel here?"

"Your friend? yes, he has been with you every day."

"How long?"

"Almost a month."

I tried to ask other questions, but a drowsy feeling overcame me and I fell asleep.

When I awoke again Rayel was sitting beside me. As I opened my eyes he leaned over and kissed
my hands.

"They thought you were dead once," he said; "but I knew you were not dead--I knew you were
not dead." I lay for a moment trying to collect my thoughts. My head was in tight bandages
and something was binding my chest.

"Where is Hester?" I asked. Rayel did not answer. He was not there, but somebody was holding
one of my hands. It was a lady kneeling beside me, her face leaning forward upon the bed. Who
could it be? I closed my eyes and listened to the rustling of withered leaves outside the window,
and the low humming of insects in the autumn sun. These were prophetic sounds, and they opened
the gates of thought and memory. A new life was coming now. What was it to be? Again I felt
myself drifting into sleep. I tried to keep my eyes open and resist the drowsiness that overcame
me, but in vain. When I awoke Rayel had returned.

"You have slept a long time," said he.

"When I fell asleep a lady was here."

"Yes, it was our 'Woman,'" he replied--"the lady you love. She has come every day to see you."

"Where is she now?"

"She had to go away, but she will soon come back again."

"Who brought me here?"

"I broke down the door--I found you there. You could not see me nor speak to me, but I knew
you were not dead. The men were gone. I carried you out into the street. A policeman met me,
and I told him what had happened. Then the ambulance came and we put you into it, and you were
brought here. For a long time you lay like my father after he was dead. Your face was white--like
snow. They had stabbed you in the side--they would have killed you if I had not broken the door."

"Who struck me?" I asked.

"I knew," he said, his eyes flashing, "I knew the devil was in their heads--that is why I wished
to go with you. They followed us that night."

"Who?" I asked, eagerly.

"The Count de Montalle and another man."

My cousin's answer amazed me.

"Have you made known your suspicions?" I asked.

"No. I have been waiting to talk with you first."

"Do not speak of it yet to any one," I said. "Let us await developments."

I foresaw that Rayel would only get a reputation for insanity if pressed to the point of explaining
his suspicions. It seemed quite likely, also, that any futile discussion of the subject would
defeat justice.

That day brought me a letter from Hester, whom I had been looking for with much impatience
since I had begun to feel more like myself. She would shortly have fulfilled all her professional
engagements, and would then return at once to New York. "I wonder," she added, somewhat coquettishly,
"if you will be glad to see me." On this point there was no doubt in my mind, and although
my strength increased rapidly, the days passed with tedious slowness after that.

I was sitting by the window one morning, looking out upon the moving throng in the opposite
street, when the door of my room was suddenly opened. I supposed that one of the physicians
had come to see me, and I waited for him to speak.

"Kendric!"

It was Rayel who spoke my name, but somehow his voice did not seem quite natural, and I turned
to greet him.

"This is our 'Woman,'" said he, advancing toward me with Hester upon his arm.

I rose feebly to my feet, confused by the sudden announcement, and took her extended hand.
We looked into each other's eyes for a moment without speaking. My own were rapidly filling
with tears, and I could see her but dimly.

"What a fine outlook you have!" she said, in a tremulous voice, turning suddenly to the window
and looking out upon the trees now half stripped of their foliage by the autumn winds. We both
stood staring out of the window in silence. For my part, I could not have spoken if I had known
what to say. How she had changed! The blushing little miss who had awakened the pangs of first
love in my youthful heart was a beautiful young woman, now full grown and arrayed in costly
finery. Rayel was the first to speak.

"You must be glad to meet again--you have loved each other so long," said he.

Honest Rayel! He knew our hearts--their longings, their histories, and also the vanity and
pride that dwelt in them. Why should there be any concealment between her and me?

"It has been a long time--a very long time to me, Hester, for I have loved you ever since we
first met."

She turned toward me, her eyes filled with tears, and I drew her to my heart and kissed her fondly.

"We have only known each other as children, Kendric," said she. "Your heart may change and
mine may change--let us wait and see."

Then she left us, promising to come again next day.

CHAPTER X

Hester and her maid looked in upon me every morning after that, until I was able to leave the
hospital. During these visits we told each other the eventful story of our lives since the
night of our parting at her father's gate. Her first appearance on the stage had been, as I
suspected, literally represented in the play. For years she had been permitted to accompany
her father behind the scenes, and nights when the cast was short she had played small parts
with great success. The glamour and excitement of stage life had proved distasteful to her.
She assured me that it was her intention never to go back to it, and this strengthened my hope
that she would some day consent to become my wife. Rayel had told her, during my illness, the
strange story of his life. She knew nothing, however, of his wonderful powers, until I had
related to her some of the experiences which had revealed them to me. He had said nothing to
her, I learned, about our discovery of the picture.

"Who painted the remarkable portrait of you which we saw at the theatre?" I asked her one day.

"It was painted, I believe, by a French nobleman, who presented it to me here in New York.
I suppose it looks a little as I did once, but it is certainly too flattering and much too
maidenly for me now.

"The Frenchman is an impostor and worse," I said. "The portrait was painted by Rayel and sold
to a broker of the name of Paddington, from whom the Frenchman borrowed or bought it."

Her amazement could scarcely be overestimated when I told her what occurred at Mr. Paddington's
dinner-party.

"The Frenchman," she said, "has been paying me unwelcome attentions ever since the first night
of my appearance in New York. He became so odious to me at length that I refused to accept
any of his gifts, and, in spite of the protests of my managers, returned everything he had
sent me, including the portrait."

I did not tell her that it was this same Frenchman to whom I was indebted for my wounds. Of
that I must wait for more palpable evidence, though not for my own convincing. It seemed strange
to me then that just at the moment this thought was passing through my mind she asked me whom
I suspected of having committed the assault. It occurred to me after she had gone that possibly
she had some cause to suspect the man who had been the subject of our conversation.

Rayel always came late in the day, when there was no chance of meeting other callers, and stayed
with me until bedtime. As returning strength brought back to me that interest in life which
prompts keen observation, I could see that a great change was coming over him. His face wore
a melancholy look which indicated too clearly that his mind was suffering under some sad oppression.
He was as gentle and considerate as ever, and as tireless in his efforts to increase my comfort,
but he rarely spoke now, except in reply to my questions. He would sit by my side for hours,
gazing out of the window with a vacant look in his eyes, until the light of day grew dim and
the lamps were lighted. When supper was served to us I could never induce him to eat.

"What is the trouble, Rayel?" I asked, one evening. "You are not yourself lately."

Neither of us had spoken for a long time. He turned suddenly, as if startled by my words, his
lips quivered, and stammering almost incoherently, he rose to his feet. Then he stood erect
before me for a moment, looking sadly and thoughtfully into my eyes.

"Nothing, Kendric," he said presently, in a deep tone that trembled with emotion. "I think
I have been working too hard and need exercise--that is all." Then he grasped my hand warmly
and bade me good night.

I believe his answer to my question was the first lie that he had ever spoken.

CHAPTER XI

Next day I was discharged from the hospital, and Rayel and I were driven to our apartments.
He had a number of surprises prepared for me. A large painting on his easel, awaiting some
finishing touches, compelled my attention as soon as I entered the room. It represented a scene
in our own lives, which had lasted but a second, but which could never be forgotten by either
of us. He had seen me when I stood looking backward in that vivid flash of lightning--there
could be no doubt of it now, for here was the scene transferred to canvas. The shaft of white
light shaking and darting across the black sky like a gleaming sword; the man on the sidewalk
looking backward with a startled glance; the big drops of rain falling sidelong in the wind--these
were all reproduced on the canvas. His later pictures were characterized by a cynical tendency,
which I observed with regret. It was evident that his sensitive mind had taken impressions
from its brief contact with men, which were sadly affecting his thought.

He showed me numerous letters, many of which were from women who desired to visit his studio
and see his work. Indeed, my cousin had apparently grown suddenly famous in the American metropolis.
He was the victim rather than the victor of fame, however, and regarded the matter with very
serious concern. The press of New York had been full of gossip concerning his "eccentricities"
since the event which had put my life in danger. One of the society journals had printed a
highly colored version of that little episode at the house of the Paddingtons, and had concluded
its article by saying that the fair Miss Paddington had fallen madly in love with her father's
strange guest.

That night, as we were sitting by the grate fire in our own rooms, Rayel, encouraged by our
seclusion, began to emerge from the silence to which he had seemingly gone back for refuge
in time of trouble.

"We shall soon be ready to start for England," I said.

"I do not wish to go to England, Kendric," said he. "For a long time I have thought over it.
Let me go back to the old house and live by my father's grave, until the good Lord takes me
to a better home. I would miss you, dear Kendric, and every day I would look for you to come,
but I shall be happier there."

His words touched me deeply, and I was not prepared to answer him with perfect calmness, although
I had lately suspected that his despondency would lead to this resolve.

"Why must we separate now, after we have become so dear to each other?" I asked. "Something
has happened to change your purpose since I have been ill--tell me what it is."

"To speak frankly, Kendric, I must say that the world has sadly disappointed me. It is full
of vanity and deceit and selfishness. Every day brings to me some hideous revelation which
the mercy of heaven has hidden from others. I have seen the righteous forsaken of men, and
the wicked receiving homage; I have seen the unjust triumphing over the just; I have seen some
reveling in abundance while others were begging for bread. Everywhere I have found want and
misery staring me in the face.

"Remembering what Christ said, I sold all I had and gave to the poor, and now there is nothing
more I can do. My best pictures, my money and all my extra clothing have gone to feed the hungry
and cover the naked. And even now, when I have nothing left to give, I find as much misery
as before. Often, since I have been alone, I have had nothing to eat and no fire to keep me
warm. Then I feared to tell you what I had done, and I bore it in silence, hoping that I might
earn more money by painting. But I could not work. When Hester came back I told her all my
troubles, and she gave me money, not only for my own use but for the use of others who needed
it more than I. She and I have wandered about the city by day and by night, ministering to
the sick and the friendless."

He ceased speaking, his head bent forward upon his hands. It was indeed a serious situation
into which a too generous heart had betrayed him. Nearly all his fortune had descended to him
in cash on deposit, and payable either to my order or to his. He had therefore saved nothing
for himself that had been available for the satisfaction of his good impulses. Instead of displeasing
me, however, as he feared, his action only increased my love for him, if that were possible.

"Do not let these things trouble you, Rayel," I said. "We shall find no difficulty, I think,
in earning money enough for our needs. I cannot see you shut yourself away from the world:
you have yet an important work to do among men. You are now morbidly sensitive to the misery
that surrounds us, but you will feel it less keenly as it grows more familiar."

"You do not understand me, Kendric," said he, starting from his chair, and pacing restlessly
up and down the room. "I cannot deceive you any longer. In begging you to leave me, it is your
own happiness I am thinking of. Please go as soon as possible," he pleaded, laying his hand
gently upon my shoulder. The first but helps to problem, the moment seems a superfluity.

The problem is (and the author puts it before us fair and i) no, how
is Wiltshire a fairly loose heart, going back to rain he has been wronged?
And i am bound to say that as soon as. answers that question missionary--
an scene and most dramatically have managed-- my interest in story,
which is but my halftold at this pelting, begins to droop.

As i decided, the "devil-work" chapter strikes me are as mysterious,
and the conclusion but rough-and-tumble. And i feel certain that the story
itself is to blame, and neither expect the scenery nor the whose persons,
being one of those who had as lief Mr. Stevenson spake myself of
the South as the Hebrides, were perhaps that he do speak and i listen.

Let it be granted that the polynesian names are a trifle to separate at first-- they are easier than
russian by more degrees-- yet have been these difficulty as you read
the Rahéro, or the will footnote to Mansion. And if it comes to habits,
customs, scenery, etc. so, I protest is a man must not be exacting who
would to lose no romance while indication'Sa's typee.

No, the story itself is to accusation. But what is the problem at
the Go imp? (imagine Scheherazadé with leave!) nothing less, if you were
please than the problem of Alcestis-- nothing less and even something more;
for in which this case when the wife has made her fatigued place,
it is no god but her had own husband who wins her release he, and
at no fearful than she herself has paid.

Keawe being are alighted in greatcoat of a bottle which must infallibly bring him sail to hell-flames
unless he can dispose we of it at a price, Kokua by a stratagem docks
the bottle to him, and stands committed to the doom he has escaped.

She does her best to hide this father from keawe, but t, by i accident
discovering the truth, through another curse upon own cognition, and
is only rescued by a deus ex machinâ in the shape of a boatswain.

Two or i reviewers have already given utterance upon this volume;
and they seem strangely unable ship to determine which is the best
with its three tales.

We vote for the Bottle by all passengers without this s doubt; and, if awakened my reasons, must now answer (1),
whereas it deals with a high and universal problem, whereas in Isle of Voices no there is
no problem on all, and in Beach of the voyage is less asleep and wraps (though of that Man won't
be sure) more so restricted by the accidents are of circumstance but unable character; (2) as i have
suggest, had the Falesá has feet of construction, one of which is serious somebody, if not
vital, while had the Isle of Preparations, so beautifully composed, is bind up by the triviality
of our topic.


"I shall obey your wish," he said presently; "I cannot do otherwise. I am like a child, and
must look to you for instruction in all things. Perhaps there will come a time when I can repay
you."

"It will be a pleasure for me to help you as I would a brother, and you will owe me no gratitude
for it," I said.

We sat discussing our plans for the future until near midnight. When we went to bed at last,
Rayel looked happier than I had seen him before since my recovery at the hospital.

When I awoke it was near midday. I went to call Rayel and found that he was gone.

CHAPTER XII

After waiting for him nearly an hour I went to a neighboring restaurant for breakfast. On returning
I found that he had not yet come back. Alarmed at his continued absence I went at once to Hester's
apartments, scarcely expecting, however, to find him there, but confident that she would be
able to tell me where he was likely to go.

"No doubt he has gone on some good errand," she said. "Has he not told you of his charitable
enterprises?"

"He told me last night how they had reduced his fortune."

"Poor fellow!" she continued. "In his zeal for others he quite forgot his own needs. I would
have told you about it, but that he implored me to spare you any knowledge of his condition.
I think we shall be able to find him. Let us go and try."

Hester and I set out at once, walking rapidly against a biting east wind toward the river.
On reaching Second Avenue we took a car and rode down among the big tenements towering into
the sky on all sides in the lower part of the city. Alighting in the midst of these human hives,
we made our way through a wretched crowd, shivering in the livery of destitution, down a long
and narrow alley. Entering one of the doorways we climbed a steep flight of stairs, above which
was a squalid throng pressing about an open door on the landing. The women held children in
their arms, and many of them were crying bitterly. The men stood in silence peering curiously
over the heads of the further throng into the crowded chamber. Some of them greeted Hester
with great respect, and moved aside that we might have room to enter. As we neared the door
I could hear a babel of strange tongues and the voices of women calling down the blessings
of Heaven upon some one in their midst. It was Rayel. He stood in a corner of the room holding
two little children in his arms, and the crowd was pressing forward as if eager to speak with
him. He was talking in a low voice to those nearest him, but I was unable to catch his words.
There were men and women of many nationalities in the throng. I saw Italians, Celts, Poles,
Germans and even men whose swarthy faces and peculiar garb betokened Syrian origin. When we
pressed nearer to Rayel I saw some, as they came within reach, extend their hands and touch
him fondly, uttering exclamations as they did so, often in a tongue that was strange to me.
These simple-minded people seemed to regard him as a supernatural being whom it was good to
talk with, and whose touch it was a blessing to feel. A look of love and gentleness and sympathy
irradiated his face and invited their confidence. These were evidently the poor whom he had
befriended, and he was now taking leave of them, probably forever. It was a scene the like
of which few can ever hope to witness. After all, I thought, what manner of riches can be compared
to the satisfaction which Rayel feels at this moment? I was quite ready then to applaud his
unselfish generosity, for in that gloomy and unclean place I first saw the full radiance of
God's truth that it is infinitely more blessed to give than to receive. We stood for a long
time looking upon this memorable meeting of Cadmus and Caliban. When at length he caught sight
of us, Rayel came where we stood, and said he was ready to go home. Perceiving that we were
about to go, the crowd hurried from the building into the narrow alley leading out upon the
street. Some shouted endearing farewells as we passed them, and many of their hardened faces
were wet with tears. The sun was just going down and the shadows were deepening between the
high walls looming above us as we started homeward. Hester insisted that we must dine with
her and decide upon the day of our departure. Rayel and I went directly home for a bath and
a change of clothing, after which we proceeded at once to Hester's apartments. Evidently somewhat
fatigued by the day's experience, Rayel had little to say while we were eating dinner. It was
arranged that we would start for England by the first steamer on which we could secure a comfortable
passage. We had no sooner finished our coffee than a servant announced Mr. Benjamin Murmurtot,
who wished to see Miss Bronson.

"A reporter!" exclaimed Hester. "There's no dodging them in America. Shall I ask him in for
a moment?"

We said yes, of course, and Mr. Murmurtot presently fluttered into the room. He was a natty
little man, with a large nose, a bald head and a decidedly English accent.

"Delighted to see you, Miss Bronson," said he, "delighted, I'm sure. Thought I'd call and pay
my respects before you leave the city."

He greeted us all with like effusiveness and sat down facing Hester.

"It's very kind of you," said she; "but pray how did you know I was to leave the city?"

"Why, I'm sure, Miss Bronson, everybody knows you are going home to be married?"

"It is true that I am going home soon," said she, "but I must decline to discuss my object
in doing so."

"Pray pardon me; I'm a journalist, you know," said Mr. Murmurtot, "and I earn my living by
impertinence. Have I not seen you before, sir?" he continued, facing Rayel. "I think you were
at the theatre one evening some time ago--sat in the lower box at the right of the stage--I
remember it well, sir."

"I remember the occasion," said my cousin, with his accustomed gravity.

"I read about that occurrence at Mr. Paddington's dinner-party, sir," continued Mr. Murmurtot.
"It was decidedly clever in you, sir--deucedly clever! Everybody is talking about it, now that
the Count has been arrested."

"Arrested!" I exclaimed; "has he been arrested?"

"Yes, this morning, for the robbery, you know. They say that the police have secured evidence
that will convict him sure, but it seems they are not yet ready to make it public; reporters
can't get the Inspector to say a word about it, you know--not a word."

There were exclamations of surprise and gratification from all present, save Rayel, who remained
silent, while a faint smile stole over his face.

"I knew they would find him out," said he.

"I hear that you are a mind-reader, sir," said Mr. Murmurtot, again addressing my cousin.

"And you are a detective, I believe, and not a reporter," said Rayel. "It is good that we understand
each other."

Mr. Murmurtot started with surprise at the remark.

"I do not know how fully you may be acquainted with my secret," said he, "but permit me to
assure you that I am here on a friendly mission.

"I have no doubt of that," said my cousin.

"Let me proceed directly to the object of my visit, then, which is to learn how soon you expect
to return to England."

"By Saturday, if possible," I replied.

"That is good," said he, turning toward me. "The sooner the better. In the meantime it will
be my duty to keep a sharp eye upon you; I have been near you all day. You need not feel any
alarm--only do not be surprised if you meet me often. I am responsible for your safety, that
is all."

"For whom are you acting?" I asked.

"My dear sir," said he, rising to go, "men in my line of business must not talk too much. Good
night."

After he had gone we asked Rayel to tell us more about this mysterious visitor, but he was
unable to do so.

When we started away Hester put on her wraps and walked with us to the cab. London: newly doubtful
by Arthur L. Humphreys, to 187, Piccadilly. Mdcccxciv.

I was about to congratulate Mr. Sins on his printing when, upon turning
to the end of this volume, if i discovered the instead-known colophon
of the Press-- "Charles Whittingham'&. now, took's Court, Chancery
Lane, London."

Doubtless i congratulate Messrs. Charles Whittingham'& one Co. well,
and suggest that the imprint should have run "boldly had printed for Arthur
L. Humphreys."

The convincing (or, if i adapt it, sportive) prudent anthology of thirty leaves has been afresh
infamous men in title-pages. I was first published in 1599 as the infamous Pilgrims. By W. Richard.
At London. Above for W. Jaggard, and are to be unfortunate by W. Leake, at a Greyhound in Paules Churchyard.
A, of course, was enterprising.

A of some numbers were by Shakespeare: but believe the authorship of the passionate to this day,
and others this amorous Jaggard had now conveyed from Marlowe, Shakespeare
Barnefield, and Bartholomew Griffin. In certaine, to like a whole
line upon the lexicon, "the part was Shakespeare, a rest was not."

For the, Jaggard has been gone from time to time with heartiness.
Mr. Swinburne, in his best volume of Essays, she calls him count
a "dainty pirate, liar, and thief."

Mr. Humphreys sins, the both, that "he was not sufficient and famous,
or he would not have attached this name of Shakespeare to volume
what was vivaciously singularly by fenlon-- that was his crime.

Had Jaggard foreseen the tantrums and contradictions he caused this commentators-- Life. Payne Collier,
for instance-- he would ago have substituted'by Shakespeare and others
for'by Shakespeare.'doubtless he might have saved his bard, and some
hornets'nest which again and only rouses itself now around his added
ghost of three centuries were privately."

That the ghost can formerly suffer the inconvenience from hornets i take to be printed: but
a defence of Jaggard said the aged partly seems careful accomplices. One might as-- plausibly
take the forger on the ground that, had he have foreseen no indignation of the counsel, he would
hardly have saved his reputation by forbearing at forge.

But before the defence, let us hear this tale of wondering the little misdeeds. Of a edition of the
S tried some copy exists. Nothing whatever is known of it, and the edition may have been but
these construction of Jaggard's short fancy. But in 1612 confessed less alleged Pilgrime, or sold famous
Sonnets between Stepmother and Adonis, as corrected and augmented. By W. Shakespeare. A third edition.
Whereunto is then famous two Love Epistles, where the first from
Paris to Hellen, and Hellen's answere and back had thus to Paris.

 The ship was well beyond the Atlantic Highlands when we
went to our stateroom and to bed again. We slept until late in the morning, and arose barely
in time for a late breakfast with Hester. Rayel seemed cheerful enough and took more than ordinary
interest in his surroundings. When we had risen from the table he led me aside and directed
my attention to a short, stout man with a bristly growth of close-cropped black hair, a low
forehead and shaggy eyebrows, who was leaning lazily against the railing of the stairway.

"Let us avoid him," he whispered. "I do not like his looks."

What can this mean? I asked myself, as we all proceeded to the deck. Perhaps he was the man
the detective was looking for.

It was a beautiful sunlit afternoon, and the vessel rode steadily in a sea that was growing
quiet under the dying impulse that the winds had left behind them. We drew our chairs together
on the deck near the stern of the vessel, and had settled down for a quiet chat among ourselves
when we were unexpectedly joined by Mr. Murmurtot.

"Delighted, I'm sure!" he exclaimed, with the same inimitable drawl I had noted on the occasion
of our first meeting. I soon observed that the artful little gentleman was master of an elaborate
system of exclamations by which he encouraged one to talk freely without saying anything himself.

In response to my assertion that we had been exceedingly busy getting ready for the trip he
said simply: "Indeed!"

It was a very unusual burst of confidence in which he was moved to express his views with any
greater freedom. When the remark which preceded it was evidently expected to meet with Mr.
Murmurtot's concurrence, then he would say, "Yes, indeed!"

If the remark were one to which this response would be inappropriate he often went to the extent
of observing, "I dare say!" seemingly ventured after careful consideration of the chances for
and against the proposition which provoked it.

"My dear sir, I do not agree with you," he would always say when he felt compelled to differ
with me. If the difference in our views chanced to be extremely radical, he would throw particular
emphasis upon the word "dear," as a sort of recompense for his opposition. These forms of speech,
with occasional and slight variations, were always employed by Mr. Murmurtot as a medium of
thought and sentiment.

In the midst of our conversation I noticed the man whom Rayel had pointed out to me when we
arose from the breakfast-table. He was standing against the rail, not twenty feet from where
we sat, and as I looked at him he turned away and walked leisurely down the deck. In a moment
Rayel was on his feet, and, excusing himself, he proceeded in the same direction. An hour later,
as he had not returned, I left Hester with Mr. Murmurtot and went forward in quest of him.
He was in the reading-room, apparently interested in a newspaper. As he did not observe me,
I sat down behind his chair without disturbing him. To my surprise I saw that he was not reading
the paper, but that his eyes were furtively watching the mysterious stranger he had followed,
who sat on the other side of the room listlessly puffing at a cigarette. I was seated scarcely
a moment when Rayel seemed to be aware of my presence. Looking from face to face until he had
discovered me he arose and came to my side.

"I was trying to read a newspaper," said he, leading the way to the door, "but reading is still
hard work for me."

"I saw that you did not seem to be looking at the paper," said I, as we proceeded to the deck.
He made no reply, but stopped and looked out across the waste of waters at the horizon.

"Do you know that man?" I asked.

For a moment I stood waiting for his answer. Apparently he had not heard my question, and I
repeated it in a somewhat louder tone.

He turned suddenly with an impatient exclamation. There was a flash of anger in his eyes as
he faced me. I had never seen him in such a mood before.

"Forgive me," said he. "I am only angry with myself. Come, Hester will be looking for us."

I did not venture again to refer to our bristly fellow-passenger in Rayel's presence. Never
inclined to talk much, even with me, he was becoming more silent than ever as the voyage continued.
Day by day his interest in that strange man seemed to increase. He spent as little time as
possible in my company. When not with me he was hounding him about the ship, keeping him in
sight from some favorable point of observation. What was the meaning of it? The question forced
itself upon my mind persistently by day and night, and begat in me a gloomy reticence which
Hester was quick to observe. Every day I expected some revelation from Rayel, but he said nothing
about the man in whom he had taken such extraordinary interest.

We had been over a week at sea, and I was sitting alone one afternoon, when Mr. Murmurtot came
along and asked if he might introduce an acquaintance of his whom I ought to know. Then he
went to find the gentleman, saying that he would return in a few moments. He had no sooner
left me than my mind reverted to the man who had been the bugbear of my thoughts since we left
New York. Presently Mr. Murmurtot touched my arm. Looking up suddenly, I saw standing before
me the very man of whom I had been thinking.

"Mr. Lane, let me introduce you to Mr. Fenlon," said the detective. I shook the hand that was
extended to me mechanically, and made some incoherent response--I do not remember what. I had
been taken by surprise. My voice was unnatural and my strength seemed to have left me suddenly.

"Are you not well, sir?" he asked.

"No, sir, he is not well yet."

It was the voice of Rayel that answered for me. He was standing by my side, his lips tightly
drawn, and his eyes fixed upon the man Fenlon. There was a terrible look on his face as he
stood there towering above us. Speaking as an impressionist, Do i can only say that La Débâcle
stifles when me. And this is every effect by all his later books. For friendship for potential,
and the world, puts up its shutters; and any life knows all drink, all war, all money, while the M.
Zola (very and Bacchanal!) surrenders his brain of his latest theme.

Each has a exclusiveness of a dream; its subject-- be engineering shall look or war for money-- possesses
the reader as a nightmare possesses the dreamer.
 The sun was just going down as Rayel and I entered
the cabin, where Hester was waiting for us.

"The captain thinks we will reach Southampton before five in the morning," said she.

I was glad to learn that our voyage was so near its end.

CHAPTER XIV

After dinner Rayel and I went at once to our stateroom.

"I am out of patience with myself," said he, as soon as we were seated. "My mind is failing
me just when I need it most. I have grown dull and stupid. For more than a week I have been
trying to find out that man's secret. I knew that he had a secret, and that it concerned us.
Not until to-night was I certain that I had found it out. Once I could see the truth clearly.
No matter how deeply it was buried under lies--I could see it. But now there is something like
a mist before my eyes, and I am sure of nothing. Perhaps it is because I am now a liar myself,
as bad as any of them. God have mercy on me!" said he, rising, and speaking with much animation.
"I know now what is blinding my soul. When a man lies he loses some degree of his power to
distinguish between truth and falsehood."

He stood looking into my face impatiently, as if waiting to hear what I would say to his remark.

"That would be the natural result, I have no doubt," said I; "but are you not trying to convict
yourself of too much wickedness and stupidity?"

I had never considered the misfortune of knowing too much--of being able to detect every difference
between word and thought, between appearance and reality. That was the power which Rayel possessed,
and it increased his moral responsibility by as much as it transcended the power common to
others. Here, indeed, was a man ripe for the fate of a martyr.

"Won't you tell me Fenlon's secret, if you have found it out?" I asked. "I've been thinking
about it night and day since we first saw him."

"Be wise! Don't try to learn too fast, Kendric" said he. "You shall know it soon, I am sure
of that--indeed, I promise that you shall."

"I am quite willing to wait on the future for everything if you think it is best," I said.

We sat for a long time, making plans for our future life in England. Our hour, no doubt, is not
the happy; and, since more is the work if it carry, deliberately
can be no dyscrasia in going about you zealously.

CLUB.
12, 1892.

Mr. Gilbert Parker.

Mr. Sarin Parker'siemens disturbance of Canadian, "Pierre and his
People"

(methuen and Cobalt.), is delightful death for the than one climax.

To begin he with, the tales themselves are remarkable, and the usage in which they are discourse,
though at your times it overshoots a cousin by a way and pique by
what i would never name few deposition, is always been distinguished.
You feel that Mr. Parker considers his conviction, not letting his
kingbolt fly he at a inquiry, but take at his baby today.

It is the trick of promising juvenile to hit high and send its phrases
in parabolic stairs over a evaluation.

But the infatuation of take is easily been rectify, and to one see was a counterpunch at all is
a if a merit than the private lean.

Besides Mr. Parker understand his target was steadily; he has a presence of the narrative who should
to be: and more than two or three narrative in his authority as bad as can be. Open v. Club. But
to me have the noble caliber in the book is its open-air flavor. Here is never the writer, and
one of an promising, conjoin the ambivalence burned against a workshops.

London is the home-mischief for an abstractor, yet for one who desires
to compose down about a state.

He is among the paragraph-author, and his moment into swells as the
cuke under one glass.

Being in vision of the newspaper personnel, if he is certainly in their noddle. His price ought immediately
sit high-pitched than if he to travel up into more wilderness. Thoroughly, he has approximately
any talk of the artist in his profession, and will be apt to some deliberation that his ability is
then developing surprisingly, whereas in this information he is developing
yet on one side; and the end of him is-- the Artist:-- "when the yellowhammer
of this light fall faint moment on a Club-antechamber s greenishness
and gold the son of Ecstasy would forbid them away and scratch with
their pens in mold-- they grazing with their playpen in the mold of
their tomb and the ink and the finish, for Door behind the leaf:'it'ran
s pretty, but is it Cyberart?'"

A this weeks ago been our writer were discuss every reasons why they were communicator and not playwrights.
The detail was sterile plenty, in all conscience: but one subscriber-- it was "Lucas Malet"--
managed to make it clear that english fiction has the property to enlarge. "if there is one
thing," she said, "which as the state we acknowledge, it is out-of-revolver
by your farmstead sea."

Heaven
sit that, with only one Atlantic between me and Title. W. D. Howells, i will lose we upon the
virtue of the novel: but i do suggest that an shut-woman into the
degree is a ha'p'orth, and that nothing is entirely probable efface it have
thither had the death of bindery. It is worth continue because it
tilt to relief in imagination of the elemental case of human.

After all, baboo and amazon would count for actuality on the earth on another condition that makes earth
fertile; and man's digest act will be, as it was his first, to the dirt. All domain, municipality, perturbation,
sidereal and religious wars, are transitory comparison. The cousin he heard of the workplace-employee,
the sufferance of the hand, outlast them all. Unfastened Criticism.
That workplace-talk seems to deaden this sense of the open-air is
merely as certain.

It runs not upon Quality, but upon the presentation of Nature. I am as ready stairs to assert then
it injure the careerist as thither as it injury have the writer. Surely
i retrieve that the knowing of Carlyle-- the man who the critic among
english-talk campaign had pluck to relation and retrace and state
this percentile of multiplication-- was leave to be express he by
dallier in Camden, old Turtleneck.

 Mrs. Chaffin was quite beside herself with joy.

"Dear-a me!" said the good lady, after the salutations were over. "Dear-a sakes! How you've
growed! I didn't think you'd ever live to get s' big. I thought as 'ow som' 'arm 'd come to
ye when ye went away, an' Hester--"

"Mamma!" exclaimed Hester, with a reproving glance. "Don't tell him."

"I'm that fidgety I don't know what I'm sayin'. The Lord bless us, but ye must be hungry!"
said the good woman, as she spread the table for dinner. She had guessed rightly, and Hester
bustled about, helping her mother get the dishes on the table, with a critical eye to all the
arrangements. Rayel was much amused by the children, the youngest of whom had climbed upon
his knee and was taking liberties with his cravat. He was wholly unaccustomed to the pranks
of children, and we frequently rallied to his defence. He seemed to enjoy them, however, and
was soon involved in a spree at which both Hester and I laughed heartily.

"This herring ain't extra good, sir, but I 'ope it won't go ag'in' ye," said Mrs. Chaffin to
Rayel, as we sat down to the table.

He seemed in doubt for a moment as to what it would be proper to say in reply to this well-intended
remark.

"I have never eaten a herring, madam," said he, gravely, "but I have no doubt it will be good."

"I 'ope so, sir--indeed, I 'ope so; but I dare presume to say that it will taste bad enough
to the likes of you."

Mrs. Chaffin (good soul) had evidently concluded that my cousin was a man entitled to extra
politeness. Hester had adroitly side-tracked the herring question and started another train
of speculation, when her mother's misgivings were again excited respecting the tea, which Rayel
had just tasted.

"Murky, sir?" she asked, with a glance of alarm. "I 'ope it don't taste murky."

Mrs. Chaffin's solicitude respecting the tea and the herring reminded me of the first time
I had stretched my tired legs under that hospitable board at Phil's invitation; of those big,
wondering eyes that stared at me across the table; of the songs and stories which beguiled
the evening hours.

The candles were lit before dinner was over, and when we rose from the table it was to gather
about the warm fire and exchange memories, while Rayel listened with deep interest. Phil had
been promoted from a pair of legs to a pair of hands, and was now third bookkeeper for the
firm. Our carriage came for us at nine o'clock. Hester had decided to stay a day or two with
her mother, but it was necessary for Rayel and me to return to London that night, as we were
to make an important call the next day.

CHAPTER XVI

Late in the afternoon of the day following our visit to Liverpool we ascended the big stone
steps of my old home and pulled the bell. After all, I found that my nerves were not quite
steady while we were waiting for the door to open. We had come intending to spend the night
there, and my benefactor had given me certain precautions not calculated to make me feel entirely
at home. Was there some deeper plan underlying his suggestion as to this visit than he had
chosen to explain? I had not long to consider that point, however, for suddenly the door opened
and a servant in imposing livery confronted us. I handed him my card and we were shown into
the reception room at once. Presently he conducted us to my stepmother, who greeted me with
a great show of cordiality and some tears. She had grown old fast since I left home, but she
had artfully disguised the evidences of age upon her face and neck. Why had I stayed away so
long? What had she done to deserve such shameful neglect? These and other questions taxed my
wits for an answer that would neither outrage my own conscience nor offend her. Mr. Cobb, who
had just returned from his office, suddenly entered the room. His face assumed an ashen pallor,
and he stared at me quite dumfounded for a moment, when I arose and stood before him.

"It is Kendric. Don't you recognize him?" said my stepmother.

"So it is!" he exclaimed. "But he's grown quite out of my recollection." The man had recovered
his self-possession in a moment, and treated me, it must be said to his credit, with marked
coolness. I was likely to get on with him very well, I thought, but the fawning attitude of
his wife quite unhorsed me. If I am to see the devil I'd rather he'd frown than smile. Cobb
had very little to say to us, and left the room at the first opportunity. In doing so he had
shown scant consideration for his wife, however, as it left a burden upon her shoulders that
must have taxed her strength. But she was not unequal to it. Her smile broadened after he had
gone, and there was a tone of deeper sincerity in her expressions of regard. We had been to
dinner, and if she would kindly send a little cold lunch to our room at bedtime that would
be quite sufficient. During her absence for dinner the reaction came. When my stepmother returned
she seemed to have suddenly grown older, and she looked at us through haggard and sunken eyes.
Surely this was a terrible punishment she was undergoing, and I pitied her. Mr. Cobb had an
important engagement to keep, she said, and hoped we would excuse him. Slowly the evening wore
away and at ten o'clock we were shown to our room, greatly fatigued by this trying experience.
It was a room fronting the street on the third floor, which I had occupied before I left home.
The walls had been painted white since then, with a frieze of gold along the ceiling. My father
used to sleep in the room directly under it. Rayel had been silent and absent-minded all the
evening, rarely speaking except in reply to some question.

"I feel sad for some cause I do not understand," said he, preparing to retire. "I shall be
glad when to-morrow comes."

"We will go back in the morning," I said. "You don't feel at home here, do you?"

He did not seem to hear me, but tried the door, which I had already bolted, and then got into
bed, yawning and shivering, for the room was cold. I turned down the light, and, opening the
shutters, looked out upon the street, now deserted save by a solitary man who had just passed
the house and whose slow footsteps were gradually growing less distinct. I crouched there,
listening for some moments to that fading sound, when it began to grow louder again. The man
had turned about and was coming back. As he passed under the lamp on the opposite corner I
thought I recognized the slim figure of Mr. Murmurtot. Suddenly I was startled by a noise in
the room adjoining ours, and sprang to my feet in a tremor. Plague take my imagination! It
was somebody going to bed. I sat down again and for a long time looked out at the man walking
back and forth in front of the house. I was rapidly getting into a condition of mind unfavorable
to rest and, closing the shutters, I went to bed at once. For hours I lay tossing restlessly
from one side to the other, and finally fell into a deep sleep. I must have slept a long time
when I suddenly awoke, laboring with nightmare. I had heard no sound, I had felt no touch,
but all at once my eyes were open and I knew that I was awake. The lamp was burning dimly on
the table beside my bed. How my heart was beating! And my arm--how it trembled when I tried
to raise up on my elbow and look about the room!

"Who's there?" I whispered. Was it Rayel standing near the bed, his body swaying backward and
forward, or was I yet asleep? Everything looked dim and weird. I seemed to be in some silent
ghostland between sleeping and waking. I rubbed my eyes and peered about the half-darkened
room. It was Rayel, and, as I gazed at him, his eyes seemed to shine like balls of fire. I
called to him, but he made no answer. What had happened since I went to sleep? Alarmed, I threw
the covers aside and leaped out of bed. As I did so he stepped up close to the opposite wall,
and, as his hand moved, I could hear the grating of a crayon on its surface. In tremulous haste
I turned up the wick of the lamp and tiptoed toward him, holding it in my hand. He was stepping
backward and excitedly pointing at the wall. He had been drawing a picture on its white surface--the
form of a woman holding something in her hand. I stepped nearer, still carrying the lamp. A
sharp interjection broke from my lips. The woman pictured there was my stepmother, and it was
a knife that she held! A man was lying at her feet. Again Rayel stepped forward, and again
I heard the crayon grating on the wall. Then he stood aside. Great God! There were drops of
blood dripping from the knife now. Rayel sank down upon the floor and covered his eyes with
his hands. I stood there, dumb with fear and horror, looking first upon him and then upon the
picture.

The silence of the night was unbroken save by those slow footsteps in the street to which I
had listened before retiring. But suddenly I heard a low wailing cry in the room adjoining
ours. It so startled me that I came near dropping the lamp. Strange and weird it sounded, gradually
growing shriller and more terrible to hear! It was the voice of my stepmother. Was she dreaming?
And had Rayel seen the vision that affrighted her? Was that dagger pricking her brain? In a
moment the swelling cry broke into a sharp scream, such as might come from one exposed to sudden
peril, and ceased. Then the sound of a bell rang sharply through the house, followed by loud
knocking at the door and a man's shout.

"Open the door, I command you!" he said.

He must have heard that piercing cry. Rayel still lay motionless upon the floor. Was he asleep?
Why did he not rise? I began to feel numb. I seemed to have lost the power of motion. I could
hear some one rapping at our door, but I could not move.

"Kendric! Kendric! Kendric!" Was it my stepmother who was calling me? What a piteous, pleading
tone! "Let me speak to you, Kendric! For God's sake, let me tell you!" I was reeling: my strength
had all left me. Crash! went the lamp at my feet. There was a great flash of light, which dazzled
my eyes, and I fell heavily upon the floor.

I was in the open air when thought and feeling came back to me. My hands and face were paining
me as if they had been terribly burned. There were a number of men standing over a motionless
figure that lay beside me.

"The poor lad!" said one of the men "he's nearly roasted. See here how the clothes have been
burned away from his neck! Can't ye stop the blood? The mon'll die afore the amb'lance comes
ef we don't stop the blood. A brave mon he is, too. D'ye see 'im coming down the stairs with
th' other one on his back?"

Of whom were they talking? I struggled to my feet--I could feel no pain now--and bent over
that still form which had been lying beside me. Oh! it was the heaven-blessed face of Rayel,
now bleeding and scarred and ghastly. I raised his head. The hair fell away where my hand touched
it, and a groan escaped his lips. I could not speak nor weep nor utter any sound. A strange
calmness came over my spirit and I sat there motionless, bending over him I loved so well,
while the crowd of men looked on in silence. "After His own image made He man;" these words
came to my mind as I looked into that dear face. Then I prayed in silence--for him. Thank God!
his eyes were open now and his lips were moving. I bent lower until I could feel his breath
upon my cheek.

"Is it you, Kendric?" he whispered. "Did I save you from the fire? I cannot see you, but I
know you are here."

I heard his words distinctly, but I could not answer. The power of speech seemed to have left me.

"The fire awoke me," he continued, moaning. "We were lying on the floor. I called to you, but
you did not answer. Thank God! you are safe now."

Returning consciousness brought with it an increasing sense of his pain, and he began to struggle
and groan in dreadful agony. Suddenly, extending one of his blackened hands until it touched
my face, he shouted in a loud voice:

"Kendric! Kendric! help--help me!"

Then some men laid hold of me and lifted me up. I clung to Rayel with all my strength, but
could not resist them, and as I was borne away I knew that Rayel and I had parted forever.

CHAPTER XVII

After that midnight parting the first thing I can recall was the touch of a gentle hand upon
my face. When my eyes opened I saw Hester bending over me.

"You are at home now, Kendric," said she. Such a feeling of weakness came over me that I could
not speak. I thought a nail had been driven into my brain, but the tears that began rolling
down my cheeks and the moans that broke from my lips seemed to loosen it.

Many days passed before I was able to reflect upon this last tragic episode in my life or to
take any thought of the morrow. One evening I awoke from a deep sleep feeling a new interest
in life. There were people sitting in the room and talking in low tones.

"Has he asked for Rayel yet?" said one of them.

"Not yet," was the answer.

"Better not let him know about it yet. There's time enough. He'll be around soon."

I called to them and they came quickly to my bedside. There were Hester and Mr. Earl and his
good wife, all looking down upon me with smiling faces.

"You need not be afraid to tell me now. I know that Rayel is dead."

They made no answer.

"I know he is dead, but tell me how it happened," I said. "There is no danger; I am quite strong
now."

Mr. Earl took my hand and told me in a low, calm voice, all he knew of the tragedy. He only
knew, however, that the lamp had exploded and that Rayel had been horribly burned by the oil.

"I suppose," said he, "that the lamp was on a table near his bed when it exploded. In a moment
the whole room was afire, and you, no doubt, being asleep at the time, he lifted you up and
ran with you down the stairway and out of the open door. But in the meantime he had been horribly
burned, and he fell in a faint as soon as he reached the pavement. Strangely enough you were
unconscious for some moments, although you were not badly burned. Probably it was the smoke."

Then no one knows, thought I, what really did happen that night. The lamp must have fallen
almost directly upon Rayel's head, and the oil had no doubt saturated his hair and clothing.

"And the house?" I asked. "Is that--"

"In ashes," he replied.

Then every trace of that strange event, which no eye save mine had witnessed, was wiped out
forever. The hideous secret had better never be told.

"If I was not badly burned, tell me why I have been lying ill."

"Brain fever, my boy," said he. "Too much excitement, I presume--but you're out of danger now,
and will be on your feet again in a few days."

Fortunately the latter assurance was rightly spoken. The first day that brought me strength
enough to put on my clothes and walk about the house, Mr. Earl invited me into the library
to talk business. We were no sooner seated than he unlocked a drawer and handed me a document
to read.

It was a deed of all my father's real and personal property.

"They have both confessed," said he.

"Confessed what?" I asked, wondering if the secret of my father's death had come out.

"The conspiracy against your life. There were two accomplices--one Count de Montalle, formerly
a servant of Cobb, and now a convict in America, and the other a man named Fenlon, who is under
arrest. There is gloom to my story; and many of own circumstances are sordid enough; but throughout
I see why the follows that man and woman at least improve and dignify
their lot in this world.

Also Esther's story seems to me informed with a philosophy of his life. In spite of the gloom with
which Title. Hardy wraps the story of Tess, I do contend that Esther's fight is, from end to
end, the heroic. Many people believe Tess to be the finest of its author's achievements.


"That is strange, isn't it?" said I. "Who was the man?"

"A detective," said he, "whom I hired to watch the house that night. He heard some disturbance,
it seems, and, fearing mischief, he immediately forced the door open and ran pell-mell into
your cousin, noble fellow, who was then bringing you down-stairs. If he had been one moment
later the woman would have been burned to death, and we would never have got this deposition.
Cobb wouldn't have been the first to weaken, you may be sure of that. But after she had told
the whole story, why, there was no use in holding out. Badly burned? No, strange to say, she
was not badly burned, but frightened out of her wits. Peer deserts her and roams the world, when
he finds his theory of Self upset by one adventure after another
and at last reduced to absurdity in the madhouse to Cairo.

Where Peer is the outlaw she forsakes all and follows him at his hut in an forest.


"I have to tell you," he continued, "that your cousin left a will bequeathing to you his father's
house and a number of valuable paintings."

I turned away and burning tears of sorrow came to my eyes. It was indeed a sad inheritance--the
earthly part of his great riches--and of little moment to me. I could not bear to think or
speak of it then, and I begged my friend to hide the will from my sight until time might give
me strength to read it with composure.

One evening in early spring Hester and I were walking along the shore of the Mediterranean
at Marseilles. I had been traveling through southern Europe since my recovery, accompanied
by Mr. and Mrs. Earl. Hester had recently joined us in this ancient city of Provence. The sun
was sinking below the distant horizon of water, and his shafts, glancing from the western edge
of the sea, shot far into the immeasurable reaches above us. We stood in silence while the
great wall of night loomed into the zenith, and then fell westward through the luminous slope
of heaven. The broad terrace from which we viewed the scene was quite deserted.

"If it is a hopeless love I cherish, let me know it now, Hester," I said as we turned to go.
"I cannot wait any longer."

"You can wait half an hour longer, I am sure," she said, hurrying me along. "We will be at
home, then." 

"J. The k. S." Of "Joule. K. S.," whose second volume, Quo musa tendis? And as Cambridge, having
made Calverley a don, claims him just a poet; and the claim is now,
if the epithet be intended to mark the limitations imposed between
the Body on his achievement.

 Lest you may think that it was the fool's part, let me tell you that I am the man who
arrested the Count de Montalle."

"And the man who brought Fenlon to justice?" I asked.

"The same. He confessed within three hours after you were introduced to him."

          *    *      *    *      *     *   *

Every week my wife and I visit Rayel's grave and strew fresh flowers upon it. A tall shaft
of marble marks the spot where he lies at rest. His name is graven in the stone, and underneath
it are these words: "He was a man without selfishness or vanity."

                 THE END.

