Early in the morning of the 6th of August, as the breaking dawn was tinting the tops of the
Lebombo Mountains with its purple dye and the first rays of the rising sun shed its golden
rays over the sombre bushveldt, the commando under Commandants Moll and Schoeman were slowly
approaching the dreaded M'pisana's fort. When within a few hundred paces of it they left the
horses behind and slowly crept up to it in scattered order; for as none of us knew the arrangement
or construction of the place, it had been arranged to advance very cautiously and to charge
suddenly on the blowing of a whistle. 

"My mother, Walter - I swear to you, it dies no one so much as I" - she flew on the door: "My
mother come in, let my mother!"

This came in the mother and some relatives inside, it went to a general howl that the jailer brought
himself out of his version that he had to leave the room. The cruel hours approached. There was
talk of the town still in it, they would grace get, until the last moment, even as her eyes
were united, the people in this expectation, we could not understand it, do not hold that such
a lovable should perish Henkershaenden form below, and the preacher was unable to it a single Word
of consolation award - in vain! The laws were too strict, the case clearly, they was beheaded.

She
has until the last moment, the amiable, mild amusement in their faces
even in its entire position in the negligent sinking of her arms and
head; still maintained that characterized her character so well.

She stood there, such as one of the first female professors of Christianity, the humiliation
and torture for their faith looked forward confidently. She turned around often longingly,
as if their eyes under the dense cluster people seeking someone with anxiety. Everyone said
she was looking for her lover, and stood close to her, reassure them they still have in the past
Moments hear a name to express very indistinct, the fierce one Traenenausbruch was accompanied.
She held then a minute hand on his face, which they then, as beside himself, half-handed pass
out to the executioner because she was no longer on the Feet was obtained. He tied the eyes -
and the beautiful soul flew to heaven.

Two or three days was all in the city in dismay, there was talk in all societies nothing but the
beautiful Kindermoerderin.

They wrote poems and essays about this Incident: Zerbin went with all this around in a daze,
the usual fate abgewuerdigter Souls, when they come in extraordinary circumstances. If I were
writing a novel, it would I never dare to close my story with a suicide in order to confirm To
prevent counterfeiting, because after all this string is picked up by an expert hand been. As it
was, I must not remove from my instrument, and what a difference It is not all that under
a suicide, which, through the magic of Raphael's Imagination, was a beautiful act, and promoted
the greatest happiness of the lover, and one who is not, as the just result of a disgraceful
act, and more like a Punishment from heaven, than a false step was considered a lost passion! He
crawled under the weight of his guilt, and he alone of all the accusations be sensed his time relatives
dumb and sinnenlos expected him to slaughter. The following documents, which are in his Desk found,
However, some pity for him to make lively. We do among the characters A and B, according to conjecture
of the time in which they can be typed here . Indenting

"A. I come to you, my Marie - I'll provide me with thee before the same tribunal, and expect from
you my opinion.
 Another
section of this notorious corps met with a like fate about this time at Bremersdorp in Swaziland.
They did not there offer such a determined resistance, and the Ermelo burghers captured two
good Colt-Maxims and two loads of ammunition probably intended for Swaziland natives.

CHAPTER XLI.

AMBUSHING THE HUSSARS.

On August 10th, shortly after our arrival with the prisoners-of-war at Sabi, and while I was
still discussing with Lord Kitchener the incident related in the previous chapter, General
Muller sent word to me from Olifant's River, where I had left him with my men, that he had
been attacked by General W. Kitchener three days after I had left him. It appears that his
sentries were surprised and cut off from the commandos, these being divided into different camps.

The burghers who were farthest away, the Middelburg and Johannesburg men, had, contrary to
my instructions, pitched camp on the Blood River, near Rooikraal, and were suddenly and unexpectedly
attacked by the enemy at about two o'clock in the afternoon, whilst their horses were grazing
in the veldt. Some horses were caught in time and some burghers offered a little resistance,
firing at a short range, several men being killed on both sides. The confusion, however, was
indescribable, horses, cattle, burghers and soldiers being all mixed up together. A pom-pom,
together with its team of mules and harness, and most of the carts and saddles, were captured
by the enemy. You alone have the right to do.

As I write this to justify them from the eyes of the world. Our marriage was not a crime, although
it was inaugurated by any priest hand, but by genuine burning Kisses sealed, confirmed by
very nasty oaths. This chair, which we both located on the knees, this bed on which I am still
crying herumwaelze are Testament to this. I was the only reason that our connection is not publicly
confirmed was - my imaginary erudition, my pride were the only obstacles. I am flattered her I would bring
it to Berlin, and imagine my father, only to their wishes, to withdraw their requests in the
length.

On the third day General W. Kitchener had discovered our whereabouts, and our sentries gave
us warning that the enemy was approaching through the bushes, raising great clouds of dust.
While the waggons were being got ready the burghers marched out, and awaited the English in
a convenient spot between two kopjes. The latter rode on unsuspectingly two by two, and when
about 100 had been allowed to pass, our men rushed out, calling, "Hands up!" and, catching
hold of their horses' bridles, disarmed about 30 men. This caused an immediate panic, and most
of the Hussars fled (closely pursued by our burghers, who shot 10 or 12 of them). Her hands still wet with tears, with whom he had summoned them, the matter kept secret,
thought, looked, she understood no difficulty in this case, she entered on to play the beginning
of their role, and at her maid over a headache and shivering to complain. In the afternoon they had
made a plan to give her friend a visit, and then attacked, as if they suddenly from a burning
fever would be to go to bed lay.

But like the good little girl knew what she had promised! When she to her friend came, she found
she just realized in the clear up, because they had recited their rent, and a intended to take
another house. The enemy's losses were considerable, although one could
not estimate the exact number, as the dead were scattered over a large tract of ground and
hidden amongst the bushes, rendering it difficult to find them. Weeks afterwards, when we returned
over the same ground, we still found some bodies lying about the bush, and gave them decent burial. Imagine the delight of Mary before, when
she told him even the letter from Berlin of the post brought home, and the transition to desperation,
as they now heard from his mouth, that here the dew was torn. His father was, by one of the most
audacious thefts because he was himself and his old maid gagged, had been plundered, and "now"
in allerkuemmerlichsten deficiency, as he known for his usury, even when no one took pity.
 General Muller
repeatedly succeeded in tearing up the railway line and destroying trains with provisions,
whilst I had the good fortune of capturing a commissariat train, near Modelane, on the Delagoa
Bay line; but, as I could not remove the goods, I was forced to burn the whole lot. A train,
apparently with reinforcements, was also blown up, the engine and carriages going up in the
air with fine effect.

CHAPTER XLII.

I TALK WITH GENERAL BLOOD.

About the end of August, 1901, I met General Sir Bindon Blood at Lydenburg by appointment.
We had arranged to discuss several momentous questions there, as we made little progress by
correspondence. My
readers will see that we do not beautify our hero in the least. The noblest sentiments our soul often
show up more in the way, execute our designs, as in the draft themselves, which have to be selfish
even in the most excellent people, when I use the term intends to extend this word as far as it can
be extended. Perhaps the cause is in the nature of the human soul and its resolutions, which arise
when they are are grafted onto the tree of self-love, and only through time and application of
the circumstances their unselfishness obtained. They praise me, what you will, of virtue and wisdom;
Virtue is never planned, but have been difficult execution plans, they may by other be invented.
 He got a feed, which was unheard of, and it lasted
a half year, he left for his reading sessions, a new compendium of the philosophical Morality, grafted onto
natural and international law, print, and in all the scholarly papers was raised to the sky.
 At the entrance of the village a guard of honour had
been placed and received us with military honours. I could not understand the meaning of all
this fuss, especially as the streets through which we passed were lined with all sorts of spectators,
and to my great discomfort I found myself the chief object of this interest. Temperance and health of the body Humanities
and had his sense of better sex nor in all his explosive power obtained, and its moral principles
appeared to be wind, this fire more intense . To blow


