When the awful blows of the sea smite the rock, if it finds a place less hard than others,
it wears into it a slight depression, after half a hundred thousand strokes, more or less,
and ever after, as the years go by, it drives its wedges home in that place.  A shallow cave
results.  Then the waters converge on the sides of the cave and meet with awful force in the
middle.  Thus a tunnel is excavated, like a drift in a mine, each wave making the tremendous
charge and the reflowing surges bringing away all the detritus.  This tunnel may be driven
or excavated two hundred feet inland, under the shore.  At each inrush of the wave the air
is terribly condensed before it.  It seeks outlet.  And so it happens that the air is driven
up through some crack in the rock and the superincumbent earth, one or two hundred feet from
the shore, and a great hole appears in the ground from twenty to seventy feet deep.  Then the
water spouts fiercely up and returning carries back the earth and broken rock into the sea.

No. 3 of the illustrations here given represents such a great excavation one hundred feet back
from the shore.  It is one hundred and fifty feet long by ninety wide and over fifty feet deep.
All the material had been carried out to sea by the refluent wave.  On the natural bridge seen
in front the great crowd in Broadway, New York, might pass or a troop of cavalry could be maneuvered.
Through the arch a ship with masts thirty feet high might enter at high tide.  Through the
abutment of the arch where the afternoon sun pours its brightness the waves have cut other
arches not visible in the picture.  When the arches become too many or too wide the natural
bridge will fall and be carried out to sea like many another.

But what does the sea do with the harder parts of the cliff?  Its waves wear away the rock
on each side and leave one or more long fingers reaching out into the sea.  The wear and tear
on such a projection is immense.  A strong swimmer may play with the breakers away from the
cliff.  At exactly the right moment he may dive headlong through the pearly green Niagara that
has not yet fallen quite to his head and may sport in the comparatively quiet water beyond,
while the wild ruin falls with a sound of thunder on the beach.  But let him once be caught
and dashed against the rocks and there is no more life or wholeness of bones within him.

In the swirl of converging currents between two rocky projections, as the coarse sand and gravel
is surged around a few hundred thousand times, there is a great tendency to wear through the
wall of the projecting finger.  It is often done.  Illustration No. 4 shows at low tide such
a projection cut through.  Since the picture was taken the bridge has fallen, the detritus
been carted away by the waves, and the pier stands lonely in the sea.

No. 5 shows one bridge exceedingly frail and another more substantial nearer the famous Cliff
Drive.  I go to the frail one every year with anxiety lest I shall find it has been carried
away.  How I wish I could show my readers the delicate sculpture and carving further back,
nearer yet to the drive.  But note the various strata, the rocks worn to a point as even the
milder waves run over them; note the cracks that tell of the awful push and stress of the titanic
struggle.

Illustration No. 6 shows three such under-hewn arches.  The long projection of rock is so curved
as to prevent the arches being fully seen in any one view.  I have waded and swam through these
rocky vistas, and there, where any more than moderate waves would have mangled me against the
tusks of the cruel rocks, I have found little specimens of aquatic life by the millions, clinging
fast to the rocks that were home to them and protecting themselves by taking lime out of the
water and building such a solid wall of shell that no fierceness of the wildest storm could
work them harm.  All these seek their food from Him who feeds all life, and he heaves the ocean
up to their mouths that they may drink.

No. 7 shows what has been a quadruple arch, only one part of which is still standing.  Out
in the sea, lonely and by itself, appears a pier, scarcely emergent from the waves, which once
supported an arch parallel to the one now standing and also one at right angles to the shore.
The one now standing makes the fourth.  But the ever-working sea carves and carries away arch
and shore alike.  At some points a careful and even admiring observer sees little change for
years, but the remorseless tooth gnaws on unceasingly.

On the right near the point is seen a board sign.  It says here, as in many other places, "Danger."
Sometimes two converging waves meet at the land, rise unexpectedly, sweep over the point irresistibly,
and carry away anyone who stands there.  One large and two small shreds of skin now gone from
the palm of my left hand give proof of an experience there that did not result quite so disastrously.

The illustration facing page 188 is another example of an arch cut through the rocky barrier
of the shore.  But in this case the trend of the less hard rock was at such an angle to the
shore that the sea broke into the channel once more, and then the combined waves from the two
entrances forced the passage one hundred and forty paces inland.  It terminates in another
natural bridge and deep excavation beyond, which are not shown in the picture.

What becomes of this comminuted rock, cleft by wedges of water, scoured over by hundreds of
tons of sharp sand?  It is carried out by gentle undercurrents into the bay and ocean, and
laid down where winds never blow nor waves ever beat, as gently as dust falls through the summer
air.  It incloses fossils of the plant and animal life of to-day. There rest in nature's own
sepulcher the skeletons of sharks and whales of to-day and possibly of man.  Sometime, if the
depths become heights, as they have in a thousand places in the past, a fit intelligence may
read therein much of the present history of the world.

THE POWER OF VEGETABLE LIFE

I have a great variety of little masses of matter--some small as a pin's blunt point, and none
of them bigger than a pin's head.  They are smooth, glossy, hard, exceedingly beautiful under
the microscope, and clearly distinguishable one from another.  They have such intense individuality,
are so self-assertive, that by no process can those of one kind be made to look or act like
those of another.  These little masses of matter are centers of incredible power.  They are seeds.

Select two for examination, and, unfolding, one becomes grass--soft, succulent, a carpet for
dainty feet, a rest for weary eyes, part food, but mostly drink, for hungry beasts.  It exhausts
all its energy quickly.  Grass today is, and to-morrow is cut down and withered, ready for
the oven.

Try the other seed.  It is of the pin head size.  It is dark brown, hard-shelled, dry, of resinous
smell to nostrils sensitive as a bird's. The bird drops it in the soil, where the dews fall
and where the sun kisses the sleeping princesses into life.

Now the latent powers of that little center of force begin to play. They first open the hard
shell from the inside, then build out an arm white and tender as a nerve fiber, but which shall
become great and tough as an oak.  This arm shuns the light and goes down into the dark ground,
pushing aside the pebbles and earth.  Soon after the seed thrusts out of the same crevice another
arm that has an instinct to go upward to the light.  Neither of these arms is yet solid and
strong. They are beyond expression tender, delicate, and porous, but the one is to become great
roots that reach all over an acre, and the other one of California's big trees, thirty feet
in diameter and four hundred feet high.

How is it to be done?  By powers latent in the seed developing and expanding for a thousand
years.  What a power it must be!

First, it is a power of selection--might we not say discrimination? That little seed can never
by any power of persuasion or environment be made to produce grass or any other kind of a tree,
as manzanita, mango, banyan, catalpa, etc., but simply and only sequoia gigantea.

There are hundreds of shapes and kinds of leaves with names it gives one a headache to remember.
But this seed never makes a single mistake.  It produces millions of leaves, but every one
is awl-shaped--subulate.  Woods have many odors--sickening, aromatic, balsamic, medicinal.
We go to the other side of the world to bring the odor of sandal or camphor to our nostrils.
But amid so many odors our seed will make but one.  It is resinous, like some of those odors
the Lord enjoyed when they bathed with their delicious fragrance the cruel saw that cut their
substance, and atmosphered with new delights the one who destroyed their life.  The big tree,
with subtle chemistry no man can imitate, always makes its fragrance with unerring exactness.

There are thousands of seeds finished with a perfectness and beauty we are hardly acute enough
to discover.  The microscopist revels in the forms of the dainty scales of its armor and the
opalescent tints of its color.  The sunset is not more delicate and exquisite.  But the big
tree never makes but one kind of seed, and leaves no one of its thousands unfinished.

The same is true of bark, grain of wood, method of putting out limbs, outline of the mass,
reach of roots, and every other peculiarity.  It discriminates.

But how does it build itself?  Myriads of rootlets search the surrounding country for elements
it needs for making bark, wood, leaf, flower, and seed.  They often find what they want in
other organizations or other chemical compounds.  But with a power of analytical chemistry
they separate what they want and appropriate it to their majestic growths.  But how is material
conveyed from rootlet to veinlet of leaf hundreds of feet away?  The great tree is more full
of channels of communication than Venice or Stockholm is of canals, and it is along these watery
ways of commerce that the material is conveyed. These channels are a succession of cells that
act like locks, set for the perpendicular elevation of the freight.  The tiny boats run day
and night in the season, and though it is dark within, and though there are a thousand piers,
no freight that starts underground for a leaf is ever landed on the way for bark or woody fiber.
Freight never goes astray, nor are express packages miscarried.  What starts for bark, leaf,
fiber, seed, is deposited as bark, leaf, fiber, seed, and nothing else. There are hundreds
of miles of canals, but every boat knows where to land its unmarked freight.  Curious as is
this work underground, that in the upper air is more so.  The tree builds most of its solid
substance from the mobile and tenuous air.  Trees are largely condensed air.  By the magic
chemistry of the sunshine and vegetable life the tree breathes through its myriad leaves and
extracts carbon to be built into wood.  Had we the same power to extract fuel from the air
we need not dig for coal.

In doing this work the power of life in the tree has to overcome many other kinds of force.
There is the power of cohesion.  How it holds the particles of stone or iron together!  You
can hardly break its force with a great sledge.  But the power of life in the tree, or even
grass, must master the power of cohesion and take out of the disintegrating rock what it wants.
So it must overcome the power of chemical affinity in water and air.  The substances it wants
are in other combinations, the power of which must be overcome.

Gravitation is a great power, but the thousand tons of this tree's vast weight must be lifted
and sustained in defiance of it.  So for a thousand years gravitation sees the tree rise higher
and higher, till the great lesson is taught that it is a weakling compared with the power of
life.  There is not a place where one can put his finger that there are not a dozen forces
in full play, every one of which is plastic, elastic, and ready to yield to any force that
is higher.  So the tree stands, not mere lumber and cordwood, or an obstacle to be gotten rid
of by fire, but an embodiment of life unexhausted for a thousand years.  The fairy-fingered
breeze plays through its myriad harp strings.  It makes wide miles of air aromatic.  Animal
life feeds on the quintessence of life in its seeds.  But most of all it is an object lesson
that power triumphs over lesser power, and that the highest power has dominion over all other
power.

The great power of vegetable life was shown under circumstances that seemed the least favorable
in the following experiment:

In the Agricultural College at Amherst, Mass., a squash of the yellow Chili variety was put
in harness in 1874 to see how much it would lift by its power of growth.

It was not an oak or mahogany tree, but a soft, pulpy, squashy squash that one could poke his
finger into, nourished through a soft, succulent vine that one could mash between finger and
thumb.  A good idea of the harness is given by the illustration.  The squash was confined in
an open harness of iron and wood, and the amount lifted was indicated by weights on the lever
over the top.  There were, including seventy nodal roots, more than eighty thousand feet of
roots and rootlets.  These roots increased one thousand feet in twenty-four hours.  They were
afforded every advantage by being grown in a hot bed. On August 21 it lifted sixty pounds.
By September 30 it lifted a ton. On October 24 it carried over two tons.  The squash grew gnarled
like an oak, and its substance was almost as compact as mahogany.  Its inner cavity was very
small, but it perfectly elaborated its seeds, as usual.

The lever to indicate the weight had to be changed for stronger ones from time to time.  More
weights were sought.  They scurried through the town and got an anvil and pieces of railroad
iron and hung them at varying distances, as shown in the cut.  By the 31st of October it was
carrying a weight of five thousand pounds.  Then owing to defects of the new contrivance the
rind was broken through without showing what might have been done under better conditions.
Every particle of the squash had to be added and find itself elbow room under this enormous
pressure.  But life will assert itself.

No wonder that the Lord, seeking some form of speech to represent his power in human souls,
says, "I am the vine, ye are the branches."  The tremendous life of infinite strength surges
up through the vine and out into all branches that are really vitally attached.  No wonder
that much fruit is expected, and that one who knew most of this imparted power said, "I can
do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me."

SPIRITUAL DYNAMICS*

*Reprinted from The Study.

Will God indeed dwell upon the earth? asked Solomon.  Will God indeed work with man on the
earth? asks the pushing, working spirit of to-day. Has man a right to expect a special lending
of the infinite power to help out his human endeavors?  Does God put special forces to open
some doors, close others, influence some men to come to his help, hinder others, bring to bear
influences benign, restrain those malign, and invigorate a man's own powers so that his arm
has the strength of ten, because his heart is pure enough for God to work in it and through
it? If this is so, in what fields, under what conditions, to what extent, and in accordance
with what laws may we expect aid?

First, it is evident that there is power not ourselves.  We did not make this world.  We did
not put into it even the lowest force, gravitation.  It is more than our minds can compass
to measure its power.  We have no arithmetic to tell its power on every mote in the sunbeam,
or flower, or grain-head bowing toward the earth, tree brought down with a crash, or avalanche
with thunder.  Much less can we measure the power that holds the earth to the sun spite of
its measureless centrifugal force.  We did not make the next highest force, cohesion. The particles
of rock and iron cohere with so great an energy that gravitation cannot overcome it.  But it
is not by our energy.  We did not make the next highest force, chemical affinity, that masters
both gravitation and cohesion.  Water, the result of chemical affinity between oxygen and hydrogen,
can be rent into its constituent elements with nothing less than a stream of lightning.  We
did not make the next highest force, vegetative life.  That masters gravitation, and lifts
up the tree in spite of it; masters cohesion--the tree's rootlets tear asunder the particles
of stone; masters chemical affinity--it takes the oxygen from air and water.  We did not create
that force, measureless to our minds.  We say it must have come out of some omnipotence greater
than all of them.  The conclusion of all minds is, there is a power not ourselves.

It is unthinkable that these forces before mentioned should have originated themselves.  It
is equally so that they could maintain and continue themselves.  There must be some continual
upholding by a word of power.

It is equally plain that there is intelligence, thought, and plan behind these forces.  They
are not blind Samsons grinding in a prison-house, and liable at any moment to bring down in
utter ruin every pillar of the universe on which they can put their hands.

If intelligent and planful, there must be personality.  We may as well call it by the name
by which it is universally known, God.

Now does this intelligent and powerful personality know our plans and lend his powers to the
accomplishment of our purposes?  It is better to put it the other way.  Mr. Lincoln taught
us the truer statement when one said to him, in the awful anxiety of the war, "I think God
is on our side;" he answered, "My great concern is to know if we are on God's side."  So our
question is better thus: Does this intelligent, powerful personality accept and use our energy
in the accomplishment of his plans?

That will depend on what he wants done.  If he only wants mountains lifted, he can put the
shoulder of an earthquake under the strata of a continent and tilt them up edgewise, or toss
up a hundred miles of strata and let them come down the other side up.  If he wants mountains
carried hence and cast into the sea, he can bring rivers to carry for thousands of years numberless
tons.  If he wants worlds held in rhythmic relations to their sun, he can take gravitation.
Man is of no use; he cannot reach so far.

But if this being has anything to do that he cannot do, he will gladly welcome man's aid. 
Has he?  Yes.  Obviously he wants things done he cannot do alone.  Worlds are dead.  Trees
do not think.  Morning stars may sing together, but they cannot love.  None of them have character.
None of them have conscious responsiveness to the full tides of power and love that flush the
universe.  None of them are permanent, or worth keeping forever.  They are only scaffolding.
He wants something greater than he can make; something as great as God and man and angels together
can make.  He wants not mere matter acted upon from without, but intelligences active in themselves;
wants not mere miles of granite, but hearts responsive to love, and character that is sturdier
than granite, more enduring than the hills that seem to be everlasting, and of so great a price
that a whole world is of less value than a single soul, and of such permanence that it shall
flourish in immortal youth when worlds, short-lived in comparison, shall have passed away.
God can make worlds in plenty, but he wants something so much better that they shall be mere
parade-grounds for the training of his armies.

Are there proofs that God's forces are cooperating with ours?  Many. Gravitation holds us to
the earth.  We do not drift, all sides up successively, in space or chaos.  We never want a
breath but there are oceans of it rushing to answer our hunger for it.

But especially do we undertake all our more definite efforts with a full expectation of the
aid of the forces without us.  Man takes to agriculture with a relish that indicates that the
soil and he are akin. He expects all its energies to cooperate with him.  He plants the grain
or seed expecting that all its vegetative forces will cowork with his plans.  Every energy
of earth, air, water, and the far-off sun work into his plans as if they had no other end in
all their being.  If a man wants a house, he expects the solidity of the rock, all the adaptations
of wood that has been growing for a century, expects the beauty of the fir tree, the pine,
and the box to come together to beautify the place of his dwelling.

There are other forces into which man can put his scepter of power and hand of mastery.  They
all work for and with him.  Does he want his burdens carried?  The river will convey the Indian
on a log or the armaments of the greatest nations.  The wind fits itself into the shoulder
of his sail on the sea, and steam does more work on the land than all the human race together.
Does he want swiftness?  The lightning comes and goes between the ends of the earth saying,
"Here am I."  Obviously all these kinds of forces are always on hand to work into man's plans.

Is not our whole question settled?  If these fundamental forces, these oceans of air and energy,
forces so great that man cannot measure them, so delicate and fine that man does not discover
them in thousands of years, are all waiting and palpitating to rush into the service of man
to advance his plans, and hint of plans larger than he ever dreamed, until he grows great by
handling these ineffable factors, how can it be otherwise than that the energies, thoughts,
and loves back of these forces, and out of which they come, and of which they are the visible
signs and exponents, are working together with man?  Then, in all probability, nay in all certainty,
all other forces, whether they be thrones or dominions, principalities or powers, things present
or things to come, will also lend all their energies to the help of man. God does not aid in
the lowest and leave us to ourselves in the highest.  He does not feed the body and let the
soul famish, does not help us to the meat that perishes and let us starve for the bread of
eternal life.

Scripture passages, literally thousands in number, proclaim God's control of the regular operations
of nature, his sovereignty over birth, life, death, disease, afflictions, and prosperity, over
what we call accident, his execution of righteous retributions, bringing of deliverance, setting
up thrones, and casting down princes.  He upholds all things by the direct exercise of his
power.  "The uniformities of nature are his ordinary method of working; its irregularities
his method upon occasional condition; its interferences his method under the pressure of a
higher law."  There can be no general providence which is not special, no care for the whole
which does not include care for all the parts, no provided safety for the head which does not
number all the hairs.  The Old Testament doctrine of a special and minute providence over the
chosen nation is expanded by Christ's loving teaching and ministrations into an equal care
for the personal individual (Matt. vii, 11; xviii, 19; Heb. iv, 16).  The cold glacial period
of human fear that poured its ice floe over the mind of man, making him feel like an orphaned
race in a godless world, has retired before the gentle beams of the Sun of Righteousness, and
the winter is past, the flowers appear on the earth, the time of the singing of birds and hearts
has commenced.

It is everywhere recognized that the great outcome of a man's life is not the title to a thousand
acres.  He is soon dispossessed.  It is not all the bonds and money he can hold.  A dead man's
hands are empty.  It is not reputation that the winds blow away.  But it is character that
he acquires and carries with him.  He has a fidelity to principle that is like Abdiel's.  He
is faithful among the faithless.  He has allegiance to right that the lure of all the kingdoms
of the earth cannot swerve for a moment.  He counts soul so much above the body that no fiery
furnaces, heated seven times hotter than they are wont, sway him for a moment from adherence
to the interests of soul as against even the existence of the body.

Now, how has such an eminence of character been attained?  Not altogether by individual evolution.
Ancestral tendencies, parental example, the great force of strong, eternal principles, the
moral muscle acquired in the gymnasium of temptation, and confessedly and especially a spiritual
force vouchsafed from without, have wrought out this greatest result of heaven and earth. 
Of some men you expect nothing but goodness and greatness.  They would belie all the tendencies
of their blood to be otherwise than good.  Some are constantly trained under the mighty influences
of great principles that sway men as much as gravitation sways the worlds.  What could be expected
of the men of '76 when the air was electric with patriotism? What could be expected of men
whose childhood was filled with the sacrifices of men who made themselves pilgrims and strangers
over the earth, from England to Holland and thence over the drear and inhospitable sea to America,
for the sake of liberty?  What could be expected of men whose whole ancestry was cut off by
the slaughter following the revocation of the Edict of Nantes, and they themselves exiled for
liberty to worship God?  What can be expected of men who have been tried in the furnace of
temptation till they are pure gold? Nay, more, what can be expected of men who have in these
temptations been strengthened out of God?  Besides the strength of development by the resistance
of evil, they have found that God made a way of escape, that he strengthened, them and that
they were thus by supernal power able to bear it.  Nay, rather, what may not be expected of
such men?

But we will not forget that this great outcome is precisely the plan of God for every man's
life, and that when man works he finds that there are forces outside of him thoroughly cooperative
with him.  He starts a rock down the mountain side, but gravitation reaches out ready fingers
and hurls it a thousand times faster and faster.  He launches his ship on the sea and the wind
and steam carry it thousands of miles.  He speaks his quiet breath into the ear of the phone
and electricity carries it in every tone and inflection of personal quality a thousand miles.
He vows, and works for purity and greatness of personal character, and a thousand gravitations
of love, a thousand great winds of Pentecost, a thousand vital principles on which all greatness
hangs, a thousand influences of other men, and especially a thousand personal aids of a present
God, cooperate with his plans and works.

Of course every man who believes in a new type so high that good birth, wealth, culture, education,
and broad opportunity cannot attain it believes in the divine co-operation to that end.  It
must be born of the Spirit.  God sends forth his Spirit into our hearts crying, Abba, Father!
It pleases the Father himself to reveal his Son in us.

Not only is this cooperation true in regard to the beginning of this higher life, but especially
so in regard to the development and perfection of that life into the stature of perfect manhood
in Christ Jesus.  By continuous effort to lead into all truth, by intensity of endeavor that
can only be represented by groanings that cannot be worded in human speech, the perfection
of saints is sought.

And in the final glorification of those saints every man will say nothing of his own efforts,
but all the praise will be unto him who hath redeemed us unto God, and washed us in his blood.

To what extent, then, may we expect God will lend his forces to work out our plans?  First,
in so far as those forces have to do with the maturing and perfecting of our character they
become his plans.  No energy will be withheld.  All our plans should be such.  The end in character
may often be attained as well by failure of our plans as by success.  God has to choose the
poor in this world's things, rich in faith, to do his great work.  And he has to make "the
best laid schemes o' mice and men gang aft a-gley" to get the desired outcome of character.
He is then working with, not against, us.  He would rather have any star for his crown of glory
than tons of perishable gold.

But outside of our plans and work for ourselves what cooperation may we expect in our plans
and work for others?

Every preacher knows that for spiritual work in saving others the word of the Lord is true,
"Without me ye can do nothing."  There must be an outpouring of the Spirit or there is no Pentecost.
Over against that settled conviction is the thrice-blessed command and assurance of the Master,
"Go preach my Gospel; and lo, I am with you alway" (blessed iteration), "unto the end of the
world."  That has not yet come.

But there are other enterprises men must push--mines to be dug, railroads to be surveyed and
built, slaves to be emancipated, farms to be cultivated, mischiefs framed by a law to be averted,
charities to be exercised, schools to be founded, and generally a living to be gotten. To what
extent may we expect divine aid?

First, all these things are his purposes and plans.  But since it is necessary for our development
that we do our level best, he will not do what we can.  We can plant and water, but God only
can give the increase.  Even the fable maker says that a teamster, whose wagon was stuck in
the mud, seeing Jupiter Omnipotens riding by on the chariot of the clouds, dropped on his knees
and implored his help.  "Get up, O lazy one!" said Jupiter; "clear away the mud, put your shoulder
to the wheel, and whip up your horses."  We may call on God to open the rock in the dry and
thirsty land where no water is, but not to lift our teacups.  It is no use to ask God for a
special shower when deep plowing is all that is needed.  It is no use to ask God to build churches,
send missionaries, endow schools, and convert the world, till we have done our best.

But when we have done our best what may we expect?  All things.  They shall work together for
good to those who love God enough to do their best for him in any plane of work.  One could
preach fifty sermons on the great works done by men, obviously too great for man's accomplishment.
Time would fail me to tell of Moses, Gideon, Paul, Luther, Wesley, Wilberforce, William of
Orange, Washington, John Brown, Abe Lincoln, and thousands more of whom this world was not
worthy, who, undeniably by divine aid, wrought righteousness.  One of the great sins of our
age is that men do not see God immanent in all things.  We have found so many ways of his working
that we call laws, so many segments of his power, that we have forgotten him who worketh all
things after the counsel of his own will.  A sustainer is as necessary as a creator. There
are diversities of operations, but it is the same God who worketh all in all.  The next great
service to be done by human philosophy is to bring back God in human thought into his own world.
Since these things are so, what are the conditions under which we may work the works of God
by his power?

First, they must be his works, not ours as opposed to his, but ours as included in his.  All
our works may be wrought in God, if we do his works, follow his plans, and are aided by his
strength.

Second, they must be attempted with the right motive of glorifying God. Christ is the pattern.
He came not to do his own will, but the will of him who sent him.  And he did always the things
that pleased him.  In our fervid desires for the accomplishment of some great thing we should
be as willing it should be accomplished by another as by ourselves. The personal pride is often
a fly in the sweet-smelling savor.  God would rather have a given work not done, or done by
another, than to have one of his dear ones puffed up with sinful pride.  Great Saul must often
be removed and the work be left undone, or be done by some humble David.

  "Inaudible voices call us, and we go;
  Invisible hands restrain us, and we stay;
  Forces, unfelt by our dull senses, sway
  Our wavering wills, and hedge us in the way
  We call our own, because we do not know.

  "Are we, then, slaves of ignorant circumstance?
  Nay, God forbid!
  God holds the world, not blind, unreasoning chance!"

How shall we secure the cooperative power?  There is power of every kind everywhere in plenty.
All the Niagaras and Mississippis have run to waste since they began to thunder and flow. 
Greater power is in the wind everywhere.  One can rake up enough electricity to turn all the
wheels of a great city whenever he chooses to start his rake.  The sky is full of Pentecosts.
Power enough, but how shall we belt on?  By fasting, prayer, and by willing to do the will
of God.  We have so much haste that we do not tarry at Jerusalem for fullness of power.  Moses
was forty years in the wilderness: Daniel fasted and prayed for one and twenty days.  We are
told to pray without ceasing, and that there are kinds of devils that go not out except at
the command of those who fast and pray.

  "More things are wrought by prayer than
    This world dreams of."

The Bible is a record of achievements impossible to man.  They are achievements of leaderships,
emancipations, governments, getting money for building God's houses, making strong the weak,
waxing valiant in fight, and turning the world upside down.  The trouble with many of our modern
saints is that they seek for purity only instead of power, ecstasy instead of excellence, self-satisfaction
in a garden of spices instead of a baptism that straightens them out in a garden of agony.
They are seekers of spiritual joys instead of good governments, cities well policed and sewered,
with every street safe for the feet of innocence.  The next revelation of new possibilities
of grace that will break out of the old Word will be that of power.

How will this divine aid manifest itself?  In the giving of wisdom for our plans and their
execution.  God will not help in any foolish plans. He wants no St. Peter's built in a village
of six hundred people, no temple, except on a Moriah to which a whole nation goes up.  Due
proportion is a law of all his creations.  The disciples planned not only to begin at Jerusalem,
but to stay there.  Their plans were wrong, and they had to be driven out by persecutions and
martyrdoms (Acts viii, 4).  But Africa, Europe, and Asia eagerly received the light which Jerusalem
resisted.  Some ministers to-day stay by their fine Jerusalems when the kitchens of the surrounding
country wait to welcome them.  The Spirit suffered not Paul to go into Bithynia, but sent him
to Macedonia.  Had he then persisted in going to Asia his work would have been in vain.

We may expect wisdom in the choice of the human agents we select.  Half a general's success
lies in his choice of lieutenants.  No class leader should be appointed nor steward nominated
till after prayer for divine guidance.  God has more efficient men for his Church than we know
of. He is thinking of Paul when we see only Matthias (Acts i, 26).  When Paul had to depart
asunder from Barnabas God sent him Silas, the fellow-singer in the dungeon, and Timothy, who
was dearer to him than any other man.

We may expect opposition to be diminished or thwarted.  Let Hezekiah spread every letter of
Rab-shakeh before the Lord and pray (2 Kings xix, 14).  The answer will be, "I have heard"
(v. 20).  Let the answer to every slander that Gashmu repeateth among the heathen be, "O Lord,
strengthen my hands" (Neh. vi, 9); "My God, think thou upon Tobiah and Sanballat according
to these their works" (v. 14).  Then all the heathen and enemies will "perceive that this work
was wrought of our God" (v. l6).  "When a man's ways please the Lord, he maketh even his enemies
to be at peace with him."  The purpose of the manifestation of the Son of God was "that he
might destroy the works of the devil" (1 John iii, 8).

Lastly, we may expect actual help.  These plans are all dear to God. He wishes them all accomplished.
They have been wisely made. Opposition has been diminished.  It only remains that our hearts
be open to guidance and strengthening.  Moses was sure I AM had sent him. Elijah had the very
words to be uttered to Ahab put into his mouth. Nehemiah told the people that for building
a city "the joy of the Lord is your strength."  God strengthened the right hand of Cyrus. 
The three Hebrew children and Daniel knew that God was able to deliver them from fire and lions.
And the great promise of the Lord to be with his disciples to the end is not so much a promise
for comfort as for the accomplishment of their mission.  Paul said, "I can do all things through
Christ which strengtheneth me."  And all great doers for God, in all ages, have gladly testified
that they have been girded for their work by the Almighty.

The designed outcome of this paper is that every reader should get a fresh revelation of the
immanency of God in the kingdom of nature and grace; that the reader is more intimately related
to him and his plans than is gravitation; that there are laws as imperative, exact, and sure
to yield results in the mental and spiritual realms as in the material; that he is a part of
God's agencies, and that all of God's forces are a part of his; that he may sing with new meaning,

  "We for whose sakes all nature stands
  And stars their courses move;"

that in the burning vividness of this new conception each man may boldly undertake things for
God--conversions, purifications, missionary enlargements, business enterprises--that he knows
are too great for himself; that he may find new helps for spiritual victories as great as this
age has found for material triumphs in steam and electricity; and that in all things man may
be uplifted and God thereby glorified.

How shall it be done?

