"The others are mobilizing. We--issue denials. We deny everything which might mean mobilization
or look like preparation for that step. [Shrewsbury: 42. jpg] the Valley Railway affords a very interesting
approach before being the old salopian capital, to bringing by the
traveller its striking features, its singular situation, and its most
pleasing aspect.

SHREWSBURY

.


"Can we remain indifferent in our hour of dread need, when the gleaming promise of a bright
future appears in the distance, if the inability to resolve and dare has made Berlin its headquarters.
All efforts are for 'peace' with honour. But in politics one must be able to recognize when
it is impossible to continue at peace; when peace is at the cost of our friends, our own security,
and the future of European peace. In view of this one must be able to act."[11]

[Footnote 11: Deutsche Zeitung, July 31st.]

The internal tactics of the German Government had been successful all along the line. Insignificant
Serbia had dropped out of the reckoning. Russia must be humbled. The German nation, believing
itself entirely peaceful, and convinced that its leaders had done everything possible for peace,
now demanded in no unmistakable voice--action! mobilization! war!

Announcements of mobilization on all sides (Switzerland, Holland, Belgium) doubtless added
to the popular belief that Germany desired above all things--peace. Still, in spite of the
warlike spirit of the nation and the burning desire to settle off Russia once and for all,
there was an undercurrent of overstrained nervousness. A Dresden paper of July 30th relates
that between the hours of two and four on the preceding afternoon a Berlin newspaper had been
asked thirty-seven different questions on the telephone relating to rumours of assassinations,
mobilization, etc.

The process of inspiring national confidence, however, had by no means suffered through neglect.
France was represented as being unprepared and, together with England, desiring only peace.
As early as July 27th in the Tägliche Rundschau the public had been told that Italy, had officially
declared herself ready and willing to stand by the Central Powers as an ally.

Even Japan was used to stiffen Teutonic courage. The Deutscher Kurier told its readers in a
telegram from New York (?) that Americans fully expected Japan to attack Russia in the back
and Japanese ministers were holding conferences all day and night. According to the Weser Zeitung,
August 1st, Japan was arming for war, while the München-Augsburger Zeitung published details
of an alliance concluded between Austria and Japan in Vienna on the afternoon of July 30th.
According to this source Japan had pledged herself to support Austria in case the latter was
attacked by Russia, while Austria declared her absolute disinterestedness in the Far East.
On August 1st the Berliner Tageblatt repeated this legend; but advised its readers to exercise
reserve in accepting it.

"During the evening (August 2nd) the news spread in the streets of Berlin that Japan was mobilizing
and had already declared war on Russia. Huge crowds flocked to the Japanese Embassy and spent
hours in cheering Japan, Germany, and the Triple Alliance."[12]

[Footnote 12: Der Montag, August 3rd.]

Meanwhile Russia, having failed to get her simple rights recognized and knowing that Germany
had made extensive military preparations, decided on July 31st to mobilize her entire forces.
The German Ambassador immediately informed his Government of this step, and the Kaiser placed
Germany under martial law. On the same day the Emperor proceeded from Potsdam to the Imperial
Palace in Berlin.

CHAPTER III

THE DOGS LET LOOSE

"Just after three o'clock a company, at war strength, from the 'Alexander' regiment marched
under the command of a young lieutenant, down Unter den Linden. Drums were beaten; a huge crowd
listened in solemn silence as the lieutenant read the articles placing the German Empire under
martial law. The crowd was fully alive to the awful sternness of this historic moment.

"After the proclamation was ended a deep silence ensued, then a loud voice cried: 'The Kaiser!
Hurrah!' Three times the shout rang to the heavens. 'The German army! Hurrah!' Once more the
caps were swung three times. The boy-like lieutenant, with head erect, sword in hand, commands:
'Attention! Slope arms!' The regular beat of marching men follows as they proceed in the direction
of the Imperial Residence. Berlin is under martial law!"[13]

[Footnote 13: Deutscher Kurier, July 31st.]

"During the afternoon enormous masses of people collected in the streets and open spaces of
Berlin. Unter den Linden, in expectation of the Kaiser's return, was overfilled with excited,
waiting throngs. Just before a quarter to four a great movement was seen from the direction
of the Brandenburger Tor, which spread like a wave along the street. Everybody rushed on to
the road, and the police were pushed aside. Then the suppressed excitement of the last few
days gave vent to a hurricane of hurrahs as the populace greeted their monarch. The Emperor
was wearing the uniform of the Garde-Kürassiere; beside him sat the Empress. ADVERTISEMENTS.

In 1 bulk, crown 8vo. dismally, handsomely overshadowed in cloth, and gilt, price. 6d.; or in
cloth, and not gilt (Second to Edition), price 5s.

6d., although there the Mr; an Stations of sketches.

Descriptive and other, of Course of the Severn, incorporate Ones with its topographical, industrial,
and geological Features, with Tourists at its historical and legendary Events. By Garde on JOHN RANDALL,
That f. Night. S. "this activity will be an guide-book for the sightseer,
and is modestly so bound as to be worthy countenance at a place on
the drawing-antechamber, although the price is beautifully artistic uniform
at 7s. 6d only. Valley. Randall sketches landscapes are with fixed taste,
lingers here and there for anecdote, drops in the wayside hotel, and
picks up pleasant chit-chat on angling and pictural subjects.
 Every station,
great and small, was crowded with anxious, expectant crowds; the smaller stations full of spectators
and relatives bidding farewell to departing soldiers, and the greater ones crowded with fleeing
tourists.

On the platforms at Frankfort and Cologne many tons of luggage were stacked in huge piles.
It would be interesting to know what became of them.[15] Few Germans could have slept that
night; the anxiety was too great. The whole railway line was guarded by patrols, many of whom
were in civilian attire. Here and there a "field-grey" uniform was visible. On many stations
armed guards awaited the arrival of reservists and gave them conduct to the barracks.

[Footnote 15: The Königsberger Hartungsche Zeitung contained a paragraph on August 7th to the
effect that 120,000 trunks and portmanteaux had been collected on Berlin stations alone.]

The Kaiser spoke words of cheer from a window of the royal palace on Friday evening, after
which the restless crowd thronged to the official residence of the Chancellor to receive as
a watchword the words which Prince Friedrich Karl had spoken on a memorable occasion to his
Brandenburger troops: "Let your hearts beat to God, and your blows on the enemy."

An ultimatum was despatched to St. Petersburg and presented at midnight to the Russian Government.
The latter was requested to cancel all mobilization orders within twelve hours, or war would
ensue. Simultaneously the French Government was asked what its attitude would be in case of
a Russo-German war. In these measures it is safe to conclude that the German nation was heart
and soul behind the Government, otherwise the tremendous outbreak of national enthusiasm throughout
the length and breadth of the land would be entirely inexplicable.

