"Well, I have what I call a 'window-school.'  It is too cold now; but in warm weather I am
wheeled out on my little balcony, and the Ruggleses climb up and walk along our garden fence,
and sit down on the roof of our carriage-house.  That brings them quite near, and I read to
them and tell them stories; On Thanksgiving Day they came up for a few minutes, it was quite
warm at eleven o'clock, and we told each other what we had to be thankful for; but they gave
such queer answers that Papa had to run away for fear of laughing; and I couldn't understand
them very well.  Susan was thankful for 'TRUNKS,' of all things in the world; Cornelius, for
'horse cars;' Kitty, for 'pork steak;' while Clem, who is very quiet, brightened up when I
came to him, and said he was thankful for 'HIS LAME PUPPY.'  Wasn't that pretty?"

"It might teach some of us a lesson, mightn't it, little girl?"

"That's what Mama said.  Now I'm going to give this whole Christmas to the Ruggleses; and,
Uncle Jack, I earned part of the money myself."

"You, my bird; how?"

"Well, you see, it could not be my own, own Christmas if Papa gave me all the money, and I
thought to really keep Christ's birthday I ought to do something of my very own; and so I talked
with Mama.  Of course she thought of something lovely; she always does; Mama's head is just
brimming over with lovely thoughts, and all I have to do is ask, and out pops the very one
I want.  This thought was, to let her write down, just as I told her, a description of how
a little girl lived in her own room three years, and what she did to amuse herself; and we
sent it to a magazine and got twenty-five dollars for it.  Just think!"

"Well, well," cried Uncle Jack, "my little girl a real author!  And what are you going to do
with this wonderful 'own' money of yours?"

"I shall give the nine Ruggleses a grand Christmas dinner here in this very room--that will
be Papa's contribution, and afterwards a beautiful Christmas tree, fairly blooming with presents--that
will be my part; for I have another way of adding to my twenty-five dollars, so that I can
buy everything I like.  I should like it very much if you would sit at the head of the table,
Uncle Jack, for nobody could ever be frightened of you, you dearest, dearest, dearest thing
that ever was! Mama is going to help us, but Papa and the boys are going to eat together down
stairs for fear of making the little Ruggleses shy; and after we've had a merry time with the
tree we can open my window and all listen together to the music at the evening church-service,
if it comes before the children go.  I have written a letter to the organist, and asked him
if I might have the two songs I like best.  Will you see if it is all right?"

                         "BIRDS NEST, Dec. 21st, 188-.

DEAR MR. WILKIE,--

I am the little sick girl who lives next door to the church, and, as I seldom go out, the music
on practice days and Sundays is one of my greatest pleasures.

I want to know if you can let the boys sing 'Carol, brothers, carol,' on Christmas night, and
if the one who sings 'My ain countree' so beautifully may please sing that too.  I think it
is the loveliest song in the world, but it always makes me cry; doesn't it you?

If it isn't too much trouble, I hope they can sing them both quite early, as after ten o'clock
I may be asleep.

--Yours respectfully,

                                        CAROL BIRD.

P.S.--The reason I like 'Carol, brothers, carol,' is because the choir-boys sang it eleven
years ago, the morning I was born, and put it into Mama's head to call me Carol.  She didn't
remember then that my other name would be Bird, because she was half asleep, and couldn't think
of but one thing at a time.  Donald says if I had been born on the Fourth of July they would
have named me 'Independence,' or if on the twenty-second of February, 'Georgina,' or even 'Cherry,'
like Cherry in Martin Chuzzlewit; but I like my own name and birthday best.

--Yours truly,

                                        CAROL BIRD."

Uncle Jack thought the letter quite right, and did not even smile at her telling the organist
so many family items.  The days flew by, as they always fly in holiday time, and it was Christmas
eve before anybody knew it.  The family festival was quiet and very pleasant, but quite swallowed
up in the grander preparations for next day.  Carol and Elfrida, her pretty German nurse, had
ransacked books, and introduced so many plans, and plays, and customs and merry-makings from
Germany, and Holland, and England and a dozen other places, that you would scarcely have known
how or where you were keeping Christmas.  The dog and the cat had enjoyed their celebration
under Carol's direction. Each had a tiny table with a lighted candle in the center, and a bit
of Bologna sausage placed very near it, and everybody laughed till the tears stood in their
eyes to see Villikins and Dinah struggle to nibble the sausages, and at the same time evade
the candle flame.  Villikins barked, and sniffed, and howled in impatience, and after many
vain attempts succeeded in dragging off the prize, though he singed his nose in doing it. 
Dinah, meanwhile, watched him placidly, her delicate nostrils quivering with expectation, and,
after all excitement had subsided, walked with dignity to the table, her beautiful gray satin
tail sweeping behind her, and, calmly putting up one velvet paw, drew the sausage gently down,
and walked out of the room without "turning a hair," so to speak.  Elfrida had scattered handfuls
of seeds over the snow in the garden, that the wild birds might have a comfortable breakfast
next morning, and had stuffed bundles of dried grasses in the fireplaces, so that the reindeer
of Santa Claus could refresh themselves after their long gallops across country.  This was
really only done for fun, but it pleased Carol.

And when, after dinner, the whole family had gone to church to see the Christmas decorations,
Carol limped wearily out on her little crutches, and, with Elfrida's help, placed all the family
boots in a row in the upper hall.  That was to keep the dear ones from quarreling all through
the year.  There were Papa's stout top boots; Mama's pretty buttoned shoes next; then Uncle
Jack's, Donald's, Paul's and Hugh's; and at the end of the line her own little white worsted
slippers.  Last, and sweetest of all, like the little children in Austria, she put a lighted
candle in her window to guide the dear Christ-child, lest he should stumble in the dark night
as he passed up the deserted street.  This done, she dropped into bed, a rather tired, but
very happy Christmas fairy.

V.

SOME OTHER BIRDS ARE TAUGHT TO FLY.

Before the earliest Ruggles could wake and toot his five-cent tin horn, Mrs. Ruggles was up
and stirring about the house, for it was a gala day in the family.  Gala day!  I should think
so!  Were not her nine "childern" invited to a dinner-party at the great house, and weren't
they going to sit down free and equal with the mightiest in the land? She had been preparing
for this grand occasion ever since the receipt of the invitation, which, by the way, had been
speedily enshrined in an old photograph frame and hung under the looking-glass in the most
prominent place in the kitchen, where it stared the occasional visitor directly in the eye,
and made him pale with envy:

                         "BIRDS' NEST, Dec. 17th, 188-.

DEAR MRS. RUGGLES,--

I am going to have a dinner-party on Christmas day, and would like to have all your children
come.  I want them every one, please, from Sarah Maud to Baby Larry.  Mama says dinner will
be at half-past five, and the Christmas tree at seven; so you may expect them home at nine
o'clock.  Wishing you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year, I am, yours truly,

                                             CAROL BIRD."

Breakfast was on the table promptly at seven o'clock, and there was very little of it, too;
for it was an excellent day for short rations, though Mrs. Ruggles heaved a sigh as she reflected
that even the boys, with their India-rubber stomachs, would be just as hungry the day after
the dinner-party as if they had never had any at all.

As soon as the scanty meal was over, she announced the plan of the campaign: "Now Susan, you
an' Kitty wash up the dishes; an' Peter, can't you spread up the beds, so't I can git ter cuttin'
out Larry's new suit?  I ain't satisfied with his close, an' I thought in the night of a way
to make him a dress out of my old plaid shawl--kind o' Scotch style, yer know.  You other boys
clear out from under foot!  Clem, you and Con hop into bed with Larry while I wash yer underflannins;
'twont take long to dry 'em.  Sarah Maud, I think 'twould be perfeckly han'som if you ripped
them brass buttons off yer uncle's policeman's coat an' sewed 'em in a row up the front o'
yer green skirt.  Susan, you must iron out yours an' Kitty's apurns; an' there, I came mighty
near forgettin' Peory's stockin's!  I counted the whole lot last night when I was washin' of
'em, an' there ain't but nineteen anyhow yer fix 'em, an' no nine pairs mates nohow; an' I
ain't goin' ter have my childern wear odd stockin's to a dinner-comp'ny, brought up as I was!
Eily, can't you run out and ask Mis' Cullen ter lend me a pair o' stockin's for Peory, an'
tell her if she will, Peory'll give Jim half her candy when she gets home.  Won't yer, Peory?"

Peoria was young and greedy, and thought the remedy so much worse than the disease that she
set up a deafening howl at the projected bargain--a howl so rebellious and so out of all season
that her mother started in her direction with flashing eye and uplifted hand; but she let it
fall suddenly, saying, "No, I won't lick ye Christmas day, if yer drive me crazy; but speak
up smart, now, 'n say whether yer'd ruther give Tim Cullen half yer candy or go bare-legged
ter the party?" The matter being put so plainly, Peoria collected her faculties, dried her
tears and chose the lesser evil, Clem having hastened the decision by an affectionate wink,
that meant he'd go halves with her on his candy.

"That's a lady;" cried her mother.  "Now, you young ones that ain't doin' nothin', play all
yer want ter before noontime, for after ye git through eatin' at twelve o'clock me 'n Sarah
Maud's goin' ter give yer such a washin' an' combin' an' dressin' as yer never had before an'
never will agin, an' then I'm goin' to set yer down an' give yer two solid hours trainin' in
manners; an' 'twon't be no foolin' neither."

"All we've got ter do 's go eat!" grumbled Peter.

"Well, that's enough," responded his mother; "there's more 'n one way of eatin', let me tell
yer, an' you've got a heap ter learn about it, Peter Ruggles.  Lord sakes, I wish you childern
could see the way I was fetched up to eat--never took a meal o' vittles in the kitchen before
I married Ruggles; but yer can't keep up that style with nine young ones 'n yer Pa always off
ter sea."

The big Ruggleses worked so well, and the little Ruggleses kept from "under foot" so successfully,
that by one o'clock nine complete toilets were laid out in solemn grandeur on the beds.  I
say, "complete;" but I do not know whether they would be called so in the best society.  The
law of compensation had been well applied; he that had necktie had no cuffs; she that had sash
had no handkerchief, and vice versa; but they all had boots and a certain amount of clothing,
such as it was, the outside layer being in every case quite above criticism.

"Now, Sarah Maud," said Mrs. Ruggles, her face shining with excitement, "everything is red
up an' we can begin.  I've got a boiler 'n a kettle 'n a pot o' hot water.  Peter, you go into
the back bedroom, an' I'll take Susan, Kitty, Peory an' Cornelius; an' Sarah Maud, you take
Clem, 'n Eily, 'n Larry, one to a time, an' git as fur as you can with 'em, an' then I'll finish
'em off while you do yerself."

Sarah Maud couldn't have scrubbed with any more decision and force if she had been doing floors,
and the little Ruggleses bore it bravely, not from natural heroism, but for the joy that was
set before them. Not being satisfied, however, with the "tone" of their complexions, she wound
up operations by applying a little Bristol brick from the knife-board, which served as the
proverbial "last straw," from under which the little Ruggleses issued rather red and raw and
out of temper. When the clock struck three they were all clothed, and most of them in their
right minds, ready for those last touches that always take the most time.  Kitty's red hair
was curled in thirty-four ringlets, Sarah Maud's was braided in one pig-tail, and Susan's and
Eily's in two braids apiece, while Peoria's resisted all advances in the shape of hair oils
and stuck out straight on all sides, like that of the Circassian girl of the circus--so Clem
said; and he was sent into the bed-room for it too, from whence he was dragged out forgivingly
by Peoria herself, five minutes later. Then--exciting moment--came linen collars for some and
neckties and bows for others, and Eureka! the Ruggleses were dressed, and Solomon in all his
glory was not arrayed like one of these!  A row of seats was formed directly through the middle
of the kitchen.  There were not quite chairs enough for ten, since the family had rarely all
wanted to sit down at once, somebody always being out, or in bed, but the wood box and the
coal-hod finished out the line nicely.  The children took their places according to age, Sarah
Maud at the head and Larry on the coal-hod, and Mrs. Ruggles seated herself in front, surveying
them proudly as she wiped the sweat of honest toil from her brow.

"Well," she exclaimed, "if I do say so as shouldn't, I never see a cleaner, more stylish mess
o' childern in my life!  I do wish Ruggles could look at ye for a minute!  Now, I've of 'en
told ye what kind of a family the McGrills was.  I've got some reason to be proud; your uncle
is on the po-lice force o' New York city; you can take up the newspaper most any day an' see
his name printed right out--James McGrill, and I can't have my childern fetched up common,
like some folks.  When they go out they've got to have close, and learn ter act decent!  Now,
I want ter see how yer goin' to behave when yer git there to-night. Let's start in at the beginnin'
'n act out the whole business.  Pile into the bed-room, there, every last one of ye, an' show
me how yer goin' ter go in't the parlor.  This'll be the parlor 'n I'll be Mis' Bird."  The
youngsters hustled into the next room in high glee, and Mrs. Ruggles drew herself up in her
chair with an infinitely haughty and purse-proud expression that much better suited a descendant
of the McGrills than modest Mrs. Bird.  The bed-room was small, and there presently ensued
such a clatter that you would have thought a herd of wild cattle had broken loose; the door
opened, and they straggled in, all the little ones giggling, with Sarah Maud at the head, looking
as if she had been caught in the act of stealing sheep; while Larry, being last in line, seemed
to think the door a sort of gate of heaven which would be shut in his face if he didn't get
there in time; accordingly he struggled ahead of his elders and disgraced himself by tumbling
in head foremost.

Mrs. Ruggles looked severe.  "There, I knew yer'd do it in some sech fool-way,--try it agin
'n if Larry can't come in on two legs he can stay ter home!"

