When the lady was gone, Mr Rubb sat himself again down on the sofa, and there he remained for
the next half-hour. He talked about the business of the firm, saying how it would now certainly
be improved; and he talked about Tom Mackenzie's family, saying what a grand thing it was for
Susanna to be thus taken in hand by her aunt; and he asked a question or two about Miss Baker,
and then a question or two about Mr Maguire, during which questions he learned that Mr Maguire
was not as yet a married man; and from Mr Maguire he got on to the Stumfolds, and learned somewhat
of the rites and ceremonies of the Stumfoldian faith. In this way he prolonged his visit till
Miss Mackenzie began to feel that he ought to take his leave.

Miss Baker had gone at once to Miss Todd, and had told that lady that Miss Mackenzie would
join her tea-party. She had also told how Mr Rubb, of the firm of Rubb and Mackenzie, was at
this moment in Miss Mackenzie's drawing-room.

"I'll ask him to come, too," said Miss Todd. Then Miss Baker had hesitated, and had looked grave.

"What's the matter?" said Miss Todd.

"I'm not quite sure you'll like him," said Miss Baker.

"Probably not," said Miss Todd; "I don't like half the people I meet, but that's no reason
I shouldn't ask him."

"But he is--that is, he is not exactly--"

"What is he, and what is he not, exactly?" asked Miss Todd.

"Why, he is a tradesman, you know," said Miss Baker.

"There's no harm that I know of in that," said Miss Todd. "My uncle that left me my money was
a tradesman."

"No," said Miss Baker, energetically; "he was a merchant in Liverpool."

"You'll find it very hard to define the difference, my dear," said Miss Todd. "At any rate
I'll ask the man to come;--that is, if it won't offend you."

"It won't in the least offend me," said Miss Baker.

So a note was at once written and sent in to Miss Mackenzie, in which she was asked to bring
Mr Rubb with her on that evening. When the note reached Miss Mackenzie, Mr Rubb was still with her.

Of course she communicated to him the invitation. She wished that it had not been sent; she
wished that he would not accept it,--though on that head she had no doubt; but she had not
sufficient presence of mind to keep the matter to herself and say nothing about it. Of course
he was only too glad to drink tea with Miss Todd. Miss Mackenzie attempted some slight manoeuvre
to induce Mr Rubb to go direct to Miss Todd's house; but he was not such an ass as that; he
knew his advantage, and kept it, insisting on his privilege of coming there, to Miss Mackenzie's
room, and escorting her. He would have to escort Miss Baker also; and things, as he thought,
were looking well with him. At last he rose to go, but he made good use of the privilege of
parting. He held Miss Mackenzie's hand, and pressed it.

"You mustn't be angry," he said, "if I tell you that you are the best friend I have in the world."

"You have better friends than me," she said, "and older friends."

"Yes; older friends; but none,--not one, who has done for me so much as you have; and certainly
none for whom I have so great a regard. May God bless you, Miss Mackenzie!"

"May God bless you, too, Mr Rubb!"

What else could she say? When his civility took so decorous a shape, she could not bear to
be less civil than he had been, or less decorous. And yet it seemed to her that in bidding
God bless him with that warm pressure of the hand, she had allowed to escape from her an appearance
of affection which she had not intended to exhibit.

"Thank you; thank you," said he; and then at last he went.

She seated herself slowly in her own chair near the window,--the chair in which she was accustomed
to sit for many solitary hours, and asked herself what it all meant. Was she allowing herself
to fall in love with Mr Rubb, and if so, was it well that it should be so? This would be bringing
to the sternest proof of reality her philosophical theory on social life. It was all very well
for her to hold a bold opinion in discussions with Miss Baker as to a "man being a man for
a' that," even though he might not be a gentleman; but was she prepared to go the length of
preferring such a man to all the world? Was she ready to go down among the Rubbs, for now and
ever, and give up the society of such women as Miss Baker? She knew that it was necessary that
she should come to some resolve on the matter, as Mr Rubb's purpose was becoming too clear
to her. When an unmarried gentleman of forty tells an unmarried lady of thirty-six that she
is the dearest friend he has in the world, he must surely intend that they shall, neither of
them, remain unmarried any longer. Then she thought also of her cousin, John Ball; and some
vague shadow of thought passed across her mind also in respect of the Rev. Mr Maguire.

CHAPTER XI

Miss Todd Entertains Some Friends at Tea

I believe that a desire to get married is the natural state of a woman at the age of--say from
twenty-five to thirty-five, and I think also that it is good for the world in general that
it should be so. I am now speaking, not of the female population at large, but of women whose
position in the world does not subject them to the necessity of earning their bread by the
labour of their hands. There is, I know, a feeling abroad among women that this desire is one
of which it is expedient that they should become ashamed; that it will be well for them to
alter their natures in this respect, and learn to take delight in the single state. Many of
the most worthy women of the day are now teaching this doctrine, and are intent on showing
by precept and practice that an unmarried woman may have as sure a hold on the world, and a
position within it as ascertained, as may an unmarried man. But I confess to an opinion that
human nature will be found to be too strong for them. Their school of philosophy may be graced
by a few zealous students,--by students who will be subject to the personal influence of their
great masters,--but it will not be successful in the outer world. The truth in the matter is
too clear. A woman's life is not perfect or whole till she has added herself to a husband.

Nor is a man's life perfect or whole till he has added to himself a wife; but the deficiency
with the man, though perhaps more injurious to him than its counterpart is to the woman, does
not, to the outer eye, so manifestly unfit him for his business in the world. Nor does the
deficiency make itself known to him so early in life, and therefore it occasions less of regret,--less
of regret, though probably more of misery. It is infinitely for his advantage that he should
be tempted to take to himself a wife; and, therefore, for his sake if not for her own, the
philosophic preacher of single blessedness should break up her class-rooms, and bid her pupils
go and do as their mothers did before them.

They may as well give up their ineffectual efforts, and know that nature is too strong for
them. The desire is there; and any desire which has to be repressed with an effort, will not
have itself repressed unless it be in itself wrong. But this desire, though by no means wrong,
is generally accompanied by something of a feeling of shame. It is not often acknowledged by
the woman to herself, and very rarely acknowledged in simple plainness to another. Miss Mackenzie
could not by any means bring herself to own it, and yet it was there strong within her bosom.
A man situated in outer matters as she was situated, possessed of good means, hampered by no
outer demands, would have declared to himself clearly that it would be well for him to marry.
But he would probably be content to wait a while and would, unless in love, feel the delay
to be a luxury. But Miss Mackenzie could not confess as much, even to herself,--could not let
herself know that she thought as much; but yet she desired to be married, and dreaded delay.
She desired to be married, although she was troubled by some half-formed idea that it would
be wicked. Who was she, that she should be allowed to be in love? Was she not an old maid by
prescription, and, as it were, by the force of ordained circumstances? Had it not been made
very clear to her when she was young that she had no right to fall in love, even with Harry
Handcock? And although in certain moments of ecstasy, as when she kissed herself in the glass,
she almost taught herself to think that feminine charms and feminine privileges had not been
all denied to her, such was not her permanent opinion of herself. She despised herself. Why,
she knew not; and probably did not know that she did so. But, in truth, she despised herself,
thinking herself to be too mean for a man's love.

She had been asked to marry him by her cousin Mr Ball, and she had almost yielded. But had
she married him it would not have been because she thought herself good enough to be loved
by him, but because she held herself to be so insignificant that she had no right to ask for
love. She would have taken him because she could have been of use, and because she would have
felt that she had no right to demand any other purpose in the world. She would have done this,
had she not been deterred by the rude offer of other advantages which had with so much ill
judgment been made to her by her aunt.

Now, here was a lover who was not old and careworn, who was personally agreeable to her, with
whom something of the customary romance of the world might be possible. Should she take him?
She knew well that there were drawbacks. Her perceptions had not missed to notice the man's
imperfections, his vulgarities, his false promises, his little pushing ways. But why was she
to expect him to be perfect, seeing, as she so plainly did, her own imperfections? As for her
money, of course he wanted her money. So had Mr Ball wanted her money. What man on earth could
have wished to marry her unless she had had money? It was thus that she thought of herself.
And he had robbed her! But that she had forgiven; and, having forgiven it, was too generous
to count it for anything. But, nevertheless, she was ambitious. Might there not be a better,
even than Mr Rubb?

Mr Maguire squinted horribly; so horribly that the form and face of the man hardly left any
memory of themselves except the memory of the squint. His dark hair, his one perfect eye, his
good figure, his expressive mouth, were all lost in that dreadful perversion of vision. It
was a misfortune so great as to justify him in demanding that he should be judged by different
laws than those which are used as to the conduct of the world at large. In getting a wife he
might surely use his tongue with more freedom than another man, seeing that his eye was so
much against him. If he were somewhat romantic in his talk, or even more than romantic, who
could find fault with him? And if he used his clerical vocation to cover the terrors of that
distorted pupil, can any woman say that he should be therefore condemned? Miss Mackenzie could
not forget his eye, but she thought that she had almost brought herself to forgive it. And,
moreover, he was a gentleman, not only by Act of Parliament, but in outward manners. Were she
to become Mrs Maguire, Miss Baker would certainly come to her house, and it might be given
to her to rival Mrs Stumfold--in running which race she would be weighted by no Mr Peters.

It is true that Mr Maguire had never asked her to marry him, but she believed that he would
ask her if she gave him any encouragement. Now it was to come to pass, by a wonderful arrangement
of circumstances, that she was to meet these two gentlemen together. It might well be, that
on this very occasion, she must choose whether it should be either or neither.

Mr Rubb came, and she looked anxiously at his dress. He had on bright yellow kid gloves, primrose
he would have called them, but, if there be such things as yellow gloves, they were yellow;
and she wished that she had the courage to ask him to take them off. This was beyond her, and
there he sat, with his gloves almost as conspicuous as Mr Maguire's eye. Should she, however,
ever become Mrs Rubb, she would not find the gloves to be there permanently; whereas the eye
would remain. But then the gloves were the fault of the one man, whereas the eye was simply
the misfortune of the other. And Mr Rubb's hair was very full of perfumed grease, and sat on
each side of his head in a conscious arrangement of waviness that was detestable. As she looked
at Mr Rubb in all the brightness of his evening costume, she began to think that she had better
not. At last Miss Baker came, and they started off together. Miss Mackenzie saw that Miss Baker
eyed the man, and she blushed. When they got down upon the doorstep, Samuel Rubb, junior, absolutely
offered an arm simultaneously to each lady! At that moment Miss Mackenzie hated him in spite
of her special theory.

"Thank you," said Miss Baker, declining the arm; "it is only a step."

Miss Mackenzie declined it also.

"Oh, of course," said Mr Rubb. "If it's only next door it does not signify."

Miss Todd welcomed them cordially, gloves and all. "My dear," she said to Miss Baker, "I haven't
seen you for twenty years. Miss Mackenzie, this is very kind of you. I hope we sha'n't do you
any harm, as we are not going to be wicked to-night."

Miss Mackenzie did not dare to say that she would have preferred to be wicked, but that is
what she would have said if she had dared.

"Mr Rubb, I'm very happy to see you," continued Miss Todd, accepting her guest's hand, glove
and all. "I hope they haven't made you believe that you are going to have any dancing, for,
if so, they have hoaxed you shamefully." Then she introduced them to Mr and Mrs Wilkinson.

Mr Wilkinson was a plain-looking clergyman, with a very pretty wife. "Adela," Miss Todd said
to Mrs Wilkinson, "you used to dance, but that's all done with now, I suppose."

"I never danced much," said the clergyman's wife, "but have certainly given it up now, partly
because I have no one to dance with."

"Here's Mr Rubb quite ready. He'll dance with you, I'll be bound, if that's all."

Mr Rubb became very red, and Miss Mackenzie, when she next took courage to look at him, saw
that the gloves had disappeared.

There came also a Mr and Mrs Fuzzybell, and immediately afterwards Mr Maguire, whereupon Miss
Todd declared her party to be complete.

"Mrs Fuzzybell, my dear, no cards!" said Miss Todd, quite out loud, with a tragic-comic expression
in her face that was irresistible. "Mr Fuzzybell, no cards!" Mrs Fuzzybell said that she was
delighted to hear it. Mr Fuzzybell said that it did not signify. Miss Baker stole a glance
at Mr Maguire, and shook in her shoes. Mr Maguire tried to look as though he had not heard it.

"Do you play cards much here?" asked Mr Rubb.

"A great deal too much, Sir," said Miss Todd, shaking her head.

"Have you many Dissenters in your parish, Mr Wilkinson?" asked Mr Maguire.

"A good many," said Mr Wilkinson.

"But no Papists?" suggested Mr Maguire.

"No, we have no Roman Catholics."

"That is such a blessing!" said Mr Maguire, turning his eyes up to Heaven in a very frightful
manner. But he had succeeded for the present in putting down Miss Todd and her cards.

They were now summoned round the tea-table,--a genuine tea-table at which it was expected that
they should eat and drink. Miss Mackenzie was seated next to Mr Maguire on one side of the
table, while Mr Rubb sat on the other between Miss Todd and Miss Baker. While they were yet
taking their seats, and before the operations of the banquet had commenced, Susanna entered
the room. She also had been specially invited, but she had not returned from school in time
to accompany her aunt. The young lady had to walk round the room to shake hands with everybody,
and when she came to Mr Rubb, was received with much affectionate urgency. He turned round
in his chair and was loud in his praises. "Miss Mackenzie," said he, speaking across the table,
"I shall have to report in Gower Street that Miss Susanna has become quite the lady." From
that moment Mr Rubb had an enemy close to the object of his affections, who was always fighting
a battle against him.

Susanna had hardly gained her seat, before Mr Maguire seized an opportunity which he saw might
soon be gone, and sprang to his legs. "Miss Todd," said he, "may I be permitted to ask a blessing?"

"Oh, certainly," said Miss Todd; "but I thought one only did that at dinner."

Mr Maguire, however, was not the man to sit down without improving the occasion.

"And why not for tea also?" said he. "Are they not gifts alike?"

"Very much alike," said Miss Todd, "and so is a cake at a pastry-cook's. But we don't say grace
over our buns."

"We do, in silence," said Mr Maguire, still standing; "and therefore we ought to have it out
loud here."

"I don't see the argument; but you're very welcome."

"Thank you," said Mr Maguire; and then he said his grace. He said it with much poetic emphasis,
and Miss Mackenzie, who liked any little additional excitement, thought that Miss Todd had
been wrong.

"You've a deal of society here, no doubt," said Mr Rubb to Miss Baker, while Miss Todd was
dispensing her tea.

"I suppose it's much the same as other places," said Miss Baker. "Those who know many people
can go out constantly if they like it."

"And it's so easy to get to know people," said Mr Rubb. "That's what makes me like these sort
of places so much. There's no stiffness and formality, and all that kind of thing. Now in London,
you don't know your next neighbour, though you and he have lived there for ten years."

"Nor here either, unless chance brings you together."

"Ah; but there is none of that horrid decorum here," said Mr Rubb. "There's nothing I hate
like decorum. It prevents people knowing each other, and being jolly and happy together. Now,
the French know more about society than any people, and I'm told they have none of it."

"I'm sure I can't say," said Miss Baker.

"It's given up to them that they've got rid of it altogether," said Mr Rubb.

"Who have got rid of what?" asked Miss Todd, who saw that her friend was rather dismayed by
the tenor of Mr Rubb's conversation.

"The French have got rid of decorum," said Mr Rubb.

"Altogether, I believe," said Miss Todd.

"Of course they have. It's given up to them that they have. They're the people that know how
to live!"

"You'd better go and live among them, if that's your way of thinking," said Miss Todd.

"I would at once, only for the business," said Mr Rubb. "If there's anything I hate, it's decorum.
How pleasant it was for me to be asked in to take tea here in this social way!"

"But I hope decorum would not have forbidden that," said Miss Todd.

"I rather think it would though, in London."

"Where you're known, you mean?" asked Miss Todd.

"I don't know that that makes any difference; but people don't do that sort of thing. Do they,
Miss Mackenzie? You've lived in London most of your life, and you ought to know."

Miss Mackenzie did not answer the appeal that was made to her. She was watching Mr Rubb narrowly,
and knew that he was making a fool of himself. She could perceive also that Miss Todd would
not spare him. She could forgive Mr Rubb for being a fool. She could forgive him for not knowing
the meaning of words, for being vulgar and assuming; but she could hardly bring herself to
forgive him in that he did so as her friend, and as the guest whom she had brought thither.
She did not declare to herself that she would have nothing more to do with him, because he
was an ass; but she almost did come to this conclusion, lest he should make her appear to be
an ass also.

"What is the gentleman's name?" asked Mr Maguire, who, under the protection of the urn, was
able to whisper into Miss Mackenzie's ear.

"Rubb," said she.

"Oh, Rubb; and he comes from London?"

"He is my brother's partner in business," said Miss Mackenzie.

"Oh, indeed. A very worthy man, no doubt. Is he staying with--with you, Miss Mackenzie?"

Then Miss Mackenzie had to explain that Mr Rubb was not staying with her,--that he had come
down about business, and that he was staying at some inn.

"An excellent man of business; I'm sure," said Mr Maguire. "By-the-bye, Miss Mackenzie, if
it be not improper to ask, have you any share in the business?"

Miss Mackenzie explained that she had no share in the business; and then blundered on, saying
how Mr Rubb had come down to Littlebath about money transactions between her and her brother.

"Oh, indeed," said Mr Maguire; and before he had done, he knew very well that Mr Rubb had borrowed
money of Miss Mackenzie.

"Now, Mrs Fuzzybell, what are we to do?" said Miss Todd, as soon as the tea-things were gone.

"We shall do very well," said Mrs Fuzzybell; "we'll have a little conversation."

"If we could all banish decorum, like Mr Rubb, and amuse ourselves, wouldn't it be nice? I
quite agree with you, Mr Rubb; decorum is a great bore; it prevents our playing cards to-night."

"As for cards, I never play cards myself," said Mr Rubb.

"Then, when I throw decorum overboard, it sha'n't be in company with you, Mr Rubb."

"We were always taught to think that cards were objectionable."

"You were told they were the devil's books, I suppose," said Miss Todd.

"Mother always objected to have them in the house," said Mr Rubb.

"Your mother was quite right," said Mr Maguire; "and I hope that you will never forget or neglect
your parent's precepts. I'm not meaning to judge you, Miss Todd--"

"But that's just what you are meaning to do, Mr Maguire."

"Not at all; very far from it. We've all got our wickednesses and imperfections."

"No, no, not you, Mr Maguire. Mrs Fuzzybell, you don't think that Mr Maguire has any wickednesses
and imperfections?"

"I'm sure I don't know," said Mrs Fuzzybell, tossing her head.

"Miss Todd," said Mr Maguire, "when I look into my own heart, I see well how black it is. It
is full of iniquity; it is a grievous sore that is ever running, and will not be purified."

"Gracious me, how unpleasant!" said Miss Todd.

"I trust that there is no one here who has not a sense of her own wickedness."

"Or of his," said Miss Todd.

"Or of his," and Mr Maguire looked very hard at Mr Fuzzybell. Mr Fuzzybell was a quiet, tame
old gentleman, who followed his wife's heels about wherever she went; but even he, when attacked
in this way, became very fierce, and looked back at Mr Maguire quite as severely as Mr Maguire
looked at him.

"Or of his," continued Mr Maguire; "and therefore far be it from me to think hardly of the
amusements of other people. But when this gentleman tells me that his excellent parent warned
him against the fascination of cards, I cannot but ask him to remember those precepts to his
dying bed."

"I won't say what I may do later in life," said Mr Rubb.

"When he becomes like you and me, Mrs Fuzzybell," said Miss Todd.

"When one does get older," said Mr Rubb.

"And has succeeded in throwing off all decorum," said Miss Todd.

"How can you say such things?" asked Miss Baker, who was shocked by the tenor of the conversation.

"It isn't I, my dear; it's Mr Rubb and Mr Maguire, between them. One says he has thrown off
all decorum and the other declares himself to be a mass of iniquity. What are two poor old
ladies like you and I to do in such company?"

Miss Mackenzie, when she heard Mr Maguire declare himself to be a running sore, was even more
angry with him than with Mr Rubb. He, at any rate, should have known better. After all, was
not Mr Ball better than either of them, though his head was bald and his face worn with that
solemn, sad look of care which always pervaded him?

In the course of the evening she found herself seated apart from the general company, with
Mr Maguire beside her. The eye that did not squint was towards her, and he made an effort to
be agreeable to her that was not altogether ineffectual.

"Does not society sometimes make you very sad?" he said.

Society had made her sad to-night, and she answered him in the affirmative.

"It seems that people are so little desirous to make other people happy," she replied.

"It was just that idea that was passing through my own mind. Men and women are anxious to give
you the best they have, but it is in order that you may admire their wealth or their taste;
and they strive to be witty, amusing, and sarcastic! but that, again, is for the éclat they
are to gain. How few really struggle to make those around them comfortable!"

"It comes, I suppose, from people having such different tastes," said Miss Mackenzie, who,
on looking round the room, thought that the people assembled there were peculiarly ill-assorted.

"As for happiness," continued Mr Maguire, "that is not to be looked for from society. They
who expect their social hours to be happy hours will be grievously disappointed."

"Are you not happy at Mrs Stumfold's?"

"At Mrs Stumfold's? Yes;--sometimes, that is; but even there I always seem to want something.
Miss Mackenzie, has it never occurred to you that the one thing necessary in this life, the
one thing--beyond a hope for the next, you know, the one thing is--ah, Miss Mackenzie, what is it?"

"Perhaps you mean a competence," said Miss Mackenzie.

"I mean some one to love," said Mr Maguire.

As he spoke he looked with all the poetic vigour of his better eye full into Miss Mackenzie's
face, and Miss Mackenzie, who then could see nothing of the other eye, felt the effect of the
glance somewhat as he intended that she should feel it. When a lady who is thinking about getting
married is asked by a gentleman who is frequently in her thoughts whether she does not want
some one to love, it is natural that she should presume that he means to be particular; and
it is natural also that she should be in some sort gratified by that particularity. Miss Mackenzie
was, I think, gratified, but she did not express any such feeling.

"Is not that your idea also?" said he,--"some one to love; is not that the great desideratum
here below!" And the tone in which he repeated the last words was by no means ineffective.

"I hope everybody has that," said she.

"I fear not; not anyone to love with a perfect love. Who does Miss Todd love?"

"Miss Baker."

"Does she? And yet they live apart, and rarely see each other. They think differently on all
subjects. That is not the love of which I am speaking. And you, Miss Mackenzie, are you sure
that you love anyone with that perfect all-trusting, love?"

"I love my niece Susanna best," said she.

"Your niece, Susanna! She is a sweet child, a sweet girl; she has everything to make those
love her who know her; but--"

"You don't think anything amiss of Susanna, Mr Maguire?"

"Nothing, nothing; Heaven forbid, dear child! And I think so highly of you for your generosity
in adopting her."

"I could not do less than take one of them, Mr Maguire."

"But I meant a different kind of love from that. Do you feel that your regard for your niece
is sufficient to fill your heart?"

"It makes me very comfortable."

"Does it? Ah! me; I wish I could make myself comfortable."

"I should have thought, seeing you so much in Mrs Stumfold's house--"

"I have the greatest veneration for that woman, Miss Mackenzie! I have sometimes thought that
of all the human beings I have ever met, she is the most perfect; she is human, and therefore
a sinner, but her sins never meet my eyes."

Miss Mackenzie, who did not herself regard Mrs Stumfold as being so much better than her neighbours,
could not receive this with much rapture.

"But," continued Mr Maguire, "she is as cold--as cold--as cold as ice."

As the lady in question was another man's wife, this did not seem to Miss Mackenzie to be of
much consequence to Mr Maguire, but she allowed him to go on.

"Stumfold I don't think minds it; he is of that joyous disposition that all things work to
good for him. Even when she's most obdurate in her sternness to him--"

"Law! Mr Maguire, I did not think she was ever stern to him."

"But she is, very hard. Even then I don't think he minds it much. But, Miss Mackenzie, that
kind of companion would not do for me at all. I think a woman should be soft and soothing,
like a dove."

She did not stop to think whether doves are soothing, but she felt that the language was pretty.

Just at this moment she was summoned by Miss Baker, and looking up she perceived that Mr and
Mrs Fuzzybell were already leaving the room.

"I don't know why you need disturb Miss Mackenzie," said Miss Todd, "she has only got to go
next door, and she seems very happy just now."

"I would sooner go with Miss Baker," said Miss Mackenzie.

"Mr Maguire would see you home," suggested Miss Todd.

But Miss Mackenzie of course went with Miss Baker, and Mr Rubb accompanied them.

"Good-night, Mr Rubb," said Miss Todd; "and don't make very bad reports of us in London."

"Oh! no; indeed I won't."

"For though we do play cards, we still stick to decorum, as you must have observed to-night."

At Miss Mackenzie's door there was an almost overpowering amount of affectionate farewells.
Mr Maguire was there as well as Mr Rubb, and both gentlemen warmly pressed the hand of the
lady they were leaving. Mr Rubb was not quite satisfied with his evening's work, because he
had not been able to get near to Miss Mackenzie; but, nevertheless, he was greatly gratified
by the general manner in which he had been received, and was much pleased with Littlebath and
its inhabitants. Mr Maguire, as he walked home by himself, assured himself that he might as
well now put the question; he had been thinking about it for the last two months, and had made
up his mind that matrimony would be good for him.

Miss Mackenzie, as she went to bed, told herself that she might have a husband if she pleased;
but then, which should it be? Mr Rubb's manners were very much against him; but of Mr Maguire's
eye she had caught a gleam as he turned from her on the doorsteps, which made her think of
that alliance with dismay.

CHAPTER XII

Mrs Stumfold Interferes

On the morning following Miss Todd's tea-party, Mr Rubb called on Miss Mackenzie and bade her
adieu. He was, he said, going up to London at once, having received a letter which made his
presence there imperative. Miss Mackenzie could, of course, do no more than simply say good-bye
to him. But when she had said so he did not even then go at once. He was standing with his
hat in hand, and had bade her farewell; but still he did not go. He had something to say, and
she stood there trembling, half fearing what the nature of that something might be.

"I hope I may see you again before long," he said at last.

"I hope you may," she replied.

"Of course I shall. After all that's come and gone, I shall think nothing of running down,
if it were only to make a morning call."

"Pray don't do that, Mr Rubb."

"I shall, as a matter of course. But in spite of that, Miss Mackenzie, I can't go away without
saying another word about the money. I can't indeed."

"There needn't be any more about that, Mr Rubb."

"But there must be, Miss Mackenzie; there must, indeed; at least, so much as this. I know I've
done wrong about that money."

"Don't talk about it. If I choose to lend it to my brother and you without security, there's
nothing very uncommon in that."

"No; there ain't; at least perhaps there ain't. Though as far as I can see, brothers and sisters
out in the world are mostly as hard to each other where money is concerned as other people.
But the thing is, you didn't mean to lend it without security."

"I'm quite contented as it is."

"And I did wrong about it all through; I feel it so that I can't tell you. I do, indeed. But
I'll never rest till that money is paid back again. I never will."

Then, having said that, he went away. When early on the preceding evening he had put on bright
yellow gloves, making himself smart before the eyes of the lady of his love, it must be presumed
that he did so with some hope of success. In that hope he was altogether betrayed. When he
came and confessed his fraud about the money, it must be supposed that in doing so he felt
that he was lowering himself in the estimation of her whom he desired to win for his wife.
But, had he only known it, he thereby took the most efficacious step towards winning her esteem.
The gloves had been nearly fatal to him; but those words,--"I feel it so that I can't tell
you," redeemed the evil that the gloves had done. He went away, however, saying nothing more
then, and failing to strike while the iron was hot.

Some six weeks after this Mrs Stumfold called on Miss Mackenzie, making a most important visit.
But it should be first explained, before the nature of that visit is described, that Miss Mackenzie
had twice been to Mrs Stumfold's house since the evening of Miss Todd's party, drinking tea
there on both occasions, and had twice met Mr Maguire. On the former occasion they two had
had some conversation, but it had been of no great moment. He had spoken nothing then of the
pleasures of love, nor had he made any allusion to the dove-like softness of women. On the
second meeting he had seemed to keep aloof from her altogether, and she had begun to tell herself
that that dream was over, and to scold herself for having dreamed at all--when he came close
up behind and whispered a word in her ear.

"You know," he said, "how much I would wish to be with you, but I can't now."

She had been startled, and had turned round, and had found herself close to his dreadful eye.
She had never been so close to it before, and it frightened her. Then again he came to her
just before she left, and spoke to her in the same mysterious way:

"I will see you in a day or two," he said, "but never mind now;" and then he walked away. She
had not spoken a word to him, nor did she speak a word to him that evening.

Miss Mackenzie had never before seen Mrs Stumfold since her first visit of ceremony, except
in that lady's drawing-room, and was surprised when she heard the name announced. It was an
understood thing that Mrs Stumfold did not call on the Stumfoldians unless she had some great
and special reason for doing so,--unless some erring sister required admonishing, or the course
of events in the life of some Stumfoldian might demand special advice. I do not know that any
edict of this kind had actually been pronounced, but Miss Mackenzie, though she had not yet
been twelve months in Littlebath, knew that this arrangement was generally understood to exist.
It was plain to be seen by the lady's face, as she entered the room, that some special cause
had brought her now. It wore none of those pretty smiles with which morning callers greet their
friends before they begin their first gentle attempts at miscellaneous conversation. It was
true that she gave her hand to Miss Mackenzie, but she did even this with austerity; and when
she seated herself,--not on the sofa as she was invited to do, but on one of the square, hard,
straight-backed chairs,--Miss Mackenzie knew well that pleasantness was not to be the order
of the morning.

"My dear Miss Mackenzie," said Mrs Stumfold, "I hope you will pardon me if I express much tender
solicitude for your welfare."

Miss Mackenzie was so astonished at this mode of address, and at the tone in which it was uttered,
that she made no reply to it. The words themselves had in them an intention of kindness, but
the voice and look of the lady were, if kind, at any rate not tender.

"You came among us," continued Mrs Stumfold, "and became one of us, and we have been glad to
welcome you."

"I'm sure I've been much obliged."

"We are always glad to welcome those who come among us in a proper spirit. Society with me,
Miss Mackenzie, is never looked upon as an end in itself. It is only a means to an end. No
woman regards society more favourably than I do. I think it offers to us one of the most efficacious
means of spreading true gospel teaching. With these views I have always thought it right to
open my house in a spirit, as I hope, of humble hospitality;--and Mr Stumfold is of the same
opinion. Holding these views, we have been delighted to see you among us, and, as I have said
already, to welcome you as one of us."

There was something in this so awful that Miss Mackenzie hardly knew how to speak, or let it
pass without speaking. Having a spirit of her own she did not like being told that she had
been, as it were, sat upon and judged, and then admitted into Mrs Stumfold's society as a child
may be admitted into a school after an examination. And yet on the spur of the moment she could
not think what words might be appropriate for her answer. She sat silent, therefore, and Mrs
Stumfold again went on.

"I trust that you will acknowledge that we have shown our good will towards you, our desire
to cultivate a Christian friendship with you, and that you will therefore excuse me if I ask
you a question which might otherwise have the appearance of interference. Miss Mackenzie, is
there anything between you and my husband's curate, Mr Maguire?"

Miss Mackenzie's face became suddenly as red as fire, but for a moment or two she made no answer.
I do not know whether I may as yet have succeeded in making the reader understand the strength
as well as the weakness of my heroine's character; but Mrs Stumfold had certainly not succeeded
in perceiving it. She was accustomed, probably, to weak, obedient women,--to women who had
taught themselves to believe that submission to Stumfoldian authority was a sign of advanced
Christianity; and in the mild-looking, quiet-mannered lady who had lately come among them,
she certainly did not expect to encounter a rebel. But on such matters as that to which the
female hierarch of Littlebath was now alluding, Miss Mackenzie was not by nature adapted to
be submissive.

"Is there anything between you and Mr Maguire?" said Mrs Stumfold again. "I particularly wish
to have a plain answer to that question."

Miss Mackenzie, as I have said, became very red in the face. When it was repeated, she found
herself obliged to speak. "Mrs Stumfold, I do not know that you have any right to ask me such
a question as that."

"No right! No right to ask a lady who sits under Mr Stumfold whether or not she is engaged
to Mr Stumfold's own curate! Think again of what you are saying, Miss Mackenzie!" And there
was in Mrs Stumfold's voice as she spoke an expression of offended majesty, and in her countenance
a look of awful authority, sufficient no doubt to bring most Stumfoldian ladies to their bearings.

"You said nothing about being engaged to him."

"Oh, Miss Mackenzie!"

"You said nothing about being engaged to him, but if you had I should have made the same answer.
You asked me if there was anything between me and him; and I think it was a very offensive
question."

"Offensive! I am afraid, Miss Mackenzie, you have not your spirit subject to a proper control.
I have come here in all kindness to warn you against danger, and you tell me that I am offensive!
What am I to think of you?"

"You have no right to connect my name with any gentleman's. You can't have any right merely
because I go to Mr Stumfold's church. It's quite preposterous. If I went to Mr Paul's church"--Mr
Paul was a very High Church young clergyman who had wished to have candles in his church, and
of whom it was asserted that he did keep a pair of candles on an inverted box in a closet inside
his bedroom--"if I went to Mr Paul's church, might his wife, if he had one, come and ask me
all manner of questions like that?"

Now Mr Paul's name stank in the nostrils of Mrs Stumfold. He was to her the thing accursed.
Had Miss Mackenzie quoted the Pope, or Cardinal Wiseman or even Dr Newman, it would not have
been so bad. Mrs Stumfold had once met Mr Paul, and called him to his face the most abject
of all the slaves of the scarlet woman. To this courtesy Mr Paul, being a good-humoured and
somewhat sportive young man, had replied that she was another. Mrs Stumfold had interpreted
the gentleman's meaning wrongly, and had ever since gnashed with her teeth and fired great
guns with her eyes whenever Mr Paul was named within her hearing. "Ribald ruffian," she had
once said of him; "but that he thinks his priestly rags protect him, he would not have dared
to insult me." It was said that she had complained to Stumfold; but Mr Stumfold's sacerdotal
clothing, whether ragged or whole, prevented him also from interfering, and nothing further
of a personal nature had occurred between the opponents.

But Miss Mackenzie, who certainly was a Stumfoldian by her own choice, should not have used
the name. She probably did not know the whole truth as to that passage of arms between Mr Paul
and Mrs Stumfold, but she did know that no name in Littlebath was so odious to the lady as
that of the rival clergyman.

"Very well, Miss Mackenzie," said she, speaking loudly in her wrath; "then let me tell you
that you will come by your ruin,--yes, by your ruin. You poor unfortunate woman, you are unfit
to guide your own steps, and will not take counsel from those who are able to put you in the
right way!"

"How shall I be ruined?" said Miss Mackenzie, jumping up from her seat.

"How? Yes. Now you want to know. After having insulted me in return for my kindness in coming
to you, you ask me questions. If I tell you how, no doubt you will insult me again."

"I haven't insulted you, Mrs Stumfold. And if you don't like to tell me, you needn't. I'm sure
I did not want you to come to me and talk in this way."

"Want me! Who ever does want to be reproved for their own folly? I suppose what you want is
to go on and marry that man, who may have two or three other wives for what you know, and put
yourself and your money into the hands of a person whom you never saw in your life above a
few months ago, and of whose former life you literally know nothing. Tell the truth, Miss Mackenzie,
isn't that what you desire to do?"

"I find him acting as Mr Stumfold's curate."

"Yes; and when I come to warn you, you insult me. He is Mr Stumfold's curate, and in many respects
he is well fitted for his office."

"But has he two or three wives already, Mrs Stumfold?"

"I never said that he had."

"I thought you hinted it."

"I never hinted it, Miss Mackenzie. If you would only be a little more careful in the things
which you allow yourself to say, it would be better for yourself; and better for me too, while
I am with you."

"I declare you said something about two or three wives; and if there is anything of that kind
true of a gentleman and a clergyman, I don't think he ought to be allowed to go about as a
single gentleman. I mean as a curate. Mr Maguire is nothing to me,--nothing whatever; and I
don't see why I should have been mixed up with him; but if there is anything of that sort--"

"But there isn't."

"Then, Mrs Stumfold, I don't think you ought to have mentioned two or three wives. I don't,
indeed. It is such a horrid idea,--quite horrid! And I suppose, after all, the poor man has
not got one?"

"If you had allowed me, I should have told you all, Miss Mackenzie. Mr Maguire is not married,
and never has been married, as far as I know."

"Then I do think what you said of him was very cruel."

"I said nothing; as you would have known, only you are so hot. Miss Mackenzie, you quite astonish
me; you do, indeed. I had expected to find you temperate and calm; instead of that, you are
so impetuous, that you will not listen to a word. When it first came to my ears that there
might be something between you and Mr Maguire--"

"I will not be told about something. What does something mean, Mrs Stumfold?"

"When I was told of this," continued Mrs Stumfold, determined that she would not be stopped
any longer by Miss Mackenzie's energy; "when I was told of this, and, indeed, I may say saw it--"

"You never saw anything, Mrs Stumfold."

"I immediately perceived that it was my duty to come to you; to come to you and tell you that
another lady has a prior claim upon Mr Maguire's hand and heart."

"Oh, indeed."

"Another young lady,"--with an emphasis on the word young,--"whom he first met at my house,
who was introduced to him by me,--a young lady not above thirty years of age, and quite suitable
in every way to be Mr Maguire's wife. She may not have quite so much money as you; but she
has a fair provision, and money is not everything; a lady in every way suitable--"

"But is this suitable young lady, who is only thirty years of age, engaged to him?"

"I presume, Miss Mackenzie, that in speaking to you, I am speaking to a lady who would not
wish to interfere with another lady who has been before her. I do hope that you cannot be indifferent
to the ordinary feelings of a female Christian on that subject. What would you think if you
were interfered with, though, perhaps, as you had not your fortune in early life, you may never
have known what that was."

This was too much even for Miss Mackenzie.

"Mrs Stumfold," she said, again rising from her seat, "I won't talk about this any more with
you. Mr Maguire is nothing to me; and, as far as I can see, if he was, that would be nothing
to you."

"But it would,--a great deal."

"No, it wouldn't. You may say what you like to him, though, for the matter of that, I think
it a very indelicate thing for a lady to go about raising such questions at all. But perhaps
you have known him a long time, and I have nothing to do with what you and he choose to talk
about. If he is behaving bad to any friend of yours, go and tell him so. As for me, I won't
hear anything more about it."

As Miss Mackenzie continued to stand, Mrs Stumfold was forced to stand also, and soon afterwards
found herself compelled to go away. She had, indeed, said all that she had come to say, and
though she would willingly have repeated it again had Miss Mackenzie been submissive, she did
not find herself encouraged to do so by the rebellious nature of the lady she was visiting.

"I have meant well, Miss Mackenzie," she said as she took her leave, "and I hope that I shall
see you just the same as ever on my Thursdays."

To this Miss Mackenzie made answer only by a curtsey, and then Mrs Stumfold went her way.

Miss Mackenzie, as soon as she was left to herself, began to cry. If Mrs Stumfold could have
seen her, how it would have soothed and rejoiced that lady's ruffled spirit! Miss Mackenzie
would sooner have died than have wept in Mrs Stumfold's presence, but no sooner was the front
door closed than she began. To have been attacked at all in that way would have been too much
for her, but to have been called old and unsuitable--for that was, in truth, the case; to hear
herself accused of being courted solely for her money, and that when in truth she had not been
courted at all; to have been informed that a lover for her must have been impossible in those
days when she had no money! was not all this enough to make her cry? And then, was it the truth
that Mr Maguire ought to marry some one else? If so, she was the last woman in Littlebath to
interfere between him and that other one. But how was she to know that this was not some villainy
on the part of Mrs Stumfold? She felt sure, after what she had now seen and heard, that nothing
in that way would be too bad for Mrs Stumfold to say or do. She never would go to Mrs Stumfold's
house again; that was a matter of course; but what should she do about Mr Maguire? Mr Maguire
might never speak to her in the way of affection,--probably never would do so; that she could
bear; but how was she to bear the fact that every Stumfoldian in Littlebath would know all
about it? On one thing she finally resolved, that if ever Mr Maguire spoke to her on the subject,
she would tell him everything that had occurred. After that she cried herself to sleep.

On that afternoon she felt herself to be very desolate and much in want of a friend. When Susanna
came back from school in the evening she was almost more desolate than before. She could say
nothing of her troubles to one so young, nor yet could she shake off the thought of them. She
had been bold enough while Mrs Stumfold had been with her, but now that she was alone, or almost
worse than alone, having Susanna with her,--now that the reaction had come, she began to tell
herself that a continuation of this solitary life would be impossible to her. How was she to
live if she was to be trampled upon in this way? Was it not almost necessary that she should
leave Littlebath? And yet if she were to leave Littlebath, whither should she go, and how should
she muster courage to begin everything over again? If only it had been given her to have one
friend,--one female friend to whom she could have told everything! She thought of Miss Baker,
but Miss Baker was a staunch Stumfoldian; and what did she know of Miss Baker that gave her
any right to trouble Miss Baker on such a subject? She would almost rather have gone to Miss
Todd, if she had dared.

She laid awake crying half the night. Nothing of the kind had ever occurred to her before.
No one had ever accused her of any impropriety; no one had ever thrown it in her teeth that
she was longing after fruit that ought to be forbidden to her. In her former obscurity and
dependence she had been safe. Now that she had begun to look about her and hope for joy in
the world, she had fallen into this terrible misfortune! Would it not have been better for
her to have married her cousin John Ball, and thus have had a clear course of duty marked out
for her? Would it not have been better for her even to have married Harry Handcock than to
have come to this misery? What good would her money do her, if the world was to treat her in
this way?

And then, was it true? Was it the fact that Mr Maguire was ill-treating some other woman in
order that he might get her money? In all her misery she remembered that Mrs Stumfold would
not commit herself to any such direct assertion, and she remembered also that Mrs Stumfold
had especially insisted on her own part of the grievance,--on the fact that the suitable young
lady had been met by Mr Maguire in her drawing-room. As to Mr Maguire himself, she could reconcile
herself to the loss of him. Indeed she had never yet reconciled herself to the idea of taking
him. But she could not endure to think that Mrs Stumfold's interference should prevail, or,
worse still, that other people should have supposed it to prevail.

The next day was Thursday,--one of Mrs Stumfold's Thursdays,--and in the course of the morning
Miss Baker came to her, supposing that, as a matter of course, she would go to the meeting.

"Not to-night, Miss Baker," said she.

"Not going! and why not?"

"I'd rather not go out to-night."

"Dear me, how odd. I thought you always went to Mrs Stumfold's. There's nothing wrong, I hope?"

Then Miss Mackenzie could not restrain herself, and told Miss Baker everything. And she told
her story, not with whines and lamentations, as she had thought of it herself while lying awake
during the past night, but with spirited indignation. "What right had she to come to me and
accuse me?"

"I suppose she meant it for the best," said Miss Baker.

"No, Miss Baker, she meant it for the worst. I am sorry to speak so of your friend, but I must
speak as I find her. She intended to insult me. Why did she tell me of my age and my money?
Have I made myself out to be young? or misbehaved myself with the means which Providence has
given me? And as to the gentleman, have I ever conducted myself so as to merit reproach? I
don't know that I was ever ten minutes in his company that you were not there also."

"It was the last accusation I should have brought against you," whimpered Miss Baker.

"Then why has she treated me in this way? What right have I given her to be my advisor, because
I go to her husband's church? Mr Maguire is my friend, and it might have come to that, that
he should be my husband. Is there any sin in that, that I should be rebuked?"

"It was for the other lady's sake, perhaps."

"Then let her go to the other lady, or to him. She has forgotten herself in coming to me, and
she shall know that I think so."

Miss Baker, when she left the Paragon, felt for Miss Mackenzie more of respect and more of
esteem also than she had ever felt before. But Miss Mackenzie, when she was left alone, went
upstairs, threw herself on her bed, and was again dissolved in tears.

CHAPTER XIII

Mr Maguire's Courtship

After the scene between Miss Mackenzie and Miss Baker more than a week passed by before Miss
Mackenzie saw any of her Littlebath friends; or, as she called them with much sadness when
speaking of them to herself, her Littlebath acquaintances. Friends, or friend, she had none.
It was a slow, heavy week with her, and it is hardly too much to say that every hour in it
was spent in thinking of the attack which Mrs Stumfold had made upon her. When the first Sunday
came, she went to church, and saw there Miss Baker, and Mrs Stumfold, and Mr Stumfold and Mr
Maguire. She saw, indeed, many Stumfoldians, but it seemed that their eyes looked at her harshly,
and she was quite sure that the coachmaker's wife treated her with marked incivility as they
left the porch together. Miss Baker had frequently waited for her on Sunday mornings, and walked
the length of two streets with her; but she encountered no Miss Baker near the church gate
on this morning, and she was sure that Mrs Stumfold had prevailed against her. If it was to
be thus with her, had she not better leave Littlebath as soon as possible? In the same solitude
she lived the whole of the next week; with the same feelings did she go to church on the next
Sunday; and then again was she maltreated by the upturned nose and half-averted eyes of the
coachmaker's wife.

Life such as this would be impossible to her. Let any of my readers think of it, and then tell
themselves whether it could be possible. Mariana's solitude in the moated grange was as nothing
to hers. In granges, and such like rural retreats, people expect solitude; but Miss Mackenzie
had gone to Littlebath to find companionship. Had she been utterly disappointed, and found
none, that would have been bad; but she had found it and then lost it. Mariana, in her desolateness,
was still waiting for the coming of some one; and so was Miss Mackenzie waiting, though she
hardly knew for whom. For me, if I am to live in a moated grange, let it be in the country.
Moated granges in the midst of populous towns are very terrible.

But on the Monday morning,--the morning of the second Monday after the Stumfoldian attach,--Mr
Maguire came, and Mariana's weariness was, for the time, at an end. Susanna had hardly gone,
and the breakfast things were still on the table, when the maid brought her up word that Mr
Maguire was below, and would see her if she would allow him to come up. She had heard no ring
at the bell, and having settled herself with a novel in the arm-chair, had almost ceased for
the moment to think of Mr Maguire or of Mrs Stumfold. There was something so sudden in the
request now made to her, that it took away her breath.

"Mr Maguire, Miss, the clergyman from Mr Stumfold's church," said the girl again.

It was necessary that she should give an answer, though she was ever so breathless.

"Ask Mr Maguire to walk up," she said; and then she began to bethink herself how she would
behave to him.

He was there, however, before her thoughts were of much service to her, and she began by apologising
for the breakfast things.

"It is I that ought to beg your pardon for coming so early," said he; "but my time at present
is so occupied that I hardly know how to find half an hour for myself; and I thought you would
excuse me."

"Oh, certainly," said she; and then sitting down she waited for him to begin.

It would have been clear to any observer, had there been one present, that Mr Maguire had practised
his lesson. He could not rid himself of those unmistakable signs of preparation which every
speaker shows when he has been guilty of them. But this probably did not matter with Miss Mackenzie,
who was too intent on the part she herself had to play to notice his imperfections.

"I saw that you observed, Miss Mackenzie," he said, "that I kept aloof from you on the two
last evenings on which I met you at Mrs Stumfold's."

"That's a long time ago, Mr Maguire," she answered. "It's nearly a month since I went to Mrs
Stumfold's house."

"I know that you were not there on the last Thursday. I noticed it. I could not fail to notice
it. Thinking so much of you as I do, of course I did notice it. Might I ask you why you did
not go?"

"I'd rather not say anything about it," she replied, after a pause.

"Then there has been some reason? Dear Miss Mackenzie, I can assure you I do not ask you without
a cause."

"If you please, I will not speak upon that subject. I had much rather not, indeed, Mr Maguire."

"And shall I not have the pleasure of seeing you there on next Thursday?"

"Certainly not."

"Then you have quarrelled with her, Miss Mackenzie?"

He said nothing now of the perfections of that excellent woman, of whom not long since he had
spoken in terms almost too strong for any simple human virtues.

"I'd rather not speak of it. It can't do any good. I don't know why you should ask me whether
I intend to go there any more, but as you have, I have answered you."

Then Mr Maguire got up from his chair, and walked about the room, and Miss Mackenzie, watching
him closely, could see that he was much moved. But, nevertheless, I think he had made up his
mind to walk about the room beforehand. After a while he paused, and, still standing, spoke
to her again across the table.

"May I ask you this question? Has Mrs Stumfold said anything to you about me?"

"I'd rather not talk about Mrs Stumfold."

"But, surely, I may ask that. I don't think you are the woman to allow anything said behind
a person's back to be received to his detriment."

"Whatever one does hear about people one always hears behind their backs."

"Then she has told you something, and you have believed it?"

She felt herself to be so driven by him that she did not know how to protect herself. It seemed
to her that these clerical people of Littlebath had very little regard for the feelings of
others in their modes of following their own pursuits.

"She has told you something of me, and you have believed her?" repeated Mr Maguire. "Have I
not a right to ask you what she has said?"

"You have no right to ask me anything."

"Have I not, Miss Mackenzie? Surely that is hard. Is it not hard that I should be stabbed in
the dark, and have no means of redressing myself? I did not expect such an answer from you;--indeed
I did not."

"And is not it hard that I should be troubled in this way? You talk of stabbing. Who has stabbed
you? Is it not your own particular friend, whom you described to me as the best person in all
the world? If you and she fall out why should I be brought into it? Once for all, Mr Maguire,
I won't be brought into it."

Now he sat down and again paused before he went on with his talk.

"Miss Mackenzie," he said, when he did speak. "I had not intended to be so abrupt as I fear
you will think me in that which I am about to say; but I believe you will like plain measures
best."

"Certainly I shall, Mr Maguire."

"They are the best, always. If, then, I am plain with you, will you be plain with me also?
I think you must guess what it is I have to say to you."

"I hate guessing anything, Mr Maguire."

"Very well; then I will be plain. We have now known each other for nearly a year, Miss Mackenzie."

"A year, is it? No, not a year. This is the beginning of June, and I did not come here till
the end of last August. It's about nine months, Mr Maguire."

"Very well; nine months. Nine months may be as nothing in an acquaintance, or it may lead to
the closest friendship."

"I don't know that we have met so very often. You have the parish to attend to, Mr Maguire."

"Of course I have--or rather I had, for I have left Mr Stumfold."

"Left Mr Stumfold! Why, I heard you preach yesterday."

"I did preach yesterday, and shall till he has got another assistant. But he and I are parted
as regards all friendly connection."

"But isn't that a pity?"

"Miss Mackenzie, I don't mind telling you that I have found it impossible to put up with the
impertinence of that woman"--and now, as he spoke, there came a distorted fire out of his imperfect
eye--"impossible! If you knew what I have gone through in attempting it! But that's over. I
have the greatest respect for him in the world; a very thorough esteem. He is a hard-working
man, and though I do not always approve the style of his wit,--of which, by-the-bye, he thinks
too much himself,--still I acknowledge him to be a good spiritual pastor. But he has been unfortunate
in his marriage. No doubt he has got money, but money is not everything."

"Indeed, it is not, Mr Maguire."

"How he can live in the same house with that Mr Peters, I can never understand. The quarrels
between him and his daughter are so incessant that poor Mr Stumfold is unable to conceal them
from the public."

"But you have spoken so highly of her."

"I have endeavoured, Miss Mackenzie--I have endeavoured to think well of her. I have striven
to believe that it was all gold that I saw. But let that pass. I was forced to tell you that
I am going to leave Mr Stumfold's church, or I should not now have spoken about her or him.
And now comes the question, Miss Mackenzie."

"What is the question, Mr Maguire?"

"Miss Mackenzie--Margaret, will you share your lot with mine? It is true that you have money.
It is true that I have none,--not even a curacy now. But I don't think that any such consideration
as that would weigh with you for a moment, if you can find it in your heart to love me."

Miss Mackenzie sat thinking for some minutes before she gave her answer--or striving to think;
but she was so completely under the terrible fire of his eye, that any thought was very difficult.

"I am not quite sure about that," she said after a while. "I think, Mr Maguire, that there
should be a little money on both sides. You would hardly wish to live altogether on your wife's
fortune."

"I have my profession," he replied, quickly.

"Yes, certainly; and a noble profession it is,--the most noble," said she.

"Yes, indeed; the most noble."

"But somehow--"

"You mean the clergymen are not paid as they should be. No, they are not, Miss Mackenzie. And
is it not a shame for a Christian country like this that it should be so? But still, as a profession,
it has its value. Look at Mrs Stumfold; where would she be if she were not a clergyman's wife?
The position has its value. A clergyman's wife is received everywhere, you know."

"A man before he talks of marriage ought to have something of his own, Mr Maguire, besides--"

"Besides what?"

"Well, I'll tell you. As you have done me this honour, I think that I am now bound to tell
you what Mrs Stumfold said to me. She had no right to connect my name with yours or with that
of any other gentleman, and my quarrel with her is about that. As to what she said about you,
that is your affair and not mine."

Then she told him the whole of that conversation which was given in the last chapter, not indeed
repeating the hint about the three or four wives, but recapitulating as clearly as she could
all that had been said about the suitable young lady.

"I knew it," said he; "I knew it. I knew it as well as though I had heard it. Now what am I
to think of that woman, Miss Mackenzie?"

"Of which woman?"

"Of Mrs Stumfold, of course. It's all jealousy: every bit of it jealousy."

"Jealousy! Do you mean that she--that she--"

"Not jealousy of that kind, Miss Mackenzie. Oh dear, no. She's as pure as the undriven snow,
I should say, as far as that goes. But she can't bear to think that I should rise in the world."

"I thought she wanted to marry you to a suitable lady, and young, with a fair provision."

"Pshaw! The lady has about seventy pounds a-year! But that would signify nothing if I loved
her, Miss Mackenzie."

"There has been something, then?"

"Yes; there has been something. That is, nothing of my doing,--nothing on earth. Miss Mackenzie,
I am as innocent as the babe unborn."

As he said this she could not help looking into the horrors of his eyes, and thinking that
innocent was not the word for him.

"I'm as innocent as the babe unborn. Why should I be expected to marry a lady merely because
Mrs Stumfold tells me that there she is? And it's my belief that old Peters has got their money
somewhere, and won't give it up, and that that's the reason of it."

"But did you ever say you would marry her?"

"What! Miss Floss, never! I'll tell you the whole story, Miss Mackenzie; and if you want to
ask any one else, you can ask Mrs Perch." Mrs Perch was the coachbuilder's wife. "You've seen
Miss Floss at Mrs Stumfold's, and must know yourself whether I ever noticed her any more than
to be decently civil."

"Is she the lady that's so thin and tall?"

"Yes."

"With the red hair?"

"Well, it's sandy, certainly. I shouldn't call it just red myself."

"Some people like red hair, you know," said Miss Mackenzie, thinking of the suitable lady.
Miss Mackenzie was willing at that moment to forfeit all her fortune if Miss Floss was not
older than she was! "And that is Miss Floss, is it?"

"Yes, and I don't blame Mrs Stumfold for wishing to get a husband for her friend, but it is
hard upon me."

"Really, Mr Maguire, I think that perhaps you couldn't do better."

"Better than what?"

"Better than take Miss Floss. As you say, some people like red hair. And she is very suitable,
certainly. And, Mr Maguire, I really shouldn't like to interfere;--I shouldn't indeed."

"Miss Mackenzie, you're joking, I know."

"Not in the least, Mr Maguire. You see there has been something about it."

"There has been nothing."

"There's never smoke without fire; and I don't think a lady like Mrs Stumfold would come here
and tell me all that she did, if it hadn't gone some way. And you owned just now that you admired
her."

"I never owned anything of the kind. I don't admire her a bit. Admire her! Oh, Miss Mackenzie,
what do you think of me?"

Miss Mackenzie said that she really didn't know what to think.

Then, having as he thought altogether disposed of Miss Floss, he began again to press his suit.
And she was weak; for though she gave him no positive encouragement, neither did she give him
any positive denial. Her mind was by no means made up, and she did not know whether she wished
to take him or to leave him. Now that the thing had come so near, what guarantee had she that
he would be good to her if she gave him everything that she possessed? As to her cousin John
Ball, she would have had many guarantees. Of him she could say that she knew what sort of a
man he was; but what did she know of Mr Maguire? At that moment, as he sat there pleading his
own cause with all the eloquence at his command, she remembered that she did not even know
his Christian name. He had always in her presence been called Mr Maguire. How could she say
that she loved a man whose very name she had not as yet heard?

But still, if she left all her chances to run from her, what other fate would she have but
that of being friendless all her life? Of course she must risk much if she was ever minded
to change her mode of life. She had said something to him as to the expediency of there being
money on both sides, but as she said it she knew that she would willingly have given up her
money could she only have been sure of her man. Was not her income enough for both? What she
wanted was companionship, and love if it might be possible; but if not love, then friendship.
This, had she known where she could purchase it with certainty, she would willingly have purchased
with all her wealth.

"If I have surprised you, will you say that you will take time to think of it?" pleaded Mr Maguire.

Miss Mackenzie, speaking in the lowest possible voice, said that she would take time to think
of it.

When a lady says that she will take time to think of such a proposition, the gentleman is generally
justified in supposing that he has carried his cause. When a lady rejects a suitor, she should
reject him peremptorily. Anything short of such peremptory reaction is taken for acquiescence.
Mr Maguire consequently was elated, called her Margaret, and swore that he loved her as he
had never loved woman yet.

"And when may I come again?" he asked.

Miss Mackenzie begged that she might be allowed a fortnight to think of it.

"Certainly," said the happy man.

"And you must not be surprised," said Miss Mackenzie, "if I make some inquiry about Miss Floss."

"Any inquiry you please," said Mr Maguire. "It is all in that woman's brain; it is indeed.
Miss Floss, perhaps, has thought of it; but I can't help that, can I? I can't help what has
been said to her. But if you mean anything as to a promise from me, Margaret, on my word as
a Christian minister of the Gospel, there has been nothing of the kind."

She did not much mind his calling her Margaret; it was in itself such a trifle; but when he
made a fuss about kissing her hand it annoyed her.

"Only your hand," he said, beseeching the privilege.

"Pshaw," she said, "what's the good?"

She had sense enough to feel that with such lovemaking as that between her and her lover there
should be no kissing till after marriage; or at any rate, no kissing of hands, as is done between
handsome young men of twenty-three and beautiful young ladies of eighteen, when they sit in
balconies on moonlight nights. A good honest kiss, mouth to mouth, might not be amiss when
matters were altogether settled; but when she thought of this, she thought also of his eye
and shuddered. His eye was not his fault, and a man should not be left all his days without
a wife because he squints; but still, was it possible? could she bring herself to endure it?

He did kiss her hand, however, and then went. As he stood at the door he looked back fondly
and exclaimed--

"On Monday fortnight, Margaret; on Monday fortnight."

"Goodness gracious, Mr Maguire," she answered, "do shut the door;" and then he vanished.

As soon as he was gone she remembered that his name was Jeremiah. She did not know how she
had learned it, but she knew that such was the fact. If it did come to pass how was she to
call him? She tried the entire word Jeremiah, but it did not seem to answer. She tried Jerry
also, but that was worse. Jerry might have been very well had they come together fifteen years
earlier in life, but she did not think that she could call him Jerry now. She supposed it must
be Mr Maguire; but if so, half the romance of the thing would be gone at once!

She felt herself to be very much at sea, and almost wished that she might be like Mariana again,
waiting and aweary, so grievous was the necessity of having to make up her mind on such a subject.
To whom should she go for advice? She had told him that she would make further inquiries about
Miss Floss, but of whom was she to make them? The only person to whom she could apply was Miss
Baker, and she was almost sure that Miss Baker would despise her for thinking of marrying Mr
Maguire.

But after a day or two she did tell Miss Baker, and she saw at once that Miss Baker did despise
her. But Miss Baker, though she manifestly did despise her, promised her some little aid. Miss
Todd knew everything and everybody. Might Miss Baker tell Miss Todd? If there was anything
wrong, Miss Todd would ferret it out to a certainty. Miss Mackenzie, hanging down her head,
said that Miss Baker might tell Miss Todd. Miss Baker, when she left Miss Mackenzie, turned
at once into Miss Todd's house, and found her friend at home.

"It surprises me that any woman should be so foolish," said Miss Baker.

"Come, come, my dear, don't you be hard upon her. We have all been foolish in our days. Do
you remember, when Sir Lionel used to be here, how foolish you and I were?"

"It's not the same thing at all," said Miss Baker. "Did you ever see a man with such an eye
as he has got?"

"I shouldn't mind his eye, my dear; only I'm afraid he's got no money."

Miss Todd, however, promised to make inquiries, and declared her intention of communicating
what intelligence she might obtain direct to Miss Mackenzie. Miss Baker resisted this for a
little while, but ultimately submitted, as she was wont to do, to the stronger character of
her friend.

Miss Mackenzie had declared that she must have a fortnight to think about it, and Miss Todd
therefore knew that she had nearly a fortnight for her inquiries. The reader may be sure that
she did not allow the grass to grow under her feet. With Miss Mackenzie the time passed slowly
enough, for she could only sit on her sofa and doubt, resolving first one way and then another;
but Miss Todd went about Littlebath, here and there, among friends and enemies, filling up
all her time; and before the end of the fortnight she certainly knew more about Mr Maguire
than did anybody else in Littlebath.

She did not see Miss Mackenzie till the Saturday, the last Saturday before the all-important
Monday; but on that day she went to her.

"I suppose you know what I'm come about, my dear," she said.

Miss Mackenzie blushed, and muttered something about Miss Baker.

"Yes, my dear; Miss Baker was speaking to me about Mr Maguire. You needn't mind speaking out
to me, Miss Mackenzie. I can understand all about it; and if I can be of any assistance, I
shall be very happy. No doubt you feel a little shy, but you needn't mind with me."

"I'm sure you're very good."

"I don't know about that, but I hope I'm not very bad. The long and the short of it is, I suppose,
that you think you might as well--might as well take Mr Maguire."

Miss Mackenzie felt thoroughly ashamed of herself. She could not explain to Miss Todd all her
best motives; and then, those motives which were not the best were made to seem so very weak
and mean by the way in which Miss Todd approached them. When she thought of the matter alone,
it seemed to her that she was perfectly reasonable in wishing to be married, in order that
she might escape the monotony of a lonely life; and she thought that if she could talk to Miss
Todd about the subject gently, for a quarter of an hour at a time every day for two or three
months, it was possible that she might explain her views with credit to herself; but how could
she do this to anyone so very abruptly? She could only confess that she did want to marry the
man, as the child confesses her longing for a tart.

"I have thought about it, certainly," she said.

"Quite right," said Miss Todd; "quite right if you like him. Now for me, I'm so fond of my
own money and my own independence, that I've never had a fancy that way,--not since I was a girl."

"But you're so different, Miss Todd; you've got such a position of your own."

And Miss Mackenzie, who was at present desirous of marrying a very strict evangelical clergyman,
thought with envy of the social advantages and pleasant iniquities of her wicked neighbour.

"Oh, I don't know. I've a few friends, but that comes of being here so long. And then, you
see, I ain't particular as you are. I always see that when a lady goes in to be evangelical,
she soon finds a husband to take care of her; that is, if she has got any money. It all goes
on very well, and I've no doubt they're right. There's my friend Mary Baker, she's single still;
but then she began very late in life. Now about Mr Maguire."

"Well, Miss Todd."

"In the first place, I really don't think he has got much that he can call his own."

"He hasn't got anything, Miss Todd; he told me so himself."

"Did he, indeed?" said Miss Todd; "then let me tell you he is a deal honester than they are
in general."

"Oh, he told me that. I know he's got no income in the world besides his curacy, and that he
has thrown up."

"And therefore you are going to give him yours."

"I don't know about that, Miss Todd; but it wasn't about money that I was doubting. What I've
got is enough for both of us, if his wants are not greater than mine. What is the use of money
if people cannot be happy together with it? I don't care a bit for money, Miss Todd; that is,
not for itself. I shouldn't like to be dependent on a stranger; I don't know that I would like
to be dependent again even on a brother; but I should take no shame to be dependent on a husband
if he was good to me."

"That's just it; isn't it?"

"There's quite enough for him and me."

"I must say you look at the matter in the most disinterested way. I couldn't bring myself to
take it up like that."

"You haven't lived the life that I have, Miss Todd, and I don't suppose you ever feel solitary
as I do."

"Well, I don't know. We single women have to be solitary sometimes--and sometimes sad."

"But you're never sad, Miss Todd."

"Have you never heard there are some animals, that, when they're sick, crawl into holes, and
don't ever show themselves among the other animals? Though it is only the animals that do it,
there's a pride in that which I like. What's the good of complaining if one's down in the mouth?
When one gets old and heavy and stupid, one can't go about as one did when one was young; and
other people won't care to come to you as they did then."

"But I had none of that when I was young, Miss Todd."

"Hadn't you? Then I won't say but what you may be right to try and begin now. But, law! what
am I talking of? I am old enough to be your mother."

"I think it so kind of you to talk to me at all."

"Well, now about Mr Maguire. I don't think he's possessed of much of the fat of the land; but
that you say you know already?"

"Oh yes, I know all that."

"And it seems he has lost his curacy?"

"He threw that up himself."

"I shouldn't be surprised--but mind I don't say this for certain--but I shouldn't be surprised
if he owed a little money."

Miss Mackenzie's face became rather long.

"What do you call a little, Miss Todd?"

"Two or three hundred pounds. I don't call that a great deal."

"Oh dear, no!" and Miss Mackenzie's face again became cheerful. "That could be settled without
any trouble."

"Upon my word you are the most generous woman I ever saw."

"No, I'm not that."

"Or else you must be very much in love?"

"I don't think I am that either, Miss Todd; only I don't care much about money if other things
are suitable. What I chiefly wanted to know was--"

"About that Miss Floss?"

"Yes, Miss Todd."

"My belief is there never was a greater calumny, or what I should call a stronger attempt at
a do. Mind I don't think much of your St Stumfolda, and never did. I believe the poor man has
never said a word to the woman. Mrs Stumfold has put it into her head that she could have Mr
Maguire if she chose to set her cap at him, and, I dare say, Miss Floss has been dutiful to
her saint. But, Miss Mackenzie, if nothing else hinders you, don't let that hinder you." Then
Miss Todd, having done her business and made her report, took her leave.

This was on Saturday. The next day would be Sunday, and then on the following morning she must
make her answer. All that she had heard about Mr Maguire was, to her thinking, in his favour.
As to his poverty, that he had declared himself, and that she did not mind. As to a few hundred
pounds of debt, how was a poor man to have helped such a misfortune? In that matter of Miss
Floss he had been basely maligned,--so much maligned, that Miss Mackenzie owed him all her
sympathy. What excuse could she now have for refusing him?

When she went to bed on the Sunday night such were her thoughts and her feelings.

CHAPTER XIV

Tom Mackenzie's Bed-Side

There was a Stumfoldian edict, ultra-Median-and-Persian in its strictness, ordaining that no
Stumfoldian in Littlebath should be allowed to receive a letter on Sundays. And there also
existed a coordinate rule on the part of the Postmaster-General,--or, rather, a privilege granted
by that functionary,--in accordance with which Stumfoldians, and other such sects of Sabbatarians,
were empowered to prohibit the letter-carriers from contaminating their special knockers on
Sunday mornings. Miss Mackenzie had given way to this easily, seeing nothing amiss in the edict,
and not caring much for her Sunday letters. In consequence, she received on the Monday mornings
those letters which were due to her on Sundays, and on this special Monday morning she received
a letter, as to which the delay was of much consequence. It was to tell her that her brother
Tom was dying, and to pray that she would be up in London as early on the Monday as was practicable.
Mr Samuel Rubb, junior, who had written the letter in Gower Street, had known nothing of the
Sabbatical edicts of the Stumfoldians.

"It is an inward tumour," said Mr Rubb, "and has troubled him long, though he has said nothing
about it. It is now breaking, and the doctor says he can't live. He begs that you will come
to him, as he has very much to say to you. Mrs Tom would have written, but she is so much taken
up, and is so much beside herself, that she begs me to say that she is not able; but I hope
it won't be less welcome coming from me. The second pair back will be ready for you, just as
if it were your own. I would be waiting at the station on Monday, if I knew what train you
would come by."

This she received while at breakfast on the Monday morning, having sat down a little earlier
than usual, in order that the tea-things might be taken away so as to make room for Mr Maguire.

Of course she must go up to town instantly, by the first practicable train. She perceived at
once that she would have to send a message by telegraph, as they would have expected to hear
from her that morning. She got the railway guide, and saw that the early express train had
already gone. There was, however, a mid-day train which would reach Paddington in the afternoon.
She immediately got her bonnet and went off to the telegraph office, leaving word with the
servant, that if any one called "he" was to be told that she had received sudden tidings which
took her up to London. On her return she found that "he" had not been there yet, and now she
could only hope that he would not come till after she had started. It would, of course, be
impossible, at such a moment as this, to make any answer to such a proposition as Mr Maguire's.

He came, and when the servant gave him the message at the door, he sent up craving permission
to see her but for a moment. She could not refuse him, and went down to him in the drawing-room,
with her shawl and bonnet.

"Dearest Margaret," said he, "what is this?" and he took both her hands.

"I have received word that my brother, in London, is very ill,--that he is dying, and I must
go to him."

He still held her hands, standing close to her, as though he had some special right to comfort her.

"Cannot I go with you?" he said. "Let me; do let me."

"Oh, no, Mr Maguire; it is impossible. What could you do? I am going to my brother's house."

"But have I not a right to be of help to you at such a time?" he asked.

"No, Mr Maguire; no right; certainly none as yet."

"Oh! Margaret."

"I'm sure you will see that I cannot talk of anything of that sort now."

"But you will not be back for ever so long."

"I cannot tell."

"Oh! Margaret; you will not leave me in suspense? After bidding me wait a fortnight, you will
not go away without telling me that you will be mine when you come back? One word will do it."

"Mr Maguire, you really must excuse me now."

"One word, Margaret; only one word," and he still held her.

"Mr Maguire," she said, tearing her hand from him, "I am astonished at you. I tell you that
my brother is dying and you hold me here, and expect me to give you an answer about nonsense.
I thought you were more manly."

He saw that there was a flash in her eye as he stepped back; so he begged her pardon, and muttering
something about hoping to hear from her soon, took his leave. Poor man! I do not see why she
should not have accepted him, as she had made up her mind to do so. And to him, with his creditors,
and in his present position, any certainty in this matter would have made so much difference!

At the Paddington station Miss Mackenzie was met by her other lover, Mr Rubb. Mr Rubb, however,
had never yet declared himself as holding this position, and did not do so on the present occasion.
Their conversation in the cab was wholly concerning her brother's state, or nearly so. It seemed
that there was no hope. Mr Rubb said that very clearly. As to time the doctor would say nothing
certain; but he had declared that it might occur any day. The patient could never leave his
bed again; but as his constitution was strong, he might remain in his present condition some
weeks. He did not suffer much pain, or, at any rate, did not complain of much; but was very
sad. Then Mr Rubb said one other word.

"I am afraid he is thinking of his wife and children."

"Would there be nothing for them out of the business?" asked Miss Mackenzie.

The junior partner at first shook his head, saying nothing. After a few minutes he did speak
in a low voice. "If there be anything, it will be very little,--very little."

Miss Mackenzie was rejoiced that she had given no definite promise to Mr Maguire. There seemed
to be now a job for her to do in the world which would render it quite unnecessary that she
should look about for a husband. If her brother's widow were left penniless, with seven children,
there would be no longer much question as to what she would do with her money. Perhaps the
only person in the world that she cordially disliked was her sister-in-law. She certainly knew
no other woman whose society would be so unpalatable to her. But if things were so as Mr Rubb
now described them, there could be no doubt about her duty. It was very well indeed that her
answer to Mr Maguire had been postponed to that Monday.

She found her sister-in-law in the dining-room, and Mrs Mackenzie, of course, received her
with a shower of tears. "I did think you would have come, Margaret, by the first train."

Then Margaret was forced to explain all about the letter and the Sunday arrangements at Littlebath;
and Mrs Tom was stupid and wouldn't understand, but persisted in her grievance, declaring that
Tom was killing himself with disappointment.

"And there's Dr Slumpy just this moment gone without a word to comfort one,--not even to say
about when it will be. I suppose you'll want your dinner before you go up to see him. As for
us we've had no dinners, or anything regular; but, of course, you must be waited on." Miss
Mackenzie simply took off her bonnet and shawl, and declared herself ready to go upstairs as
soon as her brother would be ready to see her.

"It's fret about money has done it all, Margaret," said the wife. "Since the day that Walter's
shocking will was read, he's never been himself for an hour. Of course he wouldn't show it
to you; but he never has."

Margaret turned short round upon her sister-in-law on the stairs.

"Sarah," said she, and then she stopped herself. "Never mind; it is natural, no doubt, you
should feel it; but there are times and places when one's feelings should be kept under control."

"That's mighty fine," said Mrs Mackenzie; "but, however, if you'll wait here, I'll go up to him."

In a few minutes more Miss Mackenzie was standing by her brother's bedside, holding his hand
in hers.

"I knew you would come, Margaret," he said.

"Of course I should come; who doubted it? But never mind that, for here I am."

"I only told her that we expected her by the earlier train," said Mrs Tom.

"Never mind the train as long as she's here," said Tom. "You've heard how it is with me, Margaret?"

Then Margaret buried her face in the bed-clothes and wept, and Mrs Tom, weeping also, hid herself
behind the curtains.

There was nothing said then about money or the troubles of the business, and after a while
the two women went down to tea. In the dining-room they found Mr Rubb, who seemed to be quite
at home in the house. Cold meat was brought up for Margaret's dinner, and they all sat down
to one of those sad sick-house meals which he or she who has not known must have been lucky
indeed. To Margaret it was nothing new. All the life that she remembered, except the last year,
had been spent in nursing her other brother; and now to be employed about the bed-side of a
sufferer was as natural to her as the air she breathed.

"I will sit with him to-night, Sarah, if you will let me," she said; and Sarah assented.

It was still daylight when she found herself at her post. Mrs Mackenzie had just left the room
to go down among the children, saying that she would return again before she left him for the
night. To this the invalid remonstrated, begging his wife to go to bed.

"She has not had her clothes off for the last week," said the husband.

"It don't matter about my clothes," said Mrs Tom, still weeping. She was always crying when
in the sick room, and always scolding when out of it; thus complying with the two different
requisitions of her nature. The matter, however, was settled by an assurance on her part that
she would go to bed, so that she might be stirring early.

There are women who seem to have an absolute pleasure in fixing themselves for business by
the bedside of a sick man. They generally commence their operations by laying aside all fictitious
feminine charms, and by arraying themselves with a rigid, unconventional, unenticing propriety.
Though they are still gentle,--perhaps more gentle than ever in their movements,--there is
a decision in all they do very unlike their usual mode of action. The sick man, who is not
so sick but what he can ponder on the matter, feels himself to be like a baby, whom he has
seen the nurse to take from its cradle, pat on the back, feed, and then return to its little
couch, all without undue violence or tyranny, but still with a certain consciousness of omnipotence
as far as that child was concerned. The vitality of the man is gone from him, and he, in his
prostrate condition, debarred by all the features of his condition from spontaneous exertion,
feels himself to be more a woman than the woman herself. She, if she be such a one as our Miss
Mackenzie, arranges her bottles with precision; knows exactly how to place her chair, her lamp,
and her teapot; settles her cap usefully on her head, and prepares for the night's work certainly
with satisfaction. And such are the best women of the world,--among which number I think that
Miss Mackenzie has a right to be counted.

A few words of affection were spoken between the brother and sister, for at such moments brotherly
affection returns, and the estrangements of life are all forgotten in the old memories. He
seemed comforted to feel her hand upon the bed, and was glad to pronounce her name, and spoke
to her as though she had been the favourite of the family for years, instead of the one member
of it who had been snubbed and disregarded. Poor man, who shall say that there was anything
hypocritical or false in this? And yet, undoubtedly, it was the fact that Margaret was now
the only wealthy one among them, which had made him send to her, and think of her, as he lay
there in his sickness.

When these words of love had been spoken, he turned himself on his pillow, and lay silent for
a long while,--for hours, till the morning sun had risen, and the daylight was again seen through
the window curtain. It was not much after midsummer, and the daylight came to them early. From
time to time she had looked at him, and each hour in the night she had crept round to him,
and given him that which he needed. She did it all with a certain system, noiselessly, but
with an absolute assurance on her own part that she carried with her an authority sufficient
to ensure obedience. On that ground, in that place, I think that even Miss Todd would have
succumbed to her.

But when the morning sun had driven the appearance of night from the room, making the paraphernalia
of sickness more ghastly than they had been under the light of the lamp, the brother turned
himself back again, and began to talk of those things which were weighing on his mind.

"Margaret," he said, "it's very good of you to come, but as to myself, no one's coming can
be of any use to me."

"It is all in the hands of God, Tom."

"No doubt, no doubt," said he, sadly, not daring to argue such a point with her, and yet feeling
but little consolation from her assurance. "So is the bullock in God's hands when the butcher
is going to knock him on the head, but yet we know that the beast will die. Men live and die
from natural causes, and not by God's interposition."

"But there is hope; that is what I mean. If God pleases--"

"Ah, well. But, Margaret, I fear that he will not please; and what am I to do about Sarah and
the children?"

This was a question that could be answered by no general platitude,--by no weak words of hopeless
consolation. Coming from him to her, it demanded either a very substantial answer, or else
no answer at all. What was he to do about Sarah and the children? Perhaps there came a thought
across her mind that Sarah and the children had done very little for her,--had considered her
very little, in those old, weary days, in Arundel Street. And those days were not, as yet,
so very old. It was now not much more than twelve months since she had sat by the deathbed
of her other brother,--since she had expressed to herself, and to Harry Handcock, a humble
wish that she might find herself to be above absolute want.

"I do not think you need fret about that, Tom," she said, after turning these things over in
her mind for a minute or two.

"How, not fret about them? But I suppose you know nothing of the state of the business. Has
Rubb spoken to you?"

"He did say some word as we came along in the cab."

"What did he say?"

"He said--"

"Well, tell me what he said. He said, that if I died--what then? You must not be afraid of
speaking of it openly. Why, Margaret, they have all told me that it must be in a month or two.
What did Rubb say?"

"He said that there would be very little coming out of the business--that is, for Sarah and
the children--if anything were to happen to you."

"I don't suppose they'd get anything. How it has been managed I don't know. I have worked like
a galley slave at it, but I haven't kept the books, and I don't know how things have gone so
badly. They have gone badly,--very badly."

"Has it been Mr Rubb's fault?"

"I won't say that; and, indeed, if it has been any man's fault it has been the old man's. I
don't want to say a word against the one that you know. Oh, Margaret!"

"Don't fret yourself now, Tom."

"If you had seven children, would not you fret yourself? And I hardly know how to speak to
you about it. I know that we have already had ever so much of your money, over two thousand
pounds; and I fear you will never see it again."

"Never mind, Tom; it is yours, with all my heart. Only, Tom, as it is so badly wanted, I would
rather it was yours than Mr Rubb's. Could I not do something that would make that share of
the building yours?"

He shifted himself uneasily in his bed, and made her understand that she had distressed him.

"But perhaps it will be better to say nothing more about that," said she.

"It will be better that you should understand it all. The property belongs nominally to us,
but it is mortgaged to the full of its value. Rubb can explain it all, if he will. Your money
went to buy it, but other creditors would not be satisfied without security. Ah, dear! it is
so dreadful to have to speak of all this in this way."

"Then don't speak of it, Tom."

"But what am I to do?"

"Are there no proceeds from the business?"

"Yes, for those who work in it; and I think there will be something coming out of it for Sarah,--something,
but it will be very small. And if so, she must depend for it solely on Mr Rubb."

"On the young one?"

"Yes; on the one that you know."

There was a great deal more said, and of course everyone will know how such a conversation
was ended, and will understand with what ample assurance as to her own intentions Margaret
promised that the seven children should not want. As she did so, she made certain rapid calculations
in her head. She must give up Mr Maguire. There was no doubt about that. She must give up all
idea of marrying any one, and, as she thought of this, she told herself that she was perhaps
well rid of a trouble. She had already given away to the firm of Rubb and Mackenzie above a
hundred a-year out of her income. If she divided the remainder with Mrs Tom, keeping about
three hundred and fifty pounds a-year for herself and Susanna, she would, she thought, keep
her promise well, and yet retain enough for her own comfort and Susanna's education. It would
be bad for the prospects of young John Ball, the third of the name, whom she had taught herself
to regard as her heir; but young John Ball would know nothing of the good things he had lost.
As to living with her sister-in-law Sarah, and sharing her house and income with the whole
family, that she declared to herself nothing should induce her to do. She would give up half
of all that she had, and that half would be quite enough to save her brother's children from
want. In making the promise to her brother she said nothing about proportions, and nothing
as to her own future life. "What I have," she said, "I will share with them and you may rest
assured that they shall not want." Of course he thanked her as dying men do thank those who
take upon themselves such charges; but she perceived as he did so, or thought that she perceived,
that he still had something more upon his mind.

Mrs Tom came and relieved her in the morning, and Miss Mackenzie was obliged to put off for
a time that panoply of sick-room armour which made her so indomitable in her brother's bedroom.
Downstairs she met Mr Rubb, who talked to her much about her brother's affairs, and much about
the oilcloth business, speaking as though he were desirous that the most absolute confidence
should exist between him and her. But she said no word of her promise to her brother, except
that she declared that the money lent was now to be regarded as a present made by her to him
personally.

"I am afraid that that will avail nothing," said Mr Rubb, junior, "for the amount now stands
as a debt due by the firm to you, and the firm, which would pay you the money if it could,
cannot pay it to your brother's estate any more than it can to yours."

"But the interest," said Miss Mackenzie.

"Oh, yes! the interest can be paid," said Mr Rubb, junior, but the tone of his voice did not
give much promise that this interest would be forthcoming with punctuality.

She watched again that night; and on the next day, in the afternoon, she was told that a gentleman
wished to see her in the drawing-room. Her thoughts at once pointed to Mr Maguire, and she
went downstairs prepared to be very angry with that gentleman. But on entering the room she
found her cousin, John Ball. She was, in truth, glad to see him; for, after all, she thought
that she liked him the best of all the men or women that she knew. He was always in trouble,
but then she fancied that with him she at any rate knew the worst. There was nothing concealed
with him,--nothing to be afraid of. She hoped that they might continue to know each other intimately
as cousins. Under existing circumstances they could not, of course, be anything more to each
other than that.

"This is very kind of you, John," she said, taking his hand. "How did you know I was here?"

"Mr Slow told me. I was with Mr Slow about business of yours. I'm afraid from what I hear that
you find your brother very ill."

"Very ill, indeed, John,--ill to death."

She then asked after her uncle and aunt, and the children, at the Cedars.

They were much as usual, he said; and he added that his mother would be very glad to see her
at the Cedars; only he supposed there was no hope of that.

"Not just at present, John. You see I am wholly occupied here."

"And will he really die, do you think?"

"The doctors say so."

"And his wife and children--will they be provided for?"

Margaret simply shook her head, and John Ball, as he watched her, felt assured that his uncle
Jonathan's money would never come in his way, or in the way of his children. But he was a man
used to disappointment, and he bore this with mild sufferance.

Then he explained to her the business about which he had specially come to her. She had entrusted
him with certain arrangements as to a portion of her property, and he came to tell her that
a certain railway company wanted some houses which belonged to her, and that by Act of Parliament
she was obliged to sell them.

"But the Act of Parliament will make the railway company pay for them, won't it, John?"

Then he went on to explain to her that she was in luck's way, "as usual," said the poor fellow,
thinking of his own misfortunes, and that she would greatly increase her income by the sale.
Indeed, it seemed to her that she would regain pretty nearly all she had lost by the loan to
Rubb and Mackenzie. "How very singular," thought she to herself. Under these circumstances,
it might, after all, be possible that she should marry Mr Maguire, if she wished it.

When Mr Ball had told his business he did not stay much longer. He said no word of his own
hopes, if hopes they could be called any longer. As he left her, he just referred to what had
passed between them. "This is no time, Margaret," said he, "to ask you whether you have changed
your mind?"

"No, John; there are other things to think of now; are there not? And, besides, they will want
here all that I can do for them."

She spoke to him with an express conviction that what was wanted of her by him, as well as
by others, was her money, and it did not occur to him to contradict her.

"He might have asked to see me, I do think," said Mrs Tom, when John Ball was gone. "But there
always was an upsetting pride about those people at the Cedars which I never could endure.
And they are as poor as church mice. When poverty and pride go together I do detest them. I
suppose he came to find out all about us, but I hope you told him nothing."

To all this Miss Mackenzie made no answer at all.

CHAPTER XV

The Tearing of the Verses

Things went on in Gower Street for three or four weeks in the same way, and then Susanna was
fetched home from Littlebath. Miss Mackenzie would have gone down herself but that she was
averse to see Mr Maguire. She therefore kept on her Littlebath lodgings, though Mrs Tom said
much to her of the wasteful extravagance in doing so. It was at last settled that Mr Rubb should
go down to Littlebath and bring Susanna back with him; and this he did, not at all to that
young lady's satisfaction. It was understood that Susanna did not leave the school, at which
she had lately been received as a boarder; but the holidays had come, and it was thought well
that she should see her father. During this time Miss Mackenzie received two letters from Mr
Maguire. In the first he pleaded hard for an answer to his offer. He had, he said, now relinquished
his curacy, having found the interference of that terrible woman to be unendurable. He had
left his curacy, and was at present without employment. Under such circumstances, "his Margaret"
would understand how imperative it was that he should receive an answer. A curacy, or, rather,
a small incumbency, had offered itself among the mines in Cornwall; but he could not think
of accepting this till he should know what "his Margaret" might say to it.

To this Margaret answered most demurely, and perhaps a little slily. She said that her brother's
health and affairs were at present in such a condition as to allow her to think of nothing
else; that she completely understood Mr Maguire's position, and that it was essential that
he should not be kept in suspense. Under these combined circumstances she had no alternative
but to release him from the offer he had made. This she did with the less unwillingness as
it was probable that her pecuniary position would be considerably altered by the change in
her brother's family which they were now expecting almost daily. Then she bade him farewell,
with many expressions of her esteem, and said that she hoped he might be happy among the mines
in Cornwall.

Such was her letter; but it did not satisfy Mr Maguire, and he wrote a second letter. He had
declined, he said, the incumbency among the mines, having heard of something which he thought
would suit him better in Manchester. As to that, there was no immediate hurry, and he proposed
remaining at Littlebath for the next two months, having been asked to undertake temporary duty
in a neighbouring church for that time. By the end of the two months he hoped that "his Margaret"
would be able to give him an answer in a different tone. As to her pecuniary position, he would
leave that, he said, "all to herself."

To this second letter Miss Mackenzie did not find it necessary to send any reply. The domestics
in the Mackenzie family were not at this time numerous, and the poor mother had enough to do
with her family downstairs. No nurse had been hired for the sick man, for nurses cannot be
hired without money, and money with the Tom Mackenzies was scarce. Our Miss Mackenzie would
have hired a nurse, but she thought it better to take the work entirely into her own hands.
She did so, and I think we may say that her brother did not suffer by it. As she sat by his
bedside, night after night, she seemed to feel that she had fallen again into her proper place,
and she looked back upon the year she had spent at Littlebath almost with dismay. Since her
brother's death, three men had offered to marry her, and there was a fourth from whom she had
expected such an offer. She looked upon all this with dismay, and told herself that she was
not fit to sail, under her own guidance, out in the broad sea, amidst such rocks as those.
Was not some humbly feminine employment, such as that in which she was now engaged, better
for her in all ways? Sad as was the present occasion, did she not feel a satisfaction in what
she was doing, and an assurance that she was fit for her position? Had she not always been
ill at ease, and out of her element, while striving at Littlebath to live the life of a lady
of fortune? She told herself that it was so, and that it would be better for her to be a hard-working,
dependent woman, doing some tedious duty day by day, than to live a life of ease which prompted
her to longings for things unfitted to her.

She had brought a little writing-desk with her that she had carried from Arundel Street to
Littlebath, and this she had with her in the sick man's bedroom. Sitting there through the
long hours of night, she would open this and read over and over again those remnants of the
rhymes written in her early days which she had kept when she made her great bonfire. There
had been quires of such verses, but she had destroyed all but a few leaves before she started
for Littlebath. What were left, and were now read, were very sweet to her, and yet she knew
that they were wrong and meaningless. What business had such a one as she to talk of the sphere's
tune and the silvery moon, of bright stars shining and hearts repining? She would not for worlds
have allowed any one to know what a fool she had been--either Mrs Tom, or John Ball, or Mr
Maguire, or Miss Todd. She would have been covered with confusion if her rhymes had fallen
into the hands of any one of them.

And yet she loved them well, as a mother loves her only idiot child. They were her expressions
of the romance and poetry that had been in her; and though the expressions doubtless were poor,
the romance and poetry of her heart had been high and noble. How wrong the world is in connecting
so closely as it does the capacity for feeling and the capacity for expression,--in thinking
that capacity for the one implies capacity for the other, or incapacity for the one incapacity
also for the other; in confusing the technical art of the man who sings with the unselfish
tenderness of the man who feels! But the world does so connect them; and, consequently, those
who express themselves badly are ashamed of their feelings.

She read her poor lines again and again, throwing herself back into the days and thoughts of
former periods, and telling herself that it was all over. She had thought of encouraging love,
and love had come to her in the shape of Mr Maguire, a very strict evangelical clergyman, without
a cure or an income, somewhat in debt, and with, oh! such an eye! She tore the papers, very
gently, into the smallest fragments. She tore them again and again, swearing to herself as
she did so that there should be an end of all that; and, as there was no fire at hand, she
replaced the pieces in her desk. During this ceremony of the tearing she devoted herself to
the duties of a single life, to the drudgeries of ordinary utility, to such works as those
she was now doing. As to any society, wicked or religious,--wicked after the manner of Miss
Todd, or religious after the manner of St Stumfolda,--it should come or not, as circumstances
might direct. She would go no more in search of it. Such were the resolves of a certain night,
during which the ceremony of the tearing took place.

It came to pass at this time that Mr Rubb, junior, visited his dying partner almost daily,
and was always left alone with him for some time. When these visits were made Miss Mackenzie
would descend to the room in which her sister-in-law was sitting, and there would be some conversation
between them about Mr Rubb and his affairs. Much as these two women disliked each other, there
had necessarily arisen between them a certain amount of confidence. Two persons who are much
thrown together, to the exclusion of other society, will tell each other their thoughts, even
though there be no love between them.

"What is he saying to him all these times when he is with him?" said Mrs Tom one morning, when
Miss Mackenzie had come down on the appearance of Mr Rubb in the sick room.

"He is talking about the business, I suppose."

"What good can that do? Tom can't say anything about that, as to how it should be done. He
thinks a great deal about Sam Rubb; but it's more than I do."

"They must necessarily be in each other's confidence, I should say."

"He's not in my confidence. My belief is he's been a deal too clever for Tom; and that he'll
turn out to be too clever--for me, and--my poor orphans." Upon which Mrs Tom put her handkerchief
up to her eyes. "There; he's coming down," continued the wife. "Do you go up now, and make
Tom tell you what it is that Sam Rubb has been saying to him."

Margaret Mackenzie did go up as she heard Mr Rubb close the front door; but she had no such
purpose as that with which her sister-in-law had striven to inspire her. She had no wish to
make the sick man tell her anything that he did not wish to tell. In considering the matter
within her own breast, she owned to herself that she did not expect much from the Rubbs in
aid of the wants of her nephews and nieces; but what would be the use of troubling a dying
man about that? She had agreed with herself to believe that the oilcloth business was a bad
affair, and that it would be well to hope for nothing from it. That her brother to the last
should harass himself about the business was only natural; but there could be no reason why
she should harass him on the same subject. She had recognised the fact that his widow and children
must be supported by her; and had she now been told that the oilcloth factory had been absolutely
abandoned as being worth nothing, it would not have caused her much disappointment. She thought
a great deal more of the railway company that was going to buy her property under such favourable
circumstances.

She was, therefore, much surprised when her brother began about the business as soon as she
had seated herself. I do not know that the reader need be delayed with any of the details that
he gave her, or with the contents of the papers which he showed her. She, however, found herself
compelled to go into the matter, and compelled also to make an endeavour to understand it.
It seemed that everything hung upon Samuel Rubb, junior, except the fact that Samuel Rubb's
father, who now never went near the place, got more than half the net profits; and the further
fact, that the whole thing would come to an end if this payment to old Rubb were stopped.

"Tom," said she, in the middle of it all, when her head was aching with figures, "if it will
comfort you, and enable you to put all these things away, you may know that I will divide everything
I have with Sarah."

He assured her that her kindness did comfort him; but he hoped better than that; he still thought
that something better might be arranged if she would only go on with her task. So she went
on painfully toiling through figures.

"Sam drew them up on purpose for you, yesterday afternoon," said he.

"Who did it?" she asked.

"Samuel Rubb."

He then went on to declare that she might accept all Samuel Rubb's figures as correct.

She was quite willing to accept them, and she strove hard to understand them. It certainly
did seem to her that when her money was borrowed somebody must have known that the promised
security would not be forthcoming; but perhaps that somebody was old Rubb, whom, as she did
not know him, she was quite ready to regard as the villain in the play that was being acted.
Her own money, too, was a thing of the past. That fault, if fault there had been, was condoned;
and she was angry with herself in that she now thought of it again.

"And now," said her brother, as soon as she had put the papers back, and declared that she
understood them. "Now I have something to say to you which I hope you will hear without being
angry." He raised himself on his bed as he said this, doing so with difficulty and pain, and
turning his face upon her so that he could look into her eyes. "If I didn't know that I was
dying I don't think that I could say it to you."

"Say what, Tom?"

She thought of what most terrible thing it might be possible that he should have to communicate.
Could it be that he had got hold, or that Rubb and Mackenzie had got hold, of all her fortune,
and turned it into unprofitable oilcloth? Could they in any way have made her responsible for
their engagements? She wished to trust them; she tried to avoid suspicion; but she feared that
things were amiss.

"Samuel Rubb and I have been talking of it, and he thinks it had better come from me," said
her brother.

"What had better come?" she asked.

"It is his proposition, Margaret." Then she knew all about it, and felt great relief. Then
she knew all about it, and let him go on till he had spoken his speech.

"God knows how far he may be indulging a false hope, or deceiving himself altogether; but he
thinks it possible that you might--might become fond of him. There, Margaret, that's the long
and the short of it. And when I told him that he had better say that himself, he declared that
you would not bring yourself to listen to him while I am lying here dying."

"Of course I would not."

"But, look here, Margaret; I know you would do much to comfort me in my last moments."

"Indeed, I would, Tom."

"I wouldn't ask you to marry a man you didn't like,--not even if it were to do the children
a service; but if that can be got over, the other feeling should not restrain you when it would
be the greatest possible comfort to me."

"But how could it serve you, Tom?"

"If that could be arranged, Rubb would give up to Sarah during his father's life all the proceeds
of the business, after paying the old man. And when he dies, and he is very old now, the five
hundred a-year would be continued to her. Think what that would be, Margaret."

"But, Tom, she shall have what will make her comfortable without waiting for any old man's
death. It shall be quite half of my income. If that is not enough it shall be more. Will not
that do for her?"

Then her brother strove to explain as best he could that the mere money was not all he wanted.
If his sister did not like this man, if she had no wish to become a married woman, of course,
he said, the plan must fall to the ground. But if there was anything in Mr Rubb's belief that
she was not altogether indifferent to him, if such an arrangement could be made palatable to
her, then he would be able to think that he, by the work of his life, had left something behind
him to his wife and family.

"And Sarah would be more comfortable," he pleaded. "Of course, she is grateful to you, as I
am, and as we all are. But given bread is bitter bread, and if she could think it came to her,
of her own right--"

He said ever so much more, but that ever so much more was quite unnecessary. His sister understood
the whole matter. It was desirable that she, by her fortune, should enable the widow and orphans
of her brother to live in comfort; but it was not desirable that this dependence on her should
be plainly recognised. She did not, however, feel herself to be angry or hurt. It would, no
doubt, be better for the family that they should draw their income in an apparently independent
way from their late father's business than that they should owe their support to the charity
of an aunt. But then, how about herself? A month or two ago, before the Maguire feature in
her career had displayed itself so strongly, an overture from Mr Rubb might probably not have
been received with disfavour. But now, while she was as it were half engaged to another man,
she could not entertain such a proposition. Her womanly feeling revolted from it. No doubt
she intended to refuse Mr Maguire. No doubt she had made up her mind to that absolutely, during
the ceremony of tearing up her verses. And she had never had much love for Mr Maguire, and
had felt some--almost some, for Mr Rubb. In either case she was sure that, had she married
the man,--the one man or the other,--she would instantly have become devoted to him. And I,
who chronicle her deeds and endeavour to chronicle her thoughts, feel equally sure that it
would have been so. There was something harsh in it, that Mr Maguire's offer to her should,
though never accepted, debar her from the possibility of marrying Mr Rubb, and thus settling
all the affairs of her family in a way that would have been satisfactory to them and not altogether
unsatisfactory to her; but she was aware that it did so. She felt that it was so, and then
threw herself back for consolation upon the security which would still be hers, and the want
of security which must attach itself to a marriage with Mr Rubb. He might make ducks, and drakes,
and oilcloth of it all; and then there would be nothing left for her, for her sister-in-law,
or for the children.

"May I tell him to speak to yourself?" her brother asked, while she was thinking of all this.

"No, Tom; it would do no good."

"You do not fancy him, then."

"I do not know about fancying; but I think it will be better for me to remain as I am. I would
do anything for you and Sarah, almost anything; but I cannot do that."

"Then I will say nothing further."

"Don't ask me to do that."

And he did not ask her again, but turned his face from her and thought of the bitterness of
his death-bed.

That evening, when she went down to tea, she met Samuel Rubb standing at the drawing-room door.

"There is no one here," he said; "will you mind coming in? Has your brother spoken to you?"

She had followed him into the room, and he had closed the door as he asked the question.

"Yes, he has spoken to me."

She could see that the man was trembling with anxiety and eagerness, and she almost loved him
that he was anxious and eager. Mr Maguire, when he had come a wooing, had not done it badly
altogether, but there had not been so much reality as there was about Sam Rubb while he stood
there shaking, and fearing, and hoping.

"Well," said he, "may I hope--may I think it will be so? may I ask you to be mine?"

He was handsome in her eyes, though perhaps, delicate reader, he would not have been handsome
in yours. She knew that he was not a gentleman; but what did that matter? Neither was her sister-in-law
Sarah a lady. There was not much in that house in Gower Street that was after the manner of
gentlemen and ladies. She was ready to throw all that to the dogs, and would have done so but
for Mr Maguire. She felt that she would like to have allowed herself to love him in spite of
the tearing of the verses. She felt this, and was very angry with Mr Maguire. But the facts
were stern, and there was no hope for her.

"Mr Rubb," she said, "there can be nothing of that kind."

"Can't there really, now?" said he.

She assured him in her strongest language, that there could be nothing of that kind, and then
went down to the dining-room.

He did not venture to follow her, but made his way out of the house without seeing anyone else.

Another fortnight went by, and then, towards the close of September, came the end of all things
in this world for poor Tom Mackenzie. He died in the middle of the night in his wife's arms,
while his sister stood by holding both their hands. Since the day on which he had endeavoured
to arrange a match between his partner and his sister he had spoken no word of business, at
any rate to the latter, and things now stood on that footing which she had then attempted to
give them. We all know how silent on such matters are the voices of all in the bereft household,
from the hour of death till that other hour in which the body is consigned to its kindred dust.
Women make mourning, and men creep about listlessly, but during those few sad days there may
be no talk about money. So it was in Gower Street. The widow, no doubt, thought much of her
bitter state of dependence, thought something, perhaps, of the chance there might be that her
husband's sister would be less good than her word, now that he was gone--meditated with what
amount of submission she must accept the generosity of the woman she had always hated; but
she was still mistress of that house till the undertakers had done their work; and till that
work had been done, she said little of her future plans.

"I'd earn my bread, if I knew how," she began, putting her handkerchief up to her eyes, on
the afternoon of the very day on which he was buried.

"There will be no occasion for that, Sarah," said Miss Mackenzie, "there will be enough for
us all."

"But I would if I knew how. I wouldn't mind what I did; I'd scour floors rather than be dependent,
I've that spirit in me; and I've worked, and moiled, and toiled with those children; so I have."

Miss Mackenzie then told her that she had solemnly promised her brother to divide her income
with his widow, and informed her that she intended to see Mr Slow, the lawyer, on the following
day, with reference to the doing of this.

"If there is anything from the factory, that can be divided too," said Miss Mackenzie.

"But there won't. The Rubbs will take all that; of course they will. And Tom put into it near
upon ten thousand pounds!"

Then she began to cry again, but soon interrupted her tears to ask what was to become of Susanna.
Susanna, who was by, looked anxiously up into her aunt's eyes.

"Susanna and I," said the aunt, "have thrown in our lot together, and we mean to remain so;
don't we, dear?"

"If mamma will let me."

"I'm sure it's very good of you to take one off my hands," said the mother, "for even one will
be felt."

Then came a note to Miss Mackenzie from Lady Ball, asking her to spend a few days at the Cedars
before she returned to Littlebath,--that is, if she did return,--and she consented to do this.
While she was there Mr Slow could prepare the necessary arrangements for the division of the
property, and she could then make up her mind as to the manner and whereabouts of her future
life. She was all at sea again, and knew not how to choose. If she were a Romanist, she would
go into a convent; but Protestant convents she thought were bad, and peculiarly unfitted for
the followers of Mr Stumfold. She had nothing to bind her to any spot, and something to drive
her from every spot of which she knew anything.

Before she went to the Cedars Mr Rubb came to Gower Street and bade her farewell.

"I had allowed myself to hope, Miss Mackenzie," said he, "I had, indeed; I suppose I was very
foolish."

"I don't know as to being foolish, Mr Rubb, unless it was in caring about such a person as me."

"I do care for you, very much; but I suppose I was wrong to think you would put up with such
as I am. Only I did think that perhaps, seeing that we had been partners with your brother
so long-- All the same, I know that the Mackenzies are different from the Rubbs."

"That has nothing to do with it; nothing in the least."

"Hasn't it now? Then, perhaps, Miss Mackenzie, at some future time--"

Miss Mackenzie was obliged to tell him that there could not possibly be any other answer given
to him at any future time than that which she gave him now. He suggested that perhaps he might
be allowed to try again when the first month or two of her grief for her brother should be
over; but she assured him that it would be useless. At the moment of her conference with him,
she did this with all her energy; and then, as soon as she was alone, she asked herself why
she had been so energetical. After all, marriage was an excellent state in which to live. The
romance was doubtless foolish and wrong, and the tearing of the papers had been discreet, yet
there could be no good reason why she should turn her back upon sober wedlock. Nevertheless,
in all her speech to Mr Rubb she did do so. There was something in her position as connected
with Mr Maguire which made her feel that it would be indelicate to entertain another suitor
before that gentleman had received a final answer.

As she went away from Gower Street to the Cedars she thought of this very sadly, and told herself
that she had been like the ass who starved between two bundles of hay, or as the boy who had
fallen between two stools.

CHAPTER XVI

Lady Ball's Grievance

Miss Mackenzie, before she left Gower Street, was forced to make some arrangements as to her
affairs at Littlebath, and these were ultimately settled in a manner that was not altogether
palatable to her. Mr Rubb was again sent down, having Susanna in his charge, and he was empowered
to settle with Miss Mackenzie's landlady and give up the lodgings. There was much that was
disagreeable in this. Miss Mackenzie having just rejected Mr Rubb's suit, did not feel quite
comfortable in giving him a commission to see all her stockings and petticoats packed up and
brought away from the lodgings. Indeed, she could give him no commission of the kind, but intimated
her intention of writing to the lodging-house keeper. He, however, was profuse in his assurances
that nothing should be left behind, and if Miss Mackenzie would tell him anything of the way
in which the things ought to be packed, he would be so happy to attend to her! To him Miss
Mackenzie would give no such instructions, but, doubtless, she gave many to Susanna.

As to Susanna, it was settled that she should remain as a boarder at the Littlebath school,
at any rate for the next half-year. After that there might be great doubt whether her aunt
could bear the expense of maintaining her in such a position.

Miss Mackenzie had reconciled herself to going to the Cedars because she would thus have an
opportunity of seeing her lawyer and arranging about her property, whereas had she been down
at Littlebath there would have been a difficulty. And she wanted some one whom she could trust
to act for her, some one besides the lawyer, and she thought that she could trust her cousin,
John Ball. As to getting away from all her suitors that was impossible. Had she gone to Littlebath
there was one there; had she remained with her sister-in-law, she would have been always near
another; and, on going to the Cedars, she would meet the third. But she could not on that account
absolutely isolate herself from everybody that she knew in the world. And, perhaps, she was
getting somewhat used to her suitors, and less liable than she had been to any fear that they
could force her into action against her own consent. So she went to the Cedars, and, on arriving
there, received from her uncle and aunt but a moderate amount of condolence as to the death
of her brother.

Her first and second days in her aunt's house were very quiet. Nothing was said of John's former
desires, and nothing about her own money or her brother's family. On the morning of the third
day she told her cousin that she would, on the next morning, accompany him to town if he would
allow her. "I am going to Mr Slow's," said she, "and perhaps you could go with me." To this
he assented willingly, and then, after a pause, surmised that her visit must probably have
reference to the sale of her houses to the railway company. "Partly to that," she said, "but
it chiefly concerns arrangements for my brother's family."

To this John Ball said nothing, nor did Lady Ball, who was present, then speak. But Miss Mackenzie
could see that her aunt looked at her cousin, opening her eyes, and expressing concern. John
Ball himself allowed no change to come upon his face, but went on deliberately with his bread
and butter. "I shall be very happy to go with you," he said, "and will either come and call
for you when you have done, or stay with you while you are there, just as you like."

"I particularly want you to stay with me," said she, "and as we go up to town I will tell you
all about it."

She observed that before her cousin left the house on that day, his mother got hold of him
and was alone with him for nearly half an hour. After that, Lady Ball was alone with Sir John,
in his own room, for another half hour. The old baronet had become older, of course, and much
weaker, since his niece had last been at the Cedars, and was now seldom seen about the house
till the afternoon.

Of all the institutions at the Cedars that of the carriage was the most important. Miss Mackenzie
found that the carriage arrangement had been fixed upon a new and more settled basis since
her last visit. Then it used to go out perhaps as often as three times a week. But there did
not appear to be any fixed rule. Like other carriages, it did, to a certain degree, come when
it was wanted. But now there was, as I have said, a settled basis. The carriage came to the
door on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays, exactly at two o'clock, and Sir John with Lady
Ball were driven about till four.

On the first Tuesday of her visit Miss Mackenzie had gone with her uncle and aunt, and even
she had found the pace to be very slow, and the whole affair to be very dull. Her uncle had
once enlivened the thing by asking her whether she had found any lovers since she went to Littlebath,
and this question had perplexed her very much. She could not say that she had found none, and
as she was not prepared to acknowledge that she had found any, she could only sit still and blush.

"Women have plenty of lovers when they have plenty of money," said the baronet.

"I don't believe that Margaret thinks of anything of the kind," said Lady Ball.

After that Margaret determined to have as little to do with the carriage as possible, and on
that evening she learned from her cousin that the horses had been sold to the man who farmed
the land, and were hired every other day for two hours' work.

It was on the Thursday morning that Miss Mackenzie had spoken of going into town on the morrow,
and on that day when her aunt asked her about the driving, she declined.

"I hope that nothing your uncle said on Tuesday annoyed you?"

"Oh dear, no; but if you don't mind it, I'd rather stay at home."

"Of course you shall if you like it," said her aunt; "and by-the-by, as I want to speak to
you, and as we might not find time after coming home, if you don't mind it I'll do it now."

Of course Margaret said that she did not mind it, though in truth she did mind it, and was
afraid of her aunt.

"Well then, Margaret, look here. I want to know something about your brother's affairs. From
what I have heard, I fear they were not very good."

"They were very bad, aunt,--very bad indeed."

"Dear, dear; you don't say so. Sir John always feared that it would be so when Thomas Mackenzie
mixed himself up with those Rubbs. And there has gone half of Jonathan Ball's money,--money
which Sir John made! Well, well!"

Miss Mackenzie had nothing to say to this; and as she had nothing to say to it she sat silent,
making no attempt at any words.

"It does seem hard; don't it, my dear?"

"It wouldn't make any difference to anybody now--to my uncle, I mean, or to John, if the money
was not gone."

"That's quite true; quite true; only it does seem to be a pity. However, that half of Jonathan's
money which you have got, is not lost, and there's some comfort in that."

Miss Mackenzie was not called upon to make any answer to this; for although she had lost a
large sum of money by lending it to her brother, nevertheless she was still possessed of a
larger sum of money than that which her brother Walter had received from Jonathan Ball.

"And what are they going to do, my dear--the children, I mean, and the widow? I suppose there'll
be something for them out of the business?"

"I don't think there'll be anything, aunt. As far as I can understand there will be nothing
certain. They may probably get a hundred and twenty-five pounds a-year." This she named, as
being the interest of the money she had lent--or given.

"A hundred and twenty-five pounds a-year. That isn't much, but it will keep them from absolute
want."

"Would it, aunt?"

"Oh, yes; at least, I suppose so. I hope she's a good manager. She ought to be, for she's a
very disagreeable woman. You told me that yourself, you know."

Then Miss Mackenzie, having considered for one moment, resolved to make a clean breast of it
all, and this she did with the fewest possible words.

"I'm going to divide what I've got with them, and I hope it will make them comfortable."

"What!" exclaimed her aunt.

"I'm going to give Sarah half what I've got, for her and her children. I shall have enough
to live on left."

"Margaret, you don't mean it?"

"Not mean it? why not, aunt? You would not have me let them starve. Besides, I promised my
brother when he was dying."

"Then I must say he was very wrong, very wicked, I may say, to exact any such promise from
you; and no such promise is binding. If you ask Sir John, or your lawyer, they will tell you
so. What! exact a promise from you to the amount of half your income. It was very wrong."

"But, aunt, I should do the same if I had made no promise."

"No, you wouldn't, my dear. Your friends wouldn't let you. And indeed your friends must prevent
it now. They will not hear of such a sacrifice being made."

"But, aunt--"

"Well, my dear."

"It's my own, you know." And Margaret, as she said this, plucked up her courage, and looked
her aunt full in the face.

"Yes, it is your own, by law; but I don't suppose, my dear, that you are of that disposition
or that character that you'd wish to set all the world at defiance, and make everybody belonging
to you feel that you had disgraced yourself."

"Disgraced myself by relieving my brother's family!"

"Disgraced yourself by giving to that woman money that has come to you as your fortune has
come. Think of it, where it came from!"

"It came to me from my brother Walter."

"And where did he get it? And who made it? And don't you know that your brother Tom had his
share of it, and wasted it all? Did it not all come from the Balls? And yet you think so little
of that, that you are going to let that woman rob you of it--rob you and my grandchildren;
for that, I tell you, is the way in which the world will look at it. Perhaps you don't know
it, but all that property was as good as given to John at one time. Who was it first took you
by the hand when you were left all alone in Arundel Street? Oh, Margaret, don't go and be such
an ungrateful, foolish creature!"

Margaret waited for a moment, and then she answered--

"There's nobody so near to me as my own brother's children."

"As to that, Margaret, there isn't much difference in nearness between your uncle and your
nephews and nieces. But there's a right and a wrong in these things, and when money is concerned,
people are not justified in indulging their fancies. Everything here has been told to you.
You know how John is situated with his children. And after what there has been between you
and him, and after what there still might be if you would have it so, I own that I am astonished--fairly
astonished. Indeed, my dear, I can only look on it as simple weakness on your part. It was
but the other day that you told me you had done all that you thought necessary by your brother
in taking Susanna."

"But that was when he was alive, and I thought he was doing well."

"The fact is, you have been there and they've talked you over. It can't be that you love children
that you never saw till the other day; and as for the woman, you always hated her."

"Whether I love her or hate her has nothing to do with it."

"Margaret, will you promise me this, that you will see Mr Slow and talk to him about it before
you do anything?"

"I must see Mr Slow before I can do anything; but whatever he says, I shall do it all the same."

"Will you speak to your uncle?"

"I had rather not."

"You are afraid to tell him of this; but of course he must be told. Will you speak to John?"

"Certainly; I meant to do so going to town to-morrow."

"And if he tells you you are wrong--"

"Aunt, I know I am not wrong. It is nonsense to say that I am wrong in--"

"That's disrespectful, Margaret!"

"I don't want to be disrespectful, aunt; but in such a case as this I know that I have a right
to do what I like with my own money. If I was going to give it away to any other friend, if
I was going to marry, or anything like that,"--she blushed at the remembrance of the iniquities
she had half intended as she said this--"then there might be some reason for you to scold me;
but with a brother and a brother's family it can't be wrong. If you had a brother, and had
been with him when he was dying, and he had left his wife and children looking to you, you
would have done the same."

Upon this Lady Ball got up from her chair and walked to the door. Margaret had been more impetuous
and had answered her with much more confidence than she had expected. She was determined now
to say one more word, but so to say it that it should not be answered--to strike one more blow,
but so to strike it that it should not be returned.

"Margaret," she said, as she stood with the door open in her hands, "if you will reflect where
the money came from, your conscience will tell you without much difficulty where it should
go to. And when you think of your brother's children, whom this time last year you had hardly
seen, think also of John Ball's children, who have welcomed you into this house as their dearest
relative. In one sense, certainly, the money is yours, Margaret; but in another sense, and
that the highest sense, it is not yours to do what you please with it."

Then Lady Ball shut the door rather loudly, and sailed away along the hall. When the passages
were clear, Miss Mackenzie made her way up into her own room, and saw none of the family till
she came down just before dinner.

She sat for a long time in the chair by her bed-side thinking of her position. Was it true
after all that she was bound by a sense of justice to give any of her money to the Balls? It
was true that in one sense it had been taken from them, but she had had nothing to do with
the taking. If her brother Walter had married and had children, then the Balls would have not
expected the money back again. It was ever so many years,--five-and-twenty years, and more
since the legacy had been made by Jonathan Ball to her brother, and it seemed to her that her
aunt had no common sense on her side in the argument. Was it possible that she should allow
her own nephews and nieces to starve while she was rich? She had, moreover, made a promise,--a
promise to one who was now dead, and there was a solemnity in that which carried everything
else before it. Even though the thing might be unjust, still she must do it.

But she was to give only half her fortune to her brother's family; there would still be the
half left for herself, for herself or for these Balls if they wanted it so sorely. She was
beginning to hate her money. It had brought to her nothing but tribulation and disappointment.
Had Walter left her a hundred a year, she would, not having then dreamed of higher things,
have been amply content. Would it not be better that she should take for herself some modest
competence, something on which she might live without trouble to her relatives, without trouble
to her friends she had first said,--but as she did so she told herself with scorn that friends
she had none,--and then let the Balls have what was left her after she had kept her promise
to her brother? Anything would be better than such persecution as that to which her aunt had
subjected her.

At last she made up her mind to speak of it all openly to her cousin. She had an idea that
in such matters men were more trustworthy than women, and perhaps less greedy. Her cousin would,
she thought, be more just to her than her aunt had been. That her aunt had been very unjust,--cruel
and unjust,--she felt assured.

She came down to dinner, and she could see by the manner of them all that the matter had been
discussed since John Ball's return from London. Jack, the eldest son, was not at home, and
the three girls who came next to Jack dined with their father and grandfather. To them Margaret
endeavoured to talk easily, but she failed. They had never been favourites with her as Jack
was, and, on this occasion, she could get very little from them that was satisfactory to her.
John Ball was courteous to her, but he was very silent throughout the whole evening. Her aunt
showed her displeasure by not speaking to her, or speaking barely with a word. Her uncle, of
whose voice she was always in fear, seemed to be more cross, and when he did speak, more sarcastic
than ever. He asked her whether she intended to go back to Littlebath.

"I think not," said she.

"Then that has been a failure, I suppose," said the old man.

"Everything is a failure, I think," said she, with tears in her eyes.

This was in the drawing-room, and immediately her cousin John came and sat by her. He came
and sat there, as though he had intended to speak to her; but he went away again in a minute
or two without having uttered a word. Things went on in the same way till they moved off to
bed, and then the formal adieus for the night were made with a coldness that amounted, on the
part of Lady Ball, almost to inhospitality.

"Good-night, Margaret," she said, as she just put out the tip of her finger.

"Good-night, my dear," said Sir John. "I don't know what's the matter with you, but you look
as though you'd been doing something that you were ashamed of."

Lady Ball was altogether injudicious in her treatment of her niece. As to Sir John, it made
probably very little difference. Miss Mackenzie had perceived, when she first came to the Cedars,
that he was a cross old man, and that he had to be endured as such by any one who chose to
go into that house. But she had depended on Lady Ball for kindness of manner, and had been
tempted to repeat her visits to the house because her aunt had, after her fashion, been gracious
to her. But now there was rising in her breast a feeling that she had better leave the Cedars
as soon as she could shake the dust off her feet, and see nothing more of the Balls. Even the
Rubb connection seemed to her to be better than the Ball connection, and less exaggerated in
its greediness. Were it not for her cousin John, she would have resolved to go on the morrow.
She would have faced the indignation of her aunt, and the cutting taunts of her uncle, and
have taken herself off at once to some lodging in London. But John Ball had meant to be kind
to her when he came and sat close to her on the sofa, and her soft heart relented towards him.

Lady Ball had in truth mistaken her niece's character. She had found her to be unobtrusive,
gentle, and unselfish; and had conceived that she must therefore be weak and compliant. As
to many things she was compliant, and as to some things she was weak; but there was in her
composition a power of resistance and self-sustenance on which Lady Ball had not counted. When
conscious of absolute ill-usage, she could fight well, and would not bow her neck to any Mrs
Stumfold or to any Lady Ball.

CHAPTER XVII

Mr Slow's Chambers

She came down late to breakfast on the following morning, not being present at prayers, and
when she came down she wore a bonnet.

"I got myself ready, John, for fear I should keep you waiting."

Her aunt spoke to her somewhat more graciously than on the preceding evening, and accepted
her apology for being late.

Just as she was about to start Lady Ball took her apart and spoke one word to her.

"No one can tell you better what you ought to do than your cousin John; but pray remember that
he is far too generous to say a word for himself."

Margaret made no answer, and then she and her cousin started on foot across the grounds to
the station. The distance was nearly a mile, and during the walk no word was said between them
about the money. They got into the train that was to take them up to London, and sat opposite
to each other. It happened that there was no passenger in either of the seats next to him or
her, so that there was ample opportunity for them to hold a private conversation; but Mr Ball
said nothing to her, and she, not knowing how to begin, said nothing to him. In this way they
reached the London station at Waterloo Bridge, and then he asked her what she proposed to do next.

"Shall we go to Mr Slow's at once?" she asked.

To this he assented, and at her proposition they agreed to walk to the lawyer's chambers. These
were on the north side of Lincoln's Inn Fields, near the Turnstile, and Mr Ball remarked that
the distance was again not much above a mile. So they crossed the Strand together, and made
their way by narrow streets into Drury Lane, and then under a certain archway into Lincoln's
Inn Fields. To Miss Mackenzie, who felt that something ought to be said, the distance and time
occupied seemed to be very short.

"Why, this is Lincoln's Inn Fields!" she exclaimed, as she came out upon the west side.

"Yes; this is Lincoln's Inn Fields, and Mr Slow's chambers are over there."

She knew very well where Mr Slow's chambers were situated, but she paused on the pavement,
not wishing to go thither quite at once.

"John," she said, "I thought that perhaps we might have talked over all this before we saw
Mr Slow."

"Talked over all what?"

"About the money that I want to give to my brother's family. Did not my aunt tell you of it?"

"Yes; she told me that you and she had differed."

"And she told you what about?"

"Yes," said he, slowly; "she told me what about."

"And what ought I to do, John?"

As she asked the question she caught hold of the lappet of his coat, and looked up into his
face as though supplicating him to give her the advantage of all his discretion and all his
honesty.

They were still standing on the pavement, where the street comes out from under the archway.
She was gazing into his face, and he was looking away from her, over towards the inner railings
of the square, with heavy brow and dull eye and motionless face. She was very eager, and he
seemed to be simply patient, but nevertheless he was working hard with his thoughts, striving
to determine how best he might answer her. His mother had told him that he might model this
woman to his will, and had repeated to him that story which he had heard so often of the wrong
that had been done to him by his uncle Jonathan. It may be said that there was no need for
such repetition, as John Ball had himself always thought quite enough of that injury. He had
thought of it for the last twenty years, almost hourly, till it was graven upon his very soul.
He had been a ruined, wretched, moody man, because of his uncle Jonathan's will. There was
no need, one would have said, to have stirred him on that subject. But his mother, on this
morning, in the ten minutes before prayer-time, had told him of it all again, and had told
him also that the last vestige of his uncle's money would now disappear from him unless he
interfered to save it.

"On this very day it must be saved; and she will do anything you tell her," said his mother.
"She regards you more than anyone else. If you were to ask her again now, I believe she would
accept you this very day. At any rate, do not let those people have the money."

And yet he had not spoken to Margaret on the subject during the journey, and would now have
taken her to the lawyer's chambers without a word, had she not interrupted him and stopped him.

Nevertheless he had been thinking of his uncle, and his uncle's will, and his uncle's money,
throughout the morning. He was thinking of it at that moment when she stopped him--thinking
how hard it all was, how cruel that those people in the New Road should have had and spent
half his uncle's fortune, and that now the remainder, which at one time had seemed to be near
the reach of his own children, should also go to atone for the negligence and fraud of those
wretched Rubbs.

We all know with how strong a bias we regard our own side of any question, and he regarded
his side in this question with a very strong bias. Nevertheless he had refrained from a word,
and would have refrained, had she not stopped him.

When she took hold of him by the coat, he looked for a moment into her face, and thought that
in its trouble it was very sweet. She leaned somewhat against him as she spoke, and he wished
that she would lean against him altogether. There was about her a quiet power of endurance,
and at the same time a comeliness and a womanly softness which seemed to fit her altogether
for his wants and wishes. As he looked with his dull face across into the square, no physiognomist
would have declared of him that at that moment he was suffering from love, or thinking of a
woman that was dear to him. But it was so with him, and the physiognomist, had one been there,
would have been wrong. She had now asked him a question, which he was bound to answer in some
way:--"What ought I to do, John?"

He turned slowly round and walked with her, away from their destination, round by the south
side of the square, and then up along the blank wall on the east side, nearly to the passage
into Holborn, and back again all round the enclosed space. She, while she was speaking to him
and listening to him, hardly remembered where she was or whither she was going.

"I thought," said he, in answer to her question, "that you intended to ask Mr Slow's advice?"

"I didn't mean to do more than tell him what should be done. He is not a friend, you know, John."

"It's customary to ask lawyers their advice on such subjects."

"I'd rather have yours, John. But, in truth, what I want you to say is, that I am right in
doing this,--right in keeping my promise to my brother, and providing for his children."

"Like most people, Margaret, you want to be advised to follow your own counsel."

"God knows that I want to do right, John. I want to do nothing else, John, but what's right.
As to this money, I care but little for it for myself."

"It is your own, and you have a right to enjoy it."

"I don't know much about enjoyment. As to enjoyment, it seems to me to be pretty much the same
whether a person is rich or poor. I always used to hear that money brought care, and I'm sure
I've found it so since I had any."

"You've got no children, Margaret."

"No; but there are all those orphans. Am I not bound to look upon them as mine, now that he
has gone? If they don't depend on me, whom are they to depend on?"

"If your mind is made up, Margaret, I have nothing to say against it. You know what my wishes
are. They are just the same now as when you were last with us. It isn't only for the money
I say this, though, of course, that must go a long way with a man circumstanced as I am; but,
Margaret, I love you dearly, and if you can make up your mind to be my wife, I would do my
best to make you happy."

"I hadn't meant you to talk in that way, John," said Margaret.

But she was not much flurried. She was now so used to these overtures that they did not come
to her as much out of the common way. And she gave herself none of that personal credit which
women are apt to take to themselves when they find they are often sought in marriage. She looked
upon her lovers as so many men to whom her income would be convenient, and felt herself to
be almost under an obligation to them for their willingness to put up with the incumbrance
which was attached to it.

"But it's the only way I can talk when you ask me about this," said he. Then he paused for
a moment before he added, "How much is it you wish to give to your brother's widow?"

"Half what I've got left."

"Got left! You haven't lost any of your money have you, Margaret?"

Then she explained to him the facts as to the loan, and took care to explain to him also, very
fully, the compensatory fact of the purchase by the railway company. "And my promise to him
was made after I had lent it, you know," she urged.

"I do think it ought to be deducted; I do indeed," he said. "I am not speaking on my own behalf
now, as for the sake of my children, but simply as a man of business. As for myself, though
I do think I have been hardly used in the matter of my uncle's money, I'll try to forget it.
I'll try at any rate to do without it. When I first knew you, and found--found that I liked
you so much, I own that I did have hopes. But if it must be, there shall be an end of that.
The children don't starve, I suppose."

"Oh, John!"

"As for me, I won't hanker after your money. But, for your own sake, Margaret--"

"There will be more than enough for me, you know; and, John--"

She was going to make him some promise; to tell him something of her intention towards his
son, and to make some tender of assistance to himself; being now in that mind to live on the
smallest possible pittance, of which I have before spoken, when he ceased speaking or listening,
and hurried her on to the attorney's chambers.

"Do what you like with it. It is your own," said he. "And we shall do no good by talking about
it any longer out here."

So at last they made their way up to Mr Slow's rooms, on the first floor in the old house in
Lincoln's Inn Fields, and were informed that that gentleman was at home. Would they be pleased
to sit down in the waiting-room?

There is, I think, no sadder place in the world than the waiting-room attached to an attorney's
chambers in London. In this instance it was a three-cornered room, which had got itself wedged
in between the house which fronted to Lincoln's Inn Fields, and some buildings in a narrow
lane that ran at the back of the row. There was no carpet in it, and hardly any need of one,
as the greater part of the floor was strewed with bundles of dusty papers. There was a window
in it, which looked out from the point of the further angle against the wall of the opposite
building. The dreariness of this aspect had been thought to be too much for the minds of those
who waited, and therefore the bottom panes had been clouded, so that there was in fact no power
of looking out at all. Over the fireplace there was a table of descents and relationship, showing
how heirship went; and the table was very complicated, describing not only the heirship of
ordinary real and personal property, but also explaining the wonderful difficulties of gavelkind,
and other mysteriously traditional laws. But the table was as dirty as it was complicated,
and the ordinary waiting reader could make nothing of it. There was a small table in the room,
near the window, which was always covered with loose papers; but these loose papers were on
this occasion again covered with sheets of parchment, and a pale-faced man, of about thirty,
whose beard had never yet attained power to do more than sprout, was sitting at the table,
and poring over the parchments. Round the room, on shelves, there was a variety of iron boxes,
on which were written the names of Mr Slow's clients,--of those clients whose property justified
them in having special boxes of their own. But these boxes were there, it must be supposed,
for temporary purposes,--purposes which might be described as almost permanently temporary,--for
those boxes which were allowed to exist in absolute permanence of retirement, were kept in
an iron room downstairs, the trap-door into which had yawned upon Miss Mackenzie as she was
shown into the waiting-room. There was, however, one such box open, on the middle of the floor,
and sundry of the parchments which had been taken from it were lying around it.

There were but two chairs in the room besides the one occupied by the man at the table, and
these were taken by John Ball and his cousin. She sat herself down, armed with patience, indifferent
to the delay and indifferent to the dusty ugliness of everything around her, as women are on
such occasions. He, thinking much of his time, and somewhat annoyed at being called upon to
wait, sat with his chin resting on his umbrella between his legs, and as he did so he allowed
his eyes to roam around among the names upon the boxes. There was nothing on any one of those
up on the shelves that attracted him. There was the Marquis of B----, and Sir C. D----, and
the Dowager Countess of E----. Seeing this, he speculated mildly whether Mr Slow put forward
the boxes of his aristocratic customers to show how well he was doing in the world. But presently
his eye fell from the shelf and settled upon the box on the floor. There, on that box, he saw
the name of Walter Mackenzie.

This did not astonish him, as he immediately said to himself that these papers were being searched
with reference to the business on which his cousin was there that day; bur suddenly it occurred
to him that Margaret had given him to understand that Mr Slow did not expect her. He stepped
over to her, therefore, one step over the papers, and asked her the question, whispering it
into her ear.

"No," said she, "I had no appointment. I don't think he expects me."

He returned to his seat, and again sitting down with his chin on the top of his umbrella, surveyed
the parchments that lay upon the ground. Upon one of them, that was not far from his feet,
he read the outer endorsements written as such endorsements always are, in almost illegible
old English letters--

"Jonathan Ball, to John Ball, junior--Deed of Gift."

But, after all, there was nothing more than a coincidence in this. Of course Mr Slow would
have in his possession all the papers appertaining to the transfer of Jonathan Ball's property
to the Mackenzies; or, at any rate, such as referred to Walter's share of it. Indeed, Mr Slow,
at the time of Jonathan Ball's death, acted for the two brothers, and it was probable that
all the papers would be with him. John Ball had known that there had been some intention on
his uncle's part, before the quarrel between his father and his uncle, to make over to him,
on his coming of age, a certain property in London, and he had been told that the money which
the Mackenzies had inherited had ultimately come from this very property. His uncle had been
an eccentric, quarrelsome man, prone to change his mind often, and not regardful of money as
far as he himself was concerned. John Ball remembered to have heard that his uncle had intended
him to become possessed of certain property in his own right the day that he became of age,
and that this had all been changed because of the quarrel which had taken place between his
uncle and his father. His father now never spoke of this, and for many years past had seldom
mentioned it. But from his mother he had often heard of the special injury which he had undergone.

"His uncle," she had said, "had given it, and had taken it back again,--had taken it back that
he might waste it on those Mackenzies."

All this he had heard very often, but he had never known anything of a deed of gift. Was it
not singular, he thought, that the draft of such a deed should be lying at his foot at this moment.

He showed nothing of this in his face, and still sat there with his chin resting on his umbrella.
But certainly stronger ideas than usual of the great wrongs which he had suffered did come
into his head as he looked upon the paper at his feet. He began to wonder whether he would
be justified in taking it up and inspecting it. But as he was thinking of this the pale-faced
man rose from his chair, and after moving among the papers on the ground for an instant, selected
this very document, and carried it with him to his table. Mr Ball, as his eyes followed the
parchment, watched the young man dust it and open it, and then having flattened it with his
hand, glance over it till he came to a certain spot. The pale-faced clerk, accustomed to such
documents, glanced over the ambages, the "whereases," the "aforesaids," the rich exuberance
of "admors.," "exors.," and "assigns," till he deftly came to the pith of the matter, and then
he began to make extracts, a date here and a date there. John Ball watched him all the time,
till the door was opened, and old Mr Slow himself appeared in the room.

He stepped across the papers to shake hands with his client, and then shook hands also with
Mr Ball, whom he knew. His eye glanced at once down to the box, and after that over towards
the pale-faced clerk. Mr Ball perceived that the attorney had joined in his own mind the operation
that was going on with these special documents, and the presence of these two special visitors;
and that he, in some measure, regretted the coincidence. There was something wrong, and John
Ball began to consider whether the old lawyer could be an old scoundrel. Some lawyers, he knew,
were desperate scoundrels. He said nothing, however; but, obeying Mr Slow's invitation, followed
him and his cousin into the sanctum sanctorum of the chambers.

"They didn't tell me you were here at first," said the lawyer, in a tone of vexation, "or I
wouldn't have had you shown in there."

John Ball thought that this was, doubtless, true, and that very probably they might not have
been put in among those papers had Mr Slow known what was being done.

"The truth is," continued the lawyer, "the Duke of F----'s man of business was with me, and
they did not like to interrupt me."

Mr Slow was a grey-haired old man, nearer eighty than seventy, who, with the exception of a
fortnight's holiday every year which he always spent at Margate, had attended those same chambers
in Lincoln's Inn Fields daily for the last sixty years. He was a stout, thickset man, very
leisurely in all his motions, who walked slowly, talked slowly, read slowly, wrote slowly,
and thought slowly; but who, nevertheless, had the reputation of doing a great deal of business,
and doing it very well. He had a partner in the business, almost as old as himself, named Bideawhile;
and they who knew them both used to speculate which of the two was the most leisurely. It was,
however, generally felt that, though Mr Slow was the slowest in his speech, Mr Bideawhile was
the longest in getting anything said. Mr Slow would often beguile his time with unnecessary
remarks; but Mr Bideawhile was so constant in beguiling his time, that men wondered how, in
truth, he ever did anything at all. Of both of them it may be said that no men stood higher
in their profession, and that Mr Ball's suspicions, had they been known in the neighbourhood
of Lincoln's Inn, would have been scouted as utterly baseless. And, for the comfort of my readers,
let me assure them that they were utterly baseless. There might, perhaps, have been a little
vanity about Mr Slow as to the names of his aristocratic clients; but he was an honest, painstaking
man, who had ever done his duty well by those who had employed him.

Is it not remarkable that the common repute which we all give to attorneys in the general is
exactly opposite to that which every man gives to his own attorney in particular? Whom does
anybody trust so implicitly as he trusts his own attorney? And yet is it not the case that
the body of attorneys is supposed to be the most roguish body in existence?

The old man seemed now to be a little fretful, and said something more about his sorrow at
their having been sent into that room.

"We are so crowded," he said, "that we hardly know how to stir ourselves."

Miss Mackenzie said it did not signify in the least. Mr Ball said nothing, but seated himself
with his chin again resting on his umbrella.

"I was so sorry to see in the papers an account of your brother's death," said Mr Slow.

"Yes, Mr Slow; he has gone, and left a wife and very large family."

"I hope they are provided for, Miss Mackenzie."

"No, indeed; they are not provided for at all. My brother had not been fortunate in business."

"And yet he went into it with a large capital,--with a large capital in such a business as that."

John Ball, with his chin on the umbrella, said nothing. He said nothing, but he winced as he
thought whence the capital had come. And he thought, too, of those much-meaning words: "Jonathan
Ball to John Ball, junior--Deed of gift."

"He had been unfortunate," said Miss Mackenzie, in an apologetic tone.

"And what will you do about your loan?" said Mr Slow, looking over to John Ball when he asked
the question, as though inquiring whether all Miss Mackenzie's affairs were to be talked over
openly in the presence of that gentleman.

"That was a gift," said Miss Mackenzie.

"A deed of gift," thought John Ball to himself. "A deed of gift!"

"Oh, indeed! Then there's an end of that, I suppose," said Mr Slow.

"Exactly so. I have been explaining to my cousin all about it. I hope the firm will be able
to pay my sister-in-law the interest on it, but that does not seem sure."

"I am afraid I cannot help you there, Miss Mackenzie."

"Of course not. I was not thinking of it. But what I've come about is this." Then she told
Mr Slow the whole of her project with reference to her fortune; how, on his death-bed, she
had promised to give half of all that she had to her brother's wife and family, and how she
had come there to him, with her cousin, in order that he might put her in the way of keeping
her promise.

Mr Slow sat in silence and patiently heard her to the end. She, finding herself thus encouraged
to speak, expatiated on the solemnity of her promise, and declared that she could not be comfortable
till she had done all that she had undertaken to perform. "And I shall have quite enough for
myself afterwards, Mr Slow, quite enough."

Mr Slow did not say a word till she had done, and even then he seemed to delay his speech.
John Ball never raised his face from his umbrella, but sat looking at the lawyer, whom he still
suspected of roguery. And if the lawyer were a rogue, what then about his cousin? It must not
be supposed that he suspected her; but what would come of her, if the fortune she held were,
in truth, not her own?

"I have told my cousin all about it," continued Margaret, "and I believe that he thinks I am
doing right. At any rate, I would do nothing without his knowing it."

"I think she is giving her sister-in-law too much," said John Ball.

"I am only doing what I promised," urged Margaret.

"I think that the money which she lent to the firm should, at any rate, be deducted," said
John Ball, speaking this with a kind of proviso to himself, that the words so spoken were intended
to be taken as having any meaning only on the presumption that that document which he had seen
in the other room should turn out to be wholly inoperative and inefficient at the present moment.
In answer to these side-questions or corollary points as to the deduction or non-deduction
of the loan, Mr Slow answered not a word; but when there was silence between them, he did make
answer as to the original proposition.

"Miss Mackenzie," he said, "I think you had better postpone doing anything in this matter for
the present."

"Why postpone it?" said she.

"Your brother's death is very recent. It happened not above a fortnight since, I think."

"And I want to have this settled at once, so that there shall be no distress. What's the good
of waiting?"

"Such things want thinking of, Miss Mackenzie."

"But I have thought of it. All I want now is to have it done."

A slight smile came across the puckered grey face of the lawyer as he felt the imperative nature
of the instruction given to him. The lady had come there not to be advised, but to have her
work done for her out of hand. But the smile was very melancholy, and soon passed away.

"Is the widow in immediate distress?" asked Mr Slow.

Now the fact was that Miss Mackenzie herself had been in good funds, having had ready money
in her hands from the time of her brother Walter's death; and for the last year she had by
no means spent her full income. She had, therefore, given her sister-in-law money, and had
paid the small debts which had come in, as such small debts will come in, directly the dead
man's body was under ground. Nay, some had come in and had been paid while the man was yet
dying. She exclaimed, therefore, that her sister-in-law was not absolutely in immediate want.

"And does she keep the house?" asked the lawyer.

Then Miss Mackenzie explained that Mrs Tom intended, if possible, to keep the house, and to
take some lady in to lodge with her.

"Then there cannot be any immediate hurry," urged the lawyer; "and as the sum of money in question
is large, I really think the matter should be considered."

But Miss Mackenzie still pressed it. She was very anxious to make him understand--and of course
he did understand at once--that she had no wish to hurry him in his work. All that she required
of him was an assurance that he accepted her instructions, and that the thing should be done
with not more than the ordinary amount of legal delay.

"You can pay her what you like out of your own income," said the lawyer.

"But that is not what I promised," said Margaret Mackenzie.

Then there was silence among them all. Mr Ball had said very little since he had been sitting
in that room, and now it was not he who broke the silence. He was still thinking of that deed
of gift, and wondering whether it had anything to do with Mr Slow's unwillingness to undertake
the commission which Margaret wished to give him. At last Mr Slow got up from his chair, and
spoke as follows:

"Mr Ball, I hope you will excuse me; but I have a word or two to say to Miss Mackenzie, which
I had rather say to her alone."

"Certainly," said Mr Ball, rising and preparing to go.

"You will wait for me, John," said Miss Mackenzie, asking this favour of him as though she
were very anxious that he should grant it.

Mr Slow said that he might be closeted with Miss Mackenzie for some little time, perhaps for
a quarter of an hour or twenty minutes. John Ball looked at his watch, and then at his cousin's
face, and then promised that he would wait. Mr Slow himself took him into the outer office,
and then handed him a chair; but he observed that he was not allowed to go back into the waiting-room.

There he waited for three-quarters of an hour, constantly looking at his watch, and thinking
more and more about that deed of gift. Surely it must be the case that the document which he
had seen had some reference to this great delay. At last he heard a door open, and a step along
a passage, and then another door was opened, and Mr Slow reappeared with Margaret Mackenzie
behind him. John Ball's eyes immediately fell on his cousin's face, and he could see that it
was very pale. The lawyer's wore that smile which men put on when they wish to cover the disagreeable
seriousness of the moment.

"Good morning, Miss Mackenzie," said he, pressing his client's hand.

"Good morning, sir," said she.

The lawyer and Mr Ball then touched each other's hands, and the former followed his cousin
down the steps out into the square.

CHAPTER XVIII

Tribulation

When they were once more out in the square, side by side, Miss Mackenzie took hold of her cousin's
arm and walked on for a few steps in silence, in the direction of Great Queen Street--that
is to say, away from the city, towards which she knew her cousin would go in pursuit of his
own business. And indeed the hour was now close at hand in which he should be sitting as a
director at the Shadrach Fire Assurance Office. If not at the Shadrach by two, or, with all
possible allowance for the shortcoming of a generally punctual director, by a quarter past
two, he would be too late for his guinea; and now, as he looked at his watch, it wanted only
ten minutes to two. He was very particular about these guineas, and the chambers of the Shadrach
were away in Old Broad Street. Nevertheless he walked on with her.

"John," she said, when they had walked half the length of that side of the square, "I have
heard dreadful news."

Then that deed of gift was, after all, a fact; and Mr Slow, instead of being a rogue, must
be the honestest old lawyer in London! He must have been at work in discovering the wrong that
had been done, and was now about to reveal it to the world. Some such idea as this had glimmered
across Mr Ball's mind as he had sat in Mr Slow's outer office, with his chin still resting
on his umbrella.

But though some such idea as this did cross his mind, his thought on the instant was of his cousin.

"What dreadful news, Margaret?"

"It is about my money."

"Stop a moment, Margaret. Are you sure that you ought to tell it to me?"

"If I don't, to whom shall I tell it? And how can I bear it without telling it to some one?"

"Did Mr Slow bid you speak of it to me?"

"No; he bade me think much of it before I did so, as you are concerned. And he said that you
might perhaps be disappointed."

Then they walked on again in silence. John Ball found his position to be very difficult, and
hardly knew how to speak to her, or how to carry himself. If it was to be that this money was
to come back to him; if it was his now in spite of all that had come and gone; if the wrong
done was to be righted, and the property wrested from him was to be restored,--restored to
him who wanted it so sorely,--how could he not triumph in such an act of tardy restitution?
He remembered all the particulars at this moment. Twelve thousand pounds of his uncle Jonathan's
money had gone to Walter Mackenzie. The sum once intended for him had been much more than that,--more
he believed than double that; but if twelve thousand pounds was now restored to him, how different
would it make the whole tenor of his life; Mr Slow said that he might be disappointed; but
then Mr Slow was not his lawyer. Did he not owe it to his family immediately to go to his own
attorney? Now he thought no more of his guinea at the Shadrach, but walked on by his cousin's
side with his mind intently fixed on his uncle's money. She was still leaning on his arm.

"Tell me, John, what shall I do?" said she, looking up into his face.

Would it not be better for them, better for the interests of them both, that they should be
separated? Was it probable, or possible, that with interests so adverse, they should give each
other good advice? Did it not behove him to explain to her that till this should be settled
between them, they must necessarily regard each other as enemies? For a moment or two he wished
himself away from her, and was calculating how he might escape. But then, when he looked down
at her, and saw the softness of her eye, and felt the confidence implied in the weight of her
hand upon his arm, his hard heart was softened, and he relented.

"It is difficult to tell you what you should do," he said. "At present nothing seems to be
known. He has said nothing for certain."

"But I could understand him," she said, in reply; "I could see by his face, and I knew by the
tone of his voice, that he was almost certain. I know that he is sure of it. John, I shall
be a beggar, an absolute beggar! I shall have nothing; and those poor children will be beggars,
and their mother. I feel as though I did not know where I am, or what I am doing."

Then an idea came into his head. If this money was not hers, it was his. If it was not his,
then it was hers. Would it not be well that they should solve all the difficulty by agreeing
then and there to be man and wife? It was true that since his Rachel's death he had seen no
woman whom he so much coveted to have in his home as this one who now leaned on his arm. But,
as he thought of it, there seemed to be a romance about such a step which would not befit him.
What would his mother and father say to him if, after all his troubles, he was at last to marry
a woman without a farthing? And then, too, would she consent to give up all further consideration
for her brother's family? Would she agree to abandon her idea of assisting them, if ultimately
it should turn out that the property was hers? No; there was certainly a looseness about such
a plan which did not befit him; and, moreover, were he to attempt it, he would probably not
succeed.

But something must be done, now at this moment. The guinea at the Shadrach was gone for ever,
and therefore he could devote himself for the day to his cousin.

"Are you to hear again from Mr Slow?" he said.

"I am to go to him this day week."

"And then it will be decided?"

"John, it is decided now; I am sure of it. I feel that it is all gone. A careful man like that
would never have spoken as he did, unless he was sure. It will be all yours, John."

"So would have been that which your brother had," said he.

"I suppose so. It is dreadful to think of; very dreadful. I can only promise that I will spend
nothing till it is decided. John, I wish you would take from me what I have, lest it should
go." And she absolutely had her hand upon her purse in her pocket.

"No," said he slowly, "no; you need think of nothing of that sort."

"But what am I to do? Where am I to go while this week passes by?"

"You will stay where you are, of course."

"Oh John! if you could understand! How am I to look my aunt in the face. Don't you know that
she would not wish to have me there at all if I was a poor creature without anything?" The
poor creature did not know herself how terribly heavy was the accusation she was bringing against
her aunt. "And what will she say when she knows that the money I have spent has never really
been my own?"

Then he counselled her to say nothing about it to her aunt till after her next visit to Mr
Slow's and made her understand that he, himself, would not mention the subject at the Cedars
till the week was passed. He should go, he said, to his own lawyer, and tell him the whole
story as far as he knew it. It was not that he in the least doubted Mr Slow's honesty or judgment,
but it would be better that the two should act together. Then when the week was over, he and
Margaret would once more go to Lincoln's Inn Fields.

"What a week I shall have!" said she.

"It will be a nervous time for us both," he answered.

"And what must I do after that?" This question she asked, not in the least as desirous of obtaining
from him any assurance of assistance, but in the agony of her spirit, and in sheer dismay as
to her prospects.

"We must hope for the best," he said. "God tempers the wind to the shorn lamb." He had often
thought of the way in which he had been shorn, but he did not, at this moment, remember that
the shearing had never been so tempered as to be acceptable to his own feelings.

"And in God only can I trust," she answered. As she said this, her mind went away to Littlebath,
and the Stumfoldians, and Mr Maguire. Was there not great mercy in the fact, that this ruin
had not found her married to that unfortunate clergyman? And what would they all say at Littlebath
when they heard the story? How would Mrs Stumfold exult over the downfall of the woman who
had rebelled against her! how would the nose of the coachmaker's wife rise in the air! and
how would Mr Maguire rejoice that this great calamity had not fallen upon him! Margaret Mackenzie's
heart and spirit had been sullied by no mean feeling with reference to her own wealth. It had
never puffed her up with exultation. But she calculated on the meanness of others, as though
it was a matter of course, not, indeed, knowing that it was meanness, or blaming them in any
way for that which she attributed to them. Four gentlemen had wished to marry her during the
past year. It never occurred to her now, that any one of these four would on that account hold
out a hand to help her. In losing her money she would have lost all that was desirable in their
eyes, and this seemed to her to be natural.

They were still walking round Lincoln's Inn Fields. "John," she exclaimed suddenly, "I must
go to them in Gower Street."

"What, now, to-day?"

"Yes, now, immediately. You need not mind me; I can get back to Twickenham by myself. I know
the trains."

"If I were you, Margaret, I would not go till all this is decided."

"It is decided, John; I know it is. And how can I leave them in such a condition, spending
money which they will never get? They must know it some time, and the sooner the better. Mr
Rubb must know it too. He must understand that he is more than ever bound to provide them with
an income out of the business."

"I would not do it to-day if I were you."

"But I must, John; this very day. If I am not home by dinner, tell them that I had to go to
Gower Street. I shall at any rate be there in the evening. Do not you mind coming back with me."

They were then at the gate leading into the New Square, and she turned abruptly round, and
hurried away from him up into Holborn, passing very near to Mr Slow's chambers. John Ball did
not attempt to follow her, but stood there awhile looking after her. He felt, in his heart,
and knew by his judgment, that she was a good woman, true, unselfish, full of love, clever
too in her way, quick in apprehension, and endowed with an admirable courage. He had heard
her spoken of at the Cedars as a poor creature who had money. Nay, he himself had taken a part
in so speaking of her. Now she had no money, but he knew well that she was a creature the very
reverse of poor. What should he do for her? In what way should he himself behave towards her?
In the early days of his youth, before the cares of the world had made him hard, he had married
his Rachel without a penny, and his father had laughed at him, and his mother had grieved over
him. Tough and hard, and careworn as he was now, defiled by the price of stocks, and saturated
with the poison of the money market, then there had been in him a touch of romance and a dash
of poetry, and he had been happy with his Rachel. Should he try it again now? The woman would
surely love him when she found that he came to her in her poverty as he had before come to
her in her wealth. He watched her till she passed out of his sight along the wall leading to
Holborn, and then he made his way to the City through Lincoln's Inn and Chancery Lane.

Margaret walked straight into Holborn, and over it towards Red Lion Square. She crossed the
line of the omnibuses, feeling that now she must spend no penny which she could save. She was
tired, for she had already walked much that morning, and the day was close and hot; but nevertheless
she went on quickly, through Bloomsbury Square and Russell Square, to Gower Street. As she
got near to the door her heart almost failed her; but she went up to it and knocked boldly.
The thing should be done, let the pain of doing it be what it might.

"Laws, Miss Margaret! is that you?" said the maid. "Yes, missus is at home. She'll see you,
of course, but she's hard at work on the furniture."

Then she went directly up into the drawing-room and there she found her sister-in-law, with
her dress tucked up to her elbows, with a cloth in her hand, rubbing the chairs.

"What, Margaret! Whoever expected to see you? If we are to let the rooms, it's as well to have
the things tidy, isn't it? Besides, a person bears it all the better when there's anything to do."

Then Mary Jane, the eldest daughter, came in from the bedroom behind the drawing-room, similarly
armed for work.

Margaret sat down wearily upon the sofa, having muttered some word in answer to Mrs Tom's apology
for having been found at work so soon after her husband's death.

"Sarah," she said, "I have come to you to-day because I had something to say to you about business."

"Oh, to be sure! I never thought for a moment you had come for pleasure, or out of civility,
as it might be. Of course I didn't expect that when I saw you."

"Sarah, will you come upstairs with me into your own room?"

"Upstairs, Margaret? Oh yes, if you please. We shall be down directly, my dear, and I dare
say Margaret will stay to tea. We tea early, because, since you went, we have dined at one."

Then Mrs Tom led the way up to the room in which Margaret had watched by her dying brother's
bed-side.

"I'm come in here," said Mrs Tom, again apologising, "because the children had to come out
of the room behind the drawing-room. Miss Colza is staying with us, and she and Mary Jane have
your room."

Margaret did not care much for all this; but the solemnity of the chamber in which, when she
last saw it, her brother's body was lying, added something to her sadness at the moment.

"Sarah," she said, endeavouring to warn her sister-in-law by the tone of her voice that her
news was bad news, "I have just come from Mr Slow."

"He's the lawyer, isn't he?"

"Yes, he's the lawyer. You know what I promised my brother. I went to him to make arrangements
for doing it, and when there I heard--oh, Sarah, such dreadful news!"

"He says you're not to do it, I suppose!" And in the woman's voice and eyes there were signs
of anger, not against Mr Slow alone, but also against Miss Mackenzie. "I knew how it would
be. But, Margaret, Mr Slow has got nothing to do with it. A promise is a promise; and a promise
made to a dying man! Oh, Margaret!"

"If I had it to give I would give it as surely as I am standing here. When I told my brother
it should be so, he believed me at once."

"Of course he believed you."

"But Sarah, they tell me now that I have nothing to give."

"Who tells you so?"

"The lawyer. I cannot explain it all to you; indeed, I do not as yet understand it myself;
but I have learned this morning that the property which Walter left me was not his to leave.
It had been given away before Mr Jonathan Ball died."

"It's a lie!" said the injured woman,--the woman who was the least injured, but who, with her
children, had perhaps the best excuse for being ill able to bear the injury. "It must be a
lie. It's more than twenty years ago. I don't believe and won't believe that it can be so.
John Ball must have something to do with this."

"The property will go to him, but he has had nothing to do with it. Mr Slow found it out."

"It can't be so, not after twenty years. Whatever they may have done from Walter, they can't
take it away from you; not if you've spirit enough to stand up for your rights. If you let
them take it in that way, I can't tell you what I shall think of you."

"It is my own lawyer that says so."

"Yes, Mr Slow; the biggest rogue of them all. I always knew that of him, always. Oh, Margaret,
think of the children! What are we to do? What are we to do?" And sitting down on the bedside,
she put her dirty apron up to her eyes.

"I have been thinking of them ever since I heard it," said Margaret.

"But what good will thinking do? You must do something. Oh! Margaret, after all that you said
to him when he lay there dying!" and the woman, with some approach to true pathos, put her
hand on the spot where her husband's head had rested. "Don't let his children come to beggary
because men like that choose to rob the widow and the orphan."

"Every one has a right to what is his own," said Margaret. "Even though widows should be beggars,
and orphans should want."

"That's very well of you, Margaret. It's very well for you to say that, who have friends like
the Balls to stand by you. And, perhaps, if you will let him have it all without saying anything,
he will stand by you firmer than ever. But who is there to stand by me and my children? It
can't be that after twenty years your fortune should belong to anyone else. Why should it have
gone on for more than twenty years, and nobody have found it out? I don't believe it can come
so, Margaret, unless you choose to let them do it. I don't believe a word of it."

There was nothing more to be said upon that subject at present. Mrs Tom did indeed say a great
deal more about it, sometimes threatening Margaret, and sometimes imploring her; but Miss Mackenzie
herself would not allow herself to speak of the thing otherwise than as an ascertained fact.
Had the other woman been more reasonable or less passionate in her lamentations Miss Mackenzie
might have trusted herself to tell her that there was yet a doubt. But she herself felt that
the doubt was so small, and that, in Mrs Tom's mind, it would be so magnified into nearly a
certainty on the other side, that she thought it most discreet not to refer to the exact amount
of information which Mr Slow had given to her.

"It will be best for us to think, Sarah," she said, trying to turn the other's mind away from
the coveted income which she would never possess--"to think what you and the children had better
do."

"Oh, dear! oh, dear! oh, dear!"

"It is very bad; but there is always something to be done. We must lose no time in letting
Mr Rubb know the truth. When he hears how it is, he will understand that something must be
done for you out of the firm."

"He won't do anything. He's downstairs now, flirting with that girl in the drawing-room, instead
of being at his business."

"If he's downstairs, I will see him."

As Mrs Mackenzie made no objection to this, Margaret went downstairs, and when she came near
the passage at the bottom, she heard the voices of people talking merrily in the parlour. As
her hand was on the lock of the door, words from Miss Colza became very audible. "Now, Mr Rubb,
be quiet." So she knocked at the door, and having been invited by Mr Rubb to come in, she opened
it.

It may be presumed that the flirting had not gone to any perilous extent, as there were three
or four children present. Nevertheless Miss Colza and Mr Rubb were somewhat disconcerted, and
expressed their surprise at seeing Miss Mackenzie.

"We all thought you were staying with the baronet's lady," said Miss Colza.

Miss Mackenzie explained that she was staying at Twickenham, but that she had come up to pay
a visit to her sister-in-law. "And I've a word or two I want to say to you, Mr Rubb, if you'll
allow me."

"I suppose, then, I'd better make myself scarce," said Miss Colza.

As she was not asked to stay, she did make herself scarce, taking the children with her up
among the tables and chairs in the drawing-room. There she found Mary Jane, but she did not
find Mrs Mackenzie, who had thrown herself on the bed in her agony upstairs.

Then Miss Mackenzie told her wretched story to Mr Rubb,--telling it for the third time. He
was awe-struck as he listened, but did not once attempt to deny the facts, as had been done
by Mrs Mackenzie.

"And is it sure?" he asked, when her story was over.

"I don't suppose it is quite sure yet. Indeed, Mr Slow said it was not quite sure. But I have
not allowed myself to doubt it, and I do not doubt it."

"If he himself had not felt himself sure, he would not have told you."

"Just so, Mr Rubb. That is what I think; and therefore I have given my sister-in-law no hint
that there is a chance left. I think you had better not do so either."

"Perhaps not," said he. He spoke in a low voice, almost whispering, as though he were half
scared by the tidings he had heard.

"It is very dreadful," she said; "very dreadful for Sarah and the children."

"And for you too, Miss Mackenzie."

"But about them, Mr Rubb. What can you do for them out of the business?"

He looked very blank, and made no immediate answer.

"I know you will feel for their position," she said. "You do; do you not?"

"Indeed I do, Miss Mackenzie."

"And you will do what you can. You can at any rate ensure them the interest of the money--of
the money you know that came from me."

Still Mr Rubb sat in silence, and she thought that he must be stonyhearted. Surely he might
undertake to do that, knowing, as he so well knew, the way in which the money had been obtained,
and knowing also that he had already said that so much should be forthcoming out of the firm
to make up a general income for the family of his late partner.

"Surely there will be no doubt about that, Mr Rubb."

"The Balls will claim the debt," said he hoarsely; and then, in answer to her inquiries, he
explained that the sum she had lent had not, in truth, been hers to lend. It had formed part
of the money that John Ball could claim, and Mr Slow held in his hands an acknowledgement of
the debt from Rubb and Mackenzie. Of course, Mr Ball would claim that the interest should be
paid to him; and he would claim the principal too, if, on inquiry, he should find that the
firm would be able to raise it. "I don't know that he wouldn't be able to come upon the firm
for the money your brother put into the business," said he gloomily. "But I don't think he'll
be such a fool as that. He'd get nothing by it."

"Then may God help them!" said Miss Mackenzie.

"And what will you do?" he asked.

She shook her head, but made him no answer. As for herself she had not begun to form a plan.
Her own condition did not seem to her to be nearly so dreadful as that of all these young children.

"I wish I knew how to help you," said Samuel Rubb.

"There are some positions, Mr Rubb, in which no one but God can help one. But, perhaps--perhaps
you may still do something for the children."

"I will try, Miss Mackenzie."

"Thank you, and may God bless you; and He will bless you if you try. 'Who giveth a drop of
water to one of them in my name, giveth it also to me.' You will think of that, will you not?"

"I will think of you, and do the best that I can."

"I had hoped to have made them so comfortable! But God's will be done; God's will be done.
I think I had better go now, Mr Rubb. There will be no use in my going to her upstairs again.
Tell her from me, with my love, that she shall hear from me when I have seen the lawyer. I
will try to come to her, but perhaps I may not be able. Good-bye, Mr Rubb."

"Good-bye, Miss Mackenzie. I hope we shall see each other sometimes."

"Perhaps so. Do what you can to support her. She will want all that her friends can do for
her." So saying she went out of the room, and let herself out of the front door into the street,
and began her walk back to the Waterloo Station.

She had not broken bread in her sister-in-law's house, and it was now nearly six o'clock. She
had taken nothing since she had breakfasted at Twickenham, and the affairs of the day had been
such as to give her but little time to think of such wants. But now as she made her weary way
through the streets she became sick with hunger, and went into a baker's shop for a bun. As
she ate it she felt that it was almost wrong in her to buy even that. At the present moment
nothing that she possessed seemed to her to be, by right, her own. Every shilling in her purse
was the property of John Ball, if Mr Slow's statement were true. Then, when the bun was finished,
as she went down by Bloomsbury church and the region of St Giles's back to the Strand, she
did begin to think of her own position. What should she do, and how should she commence to
do it? She had declared to herself but lately that the work for which she was fittest was that
of nursing the sick. Was it not possible that she might earn her bread in this way? Could she
not find such employment in some quarter where her labour would be worth the food she must
eat and the raiment she would require? There was a hospital somewhere in London with which
she thought she had heard that John Ball was connected. Might not he obtain for her a situation
such as that?

It was past eight when she reached the Cedars, and then she was very tired,--very tired and
nearly sick also with want. She went first of all up to her room, and then crept down into
the drawing-room, knowing that she should find them at tea. When she entered there was a large
party round the table, consisting of the girls and children and Lady Ball. John Ball, who never
took tea, was sitting in his accustomed place near the lamp, and the old baronet was half asleep
in his arm-chair.

"If you were going to dine in Gower Street, Margaret, why didn't you say so?" said Lady Ball.

In answer to this, Margaret burst out into tears. It was not the unkindness of her aunt's voice
that upset her so much as her own weakness, and the terrible struggle of the long day.

"What on earth is the matter?" said Sir John.

One of the girls brought her a cup of tea, but she felt herself to be too weak to take it in
her hand, and made a sign that it should be put on the table. She was not aware that she had
ever fainted, but a fear came upon her that she might do so now. She rallied herself and struggled,
striving to collect her strength.

"Do you know what is the matter with her, John?" said Lady Ball.

Then John Ball asked her if she had had dinner, and when she did not answer him he saw how it was.

"Mother," he said, "she has had no food all day; I will get it for her."

"If she wants anything, the servants can bring it to her, John," said the mother.

But he would not trust the servants in this matter, but went out himself and fetched her meat
and wine, and pressed her to take it, and sat himself beside her, and spoke kind words into
her ear, and at last, in some sort, she was comforted.

CHAPTER XIX

Showing How Two of Miss Mackenzie's Lovers Behaved

Mr Ball, on his return home to the Cedars, had given no definite answer to his mother's inquiries
as to the day's work in London, and had found it difficult to make any reply to her that would
for the moment suffice. She was not a woman easily satisfied with evasive answers; but, nevertheless,
he told her nothing of what had occurred, and left her simply in a bad humour. This conversation
had taken place before dinner, but after dinner she asked him another question.

"John, you might as well tell me this; are you engaged to Margaret Mackenzie?"

"No, I am not," said her son, angrily.

After that his mother's humour had become worse than before, and in that state her niece had
found her when she returned home in the evening, and had suffered in consequence.

On the next morning Miss Mackenzie sent down word to say she was not well, and would not come
down to breakfast. It so happened that John Ball was going into town on this day also, the
Abednego Life Office holding its board day immediately after that of the Shadrach Fire Office,
and therefore he was not able to see her before she encountered his mother. Lady Ball went
up to her in her bedroom immediately after breakfast, and there remained with her for some
time. Her aunt at first was tender with her, giving her tea and only asking her gentle little
questions at intervals; but as the old lady became impatient at learning nothing, she began
a system of cross-questions, and at last grew to be angry and disagreeable. Her son had distinctly
told her that he was not engaged to his cousin, and had in fact told her nothing else distinctly;
but she, when she had seen how careful he had been in supplying Margaret's wants himself, with
what anxious solicitude he had pressed wine on her; how he had sat by her saying soft words
to her--Lady Ball, when she remembered this, could not but think that her son had deceived
her. And if so, why had he wished to deceive her? Could it be that he had allowed her to give
away half her money, and had promised to marry her with the other half? There were moments
in which her dear son John could be very foolish, in spite of that life-long devotion to the
price of stocks, for which he was conspicuous. She still remembered, as though it were but
the other day, how he had persisted in marrying Rachel, though Rachel brought nothing with
her but a sweet face, a light figure, a happy temper, and the clothes on her back. To all mothers
their sons are ever young, and to old Lady Ball John Ball was still young, and still, possibly,
capable of some such folly as that of which she was thinking. If it were not so, if there were
not something of that kind in the wind why should he--why should she--be so hard and uncommunicative
in all their answers? There lay her niece, however, sick with the headache, and therefore weak,
and very much in Lady Ball's power. The evil to be done was great, and the necessity for preventing
it might be immediate. And Lady Ball was a lady who did not like to be kept in the dark in
reference to anything concerning her family. Having gone downstairs, therefore, for an hour
or so to look after her servants, or, as she had said, to allow Margaret to have a little sleep,
she returned again to the charge, and sitting close to Margaret's pillow, did her best to find
out the truth.

If she could only have known the whole truth; how her son's thoughts were running throughout
the day, even as he sat at the Abednego board, not on Margaret with half her fortune, but on
Margaret with none! how he was recalling the sweetness of her face as she looked up to him
in the square, and took him by his coat, and her tears as she spoke of the orphan children,
and the grace of her figure as she had walked away from him, and the persistency of her courage
in doing what she thought to be right! how he was struggling within himself with an endeavour,
a vain endeavour, at a resolution that such a marriage as that must be out of the question!
Had Lady Ball known all that, I think she would have flown to the offices of the Abednego after
her son, and never have left him till she had conquered his heart and trampled his folly under
her feet.

But she did not conquer Margaret Mackenzie. The poor creature lying there, racked, in truth,
with pain and sorrow, altogether incapable of any escape from her aunt's gripe, would not say
a word that might tend to ease Lady Ball's mind. If she had told all that she knew, all that
she surmised, how would her aunt have rejoiced? That the money should come without the wife
would indeed have been a triumph! And Margaret in telling all would have had nothing to tell
of those terribly foolish thoughts which were then at work in the City. To her such a state
of things as that which I have hinted would have seemed quite as improbable, quite as unaccountable,
as it would have done to her aunt. But she did not tell all, nor in truth did she tell anything.

"And John was with you at the lawyer's," said Lady Ball, attempting her cross-examination for
the third time. "Yes; he was with me there."

"And what did he say when you asked Mr Slow to make such a settlement as that?"

"He didn't say anything, aunt. The whole thing was put off."

"I know it was put off; of course it was put off. I didn't suppose any respectable lawyer in
London would have dreamed of doing such a thing. But what I want to know is, how it was put
off. What did Mr Slow say?"

"I am to see him again next week."

"But not to get him to do anything of that kind?"

"I can't tell, aunt, what he is to do then."

"But what did he say when you made such a proposition as that? Did he not tell you that it
was quite out of the question?"

"I don't think he said that, aunt."

"Then what did he say? Margaret, I never saw such a person as you are. Why should you be so
mysterious? There can't be anything you don't want me to know, seeing how very much I am concerned;
and I do think you ought to tell me all that occurred, knowing, as you do, that I have done
my very best to be kind to you."

"Indeed there isn't anything I can tell--not yet."

Then Lady Ball remained silent at the bed-head for the space, perhaps, of ten minutes, meditating
over it all. If her son was, in truth, engaged to this woman, at any rate she would find that
out. If she asked a point-blank question on that subject, Margaret would not be able to leave
it unanswered, and would hardly be able to give a directly false answer.

"My dear," she said, "I think you will not refuse to tell me plainly whether there is anything
between you and John. As his mother, I have a right to know?"

"How anything between us?" said Margaret, raising herself on her elbow.

"Are you engaged to marry him?"

"Oh, dear! no."

"And there is nothing of that sort going on?"

"Nothing at all."

"You are determined still to refuse him?"

"It is quite out of the question, aunt. He does not wish it at all. You may be sure that he
has quite changed his mind about it."

"But he won't have changed his mind if you have given up your plan about your sister-in-law."

"He has changed it altogether, aunt. You needn't think anything more about that. He thinks
no more about it."

Nevertheless he was thinking about it this very moment, as he voted for accepting a doubtful
life at the Abednego, which was urged on the board by a director, who, I hope, had no intimate
personal relations with the owner of the doubtful life in question.

Lady Ball did not know what to make of it. For many years past she had not seen her son carry
himself so much like a lover as he had done when he sat himself beside his cousin pressing
her to drink her glass of sherry. Why was he so anxious for her comfort? And why, before that,
had he been so studiously reticent as to her affairs?

"I can't make anything out of you," said Lady Ball, getting up from her chair with angry alacrity;
"and I must say that I think it very ungrateful of you, seeing all that I have done for you."

So saying, she left the room.

What, oh, what would she think when she should come to know the truth? Margaret told herself
as she lay there, holding her head between her hands, that she was even now occupying that
room and enjoying the questionable comfort of that bed under false pretences. When it was known
that she was absolutely a pauper, would she then be made welcome to her uncle's house? She
was now remaining there without divulging her circumstances, under the advice and by the authority
of her cousin; and she had resolved to be guided by him in all things as long as he would be
at the trouble to guide her. On whom else could she depend? But, nevertheless, her position
was very grievous to her, and the more so now that her aunt had twitted her with ingratitude.
When the servant came to her, she felt that she had no right to the girl's services; and when
a message was brought to her from Lady Ball, asking whether she would be taken out in the carriage,
she acknowledged to herself that such courtesy to her was altogether out of place.

On that evening her cousin said nothing to her, and on the next day he went again up to town.

"What, four days running, John!" said Lady Ball, at breakfast.

"I have particular business to-day, mother," said he.

On that evening, when he came back, he found a moment to take Margaret by the hand and tell
her that his own lawyer also was to meet them at Mr Slow's chambers on the day named. He took
her thus, and held her hand closely in his while he was speaking, but he said nothing to her
more tender than the nature of such a communication required.

"You and John are terribly mysterious," said Lady Ball to her, a minute or two afterwards.
"If there is anything I do hate it's mystery in families. We never had any with us till you came."

On the next day a letter reached her which had been redirected from Gower Street. It was from
Mr Maguire; and she took it up into her own room to read it and answer it. The letter and reply
were as follows:

   Littlebath, Oct., 186--.

   DEAREST MARGARET,

   I hope the circumstances of the case will, in your
   opinion, justify me in writing to you again, though I am
   sorry to intrude upon you at a time when your heart must
   yet be sore with grief for the loss of your lamented
   brother. Were we now all in all to each other, as I
   hope we may still be before long, it would be my sweet
   privilege to wipe your eyes, and comfort you in your
   sorrow, and bid you remember that it is the Lord who
   giveth and the Lord who taketh away. Blessed be the name
   of the Lord. I do not doubt that you have spoken to
   yourself daily in those words, nay, almost hourly, since
   your brother was taken from you. I had not the privilege
   of knowing him, but if he was in any way like his sister,
   he would have been a friend whom I should have delighted
   to press to my breast and carry in my heart of hearts.

   But now, dearest Margaret, will you allow me to intrude
   upon you with another theme? Of course you well know the
   subject upon which, at present, I am thinking more than on
   any other. May I be permitted to hope that that subject
   sometimes presents itself to you in a light that is not
   altogether disagreeable. When you left Littlebath so
   suddenly, carried away on a mission of love and kindness,
   you left me, as you will doubtlessly remember, in a state
   of some suspense. You had kindly consented to acknowledge
   that I was not altogether indifferent to you.

"That's not true," said Margaret to herself, almost out loud; "I never told him anything of
the kind."

   And it was arranged that on that very day we were to have
   had a meeting, to which--shall I confess it?--I looked
   forward as the happiest moment of my life. I can hardly
   tell you what my feelings were when I found that you were
   going, and that I could only just say to you, farewell. If
   I could only have been with you when that letter came I
   think I could have softened your sorrow, and perhaps then,
   in your gentleness, you might have said a word which would
   have left me nothing to wish for in this world. But it has
   been otherwise ordered, and, Margaret, I do not complain.

   But what makes me write now is the great necessity that
   I should know exactly how I stand. You said something in
   your last dear letter which gave me to understand that you
   wished to do something for your brother's family. Promises
   made by the bed-sides of the dying are always dangerous,
   and in the cases of Roman Catholics have been found to be
   replete with ruin.

Mr Maguire, no doubt, forgot that in such cases the promises are made by, and not to, the dying
person.

   Nevertheless, I am far from saying that they should not
   be kept in a modified form, and you need not for a moment
   think that I, if I may be allowed to have an interest in
   the matter, would wish to hinder you from doing whatever
   may be becoming. I think I may promise you that you will
   find no mercenary spirit in me, although, of course, I am
   bound, looking forward to the tender tie which will, I
   hope, connect us, to regard your interests above all other
   worldly affairs. If I may then say a word of advice, it is
   to recommend that nothing permanent be done till we can
   act together in this matter. Do not, however, suppose that
   anything you can do or have done, can alter the nature of
   my regard.

   But now, dearest Margaret, will you not allow me to press
   for an immediate answer to my appeal? I will tell you
   exactly how I am circumstanced, and then you will see
   how strong is my reason that there should be no delay.
   Very many people here, I may say all the elite of the
   evangelical circles, including Mrs Perch--[Mrs Perch was
   the coachmaker's wife, who had always been so true to Mrs
   Stumfold]--desired that I should establish a church here,
   on my own bottom, quite independent of Mr Stumfold. The
   Stumfolds would then soon have to leave Littlebath, there
   is no doubt of that, and she has already made herself
   so unendurable, and her father and she together are so
   distressing, that the best of their society has fallen
   away from them. Her treatment to you was such that I
   could never endure her afterwards. Now the opening for a
   clergyman with pure Gospel doctrines would be the best
   thing that has turned up for a long time. The church would
   be worth over six hundred a year, besides the interest of
   the money which would have to be laid out. I could have
   all this commenced at once, and secure the incumbency,
   if I could myself head the subscription list with two
   thousand pounds. It should not be less than that. You will
   understand that the money would not be given, though, no
   doubt, a great many persons would, in this way, be induced
   to give theirs. But the pew rents would go in the first
   instance to provide interest for the money not given, but
   lent; as would of course be the case with your money, if
   you would advance it.

   I should not think of such a plan as this if I did not
   feel that it was the best thing for your interests; that
   is, if, as I fondly hope, I am ever to call you mine.
   Of course, in that case, it is only common prudence on
   my part to do all I can to insure for myself such a
   professional income, for your sake. For, dearest Margaret,
   my brightest earthly hope is to see you with everything
   comfortable around you. If that could be arranged, it
   would be quite within our means to keep some sort of
   carriage.

Here would be a fine opportunity for rivalling Mrs Stumfold! That was the temptation with which
he hoped to allure her.

   But the thing must be done quite immediately; therefore
   let me pray you not to postpone my hopes with unnecessary
   delay. I know it seems unromantic to urge a lady with
   any pecuniary considerations, but I think that under the
   circumstances, as I have explained them, you will forgive
   me.

   Believe me to be, dearest Margaret,
   Yours, with truest,
   Most devoted affection,

   JEREH. MAGUIRE.

One man had wanted her money to buy a house on a mortgage, and another now asked for it to
build a church, giving her, or promising to give her, the security of the pew rents. Which
of the two was the worst? They were both her lovers, and she thought that he was the worst
who first made his love and then tried to get her money. These were the ideas which at once
occurred to her upon her reading Mr Maguire's letter. She had quite wit enough to see through
the whole project; how outsiders were to be induced to give their money, thinking that all
was to be given; whereas those inside the temple,--those who knew all about it,--were simply
to make for themselves a good speculation. Her cousin John's constant solicitude for money
was bad; but, after all, it was not so bad as this. She told herself at once that the letter
was one which would of itself have ended everything between her and Mr Maguire, even had nothing
occurred to put an absolute and imperative stop to the affair. Mr Maguire pressed for an early
answer, and before she left the room she sat down and wrote it.

   The Cedars, Twickenham, October, 186--.

   DEAR SIR

Before she wrote the words, "Dear Sir," she had to think much of them, not having had as yet
much experience in writing letters to gentlemen; but she concluded at last that if she simply
wrote "Sir," he would take it as an insult, and that if she wrote "My dear Mr Maguire," it
would, under the circumstances, be too affectionate.

   DEAR SIR,

   I have got your letter to-day, and I hasten to answer it
   at once. All that to which you allude between us must be
   considered as being altogether over, and I am very sorry
   that you should have had so much trouble. My circumstances
   are altogether changed. I cannot explain how, as it would
   make my letter very long; but you may be assured that such
   is the case, and to so great an extent that the engagement
   you speak of would not at all suit you at present. Pray
   take this as being quite true, and believe me to be

   Your very humble servant,

   MARGARET MACKENZIE.

I feel that the letter was somewhat curt and dry as an answer to an effusion so full of affection
as that which the gentleman had written; and the fair reader, when she remembers that Miss
Mackenzie had given the gentleman considerable encouragement, will probably think that she
should have expressed something like regret at so sudden a termination to so tender a friendship.
But she, in truth, regarded the offer as having been made to her money solely, and as in fact
no longer existing as an offer, now that her money itself was no longer in existence. She was
angry with Mr Maguire for the words he had written about her brother's affairs; for his wish
to limit her kindness to her nephews and nieces, and also for his greediness in being desirous
of getting her money at once; but as to the main question, she thought herself bound to answer
him plainly, as she would have answered a man who came to buy from her a house, which house
was no longer in her possession.

Mr Maguire when he received her letter, did not believe a word of it. He did not in the least
believe that she had actually lost everything that had once belonged to her, or that he, if
he married her now, would obtain less than he would have done had he married her before her
brother's death. But he thought that her brother's family and friends had got hold of her in
London; that Mr Rubb might very probably have done it; and that they were striving to obtain
command of her money, and were influencing her to desert him. He thinking so, and being a man
of good courage, took a resolution to follow his game, and to see whether even yet he might
not obtain the good things which had made his eyes glisten and his mouth water. He knew that
there was very much against him in the race that he was desirous of running, and that an heiress
with--he did not know how much a year, but it had been rumoured among the Stumfoldians that
it was over a thousand--might not again fall in his way. There were very many things against
him, of which he was quite conscious. He had not a shilling of his own, and was in receipt
of no professional income. He was not altogether a young man. There was in his personal appearance
a defect which many ladies might find it difficult to overcome; and then that little story
about his debts, which Miss Todd had picked up, was not only true, but was some degrees under
the truth. No doubt, he had a great wish that his wife should be comfortable; but he also,
for himself, had long been pining after those eligible comforts, which when they appertain
to clergymen, the world, with so much malice, persists in calling the flesh-pots of Egypt.
Thinking of all this, of the position he had already gained in spite of his personal disadvantages,
and of the great chance there was that his Margaret might yet be rescued from the Philistines,
he resolved upon a journey to London.

In the meantime Miss Mackenzie's other lover had not been idle, and he also was resolved by
no means to give up the battle.

It cannot be said that Mr Rubb was not mercenary in his views, but with his desire for the
lady's money was mingled much that was courageous, and something also that was generous. The
whole truth had been told to him as plainly as it had been told to Mr Ball, and nevertheless
he determined to persevere. He went to work diligently on that very afternoon, deserting the
smiles of Miss Colza, and made such inquiries into the law of the matter as were possible to
him; and they resulted, as far as Miss Mackenzie was concerned, in his appearing late one afternoon
at the front door of Sir John Ball's house. On the day following this Miss Mackenzie was to
keep her appointment with Mr Slow, and her cousin was now up in London among the lawyers.

Miss Mackenzie was sitting with her aunt when Mr Rubb called. They were both in the drawing-room;
and Lady Ball, who had as yet succeeded in learning nothing, and who was more than ever convinced
that there was much to learn, was not making herself pleasant to her companion. Throughout
the whole week she had been very unpleasant. She did not quite understand why Margaret's sojourn
at the Cedars had been and was to be so much prolonged. Margaret, feeling herself compelled
to say something on the subject, had with some hesitation told her aunt that she was staying
till she had seen her lawyer again, because her cousin wished her to stay.

In answer to this, Lady Ball had of course told her that she was welcome. Her ladyship had
then cross-questioned her son on that subject also, but he had simply said that as there was
law business to be done, Margaret might as well stay at Twickenham till it was completed.

"But, my dear," Lady Ball had said, "her law business might go on for ever, for what you know."

"Mother," said the son, sternly, "I wish her to stay here at present, and I suppose you will
not refuse to permit her to do so."

After this, Lady Ball could go no further.

On the day on which Mr Rubb was announced in the drawing-room, the aunt and niece were sitting
together. "Mr Rubb--to see Miss Mackenzie," said the old servant, as he opened the door.

Miss Mackenzie got up, blushing to her forehead, and Lady Ball rose from her chair with an
angry look, as though asking the oilcloth manufacturer how he dared to make his way in there.
The name of the Rubbs had been specially odious to all the family at the Cedars since Tom Mackenzie
had carried his share of Jonathan Ball's money into the firm in the New Road. And Mr Rubb's
appearance was not calculated to mitigate this anger. Again he had got on those horrid yellow
gloves, and again had dressed himself up to his idea of the garb of a man of fashion. To Margaret's
eyes, in the midst of her own misfortunes, he was a thing horrible to behold, as he came into
that drawing-room. When she had seen him in his natural condition, at her brother's house,
he had been at any rate unobjectionable to her; and when, on various occasions, he had talked
to her about his own business, pleading his own cause and excusing his own fault, she had really
liked him. There had been a moment or two, the moments of his bitterest confessions, in which
she had in truth liked him much. But now! What would she not have given that the old servant
should have taken upon himself to declare that she was not at home.

But there he was in her aunt's drawing-room, and she had nothing to do but to ask him to sit down.

"This is my aunt, Lady Ball," said Margaret.

"I hope I have the honour of seeing her ladyship quite well," said Mr Rubb, bowing low before
he ventured to seat himself.

Lady Ball would not condescend to say a word, but stared at him in a manner that would have
driven him out of the room had he understood the nature of such looks on ladies' faces.

"I hope my sister-in-law and the children are well," said Margaret, with a violent attempt
to make conversation.

"Pretty much as you left them, Miss Mackenzie; she takes on a good deal; but that's only human
nature; eh, my lady?"

But her ladyship still would not condescend to speak a word.

Margaret did not know what further to say. All subjects on which it might have been possible
for her to speak to Mr Rubb were stopped from her in the presence of her aunt. Mr Rubb knew
of that great calamity of which, as yet, Lady Ball knew nothing,--of that great calamity to
the niece, but great blessing, as it would be thought by the aunt. And she was in much fear
lest Mr Rubb should say something which might tend to divulge the secret.

"Did you come by the train?" she said, at last, reduced in her agony to utter the first unmeaning
question of which she could think.

"Yes, Miss Mackenzie, I came by the train, and I am going back by the 5.45, if I can just be
allowed to say a few words to you first."

"Does the gentleman mean in private?" asked Lady Ball.

"If you please, my lady," said Mr Rubb, who was beginning to think that he did not like Lady Ball.

"If Miss Mackenzie wishes it, of course she can do so."

"It may be about my brother's affairs," said Margaret, getting up.

"It is nothing to me, my dear, whether they are your brother's or your own," said Lady Ball;
"you had better not interrupt your uncle in the study; but I daresay you'll find the dining-room
disengaged."

So Miss Mackenzie led the way into the dining-room, and Mr Rubb followed. There they found
some of the girls, who stared very hard at Mr Rubb, as they left the room at their cousin's
request. As soon as they were left alone Mr Rubb began his work manfully.

"Margaret," said he, "I hope you will let me call you so now that you are in trouble?"

To this she made no answer.

"But perhaps your trouble is over? Perhaps you have found out that it isn't as you told us
the other day?"

"No, Mr Rubb; I have found nothing of that kind; I believe it is as I told you."

"Then I'll tell you what I propose. You haven't given up the fight, have you? You have not
done anything?"

"I have done nothing as yet."

"Then I'll tell you my plan. Fight it out."

"I do not want to fight for anything that is not my own."

"But it is your own. It is your own of rights, even though it should not be so by some quibble
of the lawyers. I don't believe twelve Englishmen would be found in London to give it to anybody
else; I don't indeed."

"But my own lawyer tells me it isn't mine, Mr Rubb."

"Never mind him; don't you give up anything. Don't you let them make you soft. When it comes
to money nobody should give up anything. Now I'll tell you what I propose."

She now sat down and listened to him, while he stood over her. It was manifest that he was
very eager, and in his eagerness he became loud, so that she feared his words might be heard
out of the room.

"You know what my sentiments are," he said. At that moment she did not remember what his sentiments
were, nor did she know what he meant. "They're the same now as ever. Whether you have got your
fortune, or whether you've got nothing, they're the same. I've seen you tried alongside of
your brother, when he was a-dying, and, Margaret, I like you now better than ever I did."

"Mr Rubb, at present, all that cannot mean anything."

"But doesn't it mean anything? By Jove! it does though. It means just this, that I'll make
you Mrs Rubb to-morrow, or as soon as Doctors' Commons, and all that, will let us do it; and
I'll chance the money afterwards. Do you let it just go easy, and say nothing, and I'll fight
them. If the worst comes to the worst, they'll be willing enough to cry halves with us. But,
Margaret, if the worst does come to be worse than that you won't find me hard to you on that
account. I shall always remember who helped me when I wanted help."

"I am sure, Mr Rubb, I am much obliged to you."

"Don't talk about being obliged, but get up and give me your hand, and say it shall be a bargain."
Then he tried to take her by the hand and raise her from the chair up towards him.

"No, no, no!" said she.

"But I say yes. Why should it be no? If there never should come a penny out of this property
I will put a roof over your head, and will find you victuals and clothes respectably. Who will
do better for you than that? And as for the fight, by Jove! I shall like it. You'll find they'll
get nothing out of my hands till they have torn away my nails."

Here was a new phase in her life. Here was a man willing to marry her even though she had no
assured fortune.

"Margaret," said he, pleading his cause again, "I have that love for you that I would take
you though it was all gone, to the last farthing."

"It is all gone."

"Let that be as it may, we'll try it. But though it should be all gone, every shilling of it,
still, will you be my wife?"

It was altogether a new phase, and one that was inexplicable to her. And this came from a man
to whom she had once thought that she might bring herself to give her hand and her heart, and
her money also. She did not doubt that if she took him at his word he would be good to her,
and provide her with shelter, and food and raiment, as he had promised her. Her heart was softened
towards him, and she forgot his gloves and his shining boots. But she could not bring herself
to say that she would love him, and be his wife. It seemed to her now that she was under the
guidance of her cousin, and that she was pledged to do nothing of which he would disapprove.
He would not approve of her accepting the hand of a man who would be resolved to litigate this
matter with him.

"It cannot be," she said. "I feel how generous you are, but it cannot be."

"And why shouldn't it be?"

"Oh, Mr Rubb, there are things one cannot explain."

"Margaret, think of it. How are you to do better?"

"Perhaps not; probably not. In many ways I am sure I could not do better. But it cannot be."

Not then, nor for the next twenty minutes, but at last he took his answer and went. He did
this when he found that he had no more minutes to spare if he intended to return by the 5.45
train. Then, with an angry gesture of his head, he left her, and hurried across to the front
door. Then, as he went out, Mr John Ball came in.

"Good evening, sir," said Mr Rubb. "I am Mr Samuel Rubb. I have just been seeing Miss Mackenzie,
on business. Good evening, sir."

John Ball said never a word, and Samuel Rubb hurried across the grounds to the railway station.

CHAPTER XX

Showing How the Third Lover Behaved

"What has that man been here for?" Those were the first words which Mr Ball spoke to his cousin
after shutting the hall-door behind Mr Rubb's back. When the door was closed he turned round
and saw Margaret as she was coming out of the dining-room, and in a voice that sounded to her
as though he were angry, asked her the above question.

"He came to see me, John," said Miss Mackenzie, going back into the dining-room. "He was my
brother's partner."

"He said he came upon business; what business could he have?"

It was not very easy for her to tell him what had been Mr Rubb's business. She had no wish
to keep anything secret from her cousin, but she did not know how to describe the scene which
had just taken place, or how to acknowledge that the man had come there to ask her to marry him.

"Does he know anything of this matter of your money?" continued Mr Ball.

"Oh yes; he knows it all. He was in Gower Street when I told my sister-in-law."

"And he came to advise you about it?"

"Yes; he did advise me about it. But his advice I shall not take."

"And what did he advise?"

Then Margaret told him that Mr Rubb had counselled her to fight it out to the last, in order
that a compromise might at any rate be obtained.

"If it has no selfish object in view I am far from saying that he is wrong," said John Ball.
"It is what I should advise a friend to do under similar circumstances."

"It is not what I shall do, John."

"No; you are like a lamb that gives itself up to the slaughterer. I have been with one lawyer
or the other all day, and the end of it is that there is no use on earth in your going to London
to-morrow, nor, as far as I can see, for another week to come. The two lawyers together have
referred the case to counsel for opinion,--for an amicable opinion as they call it. From what
they all say, Margaret, it seems to me clear that the matter will go against you."

"I have expected nothing else since Mr Slow spoke to me."

"But no doubt you can make a fight, as your friend says."

"I don't want to fight, John; you know that."

"Mr Slow won't let you give it up without a contest. He suggested a compromise,--that you and
I should divide it. But I hate compromises." She looked up into his face but said nothing.
"The truth is, I have been so wronged in the matter, the whole thing has been so cruel, it
has, all of it together, so completely ruined me and my prospects in life, that were it any
one but you, I would sooner have a lawsuit than give up one penny of what is left." Again she
looked at him, but he went on speaking of it without observing her. "Think what it has been,
Margaret! The whole of this property was once mine! Not the half of it only that has been called
yours, but the whole of it! The income was actually paid for one half-year to a separate banking
account on my behalf, before I was of age. Yes, paid to me, and I had it! My uncle Jonathan
had no more legal right to take it away from me than you have to take the coat off my back.
Think of that, and of what four-and-twenty thousand pounds would have done for me and my family
from that time to this. There have been nearly thirty years of this robbery!"

"It was not my fault, John."

"No; it was not your fault. But if your brothers could pay me back all that they really owe
me, all that the money would now be worth, it would come to nearly a hundred thousand pounds.
After that, what is a man to say when he is asked to compromise? As far as I can see, there
is not a shadow of doubt about it. Mr Slow does not pretend that there is a doubt. How they
can fail to see the justice of it is what passes my understanding!"

"Mr Slow will give up at once, I suppose, if I ask him?"

"I don't want you to ask him. I would rather that you didn't say a word to him about it. There
is a debt too from that man Rubb which they advise me to abandon."

In answer to this, Margaret could say nothing, for she knew well that her trust in the interest
of that money was the only hope she had of any maintenance for her sister-in-law.

After a few minutes' silence he again spoke to her. "He desires to know whether you want money
for immediate use."

"Who wants to know?"

"Mr Slow."

"Oh no, John. I have money at the bankers', but I will not touch it."

"How much is there at the bankers?"

"There is more than three hundred pounds; but very little more; perhaps three hundred and ten."

"You may have that."

"John, I don't want anything that is not my own; not though I had to walk out to earn my bread
in the streets to-morrow."

"That is your own, I tell you. The tenants have been ordered not to pay any further rents,
till they receive notice. You can make them pay, nevertheless, if you wish it; at least, you
might do so, till some legal steps were taken."

"Of course, I shall do nothing of the kind. It was Mr Slow's people who used to get the money.
And am I not to go up to London to-morrow?"

"You can go if you choose, but you will learn nothing. I told Mr Slow that I would bid you
wait till I heard from him again. It is time now for us to get ready for dinner."

Then, as he was going to leave the room, she took him by the coat and held him again,--held
him as fast as she had done on the pavement in Lincoln's Inn Fields. There was a soft, womanly,
trusting weakness in the manner of her motion as she did this, which touched him now as it
had touched him then.

"John," she said, "if there is to be so much delay, I must not stay here."

"Why not, Margaret?"

"My aunt does not like my staying; I can see that; and I don't think it is fair to do so while
she does not know all about it. It is something like cheating her out of the use of the house."

"Then I will tell her."

"What, all? Had I not better go first?"

"No; you cannot go. Where are you to go to? I will tell her everything to-night. I had almost
made up my mind to do so already. It will be better that they should both know it,--my father
and my mother. My father probably will be required to say all that he knows about the matter."

"I shall be ready to go at once if she wishes it," said Margaret.

To this he made no answer, but went upstairs to his bedroom, and there, as he dressed, thought
again, and again, and again of his cousin Margaret. What should he do for her, and in what
way should he treat her? The very name of the Mackenzies he had hated of old, and their names
were now more hateful to him than ever. He had correctly described his own feelings towards
them when he said, either truly or untruly, that they had deprived him of that which would
have made his whole life prosperous instead of the reverse. And it seemed as though he had
really thought that they had been in fault in this,--that they had defrauded him. It did not,
apparently, occur to him that the only persons he could blame were his uncle Jonathan and his
own lawyers, who, at his uncle's death, had failed to discover on his behalf what really were
his rights. Walter Mackenzie had been a poor creature who could do nothing. Tom Mackenzie had
been a mean creature who had allowed himself to be cozened in a petty trade out of the money
which he had wrongfully acquired. They were odious to him, and he hated their memories. He
would fain have hated all that belonged to them, had he been able. But he was not able to hate
this woman who clung to him, and trusted him, and felt no harsh feelings towards him, though
he was going to take from her everything that had been hers. She trusted him for advice even
though he was her adversary! Would he have trusted her or any other human being under such
circumstances? No, by heavens! But not the less on that account did he acknowledge to himself
that this confidence in her was very gracious.

That evening passed by very quietly as far as Miss Mackenzie was concerned. She had some time
since, immediately on her last arrival at the Cedars, offered to relieve her aunt from the
trouble of making tea, and the duty had then been given up to her. But since Lady Ball's affair
in obtaining possession of her niece's secret, the post of honour had been taken away.

"You don't make it as your uncle likes it," Lady Ball had said.

She made her little offer again on this evening, but it was rejected.

"Thank you, no; I believe I had better do it myself," had been the answer.

"Why can't you let Margaret make tea? I'm sure she does it very well," said John.

"I don't see that you can be a judge, seeing that you take none," his mother replied; "and
if you please, I'd rather make the tea in my own house as long as I can."

This little allusion to her own house was, no doubt, a blow at her son, to punish him in that
he had dictated to her in that matter of the continued entertainment of her guest; but Margaret
also felt it to be a blow at her, and resolved that she would escape from the house with as
little further delay as might be possible. Beyond this, the evening was very quiet, till Margaret,
a little after tea, took her candle and went off wearily to her room.

But then the business of the day as regarded the Cedars began; for John Ball, before he went
to bed, told both his father and his mother the whole story,--the story, that is, as far as
the money was concerned, and also as far as Margaret's conduct to him was concerned; but of
his own feelings towards her he said nothing.

"She has behaved admirably, mother," he said; "you must acknowledge that, and I think that
she is entitled to all the kindness we can show her."

"I have been kind to her," Lady Ball answered.

