CHINESE FOLK-LORE TALES

BY

REV. J. MACGOWAN, D.D.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LIMITED

ST. MARTIN'S STREET, LONDON

1910

GLASGOW: PRINTED AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS

BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.

CONTENTS

    I.  THE WIDOW HO
   II.  KWANG-JUI AND THE GOD OF THE RIVER
  III.  THE BEAUTIFUL DAUGHTER OF LIU-KUNG
   IV.  THE FAIRY BONZE
    V.  THE MYSTERIOUS BUDDHIST ROBE
   VI.  THE VENGEANCE OF THE GODDESS
  VII.  "THE WONDERFUL MAN"
 VIII.  THE GOD OF THE CITY
   IX.  THE TRAGEDY OF THE YIN FAMILY
    X.  SAM-CHUNG AND THE WATER DEMON
   XI.  THE REWARD OF A BENEVOLENT LIFE

I

THE WIDOW HO

One day in the early dawn, a distinguished mandarin was leaving the temple of the City God.
It was his duty to visit this temple on the first and fifteenth of the moon, whilst the city
was still asleep, to offer incense and adoration to the stern-looking figure enshrined within.

This mandarin was Shih-Kung, and a juster or more upright official did not exist in all the
fair provinces of the Empire.  Wherever his name was mentioned it was received with the profoundest
reverence and respect; for the Chinese people have never lost their ideal of Tien-Li, or Divine
Righteousness.  This ideal is still deeply embedded in the hearts of high and low, rich and
poor; and the homage of all classes, even of the most depraved is gladly offered to any man
who conspicuously displays this heavenly virtue.

As Shih-Kung was being carried along in his sedan chair, with his numerous retinue following
closely behind him, he happened to notice a young woman walking in the road in front of him,
and began to wonder what it was that had brought her out at such an unusually early hour. She
was dressed in the very deepest mourning, and so after a little more thought he concluded that
she was a widow who was on her way to the grave of her late husband to make the usual offerings
to his spirit.

All at once a sudden, furious whirlwind screamed about the woman and seemed determined to spend
its force upon her; but beyond her nothing was touched by it.  Not a leaf on the trees near
by was moved, and not a particle of dust on the road, except just where she stood, was in the
least agitated by the fierce tempest that for the moment raged around her.

As Shih-Kung gazed at this strange occurrence, the woman's outer skirt was blown up in the
air, and he saw that underneath was another garment of a rich crimson hue.  He then knew at
once that there was something radically wrong, for no woman of ordinary virtuous character
would ever dare to wear such a glaring colour, while she pretended to be in deep mourning.
There was something suspicious, too, in the sudden tornado that blew with such terrific violence
round the woman only.  It was not an accident that brought it there.  It was clearly the angry
protest of some spirit who had been foully misused, and who was determined that the wrong-doer
should not escape the penalty for the evil she had committed.

Calling two of his runners to him, Shih-Kung ordered them to follow the woman and to see where
she was going and what she did there, and then to report to him immediately.

the coffin of the dead, and was to be solved there and there only.  His course now seemed easy,
and it was with a mind full of relief that he entered his home.

He at once issued a warrant for the arrest of the widow, and at the same time sent officers
to bring the coffin that contained the body of her husband from its burying-place.

When the widow appeared before the mandarin, she denied that she knew anything of the cause
of her husband's death.  He had come home drunk one night, she declared, and had fallen senseless
on the ground.  After a great deal of difficulty, she had managed to lift him up on to the
bed, where he lay in a drunken slumber, just as men under the influence of liquor often do,
so that she was not in the least anxious or disturbed about him.  During the night she fell
asleep as she watched by his side, and when she woke up she found to her horror that he was dead.

"That is all that can be said about the case," she concluded, "and if you now order an examination
of the body, it simply means that you have suspicions about me, for no other person was with
him but myself when he died.  I protest therefore against the body being examined.  If, however,
you are determined to do so, I warn you that if you find no signs of violence on it, you expose
yourself according to the laws of China to the punishment of death."

"I am quite prepared to take the responsibility," replied the mandarin, "and I have already
ordered the Coroner to open the coffin and to make a careful examination of the body."

This was accordingly done, but no trace of injury, not even the slightest bruise, could be
discovered on any part of the dead man's body.

The county magistrate was greatly distressed at this result of the enquiry, and hastened to
Shih-Kung in order to obtain his advice as to what steps he should now take to escape the punishment
of death which he had incurred by his action.  The Viceroy agreed that the matter had indeed
assumed a most serious aspect.  "But you need not be anxious," he added, "about what you have
done.  You have only acted by my orders, and therefore I assume all responsibility for the
proceedings which you have adopted to discover the murderer."

Late in the afternoon, as the sun began to disappear behind the mountains of the west, Shih-Kung
slipped out by a side door of his yamen, dressed as a peddler of cloth, and with pieces of
various kinds of material resting on his shoulders.  His disguise was so perfect that no one,
as he passed down the street, dreamed of suspecting that instead of being a wandering draper,
he was in reality the Governor-General of the Province, who was trying to obtain evidence of
a murder that had recently been committed in his own capital.

Travelling on down one street after another, Shih-Kung came at last to the outskirts of the
town, where the dwellings were more scattered and the population was less dense. Later it was replaced by oil, but I did not manage to see such a reform.
Under the stairs leading to the boxes was a closed niche blind they called "Don Mateo's box."
This Don Mateo'll talk later.

Then let it be known that in such a tracery of theater represented the same dramas and comedies
that the Prince and the operas were sung at La Scala in Milan. "It seems incredible, eh? Nothing
more true.

    There he first heard the narrator of this
    story those famous verses:

If you hear tell the story of a castaway, Since the earth to the love you miss ...

Certainly that seemed excellent, and the theater a marvel of luxury and good taste. All in the
world depends on the imagination. Hopefully I had so much alive and as fresh as ever to entertain you
nicely several hours. It has also seen the Don Juan Tenorio.

And their late wheat flour-smeared, his commander filtering through a door tied with string,
his hell in spirit of wine and her apotheosis of paper lining trunks, was impressed so that
he could not sleep that night.

In the room going, more or less, as in the most magnificent theaters of the Court. However, it is
generally attended by more than they show.

We had not reached that higher level of refinement, by which actions must be pleasant contrast to the
place where they run, verbi-grace, chat in the theater laughing in the churches, go serious
and silent, and pathetic in the ride, as, fortunately, in Madrid. I do not know if Sarrió have
already climbed to the present time this step of civilization.

Neither created missing some spirits so lucid that was ahead of his time and sensed what was to be
the theater in time. Pablito Belinchón was one of them. Had always paid in the company of three or four
friends, the proscenium stage. From there spoke to other older gentlemen, subscribers in the
box opposite: they said jokes, made fun of the treble or bass, and threw candy and paper darts.
Certainly the public of the seats, still outside the refinements of civilization, used to silence
them savagely with a strong chicheo.

The most important families were accustomed to enter in those boxes hypocritical after the curtain
opened with the same solemnity that if they entered a theater audience at the Royal, and cash
with a lot more noise. Not can well imagine the horrid crack that gave him back to be pushed,
and that drop seat with the intention of attracting attention.

Say if the family currently makes her grand entrance in one of them and remains stand shedding coats,
while the spectators amused for a moment view of the scene and fix them, until they feel. They
are the lords of Belinchón. The head of the family, Don Rosendo, is a tall, thin, bent at the
spine, bald pate, small and sunken eyes, large mouth, which was contracting with a smile Mephistopheles,
showing two rows of teeth long and equal, the most complete work of some established dentist in
a few months ago Sarrió. Spend short sideburns and mustache, and
represents sixty years of age. Is known for the first merchant of
the town and one of the first importers of cod from the Cantabrian
coast. For many years monopolized entirely Wholesale sales of this
article, not only in the village, but throughout the province, and
thanks a result had gained a considerable fortune.

As they sat talking over the meal, they became very friendly and confidential with each other,
and the sam-shu that the son kept drinking from a tiny cup, into which it was poured from a
steaming kettle, had the effect of loosening his tongue and causing him to speak more freely
than he would otherwise have done.

From his long experience of the shady classes of society, Shih-Kung very soon discovered what
kind of a man his companion was, and felt that here was a mine from which he might draw valuable
information to help him in reaching the facts he wished to discover.

Looking across the table at the son, whose face was by this time flushed with the spirit he
had been drinking, and with a hasty glance around the room, as though he were afraid that some
one might overhear him, he said in a low voice, "I want to tell you a great secret.  You have
opened your heart a good deal to me, and now I am going to do the same with you.  I am not
really a peddler of cloth, as I have pretended to be.  I have been simply using that business
to disguise my real occupation, which I do not want anyone to know."

"And what, may I ask, may be the trade in which you are engaged, and of which you seem to be
so ashamed that you dare not openly confess it?" asked the son.

"Well, I am what I call a benevolent thief," replied Shih-Kung.

"A benevolent thief!" exclaimed the other in astonishment.  "I have never heard of such a thing
before, and I should very much like to know what is meant by it."

"I must tell you," explained the guest, "that I am not a common thief who takes the property
of others for his own benefit.  I never steal for myself.  My practice is to find out where
men have made money unjustly, and then by certain means at my command I deprive them of some
of their unlawful gains and distribute them amongst the people they have wronged.  In this
way I have been the means of bringing suitable punishment on the heads of the guilty, and at
the same time of relieving the necessities of those who have suffered at their hands."

"I am astonished at what you tell me," replied the son, "though I do not believe all you say
about not taking a share in the plunder you get.  But now that you have opened your heart to
me, I shall repay your confidence by telling you what I am.  I am a real thief, and I support
my mother, who does not suspect the truth, and keep the home together, simply by what I steal
from others."

He then proceeded to give an account of some of the adventures he had met with in the course
of his expeditions by night to rooms and houses which, as he always found out beforehand by
careful spying, contained valuables that could be easily carried away.

While he was relating these stories, Shih-Kung's eyes gleamed with delight, for he saw that
the man had fallen into the trap which had been laid for him, and felt confident that before
the night was over he would be in possession of some clue to the mystery he was endeavouring
to solve.  He was disgusted with the sordid details of the criminal life of which the man before
him seemed to be proud; yet with wonderful patience this mandarin, with his large powers of
mind, and with a genius for statesmanship which had made him famous throughout the Empire,
sat for hours enduring the wretched talk of this common thief. But his reward came in due time.

"By the way," exclaimed this man whose business it was to break into homes when the small hours
of the morning found their inmates wrapped in slumber, "some time ago I had a most remarkable
experience, and as you have shown yourself such a good fellow, I will tell you about it, if
you do not think it too late to do so."

"I shall be most delighted to hear you relate it," said his guest.  "I have been greatly entertained
by your vivid way of describing the adventures through which you have passed.  You deserve
to be classed amongst the great heroes of old, who have made their names famous by their deeds
of daring.  Go on, I pray you, and tell me the particulars of this unusual experience."

"Well," proceeded the man, "I had very carefully planned to pay a visit to a certain house
just outside the walls of the city.  It was an easy one to get in to without any danger of
being observed, for it was in a quiet street, where passers-by are very few after dark.  It
was a gloomy place after sunset, for the high walls that looked down upon it threw deep and
heavy shadows, which faint-hearted people declare are really unhappy and restless ghosts prowling
about to harass and distress the unwary.

"It was a little after midnight, when with stealthy footsteps I crept along the narrow streets,
keeping as much as I could under cover of the houses, where the darkness lay deepest.  Every
home was hushed in slumber.  The only things that really troubled me were the dogs, which,
with an intelligence far greater than that of their masters, suspected me of some evil purpose,
and barked at me and made wild snaps at my legs.  I managed, however, to evade them and finally
to arrive at the house I intended to rob.

"When I got close up to it, I was surprised to find a light burning inside.  There was another
thing, too, that I could not understand, and this was that a little side door by which I had
planned to enter had not been bolted, but had been left ajar so that any prowling robber could
easily gain admittance through it.  Taking off my shoes, I walked on tiptoe along the stone-paved
courtyard in the direction of the room where the light was burning, and

have had his heart lightened of the load that was weighing it down if I could only have had
the opportunity of whispering a single sentence into his ear."

"It is your duty," interposed his guest, "to proceed to-morrow morning to the mandarin's yamen,
and tell your story to the county magistrate, so that a great wrong may not go unpunished."

"That I can never do," promptly replied the man.  "What do you think would happen were I to
do what you suggest?  I am a thief.  I get my living by thieving.  I was in the house on the
night of the murder for the purpose of robbery.  That would all come out when I give my evidence.
After I had proved the murder, what would become of me?  I should be cast into prison, and
I might have to lie there for years, for who would ever bail out a thief?  And then my poor
mother would starve, for she has to depend on me entirely for her living, and she would be
compelled to go on the streets and beg for charity from door to door.  No, it is impossible
for me ever to interfere in this case."

Shih-Kung recognized the difficulty in which the man was placed, and yet without his evidence
it would be impossible to convict the woman of the crime she had committed.  He accordingly
thought out a plan which he felt would remove the obstacles that stood in the way of securing
him as a witness.

Turning to the man, he said, "I have had a very pleasant evening with you, and I thank you
for your courtesy and hospitality.  I feel my heart moved with a desire for a deeper friendship
than mere words can ever express, and so I propose that you and I become sworn brothers, so
that whatever may befall us in the future we shall stand by each other to the very death."

The young man looked up with astonishment at this unexpected proposal, but the sudden flash
in his eyes and the smile that overspread his countenance showed that it was very pleasing to him.

"I shall be delighted to agree," he quickly replied, "but when shall we have an opportunity
of appearing in the temple, and of registering our vow in the presence of the god?"

"There is no need to go to any temple," Shih-Kung replied.  "Your family idol, which sits over
there enshrined before us, will be quite sufficient for our purpose.  Give me a pen and paper,
and I will write out the articles of our brotherhood and present them to the god."

In a few minutes the document was written out according to the minute rules laid down by the
law which binds two men in a sworn brotherhood. By the most solemn oaths Shih-Kung and this
thief agreed to assist each other in any extremity in which either might be placed in the future.
Any call from one to the other must be instantly responded to.  No danger and no peril to life
or limb must be allowed to deter either of them when the cry for help or deliverance was heard.
Each was to regard the interests of the other as identical with his own, and as long as life
lasted, the obligation to succour in every time of need could never be relaxed or annulled.

To prove that this solemn engagement was no mere passing whim of the moment, it had to be read
in the hearing of the household god, who happened to be the Goddess of Mercy.  She would then
be an everlasting witness of the transaction, and with the invisible forces at her command
would visit pains and penalties on the one who broke his oath. Standing in front of her shrine,
Shih-Kung read out the articles of agreement, word by word, in a slow and measured tone suited
to the solemnity of the occasion.  He then lighted the paper at the lamp, and both men gazed
at it until nothing was left but ashes, when each of them knew that the Goddess had received
the document and had placed it in her archives in the far-off Western Heaven as a record of
the vows made in her presence in those early hours of the morning.

When they sat down again, Shih-Kung looked with a strong and masterful gaze at his newly-created
brother and said to him:--"You and I are now sworn brothers, and of course we must be frank
with each other.  I do not wish to deceive you any longer, so I must tell you that I am neither
a peddler of cloth, nor a benevolent thief in the sense in which you understood the term. 
I am in fact Shih-Kung, the Viceroy of this Province."

No sooner did the man hear the name of this great mandarin, who was a profound source of terror
to the criminals and evil-doers within his jurisdiction, than he fell on his knees before him
in the most abject fright, and repeatedly knocking his head on the ground, besought him to
have mercy on him.

Raising him up gently with his hand, Shih-Kung told him to lay aside all his fears.  "You are
my brother now," he said, "and we have just sworn in the presence of the Goddess to defend
each other with our lives.  I shall certainly perform my part of the oath.  From this moment
your fortune is made; and as for your mother, who received me with such gracious courtesy,
it shall be my privilege to provide for her as long as she lives."

Emboldened by these words of the great statesman, the young man appeared at the second inquest,
which Shih-Kung ordered to be held, and gave such testimony that the guilt of the wretched
wife was clearly established, and due punishment meted out to her.

II

KWANG-JUI AND THE GOD OF THE RIVER

China is a land where the great masses of the people have to toil and struggle incessantly
in order to obtain even the bare necessities of daily existence.  Unnumbered multitudes never
enjoy a sufficiency of food, but have to be contented with whatever Heaven may send them; and
profoundly thankful they are when they can be sure of two meals a day to stave off the pangs
of hunger from themselves and their children.

How many there are who cannot by the severest toil obtain even these two meals is evident from
the organized beggar communities, which are to be found in connection with every great city
in the Empire, and from the vast numbers of tramps, who wander over the country on the highways
and byways with pale and sodden faces and with garments nearly falling to pieces, picking up
a scanty livelihood from the benevolent as they pass from village to village.

Whatever may be their inmost thoughts, the Chinese bear their terrible hardships and privations
with a splendid heroism, with little complaining, with no widespread outbreaks of robbery,
and with no pillaging of rice-shops and public granaries by organized mobs driven mad by hunger.

There is one beautiful feature about the Chinese that has been an important factor in steadying
the nation.  They are imbued with at least one great ideal, which touches their common life
in every direction.  Every man in the Empire, rich or poor, learned or unlearned, has a profound
respect for what he calls Tien-Li, or Divine Righteousness.  By this the Chinese judge all
actions.  It is the standard by which Kings and Princes and common people direct their conduct,
whether in the highest affairs of state, or in the ordinary engagements of common every-day life.

In addition to this, the minds of the Chinese are filled with romance and poetry, so that to
them the invisible world is peopled with fairies and all kinds of spirits, both good and bad,
the former relieving in mysterious ways the dull greyness that sorrow and disaster often shed
upon the lives of men.

The story of Kwang-Jui is a remarkable evidence of the unbounded faith which the Chinese have
in the intervention of these mysterious beings to deliver men from calamities which would otherwise
prove fatal to them.

When we first meet with Kwang-Jui, he is living with his widowed mother in a retired part of
the country.  His father had been dead for some time, and Kwang-Jui was now the only one upon
whom the fortunes of the home could be built.  He was a very studious lad, and was possessed
of remarkable abilities, the result being that he successfully passed the various Imperial
Examinations, even the final one in the capital, where the Sovereign himself presided as examiner.

After this last examination, as the men were waiting outside the Hall for the names of those
who had satisfied the Emperor to be read out a considerable crowd had collected.  Most of these
people had come from mere curiosity to see the Imperial Edict, and to discover who the scholar
was that stood first on the list.  The excitement was intense, and speculation ran rife as
to which of the candidates, who had come from almost every province in the Empire, was going
to obtain the place of honour which was the dream and the ambition of every scholar in the land.

At last every breath was hushed, and every voice stilled in silence, as one of the high officials
of the Palace, attended by an imposing retinue, came out of the great central doors, which
had been flung wide open at his approach.  In a clear voice he began to read the list.  It
was headed by the name of Kwang-Jui.

At this precise moment occurred an incident which was destined to change the whole current
of Kwang-Jui's career.  As he was standing overcome with emotion in consequence of the supreme
honour which had been conferred upon him by the Emperor's Edict, a small round ball, beautifully
embroidered, was thrown from an upper window of a house across the way, and struck him on the
shoulder.

It may here be explained that it was a custom in the early days of the history of China to
allow any young maiden who was reluctant to have her husband chosen for her by her parents,
to make use of what was called "The throwing of the embroidered ball" in order to discover
the man whom the gods intended her to marry.  This ball was made of some soft material, wrapped
round with a piece of red silk which was covered with variegated figures, worked by the damsel's
own hands and emblematic of the love by which the hearts of husband and wife are bound indissolubly
to each other.  It was firmly believed by every maiden of this romantic type that the man who
was struck by the ball from her fair hands was the one whom Heaven had selected as her husband;
and no parent would ever dream of refusing to accept a choice made in this way.

Whilst Kwang-Jui was gazing in amused wonder at the symbol which he understood so well, a messenger
from the house from which it had been thrown requested him in respectful tones to accompany
him to his master, who desired to discuss with him a most important subject.

As Kwang-Jui entered the house, he discovered to his astonishment that it belonged to the Prime
Minister, who received him with the utmost cordiality, and after a long conversation declared
that he was prepared to submit to the will of the gods, and to accept him as his son-in-law.
Kwang-Jui was of course in raptures at the brilliant prospects which were suddenly opening
up before him.  The day, indeed, was a red-letter one--an omen, he hoped, that fate was preparing
to pour down upon him good fortune in the future.  In one brief day he had been hailed as the
most distinguished scholar in the Empire, and he had also been acknowledged as the son-in-law
of the Empire's greatest official, who had the power of placing him in high positions where
he could secure not only honours but also wealth sufficient to drive poverty away for ever
from his home.

As there was no reason for delay, the hand of the beautiful daughter who had thrown the embroidered
ball, and who was delighted that Heaven had chosen for her such a brilliant husband, was bestowed
upon him by her parents.  Times of great rejoicing succeeded, and when Kwang-Jui thought of
the quiet and uninteresting days when he was still unknown to fame, and contrasted them with
his present life, it seemed to him as though he were living in fairy-land.  His wildest dreams
in the past had never conjured up anything so grand as the life he was now leading. In one
bound he had leaped from comparative poverty to fame and riches.

After a time, through the influence of his father-in-law, and with the hearty consent of the
Emperor, who remembered what a brilliant student he had been, Kwang-Jui was appointed to be
Prefect of an important district in the centre of China.

Taking his bride with him, he first of all proceeded to his old home, where his mother was
waiting with great anxiety to welcome her now famous son.  The old lady felt rather nervous
at meeting her new daughter-in-law, seeing that the latter came from a family which was far
higher in rank and far more distinguished than any in her own clan. As it was very necessary
that Kwang-Jui should take up his office as Prefect without any undue delay, he and his mother
and his bride set out in the course of a few days on the long journey to the distant Prefecture,
where their lives were destined to be marred by sorrow and disaster.

They had travelled the greater part of the way, and had reached a country market-town that
lay on their route, when Kwang-Jui's mother, worn out with the toilsome journey, fell suddenly
ill.  The doctor who was called in shook his head and pronounced that she was suffering from
a very serious complaint, which, whilst not necessarily fatal, would necessitate a complete
rest for at least two or three months.  Any further travelling must therefore be abandoned
for the present, as it might be attended with the most serious consequences to the old lady.

Both husband and wife were greatly distressed at the unlucky accident which placed them in
such an awkward position at this wayside inn. They were truly grieved at the serious sickness
of their mother, but they were still more puzzled as to what course they should pursue in these
most trying circumstances.  The Imperial Rescript appointing Kwang-Jui to his office as Prefect
commanded him to take up his post on a certain definite date.  To delay until his mother would
again be able to endure the fatigues of travel was out of the question, as disobedience to
the Emperor's orders would be attended by his grave displeasure.  Eventually his mother suggested
that he and his wife should go on ahead, and that after taking up the duties of his office
he should then delegate them for a time to his subordinates and return to take her home.

This advice Kwang-Jui decided to carry out; though with great reluctance, as he was most unwilling
to abandon his mother to the care of strangers.  He accordingly made all the arrangements he
possibly could for her comfort whilst they were parted from each other; he had servants engaged
to attend upon her, and he left sufficient money with her to meet all her expenses during his
absence.

With a mind full of consideration for his mother, and wishing to show how anxious he was to
give her pleasure, he went out into the market of the town to see if he could buy a certain
kind of fish of which she was passionately fond.  He had hardly got outside the courtyard of
the inn, when he met a fisherman with a very fine specimen of the very fish that he wished
to purchase.

As he was discussing the price with the man, a certain something about the fish arrested his
attention.  There was a peculiar look in its eyes that seemed full of pathos and entreaty.
Its gaze was concentrated upon him, so human-like and with such intensity, that he instinctively
felt it was pleading with him to do something to deliver it from a great disaster.  This made
him look at it more carefully, and to his astonishment the liquid eyes of the fish were still
fixed upon him with a passionate regard that made him quiver with excitement.

"Fisherman," he said, "I want to buy this fish, and here is the price that you ask for it.
I have but one stipulation to make, and that is that you take it to the river from which you
caught it, and set it free to swim away wherever it pleases.  Remember that if you fail to
carry out this part of the bargain, great sorrow will come upon you and your home."

Little did either of them dream that the fish was the presiding God of the River, who for purposes
of his own had transformed himself into this form, and who, while swimming up and down the
stream had been caught in the net of the fisherman.

After travelling for some hours Kwang-Jui and his wife came to the bank of a considerable river,
where they hired a large boat to convey them to their destination.

The boatman they engaged was a man of very low character.  He had originally been a scholar
and of good family, but, utterly depraved and immoral, he had gradually sunk lower and lower
in society, until at last he had been compelled to fly from his home to a distant province,
and there to engage in his present occupation in order to earn his living.  The large amount
of property which Kwang-Jui had with him seemed to arouse the worst passions in this man, and
while the boat was being carried along by a fair wind and a flowing tide, he planned in his
mind how he was to become the possessor of it.  By the time that they reached the place where
they were to anchor for the night, he had already decided what measures he should adopt.

A little after midnight, accordingly, he crept stealthily towards the place where Kwang-Jui
was sleeping, stabbed him to the heart and threw his body into the fast-flowing river.  He
next threatened the wife that if she dared to utter a sound, he would murder her also and send
her to join her husband in the Land of Shadows.  Paralyzed with terror, she remained speechless,
only a stifled sob and groan now and again breaking from her agonized heart.  Her first serious
idea was to commit suicide, and she was preparing to fling herself into the water that gurgled
along the sides of the boat, when she was restrained by the thought that if she destroyed herself,
she would never be able to avenge her husband's death or bring punishment upon the villain
who had just murdered him.

It was not mere robbery, however, that was in the mind of the man who had committed this great
crime.  He had bigger ideas than that.  He had noticed that in personal appearance he very
much resembled his victim, so he determined to carry out the daring project of passing himself
off as Kwang-Jui, the mandarin whom the Emperor had despatched to take up the appointment of
Prefect.

Having threatened the widow that instant death would be her portion if she breathed a word
to anyone about the true state of the case, and having arrayed himself in the official robes
of the man whom he had stabbed to death, the boatman appeared at the yamen, where he presented
the Imperial credentials and was duly installed in his office.  It never entered his mind that
it was not cowardice which kept the widow silent, but the stern resolve of a brave and high-minded
woman that she would do her part to see that vengeance should in time fall upon the man who
had robbed her of a husband whom she looked upon as the direct gift of Heaven.

Now, immediately after the body of Kwang-Jui had been cast into the water, the customary patrol
sent by the God of the River to see that order was kept within his dominions, came upon it,
and conveyed it with all speed into the presence of the god himself.

The latter looked at it intently for a moment, and then exclaimed in great excitement, "Why,
this is the very person who only yesterday saved my life, when I was in danger of being delivered
over to a cruel death!  I shall now be able to show my gratitude by using all the power I possess
to serve his interests.  Bring him to the Crystal Grotto," he continued, "where only those
who have distinguished themselves in the service of the State have ever been allowed to lie.
This man has a claim upon me such as no one before him ever possessed.  He is the saviour of
my life, and I will tenderly care for him until the web of fate has been spun, and, the vengeance
of Heaven having been wreaked upon his murderer, he shall once more rejoin the wife from whom
he has been so ruthlessly torn."

With the passing of the months, the widow of Kwang-Jui gave birth to a son, the very image
of his father.  It was night-time when he was born, and not long after his birth, a mysterious
voice, which could not be traced, was heard distinctly saying, "Let the child be removed without
delay from the yamen, before the return of the Prefect, as otherwise its life will not be safe."

Accordingly, on the morrow, the babe, about whose destiny even Heaven itself seemed concerned,
was carefully wrapped round with many coverings to protect it against the weather.  Inside
the inmost dress, there was enclosed a small document, telling the child's tragic story and
describing the danger from a powerful foe which threatened its life.  In order to be able to
identify her son, it might be after the lapse of many years, the mother cut off the last joint
of the little finger of his left hand; and then, with tears and sighs, and with her heart full
of unspoken agony, she took a last, lingering look upon the face of the little one.

A confidential slave woman carried him out of her room, and by devious ways and secret paths
finally laid him on the river's bank.  Casting a final glance at the precious bundle to see
that no danger threatened it, she hurried back in the direction of the city, with the faint
cries of the abandoned infant still sounding in her ears.

And now the child was in the hands of Heaven.  That this was so was evident from the fact that
in a few minutes the abbot of the monastery, which could be seen crowning the top of a neighbouring
hill, passed along the narrow pathway by the side of the river.  Hearing a baby's cry, he hastened
towards the place from which the sounds came, and picking up the little bundle, and realizing
that the infant had been deserted, he carried it up to the monastery and made every arrangement
for its care and comfort.  Fortunately he was a man of a deeply benevolent nature, and no more
suitable person could have been found to take charge of the child.

We must now allow eighteen years to pass by.  The child that had been left on the margin of
the river had grown up to be a fine, handsome lad.  The abbot had been his friend ever since
the day when his heart had been touched by his cries, and his love for the little foundling
had grown with the years.  The boy had become a kind of son to him, and in order not to be
parted from him he had taught him the temple duties, so that he was now a qualified priest
in the service of the gods.

One morning the young man, whose name was Sam-Choang, came to the abbot with a restless, dissatisfied
look on his face, and begged to be told who his father was, and who his mother.  The old priest,
who had long been aware of the tragic story of Kwang-Jui's murder, felt that the time had come
when the lad ought to know what he had hitherto concealed from him.  Taking out the document
which he had found upon him as a baby, he read it to him, and then the great secret was out.
After this a long and serious discussion took place between the two as to the wisest methods
to be adopted for bringing the Prefect to justice and delivering the lad's mother from the
humiliating position which she had so heroically borne for all these eighteen years.

The next day a young priest, with shaven head and dressed in the usual slate-coloured gown,
appeared at the yamen of the Prefect to solicit subscriptions for the neighbouring monastery.
As the Prefect was absent on some public business, he was ushered into the reception-room,
where he was received by his mother, who had always been a generous supporter of the Goddess
of Mercy.

At the first sight of this striking-looking young bonze, she found her heart agitated in a
strange and powerful way, such as she had not experienced for many a long year; and when she
noticed that the little finger on his left hand was without the last joint, she trembled with
the utmost excitement.

After a few words about the object for which he had come, the young priest slipped into her
hand the very paper which she had written eighteen years ago; and as she looked at her own
handwriting and then gazed into his face and saw the striking likeness to the man at whom she
had thrown the embroidered ball, the mother-instinct within her flashed suddenly out, and she
recognized that this handsome lad was her own son.  The joy of the mother as she looked upon
the face of Sam-Choang was reflected in the sparkling eyes and glowing look of pleasure that
lit up his whole countenance.

Retiring for a short time his mother returned with a letter which she handed to him.  In a
low voice she told him that it was to her father, who still lived in the capital, and to whom
he was to take it without any delay.  In order to prevent suspicion on the part of the Prefect,
he was to travel as a priest, who was endeavouring to obtain subscriptions for his monastery.
He was to be sure, also, to visit the place where his grandmother had been left, and to try
and find out what had become of her.  In order to defray his expenses she gave him a few bars
of gold, which he could exchange for the current money at the banks on the way.

When Sam-Choang arrived at the inn where his father had parted with his grandmother, he could
find no trace of her.  A new landlord was in possession, who had never even heard her name;
but on enquiring amongst the shopkeepers in the neighbourhood, he found to his horror that
she was now a member of the beggars' camp, and that her name was enrolled amongst that degraded
fraternity.

On reaching the wretched hovel where she was living, he discovered that when her money was
exhausted and no remittance came to her from her son, she had been driven out on to the street
by the innkeeper, and from that time had tramped the country, living on the scraps and bits
which were bestowed upon her by the benevolent.  Great was her joy when her grandson led her
away to the best inn in the place, and on his departure gave her an ample supply of money for
all her needs until they should meet again.

When Sam-Choang reached the capital and handed his mother's letter to his grandfather, the
most profound excitement ensued.  As soon as the Emperor was officially informed of the case,
he determined that the severest punishment should be inflicted upon the man who had not only
committed a cruel murder, but through it had dared to usurp a position which could only be
held at the Sovereign's command.  An Imperial Edict was accordingly issued ordering the Prime
Minister to take a considerable body of troops and proceed with all possible speed to the district
where such an unheard-of crime had been committed, and there to hand over the offender to immediate
execution.

By forced marches, so as to outstrip any private intelligence that might have been sent from
the capital, the avenging force reached the city a little before the break of day.  Here they
waited in silence outside the city gates, anxiously listening for the boom of the early gun
which announces the dawn, and at the same time causes the gates to be flung wide open for the
traffic of the day to commence.

As soon as the warders had admitted the waiting crowd outside, the soldiers, advancing at a
run, quickly reached the yamen, and arrested the Prefect.  Without form of trial but simply
with a curt announcement from the Prime Minister that he was acting upon instructions from
the Emperor, the mandarin was dragged unceremoniously through the gaping crowds that rushed
from their doors to see the amazing spectacle.

The feet of Fate had marched slowly but with unerring certainty, and had at last reached the
wretched criminal.

But where was he being taken?  This road did not lead to the execution ground, where malefactors
were doomed to end their careers in shame. Street after street was passed, and still the stern-faced
soldiers forced the mandarin down the main thoroughfares, whose sides had often been lined
with respectful crowds as he swept by with his haughty retinue.  At last they reached the city
gate, through which they marched, and then on towards the river, which could be seen gleaming
like a silver thread in the distance.

Arrived at its bank, the troops formed into a square with the prisoner in the centre.  Addressing
him, the Prime Minister said, "I have selected this spot rather than the public execution ground
where criminals are put to death.  Your crime has been no common one; and so to-day, in the
face of high Heaven whose righteousness you have dared to violate, and within sound of the
flowing waters of the stream that witnessed the murder, you shall die."

Half a dozen soldiers then threw him violently to the ground, and in a few minutes the executioner
had torn his bleeding heart from his bosom. Then, standing with it still in his hand, he waited
by the side of the Prime Minister, who read out to the great multitude the indictment which
had been drawn up against the Prefect.  In this he described his crimes, and at the same time
appealed to Heaven and to the God of the River to take measures to satisfy and appease the
spirit of him who had been cut off in the prime of life by the man who had just been executed.

As soon as the reading of the document had been concluded, it was set fire to and allowed to
burn until only the blackened ashes remained. These, together with the criminal's heart, were
then cast into the river.  They were thus formally handed over to the god, who would see that
in the Land of Shadows there should come a further retribution on the murderer for the crimes
he had committed on earth.

The water patrol happened to pass by soon after the ashes and heart had been flung into the
river, and picking them up most carefully, they carried them to the official residence of the
god.  The indictment was at once formally entered amongst the archives of the office, to be
used as evidence when the case was in due time brought before the notice of Yam-lo: and after
looking at the heart with the intensest scrutiny for some little time, the god exclaimed, "And
so the murderer has at last received some part of the punishment he so richly deserved.  It
is now time for me to awake the sleeping husband, so that he may be restored to the wife from
whom he has been separated for eighteen years."

Passing into the Crystal Grotto, where the unconscious form of Kwang-Jui had reposed for so
many years, the god touched the body gently with his hand, and said:--"Friend, arise!  Your
wife awaits you, and loving ones who have long mourned you.  Many years of happiness are still
before you, and the honours that your Sovereign will bestow upon you shall place you amongst
the famous men of the State.  Arise, and take your place once more amongst the living!"

The Prime Minister was sitting with his daughter, listening to the sad story of the years of
suffering through which she had passed, when the door was silently opened, and the figure of
her long-lost husband glided in.  Both started up in fear and amazement, for they believed
that what they saw was only a restless spirit which had wandered from the Land of Shadows and
would speedily vanish again from their sight. In this, however, they were delightfully disappointed.
Kwang-Jui and his wife were once more reunited, and for many a long year their hearts were
so full of gladness and contentment, that the sorrows which they had endured gradually became
effaced from their memories.  They always thought with the deepest gratitude of the God of
the River, who for eighteen years had kept the unconscious husband alive and had finally restored
him to his heart-broken wife.

III

THE BEAUTIFUL DAUGHTER OF LIU-KUNG

In one of the central provinces of this long-lived Empire of China, there lived in very early
times a man of the name of Chan.  He was a person of a bright, active nature which made him
enjoy life, and caused him to be popular amongst his companions and a favourite with every
one who knew him.  But he was also a scholar, well-versed in the literature of his country,
and he spent every moment that he could spare in the study of the great writings of the famous
men of former days.

In order that he might be interrupted as little as possible in his pursuit of learning, he
engaged a room in a famous monastery some miles away from his own home.  The only inhabitants
of this monastery were a dozen or so of Buddhist priests, who, except when they were engaged
in the daily services of the temple, lived a quiet, humdrum, lazy kind of existence which harmonized
well with the solitude and the majestic stillness of the mountain scenery by which they were
surrounded.

This monastery was indeed one of the most beautiful in China.  It was situated on the slope
of a hill, looking down upon a lovely valley, where the natural solitude was as complete as
the most devoted hermit could desire.  The only means of getting to it were the narrow hill
footpaths along which the worshippers from the great city and the scattered villages wound
in and out on festal days, when they came trooping to the temple to make their offerings to
the famous God enshrined within.

Chan was a diligent student, and rarely indulged in recreation of any kind.  Occasionally,
when his mind became oppressed with excessive study he would go for a quiet walk along the
hillside; but these occasions were few and far between, for he made up for every hour he spent
away from his beloved books by still closer application to them in the hours that followed.

One day he was strolling in an aimless kind of way on the hillside, when suddenly a party of
hunters from the neighbouring city of Eternal Spring came dashing into view.  They were a merry
group and full of excitement, for they had just sighted a fox which Chan had seen a moment
before flying away at its highest speed in mortal dread of its pursuers.

Prominent amongst the hunters was a young girl, who was mounted on a fiery little steed, so
full of spirit and so eager to follow in the mad chase after the prey, that its rider seemed
to have some difficulty in restraining it.  The girl herself was a perfect picture.  Her face
was the loveliest that Chan had ever looked upon, and her figure, which her trim hunting dress
showed off to the utmost advantage, was graceful in the extreme.  As she swept by him with
her face flushed with excitement and her features all aglow with health, Chan felt at once
that he had lost his heart and that he was deeply and profoundly in love with her.

On making enquiries, he found that she was named Willow, that she was the daughter of the chief
mandarin of the town in which she lived, and that she was intensely fond of the chase and delighted
in galloping over the hills and valleys in the pursuit of the wild animals to be found there.
So powerfully had Chan's mind been affected by what he had seen of Willow, that he had already
begun to entertain serious thoughts of making her his wife; but while his mind was full of
this delightful prospect he was plunged into the deepest grief by hearing that she had suddenly
died.  For some days he was so stricken with sorrow that he lost all interest in life, and
could do nothing but dwell on the memory of her whom he had come to love with all the devotion
of his heart.

A few weeks after the news of her death, the quiet of the retreat was one day broken by a huge
procession which wound its way along the mountain path leading to the monastery doors.  On
looking out, Chan saw that many of the men in this procession were dressed in sackcloth, and
that in front of it was a band of musicians producing weird, shrill notes on their various
instruments.

By these signs Chan knew that what he saw was a funeral, and he expected to see the long line
of mourners pass on to some spot on the hillside where the dead would be buried.  Instead of
that, however, they entered through the great gates of the monastery, and the coffin, the red
pall of which told him that it contained the body of a woman, was carried into an inner room
of the building and laid on trestles that had been made ready for it.

After the mourners had dispersed, Chan asked one of the priests the name of the woman who had
died, and how it was that the coffin was laid within the precincts of the temple instead of
in the house of the deceased, where it could be looked after by her relatives and where the
customary sacrifices to the spirit of the dead could be offered more conveniently than in the
monastery.

The bonze replied that this was a peculiar case, calling for special treatment.

"The father of the poor young girl who died so suddenly," he said, "was the mandarin of the
neighbouring city of Eternal Spring.  Just after the death of his daughter an order came from
the Emperor transferring him to another district, a thousand miles from here.

"The command was very urgent that he should proceed without delay to take up his post in the
far-off province, and that he was to allow nothing to hinder him from doing so.  He could not
carry his daughter's body with him on so long a journey, and no time was permitted him to take
the coffin to his home, where she might be buried amongst her own kindred.  It was equally
impossible to deposit the coffin in the yamen he was about to leave, for the new mandarin who
was soon to arrive would certainly object to have the body of a stranger in such close proximity
to his family.  It might bring him bad luck, and his career as an official might end in disaster.

"Permission was therefore asked from our abbot to allow the coffin to be placed in one of our
vacant rooms, until the father some day in the future can come and bear the body of his beloved
daughter to the home of his ancestors, there to be laid at rest amongst his own people.

"This request was readily granted, for whilst he was in office the mandarin showed us many
favours, and his daughter was a beautiful girl who was beloved by everyone; and so we were
only too glad to do anything in our power to help in this unhappy matter."

Chan was profoundly moved when he realized that the woman whom he had loved as his own life
lay dead within a chamber only a few steps away from his own.  His passion, instead of being
crushed out of his heart by the thought that she was utterly beyond his reach, and by no possibility
could ever be more to him than a memory, seemed to grow in intensity as he became conscious
that it was an absolutely hopeless one.

On that very same evening, about midnight, when silence rested on the monastery, and the priests
were all wrapped in slumber, Chan, with a lighted taper in his hand, stole with noiseless footsteps
along the dark passages into the chamber of death where his beloved lay. Kneeling beside the
coffin with a heart full of emotion, in trembling accents he called upon Willow to listen to
the story of his passion.

He spoke to her just as though she were standing face to face with him, and he told her how
he had fallen in love with her on the day on which he had caught a glimpse of her as she galloped
in pursuit of the fox that had fled through the valley from the hunters.  He had planned, he
told her, to make her his wife, and he described, in tones through which the tears could be
heard to run, how heart-broken he was when he heard of her death.

"I want to see you," he continued, "for I feel that I cannot live without you.  You are near
to me, and yet oh! how far away.  Can you not come from the Land of Shadows, where you are
now, and comfort me by one vision of your fair face, and one sound of the voice that would
fill my soul with the sweetest music?"

For many months the comfort of Chan's life was this nightly visit to the chamber where his
dead love lay.  Not a single night passed without his going to tell her of the unalterable
and undying affection that filled his heart; and whilst the temple lay shrouded in darkness,
and the only sounds that broke the stillness were those inexplicable ones in which nature seems
to indulge when man is removed by sleep from the scene, Chan was uttering those love notes
which had lain deeply hidden within his soul, but which now in the utter desolation of his
heart burst forth to ease his pain by their mere expression.

One night as he was sitting poring over his books, he happened to turn round, and was startled
to see the figure of a young girl standing just inside the door of his room.  It seemed perfectly
human, and yet it was so ethereal that it had the appearance of a spirit of the other world.
As he looked at the girl with a wondering gaze, a smile lit up her beautiful features, and
he then discovered to his great joy that she was none other than Willow, his lost love whom
he had despaired of ever seeing again.

With her face wreathed in smiles, she sat down beside him and said in a timid, modest way:--"I
am here to-night in response to the great love which has never faltered since the day I died.
That is the magnet which has had the power of drawing me from the Land of Shadows.  I felt
it there, and many speak about it in that sunless country.  Even Yam-lo, the lord of the spirits
of that dreary world, has been moved by your unchanging devotion; so much so that he has given
me permission to come and see you, in order that I might tell you how deeply my heart is moved
by the profound affection that you have exhibited for me all these months during which you
never had any expectation of its being returned."

For many months this sweet intercourse between Chan and his beloved Willow was carried on,
and no one in the whole monastery knew anything of it.  The interviews always took place about
midnight, and Willow, who seemed to pass with freedom through closed doors or the stoutest
walls, invariably vanished during the small hours of the morning.

One evening whilst they were conversing on topics agreeable to them both, Willow unburdened
her heart to Chan, and told him how unhappy she was in the world of spirits.

"You know," she said, "that before I died I was not married, and so I am only a wandering spirit
with no place where I can rest, and no friends to whom I can betake myself.  I travel here
and there and everywhere, feeling that no one cares for me, and that there are no ties to bind
me to any particular place or thing.  For a young girl like me, this is a very sad and sorrowful
state of things.

"There is another thing that adds to my sorrow in the Land of Shadows," she went on to say,
with a mournful look on her lovely countenance.  "I was very fond of hunting when I was in
my father's home, and many a wild animal was slain in the hunting expeditions in which I took
an active part.  This has all told against me in the world in which I am now living, and for
the share I took in destroying life I have to suffer by many pains and penalties which are
hard for me to endure.

"My sin has been great," she said, "and so I wish to make special offerings in this temple
to the Goddess of Mercy and implore her to send down to the other world a good report of me
to Yam-lo, and intercede with him to forgive the sins of which I have been guilty.  If you
will do this for me, I promise that after I have been born again into the world I will never
forget you, and if you like to wait for me I shall willingly become your wife and serve you
with the deepest devotion of which my heart is capable, as long as Heaven will permit you and
me to live together as husband and wife."

From this time, much to the astonishment of the priests in the monastery, Chan began to show
unwonted enthusiasm for the service of the Goddess, and would sometimes spend hours before
her image and repeat long prayers to her.  This was all the more remarkable, as the scholar
had rarely if ever shown any desire to have anything to do with the numerous gods which were
enshrined in various parts of the temple.

After some months of this daily appeal to the Goddess of Mercy, Willow informed him that his
prayers had been so far successful that the misery of her lot in the Land of Shadows had been
greatly mitigated. The pleadings of the Goddess with Yam-lo had so influenced his heart towards
Willow that she believed her great sin in the destruction of animal life had been forgiven,
and there were signs that the dread ruler of the Underworld was looking upon her with kindness.

Chan was delighted with this news, and his prayers and offerings became still more frequent
and more fervent.  He little dreamed that his devotion to the Goddess would be the means of
his speedy separation from Willow, but so it was.  One evening she came as usual to see him,
but instead of entering with smiling face and laughter in her eyes, she was weeping bitterly
as though she were in the direst sorrow.

Chan was in the greatest distress when he saw this and asked her to explain the reason for
her grief.  "The reason for my tears," she said, "is because after this evening I shall not
see you again.  Your petitions to the Goddess have had such a powerful effect upon her mind
that she has used all her influence with Yam-lo to induce him to set me free from the misery
of the Land of Shadows, and so I am to leave that sunless country and to be born again into
life in this upper world."

As she uttered these words her tears began to flow once more and her whole frame was convulsed
with sobbing.

"I am glad," she said, "that I am to be born once more and live amongst men, but I cannot bear
the thought of having to be separated for so long from you.  Let us not grieve too much, however.
It is our fate, and we may not rebel against it.  Yam-lo has been kinder to me than he has
ever been to any one in the past, for he has revealed to me the family into which I am to be
born and the place where they live, so if you come to me in eighteen years you will find me
waiting for you. Your love has been so great that it has entered into my very soul, and there
is nothing that can ever efface it from my heart.  A thousand re-births may take place, but
never shall I love any one as I love you."

Chan professed that he was greatly comforted by this confession of her love, but all the same
he felt in despair when he thought of the future.

"When next I shall see you," he said with a sigh, "I shall be getting so old that you, a young
girl in the first flush of womanhood, will not care to look at me.  My hair will have turned
grey and my face will be marked with wrinkles, and in the re-birth you will have forgotten
all that took place in the Land of Shadows, and the memory of me will have vanished from your
heart for ever."

Willow looked with loving but sorrowful eyes upon her lover as he was expressing his concern
about the future, but quickly assured him that nothing in the world would ever cause her to
cease to remember him with the tenderest affection.

"In order to comfort you," she said, "let me tell you of two things that the dread Yam-lo,
out of consideration for your love for me, has granted me--two things which he has never bestowed
upon any other mortal who has come within the region of his rule.  The first is, he has allowed
me to inspect the book of Life and Death, in which is recorded the history of every human being,
with the times of their re-births and the places in which they are to be born.  I want you
this very minute to write down the secret which has been revealed to me as to my new name and
family and the place where I shall reside, so that you will have no difficulty in finding me,
when eighteen years hence you shall come to claim me as your wife.

"The next is a gift so precious that I have no words in which to express my gratitude for its
having been bestowed upon me.  It is this. I am given the privilege of not forgetting what
has taken place during my stay in the Land of Shadows, and so when I am re-born into another
part of China, with a new father and mother, I shall hold within my memory my recollection
of you.  The years will pass quickly, for I shall be looking for you, and this day eighteen
years hence will be the happiest in my life, for it will bring you to me never more to be separated
from me.

"But I must hasten on," she hurriedly exclaimed, "for the footsteps of fate are moving steadily
towards me.  In a few minutes the gates of Hades will have closed against me, and Willow will
have vanished, and I shall be a babe once more with my new life before me.  See, but a minute
more is left me, and I seem to have so much to say.  Farewell! Never forget me!  I shall ever
remember you, but my time is come!"

As she uttered these words, a smile of ineffable sweetness flashed across, her beautiful face,
and she was gone.

Chan was inexpressibly sad at the loss he had sustained by the re-birth of Willow, and in order
to drive away his sorrow he threw his heart and soul into his studies.  His books became his
constant companions, and he tried to find in them a solace for the loneliness which had come
upon him since the visits of Willow had ceased.  He also became a diligent worshipper of the
idols, and especially of the Goddess of Mercy, who had played such an important part in the
history of his beloved Willow.

The years went slowly by, and Chan began to feel that he was growing old.  His hair became
dashed with silver threads, and wrinkles appeared in his forehead and under his eyes.  The
strain of waiting for the one woman who had taken complete possession of his heart had been
too much for him.  As the time drew near, too, when he should go to meet her, a great and nervous
dread began to fill him with anxiety.  Would she recognize him?  And would she, a young girl
of eighteen, be content to accept as a husband a man so advanced in years as he now was?  These
questions were constantly flashing through his brain.

At last only a few months remained before he was to set out on his journey to the distant province
where Yam-lo had decided that Willow was to begin her new life on earth.

He was sitting one evening in his study, brooding over the great problem that would be solved
before long, when a man dressed in black silently entered the room.  Looking on Chan with a
kindly smile which seemed to find its way instantly to his heart, he informed him that he was
a fairy from the Western Heaven and that he had been specially deputed by the rulers there
to render him all the assistance in his power at this particular crisis, when they knew his
heart was so full of anxiety.

"We have all heard in that far-off fairyland," he continued, "of the devotion you have shown
to Willow, and how during all the years which have intervened since you saw her last you have
never faltered in your love for her.  Such affection is rare among mortals, and the dwellers
in fairyland would like to help in bringing together two such loving hearts; for let me assure
you that however strong your feeling for the one whom you are so anxious to see again, she
on her part is just as deeply in love with you, and is now counting the days until she will
be able to see you and until you need never again be parted from each other.  In order to assist
in this happy consummation, I want you to take a short trip with me.  It will only take a few
hours, and you will then find that something has happened to remove all your fears as to how
you will be received by Willow."

The fairy man then led Chan to the door, and gave a wave of his hand in the direction of the
sky.  Instantly the sound of the fluttering and swish of wings was heard, and in a moment a
splendid eagle landed gracefully at their feet.  Taking their seats upon its back, they found
themselves flashing at lightning speed away through the darkness of the night.  Higher and
higher they rose, till they had pierced the heavy masses of clouds which hung hovering in the
sky.  Swift as an arrow the eagle still cleft its way upward until the clouds had vanished
to an infinite distance below them; and still onward they were borne in the mighty stillness
of an expanse where no human being had ever travelled before.

Chan felt his heart throb with a nervousness which he could not control.  What if the bird
should tire, he thought, and he should be dropped into the fathomless abyss below?  Life's
journey would then come to a tragic end.  Where, too, was he being carried and how should he
be ever able to return to his far-off home on the earth?  He was becoming more and more agitated,
when the fairy took hold of his hand and in a voice which at once stilled his fears, assured
him that there was not the least danger in this journey through the air.

"We are as safe here," he assured him, "as though we were standing upon a mountain whose roots
lie miles below the surface of the earth.  And see," he continued, pointing to something in
the distance, "we shall arrive at our destination in the course of a few seconds."

True enough, he had hardly finished speaking when a land, fairer than Chan had ever seen on
earth or pictured in imagination, loomed up suddenly in front of them; and before he could
gather together his astonished thoughts, the eagle had landed them on its shores, and with
outspread wings was soaring into the mystery of the unknown beyond.

The fairy now led Chan along a road surrounded by the most bewildering beauty.  Rare flowers,
graceful trees, and birds which made the groves resound with the sweetest music, were objects
that kept his mind in one continual state of delight.  Before long they arrived in front of
a magnificent palace, so grand and vast that Chan felt afraid to enter within its portals,
or even tread the avenue leading up to it.

Once more his companion relieved Chan's anxiety by assuring him that he was an expected guest,
and that the Queen of this fairy country had sent him to earth specially to invite him to come
and visit her, in order that she might bestow upon him a blessing which would enrich the whole
of his life and would enable him to spend many happy years with her whom he had loved with
such devotion.

Chan was ushered into a large reception hall, where he was met by a very stately lady, with
a face full of benevolence, whom he at once recognized, from the images he had often worshipped,
as the Goddess of Mercy.  He was startled when he discovered in what august presence he was
standing, and began to tremble with excitement as he realized that here in actual life was
the famous personage whose image was worshipped by the millions of China, and whose influence
spread even into the Land of Shadows. One can not say
what they are capable people. So many things happening now that were not in my time ...! At least
what we tried was careless of you to take scissors and tris! lie down hair. It would be a shame,
because you have very beautiful. Also, that hair is not yours, but to the Virgin, who saved you from
this serious illness ... Remember! I offered that if you wore your hair give him good to decorate
your effigy in Santa Catalina. Do not trust I say.

As he spoke he held his head between both hands granddaughter and she spilled the copious curls
in the back and shoulders.

- Yes, "replied Cecilia pursing her lips and lifting with the front
air of disdain, as I'm so stupid to deceive me so, so ...

- However,
the daughter, the best of the dice is not playing them.

I well know you're a girl docile and understood, but I'm certain you do not know these people.
Look, do not listen to them, although boneless dry them calling you, do not go where they are. But
now I remember: the best is that for a hundred miles around them get close by. Later that same
man you say that wherever you clothing you sulking. God knows who will! Although we should not
think ill of anyone, however, such as a saint can be one of ... (And is crossed without concluding
the word.) The Lord be with us. In addition, Cecilia, you're very innocent, somewhat bewildered,
and in that house ... Do you not know? There is a witch who steals the pretty girls. By miracle
of His Divine Majesty has escaped. You were there in the afternoon, right?

- In the evening, had not yet turned on the lights in the houses.

- Woe to you if you get to go at night!

Now do not go further in your life to that house, or passes not around the block.

- Anja!

With living there also a big boy and that the bullet all the time for Santa Teresa with a book under
his arm. Whenever I go I want to fuck, I run back and knows my name ...

- Student, wicked, as all of them. At least he dropped the nails at the same Barabbas. But I see
that you have a rock hard head, and even though I eagerly to advise
you do not get anything.

In fact, who has seen so pretty a girl like you whipping walk the streets, with drag and sandals loose
and disheveled hair, until late over many of the night? Who learn
these bad habits?

Why do not you tell me where?

- And Nemesia, the daughter of breast Pepper musician, is not being on the street until ten o'clock?
Last night nothing less stumbled on the square of Christ lunita playing with a lot of guys.

- And do you want to compare with the daughter of breast Pimienta, a shabby Pardito, street, and
poor maid? When you least expect to bring that spirit-home on a table with the head split into two
pieces. The goat, daughter, always changes its spots. You are better born than she. Your father
is a white knight, and some day you must be rich and carriage ride. Who knows? Nemesia but will
never be more than what it is. Get married, if married, with a mulatto like her because his father
has more black than anything else. You, on the contrary, you can almost white aspire to marry
a white. Why not?

God made us less. And you should know that white though poor, is
for husband, black or mulatto and the ox of gold.

I speak from experience ... As I was married twice ... Do not remember things past. If you
knew what happened a little girl, near your age, for ignoring the advice of his grandmother,
which predicted that if he was to walk the streets late at night was going to happen very unfortunate
...

- Tell me about it, tell me, Chepilla repeated the girl with such curiosity.

- Well, sir, a very dark night, the wind was blowing strong, certainly was a day St. Bartholomew,
which, as I've said before, you release the devil from the three pm, Narcisa was the girl that
it was his name, sat singing softly in the stone doorway of his house while his grandmother prayed
cornered behind the window ... I remember like it was now.

Well, sir, had touched souls in the Holy Spirit and the wind was off the few lights, the streets
were very dark, quiet and lonely, as pitch.

Well as I was saying, the girl singing and the old praying the rosary, when being so, cate you
hear a violin playing there in return Angel. What is included the Narcisa? That was a thing of
dancing, and without asking her grandmother, oste unsaid or moste, he ran and never stopped
until the hill. So the old finished praying, believing that his granddaughter was in bed, as was
natural, closed the door.

- And on the street left the poor girl? Cecilia interrupted the counting samples of anxiety
and pity.

- Now you'll see. The old lady, before bed, because it was late and fell sleep, took a candle
and went to the cot to see if her granddaughter was sleeping. Imagine what it would not stay that
loved her so much, to find the bed empty. He ran to the front door, opened it, shouted to her
granddaughter: Narcisa! Narcisa! But Narcisa not responding. Already seen, how he to answer
the unhappy if the devil had taken?

- How was that? embarrassed the girl asked.

- I'll tell you, Hump sign calmly continued, noting that it had the desired effect his fairy stories.
Well, sir, Narcisa reaching the five corners of the Angel, he appeared
a very handsome young man who asked him where he was going at that
hour of the night .-- A view a dance, "replied the innocent .-- I'll
take you," replied the young man and taking her by the arm took her
to the wall.

Although it was very dark, Narcisa noticed that as they walk the unknown was put tight, very
tight, such as coal, that the hairs on your head as you straighten Lesnar, that the sizes teeth
sticking out laughing as pig boar, who was born two horns on their foreheads, who dragged a
furry tail on the ground, come on, it got heated by mouth as a bread oven. Narcisa then screamed
in horror and tried to escape, but the figure brown dug her nails into her throat when she screamed,
and loading with her, he climbed the tower of the Angel, who, as you've noticed, has no cross,
and from there threw in a very profound hole that opened and closed again swallowing it in
an instant. Well, that is, daughter, what happens to girls who do not heed the advice of their
elders.

Given here in order to sign his story and began Chepa admiration,
fear of Cecilia, which he trembled from head to toe and give teeth
chattering, but constantly yawning, because most was the dream that
the fear with which, stumbling, he went to bed, which is what throw
the wily old.

     Many other stories like
     that did to the girl wandering; but
     we are sure that no other fruit brought
     with them to fill your head
     with superstitions and daunted his spirit.

         That is not why he left the girl to your liking, escaping sometimes
through the window, taking advantage of the time other than sent to
the tavern immediate corner to beating from street to street and from
square to square, when after the incentive of a dance music, when
the drums after the handover, when the carriages the funeral, when,
finally, the bog schoolboy who snatches the silver through baptism.

CHAPTER IV

Bring thought Full of impudence, and spill In clumsy thousand raucous voices That infects the
wind And highly publicized what they love.

GONZALEZ CARVAJAL

Five or six years after the time of which we have undertaken in the
previous two chapters, at the end of September, had first the convent
of the Merced to the series of trade fairs that until the year 1832,
used to solemnize the main events in Cuba religious dedicated to the
patron saints of the churches and convents sometimes overlapping novenarios
with circular Sacramento, introduced the cult of Cuba since the early
years of century by Bishop Espada y Landa.

The Novena, by the way say, nine days before the date on which the saint fell employer and lasted
until nine, which was completed two ninths row. Is said eighteen holidays, religious and secular,
who had more than grotesque and irreverent that devout and edifying. At that time it was said High
Mass with morning sermon and save raw singing night inside the church with a procession through
the streets of the holy day.

Outside the temple there was what was meant by fair in Cuba, which reduced the accumulation
in the plaza or in the neighboring streets, countless stalls, consistent on a table or board scissors,
covered with an awning and lighted by one or more lamps to burn fat, where it was sold, not indeed
any article of trade or commerce country or product of the soil, hunting, bird or livestock,
but only very low level trinkets of value, jams of various kinds, cakes, play dough, hazelnuts,
icing, water and punch Loja milk. That was not fair in the direct sense of the word.

But this was certainly not the most remarkable feature of our holiday pie. Had in show something
that was notable for too rude and insolent. We now incur at stake games and hands that were part
of the show and that caused his stupendous while lying profits, greed
for the unwary.

Directed and implemented the most black men and the worst kind. While crude artifice, trick did
not stop many who considered themselves very astute. These took place in the plaza or in the
street, the dim light of candles or lanterns, and people taking part in them of all kinds, conditions,
ages and sexes. For high social position, we mean for whites, there was something more decent,
had the house of dance, where a Farruco, a Brito a Illas or Marqués de Casa Calvo had placed
the bench or play from the dark forest until after midnight, while lasted eighteen days of
the fair.

We tried the house or houses as they were dancing neighbor to the parish could or convent where
the novena is held. In the room we danced, played in the dining room orchestra, and in the
yard playing a game known as the Mt. The table was long and narrow that would fit most of the
players sitting on either side, the dealer to a head and the other his assistant who say gurrupié.
For the protection of players and cards, in case of rain, frequent in the fall, an awning was
stretched from the eaves of the house the bridge of the dividing wall of the neighbor. Not all
gamblers, to our shame be said, were the stronger sex, older, or
the class willing, in the crowded group and demanding of those who
risked the fate of a letter, perhaps the support of his family the
next day, or the honor of the wife, daughter or sister, could lie
to see busiest lady who gamble their own decency, or still beardless
boy or a friar mercenary serge habits straw color, with wide-brimmed
hat pulled down, the accounts of the long string between the thumb
and forefinger of his left hand and right employed to place the gold
or silver coin at the point that the more he, losing or gaining always
with the same serenity of mind to face.

The banker, to call by name more decent, was who was spending the rent house, the music and
the sperm candles lit the room to dance dining and game table. All this was done to attract players.
The input of course, was free, although the bastonero, who also threw salary, did not admit
any kind person. At that time ran very strong currency, the hard Spanish and ounces gold. The silver
often small, and it was something to hear the tinkle of pesos to continuous columnar and sound
ounces, the gamblers dropped mechanically from one hand to another or on the table to distract
the mind and somehow break the solemn silence of random game.

That nothing here is drawn in broad strokes was banned or not more than tolerated by constituted
authorities, it is clear from the fact that the gambling dens in Cuba paid a contribution to
the government for alleged objects of charity. What else? Advertising that ride was played
all over the island especially during the last period the Captain General Don Francisco Dionisio
Vives, announced, to leave no doubt that his policy or his government was based on the Machiavellian
principle of purchase for master, copying the other famous Roman
statesman: divide et impera.

Because equivalent to break the mood, the corrupt, which is not the people saw their own misery
and degradation.

But this digression, however necessary it might be, we have deviated somewhat from the target point
of this history. Drew our attention to an entire class dance floor which flourished in the precincts
of the city by the side facing south. The house where he had indeed offered mean appearance,
not by its facade down and dirty as the place where he was, which was none other than the gated San
Jose, opposite the wall on a street honda and stony. Although wide door with flap, was not what
was meant in Cuba hallway, then right to the room opened. After this came the room with the
corresponding tinajero, pyramidal cedar frame, which often locked shutters stone filter, the
jar red-bellied, the vases, a kind of terra cotta and pale alcarrazas of Valencia, Spain.
The dining room that was the side door of the first room, busy mostly by two orders of red
cowhide chairs, a bed with hangings white muslin and a cabinet, which said in Havana window.
Other rooms were to that, crowded with ordinary furniture, and parallel to them a long, narrow courtyard,
also blocked in part by the high parapet of a well whose waters brackish
with the adjoining house divided, finished patio rooms and a parlor
crossed and free.

The latter was a regular size table, dressed and prepared with utensils and for up to ten people,
some soft drinks and delicacies, Loja water, lemonade, wine candy, jams Cake, covered, sighing,
meringues, a ham decorated with loops ribbons and confetti, and a large fish swimming about
in a thick sauce of strong seasoning. In the room there were many ordinary wooden chairs placed
along the walls, and right as one enters from the street, a couch, with several stands up
straight ahead. He, at the time that our story begins, he occupied up to seven black and mulatto
musicians three violins, a bass, a flute, a pair of drums and a clarinet. The last instruments
mentioned herein was conducted by a young mulatto, well built and
not evil like face, who, despite his few years, led the little band.

This was seen standing at the head of the couch on the side of the street. His colleagues, almost
all older than him, Pepper said, and it was a nickname, and his true
surname, he appointed from now on.

His gaze distracted and even gloomy, never left the front door, as if expecting something
or someone, just when we speak now.

But that door, as well as square frame window, looked besieged a crowd of onlookers of all ages and
conditions, which only allowed access to the room women and men with right or desire to enter.
And we will, because rightly or had no ballot, nor did bastonero you receive or settle. The dance,
knowingly was one of those who, without knowing its origin, called cradle in Havana. We only
know that were given fair time, which they had free entry of individuals of both sexes color class,
but he also refuses to honor young white men who used with their presence. The fact, however,
be prepared inside a good drink, test if this was a crib in the broad sense of the word, at least
part of the attendance at the invitation had been received or expected to be well received.
This was in fact truth. The mistress of the house, rich and lavish mulatto, named Mercedes, was celebrating
his saint union of their particular friends, and opened the doors
to enjoy the dance fans this fun and contribute their presence to
more luster and interest of the meeting.

Eight o'clock at night. From the afternoon had been dropping the first rainy autumn, and although
they had stopped at dusk, having soaked the ground, leaving the streets impassable, they had
cooled the atmosphere. Far from it, had been so saturated with moisture, which adhered to the skin
and boiled in the pores. But these were not inconvenience for the curious, as we said before,
besieged the door and window, to fill almost half of the narrow, crooked street, or for those
attending the dance, that as the night wore on arriving in greater numbers, some on foot, others
in carriages. Nine kinds of the dance floor was swarming with human heads, the women sitting
in chairs around and the men standing in the middle, forming a compact group, all hats on,
so head sticking out, surely encountered with glass pump, suspended from a beam of three chains
of copper, the only burning sperm candle to illuminate half as strange
as that heterogeneous crowd.

Fairly was the number of black and mulatto who had entered, mostly dressed outlandishly. The
men of the same class, whose attendance exceeded that of women not
dressed better taste, but almost everyone wore cloth coat and vest
of pique, the less Sucks canvas, denim or Arabia, which is then generally
used, and cloth hat.  He had a heart of gold that no prosperity could spoil; no one who ever applied
to him for relief was sent away empty-handed.  The struggling shopkeeper made his humble appeal
when fate seemed determined to crush him, and the substantial loan that Meng made to him without
hesitation kept him from closing his shutters and once more set him on his feet to commence
the struggle again.  The widow who had been left in absolute poverty had but to state her case,
when with a countenance beaming with compassion and with eyes moist at her piteous story, Meng
would make such arrangements for her and her children that the terror of starvation was lifted
from her heart, and she left his presence with a smiling face and with heart-felt words of
praise for the man who by his generosity had given her a new glimpse of life.

The character of Meng's mind may well be discovered from the manner in which he distributed
a considerable portion of his riches amongst those who had been born under an unlucky star,
and upon whom an unhappy fate had pressed heavily in the distribution of this world's goods
and favours.

The generous men in China are not the rich.  It is true that occasionally one does hear of
a munificent donation having been made by some millionaire, but the public is never deceived
by these unusual outbursts of generosity.  There is a selfish motive at the back of nearly
every one of them, for the hope of the donors is that by gaining the favour of the mandarins
they may obtain some high official position which will enable them to recoup themselves most
handsomely for any sums they may have expended in charity.

Meng's deeds, however, were always purely unselfish, and no idea of reward ever entered his
head.  He was moved solely by a sincere desire to alleviate human suffering.  The look of gladness
that flashed over the faces of those whom he assisted, their gleaming eyes, and the words of
gratitude that burst from their lips, were to him the sweetest payment that could possibly
be made to him in return for the sums he had given away.

That Meng's fame had travelled far was shown by an occurrence which was destined to have a
considerable influence on the fortunes of his only son, Chin, in whom his whole soul was bound up.

One day he received a letter from the head of a most aristocratic family in a distant city,
begging that he would consent to an alliance with him. Except for the railroad station, which makes the morrow, all encourages others
to stop wandering spirit in the region of the past. Yes, up to the high tower overlooking the
great courtyard of the mosque-cathedral, contemplate the city and its fields neighbors, the
show is beautiful but sad. Each object is an evocation. The walls in many from Roman times,
do remember that Cordova was the homeland of the two Senecas and Lucan, - as it was many centuries
after Góngora (which has served as a model for so many scribes, which not writers), de Cespedes,
Zambrano and other remarkable men. Looking at the cathedral, is recalled to its founder Abderraman,
like noticing the famous bridge of the Guadalquivir VIII century work. And if you tend your eyes on
the multitude of churches and convents populate the city and over the dark arcades of the
Plaza-Mayor, recognizing the Spanish genius has presided over the destinies of the country since
the time of the reconquest in the thirteenth century. Whenever something seal four successive
civilizations more or less profoundly modified social physiognomy. And yet, the predominant type is
the more useful, more social, more industrial: Arabic, - because no domination was so rich and
so well understood necessities of life such as Moorish. Even in the dominant vegetation of this
type Córdoba. Is there some palm trees that are truly ancient monuments. One of them passes have
been planted by Mansur. Centuries have passed over their floating plumes, and these to balance
even whisper the legends of Eastern time.

Strange city to the viewer on his first trip the terms of architecture and Moorish strategy!
Cordoba is a vast labyrinth of very narrow streets, winding, entangled, sad, empty, paved with
pebbles and bordered by a picturesque houses and studded with balconies and trellises, and other
truncated or dismantled, and a maze of squares paltry and irregular, churches and convents, thick
walls and courtyards of desolate, surrounded by gardens and orchards, and farms debris.
  He was affable and pleasant with
all, but he seemed to take most pleasure in the company of Chin, over whom he soon came to
exercise a very powerful influence.

Their habit was to wander about on the hillside, when the priest would entertain his young
friend with stories of the wonderful things he had seen and the striking adventures he had
met with.  His whole aim, however, seemed to be not so much to amuse Chin as to elevate his
mind with lofty and noble sentiments, which were instilled into him on every possible occasion.

It was also their custom to retire every morning to some outhouses at the extremity of the
large garden attached to the dwelling-house, where undisturbed they could converse together
upon the many questions upon which the bonze was ready to discourse.  One thing, however, struck
Chin as very singular, and this was that the bonze made him collect certain curiously-shaped
tiles, and bury them in the earthen floors of these little-used buildings.  Chin would have
rebelled against what he considered a child-like proceeding, but he was restrained by the profound
love and veneration he felt for his companion.

At length the day came when the bonze announced that he must proceed upon his journey.  He
had already, he declared, stayed much longer than he had originally intended, and now the imperative
call of duty made it necessary that he should not linger in the house where he had been so
royally treated.

Seeing that he was determined in his purpose, Meng wanted to press upon him a considerable
sum of money to provide for any expenses to which he might be put in the future.  This, however,
the bonze absolutely refused to accept, declaring that his wants were few, and that he would
have no difficulty in meeting them by the donations he would receive from the different temples
he might pass on his way to his destination.

Little did Meng dream that the guest from whom he was parting with so heavy a heart was a fairy
in disguise.  Yet such was the case.  The rulers of the far-off Western Heaven, who had been
greatly moved by Meng's noble and generous life in succouring the distressed and the forlorn,
had sent the bonze to make arrangements to meet a certain calamitous crisis which was soon
to take place in the home of the wealthy merchant.

A few months after the good bonze had left them, a series of disasters fell with crushing effect
upon the house of Meng.  Several firms which owed him very large sums of money suddenly failed,
and he found himself in such financial difficulties that it was utterly impossible for him
to pay his debts.

In consequence, Meng was utterly ruined, and after paying out all that he possessed, even to
the uttermost cash, found himself absolutely penniless.  This so wrought upon his mind that
he became seriously ill, and after a few days of intense agony, his spirit vanished into the
Land of Shadows, and his wife and son were left desolate and bereaved.

After a time Chin bethought himself of the wealthy and distinguished man who had been so anxious
to recognize him as a son-in-law, and after consultation with his mother, who was completely
broken-hearted, he set off for the distant city in which his proposed father-in-law lived.
Chin hoped that the latter's heart would be moved by the disasters which had befallen his father,
and that he would be willing to extend him a helping hand in his hour of dire sorrow, when
even Heaven itself seemed to have abandoned him and to have heaped upon his head calamities
such as do not often occur to the vilest of men.

Weary and worn with the long journey, which he had been compelled to make on foot, he arrived
one day about noon at the gates which led into the spacious courtyard of the palatial mansion
in which his father-in-law lived.  The doors, however, were shut and barred, as though some
enemy was expected to storm them and carry off the property within.

Chin called loudly to the porter to open them for him, but to his amazement he was told that
orders had been received from the master of the house that he was not to be admitted on any
terms whatsoever.

"But are you aware who I am?" he asked.  "Do you not know that the man who owns this building
is my father-in-law, and that his daughter is my promised wife?  It ill becomes you therefore
to keep me standing here, when I should be received with all the honours that a son-in-law
can claim."

"But I have been specially warned against you," replied the surly gatekeeper.  "You talk of
being a son-in-law, but you are greatly mistaken if you imagine that any such kinship is going
to be recognized in this house.  News has reached my master of the utter failure of your father's
business, and of his death, and he declares that he does not wish to be mixed up in any way
with doubtful characters or with men who have become bankrupt."

Chin, who was imbued with the fine and generous spirit of his father, was so horrified at these
words that he fled from the gate, determined to suffer any indignity rather than accept a favour
from a man of such an ignoble disposition as his father-in-law apparently possessed.

He was crossing the road with his heart completely cast down, and in absolute despair as to
how he was ever to get back to his home again, when a woman in one of the low cottages by the
roadside, beckoned him to come in and sit down.

"You seem to be in distress, sir," she said, "and to be worn out with fatigue, as though you
had just finished a long journey.  My children and I are just about to sit down to our midday
meal, and we shall be so pleased if you will come and partake of it with us.  I have just been
watching you as you stood at the gate of that wealthy man's house, and I saw how roughly you
were treated.  Never mind," she continued, "Heaven knows how you have been wronged, and in
time you will be avenged for all the injury you have suffered."

Comforted and gladdened by these kindly words and by the motherly reception given him by this
poor woman, Chin started out on his return journey, and after much suffering finally reached
his home.  Here he found his mother in the direst poverty, and with a heart still full of the
deepest woe because of the death of her noble-minded husband.

Almost immediately after Chin had been refused admission to the house of his father-in-law,
the latter's daughter, Water-Lily, became aware of the insulting way in which he had been treated.
She was grieved beyond measure, and with tears in her eyes and her voice full of sorrow, she
besought her mother to appeal to her father on her behalf, and to induce him to give up his
purpose of arranging a marriage for her with a wealthy man in the neighbourhood.

"My father may plan another husband for me," she said, "but I shall never consent to be married
to anyone but Chin.  All the rites and ceremonies have been gone through which bind me to him
as long as I live, and to cast him off now because calamity has fallen upon his home is but
to invite the vengeance of the Gods, who will surely visit us with some great sorrow if we
endeavour to act in a way contrary to their laws."

The piteous appeals of Water-Lily had no effect upon her father, who hurried on the arrangements
for his daughter's wedding to the new suitor, anxious to marry her off in order to prevent
the unfortunate Chin from appearing again to claim her as his wife.

She, however, was just as determined as her father, and when she realized that all her entreaties
and prayers had produced not the slightest effect upon him, and that in the course of a few
days the crimson bridal chair would appear at the door to carry her away to the home of her
new husband, she determined to adopt heroic methods to prevent the accomplishment of such a
tragedy.

Next morning, as dawn began to break, the side-gate of the rich man's house was stealthily
opened, and a degraded-looking beggar-woman stepped out into the dull grey streets, and proceeded
rapidly towards the open country beyond.

She was as miserable a specimen of the whining, cringing beggar as could have been met with
in any of the beggar-camps where these unhappy outcasts of society live.  She was dressed in
rags which seemed to be held together only by some invisible force.  Her hair was tied up in
disjointed knots, and looked as if no comb had ever tried to bring it into order.  Her face
was black with grime, and a large, dirty patch was plastered over one of her ears in such a
way that its shape was completely hidden from the gaze of those who took the trouble to cast
a passing glance upon her.

Altogether she was a most unattractive object; and yet she was the most lovely woman in all
that region, for she was none other than Water-Lily, the acknowledged beauty of the town, who
had adopted this disguise in order to escape from the fate which her father had planned for her.

For several weary months she travelled on, suffering the greatest hardships, and passing through
adventures, which, if some gifted writer had collected them into a volume, would have thrilled
many a reader with admiration for this brave young maiden.  Though reared and nurtured in a
home where every luxury was supplied her, yet she endured the degradation and privations of
a beggar's life rather than be forced to be untrue to the man whom she believed Heaven had
given her as a mate.

One evening, as the shadows were falling thickly on the outer courtyard of the desolate house
where Chin lived, a pitiful-looking beggar-woman stood timidly at the front door, gazing with
wistful looks into the room which faced the street.  Not a sound did she utter, not a single
word escaped her lips to indicate that she had come there to obtain charity.

In a few minutes Chin's mother came out from a room beyond.  When she saw this ragged, forlorn
creature standing silently as though she were afraid that some word of scorn and reproach would
be hurled at her, she was filled with a great and overmastering pity, and stepping up to her
she began to comfort her in loving, gentle language.

To her astonishment this draggled, uncleanly object became violently affected by the tender,
motherly way in which she was addressed.  Great tear-drops trickled down her grimy face, leaving
a narrow, snow-like line in their wake.  Presently she was convulsed with sobs that shook her
whole body, whilst she wrung her hands as though some great sorrow was gripping her heart.

Mrs. Meng was deeply affected by the sight of this unhappy woman, and whilst she was gazing
at her with a look of profound sympathy, the broad patch which had concealed and at the same
time disfigured the beggar's countenance, suddenly dropped to the ground.

The effect of this was most startling, for a pair of as beautiful black eyes as ever danced
in a woman's head were now revealed to Mrs. Meng's astonished gaze.  Looking at the stranger
more intently, she saw that her features were exquisitely perfect, and had the grace and the
poetry which the great painters of China have attributed to the celebrated beauties of the Empire.

"Tell me who you are," she cried, as she laid her hand tenderly and affectionately on her shoulder,
"for that you are a common beggar-woman I can never believe.  You must be the daughter of some
great house, and have come here in this disguise in order to escape some great evil.

"Confide in me," she continued, "and everything that one woman can do for another, I am willing
to do for you.  But come in, dear child, and let us talk together and devise some plan by which
I can really help you, for I feel my heart drawn towards you in a way I have never felt for
any stranger before."

Mrs. Meng then led her into her bedroom, where Water-Lily threw off the outer garments in which
she had appeared to the public as a beggar, and telling her wonderful story to Chin's mother,
she revealed herself as her daughter-in-law.

But though her romantic arrival into this gloomy and distressed home brought with it a sudden
gleam of happiness, the great question as to how they were to live had still to be solved.
They were absolutely without means, and they could only hope to meet their meagre expenses
by the sale of the house in which they were living.

At last this plan was discussed, and it was decided that the unused buildings, in which Chin
and the Buddhist priest had been accustomed to spend a part of every day together, should be
first of all disposed of.

In order to have some idea as to how much these outhouses were worth, Chin went to see what
condition they were in, so that he might fix a price for them.  As they had not been used for
some time, the grass had grown rank about them, and they had a dilapidated and forlorn air
which made Chin fear that their market value would not be very great.

Entering in by an open door, which a creeping vine, with the luxuriance of nature, was trying
to block up, Chin looked round with a feeling of disappointment sending a chill into his very
heart.

The air of the place was damp and musty.  The white mould could be seen gleaming on the walls,
as if it wished to give a little colour to the sombre surroundings.  Great cobwebs flung their
streaming banners from the beams and rafters overhead, whilst smaller ones, with delicate lace-like
tracery, tried to beautify the corners of the windows, through which the light from the outside
world struggled to enter the gloomy room.

Throwing the windows wide open to let in as much sunshine as was possible, Chin soon became
convinced that the market value of this particular part of his property would be very small,
and that unless he carried out extensive repairs, it would be impossible to induce any one
to entertain the idea of buying it.

While he was musing over the problem that lay before him, his eye caught a silvery gleam from
a part of the earthen floor, where the surface had evidently been scratched away by some animal
that had wandered in.

Looking down intently at the white, shining thing which had caught his attention, Chin perceived
that it was one of the tiles that the bonze had made him bury in the earth, and when he picked
it up, he discovered to his amazement that in some mysterious manner it had been transformed
into silver!  Digging further into the earth, he found that the same process had taken place
with every tile that had been hidden away beneath the floor of this old and apparently useless
building.

After some days occupied in transporting his treasure to a safe place in his dwelling-house,
Chin realized by a rough calculation that he was now the possessor of several millions' worth
of dollars, and that from being one of the poorest men in the town he had become a millionaire
with enormous wealth at his command.

Thus did the Gods show their appreciation of the noble life of Mr. Meng, and of his loving
sympathy for the poor and the distressed, by raising his fallen house to a higher pinnacle
of prosperity than it had ever attained even during his lifetime.

V

THE MYSTERIOUS BUDDHIST ROBE

The short visit which the Emperor Li Shih-ming paid to the Land of Shadows had produced a profound
impression on his mind.  The pain and misery that men had to endure there, because of the evils
they had committed in this life by their own voluntary action, had been brought before him
in a most vivid manner.  He had seen with his own eyes what he had always been unwilling to
believe--namely, that wrong-doing is in every case followed by penalties, which have to be
paid either in this world or the next.

He was now convinced that the doctrine of the sages on this point was true, for he had witnessed
the horrors that criminals who had practically escaped punishment in this life had to suffer
when they came under the jurisdiction of Yam-lo.

What distressed him most of all, however, was the grim thought which clung to him and refused
to be silenced, that a large number of those in the Land of Shadows who were suffering from
hunger and nakedness, were there as the result of his own cruelty and injustice, and that the
cries of these men and women would reach to Heaven, and in due time bring down vengeance on
himself.

With this fear of coming judgment there was at the same time mingled in his mind an element
of compassion, for he was really sorry for the poor wretches whom he had seen in the "City
of the Wronged Ones," and whose reproaches and threats of divine vengeance had entered into
his very soul.

He therefore determined to institute a magnificent service for those spirits of the dead, who
through the injustice of rulers, or the impotence of law, or private revenge, had lost their
lives and were suffering untold hardships in the other world.  He would have prayers said for
their souls, that would flood their lives with plenty, and in course of time would open up
the way for their being reborn into the world of men.

In this way he would propitiate those whom he had injured, and at the same time accumulate
such an amount of merit for his benevolence, that the gods would make it easy for him when
his time of reckoning came, and the accounts of his life were made up and balanced.

As this ceremony was to be one such as had never before been held at any period of Chinese
history, he was anxious that the man who should be the leader and conductor of it should not
be one of the men of indifferent lives who are usually found in the Buddhist temples and monasteries.
He must be a man of sterling character, and of a life so pure and holy that no stain could
be found upon it to detract from the saintly reputation he had acquired.

His Majesty accordingly sent out edicts to all the Viceroys in the Empire, commanding them
to issue proclamations throughout the length and breadth of the country, telling the people
of the great religious service which he was going to hold in the capital for the unhappy spirits
in the Land of Shadows.  In these edicts he ordered that search should be made for a priest
of unblemished character--one who had proved his love for his fellow-men by great acts of sympathy
for them. This man was to be invited to present himself before the Emperor, to take charge
of the high and splendid service which had been designed by the Sovereign himself.

The tidings of this noble conception of Li Shih-ming spread with wonderful rapidity throughout
his dominions, and even reached the far-off Western Heaven, where the mysterious beings who
inhabit that happy land are ever on the alert to welcome any movement for the relief of human
suffering.  The Goddess of Mercy considered the occasion of such importance that she determined
to take her share of responsibility for this distinguished service, by providing suitable vestments
in which the leader of the great ceremony should be attired.

So it came to pass that while men's minds were excited about the proposed celebration for the
dead, two priests suddenly appeared in the streets of the capital.  No one had ever seen such
old-fashioned and weird-looking specimens of manhood before.  They were mean and insignificant
in appearance, and the distinctive robes in which they were dressed were so travel-stained
and unclean that it was evident they had not been washed for many a long day.

Men looked at them with astonishment as they passed along the road, for there was something
so strange about them that they seemed to have come down from a far-off distant age, and to
have suddenly burst into a civilization which had long out-grown the type from which they were
descended.  But by-and-by their curious old-world appearance was forgotten in amazement at
the articles they carried with them.  These were carefully wrapped in several folds of cloth
to keep them from being soiled, though the two priests were perfectly willing to unfold the
wrappers, and exhibit them to anyone who wished to examine them.

The precious things which were preserved with such jealous care were a hat and robe such as
an abbot might wear on some great occasion when the Buddhist Church was using its most elaborate
ceremonial to perform some function of unusual dignity and importance.  There was also a crosier,
beautifully wrought with precious stones, which was well worthy of being held in the hand of
the highest functionary of the Church in any of its most sacred and solemn services.  The remarkable
thing about the hat and robe was their exquisite beauty.  The richness of the embroidered work,
the quaint designs, the harmonious blending of colours, and the subtle exhibition of the genius
of the mind which had fashioned and perfected them, arrested the attention of even the lowest
class in the crowds of people who gathered round the two priests to gaze upon the hat and robe,
with awe and admiration in their faces.

Some instinct that flashed through the minds of the wondering spectators told them that these
rare and fairy-like vestments were no ordinary products manufactured in any of the looms throughout
the wide domains of the Empire.  No human mind or hand had ever designed or worked out the
various hues and shades of such marvellous colours as those which flashed before their eyes,
and which possessed a delicacy and beauty such as none of the great artists of the past had
ever been able to produce.

The priests from the various temples and monasteries of the capital soon heard the reports
that spread through the city about the marvellous hat and robe, and flocked in large numbers
to see these wonderful things, which the two curious-looking men were displaying to all who
cared to gaze upon them.

"Do you wish to dispose of these things?" asked one of the city priests.

"If any one can pay the price at which alone we are prepared to sell, we shall be willing to
part with them to him," was the reply.

"And what may the price be?" anxiously enquired the priest.

"The hat and robe will cost four thousand taels, and the crosier, which is of the rarest materials
and manufacture, will be sold for the same amount."

At this a great laugh resounded through the crowd.  In those days eight thousand taels was
a huge fortune which only one or two of the wealthiest men of the State could have afforded
to give.  The boisterous mirth, however, which convulsed the crowd when they heard the fabulous
sums asked by these strangers for their articles, soon became hushed when the latter proceeded
to explain that the sums demanded were purposely prohibitive, in order that the sacred vestments
should not fall into the hands of anyone who was unworthy to possess them.

"You are all aware," said one of the strangers, "that His Majesty the Emperor, recognizing
that the service for the dead which he is about to hold is one of momentous importance, not
only to the spirits suffering in the Land of Shadows, but also to the prosperity and welfare
of the Chinese Empire, has already issued edicts to secure the presence of some saintly and
godly priest, who shall be worthy to superintend the prayers that will be said for the men
and women who are leading dreary lives in the land over which Yam-lo rules."

The story of these two men spread with great rapidity throughout the homes of all classes in
the metropolis, and when it was understood that they had no desire to make money by the rare
and beautiful articles which they readily displayed to the crowds that followed them whenever
they appeared on the streets, they began to be surrounded with a kind of halo of romance. 
Men whispered to each other that these were no common denizens of the earth, but fairies in
disguise, who had come as messengers from the Goddess of Mercy.  The garments which they had
with them were such as no mortal eyes had ever beheld, and were clearly intended for use only
at some special ceremony of exceptional importance such as that which the Emperor was planning
to have carried out.

At length rumours reached the palace of the strange scenes which were daily taking place in
the streets of the capital, and Li Shih-ming sent officers to command the two strange priests
to appear in his presence.

When they were brought before him, and he saw the wonderful robe embroidered in delicate hues
and colours such as no workman had ever been known to design before, and grasped the crosier
which sparkled and flashed with the brilliancy of the precious stones adorning it, the Emperor
felt that the invisible gods had approved of his design for the solemn service for the dead
and had prepared vestments for the High Priest which would be worthy of the exalted position
he would occupy in the great ceremony.

"I hear that you want eight thousand taels for these articles," said the Emperor to the two
men, who stood respectfully before him.

"We are not anxious, your Majesty," replied one of the strangers, "about the price.  That is
to us of very little importance.  We have mentioned this large sum simply to prevent any man
of unworthy mind from becoming their possessor.

"There is a peculiarity about that robe," he continued.  "Any person of pure and upright heart
who wears it will be preserved from every kind of disaster that can possibly assail him in
this world.  No sorrow can touch him, and the schemes of the most malignant of evil spirits
will have no influence upon him.  On the other hand, any man who is under the dominion of any
base passion, if he dares to put on that mystic robe, will find himself involved in all kinds
of calamities and sorrows, which will never leave him until he has put it off and laid it aside
for ever.

"What we are really here for," he concluded, "is to endeavour to assist your Majesty in the
discovery of a priest of noble and blameless life who will be worthy of presiding at the service
you are about to hold for the unhappy spirits in the Land of Shadows.  When we have found him
we shall consider that our mission has been fulfilled, and we can then return and report the
success we have achieved."

At this moment despatches from high officials throughout the country were presented to the
Emperor, all recommending Sam-Chaong as the only man in the dominions who was fit to act as
High Priest in the proposed great service.  As Sam-Chaong happened to be then in the capital,
he was sent for and, being approved of by His Majesty, was at once appointed to the sacred
office, which he alone of the myriads of priests in China seemed to be worthy of occupying.

The two strangers, who had been noting the proceedings with anxious and watchful eyes, expressed
their delight at the decision that had been arrived at.  Stepping up to Sam-Chaong with the
most reverential attitude, they presented him with the costly vestments which had excited the
wonder and admiration of everyone who had seen them. Refusing to receive any remuneration for
them, they bowed gracefully to the Emperor and retired.  As the door of the audience-chamber
closed upon them they vanished from human sight, and no trace of them could anywhere be found.

On the great day appointed by the Emperor, such a gathering was assembled as China in all the
long history of the past had never before witnessed.  Abbots from far-off distant monasteries
were there, dressed in their finest vestments.  Aged priests, with faces wrinkled by the passage
of years, and young bonzes in their slate-coloured gowns, had travelled over the hills and
mountains of the North to be present, and took up their positions in the great building.  Men
of note, too, who had made themselves famous by their devoted zeal for the ceremonies of the
Buddhist Church and by their munificent gifts to the temples and shrines, had come with great
retinues of their clansmen to add to the splendour and dignity of the occasion.

But the chief glory and attraction of the day to the assembled crowds was the Emperor, Li Shih-Ming.
Never had he been seen in such pomp and circumstance as on this occasion.  Close round him
stood the princes of the royal family, the great officers of state and the members of the Cabinet
in their rich and picturesque dresses.  Immediately beyond were earls and dukes, viceroys of
provinces and great captains and commanders, whose fame for mighty deeds of valour in the border
warfare had spread through every city and town and hamlet in the Empire.

There were also present some of the most famous scholars of China, who, though not members
of the Buddhist Church, yet felt that they could not refuse the invitation which the Emperor
had extended to them.

In short, the very flower of the Empire was gathered together to carry out the benevolent purpose
of rescuing the spirits of the dead from an intolerable state of misery which only the living
had the power of alleviating.

The supreme moment, however, was when Sam-Chaong and more than a hundred of the priests most
distinguished for learning and piety in the whole of the church, marched in solemn procession,
chanting a litany, and took their places on the raised platform from which they were to conduct
the service for the dead.

During the ceremony, much to his amazement, Li Shih-Ming saw the two men who had bestowed the
fairy vestments on Sam-Chaong, standing one on each side of him; but though they joined heartily
in the proceedings, he could not help noticing that a look of dissatisfaction and occasionally
of something which seemed like contempt, rested like a shadow on their faces.

At the close of the service he commanded them to appear before him, and expressed his surprise
at their conduct, when they explained that the discontent they had shown was entirely due to
a feeling that the ritual which had been used that day was one entirely inadequate to the occasion.
It was so wanting in dignity and loftiness of conception, they said, that though some ease
might be brought to the spirits suffering in the Land of Shadows from the service which had
been performed, it would utterly fail in the most important particular of all--namely, their
deliverance from Hades, and their rebirth into the land of the living.

That this was also a matter which had given the Goddess of Mercy a vast amount of concern was
soon made evident to the Emperor, for in the midst of this conversation there suddenly sounded,
throughout the great hall in which the vast congregation still lingered, a voice saying: "Send
Sam-Chaong to the Western Heaven to obtain the ritual which shall there be given him and which
shall be worthy of being chanted by a nation."

This command from the invisible Goddess produced such an impression upon the Emperor that he
made immediate preparations for the departure of Sam-Chaong on his momentous journey; and in
a few days, supplied with everything necessary for so toilsome an undertaking, the famous priest
started on what seemed a wild and visionary enterprise in pursuit of an object which anyone
with less faith than himself would have deemed beyond the power of any human being to accomplish.

In order to afford him protection by the way and to act as his body-servants, the Emperor appointed
two men to accompany Sam-Chaong on the long journey which he had undertaken at the command
of the Goddess of Mercy.  His Majesty would indeed have given him a whole regiment of soldiers,
if he had been willing to accept them; but he absolutely refused to take more than just two
men.  He relied chiefly on the fairy robe which he had received, for that secured him from
all danger from any foes whom he might meet on the road.  Moreover, his mission, as he assured
the Emperor, was one of peace and good-will, and it would not harmonize either with his own
wishes or with those of the Goddess for him to be in a position to avenge his wrongs by the
destruction of human life.

Before many days had elapsed Sam-Chaong began to realize the perilous nature of the service
he had been called upon to perform.  One afternoon, the travellers were jogging leisurely along
in a wild and unsettled district, when suddenly two fierce-looking hobgoblins swooped down
upon them, and almost before a word could be said had swallowed up both his poor followers.
They were proceeding to do the same with Sam-Chaong when a fairy appeared upon the scene, and
sent them flying with screams of terror to the caverns in the neighbouring hills where their
homes seemed to be.

For a moment or two, Sam-Chaong was in extreme distress.  He had just escaped an imminent peril;
he was absolutely alone in an apparently uninhabited region; and the shadows of night were
already darkening everything around.  He was wondering where he would spend the night, when
a man appeared upon the scene and invited him to come home with him to a mountain village on
the spur of the hills which rose abruptly some distance away in front of them.

Although an entire stranger, who had never even heard Sam-Chaong's name, this man treated his
guest right royally and gave him the very best that his house contained.  Deeply impressed
with the generous treatment he had received, Sam-Chaong determined that he would repay his
host's generosity by performing an act which would be highly gratifying both to him and to
all the members of his household.

Arranging a temporary altar in front of the image of the household god, who happened to be
the Goddess of Mercy, he chanted the service for the dead before it with such acceptance that
the spirit of the father of his host, who had been confined in the Land of Shadows, was released
from that sunless land and was allowed to be reborn and take his place amongst the living.
Moreover, that very night, the father appeared before his son in a vision, and told him that
in consequence of the intercession of Sam-Chaong, whose reputation for piety was widely known
in the dominions of Yam-lo, he had been allowed to leave that dismal country and had just been
born into a family in the province of Shensi.

The son was rejoiced beyond measure at this wonderful news, and in order to show his gratitude
for this generous action, he volunteered to accompany Sam-Chaong right to the very frontiers
of China and to share with him any dangers and hardships he might have to endure by the way.

After many weary days of travelling this part of the journey was at last accomplished, and
they were about to separate at the foot of a considerable hill which lay on the border line
between China and the country of the barbarians beyond, when a loud and striking voice was
heard exclaiming, "The priest has come!  The priest has come!"

Sam-Chaong asked his companion the meaning of these words and to what priest they referred.

"There is a tradition in this region," replied the man, "that five hundred years ago, a certain
fairy, inflamed with pride, dared to raise himself in rebellion against the Goddess of Mercy
in the Western Heaven.  To punish him she turned him into a monkey, and confined him in a cave
near the top of this hill.  There she condemned him to remain until Sam-Chaong should pass
this way, when he could earn forgiveness by leading the priest into the presence of the Goddess
who had commanded him to appear before her."

Ascending the hill in the direction of the spot from whence the cry "The priest has come!"
kept ringing through the air, they came upon a natural cavern, the mouth of which was covered
by a huge boulder, nicely poised in such a position that all exit from it was rendered an impossibility.
Peering through the crevices at the side, they could distinctly see the figure of a monkey
raising its face with an eager look of expectation in the direction of Sam-Chaong and his companion.

"Let me out," it cried, "and I will faithfully lead you to the Western Heaven, and never leave
you until you find yourself standing in the presence of the Goddess of Mercy."

"But how am I to get you out?" asked Sam-Chaong.  "The boulder that shuts you in is too large
for human hands to move, and so, though I pity you in your misfortune and greatly desire your
help to guide me along the unknown paths that lie before me, I fear that the task of setting
you free must fall to other hands than mine."

"Deliverance is more easy than you imagine," replied the monkey.  "Cast your eye along the
edge of this vast rock, which the Goddess with but a simple touch of one of her fingers moved
into its place five hundred years ago, as though it had been the airiest down that ever floated
in a summer's breeze, and you will see something yellow standing out in marked contrast to
the black lichen-covered stone.  That is the sign-manual of the Goddess.  She printed it on
the rock when she condemned me centuries ago to be enclosed within this narrow cell until you
should come and release me.  Your hand alone can remove that mystic symbol and save me from
the penalty of a living death."

Following the directions of the monkey, Sam-Chaong carefully scraped away the yellow-coloured
tracings which he tried in vain to decipher; and when the last faint scrap had been finally
removed, the huge, gigantic boulder silently moved aside with a gentle, easy motion and tilted
itself to one side until the prisoner had emerged, when once more it slid gracefully back into
its old position.

Under the guidance of the monkey, who had assumed the appearance of a strong and vigorous young
athlete, Sam-Chaong proceeded on his journey--over mountains so high that they seemed to touch
the very heavens, and through valleys which lay at their foot in perpetual shadow, except only
at noon-tide when the sun stood directly overhead. Then again they travelled across deserts
whose restless, storm-tossed, sandy billows left no traces of human footsteps, and where death
seemed, like some cunning foe, to be lying in wait to destroy their lives.

It was here that Sam-Chaong realized the protecting care of the Goddess in providing such a
valuable companion as the monkey proved himself to be.  He might have been born in these sandy
wastes, so familiar was he with their moods.  There was something in the air, and in the colours
of the sky at dawn and at sunset, that told him what was going to happen, and he could say
almost to a certainty whether any storm was coming to turn these silent deserts into storm-tossed
oceans of sand, which more ruthless even than the sea, would engulf all living things within
their pitiless depths.  He knew, moreover, where the hidden springs of water lay concealed
beneath the glare and glitter that pained the eyes simply to look upon them; and without a
solitary landmark in the boundless expanse, by unerring instinct, he would travel straight
to the very spot where the spring bubbled up from the great fountains below.

Having crossed these howling wildernesses, where Sam-Chaong must have perished had he travelled
alone, they came to a region inhabited by a pastoral people, but abounding in bands of robbers.
Monkey was a daring fellow and was never afraid to meet any foe in fair fight; yet for the
sake of Sam-Chaong, whose loving disposition had been insensibly taming his wild and fiery
nature, he tried as far as possible to avoid a collision with any evil characters, whether
men or spirits, who might be inclined to have a passage of arms with them.

One day they had passed over a great plain, where herds of sheep could be seen in all directions
browsing under the watchful care of their shepherds, and they had come to the base of the foot-hills
leading to a mountainous country beyond, when the profound meditation in which Sam-Chaong was
usually absorbed was suddenly interrupted by a startled cry from Monkey.

Drawing close up to him, he said in a low voice, "Do you see those six men who are descending
the hill and coming in our direction?  They look like simple-minded farmers, and yet they are
all devils who have put on the guise of men in order to be able to take us unawares.  Their
real object is to kill you, and thus frustrate the gracious purpose of the Goddess, who wishes
to deliver the souls in the Land of Shadows from the torments they are enduring there.

"I know them well," he went on; "they are fierce and malignant spirits and very bold, for rarely
have they ever been put to flight in any conflict in which they have been engaged.  They little
dream, however, who it is you have by your side.  If they did they would come on more warily,
for though I am single-handed they would be chary of coming to issues with me.

"But I am glad," he continued, "that they have not yet discovered who I am, for my soul has
long desired just such a day as this, when in a battle that shall be worthy of the gods, my
fame shall spread throughout the Western Heaven and even into the wide domains of the Land
of Shadows."

With a cry of gladness, as though some wondrous good-fortune had befallen him, he bounded along
the road to meet the coming foe, and in contemptuous tones challenged them to mortal combat.

No sooner did they discover who it was that dared to champion Sam-Chaong with such bold and
haughty front, than with hideous yells and screams they rushed tumultuously upon him, hoping
by a combined attack to confuse him and to make him fly in terror before them.

In this however they had reckoned without their host.  With a daring quite as great as theirs,
but with a skill far superior to that of the six infuriated demons, Monkey seized a javelin
which came gleaming through the air just at the precise moment that he needed it, and hurled
it at one of his opponents with such fatal effect that he lay sprawling on the ground, and
with a cry that might have come from a lost spirit breathed his last.

And now the battle became a mighty one indeed.  Arrows shot from invisible bows flew quicker
than flashes of light against this single mighty fighter, but they glanced off a magic shield
which fairy arts had interposed in front of him. And this appreciation, as well as advanced time, he
did send his mass quickly.

After the ceremony, Mr. Caramel was the first to flee, raising his
hands to the face sweltering.

- Cursed be my gun!

Serca two hours in the oven ... Er commander, because I am Spanish, always gives me these assignments.
With what I have wrote in the police station! ...

And hurried, passing the abbot, who returned to find his ornaments
place them by placing them one by one, counted up and clean, in travel
cases.

The band played their morning concert. All the chairs were filled ride. The ladies, dressed in
white enjoyed the welfare of a minor after the anguish freshness suffered in the classroom.
Circulating form the agenda of the parties with whom solemnized Over the line: four days of
banquets, concerts and athletic games. Many laughed of the jokes with which the butler had
splashed the program thanks innocent of overwhelming heaviness that
seemed stored in the warehouse of the ship with artificial flowers,
flags and shields of cardboard, to emerge on a fixed date for all
trips.

Ojeda, leaving the deck, was arrested by the smile of Mrs. Power and abandoned his companion,
leaning beside her on the railing.

"Devil woman! - Thought Maltrana -. Looks like Fernando smells. One would think have eyes to see
him in the neck. Is facing the sea and just approached us, turns
his head smiling in advance, confident that it is he who is coming.

"

A chorus of vociferous, big laughs and applause rang out on the terrace of the den, and Maltrana
anxious to know what was going on the ship ran into this site.

Nelida was surrounded by fans and other people who had been attracted by the new aspect that
had some of them. Baron Belgian rival German and others they had mustaches, stood now with freshly
shaved upper lip, and this new caused the ironic cheers of friends.

Nelida smiled, looking down modestly. Had expressed the previous day that never would love a man with
whiskers, she was by the male to the American style, with face clean of hair as well as Hellenic
wrestlers. And that was enough to those men, eroded by competition ran deaf to communicate with
the barber, appearing before the fickle disfigured young man who
embraced them all into a common love, without distinction to none.

-
This girl is going to go crazy - Maltrana said Ojeda, who had run
well to learn the reason for the crash -.

Now it seems that her taste is that men shave. I am free of it: I have followed the fashion
now. But you, Fernando, get rid that this girl will take the eye. I threatened her beautiful
whiskers.

- To me !...-- Fernando said, shrugging his shoulders contemptuously
and looking Nélida that by chance while fixed his eyes on him -.

No danger, Maltrana ... I turn with the U.S..

When the two friends met at the table at lunch time, noticed the absence Dr. Rubau.

- The poor man is very sad - Munster said -. I reported last night that would shut all day in his
cabin. Today is the sixth anniversary of the death of his wife, and all Over the years, wherever he
is, does the same. Isolated, think of it, not eating, crying with all freedom.

Maltrana ironically admired the conduct of the doctor. Who would suspect this despair romantic
in that old doctor, with his seventy years, his whiskers and teeth
stained mounted Gold?

... And life may be crying Lord have often fought the two and he would carry on his conscience
more than an affair ...

- The illusion, Ojeda!

The whimsical illusion, which magnifies things when we lose and we
makes love with new love, erasing the memories ungrateful.

After lunch, Maltrana disappeared with a mysterious air. Had spoken to his friend some expedition to the
most interesting part of the vessel, a visit that very few gained do. But he had friends, enjoyed
great influence, and accompanying Carmelo, the the police station, was to make his whim.

He declined to say more, and went downstairs, leaving Ojeda lying on a deck chair.

Sticky heat dampened the fronts and backs. The position changed dormitantes to separate the
clothing attached epidermis with sweat.

A faint puff, something and a mild stroke white stood out in the blue horizon to the bow of the liner.
It was a sailboat, yet distant, sailing the same course of Goethe. Soon we reach this, the wind
was low, from time to time a burst, then the quiet equatorial dense stunned, they seemed to
gravitate over the ocean, barely touched by slight tremors.

Marcab suddenly on the sea light a large black circle. Arose from the horizon a shadow bar was
rolling rapidly toward the ship, like a piece of cloth unwound, while obscuring the sky and water. In
this area of ​​the shadow bristling sea looked small points, like
the surface of a brush.

Progress only lasted a few minutes. Passed the ship, with a speed equal to that of mutations stage,
the hot sun to a pale shadow of storm. The rain wrapped with a tragic accompaniment of raucous
thunder and lightning, thunder and hear only the solitude of the
ocean.

The rain was not in abundance, but in large masses, as if the bottom fell out a lake above him and
all of a sudden fall in volume. Came in the form of knives for the interstices of the canvas, filling
the deck at the side of the wind, glided in undulating streams at the foot of the rails; aglomerábase
in the gutters, that bubbling, choking on so much fluid. Awnings and quejábanse plates and beaten.

And
after five minutes, when the people, frightened, collected books and cushions covers to deliver
them from the flood, took refuge with them in the classroom, suddenly
emerged from sun, the ship, dripping, shining as if it were gold,
and the stain was running shadow in the luminous sea, becoming smaller,
more narrow, until lost in the infinite, as if you were rolling an
invisible hand.

Soon he had devoured the equatorial heat to the innermost wet spot. When even slipped a few drops
in the channels late, the tables covered, burning sun-cracked again
under the steps.

Fifteen minutes after the stormy rain there were no traces of him. You will be remembered as something
absurd and unreal, in the sweltering heat in the afternoon, under a sky of blue oil on a sea
boiling with sun glare retina and gave the impression of a warm lake waters infinite.

Formabase in avante cover a group of children and servants who pointed
to the skyline.

Passengers went, pointing their twins in the same direction. Ojeda gave up his seat to join
the group and they were close dormitantes also joined, running with childlike curiosity that inspired
the minor event in the monotonous existence of a board ...

The sailboat was a short distance from the Transatlantic, moving to his bow as a mountain white
square canvas slightly pink in the sun. A maneuver of Goethe put aside, and then appeared
visible from stem to stern, with his helmet painted iron green, sharp and fast, and the sails of
its five masts, huge, huge: a forest of leaves Canvas with nerves of steel, which contained
the smallest breeze, vibrating and rearing under his breath.

Some passengers get off the bridge telegraph transmitting the news. Was a Bremen sailing and did not
go to America. Approached the coast of Brazil to take the wind, After winning the Cape of Good Hope.
I went to China to carry rice.

The Goethe greeted with a roar the flag of the vessel. Two dozen of little men, dwarfed by the distance,
agolpábanse on the deck, bare-chested, waving aloft their white caps equal to those of the cooks.
Guess her screams are absorbed by the silence of the Ocean, of which not the slightest echo came
up steam. Two huge dogs, shaggy, fierce, positions of legs on the side as well as individuals,
also greeted contorsionantes barking in the distance that made silent gestures.

Was lagging behind the sailing vessel. He remained a moment parallel to the bow, then, for follow,
was the crowd that runs through the covers. Finally, migrants were only piled in the stern, standing
Goethe flag on the white pyramid of his sails.

Seemed motionless, although two knives rebullían foam over its bow. "Goodbye! Bon voyage! "Shouted
the crowd in several languages ​​clustered on the edges ... And the boat was getting smaller,
as if walking backwards waving wrinkles violent pitching foamy sent
to meet the propellers turning invisible.

At the end seemed to be still, sinking into the distant horizon terms
of one, in the limitless plain, where he would doze off with the burning
candles unconsciousness calm day, which would advance night as a ghost,
surrounded by phosphorescent foam, swinging the huge moon yellowish
between the forest of his rig.

Ojeda surprised not to see his friend on the cover. Something had to worry to much interest leave
unnoticed that this meeting amounted to a major event in the monotonous
life board.

To rid the group, making each other their armchairs and into the coffee, Fernando Conchita found
that walking with graceful swaying, pulling the elbows, mounted on high and noisy high heels. South
American ladies, to see it happen, was called the "Spanish Donostia."

His sharp black eyes and stared into Fernando.

- Go with God, bad person! You do not want anything with countrywomen, seem little thing. Particularly
for women who speak in foreign and even God understands ... No, son, if I do not want anything
with you! Better ride alone ... Yanka there is in watching the sea with half eye and the other
half looking for you. Come, that awaits.

And Conchita walked away with noisy heels, while Fernando, drawn by eye Mrs. Power clear and
gentle, ironic smile between, went to her, leaning on the rail to
engage the second day courtship.

Unable to do anything else in this prison float, which was useless to flee, because when you
turn on the opposite side of the cover we found the fugitive with the same people.

Talks with the U.S. began to tire Ojeda. These flirts with no result
monotone seemed to him, sweet and endless, like the psalms of Gospel
Chapel.

Always the same: glimpses sentimental melancholy words alternated with cold jokes and mordants
that came along with them. If he expressed a wish to leave, a leer amounted to a promise and some
words of double meaning kept him still. When, suddenly excited, tried to advance, she smiled
with innocence malicious: "I do not understand ... I do not understand. " And if at last confessed
his understanding, was pursing brow and flushed with cold protesting: "Shocking."

Sometimes withdrawing half offended by the verbal audacity Fernando, and he breathed satisfied
and disappointed at the same time. "Go with God and never come back! - Was said to Rabies -. The
truth is I do not know why I waste my time with this woman. "

But several hours passed without a resumption of relations of good friendship. Maud met him pretending
to be distracted, awaiting the step, leaning on the railing, gazing the sea in the attitude
of an actress who is spied on by the camera, and was quite a smile,
eye movement, a slight cough, so that Fernando came back to join her.

"I is bullfighting - protested it mentally -. He's having fun with me ... Oh, if we were on
earth could stop to see you! What a kick to keep you going, my daughter! "

But they were in the ocean, enclosed in a space of a few hundred meters. A string Unbreakable held
them both, and when you moved away, the other was forced back. Had to resign themselves to an
arduous courtship and contradictory, a tug of war that seemed very much in the woman and made
her open the eyes of a smiling cruelty spasm sadistic, whenever he
senses excited with mysterious allusions or looks promising contracted
mad with desire.

His only concern coming out of these punishments was that Isidro not know the truth. How to
make fun of him to know the behavior of Maud! ... And impulses of his manly pride, vanity boasted
that the male, which compromises the lie to preserve their prestige,
accepted the congratulations and the envy of Maltrana, which imagined
winner.

From time to time, remorse and fear seized him. Oh, if the second on the from afar what was happening
on the ship! If Teri could see how it looks the eye of a lock! ...

The shame made him stand still in his chair, reading a book, oblivious
to everything around him.

Other times, hoping to isolate itself further, moved his seat at the last cover and hid behind
a boat, enjoying the pleasure of winning will, of their strong resolution to decide to be faithful.
But the narrowness of plotting against closure virtue. Impossible to remain isolated. The necessities
of life, the call touches the dining room, gathered them all.

In addition, the woman seemed endowed with a diabolical sense to guess their presence. We discovered
in their hiding places, and sections were, passed proud and appealing to him at once, like a queen
convinced of her majesty, with fluid around his person dislocated and beat down the best-built
holy purposes.

Fernando recognized, apart from this, that the most formidable enemy was within. Was asleep in
the desert beast, which reared to sniff the perfume of Maud, purity forced by lack of opportunity,
that twisted fiercely to the tantalizing curve, length hand contact or del amor sheathed in silk white
black or gray silk exhibited the skirts gathered tempting to climb
a ladder to volunteer oversight.

Ojeda beat again we left with any of these incidents. Upon reaching the ground would another man,
would regain their loyalty, but here they were in the Atlantic, and who would know what ever
happen! ... Had to be delivered to its destination, to follow the suggestions irresistible "the
great unclean." And the dominant Maud saw him again tantalizing subject to its charm. Stirring around
her submissive and pleading with alternatives to anger and despair
escapes lasted only a short time.

He had thought for a moment freed from such bondage to meet Mina. This young woman sad and sick
is not a danger. Could be near her without altering the balance peace of mind. Mine, with its
sentimental sweetness seemed to embellish the humdrum existence board. It was a relief to
finish the journey with no regrets.

But Maud, as if divining his thoughts and feared a crowd had attacked
from the first time in German.

Ojeda complimented with a cruel irony for their excellent achievement. What luck! The ugliest
woman, poorly dressed the ship ... A sort of governess married to a drunk tune, which they
all said, to the peat of comedians who would with him.

In its relentless mockery did not spare the child: a fat hairy hemp,
the dirtiest all the small fry of the ship.

She hoped to see Fernando as worn on arms made love to the mother. Something to bet that at night
I slept on his knees with accompanying songs and was worried about
changing the undergarments.

With the irritating injustice that can only pique femininity, also poked fun Mina singing. He
had covered his ears one evening cautiously approached the windows of the room, when she was
at the piano and he stood looking at her the same as a tenor ... They said that this unhappy,
as a maidservant, was a beautiful woman and a great artist! ... And all the successes of Ojeda
in the ship were to be inspired such passion! ... Must congratulate you on your good luck. And more
irony, Maud spoke French nasal accent: "Month compliments, mon cher; tous compliments months."

Poor Mina ... Sometimes, talking with Mrs. Fernando Power, had seen pass about them being Karl's
hand. He pretended not to know, twisted eyes, but guess bitterness in his expression of disappointment.
And when Ojeda left alone, she seemed to hide, fleeing to resume
talks.

If walks in the front were covered to face, after briefly Mina pretexts immediate occupancy
or obey the Karl slightest hitch to move forward.

In the eyes of Maud tellers did not escape some beautification of the old artist, a greater care
in the adornment of his person.

- Look, sir, your beloved makes great expense. Today is white from head to toe, a suit pique, ironed
and starched, a true armor. It is elegant as a governess of their land ... Her face is less
green, leaving a trail of smell cheap: have bought powders and perfumes in the salon of the
ship ... And all for you, great conqueror ... There is even new shoes. I do not see the worn heels
before.

And Fernando, in the selfishness of his desire, welcomed these jokes with a cowardly satisfaction.
Were Jealousy springs, which would serve to shew the end Maud less elusive.

That afternoon, the mood she seemed less ironic. The voice, some evening, sounded slowly melancholy,
and his eyes were wet: she shone with a watery corneas excessive
as if they would shed tears.

Occasionally trembled with violent shocks, the same as if an invisible hand tickling my neck.
Caught on the railing, cast bust back, and then approached her to touch his chest. This gymnastics
accompanied by his nervous chatter and conceal a desire to extend the arms and stretch. Interesábase
much over time, which until then had not worried.

Asked missing many days anxious to get to Rio de Janeiro, as though he had been sleeping arise
and wake in his memory the image of someone who was waiting.

- Missing more than six days! - Exclaimed in dismay when they heard
the explanations of Ojeda -.

Today is Sunday, and will not arrive until Saturday. How long! ... Almost a week to see my John
...

And with a jolt felt Fernando in his words a loving great earnestness, a desire vehement bride
returning to her husband's side after the first absence.

In major U.S. cities, business had taken his thinking practice and calculating woman, then in
Paris, was stunned by the gay life of mates.

But now, on the ship and live a life of inertia, with no worries without friends, with long confinement
in the cabin to avoid the treatment of people, the resurgent husband's
image on it with an irresistible novelty, accompanied by tremors long
forgotten.

Plus ... Equatorial heat! Asphyxia that gripped her at certain times of night, pressing his chest,
rattling their ears, developing their eyes closed tape unspeakable visions, interrupted sleep
at last! ... Ah, John! Poor big, how I wanted to see it! ...

Fernando winced to hear her say that staring at the ocean and sleepwalker monotone voice. Nice
role yours! ... And bowing ironically, announced that was going to retire so that alone should think
in the next interview with her husband.

- No, stay - ordered it -.

Time I have to remember it ... Let's talk ... Tell me those words
nice that you know that and they look like comedy exaggerations, lies,
things hidalgo Talking to die if they do not love him.

After that, Ojeda believed to have another woman at his side, as
if he had broken the shell ice after which he had held until then,
ironically, hostile, and the fragments the defense had just broken
something warm and vibrant arise going to him with humility female
yearning to be expired.

He passed them around Germany with his child's
hand. Not looked at them, but the look of Maud was it: a look aggressive,
deadly cholera, which seemed nailed on her back. Fernando recalled
how he saw the other, so were the eyes of Teri when on his travels
inspired him jealousy a companion hotel.

Mrs. Power's eyes, when
they stopped to see Mina, they returned to Fernando with avidity possession.
She smiled hearing the words of his companion, his anguished prayer,
as if you should ask a must for continued existence.

- Maybe tomorrow
... perhaps never - she said smiling his cruel coquetry, which Ojeda
This time it seemed forced, guessing the cold beyond words beginning
with emotion.

Then, as if afraid to lose the serenity and saying
too, was quick to part with Fernando. No one could speak with him
always asking the same thing. Retired to the cabin. Was too bold in
his words, and had to cut the conversation.

- At night talk, if you
wiser ... There is your friend already has company ... Do not you
look so sad. Have confidence in luck ... Who knows ...

And he walked
away laughing, teasing and tantalizing at the same time, while carrying
on approaching Maltrana the linen suit an impermeable layer. He stopped
at a housing space bathed in sun, and stood there, trembling and pale,
with visible pleasure of enjoying the equatorial heat.

- From this
did not happen - he said -. If you want something, approach.

Ojeda
obeyed him, missing the bizarre aspect to that layer provided on the
suit light, trembling with cold and hot sun looking for the ship when
all they felt anxious by stifling temperatures.

- Where did you ...

-
Polo - Maltrana said.

Another extraordinary thing was that this hare did not seem anxious to escape.  It took no
advantage of undergrowth or of clumps of trees to hide the direction in which it was going.
It managed also to keep constantly in view of the whole field; and when it had to make sudden
turns in the natural windings of the road which led to a valley in the distance, where there
stood a famous temple, it hesitated for a moment and allowed the baying hounds to come perilously
near, before it darted off with the speed of lightning and left the dogs far behind it.

Little did the hunters dream that the beautiful animal which was giving them such an exciting
chase was none other than the fairy Hing, who had assumed this disguise in order to bring the
Prince to the lonely temple in the secluded valley, where, beyond the possibility of being
spied upon by his father's murderer, the story of treachery could be told, and means be devised
for his restoration to the throne.

Having arrived close to the temple, the mysterious hare vanished as suddenly as it had appeared,
and not a trace was left to enable the dogs, which careered wildly round and round, to pick
up the scent.

The Prince, who was a devoted disciple of the Goddess of Mercy, now dismounted and entered
the temple, where he proceeded to burn incense before her shrine and in muttered tones to beseech
her to send down blessings upon him.

After a time, he became considerably surprised to find that the presiding priest of the temple,
instead of coming forward to attend upon him and to show him the courtesies due to his high
position, remained standing in a corner where the shadows were darkest, his eyes cast upon
the ground and with a most serious look overspreading his countenance.

Accordingly, when he had finished his devotions to the Goddess, the Prince approached the priest,
and asked him in a kindly manner if anything was distressing him.

"Yes," replied Hien-Chung, "there is, and it is a subject which materially affects your Royal
Highness.  If you will step for a moment into my private room, I shall endeavour to explain
to you the matter which has filled my mind with the greatest possible anxiety."

When they entered the abbot's room, Hien-Chung handed the Prince a small box and asked him
to open it and examine the article it contained.

Great was the Prince's amazement when he took it out and cast a hurried glance over it.  A
look of excitement passed over his face and he cried out, "Why, this is the great seal of the
kingdom which was lost three years ago, and of which no trace could ever be found!  May I ask
how it came into your possession and what reason you can give for not having restored it to
the King, who has long wished to discover it?"

"The answer to that is a long one, your Highness, and to satisfy you, I must go somewhat into
detail."

Hien-Chung then told the Prince of the midnight visit his father had made him, and the tragic
story of his murder by the man who was now posing as the King, and of his appeal to deliver
him from the sorrows of the well in which he had been confined for three years.

"With regard to the finding of the seal," he continued, "my servant Hing, who is present, will
describe how by the supernatural powers with which he is endowed, he descended the well only
this very morning and discovered it on the body of your father."

"We have this absolute proof," he said, "that the vision I saw only two nights ago was not
some imagination of the brain, but that it was really the King who appealed to me to deliver
him from the power of an enemy who seems bent upon his destruction.

"We must act, and act promptly," he went on, "for the man who is pretending to be the ruler
of your kingdom is a person of unlimited ability, and as soon as he gets to know that his secret
has been divulged, he will put into operation every art he possesses to frustrate our purpose.

"What I propose is that your Highness should send back the greater part of your retinue to
the palace, with an intimation to the effect that you are going to spend the night here in
a special service to the Goddess, whose birthday it fortunately happens to be to-day.  After
night has fallen upon the city, Hing shall descend into the well and bring the body of your
father here.  You will then have all the proof you need of the truth of the matter, and we
can devise plans as to our future action."

A little after midnight, Hing having faithfully carried out the commission entrusted to him
by Hien-Chung, arrived with the body of the King, which was laid with due ceremony and respect
in one of the inner rooms of the temple.  With his marvellous wonder-working powers and with
the aid of invisible forces which he had been able to summon to his assistance, he had succeeded
in transporting it from the wretched place where it had lain so long to the friendly temple
of the Goddess of Mercy.

The Prince was deeply moved by the sight of his father's body. Fortunately it had suffered
no change since the day when it was thrown to the bottom of the well.  Not a sign of decay
could be seen upon the King's noble features.  It seemed as though he had but fallen asleep,
and presently would wake up and talk to them as he used to do.  The fact that in some mysterious
way the soul had not been separated from the body accounted for its remarkable preservation.
Nevertheless to all appearance the King was dead, and the great question now was how he could
be brought back to life, so that he might be restored to his family and his kingdom.

"The time has come," said Hien-Chung, "when heroic measures will have to be used if the King
is ever to live again.  Two nights ago he made a passionate and urgent request to me to save
him, for one of the gods informed him that I was the only man who could do so.  So far, we
have got him out of the grip of the demon that compassed his death, and now it lies with me
to provide some antidote which shall bring back the vital forces and make him a living man
once more.

"I have never had to do with such a serious case as this before, but I have obtained from the
Patriarch of the Taoist Church a small vial of the Elixir of Life, which has the marvellous
property of prolonging the existence of whoever drinks it.  We shall try it on the King and,
as there is no sign of vital decay, let us hope that it will be effective in restoring him
to life."

Turning to a desk that was kept locked, he brought out a small black earthenware bottle, from
which he dropped a single drop of liquid on to the lips of the prostrate figure.  In a few
seconds a kind of rosy flush spread over the King's features.  Another drop, and a look of
life flashed over the pallid face.  Still another, and after a short interval the eyes opened
and looked with intelligence upon the group surrounding his couch.  Still one more, and the
King arose and asked how long he had been asleep, and how it came about that he was in this
small room instead of being in his own palace.

He was soon restored to his family and to his position in the State, for the usurper after
one or two feeble attempts to retain his power ignominiously fled from the country.

A short time after, Hien-Chung had a private interview with the King. "I am anxious," he said,
"that your Majesty should understand the reason why such a calamity came into your life.

"Some years ago without any just reason you put to death a Buddhist priest.  You never showed
any repentance for the great wrong you had done, and so the Goddess sent a severe drought upon
your Kingdom.  You still remained unrepentant, and then she sent one of her Ministers to afflict
you, depriving you of your home and your royal power.  The man who pushed you down the well
was but carrying out the instructions he had received from the Goddess.  Your stay down the
well for three years was part of the punishment she had decreed for your offence, and when
the time was up, I was given the authority to release you.

"Kings as well as their subjects are under the great law of righteousness, and if they violate
it they must suffer like other men. I would warn your Majesty that unless you show some evidence
that you have repented for taking away a man's life unjustly, other sorrows will most certainly
fall upon you in the future."

VII

"THE WONDERFUL MAN"

There is a certain Prefectural city in the south of China, which has earned a reputation distinguishing
it from all such towns throughout the Empire.

In outward appearance this city is very much like every other of similar size.  The streets
are narrow, and the houses are crowded close up to each other.  Every foot of land has been
utilized, and no room has been left for sanitation, or for parks and open spaces, where the
people may breathe the pure air of heaven.  These things are modern inventions of the West
and have never yet touched the thought or the life of the East, where sullen heat, fetid atmosphere,
and stifling surroundings are the natural inheritance of the men and women who throng the cities
and crowd and elbow each other in the great battle of life.

There was one thing, however, for which this city was deservedly celebrated.  It had a great
reputation for learning, and was famous as the abode of scholars.

In the main thoroughfares, where men with a dexterity begotten of long experience just managed
to evade jostling each other, the long-gowned students were conspicuous by their numbers. 
Their pale intellectual faces, and their gleaming black eyes burning with hidden fires, marked
them out distinctly from the farmers and artisans and coolies, with their coarser, heavier
features, who moved along side by side with them.  And down the narrow alley-ways, where fetid
smells and impure airs floated the live-long day, one's ear would catch the shrill tones of
more youthful students, who in unhealthy rooms were mastering aloud the famous classics of
China, in order that in time they might compete in the triennial examinations for the prizes
offered by the Empire to its scholars.

The ambition for learning was in the air, and a belated wayfarer, wandering down the labyrinth
of streets in the early hours of the morning, would hear the solemn stillness broken into by
the voices of the students, as in their highest tones they repeated the writings of the great
sages.

The town was therefore dear to the God of Literature, who has ever been ready to champion the
cause of his scholars, whenever anyone has dared to lay a hand upon their privileges.

A legend in which there is widespread belief declares that on one occasion, when the scholars
of five counties had assembled at a triennial examination, the Imperial Examiner, who for some
reason or other had conceived a spite against the competitors from this particular city, determined
that not one of them should pass.

As their essays came into his hands, he carefully laid them in a pile close beside him on the
table.  The God of Literature, who was sitting in his shrine at the far end of the room, became
indignant at the insult that was about to be put on his favourites, and breathed some classic
phrases under his breath, to the effect that he would never allow such a wrong to be perpetrated
as long as he had power to prevent it.

The last paper had been examined and laid carefully on the top of the others, when, as if by
a flash of lightning, the examiner was seized with a stroke of paralysis, and fell to the ground
unconscious.  That was the answer of the God to his evil schemes.

The greatest dismay was exhibited by the under-officials of the examination.  Thousands of
students were waiting outside for the list to be issued of those who had passed, but the only
man who had the power to prepare this list lay helpless in the grip of paralysis.  Yet something
must be done, and that speedily.  As they looked over the manuscripts lying on the table, a
little pile was discovered, evidently placed there by the examiner for some purpose of his
own.  One of the officials at once suggested that these must belong to the men who had gained
their degrees.  The idea was enthusiastically accepted as the correct one.  There was no need
for further delay.  The names of the writers were hurriedly copied out and pasted up on the
board in front of the Examination Hall.

To the amazement of all the assembled scholars, the only men who had got their degrees were
those belonging to the city favoured of the God. This was the God's second answer to the examiner,
who would unjustly have excluded them from the honours of the day.

There was another thing for which the people of this city were noted, and that was the pleasure
taken by the leaders of society in recognizing those who displayed conspicuous civic virtues.

Outside one of the four gates, and well beyond the streets and houses which had grown up as
an overflow from the great city, there was a considerable open space, through the middle of
which the main road meandered on its way to the countless towns and villages in the regions
beyond, and finally to the far-off capital, Peking, thousands of miles away in the extreme
north.  It was a busy, much-frequented road, and the tread of human feet and the sound of the
voices of passing travellers never ceased from early dawn until darkness had fallen and driven
men to the shelter of the city.

The striking feature about the long stretch of uninhabited land which bordered one side of
this road was a magnificent series of memorial arches built in close succession to each other
for a considerable distance.  They were composed of granite slabs, some very plain in their
design, whilst others were highly artistic, and had evidently been produced by men who were
masters of their craft.  The general plan and execution were the same in all, but the ornamentation
in some was most elaborate, and filled one with pleasure and delight to look at it.

Every one of these arches had been erected to commemorate some person who had already passed
away, but whose virtues in life had been so conspicuous that the community had determined that
they should not be forgotten, but that a record of them should be handed down to posterity,
not only to keep their memory fragrant, but also to provide beautiful examples for succeeding
generations.

Amongst the virtues recorded on these granite slabs, the most common was that of filial piety.
A son had distinguished himself by his devotion to his parents, and had sacrificed his very
life in faithful service to them.  In undying words the story was carved into the stone; and
the two mystic characters, "Holy Will," in the centre of the middle arch showed that the Emperor
had given his permission for the erection of this memorial to a virtue so admired by the whole
Chinese nation.

Other arches, almost as numerous as those raised to dutiful sons, were those setting forth
the virtues of widows who had refused to marry again after their husbands had died.

In one case a widow had been left in great straits, and had been compelled to struggle with
poverty and privations of every kind.  All these she might have avoided had she been willing
to listen to the offers of marriage that were made to her.  Nothing, however, could make her
forget the allegiance which she believed she still owed to the man who had first won her heart,
or induce her to neglect her duty to the children of her marriage.  She could never consent
to let them become the property of another man, who might despise and ill-treat them, and who
at any rate would never have for them the kind of affection which would lead him to make the
sacrifices necessary to help them towards gaining a better position in life.  Accordingly,
she struggled on, enduring the greatest sufferings in order to provide for the needs of her
sons as they gradually grew up; and eventually, owing to the hardships which she had borne
so heroically, they all passed with honour through their examinations into the service of the
Emperor.

On her death her story was forwarded to the capital, and his Majesty was so much moved by it
that he gave his sanction for an arch to be erected to her memory, in order that for ages to
come the crowds passing daily under its shadow might read the record of her self-sacrifice,
and might learn how an admiring community had built this imperishable memorial of her wifely
and motherly virtues.

But of all the numerous arches spanning the road there was one which attracted more attention
than any other in the long line.

This was not because the virtues of the person, in whose honour it was raised, were so conspicuous,
or because they so far outrivalled those recorded on the other arches, that men were constrained
to stop and ponder over a life so remarkable for its heroism.

On the contrary, no virtues of any kind were mentioned.  On the central arch, in large letters
cut into the granite stone, were the words: "The Wonderful Man"; and that was all.  Not a word
of explanation was given as to who this wonderful man was; not a hint as to the special story
of his life.

Scholars passing along the dusty road would catch a sight of this brief but cryptic inscription,
and would at once be set wondering what a phrase so unclassical and so mysterious could possibly
mean.  They would walk round to the other side of the arch, to see if any explanation were
afforded there.  But no, the inscription was simply repeated in the same cold and veiled language;
and so they would pass on, no wiser than before.

Farmers, with produce of their own growing suspended from their shoulders on stout bamboo poles,
would come along at their accustomed trot, and would gaze at these words, "The wonderful man,"
with a curious look on their faces.  They were not profound scholars, for on account of their
poverty they had been compelled to leave school before they had mastered the ancient characters
which make up the Chinese written language; but they knew enough to read such simple words
as these.  But what did the words really mean?  They would laugh and joke with each other about
them as they sped on their way, and many a witty suggestion would be merrily thrown out as
a solution of the mystery.

The story that really lay behind this strange inscription was after all a most romantic and
a most pathetic one.

Many years before, in a village beyond the hills skirting the plain on which the city was built,
there lived a family of three; that is to say, a man and his wife and their little son.  It
was a supremely happy home.  The husband and wife were devotedly attached to each other, and
the ambition of every family amongst the four hundred millions of China had been granted them;
for they had a son, who in the future would perpetuate the father's name, and present at his
grave sacrificial offerings which would reach him in the Land of Shadows and keep him from
starvation there.

The one great sorrow of the home was its poverty.  There was no question but that they were
exceedingly poor; and every morning, as the dawn broke upon them, they felt that they stood
close up to the line beyond which lay hunger and even starvation.

But China is full of homes in such a situation.  In this respect, indeed, the country is a
land of heroes and heroines, for with vast masses of the people it is a daily struggle for
food.  Millions scattered throughout the Empire never or very rarely get enough to eat, and
yet with splendid and pathetic patience they set themselves to suffer and to die, sternly and
uncomplainingly, as becomes an Imperial race such as the Chinese are.

All that this particular family had to live upon were a few diminutive fields, which under
the most favourable circumstances could produce barely enough sweet potatoes to keep body and
soul together, and a scanty supply of vegetables with which to season them.  If the rains failed
and the potato vines were parched and blasted in their ridges by the great red-hot sun, then
the husband had to look out for some other means of earning enough money to provide the bare
necessaries of life for his little home.

Sometimes he would engage himself as a porter to carry the produce of the larger farmers to
the great market-town which lay ten miles distant; but even then he could earn only just enough
to provide the most meagre fare for his family for a week or two at the very most.

At other times he would secure better-paid employment by carrying a sedan-chair to some distant
place, which would take him from home for several days at a time.  He would return, it is true,
with some goodly strings of cash, which would make his wife's eyes gleam with satisfaction
at the possibilities they contained for at least another month of better food for them all;
but it was dearly earned money.  The man had not been trained as a chairbearer, and so had
not learned the knack of manipulating the cross-bars, which rested on his shoulders, in such
a way as to make the heavy burden less distressing to him.  The result was that every time
he returned from one of these expeditions, he was so seriously knocked up that for several
days he had to lie in bed and refrain from all work.

Time went on, and the severe strain of his labour, and the poor quality of the food upon which
he had to live, and the constant wear and tear of a constitution that never had been very strong,
told upon the poor, overworked father.  Gradually he became a confirmed invalid, so that he
could not perform even the lightest work on his little farm.  The shadows of coming misfortune
grew darker and blacker every day.  Hope began to abandon the hearts of husband and wife, and
the sound of the footsteps of cruel Fate could almost be heard, as they drew nearer and nearer.
Still these two heroic souls uttered no complaints, and there were no signs of heartbreak,
except occasionally when the wife's eyes overflowed with tears, which she brushed hastily away
lest her husband should see them and be distressed.

One night the storm was blowing a north-east gale outside, and the wind howled and moaned in
such weird and doleful tones around the cottage, that it seemed as though some troubled spirit
had been let loose to wail out a solemn requiem over a departing soul.

The Chinese believe that the air is filled with demons who have a mortal hatred of human beings,
and who are ever on the watch to compass their destruction.  These evil spirits gather round
when disaster is about to fall on a home.  They stand with invisible forms and peer into the
darkened room, where some one lies dying, and they breathe out their delight in unholy sounds
that strike terror into the hearts of the watchers.

In her anxiety about her husband the wife had not been able to sleep. Her heart throbbed with
an infinite pain, and suppressed sobs now and again showed the anguish of her spirit.  She
began to realize, during this dreadful night, that her husband was exceedingly ill and might
very probably die.  The storm which raged outside, and the furious blasts and the uncanny sounds
in the air, had terrified her and made her nervous.

It was true that only that day she had gone to the nearest temple, and had been assured by
the god that her husband was going to recover; but he had been growing steadily weaker and
weaker, and now the tempest had broken her courage and filled her with an unspeakable dread.
What a tumult there was outside!  Whose were the hideous voices that shrieked round the building,
and whose were the hands that tore at the doors and windows until they shook and rattled under
their grasp?

At last she could stand it no longer.  She felt she must get up and see whether the mad and
furious spirits, who had evidently gathered in force around the dwelling, were going to prove
to be true prophets of evil.

The room was in darkness, so she lit the tiny wick that lay in a saucer of oil, and, peering
into her husband's face, she looked with all her heart in her eyes into his sunken features.
He seemed to know her, for a wan and wintry smile flickered round his lips and died out in
a moment.  She gazed at him with an almost breaking heart, for her instinct told her that the
greyness of his face and the sudden paling of his lips were the forerunners of death.  A long-drawn
sigh, and a sob or two, and the one who was the dearest to her in all the world had left her
forever.

After the funeral, which swallowed up everything she possessed, even to the very fields, which
she had been compelled to sell in order to meet the expenses, the widow was left almost destitute.
She was a woman, however, with a very strong character, and she realized the absolute necessity
of making up her mind at once as to her course of action. That she should marry again seemed
to every one the only course open to her; but this she determined she would never do.  The
memory of her dead husband was too precious to her, and besides it was her duty to rear up
her little son to manhood, so that he might take his place amongst the scholars and thinkers
of the Empire.

Soon a scheme, as original as it was daring, sprang up within her brain.  No one must ever
learn what it was.  It must be the secret of her life, which she should bury within her own
bosom, and which not even her own son should ever know, if she could possibly help it.

Having sold her cottage, she moved away to a quiet suburb outside the great city which was
so renowned for learning.  Then she discarded her woman's attire and dressed herself as a man.
In no other way could she support herself and her child, for in China a woman is always under
great disadvantages in the way of earning her own living.  As a man, she knew that she could
hold her own in any of the unskilled employments which she was capable of taking up.  And so
it turned out. She could carry as heavy a load as any of the men with whom she had to compete,
and she was so civil and so well-behaved and so free from the use of profane language, that
employers unaware of her sex used to pick her out in preference to others who offered themselves.

The years went by, and her little son was growing up to be a fine young man.  The mother had
determined that he should be a scholar.  This was the one ambition of her life, and for this
she slaved and toiled and denied herself almost the very necessaries of life.

Twenty years had passed since that stormy night.  In the neighbouring city, the triennial examinations
were just finished and the excitement was intense amongst the thousands of students who gathered
round the Examination Hall to learn the names of the successful candidates.

By-and-by the son came home with a light step and with his eyes flashing with delight.  His
excitement was so great that he could hardly utter distinctly the words which rushed from his lips.

"Father," he cried, "the great desire of your heart and of mine has been granted to us to-day.
I have passed, and that too with honours, for my name stands at the very top of the list of
those who have been adjudged successful.  And now, my beloved father, there will be no more
hard work for you.  My name will soon be flashed throughout the Province and will be posted
in every Confucian guild, and scholars everywhere will speak with admiration of the great success
I have won. My fortune has indeed been made, and it is due entirely to your self-denial, and
to the sufferings and hardships you have consented to endure, during the long years of the
past, that I have at length come into my kingdom, and that I need not be a labouring man, earning
but a few cash a day, as you, my dear father, have been willing to do for the love of me."

All the time her son was talking, the mother's face shone with delight, for the hopes and wishes
of a lifetime had come to her with a rush that almost overpowered her.

"Ah! if only my husband could have been with us now," she thought, "to share with us the supreme
joy of this moment!"  And her memory wandered back to that dreadful night, the blackest she
had ever known in her life; and the roar of the storm which had thundered round the poor little
shanty of a home and the ominous wailings of the spirits of evil which had struck a chill into
her very blood, once more sounded in her ears as though the tragedy had happened only the night
before.

In the fulness of the new joy which had suddenly transformed his life, the son went on to talk
of the plans that he had been mapping out for the future.  There would be no lack of money
any more, he said, for employment would open up to him in all directions.  He would be invited
by the wealthy men of the city to teach their sons.  He was a notable scholar now, and men
of means would compete with each other to secure his services.

Before long too, he would be certain to obtain a government appointment which would bring riches
into the home; and then his father would be a gentleman, and would live with him in his yamen,
and be treated by all with honour and respect.  And so with glowing face and glistening eyes,
as the visions of the future rose up before him, the boy talked on with the enthusiasm of youth,
whilst his mother gazed at him with admiring eyes.

At last he suddenly stopped.  The laughter died out of his countenance, and with a grave and
solemn face he exclaimed, "Father, I want you to tell me where my mother is buried.  I must
arrange to go to her grave and make the proper offerings to her spirit, and tell her how her
son has prospered, and how grateful he is to her.  That is my duty as a filial son, and I must
not delay in performing it."

The young fellow did not notice the deadly pallor that spread over his parent's face as he
uttered these words.  He did not know that they produced a feeling of despair in the heart
of his mother, for she now felt that she had come to the end of her life.  She was a true and
noble woman, with a high ideal of what a woman's life ought to be, and she dared not face the
opinion of the world when it was discovered that she had lived as a man, and for many years
had freely mingled with men. She had violated the laws of etiquette which regulate the conduct
of women in every grade of society, and now the only thing left for her to do was to die.

Next morning, at sunrise, when the son entered his father's room, as was his daily custom,
he found him lying upon his bed, dead, but marvellous to say, dressed in a woman's clothes.
That the death was not accidental could be seen at a glance.  The body lay prepared as if for
a funeral.  The clothes and the dressing of the hair, and the other minute details necessary
in laying out a body for burial, had all been attended to.  No outside hands need touch her,
and no curious or unsympathetic eyes be gratified by peering too deeply into the mystery of
her life.

The story spread with wonderful rapidity from the suburbs into the city.  There it was discussed
in every home, gentle and simple.  The universal feeling was one of intense admiration for
the devotion and heroism which had caused the mother to sacrifice her life for her son, and
the mandarins and scholars petitioned the Emperor to issue an edict permitting an arch to be
erected in order that the memory of such a noble woman should be kept alive for ever.

This petition was granted; and it was decided that the inscription to be carved upon the arch
should consist simply of these words: "THE WONDERFUL MAN."

VIII

THE GOD OF THE CITY

One evening in the distant past a fisherman anchored his boat near the bank of a stream which
flowed close by a great city, whose walls could be seen rising grey and rugged in the near
distance.  The sound of life fell upon his ear and kept him from feeling lonely.  Coolies,
with bamboo carrying-poles on their shoulders, tired out with the heavy work of the day, hurried
by afraid lest the darkness should overtake them before they reached their homes.  The bearers
of sedan-chairs, which they had carried for many a weary mile, strode by with quickened step
and with an imperious shout at the foot passengers to get out of their way and not block up
the narrow road by which they would gain the city walls before the great gates were closed
for the night.

By the time that the afterglow had died out of the sky and the distant hills were blotted out
of the horizon, the fisherman had finished the cooking of his evening meal.  The rice sent
a fragrant odour from the wide-mouthed pan in which it lay white and appetizing.  A few of
the very small fish he had caught in the river had been fried to a brown and savoury-looking
colour, and he was just about to sit down and enjoy his supper when, happening to look round,
he saw a stranger sitting in the after part of the boat.

He was greatly amazed and was about to express his surprise, when something about the appearance
of this unexpected visitor kept him spell-bound.  For the stranger had a fine scholarly look
about him, and the air of a man belonging to a good family.  He had, moreover, a benevolent,
kindly face, which could not fail to win the confidence of anyone who gazed upon it.

Whilst the fisherman was wondering who his visitor was and how he had managed to come so mysteriously
into the boat, the stranger said: "Allow me to explain who I am and to apologise for intruding
on you without first having got your permission to do so.  I am the spirit of a man who two
years ago was drowned not very far from where your boat is now anchored.  Many attempts have
I made to inveigle others into the river, so that I might be free to leave the spot to which
my miserable fate binds me until another unhappy wretch shall take my place."

The spirit of a drowned person is condemned to hover round the spot where his life was lost,
until, either by accident or by the wiles of the sufferer, someone else perishes in the water
and thus takes the place of the spirit, which then travels with lightning speed to the Land
of Shadows.

"I was so dull this evening," continued the stranger, "that I felt impelled to come and have
a chat with you for a short time.  So I hope you will take my visit in good part, and allow
me to sit in your boat until it is time for you to go to bed."

The fisherman, who was greatly taken with his courtly visitor, expressed his great pleasure
in receiving him, and invited him to share his evening meal and to make himself quite at home
for as long as he liked.

After this the solitary spirit of the river used frequently to come and spend an evening with
the fisherman, until quite a friendship sprang up between them.  One evening this ghostly visitor
appeared with a face covered with smiles and with a glad note of joy in his voice.  No sooner
had he sat down than he said, "This is the last evening I shall be able to spend with you.
The long weary time of waiting is now nearly at an end, and to-morrow another victim to the
river will give me my release and you will see me no more."

Now, the fisherman was a deeply benevolent man, and he was most anxious to see what unhappy
person was to be drowned on the morrow.  About midday, as he was watching by the river-side,
he saw a poor woman, weeping and sobbing, come rushing with hasty steps towards the water.
Her hair was dishevelled, and her eyes red with tears, and frequent cries of sorrow burst from
her lips.  Straight as an arrow she made for the stream, and was just preparing to throw herself
into it, when the fisherman in a loud and commanding voice told her to stop.

He then asked her what was the matter and what reason there was for her to sacrifice her life
in the river.

"I am a most unhappy woman," she replied.  "On my way home just now I was waylaid by a footpad,
who robbed me of some money that I was taking back to my husband.  This money was to pay a
debt we owed to a man who threatens us with the severest penalties if we do not give it to
him to-day.  Far rather would I face death than see the sorrow which would overwhelm my husband
if I told him my sorrowful story."

Having asked her how much money had been taken from her, the fisherman presented the woman
with the exact amount, and soon she was proceeding with joyful footsteps in the direction of
her home.

That same evening the fisherman was again visited by the spirit who had bidden him an eternal
farewell the previous evening.

"What did you mean," asked the visitor, "by depriving me of the one chance I had of gaining
my freedom?"

"I could not bear to see the sorrow of the poor woman," replied the fisherman, "nor to think
of the tragedy to her home had she perished in the stream, and so I saved her."  With eloquent
lips he proceeded to describe the beauty of benevolence, and urged upon his guest the nobler
course of trying to save life even at the expense of his own happiness. In the end the latter
was so deeply moved that he promised never again to make any attempt to gain his liberty through
another's death, even though this should mean that he would have to spend long ages of misery
in the fatal stream.

Years went by, and yet for the imprisoned spirit there came no release. Cases of suicide or
accidental drowning in the flowing stream ceased altogether.  Many a life that would have perished
was saved from destruction by mysterious warnings which came from the sullen water, and which
terrified away the would-be suicides as they were about to hurl themselves into it.

At length Kwan-yin, the Goddess of Mercy, moved by the sight of such a generous sacrifice of
self in order to save the souls of unfortunate people who had become weary of life, released
this noble spirit from its watery prison.  Moreover, as she felt convinced that such a man
could safely be entrusted with the destinies of those who might appear before his tribunal,
she made him a god and decreed that temples should be erected to him in every town and city
of the Empire, so that all who were suffering wrong or injustice could have their causes righted
at the shrine of one who had shown such profound devotion and sympathy for others in distress.

Such is the story of the God of the City.

Since he is regarded as the representative of the dread ruler of the Land of Shadows, his temple
has been erected very much in the same style as the courts of the Mandarins.  Its main entrance
is large and imposing, and the great gates suggest those of the yamen of some high official.

Within these is an immense courtyard, paved with slabs of granite, and on each side of this
there are six life-size statues of the "runners," or policemen, of the god, who stand ready
to carry out his decisions, and to pursue and capture by invisible and mysterious processes
those whom he has condemned as guilty.  The faces of these figures are distorted by passion,
and their attitudes are such as men might be conceived to assume in apprehending some notorious
criminal whom Yam-lo had ordered to be seized.

At the end of this spacious courtyard is the shrine of the god, but he is so hidden behind
a yellow curtain that it is impossible to catch a glimpse of his image.  In front of him are
statues of his two secretaries, who, with huge pens in their hands, stand ready day and night
to take down the petitions and indictments laid before the god by those who are in sorrow or
who are suffering wrong.

One afternoon the peace of such a temple was suddenly disturbed by a noisy clamour outside,
and the sound of hurried footsteps as of a crowd rushing through the main gates.  Two men advanced
with rapid, excited strides straight past the demon policeman at the door, who seemed to scowl
with added ferocity as they gazed at the actors in a scene with which they would have much
to do by-and-by.

The two men were quite young, a little over twenty; and behind them followed a string of idlers
and loafers and street arabs, who seem to spring up like magic when anything unusual happens.
One of the young men was slightly ahead of the crowd.  His face was flushed and his black eyes
sparkled with excitement, whilst in his left hand he carried a large white cock.  He was the
complainant, and his purpose in coming to the temple was to appeal to the god to vindicate
his honour.

He took his stand in front of the idol, and the secretaries, with pens in their hands, seemed
to put on a strained look of attention as the young fellow produced a roll of paper and began
to read the statement he had drawn up.  It was diffuse and wordy, as most of such documents
are, but the main facts were quite plain.

The two young men were assistants in a shop in the city.  Some little time before, the master
of the shop, without telling either of them, concealed in a chosen place a sum of one hundred
dollars, which he wished to have in readiness in order to pay for certain goods he had purchased.
The previous day, when he went to get the money on the presentation of the bill, he found to
his horror that it had disappeared. I acknowledge that
would have been better for my work that I had written an idyll, a pastoral romance, even a story
like that of Paul and Virginia [1] or Atala and Rene, [2] but this, although more entertaining
and moral, there would have been the portrait of any living person, or description customs and
passions of a people of flesh and blood, subject to special political laws and civil rights, embedded
in a certain order of ideas and surrounded by real and positive influences. Far to invent or fake
characters and fanciful and improbable scenes, I've taken the realism I understand, to the point
of presenting the main characters in the novel with all their hair and signs, as they say, wearing
the suit he wore in life, most under his real first and last name, speaking the same language
used in the historical scenes that included, in what could be copied, d'après nature [3] its
moral and physical appearance, so that those who knew them by sight or by tradition, easily
recognize them and say at least: the resemblance is undeniable.

Hardly have aspired to something else. All I have to add in my conscience, if someone deems
that painting is nothing holy or edifying is that, by placing the action of the novel in the Havana
theater and season run from 1812 to 1831, I found characters that could represent faithfully the paper
medium, for example, the payo Lorenzo, or Don Abundio the timid, or the energetic Father Christopher,
the saint or the Archbishop Carlos Borromeo, to step abounded that could happen, without contradiction,
faithful copies of the pipes, the stagehands and Don Rodrigo, thugs, brave and libertine,
whose generation seems to be all countries and all ages.

Neither should be attributed to lack of the author if the picture is not shown, no lesson, not
teach delight. The most I have been given to do is to refrain from any indecent or vulgar paint,
missing was easy to make, bearing in mind the conditions, the character and passions of the
majority of actors in the novel, because I have never believed that the writer public in an
effort to seem true and accurate painter of manners, you forget that you deserve respect virtue
and modesty of the reader.

Moreover, if the work comes to light now complete, contains all speech defects and style that
brought the first volume printed in Havana, if there is greater fairness and truth in painting
characters, if they are removed certain scenes and little phrases or doubtful morality, if the
general tone of the composition is more uniform and animated, in much part to the advice of
my wife, with whom I have consulted chapter after chapter, As was
concluded.

C. VILLAVERDE

New York, May, 1879

PART

CHAPTER I

Such is the fruit
of sin, Tello, harvest of pain.

     
      SOLIS

        

Towards dusk one day in November 1812, following the street Compostela direction north of the
city, a carriage pulled by two mules, one of which, as was customary, he rode the black coachman.
The latter suit, the garrisons of those and solid silver ornaments, showed clearly that the person
was rich belonging as luxurious luggage. Was pinned to the cabochons, not only from the front, but
also on one side and the other half - the curtain or cloth cap with a band of cowhide. Be
the one who held the carriage was at the time, there is no denying he was interested in save the
mystery, though it seemed excused caution, since there was no living soul in the streets, or
another light could see the stars, or some artificial houses that escaped through the wide cracks
of closed doors.

Suddenly stopped the mules trotted into the corner of the alley of San Juan de Dios and left
space and no little trouble with the buggy a tall, good job, evening dress black buttoned to
the neck, revealing underneath the vest or light-colored waistcoat, carranclán pants up, tie
bristle and beaver hat with enormous glass wing narrow. As could be discerned in the half light
of the stars, the factions most notable were the nose man, who was hooked, very bright eyes,
the face oval and small beard. The color of it and the hair, shades and hat altered the convent
walls neighbor, obscured perhaps without being black.

- Follow up the street from the Stoned - said the gentleman in an imperious tone, lower support
left hand on the saddle of the mule yards - and looks away to the corner. If round to give
you, say you belong to Don Joaquin Gomez and awaiting orders. Do you understand, Pio?

- Yes, sir, "replied the coachman, who since he started talking about his master had his hat
in hand.

And following the passage of mules to the point that you said that.

Alley San Juan de Dios consists of two blocks only, closed at one end on the walls of the convent
of Santa Catalina and the other in the houses of the street Havana. The hospital of San Juan de
Dios, which gives its name, and which high and square windows, always let out the hot breath of
the sick, occupies an entire side of the second block and the other three small houses and a single
red tile floor, the last notably higher than the street level, with one and two stone steps to the
door. The best looking of them were entering the first block of the street de Compostela. Were
all the same size, more or less, single window and door, this cedar with large-headed nails,
painted brick, or mirror it or flown [4] and thick wooden balusters. The floor of the street was in
its primitive natural state, rocky and without sidewalks.

The strange gentleman, leaning against the walls, under the projecting eaves tiles stopped at
the door of the third house on the right and gave two taps with the tip fingers. There no doubt
waiting for him, because soon open what it took to move from door window to the person who removed
the gate that closes on the inside. That was be the mistress of the house, mulatto and 40 years
of age, of medium height, filled with meats, but retained the narrow waist, rounded shoulders, bare,
beautiful head, the rather thick nose, mouth, expressive and very
curly thick hair.

Embroidered shirt wore thin, shirts, and twill skirts without folds or no embellishment.

There was little furniture in the room, leaning against the right wall a mahogany table on which
burned a wax candle in a windshield or lantern, and several heavy chairs cedar cowhide seat and back,
nailed with brass tacks. At that time this had the luxury, much more for a woman of color,
who occupied that room as love and not as a maid. The gentleman shook his hand as he entered,
he only bowed serious while being funny and kind that no contest was even stranger, because
apart their difference in status and race, their respective ages was remarkable at first view and there
was no other relationship between them than friendship, more or less sincere and selfless. Then
he asked in sad tone and approaching women as he could, so as not
to raise voice, that had some anger:

- What about the patient?

The mulatto shook his head in even sadder and said three monosyllables:

-
Ah! badly.

Something more lively, but not despejársele the face, added a little later:

- Did not I the Lord? Entodavía it has to end the coup.

- Why, the gentleman replied ill at ease, did not you told me last night that was better and quiet?

-
I was, yes, sir, but last week has very desinquieta and agitated. He said he gave heat sheets,
it burned the head, and several times tried to get out of bed gasping for air. So it was necessary
to send for the doctor. Wine and prescribed a sedative: took it, because the poor thing takes as
given. Of its result and sleeps like a stone, dispierta and startled. Ay, sir, your dream is
so like death!

I'm afraid, very fear. I told him Mr. the outset, the blow was too
much.

That girl not have the strength to endure. Ah! my lord, this made the miss, I'm looking; has
given me heart.

And he said no more, because the emotion in his voice choked her throat.

- I see you flinch, sign Josefa, "said the stranger softly and feeling. Why, has not tried to
convince you that separation is only a short time? It's not her any girl ...

- What if I have not tried! The Lord seems to not know entodavía. She does not listen to reason.
Is cabecidura the most willful and he was born.

Furthermore, from then that set is not in his right trial and reason. Does the Lord himself
did not try that fatal night to comfort her and reassure her? What drew? Remember what semos:
nothing. The Lord will see for themselves that was chosen bad time to subject it to such a test.
There had been forty days and then Flying had a fever. Yes, and concluded quite shocked and tearful
- I have swallowed me that it does not leave it to trial or alive.

- God will want, Josefa sign that they are not made such dire predictions, said the knight worried.
After a short time he said: - She is young and robust, and yet the nature triumph over all their woes
and sorrows. Trust more in this than in the dark science of physicians. Other than that, you
know you've done done for the good of all rather ... Later I thank you, I'm sure. I could
not and should give her my name. No, no, repeated as embarrassed the echo of his own voice. Nobody
knows better than you. You she is a woman of reason, know and confess that it had to be. Requires
that the girl takes a name, a name that no be ashamed tomorrow, or these other day, Valdes,
that might make a good marriage. To this there was no choice but to pass by the Royal Creche.
This has not been more painful for the mother, I know, that ... all of us. But in a few days the
baptized and then I'll have to bring her here Mary Rule, my woman, that three months it lost a son
from the evil of the seven days, and breastfeeding in order Creche mine. She will return healthy,
and Christian save his mother's arms. I have a fixed all that with Montes de Oca, a doctor from
the Royal House, who often know by the girl.

Al beginning to cry a lot and refused to take the breast of Mary Rule, so enflaqueció a little.
But all that has happened and is now plump and rosy, that is, as I have been informed Montes
de Oca, because I have not seen since the night that I go through the turnstile ... My eyes went
after her. Words can not express how much I took that step ... But otherwise. You know, however,
that there is no mistake.

- Too much I know - said the mulatto wiping away tears. Can not err, no. For Regarding why I'm
quiet, like that in spite of her shrieks, which broke my heart, I made the blue crescent in the
left shoulder, according to Mr. I ordered. I do not know who would hurt more if her or me ... Mother,
mother, my lord, is what got me restless. She can not resist. By force loses his mind or life.
I will repeat the Lord.

Josefa sign, as he called the stranger, knew he was smart woman, but by neglect of their education
often incurred in the common faults of the vulgar language the people in Cuba. Despite the
maturity of their years and their sorrows, retained samples a young beautiful and distinguished,
kindly, loving expression of the mouth and roundness neck, shoulders and arms. He had the
sallow color of the mixture resulting black female and a male Indian, but curly hair and oval
face did not support probability of such marriage, but the black
mother and white father.

When Young took comfortable life, had joys and brushed with people well-bred and well-mannered. Honda
had to be the grief that at the time the afflicted, as were the frequency of sighs repeated contraction
of his eyebrows and the abundance of aqueous humor in their swimming big eyes and dimmed the
brightness. Moreover, his attitude was more despair than true regret. Indeed, as we shall
see, had every reason for one and not missing for that.

It had moments that both characters were silent, each in turn with their own thoughts, insurance
that did not coincide at any point in time that they heard a moan and a piercing scream hatched inside
the house. The woman gave a painful cry, took both hands to the head and ran as desalinated
by the first chamber to the second quarter. Mechanically the gentleman did with his hands the
same movement and quietly followed suit, although at a distance. There was no more light than the fading
of an oil lamp in a table on which stood an altar niche or puppeteer, where a figure revered size, with
robe or woman, who looked to the sky and had stuck a sword in the chest, which looked like silver
handle. On the opposite side was a bed, with silk hangings, and faded, and the head was a
leather chair, that when there came a sign Josefa had vacated an elderly black woman, scrawny,
image of death, whose white hair contrasted ebony with its long neck and bony. He had in his
right hand a rosary and several scapulars the breast on white shirt;
spans the size of the canvas skirt, a black belt and long to the Augustinian
friar.

I was like embedded or praying with great fervor, and touch Josefa sign on the shoulder, suddenly
raised his head, turned to the door of the room, she saw the stranger standing, made a gesture
of horror or fright and disappeared the back door without a word.

Josefa sign took its place. Gingerly opened the curtains of the bed, and by signs told Knight
to come close to what he did, apparently in disgust. Their eyes stared into the pale face of
a girl of 20 years, lying face up and apparently dead. Why not move at the time, had sunken eyes
and eyelids closed, which eyelashes were so long that shaded cheeks. The head was all I had out
of the sheets, and that almost buried in the pillow, which disappeared under a bush black hair,
wavy and spread everywhere in the greatest disorder. Middle of that black background highlighted
the oval face, pale wax ill with acute beard, square, high forehead, small mouth, lips, lips,
nose and very well done Women of mixed race, as indeed was it that now in question. The set was
well, women's, but had such a look of anguish and melancholy in his
face withered by the disease, which was pitiful to the viewer.

Moved by this feeling may sign Josefa whispered the gentleman - has fallen asleep.

The gentleman's response was shaking his head negatively, perhaps because at that moment thought
he noticed a convulsive shudder that ran from head to foot the entire body of the patient.
After the quake laid at the feet began chest, easily perceived motion over the sheet, as a calm
sea wave that picks up suddenly and sigh precursor then blew the bottom of the heart, accompanied
by an acute painful groan. Understanding the gentleman what should occur, could not help it,
paragraphs one and hidden view and gradually withdrew to the foot
of the bed.

Built at the moment the patient, exclaimed with an air of dread:

-
Mommy!

Was their mercy?

- My daughter! What? Are you better?

- Ah! Mammy! continued the girl in the same air of bewildered .--
I've seen, just see.

Yes, I have no doubt.

There he is! added, pointing to the sky.

It goes! I take it! Must be dead. Ah - and let slip another piercing scream.

- Child! I watched the grieving mother. Dispierta.

You're dreaming or wishful thinking those are yours.

- Come here, Mommy, look at your mercy itself.
Saying it's attracted to her by the arm.

- See it! Is not that the
Blessed Virgin in a cloud of gold, in bare feet, supported on the
wings of angels infinite? She is. Look! Here. There! See. Soar!

-
Vision, my daughter. Never mind. Lie down and rest.

- Do you want
your mercy I sleep, if I carried my daughter, the daughter of my womb?

-
But who takes it, my life?

- Who takes it? Did not you see their
mercy? The Blessed Virgin. He takes her in his arms. She must be dead.  The
only property Lin possesses is this plot of ground, which has come down to him from his forefathers,
and which he hopes one day to dispose of to some well-to-do person as a burying-ground that
may bring him good luck."

"I am very willing to buy the land, if I can only get it at a reasonable price," replied Yin,
"and I shall be glad if you will consent to act as middleman and negotiate the matter for me.
You might go at once and see Lin, and find out what are the terms upon which he is willing
to transfer the property to me."

On the morrow the middle-man returned and reported to Yin that Lin would on no consideration
consent to let him have the ground.  "The fact is," he continued, "that Lin has a settled purpose
in his mind with which this particular plot of land has a good deal to do.  He and his wife
are getting on in years, and when the daughter is married off he is afraid that his branch
of the family will become extinct; so he plans to get a husband for her who will come into
the home and act the part of a son as well as that of son-in-law."

So determined, however, was Yin to gain possession of this particular piece of land that after
considerable negotiations during which it seemed as though the old father would never be moved
from his settled purpose, it was finally agreed that his daughter should be married to Yin's
eldest son, Shung, and that her father and mother should remove to rooms in Yin's family mansion,
where they should be maintained by him in ease and comfort as long as they lived.  Had Yin
been a large-hearted and generous person, this plan would have been an ideal one, but seeing
that he was by nature a stingy, money-grubbing individual, it was attended with the most tragic
results.

No sooner had the deeds of the coveted plot of ground been passed over to him than Yin had
the body of his father, who had been buried in a place far removed from the influence of the
Dragon, transferred to this new location, where he would be in touch with the higher spirits
of the Underworld.  Here, also, he could catch the eye of the mandarin, who day and night would
have his face turned towards him, and who from the very fact of the sympathy that would grow
up between them, must in time give him the mysterious power of turning his grandsons, and their
sons after them, into scholars, who would obtain high positions in the service of the State.

In the meanwhile preparations were being made for the marriage of the young maiden of low degree
to a man in a much higher social position than she could ever have aspired to in the ordinary
course of events. Pearl was a sweet, comely-looking damsel, who would have made a model wife
to one of her own station in life, but who was utterly unsuited for the new dignity which would
be thrust upon her as soon as she crossed the threshold of the wealthy family of Yin.  She
was simply a peasant girl, without education and without refinement.  Her days had been passed
amidst scenes of poverty, and though she was a thoroughly good girl, with the high ideals that
the commonest people in China everywhere have, her proper position was after all amongst the
kind of people with whom she had lived all her life.

Her father and mother had indeed all along been doubtful about the propriety of marrying their
daughter into a family so much above them as the Yins, and for a long time they had stood out
against all the arguments in favour of it.  Finally, overborne by the impetuosity of Yin, and
dazzled with the prospects which such an alliance offered not only to the girl herself but
also to themselves by the agreement to keep them in comfort for the rest of their lives, they
had given an unwilling consent.

In order that Pearl should suffer as little disgrace as possible when she appeared amongst
her new relations, her father sold all his available belongings in order to procure suitable
wedding-garments for her.  His idea, however, of the fitness of things had been gathered from
the humble surroundings in which he had lived all his days, and the silks and satins and expensive
jewellery that adorn the brides of the wealthy had never come within the vision of his dreams.
Still Pearl was a pretty girl, and with her piercing black eyes which always seemed to be suffused
with laughter, and with a smile which looked like a flash from a summer sky, she needed but
little adornment, and would have won the heart of any man who had the soul to appreciate a
true woman when he saw one.

At last the day came, hurried on by the eager desire of Yin to have the whole thing settled,
when the humble home was to be given up and its inmates transferred to the rich house that
lay just over a neighbouring hill.

A magnificent bridal chair, whose brilliant crimson colour made it a conspicuous object on
the grey landscape, wound its way towards the cottage where the bride was attired all ready
to step into it the moment it appeared at the door.

In front of it there marched a band, making the country-side resound with weird notes which
seemed to fly on the air with defiance in their tones, and to send their echoes mounting to
the tops of the hills and piercing down into the silent valleys.  There were also crowds of
retainers and dependants of the wealthy man.  These were dressed in semi-official robes, and
flocked along with smiling faces and joyous shouts.  The occasion was a festal one, and visions
of rare dishes and of generous feasting, kept up for several days, filled the minds of the
happy procession as it went to meet the bride.

The return of the party was still more boisterous in its merriment. The members of the band
seemed inspired by the occasion and sent forth lusty strains, whilst the instruments, as if
aware how much depended upon them, responded to the efforts of the performers and filled the
air with joyful notes.

A distinguished company had assembled to receive the bride, as she was led by her husband from
the crimson chair and advanced with timid steps and faltering heart into the room that had
been prepared for her reception.  As she entered the house something in the air struck a chill
into her heart and caused the hopes of happiness, which she had been cherishing, to die an
almost instant death.

Shung, her husband, was a man of ignoble mind, and had always objected to marrying a woman
so far beneath him.  The sight of his bride, with her rustic air, and the ill-made commonplace-looking
clothes in which she was dressed, made his face burn with shame, for he knew that a sneer was
lurking on the face of everyone who had gathered to have a look at her.

A profound feeling of hatred entered his narrow soul, and as the days went by the one purpose
of his life was to humiliate this sweet-tempered woman, who had been sacrificed simply to further
the ambitious schemes of her designing father-in-law, Mr. Yin.  For a few weeks he simply ignored
her, but by degrees he treated her so cruelly that many a time she had serious thoughts of
putting an end to her life.  It soon turned out that a systematic attempt was being made by
both father and son to get rid of the whole family.

The old father and mother, whom Yin had agreed to provide for during the rest of their lives,
found things so intolerable that they voluntarily left the miserable quarters assigned to them
and returned to their empty cottage.  Every stick of furniture had been sold in order to buy
their daughter's wedding garments, so that when they reached their old home they found absolutely
nothing in it.  With a few bundles of straw they made up a bed on the floor, but there was
no food to eat, and not a single thing to comfort them in this their hour of darkest misery.

Sorrow for their daughter, and disappointment and anguish of heart at the thought of how they
had been tricked and cheated by Mr. Yin in order that he might gain possession of their bit
of land, so told upon their spirits that they both fell ill of a low fever, which laid them
prostrate on their bed of straw.  As they lived remote from other people, for some time no
one knew that they were sick.  Days went by without anyone visiting them, and when at last
one kindly-hearted farmer came to make enquiries, he found to his horror that both husband
and wife lay dead, side by side, in their miserable cabin.

The news of their death produced the greatest pleasure in the mind of the wretched man who
was really the cause of it.  He was now freed from the compact compelling him to provide for
them during their life, and so there would be an actual saving of the money which he would
have had to spend in providing them with food and clothing.  A cruel, wintry smile lingered
on his hard face for several days after the poor old couple had been lain to rest on the hillside
near their cottage, and this was the only look of mourning his features ever assumed.

From this time Pearl's life became more and more of a burden to her. Love, the one element
which would have filled her heart with happiness, was the one thing that was never offered
her.  Instead of affection there were cruel, cutting words and scornful looks and heavy blows--all
these were plentifully bestowed upon her by the soulless man who was called her husband.

At length, to show his utter contempt and abhorrence of her, he arranged with the connivance
of his father to bring a concubine into his home.  This lady came from a comparatively good
family, and was induced to take this secondary position because of the large sum of money that
was paid to her father for her.  The misery of Pearl was only intensified by her appearance
on the scene.  Following the lead of her husband, and jealous of the higher position in the
family that the law gave her rival, she took every means that a spiteful woman could devise
to make her life still more miserable.

The death of her parents had filled Pearl's heart with such intense grief and sorrow that life
had lost all its charm for her.  She saw, moreover, from the sordid rejoicing that was openly
made at their tragic end, that the Yins would never be satisfied until she too had followed
them into the Land of Shadows.  She would therefore anticipate the cruel purposes of her husband
and his father, and so deliver herself from a persecution that would only cease with her death.
So one midnight, when all the rest of the family were asleep, and nothing was heard outside
but the moaning of the wind which seemed as though it was preparing to sing a requiem over
her, she put an end to all her earthly troubles by hanging herself in her own room.

When the body was found next day, suspended from a hook in one of the beams, a great cry of
delight was uttered by Yin and his son.  Without any violence on their part they had been set
free from their alliance with this low-class family, and at a very small cost they had obtained
firm possession of the land which was to enrich and ennoble their descendants.

And so whilst the poor girl lay dead, driven to an untimely end by spirits more fierce and
malignant than any that were supposed to be flying with hatred in their hearts in the air around,
smiles and laughter and noisy congratulations were indulged in by the living ghouls whose persecution
had made this sweet-tempered woman's life unbearable.

But retribution was at hand.  Heaven moves slowly in the punishment of the wicked, but its
footsteps are sure and they travel irresistibly along the road that leads to vengeance on the
wrongdoer.

One dark night, when the sky was overcast and neither moon nor stars were to be seen, and a
storm of unusual violence was filling the air with a tumult of fierce and angry meanings, a
weird and gruesome scene was enacted at the grave where the father of Yin had been buried.
Hideous sounds of wailing and shrieking could be heard, as though all the demons of the infernal
regions had assembled there to hold a night of carnival.  Louder than the storm, the cries
penetrated through the shrillest blasts, and people in their homes far away were wakened out
of their sleep by the unearthly yells which froze their blood with terror.  At last a thunderbolt
rolled from the darkened heavens, louder than ever mortal man had heard.  The lightnings flashed,
and concentrating all their force upon the grave just where the coffin lay, they tore up a
huge chasm in the earth, and gripping the coffin within their fiery fingers, they tossed it
with disdain upon a hillside a mile away.

After a long search, Yin discovered it next day in the lonely spot where it had been cast,
and was returning to make arrangements for its interment, when in a lonely part of the road
two unearthly figures suddenly rose up before him.  These, to his horror, he recognized as
the spirits of Pearl's father and mother who had practically been done to death by him, and
whom Yam-lo had allowed to revisit the earth in order to plague the man who was the author
of their destruction.  So terrified was Yin at their wild and threatening aspect, that he fell
to the ground in a swoon, and thus he was found, hours afterwards, by his son, who had come
out in search of him.

For several days he was tended with the greatest care, and the most famous physicians were
called in to prescribe for him.  He never rallied, however, and there was always a vague and
haunted look in his eyes, as though he saw some terrible vision which frightened away his reasoning
powers and prevented him from regaining consciousness.  In this condition he died, without
a look of recognition for those he loved, and without a word of explanation as to the cause
of this tragic conclusion of a life that was still in its prime.

The eldest son was now master of his father's wealth; but instead of learning a lesson from
the terrible judgment which had fallen on his home because of the injustice and wrong that
had been committed on an innocent family, he only became more hard-hearted in his treatment
of those who were within his power.  He never dreamed of making any reparation for the acts
of cruelty by which he had driven his wife to hang herself in order to escape his tyranny.
But the steps of Fate were still moving on towards him.  Leaden-footed they might be and slow,
but with unerring certainty they were travelling steadily on to carry out the vengeance of
the gods.

By-and-by the room in which Pearl had died became haunted.  Her spectral figure could be seen
in the gloaming, flitting about and peering out of the door with a look of agony on her face.
Sometimes she would be seen in the early dawn, restless and agitated, as though she had been
wandering up and down the whole night; and again she would flit about in the moonlight and
creep into the shadow of the houses, but always with a ghost of the old look that had made
her face so winning and so charming when she was alive.

When it was realized that it was her spirit which was haunting the house, the greatest alarm
and terror were evinced by every one in it. There is nothing more terrible than the appearance
of the spirits of those who have been wronged, for they always come with some vengeful purpose.
No matter how loving the persons themselves may have been in life, with death their whole nature
changes and they are filled with the most passionate desire to inflict injury and especially
death upon the object of their hatred.

The course of ill-usage which her husband Shung had cruelly adopted in order to drive Pearl
to commit suicide was known to every one, and that she should now appear to wreak vengeance
on him was not considered at all wonderful; but still every one was mortally afraid lest they
should become involved in the punishment that was sure to be meted out.

As the ghost continued to linger about and showed no signs of disappearing, Shung was at last
seized with apprehension lest some calamity was about to fall upon his house.  In order to
protect himself from any unexpected attack from the spirit that wandered and fluttered about
in the darkest and most retired rooms in his home, he provided himself with a sword which he
had ground down to a very sharp edge and which he carried in his hand ready uplifted to lunge
at Pearl should she dare to attack him.

One evening, unaware that his concubine was sitting in a certain room on which the shadows
had thickly fallen, he was entering it for some purpose, when the spirit of his late wife gripped
his hand with an overmastering force which he felt himself unable to resist, and forced him
to strike repeated blows against the poor defenceless woman.  Not more than a dozen of these
had been given before she was lying senseless on the ground, breathing out her life from the
gaping wounds through which her life-blood was flowing in streams.

When the grip of the ghost had relaxed its hold upon him and he felt himself free to look at
what he had done, Shung was horrified beyond measure as he gazed with staring eyes upon the
dreadful sight before him, and realized the judgment that had come upon him for the wrongs
he had done to Pearl and her family.

As soon as the news of the murder of the woman was carried to her father, he entered a complaint
before the nearest mandarin, who issued a warrant for Shung's apprehension.  At his trial he
attempted to defend himself by declaring that it was not he who had killed his concubine, but
an evil spirit which had caught hold of his arm and had directed the blows that had caused
her death.

The magistrate smiled at this extraordinary defence, and said that Shung must consider him
a great fool if he thought for a moment that he would be willing to accept such a ridiculous
excuse for the dreadful crime he had committed.

As Shung was a wealthy man and had the means of bribing the under-officials in the yamen, his
case was remanded in order to see how much money could be squeezed out of him before the final
sentence was given.  The murder--apparently without reason or provocation--of a woman who had
been a member of a prominent family in society, produced a widespread feeling of indignation,
and public opinion was strong in condemnation of Shung.  Every one felt that there ought to
be exemplary punishment in his case; otherwise any man who had only money enough might be able
to defy all the great principles established by Heaven for the government of society and for
the prevention of crime.

In order to make it easy for Shung whilst he was in prison, his mother had to spend large sums
in bribing every one connected with the yamen. Never before had such an opportunity for reaping
a golden harvest been presented to the avaricious minions entrusted by the Emperor with the
administration of justice amongst his subjects.  In her anxiety for her son the poor woman
sold field after field to find funds wherewith to meet the demands of these greedy officials.
Dark hints had simply to be thrown out by some of these that Shung was in danger of his life,
and fresh sales would be made to bribe the mandarin to be lenient in his judgment of him.

At length the property had all been disposed of, and when it was known that no further money
could be obtained, sentence was given that Shung should be imprisoned for life.  This was a
cruel blow to his mother, who had all along hoped that he might be released.  Full of sorrow
and absolutely penniless in a few weeks she died of a broken heart, whilst the son, seeing
nothing but a hopeless imprisonment before him, committed suicide and thus ended his worthless
life.

This tragic extinction of a family, which only a short year before was in the highest state
of prosperity, was accepted by every one who heard the story as a just and righteous punishment
from Heaven.  For Heaven is so careful of human life that any one who destroys it comes under
the inevitable law that he too shall in his turn be crushed under the wheels of avenging justice.

X

SAM-CHUNG AND THE WATER DEMON

Sam-chung was one of the most famous men in the history of the Buddhist Church, and had distinguished
himself by the earnestness and self-denial with which he had entered on the pursuit of eternal
life. His mind had been greatly exercised and distressed at the pains and sorrows which mankind
were apparently doomed to endure.  Even those, however, terrible as they were, he could have
managed to tolerate had they not ended, in the case of every human being, in the crowning calamity
which comes upon all at the close of life.

Death was the great mystery which cast its shadow on every human being. It invaded every home.
The sage whose virtues and teachings were the means of uplifting countless generations of men
came under its great law.  Men of infamous and abandoned character seemed often to outlive
the more virtuous of their fellow-beings; but they too, when the gods saw fit, were hurried
off without any ceremony.  Even the little ones, who had never violated any of the laws of
Heaven, came under this universal scourge; and many of them, who had only just commenced to
live were driven out into the Land of Shadows by this mysterious force which dominates all
human life.

Accordingly Sam-Chung wanted to be freed from the power of death, so that its shadow should
never darken his life in the years to come.

After careful enquiry, and through friendly hints from men who, he had reason to believe, were
fairies in disguise and had been sent by the Goddess of Mercy to help those who aspired after
a higher life, he learned that it was possible by the constant pursuit of virtue to arrive
at that stage of existence in which death would lose all its power to injure, and men should
become immortal.  This boon of eternal life could be won by every man or woman who was willing
to pay the price for so precious a gift.  It could be gained by great self-denial, by willingness
to suffer, and especially by the exhibition of profound love and sympathy for those who were
in sorrow of any kind.  It appeared, indeed, that the one thing most imperatively demanded
by the gods from those who aspired to enter their ranks was that they should be possessed of
a divine compassion, and that their supreme object should be the succouring of distressed humanity.
Without this compassion any personal sacrifice that might be made in the search for immortality
would be absolutely useless.

Sam-Chung was already conscious that he was a favourite of the gods, for they had given him
two companions, both with supernatural powers, to enable him to contend against the cunning
schemes of the evil spirits, who are ever planning how to thwart and destroy those whose hearts
are set upon higher things.

One day, accompanied by Chiau and Chu, the two attendants commissioned by the Goddess of Mercy
to attend upon him, Sam-Chung started on his long journey for the famous Tien-ho river, to
cross which is the ambition of every pilgrim on his way to the land of the Immortals. They
endured many weeks of painful travelling over high mountains and through deep valleys which
lay in constant shadow, and across sandy deserts where men perished of thirst or were struck
down by the scorching heat of the sun, before they met any of the infernal foes that they expected
to be lying in wait for them.

Weary and footsore, they at last arrived one evening on the shores of the mighty Tien-ho, just
as the sun was setting.  The glory of the clouds in the west streamed on to the waters of the
river, and made them sparkle with a beauty which seemed to our wearied travellers to transform
them into something more than earthly.  The river here was so wide that it looked like an inland
sea.  There was no sign of land on the distant horizon, nothing but one interminable vista
of waters, stretching away as far as the eye could reach.

One thing, however, greatly disappointed Sam-Chung and his companions, and that was the absence
of boats.  They had planned to engage one, and by travelling across the river during the night,
they hoped to hurry on their way and at the same time to rest and refresh themselves after
the fatigues they had been compelled to endure on their long land journey.

It now became a very serious question with them where they were to spend the night.  There
was no sign of any human habitation round about.  There was the sandy beach along which they
were walking, and there was the wide expanse of the river, on which the evening mists were
slowly gathering; but no appearance of life.  Just as they were wondering what course they
should pursue, the faint sound of some musical instruments came floating on the air and caught
their ear. Hastening forward in the direction from which the music came, they ascended a piece
of rising ground, from the top of which they were delighted to see a village nestling on the
hillside, and a small temple standing on the very margin of the river.

With hearts overjoyed at the prospect of gaining some place where they could lodge for the
night, they hurried forward to the hamlet in front of them.  As they drew nearer, the sounds
of music became louder and more distinct.  They concluded that some festival was being observed,
or that some happy gathering amongst the people had thrown them all into a holiday mood.  Entering
the village, they made their way to a house which stood out prominently from the rest, and
which was better built than any others they could see.  Besides, it was the one from which
the music issued, and around its doors was gathered a number of people who had evidently been
attending some feast inside.

As the three travellers came up to the door, a venerable-looking old man came out to meet them.
Seeing that they were strangers, he courteously invited them to enter; and on Sam-Chung asking
whether they could be entertained for the night, he assured them that there was ample room
for them in the house, and that he gladly welcomed them to be his guests for as long as it
was their pleasure to remain.

"In the meanwhile you must come in," he said, "and have some food, for you must be tired and
hungry after travelling so far, and the tables are still covered with the good things which
were prepared for the feast to-day."

After they had finished their meal, they began to talk to the old gentleman who was so kindly
entertaining them.  They were greatly pleased with his courtesy and with the hearty hospitality
which he had pressed upon them.  They noticed, however, that he was very absent-minded, and
looked as if some unpleasant thought lay heavy on his heart.

"May I ask," said Sam-Chung, "what was the reason for the great gathering here to-day?  There
is no festival in the Chinese calendar falling on this date, so I thought I would take the
liberty of enquiring what occasion you were really commemorating."

"We were not commemorating anything," the old man replied with a grave face.  "It was really
a funeral service for two of my grand-children, who, though they are not yet dead, will certainly
disappear out of this life before many hours have passed."

"But how can such a ceremony be performed over persons who are still alive?" asked Sam-Chung
with a look of wonder in his face.

"When I have explained the circumstances to you, you will then be no longer surprised at this
unusual service," replied the old man.

"You must know," he continued, "that this region is under the control of a Demon of a most
cruel and bloodthirsty disposition.  He is not like the ordinary spirits, whose images are
enshrined in our temples, and whose main aim is to protect and guard their worshippers.  This
one has no love for mankind, but on the contrary the bitterest hatred, and his whole life seems
to be occupied in scheming how he may inflict sorrow and disaster on them.  His greatest cruelty
is to insist that every year just about this time two children, one a boy and the other a girl,
shall be conveyed to his temple by the river side to be devoured by him.   Many attempts have
been made to resist this barbarous demand, but they have only resulted in increased suffering
to those who have dared to oppose him.  The consequence is that the people submit to this cruel
murder of their children, though many a heart is broken at the loss of those dearest to them."

"But is there any system by which the unfortunate people may get to know when this terrible
sacrifice is going to be demanded from them?" asked Sam-Chung.

"Oh yes," replied the man.  "The families are taken in rotation, and when each one's turn comes
round, their children are prepared for the sacrifice.  Moreover, that there may be no mistake,
the Demon himself appears in the home a few days before, and gives a threatening command to
have the victims ready on such a date.  Only the day before yesterday, this summons came to
us to have our children ready by to-morrow morning at break of day.  That is why we had a feast
to-day, and performed the funeral rites for the dead, so that their spirits may not be held
under the control of this merciless Damon, but may in time be permitted to issue from the Land
of Shadows, and be born again under happier circumstances into this world, which they are leaving
under such tragic circumstances."

"But what is the Demon like?" enquired Sam-Chung.

"Oh, no one can ever tell what he is like," said the man.  "He has no bodily form that one
can look upon.  His presence is known by a strong blast of wind which fills the place with
a peculiar odour, and with an influence so subtle that you feel yourself within the grip of
a powerful force, and instinctively bow your head as though you were in the presence of a being
who could destroy you in a moment were he so disposed."

"One more question and I have finished," said Sam-Chung.  "Where did this Demon come from,
and how is it that he has acquired such an overmastering supremacy over the lives of men, that
he seems able to defy even Heaven itself, and all the great hosts of kindly gods who are working
for the salvation of mankind?"

"This Demon," the man replied, "was once an inhabitant of the Western Heaven, and under the
direct control of the Goddess of Mercy.  He must, however, have been filled with evil devices
and fiendish instincts from the very beginning, for he seized the first opportunity to escape
to earth, and to take up his residence in the grottoes and caverns that lie deep down beneath
the waters of the Tien-ho.  Other spirits almost as bad as himself have also taken up their
abode there, and they combine their forces to bring calamity and disaster upon the people of
this region."

Sam-Chung, whose heart was filled with the tenderest feelings of compassion for all living
things, so much so that his name was a familiar one even amongst the Immortals in the far-off
Western Heaven, felt himself stirred by a mighty indignation when he thought of how innocent
childhood had been sacrificed to minister to the unnatural passion of this depraved Demon.
Chiau and Chu were as profoundly indignant as he, and a serious consultation ensued as to the
best methods to be adopted to save the little ones who were doomed to destruction on the morrow,
and at the same time to break the monster's rule so that it should cease for ever.

Chiau, who was the more daring of the two whom I the goddess had deputed to protect Sam-Chung,
at length cried out with flashing eyes, "I will personate the boy, Chu shall act the girl,
and together we will fight the Demon and overthrow and kill him, and so deliver the people
from his dreadful tyranny."

Turning to the old man, he said, "Bring the children here so that we may see them, and make
our plans so perfect that the Demon with all his cunning will not be able to detect or frustrate
them."

In a few moments the little ones were led in by their grandfather.  The boy was seven and the
girl was one year older.  They were both of them nervous and shy, and clung timidly to the
old man as if for protection.

They were very interesting-looking children.  The boy was a proud, brave-spirited little fellow,
as one could see by the poise of his head as he gazed at the strangers.  If anything could
be predicted from his looks, he would one day turn out to be a man of great power, for he had
in his youthful face all the signs which promise a life out of the common.  The girl was a
shy little thing, with her hair done up in a childlike fashion that well became her.  She was
a dainty little mortal.  Her eyes were almond-shaped, and with the coyness of her sex she kept
shooting out glances from the corners of them at the three men who were looking at her.  Her
cheeks were pale, with just a suspicion of colour painted into them by the deft hand of nature;
whilst her lips had been touched with the faintest dash of carmine, evidently just a moment
ago, before she left her mother's side.

"Now, my boy," said Chiau to the little fellow, "keep your eyes fixed on me, and never take
them from me for a moment; and you, little sister," addressing the girl, "do the same to the
man next to me, and you will see something that will make you both laugh."

The eyes of them both were at once riveted on the two men, and a look of amazement slowly crept
into their faces.  And no wonder, for as they gazed they saw the two men rapidly changing,
and becoming smaller and smaller, until they were the exact size and image of themselves. 
In their features and dress, and in every minute detail they were the precise pattern of the
children, who with staring eyes were held spellbound by the magic change which had taken place
in front of them.

"Now," said Chiau to the old gentleman, "the transformation is complete.  Take the children
away and hide them in the remotest and most inaccessible room that you have in your house.
Let them be seen by no chattering woman or servant who might divulge our secret, so that in
some way or other it might reach the ears of the Demon, and put him on his guard.  Remember
that from this moment these little ones are not supposed to exist, but that we are your grand-children
who are to be taken to the temple to-morrow morning at break of day."

Just as the eastern sky showed the first touch of colour, two sedan-chairs were brought up
to the door to carry the two victims away to be devoured by the Demon.  A few frightened-looking
neighbours peered through the gloom to catch a last glimpse of the children, but not one of
them had the least suspicion that the boy and girl were really fairies who were about to wage
a deadly battle with the Demon in order to deliver them from the curse under which they lived.

No sooner had the children been put into the temple, where a dim rush-light did but serve to
disclose the gloom, and the doors had been closed with a bang, than the chair-bearers rushed
away in fear for their very lives.

An instant afterwards a hideous, gigantic form emerged from an inner room and advanced towards
the children.  The Demon was surprised, however, to find that on this occasion the little victims
did not exhibit any signs of alarm, as had always been the case hitherto, but seemed to be
calmly awaiting his approach.  There was no symptom of fear about them, and not a cry of terror
broke from their lips; but with a fearless and composed mien they gazed upon him as he advanced.

Hesitating for a moment, as if to measure the foe which he began to fear might lie concealed
beneath the figures of the boy and girl before him, the Demon's great fiery eyes began to flash
with deadly passion as he saw the two little ones gradually expand in size, until they were
transformed into beings as powerful and as mighty as himself.  He knew at once that he had
been outwitted, and that he must now battle for his very life; so, drawing a sword which had
always stood him in good stead, he rushed upon the two who faced him so calmly and with such
apparent confidence in themselves.

Chiau and Chu were all ready for the fray, and with weapons firmly gripped and with hearts
made strong by the consciousness of the justice of their cause, they awaited the onslaught
of the Demon.

And what a battle it was that then ensued in the dim and shadowy temple!  It was a conflict
of great and deadly significance, waged on one side for the deliverance of helpless childhood,
and on the other for the basest schemes that the spirits of evil could devise.  It was a battle
royal, in which no quarter was either asked or given.  The clash of weapons, and sounds unfamiliar
to the human ear, and groans and cries which seemed to come from a lost soul, filled the temple
with their hideous uproar.

At last the Demon, who seemed to have been grievously wounded, though by his magic art he had
caused his wounds to be instantly healed, began to see that the day was going against him.
One more mighty lunge with his broadsword, and one more furious onset, and his craven heart
failed him.  With a cry of despair he fled from the temple, and plunged headlong into the river
flowing by its walls.

Great were the rejoicings when Chiau and Chu returned to report to Sam-Chung the glorious victory
they had gained over the Demon. Laughter and rejoicing were heard in every home, and men and
women assembled in front of their doors and at the corners of the narrow alley-ways to congratulate
each other on the great deliverance which that day had come to them and to their children.
The dread of the Demon had already vanished, and a feeling of freedom so inspired the men of
the village that as if by a common impulse, they rushed impetuously down to where the temple
stood, and in the course of a few hours every vestige of it had disappeared beneath the waters
into which the Demon had plunged.

After his great defeat the baffled spirit made his way to the grotto beneath the waters, where
he and the other demons had taken up their abode.  A general council was called to devise plans
to wipe out the disgrace which had been sustained, and to regain the power that had slipped
from the Demon's grasp.  They wished also to visit Sam-Chung with condign punishment which
would render him helpless for the future.

"We must capture him," said one wicked-looking imp, who always acted as counsellor to the rest.
"I have been told that to devour some of his flesh would ensure the prolongation of life for
more than a thousand years."

The suggestion to seize Sam-Chung was unanimously accepted as a very inspiration of genius,
and the precise measures which were to be adopted in order to capture him were agreed to after
a long discussion.

On the very next morning, a most violent snowstorm set in, so that the face of the river and
the hills all round about, and the very heavens themselves were lost in the blinding snow-drifts
that flew before the gale.  Gradually the cold became so intense that the Ice King laid his
grip upon the waters of the Tien-ho, and turned the flowing stream into a crystal highway,
along which men might travel with ease and safety. Such a sight had never been seen before
by any of the people who lived upon its banks, and many were the speculations as to what such
a phenomenon might mean to the welfare of the people of the region.  It never occurred to any
one that this great snow-storm which had turned into ice a river that had never been known
to freeze before, was all the work of demons determined on the destruction of Sam-Chung.

Next day the storm had passed, but the river was one mass of ice which gleamed and glistened
in the morning rays.  Much to the astonishment of Sam-Chung and his two companions, they caught
sight of a number of people, who appeared to be merchants, moving about on the bank of the
river, together with several mules laden with merchandise.  The whole party seemed intent on
their preparations for crossing the river, which they were observed to test in various places
to make sure that it was strong enough to bear their weight.  This they seemed satisfied about,
for in a short time the men and animals set forward on their journey across the ice.

Sam-Chung immediately insisted upon following their example, though the plan was vigorously
opposed by the villagers, who predicted all kinds of dangers if he entered on such an uncertain
and hazardous enterprise. Being exceedingly anxious to proceed on his journey, however, and
seeing no prospect of doing so if he did not take advantage of the present remarkable condition
of the river, he hastened to follow in the footsteps of the merchants, who by this time had
already advanced some distance on the ice.

He would have been less anxious to enter on this perilous course, had he known that the innocent-looking
traders who preceded him were every one of them demons who had changed themselves into the
semblance of men in order to lure him to his destruction.

Sam-Chung and his companions had not proceeded more than five or six miles, when ominous symptoms
of coming disaster began to manifest themselves.  The extreme cold in the air suddenly ceased,
and a warm south wind began to blow.  The surface of the ice lost its hardness. Streamlets
of water trickled here and there, forming great pools which made walking exceedingly difficult.

Chiau, whose mind was a very acute and intelligent one, became terrified at these alarming
symptoms of danger, especially as the ice began to crack, and loud and prolonged reports reached
them from every direction.  Another most suspicious thing was the sudden disappearance of the
company of merchants, whom they had all along kept well in sight.  There was something wrong,
he was fully convinced, and so with all his wits about him, he kept himself alert for any contingency.
It was well that he did this, for before they had proceeded another mile, the ice began to
grow thinner, and before they could retreat there was a sudden crash and all three were precipitated
into the water.

Hardly had Chiau's feet touched the river, than with a superhuman effort he made a spring into
the air, and was soon flying with incredible speed in the direction of the Western Heaven,
to invoke the aid of the Goddess of Mercy to deliver Sam-Chung from the hands of an enemy who
would show him no quarter.

In the meanwhile Sam-Chung and Chu were borne swiftly by the demons, who were eagerly awaiting
their immersion in the water, to the great cave that lay deep down at the bottom of the mighty
river.  Chu, being an immortal and a special messenger of the Goddess, defied all the arts
of the evil spirits to injure him, so that all they could do was to imprison him in one of
the inner grottoes and station a guard over him to prevent his escape.  Sam-Chung, however,
was doomed to death, and the Demon, in revenge for the disgrace he had brought upon him, and
in the hope of prolonging his own life by a thousand years, decided that on the morrow he would
feast upon his flesh.  But he made his plans without taking into consideration the fact that
Sam-Chung was an especial favourite with the Goddess.

During the night a tremendous commotion occurred.  The waters of the river fled in every direction
as before the blast of a hurricane, and the caverns where the demons were assembled were illuminated
with a light so brilliant that their eyes became dazzled, and for a time were blinded by the
sudden blaze that flashed from every corner.  Screaming with terror, they fled in all directions.
Only one remained, and that was the fierce spirit who had wrought such sorrow amongst the people
of the land near by.  He too would have disappeared with the rest, had not some supernatural
power chained him to the spot where he stood.

Soon the noble figure of the Goddess of Mercy appeared, accompanied by a splendid train of
Fairies who hovered round her to do her bidding. Her first act was to release Sam-Chung, who
lay bound ready for his death, which but for her interposition would have taken place within
a few hours.  He and his two companions were entrusted to the care of a chosen number of her
followers, and conveyed with all speed across the river.

The Goddess then gave a command to some who stood near her person, and in a moment, as if by
a flash of lightning, the cowering, terrified Demon had vanished, carried away to be confined
in one of the dungeons where persistent haters of mankind are kept imprisoned, until their
hearts are changed by some noble sentiment of compassion and the Goddess sees that they are
once more fit for liberty.

And then the lights died out, and the sounds of fairy voices ceased. The waters of the river,
which had been under a divine spell, returned to their course, and the Goddess with her magnificent
train of beneficent spirits departed to her kingdom in the far-off Western Heaven.

XI

THE REWARD OF A BENEVOLENT LIFE

On the banks of a river flowing through the prefecture of Tingchow, there stood a certain city
of about ten thousand inhabitants.  Among this mass of people there was a very fair sprinkling
of well-to-do men, and perhaps half-a-dozen or so who might have been accounted really wealthy.

Amongst these latter was one particular individual named Chung, who had acquired the reputation
of being exceedingly large-hearted and benevolently inclined to all those in distress.  Anyone
who was in want had but to appeal to Chung, and his immediate necessities would at once be
relieved without any tedious investigation into the merits of his case.  As may be inferred
from this, Chung was an easy-going, good-natured man, who was more inclined to look kindly
upon his fellow-men than to criticise them harshly for their follies or their crimes.  Such
a man has always been popular in this land of China.

Now the whole soul of Chung was centred upon his only son Keng.  At the time when our story
opens, this young fellow was growing up to manhood, and had proved himself to be possessed
of no mean ability, for on the various occasions on which he had sat for examination before
the Literary Chancellor, his papers had been of a very high order of merit.

The rumours of Chung's generosity had travelled further than he had ever dreamed of.  Several
reports of the noble deeds that he was constantly performing had reached the Immortals in the
Western Heaven, and as these are profoundly concerned in the doings of mankind, steps were
taken that Chung should not go unrewarded.

One day a fairy in the disguise of a bonze called upon him.  He had always had a sincere liking
for men of this class.  He admired their devotion, and he was moved by their self-sacrifice
in giving up home and kindred to spend their lives in the service of the gods and for the good
of humanity.

No sooner, therefore, had the priest entered within his doors, than he received him with the
greatest politeness and cordiality.  The same evening he prepared a great dinner, to which
a number of distinguished guests were invited, and a time of high festivity and rejoicing was
prolonged into the early hours of the morning.

Next day Chung said to his guest, "I presume you have come round collecting for your temple.
I need not assure you that I shall be most delighted to subscribe to anything that has to do
with the uplifting of my fellow-men.  My donation is ready whenever you wish to accept it."

The bonze, with a smile which lit up the whole of his countenance, replied that he had not
come for the purpose of collecting subscriptions.

"I have come," he said, "to warn you about a far more important matter which affects you and
your family.  Before very long a great flood will take place in this district, and will sweep
everything before it.  It will be so sudden that men will not be able to take measures to preserve
either their lives or their property--so instantaneous will be the rush of the mighty streams,
like ocean floods, from the mountains you can see in the West.  My advice to you is to commence
at once the construction of boats to carry you and your most precious effects away. When the
news first comes that the waters are rising, have them anchored in the creek that flows close
by your doors; and when the crisis arrives, delay not a moment, but hurry on board and fly
for your lives."

"But when will that be?" asked Chung anxiously.

"I may not tell you the precise day or hour," replied the bonze; "but when the eyes of the
stone lions in the East Street of the city shed tears of blood, betake yourselves with all
haste to the boats, and leave this doomed place behind you."

"But may I not tell the people of this approaching calamity?" asked Chung, whose tender heart
was deeply wrung with distress at the idea of so many being overwhelmed in the coming flood.

"You can please yourself about that," answered the priest, "but no one will believe you.  The
people of this region are depraved and wicked, and your belief in my words will only cause
them to laugh and jeer at you for your credulity."

"But shall I and my family escape with our lives?" finally enquired Chung.

"Yes, you will all escape," was the reply, "and in due time you will return to your home and
your future life will be prosperous.  But there is one thing," he continued, "about which I
must entreat you to be exceedingly careful.  As you are being carried down the stream by the
great flood, be sure to rescue every living thing that you meet in distress upon the waters.
You will not fail to be rewarded for so doing, as the creatures you save will repay you a thousandfold
for any services you may render them.  There is one thing more that I would solemnly warn you
against.  You will come across a man floating helplessly on the swiftly flowing tide.  Have
nothing to do with him. Leave him to his fate.  If you try to save him, you will only bring
sorrow upon your home."

As the priest was departing, Chung tried to press into his hand a considerable present of money,
but he refused to accept it.  He did not want money from him, he said.  The gods had heard
of his great love for men, and they had sent him to warn him so that he might escape the doom
which would overtake his fellow-citizens. More than half a cabinet post, men in separate post zebras, came to Once the capital of the
Kingdom with offices for as many cuts, inviting all the princes to come and claim the hand of the Princess,
which had to choose among them he likes.

The fame of his wonderful beauty had gone and the whole world, so that, just mails were arriving
at different cuts, there was no prince, and for little ruin it was, decided not to go to the
capital of King Ventures, to compete on fair, tournaments and exercises of genius by the hand of
the princess. Each asked his father King arms horses, his blessing and some money, which in
front of a brilliant retinue, the put on the road.

Was to see how they arrived at the court of the Princess all these high lords. Were see soirees
that were then in the royal palaces. They were admired, finally, enigmas that the princes
were proposed to show the respective acuity, the verses they wrote; giving the serenades, the fighting
arc, boxing and wrestling, and racing carts and horses, which sought to come out on top each
other and gain Love alleged girlfriend.

But this, that despite his modesty and discretion, was endowed, could not help, of a surly nature,
fastidious and loveless, princes overwhelmed with contempt and none of them cared a jot. Its
coldness seemed discretions, nonsense its enigmas, its performance arrogance and vanity or greed
of wealth you love showed. Scarcely deigned to look chivalrous exercises, or hear their serenades,
or smile grateful for his love poems. The magnificent gift, which each had brought from land, were
cornered in a housetop of the royal palace.

The indifference of Princess ice age for all claimants. Only one, the son the Khan of Tartary,
had managed to escape from their indifference to incur their hate. This Prince suffered from
a sublime ugliness. His eyes were slanted, cheeks and chin outgoing tangled curly hair, chubby little
body, even of titanic strength, and restless genius, mocker and proud. Not the most innocuous
were free of teasing, being the main target of including the Minister of Foreign Affairs of King
Ventures in severity, limited intelligence and dignity, as well as obnoxiously who spoke Sanskrit,
diplomatic language then lend something to ridicule and jokes.

So things were going, and the court celebrations were brighter every day. Princes, however, despaired
of not being loved, the Fortunate King raging when her daughter had not decided, and it continued
erre que erre in ignoring anyone, except Tartar Prince, who taunts and declared their abhorrence
of revenge with interest the famous minister of his father.

II

Now it happened that the Princess, on a beautiful spring morning,
was on her dresser.

The favorite girl combing her golden hair long and sweetest.


Further on they passed a large branch of a tree, on which there was a crow's nest, with one
young one in it.  This, also, remembering the solemn injunction of the priest, they carefully
took up and saved.

As they were rushing madly on down the tawny, swollen river, they were all struck with sudden
excitement by seeing something struggling in the boiling waters.  Looking at this object more
attentively as they drew nearer to it, they perceived that it was a man, who seemed to be in
great peril of his life.

Chung's tender heart was filled with sympathy, and he at once gave orders for the boatmen to
go and rescue him.  His wife, however, reminded him of the warning of the priest not to save
any man on the river, as he would inevitably turn out to be an enemy, who would in time work
his rescuer great wrong.

Chung replied that at such a time, when a human being was in extreme danger of being drowned,
personal interests ought not to be considered at all.  He had faithfully obeyed the command
of the priest in saving animal life, but how much more valuable was a man than any of the lower
orders of creation?  "Whatever may happen," he said, "I cannot let this man drown before my
eyes," and as the boat just then came alongside the swimmer, he was hauled into it and delivered
from his peril.

After a few days, when the storm had abated and the river had gone down to its natural flow,
Chung returned with his family to his home.  To his immense surprise, he found that his house
had not been damaged in the least.  The gods who had saved his life had used their supernatural
powers to preserve even his property from the ruin and devastation that had fallen upon the
inhabitants of the city and of the surrounding plain.

Shortly after they had settled down again, Chung enquired of Lo-yung, the man whom he had saved
from the flood, whether he would not like to return to his family and his home.

"I have no family left," he answered with a sad look on his face.  "All the members of it were
drowned in the great flood from which you delivered me.  What little property we had was washed
away by the wild rush of the streams that overflowed our farm.  Let me stay with you," he begged,
"and give me the opportunity, by the devoted service of my life, to repay you in some slight
degree for what you have done in saving my life."

As he uttered these words his tears began to flow, and his features showed every sign of profound
emotion.  Always full of tenderness and compassion, Chung was profoundly moved by the tears
and sobs of Lo-yung, and hastened to assure him that he need be under no concern with regard
to his future.  "You have lost all your relatives, it is true, but from to-day I shall recognize
you as my son.  I adopt you into my family and I give you my name."

Six months after this important matter had been settled, the city was placarded with proclamations
from its Chief Mandarin.  In these he informed the people that he had received a most urgent
Edict from the Emperor stating that an official seal, which was in constant use in high transactions
of the State, had in a most mysterious manner disappeared and could not be found.  He was therefore
directed to inform the people that whoever informed His Majesty where the seal was, so that
it could be recovered, would receive a considerable reward and would also be made a high mandarin
in the palace of the Emperor.

That very night, whilst Chung was sleeping, a fairy appeared to him in a dream.  "The gods
have sent me," he said, "to give you one more proof of the high regard in which they hold you
for your devotion to your fellow-men.  The Emperor has lost a valuable seal which he is most
anxious to recover, and he has promised large and liberal rewards to the man who shows him
where it may be found.  I want to tell you where the seal is.  It lies at the bottom of the
crystal well in the grounds behind the palace.   It was accidentally dropped in there by the
Empress-Dowager, who has forgotten all about the circumstance, but who will recollect it the
moment she is reminded of it.  I want you to send your own son to the capital to claim the
reward by telling where the seal is."

When Chung awoke in the morning, he told his wife the wonderful news of what had happened to
him during the night, and began to make preparations for his son to start for the capital without
delay, in order to secure the honours promised by the Emperor.  His wife, however, was by no
means reconciled to the idea of parting with her son, and strongly opposed his going.

"Why are you so set upon the honours of this life that you are willing to be separated from
your only child, whom perhaps you may never be able to see again?" she asked her husband, with
tears in her eyes. "You are a rich man, you are beloved of the gods, you have everything that
money can buy in this flowery kingdom.  Why not then be contented and cease to long after the
dignities which the State can confer, but which can never give you any real happiness?"

Just at that moment Lo-yung came in, and hearing the wonderful story, and seeing the distress
of the mother, he volunteered to take the place of her son and go to the capital in his stead.

"I have never yet had the chance," he said, "of showing my gratitude to my benefactor for having
saved my life, and for the many favours he has showered upon me.  I shall be glad to undertake
this journey.   I shall have an audience with His Majesty and will reveal to him the place
where the seal lies hidden, and I shall then insist that all the honours he may be prepared
to bestow on me shall be transferred to your son, to whom of right they naturally belong."

It was accordingly arranged that Lo-yung should take the place of Chung's son, and preparations
were at once made for his journey to the capital.  As he was saying good-bye to his benefactor,
the latter whispered in his ear: "If you succeed in your enterprise and the Emperor makes you
one of his royal officers, do not let ingratitude ever enter your heart, so that you may be
tempted to forget us here, who will be thinking about you all the time you are away."

"Nothing of the kind can ever happen," exclaimed Lo-yung impetuously. "My gratitude to you
is too firmly embedded within my heart ever to be uprooted from it."

On his arrival at the capital, he at once sought an interview with the Prime Minister, who,
on hearing that a man wished to see him about a state matter of urgent importance, immediately
admitted him to his presence.  Lo-yung at once explained that he had come to reveal the place
where the lost seal at that moment lay concealed.   "I am perfectly ready to tell all I know
about it," he said, "but if possible I should prefer to make it known to the Emperor himself
in person."

"That can quickly be arranged," eagerly replied the Prime Minister, "for His Majesty is so
anxious to obtain information about the seal, that he is prepared at any hour of the day or
night to give an audience to anyone who can ease his mind on the subject."

In a few minutes a eunuch from the palace commanded the Prime Minister to come without delay
to the Audience Hall and wait upon the Emperor. He was also to bring with him the person who
said that he had an important communication to lay before the Throne.

When they arrived they found there not only the King, but also the Empress-Dowager, waiting
to receive them.  In obedience to a hasty command, Lo-yung told in a few words where the seal
was, and how it happened to be there.  As he went on with the story the face of the Empress
lit up with wonder, whilst a pleasing smile overspread it, as she recognized the truth of what
Lo-yung was saying.

"But tell me," said the Emperor, "how you get all your information and how it is that you have
such an intimate acquaintance with what is going on in my palace?"

Lo-yung then described how the Immortals in the Western Heaven, deeply moved by the loving
character of Chung, and wishing to reward him and bring honour to his family, had sent a fairy,
who appeared to him in a dream and told him the secret of the seal.

"Your home," said the Emperor, "must indeed be celebrated for benevolent and loving deeds to
men, since even the fairies come down from the far-off Heaven to express their approbation.
In accordance with my royal promise, I now appoint you to a high official position that will
enrich you for life, for I consider that it will be for the welfare of my kingdom to have a
man from a home, which the gods delight to honour, to assist me in the management of my public
affairs."

From the moment when the royal favour was bestowed on Lo-yung, it seemed as though every particle
of gratitude and every kindly remembrance of Chung had vanished completely out of his heart.
He cut himself off from the home he had left only a few days ago, as completely as though it
had never existed.

Weeks and months went by, but no news came from him, and the heart of Chung was wrung with
anguish, for he knew that Lo-yung's unnatural conduct would in the end bring retribution upon
Lo-yung himself.

At last he determined to send his son, Keng, to the capital to find out what had really become
of Lo-yung.  Attended by one of his household servants, the young man reached his journey's
end in a few days.  On enquiring at his inn about Lo-yung, he was informed that he was a mandarin
of great distinction in the city, and was under the special protection of the Emperor, whose
favourite he was.

Hearing this joyful news, Keng, followed by his servant, at once hastened to the residence
of Lo-yung, and was lucky enough to meet him as he rode out on horseback from his magnificent
yamen, attended by a long retinue of officers and attendants.

Running up to the side of his horse, Keng cried out joyfully, "Ah! my brother, what a joy to
meet you once more!  How glad I am to see you!"

To his astonishment, Lo-yung, with a frown upon his face, angrily exclaimed; "You common fellow,
what do you mean by calling me your brother?  I have no brother.  You are an impostor, and
you must be severely punished for daring to claim kinship with me."

Calling some of the lictors in his train, he ordered them to beat Keng, and then cast him into
prison, and to give strict injunctions to the jailer to treat him as a dangerous criminal.
Wounded and bleeding from the severe scourging he had received, and in a terrible state of
exhaustion, poor Keng was dragged to the prison, where he was thrown into the deepest dungeon,
and left to recover as best he might from the shock he had sustained.

His condition was indeed a pitiable one.  Those who could have helped and comforted him were
far away.  He could expect no alleviation of his sorrows from the jailer, for the heart of
the latter had naturally become hardened by having to deal with the criminal classes. It consisted of a small room divided by a screen for form
a bedroom whose door was precisely toward the street, and one on the right narrow exit to
the yard and not longer than the back of the house. To the left of the entry and the height
of a rod, had a hole in the dividing wall, as a niche, whose background was a whole body pain
Mother, although very small, with a sword of fire across his chest from side to side. Lit day
and night so strange Painting two butterflies, that is, two burners with its corresponding
wick, floating in three parts of water and oil, regular glasses into glass. A garland of all artificial
flowers and pieces of gold and silver cardboard, soiled, faded and dusty adorned the altar.
And all around, the walls, on the screen and behind the doors and windows large number of signs, for
example Holy Mother! The Grace of God be in this house! Viva Jesus! Viva Maria! Viva Grace and Sin
dies! With many of the sort, that I must not repeat them. The prints, no box, glued to the walls
with wafers or paste, were more numerous than the signs, all saints, printed by the printer
Bologna [6] on plain paper and collected at the hands of the applicants of the monasteries
in return for alms or purchased at the door of the churches in the holidays.

Very little down to the furniture, but in his littleness and debris
that had been known better times when new.

The more palatable of the house was a seat of Campeche, and lame, with big ears and rickety.
Agregábanse three or four chairs with seat and cedar cowhide back in the same style, strong, solid
and ancient. Matched with them a corner of the wood itself, whose feet were carved in the
form of hoof satyr molded and vine leaves.
  One of them flew on to the ledge outside, and Keng immediately
recognized it as the one which had been saved from the floating branch in the turbid river.
He was overjoyed to see this bird, and besought the jailer to allow him to write a letter to
his father, telling him of his pitiful condition. 

In the meantime the girl, following in the street below came to the square of Santa Catalina, whose
embankment, which runs across the front, went up by leaps, and then fell to the street Avocado by
a concrete staircase.  When he arrived
there he made various attempts to obtain an interview with Lo-yung, but all in vain. The mandarin
had not sense enough to see that the threads of fate were slowly winding themselves around
him, and would soon entangle him to his destruction.

Very unwillingly, therefore, because he still loved Lo-yung and would have saved him if possible,
Chung entered an accusation against him before Fau-Kung, the famous criminal judge.

The result of the investigation was the condemnation of Lo-yung, whose execution speedily followed,
whilst Keng was promoted to the very position that had been occupied by the man who had tried
to work his ruin.

