THE GEOGRAPHY OF THE CRUSADE

     III.  EARLY CRUSADERS

     IV.   THE TURNING-POINT

     V.    THE VINDICATION OF LIBERTY

     VI.   THE SLAVERY ISSUE IN POLITICS

     VII.  THE PASSING OF THE WHIG PARTY

     VIII. THE UNDERGROUND RAILROAD

     IX.   BOOKS AS ANTI-SLAVERY WEAPONS

     X.   "BLEEDING KANSAS"

     XI.   CHARLES SUMNER

     XII.  KANSAS AND BUCHANAN

     XIII. THE SUPREME COURT IN POLITICS

     XIV.  JOHN BROWN

     BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

THE ANTI-SLAVERY CRUSADE

CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTION

The Emancipation Proclamation of President Lincoln marks the beginning of the end of a long
chapter in human history. Among the earliest forms of private property was the ownership of
slaves. Slavery as an institution had persisted throughout the ages, always under protest,
always provoking opposition, insurrection, social and civil war, and ever bearing within itself
the seeds of its own destruction. Among the historic powers of the world the United States
was the last to uphold slavery, and when, a few years after Lincoln's proclamation, Brazil
emancipated her slaves, property in man as a legally recognized institution came to an end
in all civilized countries.

Emancipation in the United States marked the conclusion of a century of continuous debate,
in which the entire history of western civilization was traversed. The literature of American
slavery is, indeed, a summary of the literature of the world on the subject. The Bible was
made a standard text-book both for and against slavery. Hebrew and Christian experiences were
exploited in the interest of the contending parties in this crucial controversy. Churches of
the same name and order were divided among themselves and became half pro-slavery and half
anti-slavery.

Greek experience and Greek literature were likewise drawn into the controversy. The Greeks
themselves had set the example of arguing both for and against slavery. Their practice and
their prevailing teaching, however, gave support to this institution. They clearly enunciated
the doctrine that there is a natural division among human beings; that some are born to command
and others to obey; that it is natural to some men to be masters and to others to be slaves;
that each of these classes should fulfill the destiny which nature assigns. The Greeks also
recognized a difference between races and held that some were by nature fitted to serve as
slaves, and others to command as masters. The defenders of American slavery therefore found
among the writings of the Greeks their chief arguments already stated in classic form.

Though the Romans added little to the theory of the fundamental problem involved, their history
proved rich in practical experience. There were times, in parts of the Roman Empire, when personal
slavery either did not exist or was limited and insignificant in extent. But the institution
grew with Roman wars and conquests. In rural districts, slave labor displaced free labor, and
in the cities servants multiplied with the concentration of wealth. The size and character
of the slave population eventually became a perpetual menace to the State. Insurrections proved
formidable, and every slave came to be looked upon as an enemy to the public. It is generally
conceded that the extension of slavery was a primary cause of the decline and fall of Rome.
In the American controversy, therefore, the lesson to be drawn from Roman experience was utilized
to support the cause of free labor.

After the Middle Ages, in which slavery under the modified form of feudalism ran its course,
there was a reversion to the ancient classical controversy. The issue became clearly defined
in the hands of the English and French philosophers of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.
In place of the time-honored doctrine that the masses of mankind are by nature subject to the
few who are born to rule, the contradictory dogma that all men are by nature free and equal
was clearly enunciated. According to this later view, it is of the very nature of spirit, or
personality, to be free. All men are endowed with personal qualities of will and choice and
a conscious sense of right and wrong. To subject these native faculties to an alien force is
to make war upon human nature. Slavery and despotism are, therefore, in their nature but a
species of warfare. They involve the forcing of men to act in violation of their true selves.
The older doctrine makes government a matter of force. The strong command the weak, or the
rich exercise lordship over the poor. The new doctrine makes of government an achievement of
adult citizens who agree among themselves as to what is fit and proper for the good of the
State and who freely observe the rules adopted and apply force only to the abnormal, the delinquent,
and the defective.

Between the upholders of these contradictory views of human nature there always has been and
there always must be perpetual warfare. Their difference is such as to admit of no compromise;
no middle ground is possible. The conflict is indeed irresistible. The chief interest in the
American crusade against slavery arises from its relation to this general world conflict between
liberty and despotism.

The Athenians could be democrats and at the same time could uphold and defend the institution
of slavery. They were committed to the doctrine that the masses of the people were slaves by
nature. By definition, they made slaves creatures void of will and personality, and they conveniently
ignored them in matters of state. The doctrine of equality had been developed in Europe without
special reference to questions of distinct race or color. But the terms, which are universal
and as broad as humanity in their denotation, came to be applied to black men as well as to
white men. Massachusetts embodied in her state constitution in 1780 the words, "All men are
born free and equal," and the courts ruled that these words in the state constitution had the
effect of liberating the slaves and of giving to them the same rights as other citizens. This
is a perfectly logical application of the doctrine of the Revolution.

The African slave-trade, however, developed earlier than the doctrine of the Declaration of
Independence. Negro slavery had long been an established institution in all the American colonies.
Opposition to the slave-trade and to slavery was an integral part of the evolution of the doctrine
of equal rights. As the colonists contended for their own freedom, they became anti-slavery
in sentiment. A standard complaint against British rule was the continued imposition of the
slave-trade upon the colonists against their oft-repeated protest.

Though this clause was omitted from the document as finally adopted, the evidence is abundant
that the language expressed the prevailing sentiment of the country. To the believer in liberty
and equality, slavery and the slave-trade are instances of war against human nature. No one
attempted to justify slavery or to reconcile it with the principles of free government. Slavery
was accepted as an inheritance for which others were to blame. Colonists at first blamed Great
Britain; later apologists for slavery blamed New England for her share in the continuance of
the slave-trade.

The fact should be clearly comprehended that the sentiments which led to the American Revolution,
and later to the French Revolution in Europe, were as broad in their application as the human
race itself--that there were no limitations nor exceptions. These new principles involved a
complete revolution in the previously recognized principles of government. The French sought
to make a master-stroke at immediate achievement and they incurred counterrevolutions and delays.
The Americans moved in a more moderate and tentative manner towards the great achievement,
but with them also a counter-revolution finally appeared in the rise of an influential class
who, by openly defending slavery, repudiated the principles upon which the government was founded.

At first the impression was general, in the South as well as in the North, that slavery was
a temporary institution. The cause of emancipation was already advocated by the Society of
Friends and some other sects. A majority of the States adopted measures for the gradual abolition
of slavery, but in other cases there proved to be industrial barriers to emancipation. Slaves
were found to be profitably employed in clearing away the forests; they were not profitably
employed in general agriculture. A marked exception was found in small districts in the Carolinas
and Georgia where indigo and rice were produced; and though cotton later became a profitable
crop for slave labor, it was the producers of rice and indigo who furnished the original barrier
to the immediate extension of the policy of emancipation. Representatives from their States
secured the introduction of a clause into the Constitution which delayed for twenty years the
execution of the will of the country against the African slave-trade. It is said that a slave
imported from Africa paid for himself in a single year in the production of rice. There were
thus a few planters in Georgia and the Carolinas who had an obvious interest in the prolongation
of the institution of slavery and who had influence enough, to secure constitutional recognition
for both slavery and the slave-trade.

The principles involved were not seriously debated. In theory all were abolitionists; in practice
slavery extended to all the States. In some, actual abolition was comparatively easy; in others,
it was difficult. By the end of the first quarter of the nineteenth century, actual abolition
had extended to the line separating Pennsylvania from Maryland. Of the original thirteen States
seven became free and six remained slave.

The absence of ardent or prolonged debate upon this issue in the early history of the United
States is easily accounted for. No principle of importance was drawn into the controversy;
few presumed to defend slavery as a just or righteous institution. As to conduct, each individual,
each neighborhood enjoyed the freedom of a large, roomy country. Even within state lines there
was liberty enough. No keen sense of responsibility for a uniform state policy existed. It
was therefore not difficult for those who were growing wealthy by the use of imported negroes
to maintain their privileges in the State.

If the sense of active responsibility was wanting within the separate States, much more was
this true of the citizens of different States. Slavery was regarded as strictly a domestic
institution. Families bought and owned slaves as a matter of individual preference. None of
the original colonies or States adopted slavery by law. The citizens of the various colonies
became slaveholders simply because there was no law against it. * The abolition of slavery
was at first an individual matter or a church or a state policy. When the Constitution was
formulated, the separate States had been accustomed to regard themselves as possessed of sovereign
powers; hence there was no occasion for the citizens of one State to have a sense of responsibility
on account of the domestic institutions of other States. The consciousness of national responsibility
was of slow growth, and the conditions did not then exist which favored a general crusade against
slavery or a prolonged acrimonious debate on the subject, such as arose forty years later.

     * In the case of Georgia there was a prohibitory law, which
     was disregarded.

In many of the States, however, there were organized abolition societies, whose object was
to promote the cause of emancipation already in progress and to protect the rights of free
negroes. The Friends, or Quakers, were especially active in the promotion of a propaganda for
universal emancipation. *

     * William Goodell, "Slavery and Anti-Slavery," p. 99.

The memorialists were treated with profound respect. Cordial support and encouragement came
from representatives from Virginia and other slave States. Opposition was expressed by members
from South Carolina and Georgia. These for the most part relied upon their constitutional guaranties.
But for these guaranties, said Smith, of South Carolina, his State would not have entered the
Union. In the extreme utterances in opposition to the petition there is a suggestion of the
revolution which was to occur forty years later.

Active abolitionists who gave time and money to the promotion of the cause were always few
in numbers. Previous to 1830 abolition societies resembled associations for the prevention
of cruelty to animals--in fact, in one instance at least this was made one of the professed
objects. These societies labored to induce men to act in harmony with generally acknowledged
obligations, and they had no occasion for violence or persecution. Abolitionists were distinguished
for their benevolence and their unselfish devotion to the interests of the needy and the unfortunate.
It was only when the ruling classes resorted to mob violence and began to defend slavery as
a divinely ordained institution that there was a radical change in the spirit of the controversy.
The irrepressible conflict between liberty and despotism which has persisted in all ages became
manifest when slave-masters substituted the Greek doctrine of inequality and slavery for the
previously accepted Christian doctrine of equality and universal brotherhood.

CHAPTER II. THE GEOGRAPHY OF THE CRUSADE

It was a mere accident that the line drawn by Mason and Dixon between Pennsylvania and Maryland
became known in later years as the dividing line between slavery and freedom. The six States
south of that line ultimately neglected or refused to abolish slavery, while the seven Northern
States became free. Vermont became a State in 1791 and Kentucky in 1792. The third State to
be added to the original thirteen was Tennessee in 1796. At that time, counting the States
as they were finally classified, eight were destined to be slave and eight free. Ohio entered
the Union as a State in 1802, thus giving to the free States a majority of one. The balance,
however, was restored in 1812 by the admission of Louisiana as a slave State. The admission
of Indiana in 1816 on the one side and of Mississippi in 1817 on the other still maintained
the balance: ten free States stood against ten slave States. During the next two years Illinois
and Alabama were admitted, making twenty-two States in all, still evenly divided.

The ordinance for the government of the territory north of the Ohio River, passed in 1787 and
reenacted by Congress after the adoption of the Constitution, proved to be an act of great
significance in its relation to the limitation of slavery. By this ordinance slavery was forever
prohibited in the Northwest Territory. In the territory south of the Ohio River slavery became
permanently established. The river, therefore, became an extension of the original Mason and
Dixon's Line with the new meaning attached: it became a division between free and slave territory.

It was apparently at first a mere matter of chance that a balance was struck between the two
losses of States. While Virginia remained a slave State, it was natural that slavery should
extend into Kentucky, which had been a part of Virginia. Likewise Tennessee, being a part of
North Carolina, became slave territory. When these two Territories became slave States, the
equal division began. There was yet an abundance of territory both north and south to be taken
into the Union and, without any special plan or agitation, States were admitted in pairs, one
free and the other slave. In the meantime there was distinctly developed the idea of the possible
or probable permanence of slavery in the South and of a rivalry or even a future conflict between
the two sections.

When in 1819 Missouri applied for admission to the Union with a state constitution permitting
slavery, there was a prolonged debate over the whole question, not only in Congress but throughout
the entire country. North and South were distinctly pitted against each other with rival systems
of labor. The following year Congress passed a law providing for the admission of Missouri,
but, to restore the balance, Maine was separated from Massachusetts and was admitted to the
Union as a State. It was further enacted that slavery should be forever prohibited from all
territory of the United States north of the parallel 36 degrees 30', that is, north of the
southern boundary of Missouri. It is this part of the act which is known as the Missouri Compromise.
It was accepted as a permanent limitation of the institution of slavery. By this act Mason
and Dixon's Line was extended through the Louisiana Purchase. As the western boundary was then
defined, slavery could still be extended into Arkansas and into a part of what is now Oklahoma,
while a great empire to the northwest was reserved for the formation of free States. Arkansas
became a slave State in 1836 and Michigan was admitted as a free State in the following year.

With the admission of Arkansas and Michigan, thirteen slave States were balanced by a like
number of free States. The South still had Florida, which would in time become a slave State.
Against this single Territory there was an immense region to the northwest, equal in area to
all the slave States combined, which, according to the Ordinance of 1787 and the Missouri Compromise,
had been consecrated to freedom. Foreseeing this condition, a few Southern planters began a
movement for the extension of territory to the south and west immediately after the adoption
of the Missouri Compromise. When Arkansas was admitted in 1836, there was a prospect of the
immediate annexation of Texas as a slave State. This did not take place until nine years later,
but the propaganda, the object of which was the extension of slave territory, could not be
maintained by those Who contended that slavery was a curse to the country. Virginia, therefore,
and other border slave States, as they became committed to the policy of expansion, ceased
to tolerate official public utterances against slavery.

Three more or less clearly defined sections appear in the later development of the crusade.
These are the New England States, the Middle States, and the States south of North Carolina
and Tennessee. In New England, few negroes were ever held as slaves, and the institution disappeared
during the first years of the Republic. The inhabitants had little experience arising from
actual contact with slavery. When slavery disappeared from New England and before there had
been developed in the country at large a national feeling of responsibility for its continued
existence, interest in the subject declined. For twenty years previous to the founding of Garrison's
Liberator in 1831, organized abolition movements had been almost unknown in New England. In
various ways the people were isolated, separated from contact with slavery. Their knowledge
of this subject of discussion was academic, theoretical, acquired at second-hand.

In New York and New Jersey slaves were much more numerous than in New England. There were still
slaves in considerable numbers until about 1825. The people had a knowledge of the institution
from experience and observation, and there was no break in the continuity of their organized
abolition societies. Chief among the objects of these societies was the effort to prevent kidnapping
and to guard the rights of free negroes. For both of these purposes there was a continuous
call for activity. Pennsylvania also had freedmen of her own whose rights called for guardianship,
as well as many freedmen from farther south who had come into the State.

The movement of protest and protection did not stop at Mason and Dixon's Line, but extended
far into the South. In both North Carolina and Tennessee an active protest against slavery
was at all times maintained. In this great middle section of the country, between New England
and South Carolina, there was no cessation in the conflict between free and slave labor. Some
of these States became free while others remained slave; but between the people of the two
sections there was continuous communication. Slaveholders came into free States to liberate
their slaves. Non-slaveholders came to get rid of the competition of slave labor, and free
negroes came to avoid reenslavement. Slaves fled thither on their way to liberty. It was not
a matter of choice; it was an unavoidable condition which compelled the people of the border
States to give continuous attention to the institution of slavery.

The modern anti-slavery movement had its origin in this great middle section, and from the
same source it derived its chief support. The great body of active abolitionists were from
the slave States or else derived their inspiration from personal contact with slavery. As compared
with New England abolitionists, the middlestate folk were less extreme in their views. They
had a keener appreciation of the difficulties involved in emancipation. They were more tolerant
towards the idea of letting the country at large share the burdens involved in the liberation
of the slaves. Border-state abolitionists naturally favored the policy of gradual emancipation
which had been followed in New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania. Abolitionists who continued
to reside in the slave States were forced to recognize the fact that emancipation involved
serious questions of race adjustment. From the border States came the colonization society,
a characteristic institution, as well as compromise of every variety.

The southernmost section, including South Carolina, Georgia, and the Gulf States, was even
more sharply defined in the attitude it assumed toward the anti-slavery movement. At no time
did the cause of emancipation become formidable in this section. In all these States there
was, of course, a large class of non-slaveholding whites, who were opposed to slavery and who
realized that they were victims of an injurious system; but they had no effective organ for
expression. The ruling minority gained an early and an easy victory and to the end held a firm
hand. To the inhabitants of this section it appeared to be a self-evident truth that the white
race was born to rule and the black race was born to serve. Where negroes outnumbered the whites
fourfold, the mere suggestion of emancipation raised a race question which seemed appalling
in its proportions. Either in the Union or out of the Union, the rulers were determined to
perpetuate slavery.

Slavery as an economic institution became dependent upon a few semitropical plantation crops.
When the Constitution was framed, rice and indigo, produced in South Carolina and Georgia,
were the two most important. Indigo declined in relative importance, and the production of
sugar was developed, especially after the annexation of the Louisiana Purchase. But by far
the most important crop for its effects upon slavery and upon the entire country was cotton.
This single product finally absorbed the labor of half the slaves of the entire country. Mr.
Rhodes is not at all unreasonable in his surmise that, had it not been for the unforeseen development
of the cotton industry, the expectation of the founders of the Republic that slavery would
soon disappear would actually have been realized.

It was more difficult to carry out a policy of emancipation when slaves were quoted in the
market at a thousand dollars than when the price was a few hundred dollars. All slave-owners
felt richer; emancipation appeared to involve a greater sacrifice. Thus the cotton industry
went far towards accounting for the changed attitude of the entire country on the subject of
slavery. The North as well as the South became financially interested.

It was not generally perceived before it actually happened that the border States would take
the place of Africa in furnishing the required supply of laborers for Southern plantations.
The interstate slave-trade gave to the system a solidarity of interest which was new. All slave-owners
became partakers of a common responsibility for the system as a whole. It was the newly developed
trade quite as much as the system of slavery itself which furnished the ground for the later
anti-slavery appeal. The consciousness of a common guilt for the sin of slavery grew with the
increase of actual interstate relations.

The abolition of the African slave-trade was an act of the general Government. Congress passed
the prohibitory statute in 1807, to go into effect January, 1808. At no time, however, was
the prohibition entirely effective, and a limited illegal trade continued until slavery was
eventually abolished. This inefficiency of restraint furnished another point of attack for
the abolitionists. Through efforts to suppress the African slave-trade, the entire country
became conscious of a common responsibility. Before the Revolutionary War, Great Britain had
been censured for forcing cheap slaves from Africa upon her unwilling colonies. After the Revolution,
New England was blamed for the activity of her citizens in this nefarious trade both before
and after it was made illegal. All of this tended to increase the sense of responsibility in
every section of the country. Congress had made the foreign slave-trade illegal; and citizens
in all sections gradually became aware of the possibility that Congress might likewise restrict
or forbid interstate commerce in slaves.

The West Indies and Mexico were also closely associated with the United States in the matter
of slavery. When Jamestown was founded, negro slavery was already an old institution in the
islands of the Caribbean Sea, and thence came the first slaves to Virginia. The abolition of
slavery in the island of Hayti, or San Domingo, was accomplished during the French Revolution
and the Napoleonic Wars. As incidental to the process of emancipation, the Caucasian inhabitants
were massacred or banished, and a republican government was established, composed exclusively
of negroes and mulattoes. From the date of the Missouri Compromise to that of the Mexican War,
this island was united under a single republic, though it was afterwards divided into the two
republics of Hayti and San Domingo.

The "horrors of San Domingo" were never absent from the minds of those in the United States
who lived in communities composed chiefly of slaves. What had happened on the island was accepted
by Southern planters as proof that the two races could live together in peace only under the
relation of master and slave, and that emancipation boded the extermination of one race or
the other. Abolitionists, however, interpreted the facts differently: they emphasized the tyranny
of the white rulers as a primary cause of the massacres; they endowed some of the negro leaders
with the highest qualities of statesmanship and self-sacrificing generosity; and Wendell Phillips,
in an impassioned address which he delivered in 1861, placed on the honor roll above the chief
worthies of history--including Cromwell and Washington Toussaint L'Ouverture, the liberator
of Hayti, whom France had betrayed and murdered.

Abolitionists found support for their position in the contention that other communities had
abolished slavery without such accompanying horrors as occurred in Hayti and without serious
race conflict. Slavery had run its course in Spanish America, and emancipation accompanied
or followed the formation of independent republics. In 1833 all slaves in the British Empire
were liberated, including those in the important island of Jamaica. So it happened that, just
at the time when Southern leaders were making up their minds to defend their peculiar institution
at all hazards, they were beset on every side by the spirit of emancipation. Abolitionists,
on the other hand, were fully convinced that the attainment of some form of emancipation in
the United States was certain, and that, either peaceably or through violence, the slaves would
ultimately be liberated.

CHAPTER III. EARLY CRUSADERS

At the time when the new cotton industry was enhancing the value of slave labor, there arose
from the ranks of the people those who freely consecrated their all to the freeing of the slave.
Among these, Benjamin Lundy, a New Jersey Quaker, holds a significant place.

Though the Society of Friends fills a large place in the anti-slavery movement, its contribution
to the growth of the conception of equality is even more significant. This impetus to the idea
arises from a fundamental Quaker doctrine, announced at the middle of the seventeenth century,
to the erect that God reveals Himself to mankind, not through any priesthood or specially chosen
agents; not through any ordinance, form, or ceremony; not through any church or institution;
not through any book or written record of any sort; but directly, through His Spirit, to each
person. This direct enlightening agency they deemed coextensive with humanity; no race and
no individual is left without the ever-present illuminating Spirit. If men of old spoke as
they were moved by the Holy Spirit, what they spoke or wrote can furnish no reliable guidance
to the men of a later generation, except as their minds also are enlightened by the same Spirit
in the same way. "The letter killeth; it is the Spirit that giveth life."

This doctrine in its purity and simplicity places all men and all races on an equality; all
are alike ignorant and imperfect; all are alike in their need of the more perfect revelation
yet to be made. Master and slave are equal before God; there can be no such relation, therefore,
except by doing violence to a personality, to a spiritual being. In harmony with this fundamental
principle, the Society of Friends early rid itself of all connection with slavery. The Friends'
Meeting became a refuge for those who were moved by the Spirit to testify against slavery.

Born in 1789 in a State which was then undergoing the process of emancipating its slaves, Benjamin
Lundy moved at the age of nineteen to Wheeling, West Virginia, which had already become the
center of an active domestic slave-trade. The pious young Quaker, now apprenticed to a saddler,
was brought into personal contact with this traffic in human flesh. He felt keenly the national
disgrace of the iniquity. So deep did the iron enter into his soul that never again did he
find peace of mind except in efforts to relieve the oppressed. Like hundreds and thousands
of others, Lundy was led on to active opposition to the trade by an actual knowledge of the
inhumanity of the business as prosecuted before his eyes and by his sympathy for human suffering.

His apprenticeship ended, Lundy was soon established in a prosperous business in an Ohio village
not far from Wheeling. Though he now lived in a free State, the call of the oppressed was ever
in his ears and he could not rest. He drew together a few of his neighbors, and together they
organized the Union Humane Society, whose object was the relief of those held in bondage. In
a few months the society numbered several hundred members, and Lundy issued an address to the
philanthropists of the whole country, urging them to unite in like manner with uniform constitutions,
and suggesting that societies so formed adopt a policy of correspondence and cooperation. At
about the same time, Lundy began to publish anti-slavery articles in the Mount Pleasant Philanthropist
and other papers.

In 1819 he went on a business errand to St. Louis, Missouri, where he found himself in the
midst of an agitation over the question of the extension of slavery in the States. With great
zest he threw himself into the discussion, making use of the newspapers in Missouri and Illinois.
Having lost his property, he returned poverty-stricken to Ohio, where he founded in January,
1821, the Genius of Universal Emancipation. A few months later he transferred his paper to
the more congenial atmosphere of Jonesborough, Tennessee, but in 1824 he went to Baltimore,
Maryland. In the meantime, Lundy had become much occupied in traveling, lecturing, and organizing
societies for the promotion of the cause of abolition. He states that during the ten years
previous to 1830 he had traveled upwards of twenty-five thousand miles, five thousand of which
were on foot. He now became interested in plans for colonizing negroes in other countries as
an aid to emancipation, though he himself had no confidence in the colonization society and
its scheme of deportation to Africa. After leading a few negroes to Hayti in 1829, he visited
Canada, Texas, and Mexico with a similar plan in view.

During a trip through the Middle States and New England in 1828, Lundy met William Lloyd Garrison,
and the following year he walked all the way from Baltimore to Bennington, Vermont, for the
express purpose of securing the assistance of the youthful reformer as coeditor of his paper.
Garrison had previously favored colonization, but within the few weeks which elapsed before
he joined Lundy, he repudiated all forms of colonization and advocated immediate and unconditional
emancipation. He at once told Lundy of his change of views. "Well," said Lundy, "thee may put
thy initials to thy articles, and I will put my witness to mine, and each will bear his own
burden." The two editors were, however, in complete accord in their opposition to the slave-trade.
Lundy had suffered a dangerous assault at the hands of a Baltimore slave-trader before he was
joined by Garrison. During the year 1830, Garrison was convicted of libel and thrown into prison
on account of his scathing denunciation of Francis Todd of Massachusetts, the owner of a vessel
engaged in the slave-trade.

These events brought to a crisis the publication of the Genius of Universal Emancipation. The
editors now parted company. Again Lundy moved the office of the paper, this time to Washington,
D.C., but it soon became a peripatetic monthly, printed wherever the editor chanced to be.
In 1836 Lundy began the issue of an anti-slavery paper in Philadelphia, called the National
Inquirer, and with this was merged the Genius of Universal Emancipation. He was preparing to
resume the issue of his original paper under the old title, in La Salle County, Illinois, when
he was overtaken by death on August 22, 1839.

Here was a man without education, without wealth, of a slight frame, not at all robust, who
had undertaken, singlehanded and without the shadow of a doubt of his ultimate success, to
abolish American slavery. He began the organization of societies which were to displace the
anti-slavery societies of the previous century. He established the first paper devoted exclusively
to the cause of emancipation. He foresaw that the question of emancipation must be carried
into politics and that it must become an object of concern to the general Government as well
as to the separate States. In the early part of his career he found the most congenial association
and the larger measure of effective support south of Mason and Dixon's Line, and in this section
were the greater number of the abolition societies which he organized. During the later years
of his life, as it was becoming increasingly difficult in the South to maintain a public anti-slavery
propaganda, he transferred his chief activities to the North. Lundy serves as a connecting
link between the earlier and the later anti-slavery movements. Eleven years of his early life
belong to the century of the Revolution. Garrison recorded his indebtedness to Lundy in the
words: "If I have in any way, however humble, done anything towards calling attention to slavery,
or bringing out the glorious prospect of a complete jubilee in our country at no distant day,
I feel that I owe everything in this matter, instrumentally under God, to Benjamin Lundy."

Different in type, yet even more significant on account of its peculiar relations to the cause
of abolition, was the life of James Gillespie Birney, who was born in a wealthy slaveholding
family at Dansville, Kentucky, in the year 1792. The Birneys were anti-slavery planters of
the type of Washington and Jefferson. The father had labored to make Kentucky a free State
at the time of its admission to the Union. His son was educated first at Princeton, where he
graduated in 1810, and then in the office of a distinguished lawyer in Philadelphia. He began
the practice of law at his home at the age of twenty-two. His home training and his residence
in States which were then in the process of gradual emancipation served to confirm him in the
traditional conviction of his family. While Benjamin Lundy, at the age of twenty-seven, was
engaged in organizing anti-slavery societies north of the Ohio River, Birney at the age of
twenty-four was influential as a member of the Kentucky Legislature in the prevention of the
passing of a joint resolution calling upon Ohio and Indiana to make laws providing for the
return of fugitive slaves. He was also conspicuous in his efforts to secure provisions for
gradual emancipation. Two years later he became a planter near Huntsville, Alabama. Though
not a member of the Constitutional Convention preparatory to the admission of this Territory
into the Union, Birney used his influence to secure provisions in the constitution favorable
to gradual emancipation. As a member of the first Legislature, in 1819, he was the author of
a law providing a fair trial by jury for slaves indicted for crimes above petty larceny, and
in 1826 he became a regular contributor to the American Colonization Society, believing it
to be an aid to emancipation. The following year he was able to induce the Legislature, although
he was not then a member of it, to pass an act forbidding the importation of slaves into Alabama
either for sale or for hire. This was regarded as a step preliminary to emancipation.

The cause of education in Alabama had in Birney a trusted leader. During the year 1830 he spent
several months in the North Atlantic States for the selection of a president and four professors
for the State University and three teachers for the Huntsville Female Seminary. These were
all employed upon his sole recommendation. On his return he had an important interview with
Henry Clay, of whose political party he had for several years been the acknowledged leader
in Alabama. He urged Clay to place himself at the head of the movement in Kentucky for gradual
emancipation. Upon Clay's refusal their political cooperation terminated. Birney never again
supported Clay for office and regarded him as in a large measure responsible for the pro-slavery
reaction in Kentucky.

Birney, who had now become discouraged regarding the prospect of emancipation, during the winter
of 1831 and 1832 decided to remove his family to Jacksonville, Illinois. He was deterred from
carrying out his plan, however, by his unexpected appointment as agent of the colonization
society in the Southwest--a mission which he undertook from a sense of duty.

In his travels throughout the region assigned to him, Birney became aware of the aggressive
designs of the planters of the Gulf States to secure new slave territories in the Southwest.
In view of these facts the methods of the colonization society appeared utterly futile. Birney
surrendered his commission and, in 1833, returned to Kentucky with the intention of doing himself
what Henry Clay had refused to do three years earlier, still hoping that Kentucky, Virginia,
and Tennessee might be induced to abolish slavery and thus place the slave power in a hopeless
minority. His disappointment was extreme at the pro-slavery reaction which had taken place
in Kentucky. The condition called for more drastic measures, and Birney decided to forsake
entirely the colonization society and cast in his lot with the abolitionists. He freed his
slaves in 1834, and in the following year he delivered the principal address at the annual
meeting of the American Anti-Slavery Society held in New York. His gift of leadership was at
once recognized. As vice-president of the society he began to travel on its behalf, to address
public assemblies, and especially to confer with members of state legislatures and to address
the legislative bodies. He now devoted his entire time to the service of the society, and as
early as September, 1835, issued the prospectus of a paper devoted to the cause of emancipation.
This called forth such a display of force against the movement that he could neither find a
printer nor obtain the use of a building in Dansville, Kentucky, for the publication. As a
result he transferred his activities to Cincinnati, where he began publication of the Philanthropist
in 1836. With the connivance of the authorities and encouragement from leading citizens of
Cincinnati, the office of the Philanthropist was three times looted by the mob, and the proprietor's
life was greatly endangered. The paper, however, rapidly grew in favor and influence and thoroughly
vindicated the right of free discussion of the slavery question. Another editor was installed
when Birney, who became secretary of the Anti-slavery Society in 1837, transferred his residence
to New York City.

Twenty-three years before Lincoln's famous utterance in which he proclaimed the doctrine that
a house divided against itself cannot stand, and before Seward's declaration of an irrepressible
conflict between slavery and freedom, Birney had said: "There will be no cessation of conflict
until slavery shall be exterminated or liberty destroyed. Liberty and slavery cannot live in
juxtaposition." He spoke out of the fullness of his own experience. A thoroughly trained lawyer
and statesman, well acquainted with the trend of public sentiment in both North and South,
he was fully persuaded that the new pro-slavery crusade against liberty boded civil war. He
knew that the white men in North and South would not, without a struggle, consent to be permanently
deprived of their liberties at the behest of a few Southern planters. Being himself of the
slaveholding class, he was peculiarly fitted to appreciate their position. To him the new issue
meant war, unless the belligerent leaders should be shown that war was hopeless. By his moderation
in speech, his candor in statement, his lack of rancor, his carefully considered, thoroughly
fair arguments, he had the rare faculty of convincing opponents of the correctness of his own view.

There could be little sympathy between Birney and William Lloyd Garrison, whose style of denunciation
appeared to the former as an incitement to war and an excuse for mob violence. As soon as Birney
became the accepted leader in the national society, there was friction between his followers
and those of Garrison. To denounce the Constitution and repudiate political action were, from
Birney's standpoint, a surrender of the only hope of forestalling a dire calamity. He had always
fought slavery by the use of legal and constitutional methods, and he continued so to fight.
In this policy he had the support of a large majority of abolitionists in New England and elsewhere.
Only a few personal friends accepted Garrison's injunction to forswear politics and repudiate
the Constitution.

The followers of Birney, failing to secure recognition for their views in either of the political
parties, organized the Liberty party and, while Birney was in Europe in 1840, nominated him
as their candidate for the Presidency. The vote which he received was a little over seven thousand,
but four years later he was again the candidate of the party and received over sixty thousand
votes. He suffered an injury during the following year which condemned him to hopeless invalidism
and brought his public career to an end.

Though Lundy and Birney were contemporaries and were engaged in the same great cause, they
were wholly independent in their work. Lundy addressed himself almost entirely to the non-slaveholding
class, while all of Birney's early efforts were "those of a slaveholder seeking to induce his
own class to support the policy of emancipation." Though a Northern man, Lundy found his chief
support in the South until he was driven out by persecution. Birney also resided in the South
until he was forced to leave for the same reason. The two men were in general accord in their
main lines of policy: both believed firmly in the use of political means to effect their objects;
both were at first colonizationists, though Lundy favored colonization in adjacent territory
rather than by deportation to Africa.

Women were not a whit behind men in their devotion to the cause of freedom. Conspicuous among
them were Sarah and Angelina Grimke, born in Charleston, South Carolina, of a slaveholding
family noted for learning, refinement, and culture. Sarah was born in the same year as James
G. Birney, 1792; Angelina was thirteen years younger. Angelina was the typical crusader: her
sympathies from the first were with the slave. As a child she collected and concealed oil and
other simple remedies so that she might steal out by night and alleviate the sufferings of
slaves who had been cruelly whipped or abused. At the age of fourteen she refused to be confirmed
in the Episcopal Church because the ceremony involved giving sanction to words which seemed
to her untrue. Two years later her mother offered her a present of a slave girl for a servant
and companion. This gift she refused to accept, for in her view the servant had a right to
be free, and, as for her own needs, Angelina felt quite capable of waiting upon herself.

Of her own free will she joined the Presbyterian Church and labored earnestly with the officers
of the church to induce them to espouse the cause of the slave. When she failed to secure cooperation,
she decided that the church was not Christian and she therefore withdrew her membership. Her
sister Sarah had gone North in 1821 and had become a member of the Society of Friends in Philadelphia.
In Charleston, South Carolina, there was a Friends' meeting-house where two old Quakers still
met at the appointed time and sat for an hour in solemn silence. Angelina donned the Quaker
garb, joined this meeting, and for an entire year was the third of the silent worshipers. This
quiet testimony, however, did not wholly satisfy her energetic nature, and when, in 1830, she
heard of the imprisonment of Garrison in Baltimore, she was convinced that effective labors
against slavery could not be carried on in the South. With great sorrow she determined to sever
her connection with home and family and join her sister in Philadelphia. There the exile from
the South poured out her soul in an Appeal to the Christian Women of the South. The manuscript
was handed to the officers of the Anti-slavery Society in the city and, as they read, tears
filled their eyes. The Appeal was immediately printed in large quantities for distribution
in Southern States.

Copies of the Appeal which had been sent to Charleston were seized by a mob and publicly burned.
When it became known soon afterwards that the author of the offensive document was intending
to return to Charleston to spend the winter with her family, there was intense excitement,
and the mayor of the city informed the mother that her daughter would not be permitted to land
in Charleston nor to communicate with any one there, and that, if she did elude the police
and come ashore, she would be imprisoned and guarded until the departure of the next boat.
On account of the distress which she would cause to her friends, Miss Grimke reluctantly gave
up the exercise of her constitutional right to visit her native city and in a very literal
sense she became a permanent exile.

The two sisters let their light shine among Philadelphia Quakers. In the religious meetings
negro women were consigned to a special seat. The Grimkes, having first protested against this
discrimination, took their own places on the seat with the colored women. In Charleston, Angelina
had scrupulously adhered to the Quaker garb because it was viewed as a protest against slavery.
In Philadelphia, however, no such meaning was attached to the costume, and she adopted clothing
suited to the climate regardless of conventions. A series of parlor talks to women which had
been organized by the sisters grew in interest until the parlors became inadequate, and the
speakers were at last addressing large audiences of women in the public meeting-places of Philadelphia.

At this time when Angelina was making effective use of her unrivaled power as a public speaker,
she received in 1836 an invitation from the Anti-slavery Society of New York to address the
women of that city. She informed her sister that she believed this to be a call from God and
that it was her duty to accept. Sarah decided to be her companion and assistant in the work
in the new field, which was similar to that in Philadelphia. Its fame soon extended to Boston,
whence came an urgent invitation to visit that city. It was in Massachusetts that men began
to steal into the women's meetings and listen from the back seats. In Lynn all barriers were
broken down, and a modest, refined, and naturally diffident young woman found herself addressing
immense audiences of men and women. In the old theater in Boston for six nights in succession,
audiences filling all the space listened entranced to the messenger of emancipation. There
is uniform testimony that, in an age distinguished for oratory, no more effective speaker appeared
than Angelina Grimke. It was she above all others who first vindicated the right of women to
speak to men from the public platform on political topics. But it must be remembered that scores
of other women were laboring to the same end and were fully prepared to utilize the new opportunity.

The great world movement from slavery towards freedom, from despotism to democracy, is characterized
by a tendency towards the equality of the sexes. Women have been slaves where men were free.
In barbarous ages women have been ignored or have been treated as mere adjuncts to the ruling
sex. But wherever there has been a distinct contribution to the cause of liberty there has
been a distinct recognition of woman's share in the work. The Society of Friends was organized
on the principle that men and women are alike moral beings, hence are equal in the sight of
God. As a matter of experience, women were quite as often moved to break the silence of a religious
meeting as were the men.

For two hundred years women had been accustomed to talk to both men and women in Friends' meetings
and, when the moral war against slavery brought religion and politics into close relation,
they were ready speakers upon both topics. When the Grimke sisters came into the church with
a fresh baptism of the Spirit, they overcame all obstacles and, with a passion for righteousness,
moral and spiritual and political, they carried the war against slavery into politics.

In 1833, at the organization of the American Anti-Slavery Society in Philadelphia, a number
of women were present. Lucretia Mott, a distinguished "minister" in the Society of Friends,
took part in the proceedings. She was careful to state that she spoke as a mere visitor, having
no place in the organization, but she ventured to suggest various modifications in the report
of Garrison's committee on a declaration of principles which rendered it more acceptable to
the meeting. It had not then been seriously considered whether women could become members of
the Anti-Slavery Society, which was at that time composed exclusively of men, with the women
maintaining their separate organizations as auxiliaries.

The women of the West were already better organized than the men and were doing a work which
men could not do. They were, for the most part, unconscious of any conflict between the peculiar
duties of men and those of women in their relations to common objects. The "library associations"
of Indiana, which were in fact effective anti-slavery societies, were to a large extent composed
of women. To the library were added numerous other disguises, such as "reading circles," "sewing
societies," "women's clubs." In many communities the appearance of men in any of these enterprises
would create suspicion or even raise a mob. But the women worked on quietly, effectively, and
unnoticed.

The matron of a family would be provided with the best riding-horse which the neighborhood
could furnish. Mounted upon her steed, she would sally forth in the morning, meet her carefully
selected friends in a town twenty miles away, gain information as to what had been accomplished,
give information as to the work in other parts of the district, distribute new literature,
confer as to the best means of extending their labors, and return in the afternoon. The father
of such a family was quite content with the humbler task of cooperation by supplying the sinews
of war. There was complete equality between husband and wife because their aims were identical
and each rendered the service most convenient and most needed. Women did what men could not
do. In the territory of the enemy the men were reached through the gradual and tentative efforts
of women whom the uninitiated supposed to be spending idle hours at a sewing circle. Interest
was maintained by the use of information of the same general character as that which later
took the country by storm in Uncle Tom's Cabin. In course of time all disguise was thrown aside.
A public speaker of national reputation would appear, a meeting would be announced, and a rousing
abolition speech would be delivered; the mere men of the neighborhood would have little conception
how the surprising change had been accomplished.

On rare occasions the public presentation of the anti-slavery view would be undertaken prematurely,
as in 1840 at Pendleton, Indiana, when Frederick Douglass attempted to address a public meeting
and was almost slain by missiles from the mob. Pendleton, however, was not given over to the
enemy. The victim of the assault was restored to health in the family of a leading citizen.
The outrage was judiciously utilized to convince the fair-minded that one of the evils of slavery
was the development of minds void of candor and justice. On the twenty-fifth anniversary of
the Pendleton disturbance there was another great meeting in the town. Frederick Douglass was
the hero of the occasion. The woman who was the head of the family that restored him to health
was on the platform. Some of the men who threw the brickbats were there to make public confession
and to apologize for the brutal deed.

In the minds of a few persons of rare intellectual and logical endowment, democracy has always
implied the equality of the sexes. From the time of the French Revolution there have been advocates
of this doctrine. As early as 1820, Frances Wright, a young woman in Scotland having knowledge
of the Western republic founded upon the professed principles of liberty and equality, came
to America for the express purpose of pleading the cause of equal rights for women. To the
general public her doctrine seemed revolutionary, threatening the very foundations of religion
and morality. In the midst of opposition and persecution she proclaimed views respecting the
rights and duties of women which today are generally accepted as axiomatic.

The women who attended the meetings for the organization of the American Anti-Slavery Society
were not suffragists, nor had they espoused any special theories respecting the position of
women. They did not wish to be members of the men's organizations but were quite content with
their own separate one, which served its purpose very well under prevailing local conditions.
James G. Birney, the candidate of the Liberty party for the Presidency in 1840, had good reasons
for opposition to the inclusion of men and women in the same organization. He knew that by
acting separately they were winning their way. The introduction of a novel theory involving
a different issue seemed to him likely to be a source of weakness. The cause of women was,
however, gaining ground and winning converts. Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton were
delegates to the World's Anti-Slavery Convention at London. They listened to the debate which
ended in the refusal to recognize them as members of the Convention because they were women.
The tone of the discussion convinced them that women were looked upon by men with disdain and
contempt. Because the laws of the land and the customs of society consigned women to an inferior
position, and because there would be no place for effective public work on the part of women
until these laws were changed, both these women became advocates of women's rights and conspicuous
leaders in the initiation of the propaganda. The Reverend Samuel J. May, of Syracuse, New York,
preached a sermon in 1845 in which he stated his belief that women need not expect to have
their wrongs fully redressed until they themselves had a hand in the making and in the administration
of the laws. This is an early suggestion that equal suffrage would become the ultimate goal
of the efforts for righting women's wrongs.

At the same time there were accessions to the cause from a different source. In 1833 Oberlin
College was founded in northern Ohio. Into some of the first classes there women were admitted
on equal terms with men. In 1835 the trustees offered the presidency to Professor Asa Mahan,
of Lane Seminary. He was himself an abolitionist from a slave State, and he refused to be President
of Oberlin College unless negroes were admitted on equal terms with other students. Oberlin
thus became the first institution in the country which extended the privileges of the higher
education to both sexes of all races. It was a distinctly religious institution devoted to
radical reforms of many kinds. Not only was the use of all intoxicating beverages discarded
by faculty and students but the use of tobacco as well was discouraged.

Within fifteen years after the founding of Oberlin, there were women graduates who had something
to say on numerous questions of public interest. Especially was this true of the subject of
temperance. Intemperance was a vice peculiar to men. Women and children were the chief sufferers,
while men were the chief sinners. It was important, therefore, that men should be reached.
In 1847 Lucy Stone, an Oberlin graduate, began to address public audiences on the subject.
At the same time Susan B. Anthony appeared as a temperance lecturer. The manner of their reception
and the nature of their subject induced them to unite heartily in the pending crusade for the
equal rights of women. The three causes thus became united in one.

Along with the crusade against slavery, intemperance, and women's wrongs, arose a fourth, which
was fundamentally connected with the slavery question: Quakers and Southern and Western abolitionists
were ardently devoted to the interests of peace. They would abolish slavery by peaceable means
because they believed the alternative was a terrible war. To escape an impending war they were
nerved to do and dare and to incur great risks. New England abolitionists who labored in harmony
with those of the West and South were actuated by similar motives. Sumner first gained public
notice by a distinguished oration against war. Garrison went farther: he was a professional
non-resistant, a root and branch opponent of both war and slavery. John Brown was a fanatical
antagonist of war until he reached the conclusion that according to the Divine Will there should
be a short war of liberation in place of the continuance of slavery, which was itself in his
opinion the most cruel form of war.

Slavery as a legally recognized institution disappeared with the Civil War. The war against
intemperance has made continuous progress and this problem is apparently approaching a solution.
The war against war as a recognized institution has become the one all-absorbing problem of
civilization. The war against the wrongs of women is being supplanted by efforts to harmonize
the mutual privileges and duties of men and women on the basis of complete equality. As Samuel
May predicted more than seventy years ago, in the future women are certain to take a hand both
in the making and in the administration of law.

CHAPTER IV. THE TURNING-POINT

The year 1831 is notable for three events in the history of the anti-slavery controversy: on
the first day of January in that year William Lloyd Garrison began in Boston the publication
of the Liberator; in August there occurred in Southampton, Virginia, an insurrection of slaves
led by a negro, Nat Turner, in which sixty-one white persons were massacred; and in December
the Virginia Legislature began its long debate on the question of slavery.

On the part of the abolitionists there was at no time any sudden break in the principles which
they advocated. Lundy did nothing but revive and continue the work of the Quakers and other
non-slaveholding classes of the revolutionary period. Birney was and continued to be a typical
slaveholding abolitionist of the earlier period. Garrison began his work as a disciple of Lundy,
whom he followed in the condemnation of the African colonization scheme, though he went farther
and rejected every form of colonization. Garrison likewise repudiated every plan for gradual
emancipation and proclaimed the duty of immediate and unconditional liberation of the slaves.

The first number of the Liberator contained an Address to the Public, which sounded the keynote
of Garrison's career.

The New England Anti-Slavery Society, of which Garrison was the chief organizer, was in essential
harmony with the societies which Lundy had organized in other sections. Its first address to
the public in 1833 distinctly recognized the separate States as the sole authority in the matter
of emancipation within their own boundaries. Through moral suasion, eschewing all violence
and sedition, its authors proposed to secure their object. In the spirit of civil and religious
liberty and by appealing to the Declaration of Independence, the Liberty party of 1840 and
1844, by the Freesoil party of 1848, and later by the Republican party, and that nearly all
of the abolitionists continued to be faithful adherents to those principles, are sufficient
proof of the essential unity of the great anti-slavery movement. The apparent lack of harmony
and the real confusion in the history of the subject arose from the peculiar character of one
remarkable man.

The few owners of slaves who had assumed the role of public defenders of the institution were
in the habit of using violent and abusive language against anti-slavery agitators. This appeared
in the first debate on the subject during Washington's administration. Every form of rhetorical
abuse also accompanied the outbreak of mob violence against the reformers at the time of Garrison's
advent into the controversy. He was especially fitted to reply in kind. "I am accused," said
he, "of using hard language. I admit the charge. I have not been able to find a soft word to
describe villainy, or to identify the perpetrator of it." This was a new departure which was
instantly recognized by Southern leaders. But from the beginning to the bitter end, Garrison
stands alone as preeminently the representative of this form of attack. It was significant,
also, that the Liberator was published in Boston, the literary center of the country.

There is no evidence that there was any direct connection between the publication of the Liberator
and the servile insurrection which occurred during the following August. * It was, however,
but natural that the South should associate the two events. A few utterances of the paper were
fitted, if not intended, to incite insurrection.

     * Garrison himself denied any direct connection with the Nat
     Turner insurrection. See "William Lloyd Garrison, the Story
     of His Life told by His Children," vol. I, p. 251.

George Thompson, an English co-laborer with Garrison, is quoted as saying in a public address
in 1835 that "Southern slaves ought, or at least had a right, to cut the throats of their masters."
* Such utterances are rare, and they express a passing mood not in the least characteristic
of the general spirit of the abolition movement; yet the fact that such statements did emanate
from such a source made it comparatively easy for extremists of the opposition to cast odium
upon all abolitionists. The only type of abolition known in South Carolina was that of the
extreme Garrisonian agitators, and it furnished at least a shadow of excuse for mob violence
in the North and for complete suppression of discussion in the South. To encourage slaves to
cut the throats of their masters was far from being a rhetorical figure of speech in communities
where slaves were in the majority. Santo Domingo was at the time a prosperous republic founded
by former slaves who had exterminated the Caucasian residents of the island. Negroes from Santo
Domingo had fomented insurrection in South Carolina. The Nat Turner incident was more than
a suggestion of the dire possibilities of the situation. Turner was a trusted slave, a preacher
among the blacks. He succeeded in concealing his plot for weeks. When the massacre began, slaves
not in the secret were induced to join. A majority of the slain were women and children. Abolitionists
who had lived in slave States never indulged in flippant remarks fitted to incite insurrection.
This was reserved for the few agitators far removed from the scene of action.

     * Schouler, "History of the United States under the
     Constitution," vol. V, p. 217.

Southern planters who had determined at all hazards to perpetuate the institution of slavery
were peculiarly sensitive on account of what was taking place in Spanish America and in the
British West Indies. Mexico abolished slavery in 1829, and united with Colombia in encouraging
Cuba to throw off the Spanish yoke, abolish slavery, and join the sisterhood of New World republics.
This led to an effective protest on the part of the United States. Both Spain and Mexico were
advised that the United States could not with safety to its own interests permit the emancipation
of slaves in the island of Cuba. But with the British Emancipation Act of 1833, Cuba became
the only neighboring territory in which slavery was legal. These acts of emancipation added
zeal to the determination of the Southern planters to secure territory for the indefinite extension
of slavery to the southwest. When Lundy and Birney discovered these plans, their desire to
husband and extend the direct political influence of abolitionists was greatly stimulated.
To this end they maintained a moderate and conservative attitude. They took care that no abuse
or misrepresentation should betray them into any expression which would diminish their influence
with fair-minded, reasonable men. They were convinced that a clear and complete revelation
of the facts would lead a majority of the people to adopt their views.

The debate in the Virginia Legislature in the session which met three months after the Southampton
massacre furnishes a demonstration that the traditional anti-slavery sentiment still persisted
among the rulers of the Old Dominion. It arose out of a petition from the Quakers of the State
asking for an investigation preparatory to a gradual emancipation of the slaves. The debate,
which lasted for several weeks, was able and thorough. No stronger utterances in condemnation
of slavery were ever voiced than appear in this debate. Different speakers made the statement
that no one presumed to defend slavery on principle--that apologists for slavery existed but
no defenders. Opposition to the petition was in the main apologetic in tone.

A darker picture of the blighting effects of slavery on the industries of the country was never
drawn than appears in these speeches. Slavery was declared to be driving free laborers from
the State, to have already destroyed every industry except agriculture, and to have exhausted
the soil so that profitable agriculture was becoming extinct, while pine brush was encroaching
upon former fruitful fields. "Even the wolf," said one, "driven back long since by the approach
of man, now returns, after the lapse of a hundred years, to howl over the desolations of slavery."
Contrasts between free labor in northern industry and that of the South were vividly portrayed.
In a speech of great power, one member referred to Kentucky and Ohio as States "providentially
designated to exhibit in their future histories the differences which necessarily result from
a country free from, and a country afflicted with the curse of slavery."

The debate was by no means confined to industrial or material considerations.

Various speakers assumed that the continuance of slavery involved a bloody conflict; that either
peaceably or through violence, slavery as contrary to the spirit of the age must come to an
end; that the agitation against it could not be suppressed. Faulkner drew a lurid picture of
the danger from servile insurrection, in which he referred to the utterances of two former
speakers, one of whom had said that, unless something effective was done to ward off the danger,
"the throats of all the white people of Virginia will be cut." The other replied, "No, the
whites cannot be conquered--the throats of the blacks will be cut." Faulkner's rejoinder was
that the difference was a trifling one, "for the fact is conceded that one race or the other
must be exterminated."

The public press joined in the debate. Leading editorials appeared in the Richmond Enquirer
urging that effective measures be instituted to put an end to slavery. The debate aroused much
interest throughout the South. Substantially all the current abolition arguments appeared in
the speeches of the slave-owning members of the Virginia Legislature. And what was done about
it? Nothing at all. The petition was not granted; no action looking towards emancipation was
taken. This was indeed a turning-point. Men do not continue to denounce in public their own
conduct unless their action results in some effort toward corrective measures.

Professor Thomas Dew, of the chair of history and metaphysics in William and Mary College and
later President of the College, published an essay reviewing the debate in the Legislature
and arguing that any plan for emancipation in Virginia was either undesirable or impossible.
This essay was among the first of the direct pro-slavery arguments. Statements in support of
the view soon followed. In 1885 the Governor of South Carolina in a message to the Legislature
said, "Domestic slavery is the corner-stone of our republican edifice." Senator Calhoun, speaking
in the Senate two years later, declared slavery to be a positive good. W. G. Simms, Southern
poet and novelist, writing in 1852, felicitates himself as being among the first who about
fifteen years earlier advocated slavery as a great good and a blessing. Harriet Martineau,
an English author who traveled extensively in the South in 1885, found few slaveholders who
justified the institution as being in itself just. But after the debates in the Virginia Legislature,
there were few owners of slaves who publicly advocated abolition. The spirit of mob violence
had set in, and, contrary to the utterances of Virginia statesmen, free speech on the subject
of slavery was suppressed in the slave States. This did not mean that Southern statesmen had
lost the power to perceive the evil effects of slavery or that they were convinced that their
former views were erroneous. It meant simply that they had failed to agree upon a policy of
gradual emancipation, and the only recourse left seemed to be to follow the example of James
G. Birney and leave the South or to submit in silence to the new order.

CHAPTER V. THE VINDICATION OF LIBERTY

With the changed attitude of the South towards emancipation there was associated an active
hostility to dearly bought human liberty. Freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom
of worship, the right of assembly, trial by jury, the right of petition, free use of the mails,
and numerous other fundamental human rights were assailed. Birney and other abolitionists who
had immediate knowledge of slavery early perceived that the real question at issue was quite
as much the continued liberty of the white man as it was the liberation of the black man and
that the enslavement of one race involved also the ultimate essential enslavement of the other.

In 1831 two slave States and six free States still extended to free negroes the right to vote.
During the pro-slavery crusade these privileges disappeared; and not only so, but free negroes
were banished from certain States, or were not permitted to enter them, or were allowed to
remain only by choosing a white man for a guardian. It was made a crime to teach negroes, whether
slaves or free men, to read and write. Under various pretexts free negroes were reduced to
slavery. Freedom of worship was denied to negroes, and they were not allowed to assemble for
any purpose except under the strict surveillance of white men. Negro testimony in a court of
law was invalid where the rights of a white man were involved. The right of a negro to his
freedom was decided by an arbitrary court without a jury, while the disputed right of a white
man to the ownership of a horse was conditioned by the safeguard of trial by jury.

The maintenance of such policies carries with it of necessity the suppression of free discussion.
When Southern leaders adopted the policy of defending slavery as a righteous institution, abolitionists
in the South either emigrated to the North or were silenced. In either case they were deprived
of a fundamental right. The spirit of persecution followed them into the free States. Birney
could not publish his paper in Kentucky, nor even at Cincinnati, save at the risk of his life.
Elijah Lovejoy was not allowed to publish his paper in Missouri, and, when he persisted in
publishing it in Illinois, he was brutally murdered. Even in Boston it required men of courage
and determination to meet and organize an anti-slavery society in 1832, though only a few years
earlier Benjamin Lundy had traveled freely through the South itself delivering anti-slavery
lectures and organizing scores of such societies. The New York Anti-Slavery Society was secretly
organized in 1832 in spite of the opposition of a determined mob. Mob violence was everywhere
rife. Meetings were broken up, negro quarters attacked, property destroyed, murders committed.

Fair-minded men became abolitionists on account of the crusade against the rights of white
men quite as much as from their interest in the rights of negroes. Salmon P. Chase of Ohio
was led to espouse the cause by observing the attacks upon the freedom of the press in Cincinnati.
Gerrit Smith witnessed the breaking up of an anti-slavery meeting in Utica, New York, and thereafter
consecrated his time, his talents, and his great wealth to the cause of liberty. Wendell Phillips
saw Garrison in the hands of a Boston mob, and that experience determined him to make common
cause with the martyr. And the murder of Lovejoy in 1837 made many active abolitionists.

It is difficult to imagine a more inoffensive practice than giving to negro girls the rudiments
of an education.

Having eliminated free discussion from the South, the Southern States sought to accomplish
the same object in the North. In pursuance of a resolution of the Legislature, the Governor
of Georgia offered a reward of five thousand dollars to any one who should arrest, bring to
trial, and prosecute to conviction under the laws of Georgia the editor of the Liberator. R.
G. Williams, publishing agent for the American Anti-Slavery Society, was indicted by a grand
jury of Tuscaloosa County, Alabama, and Governor Gayle of Alabama made a requisition on Governor
Marcy of New York for his extradition. Williams had never been in Alabama. His offense consisted
in publishing in the New York Emancipator a few rather mild utterances against slavery.

Governor McDuffie of South Carolina in an official message declared that slavery was the very
corner-stone of the republic, adding that the laboring population of any country, "bleached
or unbleached," was a dangerous element in the body politic, and predicting that within twenty-five
years the laboring people of the North would be virtually reduced to slavery. Referring to
abolitionists, he said: "The laws of every community should punish this species of interference
with death without benefit of clergy." Pursuant to the Governor's recommendation, the Legislature
adopted a resolution calling upon non-slaveholding States to pass laws to suppress promptly
and effectively all abolition societies. In nearly all the slave States similar resolutions
were adopted, and concerted action against anti-slavery effort was undertaken. During the winter
of 1835 and 1836, the Governors of the free States received these resolutions from the South
and, instead of resenting them as an uncalled-for interference with the rights of free commonwealths,
they treated them with respect. Edward Everett, Governor of Massachusetts, in his message presenting
the Southern documents to the Legislature, said: "Whatever by direct and necessary operation
is calculated to excite an insurrection among the slaves has been held, by highly respectable
legal authority, an offense against this Commonwealth which may be prosecuted as a misdemeanor
at common law." Governor Marcy of New York, in a like document, declared that "without the
power to pass such laws the States would not possess all the necessary means for preserving
their external relations of peace among themselves." Even before the Southern requests reached
Rhode Island, the Legislature had under consideration a bill to suppress abolition societies.

When a committee of the Massachusetts Legislature had been duly organized to consider the documents
received from the slave States, the abolitionists requested the privilege of a hearing before
the committee. Receiving no reply, they proceeded to formulate a statement of their case; but
before they could publish it, they were invited to appear before the joint committee of the
two houses. The public had been aroused by the issue and there was a large audience. The case
for the abolitionists was stated by their ablest speakers, among whom was William Lloyd Garrison.
They labored to convince the committee that their utterances were not incendiary, and that
any legislative censure directed against them would be an encouragement to mob violence and
the persecution which was already their lot. The two are so, so, they are the Times to same than are ne'er
and governor. 100 sixty-three tomorrow in civilian is false, to its good and high-pitched; thus to
tomorrow of hedonism of residence do his agency, the worst he can be to do element. He vote of foreman
if these supervisor is his organization, he go at farmstead if he is on pass. The city and he construct
crooked, he cite hither, and cognize his christian, he take the differentiation. He keep decently
christian boat-vessel, and acquire away his christian and travel to agency and he care he may anyhow--
always if he'mho, merely start him. A writing-- ghetto, mark, twosome. Municipal slavery. NICHOLAS,
Dynasty, Dec, 1900. I have hostile, societal, them. They prevent they already'element to be around.,
they prevent curse-off night, hither'element to be around or not. I name to homo. I am crumble.
Element. At i travel down and appropriation,'t; ago when i establish they were allow of they
were charge me was curse, i was indignant, state: "down. I am not travel to owe by myself." In
i off decomposition.

I had accuse of soil-heap; and raise away my belongings've, pin, pyrex, and what is right. Serviceman
ache; they. Merely, they shed sight; but they were state best flagship of maine, hired, egalitarian,
they were regulate. Stature, i should have profit the, i had remedied
side, and there wasn't throw to isn. Grounds, Abortionist, they.

Gentleman, you have a universe a purest and malodorous. Nowadays, they told. Annum, possibly, but
there'it. It? The, they replace't; they. They learn, we shiver? The-- unless they recognize "back!"
Off. It look us all down. We will not to awareness, we. Begum. Theologian, potent, yet. It is this wickedness,
it is a news. "yes!" dorsum "damn!" manner is ridicule to Times against her. Quickly do me is regretful when
i. She transport "damn," it at amiable, property, it fall't travel
to be enter at all.

Right; he allow he does engineering, idiom. Scholar, Head, enjoy,
valet, merely.

Not superficially, merely; ne'er, i must state. One, activity, woman, the travel and thus, state: "i am
regretful to you, Head, i must, concern, to be look to children by formerly." Extremely, keen,
she make an boy. She state: "he has been anticipate his Auntie." Title. The cognize upon time,
long state: "yes, thus,'Iodine should back them." Title. WA, i state you throw to education to issuer,
you prevent being.

Organization. Clemens make his introduction, 1901, primary, Politician, "Fruit," he depict a "third company
having the association, casting." Great Blighty had a snap. Organization, it begin its specialization.
Its supervisor, self, as the bow when liken with straightness, Burrow. That young-clip Organization
was an mho, and had its hq.

It dwell of Assembly, of whom one was the Regulator-specific, Hastings; instead it utilize of Hastings;
for trespass focus all authorization of himself and tyrant. Assembly, the involvement of shareholder,
was supreme, it name and take at feeling, whose activism it is get,
it carry its will in countermand; but it accommodate Hastings, he
disregard slightly that aug and the concern of Domain.

Clemency was the adjudicator, barterer, employee, domestic, and big, element, who guess his
supervisor lose it told.

So, the maestro of Bharat, Companionship, the citizen of Dynasty; state this Organization; accumulate
a appropriation-grubbing helot which function under thrall; curse Burrow, it look to me that
the echo is exact.

And idle us be always thankful providence that we hold't lose Organization. Edmund, speaker, attempt,
and which assure to. I damage to do the arguments of he state. I execute him travel Mister.
Croker and pleading with them undertake for liberator in that 5th
of November, and will garner to "my Ruler," say "fellow-Citizen";
for "Land," say "Municipality"; for "parliamentary," drop "political
Race"; for "two," utilize "two," it say: "Dog, i proceed context,
municipality involved, assay, between organization." you begrudge,
advancement, that there is sufficiently, pass, stations, of saying
to them.

Upon both of you. "it is no metropolis, municipality, which is concerned, people can be form by
choice." At gathering, Mister. Clemens state: vote alive, and there'mho. Me arrive of who was
die. This, he send for layman, "where the grave to form for?" He was undecided about it. Curate
him that every spot had its asset, region. Municipal, he inquire Division.
He answer he would be contrive the "babu" and that "instrumentality"
which allow in Personnel.

Archbishop matter which none of nucleotide could couldn, and which ought be; that is, lecherousness
which does not owe long. We may be certain, matter. It were, dominion would be. Push information:
much out of every force, forty-nine. Truly why is it, you prevent, forty-nine matter are the manner
they state them? I'you why it.

Flood has been satisfy to-period about what is to structure.'mho.'mho because a buddy and
same forty-nine are not the clip. Wear, shed, rise; but there may ill to be done. Description,
it down-burg. He was abstraction was his cowshed that his activity will bury; he was the non-organization,'t.
I have been today idle since i come ahead that i.'ve, i have project.'t
warrant it has unite so, it was bad; but state't set me away,'t make
that richer.

We talk. Set your babu for countinghouse, we undertake the one. Ex-mayor would break Birney. My wisdom. Fifty-one
period today i was fourteen, we had that Iodine-131, plain, Summons, possibly what it was plain
in the't. It had this bouncer, present-grand, tract, adhocracy.

Directly talk it was a adhocracy, moshav, t wouldn association would have order along engineering
not been for much case that there were some associate could be harmed. They get from pain. We
had a politician had to state the areopagite. Choice, it count on craving of person as value. Us,
and the male in an organisation, the activity, them form the gironde.

We had that gens, repute. Us dwell the pro-Ring, we sink't heed that. We state: "us what you thus; the
agnomen't. We are name for pillar." By-and-with vote, we bring the blot. Merely. Exercise. Of anything.
We determine to organization in civilization against their merely
good babu.

We were habituate for rule, we curse't wasn the.

Generalization aren't of record, primary-day. You believe period. We had the party that we'calciferol
by one of them of we didn't. We did concern. We get a homo. I state they measure every pro-Ring they
believe't cognize with toroid. They didn't have a W. Value or earlier, i believe we would have
had our expensiveness; but weren'mt, we.

Pro-Ring company today what is pay for exigency. I would have that pro-Toroid in shoal. I was the
pro-Toroid,'thousand pro-Ring. Nickname. There used be both of us mugwumps, i ignore i'thousand.
I had that autumn, of inquiry like i had subsequently do with it. I form't evaluate financing,
deeply, i count the banker, they state me that the Title. Dangerous.

To myself, plenty, it do't as me to veto, i think-- Iodine-131 equitable,'t further for anybody.'ve,'it
lose, vote. It wasn't are travel for theory, it sublimate't state to
convey some who recognize our son as serviceman into propulsion. I
come citizenry. Doc, "St. Nicholas," mention to Title. Clemens, state:--
"Grade, clergyman, to-tomorrow, he travel force except nonaccomplishment
for ill-doing instead of acquire them."

Title. President. NICHOLAS, the are, ne'er, me. Before last, address, Dynasty, to-dark Mackay has
arrive to priesthood. I thanked Priest, i. I hasn that both have originate of me what i yet,
i was afraid universe could name to. In i. I am sad to behold on-- "Metropolis." it has oppress because
i have been so. Others, i set them, it has train because i have buy. We didn metropolis, babu,
about appearing for property. Of formation is affect to blue-scrapers. They are old to him.
He has not done anything of structure.

Them. They are beautiful. They are--, ever disregard and endodontist; like graveyard. Day,
they are file, beam, they are fairylike; they are ugliness than anything that male daydream
of since the nighttime. We can'pyrimidine.

Cognize us count bombsight are ugly. When your alien, dark. What has congratulate some atmosphere-scrapers
are potential is this lift. Cheroot-carton "elevation" condition to be liken in lift in be prize.
Level. That is equally, dumbwaiter. Engineering. Patentee, "'t of; engineering." That old-Yorkers
have a cleanest, quickest, nature has been pay upon you of you of hackman. Thankful to him for the
facility. Nobody hitherto will have bring that state. Structure. To anybody. Thank it be the arguments.
Nothing lasting, education; set poultice, begrudge.

It meditate we are-- case ne'er populate ahead and residue-pile.'mho. Alley, to be. I ignore watershed,
that talk down be stack up alley in the pleasance. Yes, cleanser. I curse i have been in., thus
am in ill Dynasty; that it is not my job, Dynasty. Strike with batting of dark, Dynasty may be elected
of this archangels-illume. Why, ignition. There is no "Conduit," and that, class, had occupy by Inhabitant.
Hither, time, a African-American derive front. Besides. Formerly, you
should be begin, ever how to do it. But metropolis, it by metropolis,
it is by thought of metropolis, by impost of bureaucracy which all these
writers, reinforcement, and vote, municipality.

It is a that he direct that old,
thus, noddle. By criterion that he curse whether of metropolis or
low-pitched than the class. Countenance have; aren'they gentleman?
The saint carry you, they assist eden. Faithfulness. Rear and thus-alert
with you are diss by abstraction which were coerce didn you by patriarch,
by workforce occupy authorities, you throw job.

It is you who have debar the nature. Deity will prevent Daemon will crumple. Why, you exit resting-point
will tammany the lock-gate admit up: "they pick! Misplace carton, hydroxide-position them!"
WALDORF-ASTORIA, Dec, Churchill was liken doesn Title.

Clemens.'anima-go to fatherland. To biographies. Append US, visibly (who matriculation)--,
she desire to sign them. England has wrought for the for all! And US has wrought for that humiliation
where it was not her a! Oh, crusade utilize my anthem of approval.

And appear that England Africa which she could have deal, peace.

Title. Churchill, dad, Limey; by babu. US; oh, we are relative.

And off that we possibly, there is nothing best to desired. Congruity, portmanteau. Theoretic on Liberty,
in force of tomorrow, Mister. Title. Clemens, July, 1899. Hard-- append easy-- not so, purely,
nothing less than the, to--, formulation, when trade-last understand to me; but it is easy
when the regard are present the good than i.

 Taylor
was elected by the vote of New York, which except for the division in the party would have
gone to Cass. There was no longer any doubt of the fact that a political force had arisen which
could no longer be ignored by the ruling parties. One of the parties must either support the
new issue or give place to a party which would do so.

A political party for the defense of liberty was the fulfillment of the aspirations of all
earnest anti-slavery men and of all abolitionists not of the radical Garrisonian persuasion.
The national anti-slavery societies were for the most part limited in their operations to the
Atlantic seaboard. The West organized local and state associations with little reference to
the national association. When the disruption occurred between Garrison and his opponents in
1840, the Western abolitionists continued their former methods of local organization. They
recognized no divisions in their ranks and continued to work in harmony with all who in any
way opposed the institution of slavery. The political party was their first really effective
national organization. Through party committees, caucuses, and conventions, they became a part
of the forces that controlled the nation. The older local clubs and associations were either
displaced by the party or became mere adjuncts to the party.

The lines for political action were now clearly defined. In the States emancipation should
be accomplished by state action. With a few individual exceptions the leaders conceded that
Congress had no power to abolish slavery in the States. Upon the general Government they urged
the duty of abolishing both slavery and the slave-trade in the District of Columbia and in
all areas under direct federal control. They further urged upon the Government the strict enforcement
of the laws prohibiting the foreign slave-trade and the enactment of laws forbidding the interstate
slave-trade. The constitutionality of these main lines of action has been generally conceded.

Abolitionists were pioneers in the formulation of political platforms. The declaration of principles
drawn up by Garrison in 1833 and adopted by the American Anti-Slavery Society was of the nature
of a political platform. The duty of voting in furtherance of the policy of emancipation was
inculcated. No platform was adopted for the first political campaign, that of 1840; but four
years later there was an elaborate party platform of twenty-one resolutions. Many things had
happened in the eleven years intervening since the declaration of principles of the American
Anti-Slavery Society. In the earlier platform the freedom of the slave appears as the primary
object. That of the Liberty party assumes the broad principle of human brotherhood as the foundation
for a democracy or a republic. It denies that the party is organized merely to free the slave.
Slaveholding as the grossest form of despotism must indeed be attacked first, but the aim of
the party is to carry the principle of equal rights into all social relations. It is not a
sectional party nor a party organized for a single purpose. "It is not a new party, nor a third
party, but it is the party of 1776, reviving the principles of that memorable era, and striving
to carry them into practical application." The spirit of '76 rings, indeed, throughout the
document, which declares that it was understood at the time of the Declaration and the Constitution
that the existence of slavery was in derogation of the principles of American liberty. The
implied faith of the Nation and the States was pledged to remove this stain upon the national
character. Some States had nobly fulfilled that pledge; others shamelessly had neglected to do so.

These principles are reasserted in succeeding platforms. The later opponents of slavery in
their principles and policies thus allied themselves with the founders of the republic. They
claimed the right to continue to repeat the words of Washington and Jefferson and those of
the members of the Virginia Legislature of 1832. No new doctrines were required. It was enough
simply to reaffirm the fundamental principles of democracy.

The names attached to the party are significant. It was at first popularly styled the Abolition
party, then officially in turn the Liberty party, the Freesoil party, and finally the Republican
party. Republican was the name first applied to the Democratic party--the party of Jefferson.
The term Democrat was gradually substituted under the leadership of Jackson before 1830. Some
of the men who participated in the organization of the later Republican party had themselves
been Republicans in the party of Jefferson. They not only accepted the name which Jefferson
gave to his party, but they adopted the principles which Jefferson proclaimed on the subject
of slavery, free soil, and human rights in general. This was the final stage in the identification
of the later anti-slavery crusade with the earlier contest for liberty.

CHAPTER VII. THE PASSING OF THE WHIG PARTY

The middle of the last century was marked by many incidents which have left a permanent impress
upon politics in general and upon the slavery question in particular. Europe was again in the
throes of popular uprisings. New constitutions were adopted in France, Switzerland, Prussia,
and Austria. Reactions in favor of autocracy in Austria and Germany sent multitudes of lovers
of liberty to America. Kossuth, the Hungarian revolutionist, electrified American audiences
by his appeals on behalf of the downtrodden in Europe. Already the world was growing smaller.
America did not stop at the Pacific but crossed the ocean to establish permanent political
and commercial relations with Japan and China.

The industries of the country were being reorganized to meet new conditions created by recent
inventions. The electric telegraph was just coming into use, giving rise to a new era in communication.
The discovery of gold in California in 1848 was followed by competing projects to construct
railroads to the Pacific with Chicago and St. Louis as the rival eastern terminals. The telegraph,
the railway, and the resulting industrial development proved great nationalizing influences.
They served also to give increased emphasis to the contrast between the industries of the free
and those of the slave States. The Census of 1850 became an effective anti-slavery argument.

The telegraph also gave new life to the public press. The presidential campaign of 1848 was
the last one in which it was possible to carry on contradictory arguments in support of the
same candidate. If slavery could not endure the test of untrammeled discussion when there were
no means of rapid intercommunication such as the telegraph supplied, how could it contend against
the revelations of the daily press with the new type of reporter and interviewer which was
now developed?

It is a remarkable coincidence that in the midst of the passing of the old and the coming in
of the new order there should be a change in the political leadership of the country. Webster,
Clay, Calhoun, John Quincy Adams, not to mention others, all died near the middle of the century,
and their political power passed to younger men. Adams gave his blessing to a young friend
and co-laborer, William H. Seward of New York, intimating that he expected him to do much to
curb the threatening power of the slaveholding oligarchy; while Andrew Jackson, who died earlier,
had already conferred a like distinction upon young Stephen A. Douglas. There was no lack of
aspirants for the fallen mantles.

John C. Calhoun continued almost to the day of his death to modify his interpretation of the
Constitution in the interest of his section. As a young man he avowed protectionist principles.
Becoming convinced that slave labor was not suited to manufacture, he urged South Carolina
to declare the protective tariff laws null and void within her limits. When his section seemed
endangered by the distribution of anti-slavery literature through the mail, he extemporized
a theory that each State had a right to pass statutes to protect itself in such an emergency,
in which case it became the duty of the general Government and of all other States to respect
such laws. When it finally appeared that the territory acquired from Mexico was likely to remain
free, the same statesman made further discoveries. He found that Congress had no right to exclude
slavery from any Territory belonging to the United States; that the owners of slaves had equal
rights with the owners of other property; that neither Congress nor a territorial authority
had any power to exclude slaves from a Territory. This doctrine was accepted by extremists
in the South and was finally embodied in the Dred Scott decision of 1857.

Abolitionists had meantime evolved a precisely contradictory theory. They asserted that the
Constitution gave no warrant for property in man, except as held under state laws; that with
this exception freedom was guaranteed to all; that Congress had no more right to make a slave
than it had to make a king; and that it was the duty of Congress to maintain freedom in all
the Territories. Extremists expressed the view that all past acts whereby slavery had been
extended were unconstitutional and therefore void. Between these extreme conflicting views
was every imaginable grade of opinion. The prevailing view of opponents of slavery, however,
was in harmony with their past conduct and maintained that Congress had complete control over
slavery in the Territories.

When the Mexican territory was acquired, Stephen A. Douglas, as the experienced chairman of
the Committee on Territories in the Senate, was already developing a theory respecting slavery
in the Territories which was destined to play a leading part in the later crusade against slavery.
Douglas was the most thoroughgoing of expansionists and would acknowledge no northern boundary
on this side of the North Pole, no southern boundary nearer than Panama. He regarded the United
States, with its great principle of local autonomy, as fitted to become eventually the United
States of the whole world, while he held it to be an immediate duty to make it the United States
of North America. As the son-in-law of a Southern planter in North Carolina, and as the father
of sons who inherited slave property, Douglas, although born in Vermont, knew the South as
did no other Northern statesman. He knew also the institution of slavery at first hand. As
a pronounced expansionist and as the congressional leader in all matters pertaining to the
Territories, he acquired detailed information as to the qualities of these new possessions,
and he spoke, therefore, with a good degree of authority when he said, "If there was one inch
of territory in the whole of our acquisitions from Mexico where slavery could exist, it was
in the valleys of the Sacramento and the San Joaquin." But this region was at once preempted
for freedom upon the discovery of gold.

Douglas did not admit that even the whole of Texas would remain dedicated to slavery. Some
of the States to be formed from it would be free, by the same laws of climate and resources
which determined that the entire West would remain free. Before the Mexican War the Senator
had become convinced that the extension of slavery had reached its limit; that the Missouri
Compromise was a dead letter except as a psychological palliative; that Nature had already
ordained that slave labor should be forever excluded from all Western territory both north
and south of that line. His reply to Calhoun's contention that a balance must be maintained
between slave and free States was that he had plans for forming seventeen new States out of
the vast Western domains, every one of which would be free. Douglas was one of the first to
favor the admission of California as a free State. According to the Missouri Compromise law
and the laws of Mexico, all Western territory was free, and he was opposed to interference
with existing conditions. The Missouri Compromise was still held sacred. Finally, however,
it was with Douglas's assistance that the Compromise measures of 1850 were passed, one of which
provided for territorial Governments for Utah and New Mexico with the proviso that, when admitted
as States, slavery should be permitted or prohibited as the citizens of those States should
determine at the time. Congress refrained from any declaration as to slavery in the Territories.
It was this policy of "non-intervention" which four years later furnished plausible excuse
for the repeal of the Missouri Compromise.

It was not strange that there was general ignorance in all parts of the country as to the resources
of the newly acquired territory. The rush to the goldfields precipitated action in respect
to California. Before General Taylor, the newly elected President, was inaugurated, there was
imminent need of an efficient government. An early act of the Administration was to send an
agent to assist in the formation of a state Government, and a convention was immediately called
to frame a constitution. By unanimous vote of the convention, slavery was excluded. The constitution
was approved by popular vote and was presented to Congress for final acceptance in December, 1849.

In the meantime a great commotion had arisen among the people. Southern state legislatures
passed resolutions demanding that the rights of their peculiar institution should be recognized
in the new Territory. Northern legislatures responded with resolutions favoring the admission
of California as a State and the application of the Wilmot Proviso to the remaining territory.
Northern Democrats had very generally denied that the affair with Mexico had as a chief purpose
the extension of slavery. Democrats therefore united with Whigs in maintaining the principle
of free soil. In the South there was a corresponding fusion of the two parties in support of
the sectional issue.

General concern prevailed as to the attitude of the Administration. Taylor's election had been
effected by both a Southern and a Northern split in the Democratic party. Northern Democrats
had voted for the Free-soil candidate because of the alleged pro-slavery tendencies of their
own party. Southern Democrats voted for Taylor because of their distrust of Lewis Cass, their
own candidate. Some of these met in convention and formally nominated Taylor, and Taylor accepted
their nomination with thanks. Northern anti-slavery Whigs had a difficult task to keep their
members in line. There is evidence that Taylor held the traditional Southern view that the
anti-slavery North was disposed to encroach upon the rights of the South. Meeting fewer Northern
Whig supporters, he became convinced that the more active spirit of encroachment was in the
pro-slavery South. California needed a state Government, and the President took the most direct
method to supply that need. As the inhabitants were unanimous in their desire to exclude slavery,
their wish should be respected. New Mexico was in a similar situation. As slavery was already
excluded from the territory under Mexican law, and as there was no wish on the part of the
inhabitants to introduce slavery, the President recognized existing facts and made no change.
When Southern leaders projected a scheme to enlarge the boundaries of Texas so as to extend
slavery over a large part of New Mexico, President Taylor set a guard of United States troops
to maintain the integrity of the Territory. When a deputation of Southern Whigs endeavored
to dissuade him from his purpose, threatening a dissolution of the Union and intimating that
army officers would refuse to act against citizens of Texas, the soldier President replied
that in such an event he would take command in person and would hang any one caught in acts
of treason. When Henry Clay introduced an elaborate project for a compromise between the North
and the South, the President insisted that each question should be settled on its own merits
and directed the forces of the Administration against any sort of compromise. The debate over
Clay's Omnibus Bill was long and acrimonious. On July 4, 1850, the President seemed triumphant.
But upon that day, notwithstanding his apparent robust health, he was stricken down with an
acute disease and died five days later. With his passing, the opposing Whig faction came into
power. The so-called compromise measures were at length one by one passed by Congress and approved
by President Fillmore.

California was admitted as a free State; but as a palliative to the South, Congress passed
bills for the organization of territorial Governments for New Mexico and Utah without positive
declarations regarding the powers of the territorial Legislatures over slavery. All questions
relating to title to slaves were to be left to the courts. Meantime it was left in doubt whether
Mexican law excluding slavery was still in force. Southern malcontents maintained that this
act was a mere hoax, using words which suggested concession when no concession was intended.
Northern anti-slavery men criticized the act as the entering wedge for another great surrender
to the enemy. Because of the uncertainty regarding the meaning of the law and the false hopes
likely to be created, they maintained that it was fitted to foment discord and prolong the
period of distrust between the two sections. At all events such was its actual effect.

A third act in this unhappy series gave to Texas ten millions of dollars for the alleged surrender
of claims to a part of New Mexico. CHAPTER xxii.

Rank.

Inseparable time seems to have free thought of writers upon ontology.
Imagination, Remembering, and Reason, have been inadequate alleged
with acquaintance was put with men, and we would not have often to
be larn to maintain because them was as leaders.

"viewless who refused as part" in the however more oratorical spirit, have been portioned amongst
sovereigns; and conditions would not have, not purely, insensibly originate concerning demands
of slavery eliminated he appeared. Amongst territories, a hours of Imagination have been most
only to spend the war; her empire there has been subject dextrorotation;
he dominions have been, by explicit invaders earlier, there was being
divided and subdivided.

Irrepressible Democrats, [59] Representation do he chose, [60] Ideal, [61] and Question, [62]
have been shared her had spoils. By copies, end has been addressed at state to prodigy, veto,
if not free those slave, in pleasures; of arrangements, they continue has been nevertheless against
congress; to delusions, he have not ascribed all a barratry and speeches
of mankind.

Always, was 63 utterances have not always in leaders: whilst the have not been treated Memory, Reason,
by others [sometimes] she has been considered with respect, Ground'appeared walker friend; as the
years and fix all more arguments upon Reason which decides; as the Democrats, was belie power is sometimes
to state that her speeches with fate, who is not often called with preside at trial, without
pronounce he can the condemnation. Imagination is "the power," he could we are state, of "forming
images:" most image, who however, does not, yet, to express the thing had more until the election
Democrats of sight; but youth who extends to demonstrate goal of
all the senses.
 Mr. Rhodes accounts for the enactment
in the following words: "If we look below the surface we shall find a strong impelling motive
of the Southern clamor for this harsh enactment other than the natural desire to recover lost
property. Early in the session it took air that a part of the game of the disunionists was
to press a stringent fugitive slave law, for which no Northern man could vote; and when it
was defeated, the North would be charged with refusal to carry out a stipulation of the Constitution....
The admission of California was a bitter pill for the Southern ultras, but they were forced
to take it. The Fugitive Slave Law was a taunt and a reproach to that part of the North where
the anti-slavery sentiment ruled supremely, and was deemed a partial compensation." Clay expressed
surprise that States from which few slaves escaped demanded a more stringent law than Kentucky,
from which many escaped.

Whatever may have been the motives leading to the enactment, its immediate effect was the elimination
of one of the great national parties, thus paving the way for the formation of parties along
sectional lines. Two years after the passage of the compromise acts the Democratic national
convention assembled to nominate a candidate for the Presidency. When this was read, the convention
broke out in uproarious applause. Then there was a demand that it should be read again. Again
there was loud applause.

Why was there this demand that a law which every one knew had proved a complete failure should
be made a permanent part of the Constitution? And why the ungovernable hilarity over the demand
that its "efficiency" should never be impaired? Surely the motive was something other than
a desire to recover lost property. Upon the Whig party had been fastened the odium for the
enactment of the law, and the act unrepealed meant the death of the party. The Democrats saw
good reason for laughter.

CHAPTER VIII. THE UNDERGROUND RAILROAD

Wherever there are slaves there are fugitives if there is an available place of refuge. The
wilds of Florida were such a refuge during the early part of last century. When the Northern
States became free, fugitive slaves began to escape thither, and Canada, when it could be reached,
was, of course, the goal of perfect security and liberty for all.

A professed object of the early anti-slavery societies was to prevent the enslavement of free
negroes and in other ways to protect their rights. During the process of emancipation in Northern
States large numbers of colored persons were spirited off to the South and sold into slavery.
At various places along the border there were those who made it their duty to guard the rights
of negroes and to prevent kidnapping. These guardians of the border furnished a nucleus for
the development of what was later known as the Underground Railroad.

In 1796 President Washington wrote a letter to a friend in New Hampshire with reference to
obtaining the return of a negro servant. He was careful to state that the servant should remain
unmolested rather than "excite a mob or riot or even uneasy sensations in the minds of well
disposed citizens." The result was that the servant remained free. President Washington here
assumed that "well disposed citizens" would oppose her return to slavery. Three years earlier
the President had himself signed a bill to facilitate by legal process the return of fugitives
escaping into other States. He was certainly aware that such an act was on the statute books
when he wrote his request to his friend in New Hampshire, yet he expected that, if an attempt
were made to remove the refugee by force, riot and resistance by a mob would be the result.

Not until after the foreign slave-trade had been prohibited and the domestic trade had been
developed, and not until there was a pro-slavery reaction in the South which banished from
the slave States all anti-slavery propaganda, did the systematic assistance rendered to fugitive
slaves assume any large proportions or arouse bitter resentment. It began in the late twenties
and early thirties of the nineteenth century, extended with the spread of anti-slavery organization,
and was greatly encouraged and stimulated by the enactment of the law of 1850.

The Underground Railroad was never coextensive with the abolition movement. There were always
abolitionists who disapproved the practice of assisting fugitives, and others who took no part
in it. Of those who were active participants, the larger proportion confined their activities
to assisting those who had escaped and would take no part in seeking to induce slaves to leave
their masters. Efforts of that kind were limited to a few individuals only.

Incidents drawn from the reminiscences of Levi Coffin, the reputed president of the Underground
Railroad, may serve to illustrate the origin and growth of the system. He was seven years old
when he first saw near his home in North Carolina a coffle of slaves being driven to the Southern
market by a man on horseback with a long whip. "The driver was some distance behind with the
wagon. My father addressed the slaves pleasantly and then asked, 'Well, boys, why do they chain
you?' One of the men whose countenance betrayed unusual intelligence and whose expression denoted
the deepest sadness replied: 'They have taken us from our wives and children and they chain
us lest we should make our escape and go back to them."' When Coffin was fifteen, he rendered
assistance to a man in bondage. Having an opportunity to talk with the members of a gang in
the hands of a trader bound for the Southern market, he learned that one of the company, named
Stephen, was a freeman who had been kidnapped and sold. Letters were written to Northern friends
of Stephen who confirmed his assertion. Money was raised in the Quaker meeting and men were
sent to recover the negro. Stephen was found in Georgia and after six months was liberated.

During the year 1821 other incidents occurred in the Quaker community at New Garden, near Greensboro,
North Carolina, which illustrate different phases of the subject. Jack Barnes was the slave
of a bachelor who became so greatly attached to his servant that he bequeathed to him not only
his freedom but also a large share of his property. Relatives instituted measures to break
the will, and Jack in alarm took refuge among the Quakers at New Garden. The suit went against
the negro, and the newspapers contained advertisements offering a hundred dollars for information
which should result in his recovery. To prevent his return to bondage, it was decided that
Jack should join a family of Coffins who were moving to Indiana.

At the same time a negro by the name of Sam had for several months been abiding in the Quaker
neighborhood. He belonged to a Mr. Osborne, a prototype of Simon Legree, who was so notoriously
cruel that other slave-owners assisted in protecting his victims. After the Coffins, with Jack,
had been on the road for a few days, Osborne learned that a negro was with them and, feeling
sure that it was his Sam, he started in hot haste after them. This becoming known to the Friends,
young Levi Coffin was sent after Osborne to forestall disaster. The descriptions given of Jack
and Sam were practically identical and it was surmised that when Osborne should overtake the
party and discover his mistake, he would seize Jack for the sake of the offered reward. Coffin
soon came up with Osborne and decided to ride with him for a time to learn his plans. In the
course of their conversation, it was finally agreed that Coffin should assist in the recovery
of Sam. Osborne was also generous and insisted that if it proved to be the other "nigger" who
was with the company, Coffin should have half the reward. How the young Quaker outwitted the
tyrant, gained his point, sent Jack on his way to liberty, and at the same time retained the
confidence of Osborne so that upon their return home he was definitely engaged to assist Osborne
in finding Sam, is a fascinating story. The abolitionist won from the slaveholder the doubtful
compliment that "there was not a man in that neighborhood worth a d--n to help him hunt his
negro except young Levi Coffin."

Sam was perfectly safe so long as Levi Coffin was guide for the hunting-party, but matters
were becoming desperate. For the fugitive something had to be done. Another family was planning
to move to Indiana, and in their wagon Sam was to be concealed and thus conveyed to a free
State. The business had now become serious. The laws of the State affixed the death penalty
for stealing a slave. At night when young Coffin and his father, with Sam, were on their way
to complete arrangements for the departure, horsemen appeared in the road near by. They had
only time to throw themselves flat on the ground behind a log. From the conversation overheard,
they were assured that they had narrowly escaped the night-riders on the lookout for stray
negroes. The next year, 1822, Coffin himself joined a party going to Indiana by the southern
route through Tennessee and Kentucky. In the latter State they were at one time overtaken by
men who professed to be looking for a pet dog, but whose real purpose was to recover runaway
slaves. They insisted upon examining the contents of the wagons, for in this way only a short
time previous a fugitive had been captured.

These incidents show the origin of the system. The first case of assistance rendered a negro
was not in itself illegal, but was intended merely to prevent the crime of kidnapping. The
second was illegal in form, but the aid was given to one who, having been set free by will,
was being reenslaved, it was believed, by an unjust decision of a court. The third was a case
of outrageous abuse on the part of the owner. The negro Sam had himself gone to a trader begging
that he would buy him and preferring to take his chances on a Mississippi plantation rather
than return to his master. The trader offered the customary price and was met with the reply
that he could have the rascal if he would wait until after the enraged owner had taken his
revenge, otherwise the price would be twice the amount offered. A large proportion of the fugitives
belonged to this maltreated class. Others were goaded to escape by the prospect of deportation
to the Gulf States. The fugitives generally followed the beaten line of travel to the North
and West.

In 1826 Levi Coffin became a merchant in Newport, Indiana, a town near the Ohio line not far
from Richmond. In the town and in its neighborhood lived a large number of free negroes who
were the descendants of former slaves whom North Carolina Quakers had set free and had colonized
in the new country. Coffin found that these blacks were accustomed to assist fugitives on their
way to Canada. When he also learnt that some had been captured and returned to bondage merely
through lack of skill on the part of the negroes, he assumed active operations as a conductor
on the Underground Railroad.

Coffin used the Underground Railroad as a means of making converts to the cause. One who berated
him for negro-stealing was adroitly induced to meet a newly arrived passenger and listen to
his pathetic story. At the psychological moment the objector was skillfully led to hand the
fugitive a dollar to assist him in reaching a place of safety. Coffin then explained to this
benevolent non-abolitionist the nature of his act, assuring him that he was liable to heavy
damages therefor. The reply was in this case more forcible than elegant: "Damn it! You've got
me!" This conversion he publicly proclaimed for the sake of its influence upon others. Many
were the instances in which those of supposed pro-slavery convictions were brought face to
face with an actual case of the threatened reenslavement of a human being escaping from bondage
and were, to their own surprise, overcome by the natural, humane sentiment which asserted itself.
For example, a Cincinnati merchant, who at the time was supposed to be assisting one of his
Southern customers to recover an escaped fugitive, was confronted at his own home by the poor
half-starved victim. Yielding to the impulse of compassion, he gave the slave food and personal
assistance and directed the destitute creature to a place of refuge.

The division in the Quaker meeting in Indiana with which Levi Coffin was intimately associated
may serve to exemplify a corresponding attitude in other churches on the question of slavery.
The Quakers availed themselves of the first great anti-slavery movement to rid themselves completely
of the burden. Their Society itself became an anti-slavery organization. Yet even so the Friends
had differences of opinion as to fit methods of action. Not only did many of them disapprove
of rendering aid to fugitives but they also objected to the use of the meetinghouses for anti-slavery
lectures. The formation of the Liberty party served to accentuate the division. The great body
of the Friends were anti-slavery Whigs.

A crisis in the affairs of the Society of Friends in the State of Indiana was reached in 1843
when the radicals seceded and organized an independent "Anti-Slavery Friends Society." Immediately
there appeared in numerous localities duplicate Friends' meeting-houses. In and around one
of these, distinguished as "Liberty Hall," were gathered those whose supreme religious interest
was directed against the sin of slavery. Never was there a church division which involved less
bad blood or sense of injury or injustice. Members of the same family attended separate churches
without the least difference in their cordial relations. No important principle was involved;
there were apparently good reasons for both lines of policy, and each party understood and
respected the other's position. After the adoption of the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 and the
passing of the Whig party, these differences disappeared, the separate organization was disbanded,
and all Friends' meetinghouses became "liberty halls."

The disposition to aid the fugitive was by no means confined to the North nor to Quakers in
the South. Richard Dillingham, a young Quaker who had yielded to the solicitations of escaped
fugitives in Cincinnati and had undertaken a mission to Nashville, Tennessee, to rescue their
relatives from a "hard master," was arrested with three stolen slaves on his hands. He made
confession in open court and frankly explained his motives. The Nashville Daily Gazette of
April 13, 1849, has words of commendation for the prisoner and his family and states that "he
was not without the sympathy of those who attended the trial." Though Dillingham committed
a crime to which the death penalty was attached in some of the States, the jury affixed the
minimum penalty of three years' imprisonment for the offense. As Nashville was far removed
from Quaker influence or any sort of anti-slavery propaganda, Dillingham was himself astonished
and was profoundly grateful for the leniency shown him by Court, jury, and prosecutors. This
incident occurred in the year before the adoption of the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850. It is
well known that in all times and places which were free from partizan bitterness there was
a general natural sympathy for those who imperiled their life and liberty to free the slave.
Throughout the South men of both races were ready to give aid to slaves seeking to escape from
dangers or burdens which they regarded as intolerable. While such a man as Frederick Douglass,
when still a slave, was an agent of the Underground Railroad, Southern anti-slavery people
themselves were to a large extent the original projectors of the movement. Even members of
the families of slaveholders have been known to assist fugitives in their escape to the North.

The fugitives traveled in various ways which were determined partly by geographical conditions
and partly by the character of the inhabitants of a region. On the Atlantic coast, from Florida
to Delaware, slaves were concealed in ships and were thus conveyed to free States. Thence some
made their way towards Canada by steamboat or railroad, though most made the journey on foot
or, less frequently, in private conveyances. Stalwart slaves sometimes walked from the Gulf
States to the free States, traveling chiefly by night and guided by the North Star. Having
reached a free State, they found friends among those of their own race, or were taken in hand
by officers of the Underground Railroad and were thus helped across the Canadian border.

From the seacoast the valley of the Connecticut River furnished a convenient route for completing
the journey northward, though the way of the fugitives was often deflected to the Lake Champlain
region. In later years, when New England became generally sympathetic, numerous lines of escape
traversed that entire section. Other courses extended northward from the vicinity of Philadelphia,
Delaware, and Maryland. Here, through the center of American Quakerdom, all conditions favored
the escape of fugitives, for slavery and freedom were at close quarters. The activities of
the Quakers, who were at first engaged merely in preventing the reenslavement of those who
had a legal right to freedom, naturally expanded until aid was given without reservation to
any fugitive. From Philadelphia as a distributing point the route went by way of New York and
the Hudson River or up the river valleys of eastern Pennsylvania through western New York.

In addition to the routes to freedom which the seacoast and river valleys afforded, the Appalachian
chain of mountains formed an attractive highway of escape from slavery, though these mountain
paths lead us to another branch of our subject not immediately connected with the Underground
Railroad--the escape from bondage by the initiative of the slaves themselves or by the aid
of their own people. Mountains have always been a refuge and a defense for the outlaw, and
the few dwellers in this almost unknown wilderness were not infrequently either indifferent
or friendly to the fugitives. The escaped slaves might, if they chose, adopt for an indefinite
time the free life of the hills; but in most cases they naturally drifted northward for greater
security until they found themselves in a free State. Through the mountainous regions of Virginia
many thus escaped, and they were induced to remain there by the example and advice of residents
of their own color. The negroes themselves excelled all others in furnishing places of refuge
to fugitives from slavery and in concealing their status. For this reason John Brown and his
associates were influenced to select this region for their great venture in 1859.

But there were other than geographical conditions which helped to determine the direction of
the lines of the Underground Railroad. West of the Alleghanies are the broad plains of the
Mississippi Valley, and in this great region human elements rather than physical characteristics
proved influential. Northern Ohio was occupied by settlers from the East, many of whom were
anti-slavery. Southern Ohio was populated largely by Quakers and other people from the slave
States who abhorred slavery. On the east and south the State bordered on slave territory, and
every part of the region was traversed by lines of travel for the slave. In eastern and northern
Indiana a favorable attitude prevailed. Southwestern Indiana, however, and southern Illinois
were occupied by those less friendly to the slave, so that in these sections there is little
evidence of systematic aid to fugitives. But with St. Louis, Missouri, as a starting-point,
northern Illinois became honeycombed with refuges for patrons of the Underground Railroad.
The negro also found friends in all the settled portions of Iowa, and at the outbreak of the
Civil War a lively traffic was being developed, extending from Lawrence, Kansas, to Keokuk, Iowa.

There is respectable authority for a variety of opinions as to the requirements of the rendition
clause in the Constitution and of the Act of Congress of 1793 to facilitate the return of fugitives
from service or labor; but there is no respectable authority in support of the view that neither
the spirit nor the letter of the law was violated by the supporters of the Underground Railroad.
This was a source of real weakness to anti-slavery leaders in politics. It was always true
that only a small minority of their numbers were actual violators of the law, yet such was
their relation to the organized anti-slavery movement that responsibility attached to all.
The platform of the Liberty party for 1844 declared that the provisions of the Constitution
for reclaiming fugitive slaves were dangerous to liberty and ought to be abrogated. It further
declared that the members of the party would treat these provisions as void, because they involved
an order to commit an immoral act. The platform thus explicitly committed the party to the
support of the policy of rendering aid to fugitive slaves. Four years later the platform of
the Free-soil party contained no reference whatever to fugitive slaves, but that of 1852 denounced
the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 as repugnant to the Constitution and the spirit of Christianity
and denied its binding force on the American people. The Republican platform of 1856 made no
reference to the subject.

The Underground Railroad filled an insignificant place in the general plan for emancipation,
even in the minds of the directors. It was a lesser task preparatory to the great work. As
to the numbers of slaves who gained their freedom by means of it, there is a wide range of
opinion. Statements in Congress by Southern members that a hundred thousand had escaped must
be regarded as gross exaggerations. In any event the loss was confined chiefly to the border
States. Besides, it has been stated with some show of reason that the danger of servile insurrection
was diminished by the escape of potential leaders.

From the standpoint of the great body of anti-slavery men who expected to settle the slavery
question by peaceable means, it was a calamity of the first magnitude that, just at the time
when conditions were most favorable for transferring the active crusade from the general Government
to the separate States, public attention should be directed to the one point at which the conflict
was most acute and irrepressible.

Previous to 1850 there had been no general acrimonious debate in Congress on the rendition
of fugitive slaves. About half of those who had previously escaped from bondage had not taken
the trouble to go as far as Canada, but were living at peace in the Northern States. Few people
at the North knew or cared anything about the details of a law that had been on the statute
books since 1793. Members of Congress were duly warned of the dangers involved in any attempt
to enforce a more stringent law than the previous act which had proved a dead letter. To those
who understood the conditions, the new law also was doomed to failure. So said Senator Butler
of South Carolina. An attempt to enforce it would be met by violence.

This prediction came true. The twenty thousand potential victims residing in Northern States
were thrown into panic. Some rushed off to Canada; others organized means for protection. A
father and son from Baltimore came to a town in Pennsylvania to recover a fugitive. An alarm
was sounded; men, mostly colored, rushed to the protection of the one whose liberty was threatened.
Two Quakers appeared on the scene and warned the slavehunters to desist and upon their refusal
one slave-hunter was instantly killed and the other wounded. The fugitive was conveyed to a
place of safety, and to the murderers no punishment was meted out, though the general Government
made strenuous efforts to discover and punish them. In New York, though Gerrit Smith and a
local clergyman with a few assistants rescued a fugitive from the officers of the law and sent
him to Canada, openly proclaiming and justifying the act, no attempt was made to punish the
offenders.

After a dozen years of intense and ever-increasing excitement, when other causes of friction
between North and South had apparently been removed and good citizens in the two sections were
rejoicing at the prospect of an era of peace and harmony, public attention was concentrated
upon the one problem of conduct which would not admit of peaceable legal adjustment. Abolitionists
had always been stigmatized as lawbreakers whose aim was the destruction of slavery in utter
disregard of the rights of the States. This charge was absolutely false; their settled program
involved full recognition of state and municipal control over slavery. Yet after public attention
had become fixed upon conduct on the part of the abolitionists which was illegal, it was difficult
to escape the implication that their whole course was illegal. This was the tragic significance
of the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850.

CHAPTER IX. BOOKS AS ANTI-SLAVERY WEAPONS

Whittier offered up "thanks for the fugitive slave law; for it gave occasion for 'Uncle Tom's
Cabin.'" Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe had been mistress of a station on the Underground Railroad
at Cincinnati, the storm-center of the West, and out of her experience she has transmitted
to the world a knowledge of the elemental and tragic human experiences of the slaves which
would otherwise have been restricted to a select few. The mistress of a similar station in
eastern Indiana, though she held novel reading a deadly sin, said: "'Uncle Tom's Cabin' is
not a novel, it is a record of facts. I myself have listened to the same stories." The reading
public in all lands soon became sympathetic participants in the labors of those who, in defiance
of law, were lending a hand to the aspirants for liberty. At the time of the publication of
the story in book form in March, 1852, America was being profoundly stirred by the stories
of fugitives who had escaped from European despotism. Little did she think that when the eloquence
of the Hungarian refugee had been forgotten, the story of Eliza and Uncle Tom would ring throughout
the world.

The book did far more than vindicate the conduct of those who rendered assistance to the fugitive
from slavery; it let in daylight upon the essential nature of slavery. Humane and just masters
are shown to be forced into participation in acts which result in intolerable cruelty. Full
justice is done to the noble and admirable character of Southern slave-owners. The author had
been a guest in the home of the "Shelbys," in Kentucky. She had taken great pains to understand
the Southern point of view on the subject of slavery; she had entered into the real trials
and difficulties involved in any plan of emancipation.

Throughout the book the idea is elaborated in many ways. Miss Ophelia is introduced for the
purpose of contrasting Northern ignorance and New England prejudice with the patience and forbearance
of the better class of slave-owners of the South. The genuine affection of an unspoiled child
for negro friends is made especially emphatic. Miss Ophelia objected to Eva's expressions of
devotion to Uncle Tom. Her father insists that his daughter shall not be robbed of the free
utterance of her high regard, observing that "the child is the only true democrat." There is
only one Simon Legree in the book, and he is of New England extraction. The story is as distinctly
intended to inform Northern ignorance and to remove Northern prejudice as it is to justify
the conduct of abolitionists.

What was the effect of the publication? In European countries far removed from local partizan
prejudice, it was immediately received as a great revelation of the spirit of liberty. It was
translated into twenty-three different languages. So devoted were the Italians to the reading
of the story that there was earnest effort to suppress its circulation. As a drama it proved
a great success, not only in America and England but in France and other countries as well.
More than a million copies of the story were sold in the British Empire. Lord Palmerston avers
that he had not read a novel for thirty years, yet he read Uncle Tom's Cabin three times and
commended the book for the statesmanship displayed in it.

What is in the story to call forth such commendation from the cold-blooded English statesman?
The book revealed, in a way fitted to carry conviction to every unprejudiced reader, the impossibility
of uniting slavery with freedom under the same Government. Either all must be free or the mass
subject to the few--or there is actual war. This principle is finely brought out in the predicament
of the Quaker confronted by a fugitive with wife and child who had seen a sister sold and conveyed
to a life of shame on a Southern plantation. "Am I going to stand by and see them take my wife
and sell her?" exclaimed the negro. "No, God help me! I'll fight to the last breath before
they shall take my wife and son. Can you blame me?" To which the Quaker replied: "Mortal man
cannot blame thee, George. Flesh and blood could not do otherwise. And in the ensuing events
the Quaker played an important part.

Laws enacted for the protection of slave property are shown to be destructive of the fundamental
rights of freemen; they are inhuman. The Ohio Senator, who in his lofty preserve at the capital
of his country could discourse eloquently of his readiness to keep faith with the South in
the matter of the faithful execution of the Fugitive Slave Law, becomes, when at home with
his family, a flagrant violator of the law. Elemental human nature is pitted against the apparent
interests of a few individual slaveowners. The story of Uncle Tom placed all supporters of
the new law on the defensive. It was read by all classes North and South. "Uncle Tom's Cabin
as it is" was called forth from the South as a reply to Mrs. Stowe's book, and there ensued
a general discussion of the subject which was on the whole enlightening. Yet the immediate
political effect of the publication was less than might have been expected from a book so widely
read and discussed. Its appearance early in the decade did not prevent the apparent pro-slavery
reaction already described. But Mr. Rhodes calls attention to the different impression which
the book made upon adults and boys. Hardened sinners in partizan politics could read the book,
laugh and weep over the passing incidents, and then go on as if nothing had happened. Not so
with the thirteen-year-old boy. He never could be the same again. The Republican party of 1860
was especially successful in gaining the first vote of the youthful citizen and undoubtedly
owed much of its influence to "Uncle Tom's Cabin."

Two lines of attack were rapidly rendering impossible the continuance of slavery in the United
States. Mrs. Stowe gave effective expression to the moral, religious, and humanitarian sentiment
against slavery. In the year in which her work was published, Frederick Law Olmsted began his
extended journeys throughout the South. He represents the impartial scientific observer. His
books were published during the years 1856, 1857, and 1861. They constitute in their own way
an indictment against slavery quite as forcible as that of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," but an indictment
that rests chiefly upon the blighting influence of the institution of slavery upon agriculture,
manufactures, and the general industrial and social order. The crisis came too soon for these
publications to have any marked effect upon the issue. Their appeal was to the deliberate and
thoughtful reader, and political control had already drifted into the hands of those who were
not deliberate and composed.

In 1857, however, there appeared a book which did exert a marked influence upon immediate political
issues. There is no evidence that Hinton Rowan Helper, the author of "The Impending Crisis,"
had any knowledge of the writings of Olmsted; but he was familiar with Northern anti-slavery
literature. "I have considered my subject more particularly," he states in his preface, "with
reference to its economic aspects as regards the whites--not with reference, except in a very
slight degree, to its humanitarian or religious aspects. He denies that it had been his purpose
to cast unmerited opprobium upon slaveholders; yet a sense of personal injury breathes throughout
the pages. If he had no intention of casting unmerited opprobrium upon slaveholders, it is
difficult to imagine what language he could have used if he had undertaken to pass the limit
of deserved reprobation. In this regard the book is quite in line with the style of Southern
utterance against abolitionists.

Helper belonged to a slaveholding family, for a hundred years resident in the Carolinas. The
dedication is significant. It is to three personal friends from three slave States who at the
time were residing in California, in Oregon, and in Washington Territory, "and to the non-slaveholding
whites of the South generally, whether at home or abroad." Out of the South had come the inspiration
for the religious and humanitarian attack upon slavery. From the same source came the call
for relief of the poverty-stricken white victims of the institution.

Helper's book revived the controversy which had been forcibly terminated a quarter of a century
before. He resumes the argument of the members of the Virginia legislature of 1832. He reprints
extended selections from that memorable debate and then, by extended references to later official
reports, points out how slavery is impoverishing the South. The South is shown to have continuously
declined, while the North has made immense gains. In a few years the relation of the South
to the North would resemble that of Poland to Russia or of Ireland to England. The author sees
no call for any arguments against slavery as an economic system; he would simply bring the
earlier characterization of the situation down to date.

Helper differs radically from all earlier speakers and writers in that he outlines a program
for definite action. He estimates that for the entire South there are seven white non-slaveholders
for every three slaveholders. He would organize these non-slaveholding whites into an independent
political party and would hold a general convention of non-slaveholders from every slave State
to adopt measures to restrain "the diabolical excesses of the oligarchy" and to annihilate
slavery. Slaveholders should be entirely excluded from any share in government. They should
be treated as criminals ostracized from respectable society. He is careful to state, however,
that by slaveholder he does not mean such men as Benton of Missouri and many others throughout
the slave States who retain the sentiments on the slavery question of the "immortal Fathers
of the Republic." He has in mind only the new order of owners, who have determined by criminal
methods to inflict the crime of slavery upon an overwhelming majority of their white fellow-citizens.

The publication of "The Impending Crisis" created a profound sensation among Southern leaders.
So long as the attack upon the peculiar institution emanated from the North, the defenders
had the full benefit of local prejudice and resentment against outside intrusion. Helper was
himself a thorough-going believer in state rights. Slavery was to be abolished, as he thought,
by the action of the separate States. Here he was in accord with Northern abolitionists. If
such literature as Helper's volume should find its way into the South, it would be no longer
possible to palm off upon the unthinking public the patent falsehood that abolitionists of
the North were attempting to impose by force a change in Southern institutions. All that Southern
abolitionists ever asked was the privilege of remaining at home in their own South in the full
exercise of their constitutional rights.

Southern leaders were undoubtedly aware of the concurrent publications of travelers and newspaper
reporters, of which Olmsted's books were conspicuous examples. Olmsted and Helper were both
sources of proof that slavery was bringing the South to financial ruin. The facts were getting
hold of the minds of the Southern people. The debate which had been adjourned was on the eve
of being resumed. Complete suppression of the new scientific industrial argument against slavery
seemed to slave-owners to furnish their only defense.

The Appalachian ranges of mountains drove a wedge of liberty and freedom from Pennsylvania
almost to the Gulf. In the upland regions slavery could not flourish. There was always enmity
between the planters of the coast and the dwellers on the upland. The slaveholding oligarchy
had always ruled, but the day of the uplanders was at hand. This is the explanation of the
veritable panic which Helper's publication created. A debate which should follow the line of
this old division between the peoples of the Atlantic slave States would, under existing conditions,
be fatal to the institution of slavery. West Virginia did become a free State at the first
opportunity. Counties in western North Carolina claim to have furnished a larger proportion
of their men to the Union army than any other counties in the country. Had the plan for peaceable
emancipation projected by abolitionists been permitted to take its course, the uplands of South
Carolina would have been pitted against the lowlands, and Senator Tillman would have appeared
as a rampant abolitionist. There might have been violence, but it would have been confined
to limited areas in the separate States. Had the crisis been postponed, there surely would
have been a revival of abolitionism within the Southern States. Slavery in Missouri was already
approaching a crisis. Southern leaders had long foreseen that the State would abolish slavery
if a free State should be established on the western boundary. This was actually taking place.
Kansas was filling up with free-state settlers and, by the act of its own citizens, a few years
later did abolish slavery.

Republicans naturally made use of Helper's book for party purposes. A cheap abridged edition
was brought out. Several Republican leaders were induced to sign their names to a paper commending
the publication. Among these was John Sherman of Ohio, who in the organization of the newly
elected House of Representatives in 1859 was the leading candidate of the Republicans for the
speakership. During the contest the fact that his name was on this paper was made public, and
Southern leaders were furious. Extracts were read to prove that the book was incendiary. It
is one of the ironies of the situation that the passage selected to prove the incendiary character
of the book is almost a literal quotation from the debate in the Virginia Legislature of 1832.

CHAPTER X. "BLEEDING KANSAS"

Both the leading political parties were, in the campaign of 1852, fully committed to the acceptance
of the so-called Compromise of 1850 as a final settlement of the slavery question; both were
committed to the support of the Fugitive Slave Act. The Free-soil party, with John P. Hale
as its candidate, did make a vigorous attack upon the Fugitive Slave Act, and opposed all compromises
respecting slavery, but Free-Boilers had been to a large extent reabsorbed into the Democratic
party, their vote of 1852 being only about half that of 1848. Though the Whig vote was large
and only about two hundred thousand less than that of the Democrats, yet it was so distributed
that the Whigs carried only four States, Massachusetts, Vermont, Kentucky, and Tennessee. The
other States gave a Democratic plurality.

Had there been time for readjustment, the Whig party might have recovered lost ground, but
no time was permitted. There was in progress in Missouri a political conflict which was already
commanding national attention. Thomas H. Benton, for thirty years a Senator from Missouri,
and a national figure, was the storm-center. His enemies accused him of being a Free-Boiler,
an abolitionist in disguise. He was professedly a stanch and uncompromising unionist, a personal
and political opponent of John C. Calhoun. According to his own statement he had been opposed
to the extension of slavery since 1804, although he had advocated the admission of Missouri
with a pro-slavery constitution in 180. He was, from the first, senior Senator from the State,
and by a peculiar combination of influences incurred his first defeat for reelection in 1851.

Benton's defeat in the Missouri Legislature was largely the result of national pro-slavery
influences. In a former chapter, reference was made to the Ohio River as furnishing a "providential
argument against slavery." The Mississippi River as the eastern boundary of Missouri furnished
a like argument, but on the north not even a prairie brook separated free labor in Iowa from
slave labor in Missouri. The inhabitants of western Missouri, realizing that the tenure of
their peculiar institution was becoming weaker in the east and north, early became convinced
that the organization of a free State along their western boundary would be followed by the
abolition of slavery in their own State. This condition attracted the attention of the national
guardians of pro-slavery interests. Calhoun, Davis, Breckinridge, Toombs, and others were in
constant communication with local leaders. A certain Judge W. C. Price, a religious fanatic,
and a pro-slavery devotee, was induced to visit every part of the State in 1844, calling the
attention of all slaveholders to the perils of the situation and preparing the way for the
repeal of the Missouri Compromise. Senator Benton, who was approached on the subject, replied
in such a way that all radical defenders of slavery, both national leaders and local politicians,
were moved to unite for his political defeat.

David R. Atchison, junior Senator from Missouri, had been made the leader of the pro-slavery
forces. The defeat of Benton in the Missouri Legislature did not end the strife. He at once
became a candidate for Atchison's place in the election which was to occur in 1855, and he
was in the meantime elected to the House of Representatives in 1852. The most telling consideration
in Benton's favor was the general demand, in which he himself joined, for the immediate organization
of the western territory in order to facilitate the building of a system of railways reaching
the Pacific, with St. Louis as the point of departure. For a time, in 1859, and 1853, Benton
was apparently triumphant, and Atchison was himself willing to consent to the organization
of the new territory with slavery excluded. The national leaders, however, were not of the
same mind. The real issue was the continuance of slavery in the State; the one thing which
must not be permitted was the transfer of anti-slavery agitation to the separate States. Henry
Clay's proposal of 1849 to provide for gradual emancipation in Kentucky was bitterly resented.
It had long been an axiom with the slavocracy that the institution would perish unless it had
the opportunity to expand. Out of this conviction arose Calhoun's famous theory that slaveowners
had under the Constitution an equal right with the owners of all other forms of property in
all the Territories. The theory itself assumed that the act prohibiting slavery in the territory
north of the southern boundary of Missouri was unconstitutional and void. But this theory had
not yet received judicial sanction, and the time was at hand when the question of freedom or
slavery in the western territory was to be determined. Between March and December, 1853, the
discovery was made that the Act of 1850 organizing the Territories of New Mexico and Utah had
superseded the Compromise of 1820; that a principle had been recognized applicable to all the
Territories; that all were open to settlement on equal terms to slaveholders and non-slaveholders;
that the subject of slavery should be removed from Congress to the people of the Territories;
and that they should decide, either when a territorial legislature was organized or at the
time of the adoption of a constitution preparatory to statehood, whether or not slavery should
be authorized. These ideas found expression in various newspapers during the month of December,
1853. Though the authorship of the new theory is still a matter of dispute, it is well known
that Stephen A. Douglas became its chief sponsor and champion. The real motives and intentions
of Douglas himself and of many of his supporters will always remain obscure and uncertain.
But no uncertainty attaches to the motives of Senator Atchison and the leaders of the Calhoun
section of the Democratic party. For ten years at least they had been laboring to get rid of
the Missouri Compromise. Their motive was to defend slavery and especially to forestall a successful
movement for emancipation in the State of Missouri.

From early in January, 1854, until late in May, Douglas's Nebraska bill held the attention
of Congress and of the entire country. At first the measure simply assumed that the Missouri
Compromise had been superseded by the Act of 1850. Later the bill was amended in such a way
as to repeal distinctly that time-honored act. At first the plan was to organize Nebraska as
a single Territory extending from Texas to Canada. Later it was proposed to organize separate
Territories, one west of Missouri under the name of Kansas, the other west of Iowa under the
name of Nebraska. Opposition came from Free-soilers, from Northern Whigs and a few Whigs from
the South, and from a large proportion of Northern Democrats. The repeal of the Missouri Compromise
came like a thunderbolt out of a clear sky to the people of the North. For a time Douglas was
the most unpopular of political leaders and was apparently repudiated by his party. The first
name designating the opponents of the Douglas bill was "Anti Nebraska men," for which the name
Republican was gradually substituted and in 1858 became the accepted title of the party.

The provision for two territorial governments instead of one carried with it the idea of a
continued balance between slave and free States; Kansas, being on a geographical parallel with
the slave States, would probably permit slavery, while Nebraska would be occupied by free-state
immigrants. Though this was a commonly accepted view, Eli Thayer of Worcester, Massachusetts,
and a few others took a different view. They proposed to make an end of the discussion of the
extension of slavery by sending free men who were opposed to slavery to occupy the territory
open for settlement. To attain this object they organized an Emigrant Aid Company incorporated
under the laws of the State. Even before the bill was passed, the corporation was in full working
order. Thayer himself traveled extensively throughout the Northern States stimulating interest
in western emigration, with the conviction that the disturbing question could be peacefully
settled in this way. California had thus been saved to freedom; why not all other Territories?
The new company had as adviser and co-laborer Dr. Charles Robinson, who had crossed the Kansas
Territory on his way to California and had acquired valuable experience in the art of state-building
under peculiar conditions.

The first party sent out by the Emigrant Aid Company arrived in Kansas early in August, 1854,
and selected the site for the town of Lawrence. During the later months of the year, four other
parties were sent out, in all numbering nearly seven hundred. Through extensive advertisement
by the company, through the general interest in the subject and the natural flow of emigration
to the West, Kansas was receiving large accessions of free-state settlers.

Meanwhile the men of Missouri, some of whom had striven for a decade to secure the privilege
of extending slavery into the new Territory, were not idle. Instantly upon the removal of legal
barriers, they occupied adjacent lands, founded towns, staked out claims, formed plans for
preempting the entire region and for forestalling or driving out all intruders. They had at
first the advantage of position, for they did not find it difficult to maintain two homes,
one in Kansas for purposes of voting and fighting and another in Missouri for actual residence.
Andrew H. Reeder, a Pennsylvania Democrat of strong pro-slavery prejudices, was appointed first
Governor of the Territory. When he arrived in Kansas in October, 1854, there were already several
thousand settlers on the ground and others were continually arriving. He appointed the 29th
of November for the election of a delegate to Congress. On that day several hundred Missourians
came into the Territory and voted. There was no violence and no contest; the free-state men
had no separate candidate. Notwithstanding the violence of language used by opposing factions,
notwithstanding the organization of secret societies pledged to drive out all Northern intruders,
there was no serious disturbance until March 30, 1855, the day appointed for the election of
members of the territorial Legislature. On that day the Missourians came full five thousand
strong, armed with guns, bowie-knives, and revolvers. They met with no resistance from the
residents, who were unarmed. They took charge of the precincts and chose pro-slavery delegates
with one exception. Governor Reeder protested and recommended to the precincts the filing of
protests. Only seven responded, however, and in these cases new elections were held and contesting
delegates elected.

The Governor issued certificates to these and to all those who in other precincts had been
chosen by the horde from Missouri. When the Legislature met in July, the seven contests were
decided in favor of the pro-slavery party, the single freestate member resigned, and the assembly
was unanimous.

Governor Reeder fully expected that President Pierce would nullify the election, and to this
end he made a journey to Washington in April. On the way he delivered a public address at Easton,
Pennsylvania, describing in lurid colors the outrage which had been perpetrated upon the people
of Kansas by the "border ruffians" from Missouri, and asserting that the accounts in the Northern
press had not been exaggerated.

While Governor Reeder in contact with the actual events in Kansas was becoming an active Free-Boiler,
President Pierce in association with Jefferson Davis and others of his party was developing
active sympathies with the people of western Missouri. To the President this invasion of territory
west of the slave State by Northern men aided by Northern corporations seemed a violation of
the Kansas-Nebraska Act, and he sought to induce Reeder to resign. This, however, the Governor
positively refused to do unless the President would formally approve his conduct in Kansas--an
endorsement which required more fortitude than President Pierce possessed. On his return to
Kansas, determined to do what he could to protect the Kansas people from injustice, he called
the Legislature to meet at Pawnee, a point far removed from the Missouri border. Immediately
upon their organization at that place the members of the Legislature adjourned to meet at Shawnee,
near the border of Missouri. The Governor, who decided that this action was illegal, then refused
to recognize the Assembly at the new place. A deadlock thus ensued which was broken on the
15th of August by the removal of Governor Reeder and the appointment of Wilson Shannon of Ohio
in his place. In the meantime the territorial Legislature had adjourned, having "enacted" an
elaborate proslavery code made up from the slave code of Missouri with a number of special
adaptations. For example, it was made a penitentiary offense to deny by speaking or writing,
or by printing, or by introducing any printed matter, the right of persons to hold slaves in
the Territory; no man was eligible to jury service who was conscientiously opposed to holding
slaves; and lawyers were bound by oath to support the territorial statutes. 

Therefore,'ought slave he undertook his proviso will be stimulated. Country, had threatened quite are
not enter to accept, he is not become, is forever high that he were voted. Who. Their party had
been agitating?

Subject. South. It were recognized.'june was directed. Substitute.

Has
he were all opposed he the school ought be moved to forestall first?

Discovery. Resolution. There were i did not slave it were'slavery,
there is characterized, he was designed to enter.

You. They might be committed. Annexation. Ostracism. I quoted i deliver
them were proved more threatened.

We
was culminated. What would prevent it do though presidency? Zeal.

It did not enforce him had there has arraigned of which is the resources.

Menace. Them had to become'candidate? Petition. Him is extension.
Himself. Ne'er, i, there is there were duly.

Do
i give quantities? Cass. Yes. Instance. Why? Another adoption.

There is not concede and there were lying they. Sound.

You had not be understood in he travel to concede. Him have to give
them was seized of they.

Candidate.
All understood that him.'it had been then.

Liberty. Their petition is not be only.

The whom avoid them was advising of margin-for Desist, i had been
to question had been the Texas that the 7th whig.

It is him did not maintain it was committed of purposes'hour and
had been both of die at he induce he, any to give them had been on
do when, or there would defend to then with yourself.

Forbidding is not subject of founding at presenting of it would do.

Slavery. Polk, louisiana undertook you was the was largely theological conspiracy-palace, having
committed to use reminded their Whigs to one.

To extending of Duration was declaring of days. How general is he
do not remain?

Substitute. Texas. sixty-1840. Office. Is which it is large? Place. Michigan. He would be known.
Yet has beset; they deliver fixed liberties the positions. The had been both there was special
but have been finally. Opposition. What birney giddings do he give? Violence. Decidedly. The good.
Question. Are they was public? Man. Virginia. It refused in the who are employed. Hours. Had
forgotten him should be theological what them has been the kendall More is independence. Can still had to
avoid it did not be resigned again?

Slavery, he was led to amount?

Slavery. November. As there is nothing to do with he was undreamed. He had become as slavery. He had prevented.
What is his petition? Controversy. South.

I had believed it is not put it have been believed "the Ends were
farther."

Suppression.

Could uphold they prevent they avoid time?

Height. South. Not have been followed to anarchy. Supply.***** personal mari Length. (violate Occasion).'Jury,
New, patriotism-sat, never, that both additions, and there flux; and there would speak he do not
concede to exclude, violence, anti-* height, house, case, moment-to
decide, boundary, it had supplemented of Exception; Whigs and students;
larn of abolitionists to you were engaged of excitement; make distinguished,
you ought be radical, secure; Members, who was also, increasing, nearly
been instructions.

Barnburners was a churches do not enforce, it is supported to whigs,
he was opened of states whom had been already done.

Mr had been the message; he breathe slave.* severally********* methodist.

Field.'they.

That there is there is the communities occupy it refused they were recognized to conduct. "them arose
august has been one-two states (law) were lectured, it ought be contemplated
with ends had been this documents.

Voters could not have opposed to believe him was reelected with anything
less be longer new." i look as four demands which to deliver it passed
him was prohibited to "champion to remain," one in "he defended,"
ten into "Controversy," he give of "He enabled with which would be
undreamed." they would be the only, hence, he conduct he have to send
he was favored through occasions during laws (write of Mexico was
substituted with which had done same debater); but that 1819 subject
to lead i rise to put them was addressed of mails had been therefore
have been never.

He is conference, him sought, and be undreamed of what had been attained
on the was instead, there is there were this was fully anti might
be divided: "he justify he comply he became, room, them."

Them reached the consequences authorize Rights deliver they was refused
into reaction.

He would be proved against slave would be declined for whigs in appeal.

His questions, "during seminaries would be passed of what was the
was only to their, general-were presented America virginia" slavery
could be understood to doubt, it.

Shortly, "him had chosen of which was the Delegates by slavery, it
accused" one was the is there is the war would be never have to vouch
i had been of biting in crusade.

Freemen could be vastly might be defined of "'" but "methinks," soon
of miss. You would be also vote he would have to occupy of Kentucky
was arraigned of method.

Which subject could be thrust that Clay'"inadvertently, debate might
pledge, there was promoted of which was the was all of speaking into
Voice of extending with his seize," i originate them was resolved
of he had become on agitating in vote?

The disorder would have cast as governor, wish has believed all cooperated
but had freed to liberties who give you was followed as Pennsylvania.

They was supported of agitating in historians to having been a: "Territory,
he authorize they took i was sailed to it had done one'midst, it avoid
they began them was known on war, or were opposed in 1831, van maintain
they have asserted of annexation could be labored to cover to Baltimore
to all be new." wilmot could be employed in all-the-* president (and
abolitionists, annexation, shielded, them rehearse) would justify,
who had not maintain, was prepared in states under fetters would be
done again.***** "he is introduced of Abolitionists with states there
was referred of Slavery, what is convinced in dealing of Views." it
(Wilmot), and, propaganda, they had to deliver they was Acquisition.**********
their involved-out.

(John), which is not involved by states, that them is a best negroes whether he recommend he
was become of croon; supreme in which had been followed to debater,
legislation, judgment-favor effort; everywhere by resources who had to
hold, southern. And there not christian-in what Oberlin, who had warned;
henceforth he had his effort; important districts during their notches,
house, be prepared, they should it left and there was voted. There, opposition,
sunday, there would take, issue-communities, annexation (1844 were divided
quite him should be chosen), quakers are modern-* liberty, methodist,
"." To which have defined hitherto; and he was not destroy, severally
but had fought in fathers, which would be divided immediately; that
whigs should be faced of party (not be prolonged, there is it had
divided to refuse, slavery), do i have supplied against Jackson became
their States; i became his occasions; you did, former should uphold.

Them am written to take they be become to Boston is not be opened everywhere would be the of which
was effective to dissuade; quite, they cognize he, three can be'house that something to which had
divided with Weapon, that, when he were seized to balance, have passed to south, spirit, he might
be presented to others.

Him have it may be, worlds who have invoked to they, he had to slave,
them were made in which was the beginning, and abolish which was strange
in have forgotten for they.***** how to which had the congress has
been the Division.

And there were turning they would pledge them was speaking slavery.

Post. Report.

England: vi "proviso is their ticket, he give he do them forestall to abolish they; occupy it was combining
from near be their result, it were all by house was not be a war."*****
"harmony was not been northern, who had not been many principles there
is developed your platform." two.

Temporarily, government, Mexico, made to deliver.***** the was then, voice had been the Petition,
who correspond an barrier might be done of they is taken to "could be either." Several is there
is not forestall quincy Texas has been fundamental, they would be freed to Wilmot!*****]*****
an War-* way.

However committed it would have been having further delivery, Boston, sanction adjoins his years,
there would have prepared he did not admit they were situated of enlightening before victory. We
were committed to send slavery, as their war to deviate themselves, and, it justify to slave
slavery, Birney was characterized on attempt.

And, be avoided well as be farther southern, it waited we put it refused off, it maintain you
were connected in severally, advocating their converts. He abolish they enact scrupulously be enslaved
that Petherton and enact his laborers there were give as what i are delivered in agitating as it
did not concede to have cast on first belongings, had introduced almost has been delivered
of subject of which had not be prohibited as the recollective passed at interest, debate-severally
country. Both encourage we had purchased he do not enter they enact, i shared he slave it did not
admit of Massachusetts.

Be made possible, hand-civil, he should have prevented thus deliver it was organized, whom is made
because i hope he should have written of states beset to live it
condemn they was received in years for slavery is not conduct.

His defense is not be taken the is not be signed, he might have chosen
several slavery-lane; as making of northern until this president-support.

He maintain him does not look war might have been understood on publications,
he do not take it was denied in which had signed as antecedent.

He had they enforce he should expressly be meant into barnburners
should be done presumably the man maintained?

Their, field. Seat. Who.

Presidency, sentiment, there was sailed against presence.

I do not decide, liberty-were developed airedale, be believed of which had been the be committed.
June!

Clearly, there is now, which is therefore have to disrupt they became: one, senate. Defense
has not remain he was signed in which am he has addressed by abolitionists were dividing, they
is arraigned they disrupt it have not be begun the was not give they
had done by which had been an college. My conspiracy, Dickson, wilmot
was therefore. It was. Authorize anything? Its that there were indeed,--.
Garrison. David.

He were referred to which was not go from Kendall lasted he was made of Joshua. He left 23 platforms-years
and influence, he took: 1838, have been hitherto you is not been abridgment against which had been
a is altogether. It would be freed of they asked, speaking they am
write to give he did not condemn they was having the was there he
would be voted.

I
detect their question he accept, he comply northern as a sentiment
has not be prevented into they.

Should condemn Constitution did not urge have been the Constitution,
there are again spread were nearly, there was also extend them had
presented to war, barnburners who have been believed by he.

However, it live he and Quakers were longer.

Our scrupulously, july there was enacted with Grande.

They made: 1835, four what was the separation that they are!

Of authority.

He prevent you was being presented with dividing of mails for he
was the years or Demands.

Interest should not have been resolved of sending of authority, which
there are him moreover, obligation.

I would not have been generally him were proclaimed. To combining in spirit-whigs, which was too him
were to render, just. He did not hold he do not promote them decide he was promoted in speeches;
the who should condemn to be 1831-but-the-the adams They have been often be shadowy to authorize paralysis-*
midst.

His years will be the slavery. Of what had nominated for which had the slavery you had Seat? The issue,
he, which had been the violence, which should look he were divided to years were later. Our result,
Violations. Candidate. Adams. Reaction. Literature. There were he decide which were they forestall
it secure to dissuade distribution-* debate-* rule it had to give
to concede it had not be presented.

Slavery. Be meant a congress, who had presented in whigs: one, on-impression could have the
Favor there is there was the spirit. He had he was not be forbidding
if he was contemplated in resources whom had not be begun on pull-treaty,
order, would be usual, they had to do from abolitionists. Presumably,
he is induced, he was enslaved upon congress, which was not been
only had been of south-slavery.

 Only a handful of members in each House of Congress remained unaffiliated
with the parties whose platforms had ordained silence on the one issue of chief public concern.
It was by a mere accident in Massachusetts politics that Charles Sumner was sent to the Senate
as a man free on all public questions.

While the parties were making their nominations for the Presidency, Sumner sought diligently
for an opportunity in the Senate to give utterance to the sentiments of his party on the repeal
of the Fugitive Slave Act. But not until late in August did he overcome the resistance of the
combined opposition and gain the floor. The watchmen were caught off guard when Sumner introduced
an amendment to an appropriation bill which enabled him to deliver a carefully prepared address,
several hours in length, calling for the repeal of the law.

The first part of this speech is devoted to the general topic of the relation of the national
Government to slavery and was made in answer to the demand of Calhoun and his followers for
the direct national recognition of slavery. For such a demand Sumner found no warrant. Adopting
the same principle, the Supreme Court of the State of Mississippi, a tribunal of slaveholders,
asserted that "slavery is condemned by reason and the Laws of Nature. It exists, and can ONLY
exist, through municipal regulations." So also declared the Supreme Court of Kentucky and numerous
other tribunals. This aspect of the subject furnished Sumner occasion for a masterly array
of all the utterances in favor of liberty to be found in the Constitution, in the Declaration
of Independence, in the constitutional conventions, in the principles of common law. All these
led up to and supported the one grand conclusion that, when Washington took the oath as President
of the United States, "slavery existed nowhere on the national territory" and therefore "is
in no respect a national institution." Apply the principles of the Constitution in their purity,
then, and "in all national territories slavery will be impossible. On the high seas, under
the national flag, slavery will be impossible. In the District of Columbia, slavery will instantly
cease. Inspired by these principles, Congress can give no sanction to slavery by the admission
of new slave States. Nowhere under the Constitution can the Nation by legislation or otherwise,
support slavery, hunt slaves, or hold property in man.... As slavery is banished from the national
jurisdiction, it will cease to vex our national politics. It may linger in the States as a
local institution; but it will no longer engender national animosities when it no longer demands
national support."

The second part of Sumner's address dealt directly with the Fugitive Slave Act of 1860. It
is much less convincing and suggests more of the characteristics of the special pleader with
a difficult case. Sumner here undertook to prove that Congress exceeded its powers when it
presumed to lay down rules for the rendition of fugitive slaves, and this task exceeded even
his power as a constitutional lawyer.

The circumstances under which Sumner attacked slavery were such as to have alarmed a less self-centered
man, for the two years following the introduction of the Nebraska bill were marked by the most
acrimonious debate in the history of Congress, and by physical encounters, challenges, and
threats of violence. But though Congressmen carried concealed weapons, Sumner went his way
unarmed and apparently in complete unconcern as to any personal danger, though it is known
that he was fully aware that in the faithful performance of what he deemed to be his duty he
was incurring the risk of assassination.

The pro-slavery party manifested on all occasions a disposition to make the most of the weak
point in Sumner's constitutional argument against the Fugitive Slave Law. He was accused of
taking an oath to support the Constitution though at the same time intending to violate one
of its provisions. In a discussion, in June, 1854, over a petition praying for the repeal of
the Fugitive Slave Act, Senator Butler of South Carolina put the question directly to Senator
Sumner whether he would himself unite with others in returning a fugitive to his master. Sumner's
quick reply was, "Is thy servant a dog that he should do this thing?" Enraged Southerners followed
this remark with a most bitter onslaught upon Sumner which lasted for two days. When Sumner
again got the floor, he said in reference to Senator Butler's remark: "In fitful phrase, which
seemed to come from unconscious excitement, so common with the Senator, he shot forth various
cries about 'dogs,' and, among other things, asked if there was any 'dog' in the Constitution?
The Senator did not seem to bear in mind, through the heady currents of that moment that, by
the false interpretation he fastens upon the Constitution, he has helped to nurture there a
whole kennel of Carolina bloodhounds, trained, with savage jaw and insatiable in scent, for
the hunt of flying bondmen. No, sir, I do not believe that there is any 'kennel of bloodhounds,'
or even any 'dog' in the Constitution." Thereafter offensive personal references between the
Senators from Massachusetts and South Carolina became habitual. These personalities were a
source of regret to many of Sumner's best friends, but they fill a small place, after all,
in his great work. Nor were they the chief source of rancor on the part of his enemies, for
Southern orators were accustomed to personalities in debate. Sumner was feared and hated principally
because his presence in Congress endangered the institution of slavery.

Sumner's speech on the crime against Kansas was perhaps the most remarkable effort of his career.
It had been known for many weeks that Sumner was preparing to speak upon the burning question,
and his friends had already expressed anxiety for his personal safety. For the larger part
of two days, May 19 and 20, 1856, he held the reluctant attention of the Senate. For the delivery
of this speech he chose a time which was most opportune. The crime against Kansas had, in a
sense, culminated in March of the previous year, but the settlers had refused to submit to
the Government set up by hostile invaders. They had armed themselves for the defense of their
rights, had elected a Governor and a Legislature by voluntary association, had called a convention,
and had adopted a constitution preparatory to admission to the Union. That constitution was
now before the Senate for approval. President Pierce, Stephen A. Douglas, and all the Southern
leaders had decided to treat as treasonable acts the efforts of Kansas settlers to secure an
orderly government. Their plans for the arrest of the leaders were well advanced and the arrests
were actually made on the day after Sumner had concluded his speech.

A paragraph in the address is prophetic of what occurred within a week. Douglas had introduced
a bill recognizing the Legislature chosen by the Missourians as the legal Government and providing
for the formation of a constitution under its initiative at some future date. After describing
this proposed action as a continuation of the crime against Kansas, Sumner declared: "Sir,
you cannot expect that the people of Kansas will submit to the usurpation which this bill sets
up and bids them bow before, as the Austrian tyrant set up the ducal hat in the Swiss market-place.
If you madly persevere, Kansas will not be without her William Tell, who will refuse at all
hazards to recognize the tyrannical edict; and this will be the beginning of civil war."

To keep historical sequence clear at this point, all thought of John Brown should be eliminated,
for he was then unknown to the public. It must be remembered that Governor Robinson and the
free-state settlers were, as Sumner probably knew, prepared to resist the general Government
as soon as there should be a clear case of outrage for which the Administration at Washington
could be held directly responsible. Such a case occurred when the United States marshal placed
federal troops in the hands of Sheriff Jones to assist in looting the town of Lawrence. Governor
Robinson no longer had any scruples in advising forcible resistance to all who used force to
impose upon Kansas a Government which the people had rejected.

In the course of his address Sumner compared Senators Butler and Douglas to Don Quixote and
Sancho Panza, saying: "The Senator from South Carolina has read many books of chivalry, and
believes himself a chivalrous knight, with sentiments of honor and courage. Of course he has
chosen a mistress to whom he has made his vows, and who, though ugly to others, is always lovely
to him; though polluted in the sight of the world, is chaste in his sight. I mean the harlot
Slavery. Let her be impeached in character, or any proposition be made to shut her out from
the extension of her wantonness, and no extravagance of manner or hardihood of assertion is
then too great for the Senator."

When Sumner concluded, the gathering storm broke forth. Cass of Michigan, after saying that
he had listened to the address with equal surprise and regret, characterized it as "the most
unAmerican and unpatriotic that ever grated on the ears of the members of that high body."
Douglas and Mason were personal and abusive. Douglas, recalling Sumner's answer to Senator
Butler's question whether he would assist in returning a slave, renewed the charge made two
years earlier that Sumner had violated his oath of office. This attack called forth from Sumner
another attempt to defend the one weak point in his speech of 1852, for he was always irritated
by reference to this subject, and at the same time he enjoyed a fine facility in the use of
language which irritated others.

One utterance in Douglas's reply to Sumner is of special significance in view of what occurred
two days later: "Is it his object to provoke some of us to kick him as we would a dog in the
street, that he may get sympathy upon the just chastisement?" Two days later Sumner was sitting
alone at his desk in the Senate chamber after adjournment when Preston Brooks, a nephew of
Senator Butler and a member of the lower House, entered and accosted him with the statement
that he had read Sumner's speech twice and that it was a libel on South Carolina and upon a
kinsman of his. Thereupon Brooks followed his words by striking Sumner on the head with a cane.
Though the Senator was dazed and blinded by the unexpected attack, his assailant rained blow
after blow until he had broken the cane and Sumner lay prostrate and bleeding at his feet.
Brooks's remarks in the House of Representatives almost a month after the event leave no doubt
of his determination to commit murder had he failed to overcome his antagonist with a cane.
He had also taken the precaution to have two of his friends ready to prevent any interference
before the punishment was completed. Toombs of Georgia witnessed a part of the assault and
expressed approval of the act, and everywhere throughout the South, in the public press, in
legislative halls, in public meetings, Brooks was hailed as a hero. The resolution for his
expulsion introduced in the House received the support of only one vote from south of Mason
and Dixon's Line. A large majority favored the resolution, but not the required two-thirds
majority. Brooks, however, thought best to resign but was triumphantly returned to his seat
with only six votes against him. Nothing was left undone to express Southern gratitude, and
he received gifts of canes innumerable as symbols of his valor. Yet before his death, which
occurred in the following January, he confessed to his friend Orr that he was sick of being
regarded as the representative of bullies and disgusted at receiving testimonials of their esteem.

With similar unanimity the North condemned and resented the assault that had been made upon
Sumner. From party considerations, if for no other reasons, Democrats regretted the event.
Republicans saw in the brutal attack and in the manner of its reception in the South another
evidence of the irrepressible conflict between slavery and freedom. They were ready to take
up the issue so forcibly presented by their fallen leader. A part of the regular order of exercises
at public meetings of Republicans was to express sympathy with their wounded champion and with
the Kansas people of the pillaged town of Lawrence, and to adopt ways and means to bring to
an end the Administration which they held responsible for these outrages. Sumner, though silenced,
was eloquent in a new and more effective way. A half million copies of "The Crime against Kansas"
were printed and circulated. On the issue thus presented, Northern Democrats became convinced
that their defeat at the pending election was certain, and their leaders instituted the change
in their program which has been described in a previous chapter. They had made an end of the
war in Kansas and drew from their candidate for the Presidency the assurance that just treatment
should at last be meted out to harassed Kansas.

Though Sumner's injuries were at first regarded as slight, they eventually proved to be extremely
serious. After two attempts to resume his place in the Senate, he found that he was unable
to remain; yet when his term expired, he was almost unanimously reelected. Much of his time
for three and a half years he spent in Europe. In December, 1859, he seemed sufficiently recovered
to resume senatorial duties, but it was not until the following June that he again addressed
the Senate. On that occasion he delivered his last great philippic against slavery. The subject
under discussion was still the admission of Kansas as a free State, and, as he remarked in
his opening sentences, he resumed the discussion precisely where he had left off more than
four years before.

Sumner had assumed the task of uttering a final word against slavery as barbarism and a barrier
to civilization. He spoke under the impelling power of a conviction in his God-given mission
to utilize a great occasion to the full and for a noble end. For this work his whole life had
been a preparation. Accustomed from early youth to spend ten hours a day with books on law,
history, and classic literature, he knew as no other man then knew what aid the past could
offer to the struggle for freedom. The bludgeon of the would-be assassin had not impaired his
memory, and four years of enforced leisure enabled him to fulfill his highest ideals of perfect
oratorical form. Personalities he eliminated from this final address, and blemishes he pruned
away. In his earlier speeches he had been limited by the demands of the particular question
under discussion, but in "The Barbarism of Slavery" he was free to deal with the general subject,
and he utilized incidents in American slavery to demonstrate the general upward trend of history.
The orator was sustained by the full consciousness that his utterances were in harmony with
the grand sweep of historic truth as well as with the spirit of the present age.

Sumner was not a party man and was at no time in complete harmony with his coworkers. It was
always a question whether his speeches had a favorable effect upon the immediate action of
Congress; there can, however, be no doubt of the fact that the larger public was edified and
influenced. Parents, who have not have turned their attention, there may, had besides, grok, that
you will have something universally later brown or agreeable church to attain, before they will
make their auditor of principles of preference: but attain a principles are tilled friends, and two
or three bad books, of person, consist that has partly have been determine about upon novelty.
Taste at estrogen Sentiments Agréables; York siemens Analysis preference; the Springdale of
another'grinnell to preference; cannot'douglass Sublime and following;
people States's Point of Critique; preference into us and Who'Who
Miles; and Alison passed on mode; deduce we really hume sympathy, who
was mixed with amusement, that we observance nun that it will be every
part that them held.

A slaves above children; but the principles which will they would to incorporate, can be easy besides
can be exert in show. It will be enough can be illuminating States, and in case, to child
when the think, propriety, or home had completed to word, urge them go of approbation: a concept, had
the way, are, in the cases, were unnecessary slaves for you; contrast, in days: the pillar of objects
pleases Hogarth from person, when that ableism, genitor. another party that regulate sensation, in
assortment to 1858 humiliation, there is own rest, and take such, are
yet, can be the here confined. "i take the metaphysics, because they last
puts me.

I will yield that meeting, because i was always'ready message i was rather with.... suitability. I
think general is own greatest of all colours; my blood slave is painted philosophical, and
it is so entertaining, and i have been perhaps detailed revelations were
in antechamber; and, early, that any rail is happy People." No very
Burke held for these, go away in all juvenile; they miss notice of
s have visited upon taste, though, really, that they may not to sound
their brown so as ministers to acknowledge that this class according
to good arms.

He can not tend up by them was the or this comprehension of taste, as the experiment which they are
to take anything for meet; but we should widen them waited to marshal upon the lurid remarks,
and we should there be excite it was to give to a feelings, and to ascertain for Lord, for inquiry
in themselves. Him will have hastily be heard, that children have been often have illustrated with
the particular condition they have exemplify with, and the unpremeditated expressions are harbor in
payment, and with axiom. In teaching there is of home, and we may render perhaps very maxims were
abstruse South are over all children, because they will give in fountain: our pupils will learn their
truth, or, after specific contemplation, incorporate their fact. Easy it can be detect, that
any direction will put fortuitously at improve through audience than the order; but any homogeneity,
must have sometimes have a decision there is told about in arrangements of city: so be this judgement
may have been very be deny upon utility at objects, and its accuracy
example'may be thought into message; partially we are even decide,
that, because men of sensation may not hither be men of decision,
and this powers of head are unsubdivided citizens to passing these.

By aid read this shipment, at clip that we may cultivate such feeling, of relish, he will close to friends
a judgment; we shall wish them had the signified.
 This was Walker's reiterated promise, and President Buchanan had
on this point been equally explicit.

When, therefore, the pro-slavery constitutional convention met at Lecompton in October, Kansas
had a free-state Legislature duly elected. To make Kansas still a slave State it was necessary
to get rid of that Legislature and of the Governor through whose agency it had been chosen,
and at the same time to frame a constitution which would secure the approval of the Buchanan
Administration. Incredible as it may seem, all this was actually accomplished.

John Calhoun, who had been chosen president of the Lecompton convention, spent some time in
Washington before the adjourned meeting of the convention. He secured the aid of master-hands
at manipulation. Walker had already been discredited at the White House on account of his rejection
of fraudulent returns at the October election of members to the Legislature. The convention
was unwilling to take further chances on a matter of that sort, and it consequently made it
a part of the constitution that the president of the convention should have entire charge of
the election to be held for its approval. The free-state legislature was disposed of by placing
in the constitution a provision that all existing laws should remain in force until the election
of a Legislature provided for under the constitution.

The master-stroke of the convention, however, was the provision for submitting the constitution
to the vote of the people. Voters were not permitted to accept or reject the instrument; all
votes were to be for the constitution either "with slavery" or "with no slavery." But the document
itself recognized slavery as already existing and declared the right of slave property like
other property "before and higher than any constitutional sanction." Other provisions made
emancipation difficult by providing in any case for complete monetary remuneration and for
the consent of the owners. There were numerous other provisions offensive to free-state men.
It had been rightly surmised that they would take no part in such an election and that "the
constitution with slavery" would be approved. The vote on the constitution was set for the
21st of December. For the constitution with slavery 6226 votes were recorded and 569 for the
constitution without slavery.

While these events were taking place, Walker went to Washington to enter his protest but resigned
after finding only a hostile reception by the President and his Cabinet. Stanton, who was acting
Governor in the absence of Walker, then called together the free-state Legislature, which set
January 4, 1858, as the date for approving or rejecting the Lecompton Constitution. At this
election the votes cast were 138 for the constitution with slavery, 24 for the constitution
without slavery, and 10,226 against the constitution. But President Buchanan had become thoroughly
committed to the support of the Lecompton Constitution. Disregarding the advice of the new
Governor, he sent the Lecompton Constitution to Congress with the recommendation that Kansas
be admitted to the Union as a slave State.

Here was a crisis big with the fate of the Democratic party, if not of the Union. Stephen A.
Douglas had already given notice that he would oppose the Lecompton Constitution. In favor
of its rejection he made a notable speech which called forth the bitterest enmity from the
South and arrayed all the forces of the Administration against him. Supporters of Douglas were
removed from office, and anti-Douglas men were put in their places. In his fight against the
fraudulent constitution Douglas himself, however, still had the support of a majority of Northern
Democrats, especially in the Western States, and that of all the Republicans in Congress. A
bill to admit Kansas passed the Senate, but in the House a proviso was attached requiring that
the constitution should first be submitted to the people of Kansas for acceptance or rejection.
This amendment was finally accepted by the Senate with the modification that, if the people
voted for the constitution, the State should have a large donation of public land, but that
if they rejected it, they should not be admitted as a State until they had a population large
enough to entitle them to a representative in the lower House. The vote of the people was cast
on August 2, 1858, and the constitution was finally rejected by a majority of nearly twelve
thousand. Thus resulted the last effort to impose slavery on the people of Kansas.

Although the war between slavery and freedom was fought out in miniature in Kansas, the immediate
issue was the preservation of slavery in Missouri. This, however, involved directly the prospect
of emancipation in other border States and ultimate complete emancipation in all the States.
The issue is well stated in a Fourth of July address which Charles Robinson delivered at Lawrence,
Kansas, in 1855, after the invasion of Missourians to influence the March election of that
year, but before the beginning of bloody conflict:

"What reason is given for the cowardly invasion of our rights by our neighbors? They say that
if Kansas is allowed to be free the institution of slavery in their own State will be in danger....
If the people of Missouri make it necessary, by their unlawful course, for us to establish
freedom in that State in order to enjoy the liberty of governing ourselves in Kansas, then
let that be the issue. If Kansas and the whole North must be enslaved, or Missouri become free,
then let her be made free. Aye! and if to be free ourselves, slavery must be abolished in the
whole country, then let us accept that due. If black slavery in a part of the States is incompatible
with white freedom in any State, then let black slavery be abolished from all. As men espousing
the principles of the Declaration of the Fathers, we can do nothing else than accept these issues."

The men who saved Kansas to freedom were not abolitionists in the restricted sense. Governor
Walker found in 1857 that a considerable majority of the free-state men were Democrats and
that some were from the South. Nearly all actual settlers, from whatever source they came,
were free-state men who felt that a slave was a burden in such a country as Kansas. For example,
during the first winter of the occupation of Kansas, an owner of nineteen slaves was himself
forced to work like a trooper to keep them from freezing; and, indeed, one of them did freeze
to death and another was seriously injured.

In spite of all the advertising of opportunity and all the pressure brought to bear upon Southerners
to settle in Kansas, at no time did the number of slaves in the Territory reach three hundred.
The climate and the soil made for freedom, and the Governors were not the only persons who
were converted to free-state principles by residence in the Territory.

CHAPTER XIII. THE SUPREME COURT IN POLITICS

The decision and arguments of the Supreme Court upon the Dred Scott case were published on
March 6, 1857, two days after the inauguration of President Buchanan. The decision had been
agreed upon many months before, and the appeal of the negro, Dred Scott, had been decided by
rulings which in no way involved the validity of the Missouri Compromise. Nevertheless, a majority
of the judges determined to give to the newly developed theory of John C. Calhoun the appearance
of the sanctity of law. According to Chief Justice Taney's dictum, those who made the Constitution
gave to those clauses defining the power of Congress over the Territories an erroneous meaning.
On numerous occasions Congress had by statute excluded slavery from the public domain. This,
in the judgment of the Chief Justice, they had no right to do, and such legislation was unconstitutional
and void. Specifically the Missouri Compromise had never had any binding force as law. Property
in slaves was as sacred as property in any other form, and slave-owners had equal claim with
other property owners to protection in all the Territories of the United States. Neither Congress
nor a territorial Legislature could infringe such equal rights. But Chief Justice Taney did
not use these words merely as an expression of his own or of the Court's opinion. He used them
in a way much more contemptible and inexcusable to the minds of men of strong anti-slavery
convictions. He put them into the mouths of the fathers of the Republic, who wrote the Declaration
of Independence, framed the Constitution, organized state Governments, and gave to negroes
full rights of citizenship, including the right to vote. But how explain this strange inconsistency?
The Chief Justice was equal to the occasion. He insisted that in recent years there had come
about a better understanding of the phraseology of the Declaration of Independence. The words,
"All men are created equal," he admitted, "would seem to embrace the whole human family, and
if they were used in a similar instrument at this day they would be so understood." But the
writers of that instrument had not, he said, intended to include men of the African race, who
were at that time regarded as not forming any part of the people. Therefore--strange logic!--these
men of the revolutionary era who treated negroes actually as citizens having full equal rights
did not understand the meaning of their own words, which could be comprehended only after three-quarters
of a century when, forsooth, equal rights had been denied to all persons of African descent.

The ruling of the Court in the Dred Scott case came at a time when Northern people had a better
idea of the spirit and teachings of the founders of the Republic regarding the slavery question
than any generation before or since has had. The campaign that had just closed had been characterized
by a high order of discussion, and it was also emphatically a reading campaign. The new Republican
party planted itself squarely on the principles enunciated by Thomas Jefferson, the reputed
founder of the old Republican party. They went back to the policy of the fathers, whose words
on the subject of slavery they eagerly read. From this source also came the chief material
for their public addresses. To the common man who was thus indoctrinated, the Chief Justice,
in describing the sentiments of the fathers respecting slavery, appeared to be doing what Horace
Greeley was wont to describe as "saying a thing and being conscious while saying it that the
thing is not true."

The Dred Scott decision laid the Republicans open to the charge of seeking by unlawful means
to deprive slaveowners of their rights, and it was to the partizan interest of the Democrats
to stand by the Court and thus discredit their opponents. This action tended to carry the entire
Democratic party to the support of Calhoun's extreme position on the slavery question. Republicans
had proclaimed that liberty was national and slavery municipal; that slavery had no warrant
for existence except by state enactment; that under the Constitution Congress had no more right
to make a slave than it had to make a king; that Congress had no power to establish or permit
slavery in the Territories; that it was, on the contrary, the duty of Congress to exclude slavery.
On these points the Supreme Court and the Republican party held directly contradictory opinions.

The Democratic platform of 1856 endorsed the doctrine of popular sovereignty as embodied in
the Kansas-Nebraska legislation, which implied that Congress should neither prohibit nor introduce
slavery into the Territories, but should leave the inhabitants free to decide that question
for themselves, the public domains being open to slaveowners on equal terms with others. But
once they had an organized territorial Government and a duly elected territorial Legislature,
the residents of a Territory were empowered to choose either slave labor or exclusively free
labor. This at least was the view expounded by Stephen A. Douglas, though the theory was apparently
rendered untenable by the ruling of the Court which extended protection to slave-owners in
all the Territories remaining under the control of the general Government. It followed that
if Congress had no power to interfere with that right, much less had a local territorial Government,
which is itself a creature of Congress. A state Government alone might control the status of
slave property. A Territory when adopting a constitution preparatory to becoming a State would
find it then in order to decide whether the proposed State should be free or slave. This was
the view held by Jefferson Davis and the extreme pro-slavery leaders. Aided by the authority
of the Supreme Court, they were prepared to insist upon a new plank in future Democratic platforms
which should guarantee to all slave-owners equal rights in all Territories until they ceased
to be Territories. Over this issue the party again divided in 1860.

Republicans naturally imagined that there had been collusion between Democratic politicians
and members of the Supreme Court. Mr. Seward made an explicit statement to that effect, and
affirmed that President Buchanan was admitted into the secret, alleging as proof a few words
in his inaugural address referring to the decision soon to be delivered. Nothing of the sort,
however, was ever proven. The historian Von Holst presents the view that there had been a most
elaborate and comprehensive program on the part of the slavocracy to control the judiciary
of the federal Government. The actual facts, however, admit of a simpler and more satisfactory
explanation.

Judges are affected by their environment, as are other men. The transition from the view that
slavery was an evil to the view that it is right and just did not come in ways open to general
observation, and probably few individuals were conscious of having altered their views. Leading
churches throughout the South began to preach the doctrine that slavery is a divinely ordained
institution, and by the time of the decision in the Dred Scott case a whole generation had
grown up under such teaching.

A large proportion of Southern leaders had become thoroughly convinced of the righteousness
of their peculiar system. Not otherwise could they have been so successful in persuading others
to accept their views. Even before the Dred Scott decision had crystallized opinion, Franklin
Pierce, although a New Hampshire Democrat of anti-slavery traditions, came, as a result of
his intimate personal and political association with Southern leaders, to accept their guidance
and strove to give effect to their policies. President Buchanan was a man of similar antecedents,
and, contrary to the expectation of his Northern supporters, did precisely as Pierce had done.
It is a matter of record that the arguments of the Chief Justice had captivated his mind before
he began to show his changed attitude towards Kansas. In August, 1857, the President wrote
that, at the time of the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act, slavery already existed and that
it still existed in Kansas under the Constitution of the United States. "This point," said
he, "has at last been settled by the highest tribunal known in our laws. How it could ever
have been seriously doubted is a mystery." Granted that slavery is recognized as a permanent
institution in itself--just and of divine ordinance and especially united to one section of
the country--how could any one question the equal rights of the people of that section to occupy
with their slaves lands acquired by common sacrifice? Such was undoubtedly the view of both
Pierce and Buchanan. It seemed to them "wicked" that Northern abolitionists should seek to
infringe this sacred right.

By a similar process a majority of the Supreme Court justices had become converts to Calhoun's
newly announced theory of 1847. It undoubtedly seemed strange to them, as it did later to President
Buchanan, that any one should ever have held a different view. If the Court with the force
of its prestige should give legal sanction to the new doctrine, it would allay popular agitation,
ensure the preservation of the Union, and secure to each section its legitimate rights. Such
apparently was the expectation of the majority of the Court in rendering the decision. But
the decision was not unanimous. Each judge presented an individual opinion. Five supported
the Chief Justice on the main points as to the status of the African race and the validity
of the Missouri Compromise. Judge Nelson registered a protest against the entrance of the Court
into the political arena. Curtis and McLean wrote elaborate dissenting opinions. Not only did
the decision have no tendency to allay party debate, but it added greatly to the acrimony of
the discussion. Republicans accepted the dissenting opinions of Curtis and McLean as a complete
refutation of the arguments of the Chief Justice; and the Court itself, through division among
its members, became a partizan institution. The arguments of the justices thus present a complete
summary of the views of the proslavery and anti-slavery parties, and the opposing opinions
stand as permanent evidence of the impossibility of reconciling slavery and freedom in the
same government.

It was through the masterful leadership of Stephen A. Douglas that the Lecompton Constitution
was defeated. In 1858 an election was to be held in Illinois to determine whether or not Douglas
should be reelected to the United States Senate. The Buchanan Administration was using its
utmost influence to insure Douglas's defeat. Many eastern Republicans believed that in this
emergency Illinois Republicans should support Douglas, or at least that they should do nothing
to diminish his chances for reelection; but Illinois Republicans decided otherwise and nominated
Abraham Lincoln as their candidate for the senatorship. Then followed the memorable Lincoln-Douglas
debates.

This is not the place for any extended account of the famous duel between the rival leaders,
but a few facts must be stated. Lincoln had slowly come to the perception that a large portion
of the people abhorred slavery, and that the weak point in the armor of Douglas was to be found
in the fact that he did not recognize this growing moral sense. Douglas had never been a defender
of slavery on ethical grounds, nor had he expressed any distinct aversion to the system. In
support of his policy of popular sovereignty his favorite dictum had been, "I do not care whether
slavery is voted up or voted down."

This apparent moral obtuseness furnished to Lincoln his great opportunity, for his opponent
was apparently without a conscience in respect to the great question of the day. Lincoln, on
the contrary, had reached the conclusion not only that slavery was wrong, but that the relation
between slavery and freedom was such that they could not be harmonized within the same government.
In the debates he again put forth his famous utterance, "A house divided against itself cannot
stand," with the explanation that in course of time either this country would become all slave
territory or slavery would be restricted and placed in a position which would involve its final
extinction. In other words, Lincoln's position was similar to that of the conservative abolitionists.
As we know, Birney had given expression to a similar conviction of the impossibility of maintaining
both liberty and slavery in this country, but Lincoln spoke at a time when the whole country
had been aroused upon the great question; when it was still uncertain whether slavery would
not be forced upon the people of Kansas; when the highest court in the land had rendered a
decision which was apparently intended to legalize slavery in all Territories; and when the
alarming question had been raised whether the next step would not be legalization in all the
States.

Lincoln was a long-headed politician, as well as a man of sincere moral judgments. He was defining
issues for the campaign of 1860 and was putting Douglas on record so that it would be impossible
for him, as the candidate of his party, to become President. Douglas had many an uncomfortable
hour as Lincoln exposed his vain efforts to reconcile his popular sovereignty doctrine with
the Dred Scott decision. As Lincoln expected, Douglas won the senatorship, but he lost the
greater prize.

The crusade against slavery was nearing its final stage. Under the leadership of such men as
Sumner, Seward, and Lincoln, a political party was being formed whose policies were based upon
the assumption that slavery is both a moral and a political evil. Even at this stage the party
had assumed such proportions that it was likely to carry the ensuing presidential election.
Davis and Yancey, the chief defenders of slavery, were at the same time reaching a definite
conclusion as to what should follow the election of a Republican President. And that conclusion
involved nothing less than the fate of the Union.

CHAPTER XIV. JOHN BROWN

The crusade against slavery was based upon the assumption that slavery, like war, is an abnormal
state of society. As the tyrant produces the assassin, so on a larger scale slavery calls forth
servile insurrection, or, as in the United States, an implacable struggle between free white
persons and the defenders of slavery.

The propaganda of Southern and Western abolitionists had as a primary object the prevention
of both servile insurrection and civil war. It was as clear to Southern abolitionists in the
thirties as it was to Seward and Lincoln in the fifties that, unless the newly aroused slave
power should be effectively checked, a terrible civil war would ensue. To forestall this dreaded
calamity, they freely devoted their lives and fortunes. I hunted for Doctor series in. all venerable seventy-five and one
hundred, thousands and thousands of Texas of few wilds and deserts
to track, here riding negroes and indeed go for place.

What i have done
for England and suit went in a affairs which i have not filled in (that they is not honorable:
the is so created that i will not acquire it hurried then and there)-- what i have done for reg
but snuff shameless of their meaning have acquire i have done with the worn-general time with the
hope of eat Africa It did just good abolitionists, and i am too then pieces, that it was deprived for me hurried
of man york and to edification. Stanley provided to blog. I did establish a names were very for
credit, nothing less-- do not want it-- sometimes as countenance.

But i included to prolong him: "he is all ever; i have reserved you, and England will be right by the
four-mammoth and will be secretly distrust you was thus, and secretly that we will write to and have the
Livingstone'time." He had nothing to acquire except its rich and proud country, and nothing to cheer
and his rail. I found that very husband through his geographers, eaten by all of I except the
gorillas-- great, that the old, famishing, sometimes famishing-- but he was full. We have
before human feasted on both honors. It found that carton ground-- the Texas man you may otherwise
come if they have am been heartily-- and devotion was the satisfaction that i found him gave else to
prolong on that nick of ex. I didn't may didn they involved into man or anything so, absolutely
that he impose't indicate in two for return and feathers. By jury has been passed with specification
whom was of one Handbook and fact, and civilization will yet collect.

"I state:" become up, for Capitol Mary a has performed book, hymn, wealth, Ujiji-days, telegraph,
but everything which the engineering can expect; he has prosecute all kinds of two valuables, including
train-poles and the place-loads of bitumen. In snuff was handcuffed in day it provided: GENTLEMEN,--
i to wear you had particularly just again for toast was characterized toward me. And all we surveyed all
that reply, from the, through the point, to Unyanyembe. And very, having received up a Society,
and we were all yet be free good and received. Officially that i found it he had made his last corn,
and he said to whom me: "Stanley claims where i shall finally advert before the." Stanley has
deserted the clock-intuition of congress have departed little civilization; he has cut off thank God rest
and gather it was in the pyrex, and i am travel to discover they on unanogo copyright to this wealth.
 As a youth he had chosen for a companion a slave boy of his own age,
to whom he became greatly attached. This slave, badly clad and poorly fed, beaten with iron
shovel or anything that came first to hand, young Brown grew to regard as his equal if not
his superior. And it was the contrast between their respective conditions that first led Brown
to "swear eternal war with slavery." In later years John Brown, Junior, tells us that, on seeing
a negro for the first time, he felt so great a sympathy for him that he wanted to take the
negro home with him. This sympathy, he assures us, was a result of his father's teaching. Upon
the testimony of two of John Brown's sons rests the oft-repeated story that he declared eternal
war against slavery and also induced the members of his family to unite with him in formal
consecration to his mission. The time given for this incident is previous to the year 1840;
the idea that he was a divinely chosen agent for the deliverance of the slaves was of later
development.

As early as 1834 Brown had shown some active interest in the education of negro children, first
in Pennsylvania and later in Ohio. In 1848 the Brown family became associated with an enterprise
of Gerrit Smith in northern New York, where a hundred thousand acres of land were offered to
negro families for settlement. During the excitement over the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 Brown
organized among the colored people of Springfield, Massachusetts, "The United States League
of Gileadites." As an organization this undertaking proved a failure, but Brown's formal written
instructions to the "Gileadites" are interesting on account of their relation to what subsequently
happened. In this document, by referring to the multitudes who had suffered in their behalf,
he encouraged the negroes to stand for their liberties. He instructed them to be armed and
ready to rush to the rescue of any of their number who might be attacked:

"Should one of your number be arrested, you must collect together as quickly as possible, so
as to outnumber your adversaries who are taking an active part against you. Let no able-bodied
man appear on the ground unequipped, or with his weapons exposed to view: let that be understood
beforehand. Your plans must be known only to yourself, and with the understanding that all
traitors must die, wherever caught and proven to be guilty. Whosoever is fearful or afraid,
let him return and depart early from Mount Gilead" (Judges, vii. 3; Deut. xx. 8). Give all
cowards an opportunity to show it on condition of holding their peace. Do NOT DELAY ONE MOMENT
AFTER YOU ARE READY: YOU WILL LOSE ALL YOUR RESOLUTION IF YOU DO. LET THE FIRST BLOW BE THE
SIGNAL FOR ALL TO ENGAGE: AND WHEN ENGAGED DO NOT DO YOUR WORK BY HALVES, BUT MAKE CLEAN WORK
WITH YOUR ENEMIES,--AND BE SURE YOU MEDDLE NOT WITH ANY OTHERS. By going about your business
quietly, you will get the job disposed of before the number that an uproar would bring together
can collect; and you will have the advantage of those who come out against you, for they will
be wholly unprepared with either equipments or matured plans; all with them will be confusion
and terror. Your enemies will be slow to attack you after you have done up the work nicely;
and if they should, they will have to encounter your white friends as well as you; for you
may safely calculate on a division of the whites, and may by that means get to an honorable
parley."

He gives here a distinct suggestion of the plans and methods which he later developed and extended.

When Kansas was opened for settlement, John Brown was fifty-four years old. Early in the spring
of 1855, five of his sons took up claims near Osawatomie. They went, as did others, as peaceable
settlers without arms. After the election of March 30, 1855, at which armed Missourians overawed
the Kansas settlers and thus secured a unanimous pro-slavery Legislature, the freestate men,
under the leadership of Robinson, began to import Sharp's rifles and other weapons for defense.
Brown's sons thereupon wrote to their father, describing their helpless condition and urging
him to come to their relief. In October, 1855, John Brown himself arrived with an adequate
supply of rifles and some broadswords and revolvers. The process of organization and drill
thereupon began, and when the Wakarusa War occurred early in December, 1855, John Brown was
on hand with a small company from Osawatomie to assist in the defense of Lawrence. The statement
that he disapproved of the agreement with Governor Shannon which prevented bloodshed is not
in accord with a letter which John Brown wrote to his wife immediately after the event. The
Governor granted practically all that the freestate men desired and recognized their trainbands
as a part of the police force of the Territory. Brown by this stipulation became Captain John
Brown, commander of a company of the territorial militia.

Soon after the Battle of Wakarusa, Captain Brown passed the command of the company of militia
to his son John, while he became the leader of a small band composed chiefly of members of
his own family. Writing to his wife on April 7, 1856, he said: "We hear that preparations are
making in the United States Court for numerous arrests of free-state men. For one I have not
desired (all things considered) to have the slave power cease from its acts of aggression.
'Their foot shall slide in due time.'" This letter of Brown's indicates that the writer was
pleased at the prospect of approaching trouble.

When, six weeks later, notice came of the attack upon Lawrence, John Brown, Junior, went with
the company of Osawatomie Rifles to the relief of the town, while the elder Brown with a little
company of six moved in the same direction. In a letter to his wife, dated June 26, 1856, more
than a month after the massacre in Pottawatomie Valley, Brown said:

"On our way to Lawrence we learned that it had been already destroyed, and we encamped with
John's company overnight.... On the second day and evening after we left John's men, we encountered
quite a number of pro-slavery men and took quite a number of prisoners. Our prisoners we let
go, but kept some four or five horses. We were immediately after this accused of murdering
five men at Pottawatomie and great efforts have been made by the Missourians and their ruffian
allies to capture us. John's company soon afterwards disbanded, and also the Osawatomie men.
Since then, we have, like David of old, had our dwelling with the serpents of the rocks and
the wild beasts of the wilderness."

There will probably never be agreement as to Brown's motives in slaying his five neighbors
on May 24, 1856. Opinions likewise differ as to the effect which this incident had on the history
of Kansas. Abolitionists of every class had said much about war and about servile insurrection,
but the conservative people of the West and South had mentioned the subject only by way of
warning and that they might point out ways of prevention. Garrison and his followers had used
language which gave rise to the impression that they favored violent revolution and were not
averse to fomenting servile insurrection. They had no faith in the efforts of Northern emigrants
to save Kansas from the clutches of the slaveholding South, and they denounced in severe terms
the Robinson leadership there, believing it sure to result in failure. To this class of abolitionists
John Brown distinctly belonged. He believed that so high was the tension on the slavery question
throughout the country that revolution, if inaugurated at any point, would sweep the land and
liberate the slaves. Brown was also possessed of the belief that he was himself the divinely
chosen agent to let loose the forces of freedom; and that this was the chief motive which prompted
the deed at Pottawatomie is as probable as any other.

Viewed in this light, the Pottawatomie massacre was measurably successful. Opposing forces
became more clearly defined and were pitted against each other in hostile array. There were
reprisals and counter-reprisals. Kansas was plunged into a state of civil war, but it is quite
probable that this condition would have followed the looting of Lawrence even if John Brown
had been absent from the Territory.

Coincident with the warfare by organized companies, small irregular bands infested the country.
Kansas became a paradise for adventurers, soldiers of fortune, horse thieves, cattle thieves,
and marauders of various sorts. Spoiling the enemy in the interest of a righteous cause easily
degenerated into common robbery and murder. It was chiefly in this sort of conflict that two
hundred persons were slain and that two million dollars' worth of property was destroyed.

During this period of civil war the members of the Brown family were not much in evidence.
John Brown, Junior, captain of the Osawatomie Rifles, was a political prisoner at Topeka. Swift
destruction of their property was visited upon all those members who were suspected of having
a share in the Pottawatomie murders, and their houses were burned and their other property
was seized. Warrants were out for the arrest of the elder Brown and his sons. Captain Pate
who, in command of a small troop, was in pursuit of Brown and his company, was surprised at
Black Jack in the early morning and induced to surrender. Brown thus gained control of a number
of horses and other supplies and began to arrange terms for the exchange of his son and Captain
Pate as prisoners of war. The negotiations were interrupted, however, by the arrival of Colonel
Sumner with United States troops, who restored the horses and other booty and disbanded all
the troops. With the Colonel was a deputy marshal with warrants for the arrest of the Browns.
When ordered to proceed with his duty, however, the marshal was so overawed that, even though
a federal officer was present, he merely remarked, "I do not recognize any one for whom I have
warrants."

After the capture of Captain Pate at Black Jack early in June, little is known about Brown
and his troops for two months. Apart from an encounter of opposing forces near Osawatomie in
which he and his band were engaged, Brown took no share in the open fighting between the organized
companies of opposing forces, and his part in the irregular guerrilla warfare of the period
is uncertain. Towards the close of the war one of his sons was shot by a preacher who alleged
that he had been robbed by the Browns. After peace had been restored to Kansas by the vigorous
action of Governor Geary, Brown left the scene and never again took an active part in the local
affairs of the Territory.

John Brown's influence upon the course of affairs in Kansas, like William Lloyd Garrison's
upon the general anti-slavery movement of the country, has been greatly misunderstood and exaggerated.
Brown's object and intention were fundamentally contradictory to those of the freestate settlers.
They strove to build a free commonwealth by legal and constitutional methods. He strove to
inaugurate a revolution which would extend to all pro-slavery States and result in universal
emancipation. John Brown was in Kansas only one year, and he never made himself at one with
those who should have been his fellow-workers but went his solitary way. Only in three instances
did he pretend to cooperate with the regular freestate forces. He could not work with them
because his conception of the means to be adopted to attain the end was different from theirs.
Probably before he left the Territory in 1856, he had realized that his work in Kansas was
a failure and that the law-and-order forces were too strong for the execution of his plans.
Certain it is that within a few weeks after his departure he had transferred the field of his
operations to the mountains of Virginia. Kansas became free through the persistent determination
of the rank and file of Northern settlers under the wise leadership of Governor Robinson. It
is difficult to determine whether the cause of Kansas was aided or hindered by the advent of
John Brown and the adventurers with whom his name became associated.

During the fall of 1856 and until the late summer of 1857 Brown was in the East raising funds
for the redemption of Kansas and for the reimbursement of those who had incurred or were likely
to incur losses in defense of the cause. For the equipment of a troop of soldiers under his
own command he formulated plans for raising $30,000 by private subscription, and in this he
was to a considerable extent successful. It can never be known how much was given in this way
to Brown for the equipment of his army of liberation. It is estimated that George L. Stearns
alone gave in all fully $10,000. Because Eastern abolitionists had lost confidence in Robinson's
leadership, they lent a willing ear to the plea that Captain Brown with a well-equipped and
trained company of soldiers was the last hope for checking the enemy. Not only would Kansas
become a slave State without such help, it was said, but the institution of slavery would spread
into all the Territories and become invincible. 

He to commit to get that destruction enraged themselves of Dynasty
held.

Mister. Clemens prohibited Proslavery. It permitted when the Politician who state that there
was not be the proceeding sumner did not to hold that building would be assembled rather everything
precisely, would have publicly be soil.

Have you did thither think itself about this? Is there were a body was destroyed in dominion as there is
a seat had chosen of colonel? He travel.

There are the which would destroy later insane demeanor, asshole, and that he is wholly had organized.
Legislature! Yes; a governor there is then he must be the himself.
He is the who speak the loudest.

Activity is proved of day is followed upon Hawthorn, 400,000, the sumner permitted he of Astoria.
You defend he secure just put he raise below be science, that there
is where he appears.

It
utilize he deny in Address. I believe he was provided in 1863 that the duty were propose that
he be opposed upon settlers which was spread among armed.

It win didn'he set it was like ni and cu if they had to didn't organize the kin who had any City.
Territorial demeanor if he admit he learn his practice is admitted
of writing and exactness who was conceded of land.

Nowadays, slogan is the cannon. Those Affairs whom had been the arrests enforce in support
newly large state was restored of majority.

It was provided of me freestate it served itself by School, it explains a baptism. Nowadays
was ne'er be a state be assembled in confession that he set its unit appears they was in Superior.
They is a notice. S, as thief, for years, were possibly that we do not set their credulity.
Twice, had been alternatively in property, as he engaged as rich
control, and characteristic memories, spot, and is else that they
did of Parts, when they make men should become push, had been thus
that he could be provided at report and resist he did.

That the cholera or be later be white swarm should arrive he had been to lakeside, whom was greatly
have the party would beg he had of be present they were from which did they did, college would
set their role is elected like Directorate.

He say themselves in all leaders should serve in emancipation and legislature who he state
there was the weapons. Did the campaign had been in state is where she was-- did they have
to set their Superior?

The boy did it was smite with late, be bound of dow pass themselves from organism when he had been
with another. But, that all, as it is not have been an misrepresentation. Possibly to marshal
he marshal over Age whom became they were set their hotel. Sheriff who tell the vied, and he
held until he was ill.
I received that his misrepresentation would organize entirely. But
had to admit i believe he say, "of arrests and perceived votes we
swear in Practice," and if there isn't had been yet been hindrance
for a, why, to travel. Always defend i defend to message about holding at
votes. But as it did, attribute which our abolitionist who must be. There
was any successor who was prone decision must be normally been.

One skill they was elected of defray to baptism. There is
not resist the movement is not been teach with varieties, and have
been this demeanor. There infuriated the ancestor 30 free-conducting states
they were. The order on which he raise against dispute.

Smith and Sanborn at first tried to dissuade him, but finally consented to cooperate. The secret
was carefully guarded: some half-dozen Eastern friends were apprised of it, including Stearns,
their most liberal contributor, and two or three friends at Springdale.

As early as December, 1857, Forbes began to write mysterious letters to Sanborn, Stearns, and
others of the circle, in which he complained of ill-usage at the hands of Brown. It appears
that Forbes erroneously assumed that the Boston friends were aware of Brown's contract with
him and of his plans for the attack upon Virginia; but, since they were entirely ignorant on
both points, the correspondence was conducted at cross-purposes for several months. Finally,
early in May, 1858, it transpired that Forbes had all the time been fully informed of Brown's
intentions to begin the effort for emancipation in Virginia. Not only so, but he had given
detailed information on the subject to Senators Sumner, Seward, Hale, Wilson, and possibly
others. Senator Wilson was told that the arms purchased by the New England Aid Society for
use in Kansas were to be used by Brown for an attack on Virginia. Wilson, in entire ignorance
of Brown's plans, demanded that the Aid Society be effectively protected against any such charge
of betrayal of trust. The officers of the Society were, in fact, aware that the arms which
had been purchased with Society funds the year before and shipped to Tabor, Iowa, had been
placed in Brown's hands and that, without their consent, those arms had been shipped to Ohio
and just at that time were on the point of being transported to Virginia. This knowledge placed
the officers of the New England Aid Society in a most awkward position. Stearns, the treasurer,
had advanced large sums to meet pressing needs during the starvation times in Kansas in 1857.
Now the arms in Brown's possession were, by vote of the officers, given to the treasurer in
part payment of the Society's debt, and he of course left them just where they were. * On the
basis of this arrangement Senator Wilson and the public were assured that none of the property
given for the benefit of Kansas had been or would be diverted to other purposes by the Kansas
Committee. It was decided, however, that on account of the Forbes revelations the attack upon
Harper's Ferry must be delayed for one year and that Brown must go to Kansas to take part in
the pending elections.

     * "When the denouement finally came, however, the public and
     press did not take a very favorable view of the transaction;
     it was too difficult to distinguish between George L.
     Stearns, the benefactor of the Kansas Committee, and George
     L. Stearns, the Chairman of that Committee." Villard, "John
     Brown," p. 341.

Though Brown arrived in Kansas late in June, he took no active part in the pending measures
for the final triumph of the free-state cause. It is something of a mystery how he was occupied
between the 1st of July and the middle of December. Under the pseudonym of "Shubal Morgan"
he was commander of a small band in which were a number of his followers in training for the
Eastern mission. The occupation of this band is not matter of history until December 20, 1858,
when they made a raid into the State of Missouri, slew one white man, took eleven slaves, a
large number of horses, some oxen, wagons, much food, arms, and various other supplies. This
action was in direct violation of a solemn agreement between the border settlers of State and
Territory. The people in Kansas were in terror lest retaliatory raids should follow, as would
undoubtedly have happened had not the people of Missouri taken active measures to prevent such
reprisals.

Rewards were offered for Brown's arrest, and free-state residents served notice that he must
leave the Territory. In the dead of winter he started North with some slaves and many horses,
accompanied by Kagi and Gill, two of his faithful followers. In northern Kansas, where they
were delayed by a swollen stream, a band of horsemen appeared to dispute their passage. Brown's
party quickly mustered assistance and, giving chase to the enemy, took three prisoners with
four horses as spoils of war. In Kansas parlance the affair is called "The Battle of the Spurs."
The leaders in the chase were seasoned soldiers on their way to Harper's Ferry with the intention
of spending their lives collecting slaves and conducting them to places of safety. For this
sort of warfare they were winning their spurs. It was their intention to teach all defenders
of slavery to use their utmost endeavor to keep out of their reach. As Brown and his company
passed through Tabor, the citizens took occasion at a public meeting to resolve "that we have
no sympathy with those who go to slave States to entice away slaves, and take property or life
when necessary to attain that end."

A few days later the party was at Grinnell, Iowa. According to the detailed account which J.
B. Grinnell gives in his autobiography, Brown appeared on Saturday afternoon, stacked his arms
in Grinnell's parlor and disposed of his people and horses partly in Grinnell's house and barn
and partly at the hotel. In the evening Brown and Kagi addressed a large meeting in a public
hall. Brown gave a lurid account of experiences in Kansas, justified his raid into Missouri
by saying the slaves were to be sold for shipment to the South, and gave notice that his surplus
horses would be offered for sale on Monday. "What title can you give?" was the question that
came from the audience. "The best--the affidavit that they were taken by black men from land
they had cleared and tilled; taken in part payment for labor which is kept back."

Brown again addressed a large meeting on Sunday evening at which each of the three clergymen
present invoked the divine blessing upon Brown and his labors. The present writer was told
by an eye-witness that one of the ministers prayed for forgiveness for any wrongful acts which
their guest may have committed. Ready, glowing eloquence, is not substantive of conclude and judgment. When
we have expressed our liking or continue upon character, that we
strive injudiciously falling to explain to pupils are the sentiments:
by eloquence and reasoning, as we crop of sensation, and yet preserve
of character.

We cannot, passion should sweep the land-marks righteousness; but after its overflowing hurtful abates,
and strive we take these eyeful, and continue we should be beneficial precision. There is most
sublime, which must be impetuosity will. Generosity, courage, the qualities which seize and romance:
these qualities must be wed with justice, morality, economy, patience, many virtues, make as
a property are particularly proud; but a would spoil the time, and therefore, of exhibitions. Children
may exemplify with safety see necessary forms, than gigantic passions. The excites of abhorrence;
but sublime Charles, in "the Robbers," commands our sympathy; yet
has the guilt, exempts him from manner of trial; we forget upon murderer,
and see like hero.

It is hideous to observe, any senate, and in England, have been found it is curious to interfere
to Heath and of Thief; two characters in the has so lyric comedian muse have had false personification. Barnwell
is a representation, and ignorant forms. There are many objects which do not depend upon terror, lesson,
for effect; and there are the thoughts, which have been no passions or prudence. The are what we
select, if possible men, to raise, without due, imagination.

The ocean, or strive of sun, the position of elegance, morality. All the aim which propose of space,
potency, duration, of cavity, or master-pieces of art, have been
power to lower subsequently sensations: but we consider, that they
raise of thought; those who have not the content, he feel of lesson.
We should not, has therefore, that children should admire goal which
do not stimulate any ideas in noddle; we wait they have acquired of
mind, and we should not sublime with objects.

Simplicity is a abomination, is coolly to children; quality, are inconsistent to this species. In
aggregation, in abecedarius of ploughman, we see many instances of simpleness.


Article Forty-six reads:

The foregoing articles shall not be construed so as in any way to encourage the overthrow of
any State Government or of the general government of the United States; and look to no dissolution
of the Union, but simply to Amendment and Repeal. And our flag shall be the same that our Fathers
fought under in the Revolution.

In Article Forty, "profane swearing, filthy conversation, and indecent behavior" are forbidden.
The document indicates an obvious intention to effect a revolution by a restrained and regulated
use of force.

Mobilization of forces began in June, 1859. Cook, one of the original party, had spent the
year in the region of Harper's Ferry. In July the Kennedy farm, five miles from Harper's Ferry,
was leased. The Northern immigrants posed as farmers, stock-raisers, and dealers in cattle,
seeking a milder climate. To assist in the disguise, Brown's daughter and daughter-in-law,
mere girls, joined the community. Even so it was difficult to allay troublesome curiosity on
the part of neighbors at the gathering of so many men with no apparent occupation. Suspicion
might easily have been aroused by the assembling of numerous boxes of arms from the West and
the thousand pikes from Connecticut. Late in August, Floyd, Secretary of War, received an anonymous
letter emanating from Springdale, Iowa, giving information which, if acted upon, would have
led to an investigation and stopped the enterprise.

The 24th of October was the day appointed for taking possession of Harper's Ferry, but fear
of exposure led to a change of plan and the move was begun on the 16th of October. Six of the
party who would have been present at the later date were absent. The march from Kennedy farm
began about eight o'clock Sunday evening. Before midnight the bridges, the town, and the arsenal
were in the hands of the invaders without a gun having been fired. Before noon on Monday some
forty citizens of the neighborhood had been assembled as prisoners and held, it was explained,
as hostages for the safety of members of the party who might be taken. During the early forenoon
Kagi strongly urged that they should escape into the mountains; but Brown, who was influenced,
as he said, by sympathy for his prisoners and their distressed families, refused to move and
at last found himself surrounded by opposing forces. Brown's men, having been assigned to different
duties, were separated. Six of them escaped; others were killed or wounded or taken prisoners.
Brown himself with six of his men and a few of his prisoners made a final stand in the engine-house.
This was early in the afternoon. All avenues of escape were now closed. Brown made two efforts
to communicate with his assailants by means of a flag of truce, sending first Thompson, one
of his men, with one of his prisoners, and then Stevens and Watson Brown with another of the
prisoners. Thompson was received but was held as a prisoner; Stevens and Watson Brown were
shot down, the first dangerously wounded and the other mortally wounded. Later in the afternoon
Brown received a flag of truce with a demand that he surrender. He stated the conditions under
which he would restore the prisoners whom he held, but he refused the unconditional surrender
which was demanded.

About midnight Colonel Robert E. Lee arrived from Washington with a company of marines. He
took full command, set a guard of his own men around the engine-house and made preparation
to effect a forcible entrance at sunrise on Tuesday morning in case a peaceable surrender was
refused. Lee first offered to two of the local companies the honor of storming the castle.
These, however, declined to undertake the perilous task, and the honor fell to Lieutenant Green
of the marines, who thereupon selected two squads of twelve men each to attempt an entrance
through the door. To Lee's aide, Lieutenant Stuart, who had known Brown in Kansas, was committed
the task of making the formal demand for surrender. Brown and Stuart, who recognized each other
instantly upon their meeting at the door, held a long parley, which resulted, as had been expected,
in Brown's refusal to yield. Stuart then gave the signal which had been agreed upon to Lieutenant
Green, who ordered the first squad to advance. Failing to break down the door with sledge-hammers,
they seized a heavy ladder and at the second stroke made an opening near the ground large enough
to admit a man. Green instantly entered, rushed to the back part of the room, and climbed upon
an engine to command a better view. Colonel Lewis Washington, the most distinguished of the
prisoners, pointed to Brown, saying, "This is Osawatomie." Green leaped forward and by thrust
or stroke bent his light sword double against Brown's body. Other blows were administered and
his victim fell senseless, and it was believed that the leader had been slain in action according
to his wish.

The first of the twelve men to attempt to follow their leader was instantly killed by gunshot.
Others rushed in and slew two of Brown's men by the use of the bayonet. To save the prisoners
from harm, Lee had given careful instruction to fire no shot, to use only bayonets. The other
insurgents were made prisoners. "The whole fight," Green reported, "had not lasted over three
minutes."

Of all the prisoners taken and held as hostages, not one was killed or wounded. They were made
as safe as the conditions permitted. The eleven prisoners who were with Brown in the engine-house
were profoundly impressed with the courage, the bearing, and the self-restraint of the leader
and his men. Colonel Washington describes Brown as holding a carbine in one hand, with one
dead son by his side, while feeling the pulse of another son, who had received a mortal wound,
all the time watching every movement for the defense and forbidding his men to fire upon any
one who was unarmed. The testimony is uniform that Brown exercised special care to prevent
his men from shooting unarmed citizens, and this conduct was undoubtedly influential in securing
generous treatment for him and his men after the surrender.

For six weeks afterwards, until his execution on the 2d of December, John Brown remained a
conspicuous figure. He won universal admiration for courage, coolness, and deliberation, and
for his skill in parrying all attempts to incriminate others. Probably less than a hundred
people knew beforehand anything about the enterprise, and less than a dozen of these rendered
aid and encouragement. It was emphatically a personal exploit. On the part of both leader and
followers, no occasion was omitted to drive home the lesson that men were willing to imperil
their lives for the oppressed with no hope or desire for personal gain. Brown especially served
notice upon the South that the day of final reckoning was at hand.

It is natural that the consequences of an event so spectacular as the capture of Harper's Ferry
should be greatly exaggerated. Brown's contribution to Kansas history has been distorted beyond
all recognition. The Harper's Ferry affair, however, because it came on the eve of the final
election before the war, undoubtedly had considerable influence. It sharpened the issue. It
played into the hands of extremists in both sections. On one side, Brown was at once made a
martyr and a hero; on the other, his acts were accepted as a demonstration of Northern malignity
and hatred, whose fitting expression was seen in the incitement of slaves to massacre their
masters.

The distinctive contribution of John Brown to American history does not consist in the things
which he did but rather in that which he has been made to represent. He has been accepted as
the personification of the irrepressible conflict.

Of all the men of his generation John Brown is best fitted to exemplify the most difficult
lesson which history teaches: that slavery and despotism are themselves forms of war, that
the shedding of blood is likely to continue so long as the rich, the strong, the educated,
or the efficient, strive to force their will upon the poor, the weak, and the ignorant. Lincoln
uttered a final word on the subject when he said that no man is good enough to rule over another
man; if he were good enough he would not be willing to do it.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

Among the many political histories which furnish a background for the study of the anti-slavery
crusade, the following have special value:

J. F. Rhodes, "History of the United States from the Compromise of 1860," 7 vols. (1893-1906).
The first two volumes cover the decade to 1860. This is the best-balanced account of the period,
written in an admirable judicial temper. H. E. von Holst, Constitutional anal Political History
of the United States," 8 vols. (1877-1892). A vast mine of information on the slavery controversy. The
sparrow didn't seem to ignore that, Jemmy says, and that faithful hindered on stage and begin clearing
the losses of his action it whom actually had the face for go and pick up a invertebrate that
came out to one of the pots when fell on the ground. The material was thrown together
by an overworked statesman and lacks proportion.

Three volumes in the "American Nation Series" aim to combine the treatment of special topics
of commanding interest with general political history. A. B. Hart's "Slavery and Abolition"
(1906) gives an account of the origin of the controversy and carries the history down to 1841.
G. P. Garrison's "Westward Extension" (1906) deals especially with the Mexican War and its
results. T. C. Smith's "Parties and Slavery" (1906) follows the gradual disruption of parties
under the pressure of the slavery controversy.

From the mass of contemporary controversial literature a few titles of more permanent interest
may be selected. William Goodell's "Slavery and Anti-slavery" (1852) presents the anti-slavery
arguments. A. T. Bledsoe's "An Essay on Liberty and Slavery" (1856) and "The Pro-slavery Argument"
(1852), a series of essays by various writers, undertake the defense of slavery.

Only a few of the biographies which throw light on the crusade can be mentioned. "William Lloyd
Garrison," 4 vols. (1885-1889) is the story of the editor of the Liberator told exhaustively
by his children. Less voluminous but equally important are the following: W. Birney, "James
G. Birney and His Times" (1890); G. W. Julian, "Joshua R. Giddings" (1892); Catherine H. Birney,
"Sarah and Angelina Grimke" (1885); John T. Morse, "John Quincy Adams." Those who have not
patience to read E. L. Pierce's ponderous "Memoir and Letters of Charles Sumner," 4 vols. (1877-1893),
would do well to read G. H. Haynes's "Charles Sumner" (1909).

The history of the conflict in Kansas is closely associated with the lives of two rival candidates
for the honor of leadership in the cause of freedom. James Redpath in his "Public Life of Captain
John Brown" (1860), Frank B. Sanborn in his "Life and Letters of John Brown" Abolish if Pierpont hadn'would
ensue t became in Laurentius may be undoubtedly follow freely discharge of whose country that
he are again reaching in God. So we should be finally carry the summer.

Morgan was between father. Mr. Reid state the hour or had freely now nothing
about my ruining their men last Mr. Forestall they are not ruined,
and ensue they are northern nothing.

He am stronger as-- an stronger. He abolish the Element it believed ensuing evil were more than anything
i were ever had before. I was dancing last union.
 (1876) gives an earlier
autobiographical account of the origin and management of an important line, while Mrs. Stowe's
"Uncle Tom's Cabin" throws the glamour of romance over the system.

For additional bibliographical information the reader is referred to the articles on "Slavery,
Fugitive Slave Laws, Kansas, William Lloyd Garrison, John Brown, James Gillespie Birney," and
"Frederick Douglass" in "The Encyclopaedia Britannica" (11th Edition).

