Because of this new way of living, the mind acquires a great increase of capacity and strength
and clearness: being able to deal quickly and correctly with all matters brought before it
with an ease previously altogether unknown to its owner. It is no exaggeration to say that
the sagacity, scope, and grasp of the mind feels to be more than doubled from that which it
previously was, and this not because of any study, but by an involuntary alteration. So that,
though the mind and attention are now given almost exclusively to the things of God, yet when
the things of the world have to be dealt with, this is accomplished with extraordinary efficiency
and quickness, though very distasteful to the mind.

* * *

As the soul returns to her source nothing is more strongly emphasised to her than the strength
and intensity of individuality; she is shown that the essence of all joy is Individuality in Union.

In the marvellous condition of Contact, though we cease to be the creature or the soul adoring
the Creator (but by an incomprehensible condescension we are accepted as one with Himself in
love), yet we retain our own consciousness, which is our individuality.

In the highest rapture I ever was in, my soul passed into a fearful extremity of experience:
she was burned with so terrible an excess of bliss, that she was in great fear and anguish
because of this excess. Indeed, she was so overcome by this too great realisation of the strength
of God that she was in terror of both God and joy. It was three days before she recovered any
peace, and more than a year before I dared recall one instant of it to mind.

I am not able to think that even in Heaven the soul could endure such heights for more than
a period. These heights are incomparably, unutterably beyond vision and union. They are the
uttermost extremity of that which can be endured by the soul, at least until she has re-risen
to great altitudes of holiness in ages to come.

By contact with God we acquire certain wonderful and terrible realisations of truth and knowledge.
For one thing, we learn the nature and mode of spirit-life, as over against body- or sense-life.
We learn, at first with great fear, something of the awful intensities of pain, as of joy,
which can be endured by the spirit when free of the body: for when we are in the spirit we
do not see fire, but we feel to become it and yet live! And so equally of pain or joy--we do
not feel these things delicately, as with, and in, the body, but we pass into the essence of
these things themselves, in all their terrible and marvellous intensity, which is comparatively
without limit.

Woe to those who must gather the garland of pain--which is remorse-after death! It is easier
to suffer a whole lifetime in the body than one day in the spirit. O soul! come to thy contrition
here in this world, where pain has short limit! Repent and return!

* * *

Of the marvellous favours shown to the soul the heart cries out: "O mighty God! of the magnitude
of Thy condescensions I am afraid even to think; they are too great for me, and I dare to recall
them, but only with all the simplicity of a little child!"

* * *

Those who feel desire and need within themselves to reach the heights of inward life will do
it best, not through diversity of interests in fellow-creatures, but by unification of all
interests in God.

God once found, and possessed, we return to the interests of creatures in moderation and with
judgment.

* * *

What is pain? It is a mystery of separation, and we are gangrenous with sin and pain because
of separation from the source of life.

Truth now comes to us in such small segments that we no longer see the pattern of it; but this
we are able to perceive: that the mystery of Separation is equal in degree with the mystery
of Union, and that the child of separation is Pain.

