 He thought
of the misery of Roger Scatcherd's wife, thought also of her health, and strength, and active
habits; and thus Mrs Scatcherd became the foster-mother to young Frank Gresham.

One other episode we must tell of past times. Previous to his father's death, Dr Thorne was
in love. Nor had he altogether sighed and pleaded in vain; though it had not quite come to
that, that the young lady's friends, or even the young lady herself, had actually accepted
his suit. At that time his name stood well in Barchester. His father was a prebendary; his
cousins and his best friends were the Thornes of Ullathorne, and the lady, who shall be nameless,
was not thought to be injudicious in listening to the young doctor. But when Henry Thorne went
so far astray, when the old doctor died, when the young doctor quarrelled with Ullathorne,
when the brother was killed in a disgraceful quarrel, and it turned out that the physician
had nothing but his profession and no settled locality in which to exercise it; then, indeed,
the young lady's friends thought that she was injudicious, and the young lady herself had not
spirit enough, or love enough, to be disobedient. In those stormy days of the trial she told
Dr Thorne that perhaps it would be wise that they should not see each other any more.

Dr Thorne, so counselled, at such a moment,--so informed then, when he most required comfort
from his love, at once swore loudly that he agreed with her. He rushed forth with a bursting
heart, and said to himself that the world was bad, all bad. He saw the lady no more; and, if
I am rightly informed, never again made matrimonial overtures to any one.

CHAPTER III

Dr Thorne

And thus Dr Thorne became settled for life in the little village of Greshamsbury. As was then
the wont with many country practitioners, and as should be the wont with them all if they consulted
their own dignity a little less and the comforts of their customers somewhat more, he added
the business of a dispensing apothecary to that of physician. In doing so, he was of course
much reviled. Many people around him declared that he could not truly be a doctor, or, at any
rate, a doctor to be so called; and his brethren in the art living around him, though they
knew that his diplomas, degrees, and certificates were all en règle, rather countenanced the
report. There was much about this new-comer which did not endear him to his own profession.
In the first place he was a new-comer, and, as such, was of course to be regarded by other
doctors as being de trop. Greshamsbury was only fifteen miles from Barchester, where there
was a regular dépôt of medical skill, and but eight from Silverbridge, where a properly established
physician had been in residence for the last forty years. Dr Thorne's predecessor at Greshamsbury
had been a humble-minded general practitioner, gifted with a due respect for the physicians
of the county; and he, though he had been allowed to physic the servants, and sometimes the
children of Greshamsbury, had never had the presumption to put himself on a par with his betters.

Then, also, Dr Thorne, though a graduated physician, though entitled beyond all dispute to
call himself a doctor, according to all the laws of all the colleges, made it known to the
East Barsetshire world, very soon after he had seated himself at Greshamsbury, that his rate
of pay was to be seven-and-sixpence a visit within a circuit of five miles, with a proportionally
increased charge at proportionally increased distances. Now there was something low, mean,
unprofessional, and democratic in this; so, at least, said the children of Æsculapius gathered
together in conclave at Barchester. In the first place, it showed that this Thorne was always
thinking of his money, like an apothecary, as he was; whereas, it would have behoved him, as
a physician, had he had the feelings of a physician under his hat, to have regarded his own
pursuits in a purely philosophical spirit, and to have taken any gain which might have accrued
as an accidental adjunct to his station in life. A physician should take his fee without letting
his left hand know what his right hand was doing; it should be taken without a thought, without
a look, without a move of the facial muscles; the true physician should hardly be aware that
the last friendly grasp of the hand had been made more precious by the touch of gold. Whereas,
that fellow Thorne would lug out half a crown from his breeches pocket and give it in change
for a ten shilling piece. And then it was clear that this man had no appreciation of the dignity
of a learned profession. He might constantly be seen compounding medicines in the shop, at
the left hand of his front door; not making experiments philosophically in materia medica for
the benefit of coming ages--which, if he did, he should have done in the seclusion of his study,
far from profane eyes--but positively putting together common powders for rural bowels, or
spreading vulgar ointments for agricultural ailments.

A man of this sort was not fit society for Dr Fillgrave of Barchester. That must be admitted.
And yet he had been found to be fit society for the old squire of Greshamsbury, whose shoe-ribbons
Dr Fillgrave would not have objected to tie; so high did the old squire stand in the county
just previous to his death. But the spirit of the Lady Arabella was known by the medical profession
of Barsetshire, and when that good man died it was felt that Thorne's short tenure of Greshamsbury
favour was already over. The Barsetshire regulars were, however, doomed to disappointment.
Our doctor had already contrived to endear himself to the heir; and though there was not even
then much personal love between him and the Lady Arabella, he kept his place at the great house
unmoved, not only in the nursery and in the bedrooms, but also at the squire's dining-table.

Now there was in this, it must be admitted, quite enough to make him unpopular with his brethren;
and this feeling was soon shown in a marked and dignified manner. Dr Fillgrave, who had certainly
the most respectable professional connexion in the county, who had a reputation to maintain,
and who was accustomed to meet, on almost equal terms, the great medical baronets from the
metropolis at the houses of the nobility--Dr Fillgrave declined to meet Dr Thorne in consultation.
He exceedingly regretted, he said, most exceedingly, the necessity which he felt of doing so:
he had never before had to perform so painful a duty; but, as a duty which he owed to his profession,
he must perform it. With every feeling of respect for Lady ----, a sick guest at Greshamsbury--and
for Mr Gresham, he must decline to attend in conjunction with Dr Thorne. If his services could
be made available under any other circumstances, he would go to Greshamsbury as fast as post-horses
could carry him.

Then, indeed, there was war in Barsetshire. If there was on Dr Thorne's cranium one bump more
developed than another, it was that of combativeness. Not that the doctor was a bully, or even
pugnacious, in the usual sense of the word; he had no disposition to provoke a fight, no propense
love of quarrelling; but there was that in him which would allow him to yield to no attack.
Neither in argument nor in contest would he ever allow himself to be wrong; never at least
to any one but to himself; and on behalf of his special hobbies, he was ready to meet the world
at large.

It will therefore be understood, that when such a gauntlet was thus thrown in his very teeth
by Dr Fillgrave, he was not slow to take it up. He addressed a letter to the Barsetshire Conservative
Standard, in which he attacked Dr Fillgrave with some considerable acerbity. Dr Fillgrave responded
in four lines, saying that on mature consideration he had made up his mind not to notice any
remarks that might be made on him by Dr Thorne in the public press. The Greshamsbury doctor
then wrote another letter, more witty and much more severe than the last; and as this was copied
into the Bristol, Exeter, and Gloucester papers, Dr Fillgrave found it very difficult to maintain
the magnanimity of his reticence. It is sometimes becoming enough for a man to wrap himself
in the dignified toga of silence, and proclaim himself indifferent to public attacks; but it
is a sort of dignity which it is very difficult to maintain. As well might a man, when stung
to madness by wasps, endeavour to sit in his chair without moving a muscle, as endure with
patience and without reply the courtesies of a newspaper opponent. Dr Thorne wrote a third
letter, which was too much for medical flesh and blood to bear. Dr Fillgrave answered it, not,
indeed, in his own name, but in that of a brother doctor; and then the war raged merrily. It
is hardly too much to say that Dr Fillgrave never knew another happy hour. Had he dreamed of
what materials was made that young compounder of doses at Greshamsbury he would have met him
in consultation, morning, noon, and night, without objection; but having begun the war, he
was constrained to go on with it: his brethren would allow him no alternative. Thus he was
continually being brought up to the fight, as a prize-fighter may be seen to be, who is carried
up round after round, without any hope on his own part, and who, in each round, drops to the
ground before the very wind of his opponent's blows.

But Dr Fillgrave, though thus weak himself, was backed in practice and in countenance by nearly
all his brethren in the county. The guinea fee, the principle of giving advice and of selling
no medicine, the great resolve to keep a distinct barrier between the physician and the apothecary,
and, above all, the hatred of the contamination of a bill, were strong in the medical mind
of Barsetshire. Dr Thorne had the provincial medical world against him, and so he appealed
to the metropolis. The Lancet took the matter up in his favour, but the Journal of Medical
Science was against him; the Weekly Chirurgeon, noted for its medical democracy, upheld him
as a medical prophet, but the Scalping Knife, a monthly periodical got up in dead opposition
to the Lancet, showed him no mercy. So the war went on, and our doctor, to a certain extent,
became a noted character.

He had, moreover, other difficulties to encounter in his professional career. It was something
in his favour that he understood his business; something that he was willing to labour at it
with energy; and resolved to labour at it conscientiously. He had also other gifts, such as
conversational brilliancy, an aptitude for true good fellowship, firmness in friendship, and
general honesty of disposition, which stood him in stead as he advanced in life. But, at his
first starting, much that belonged to himself personally was against him. Let him enter what
house he would, he entered it with a conviction, often expressed to himself, that he was equal
as a man to the proprietor, equal as a human being to the proprietress. To age he would allow
deference, and to special recognised talent--at least so he said; to rank also, he would pay
that respect which was its clear and recognised prerogative; he would let a lord walk out of
a room before him if he did not happen to forget it; in speaking to a duke he would address
him as his Grace; and he would in no way assume a familiarity with bigger men than himself,
allowing to the bigger man the privilege of making the first advances. But beyond this he would
admit that no man should walk the earth with his head higher than his own.

He did not talk of these things much; he offended no rank by boasts of his own equality; he
did not absolutely tell the Earl de Courcy in words, that the privilege of dining at Courcy
Castle was to him no greater than the privilege of dining at Courcy Parsonage; but there was
that in his manner that told it. The feeling in itself was perhaps good, and was certainly
much justified by the manner in which he bore himself to those below him in rank; but there
was folly in the resolution to run counter to the world's recognised rules on such matters;
and much absurdity in his mode of doing so, seeing that at heart he was a thorough Conservative.
It is hardly too much to say that he naturally hated a lord at first sight; but, nevertheless,
he would have expended his means, his blood, and spirit, in fighting for the upper house of
Parliament.

Such a disposition, until it was thoroughly understood, did not tend to ingratiate him with
the wives of the country gentlemen among whom he had to look for practice. And then, also,
there was not much in his individual manner to recommend him to the favour of ladies. He was
brusque, authoritative, given to contradiction, rough though never dirty in his personal belongings,
and inclined to indulge in a sort of quiet raillery, which sometimes was not thoroughly understood.
People did not always know whether he was laughing at them or with them; and some people were,
perhaps, inclined to think that a doctor should not laugh at all when called in to act doctorially.

When he was known, indeed, when the core of the fruit had been reached, when the huge proportions
of that loving trusting heart had been learned, and understood, and appreciated, when that
honesty had been recognised, that manly, and almost womanly tenderness had been felt, then,
indeed, the doctor was acknowledged to be adequate in his profession. To trifling ailments
he was too often brusque. Seeing that he accepted money for the cure of such, he should, we
may say, have cured them without an offensive manner. So far he is without defence. But to
real suffering no one found him brusque; no patient lying painfully on a bed of sickness ever
thought him rough.

Another misfortune was, that he was a bachelor. Ladies think, and I, for one, think that ladies
are quite right in so thinking, that doctors should be married men. All the world feels that
a man when married acquires some of the attributes of an old woman--he becomes, to a certain
extent, a motherly sort of being; he acquires a conversance with women's ways and women's wants,
and loses the wilder and offensive sparks of his virility. It must be easier to talk to such
a one about Matilda's stomach, and the growing pains in Fanny's legs, than to a young bachelor.
This impediment also stood much in Dr Thorne's way during his first years at Greshamsbury.

But his wants were not at first great; and though his ambition was perhaps high, it was not
of an impatient nature. The world was his oyster; but, circumstanced as he was, he knew that
it was not for him to open it with his lancet all at once. He had bread to earn, which he must
earn wearily; he had a character to make, which must come slowly; it satisfied his soul that,
in addition to his immortal hopes, he had a possible future in this world to which he could
look forward with clear eyes, and advance with a heart that would know no fainting.

On his first arrival at Greshamsbury he had been put by the squire into a house, which he still
occupied when that squire's grandson came of age. There were two decent, commodious, private
houses in the village--always excepting the rectory, which stood grandly in its own grounds,
and, therefore, was considered as ranking above the village residences--of these two Dr Thorne
had the smaller. They stood exactly at the angle before described, on the outer side of it,
and at right angles to each other. They both possessed good stables and ample gardens; and
it may be as well to specify, that Mr Umbleby, the agent and lawyer to the estate, occupied
the larger one.

Here Dr Thorne lived for eleven or twelve years, all alone; and then for ten or eleven more
with his niece, Mary Thorne. Mary was thirteen when she came to take up permanent abode as
mistress of the establishment--or, at any rate, to act as the only mistress which the establishment
possessed. This advent greatly changed the tenor of the doctor's ways. He had been before pure
bachelor; not a room in his house had been comfortably furnished; he at first commenced in
a makeshift sort of way, because he had not at his command the means of commencing otherwise;
and he had gone on in the same fashion, because the exact time had never come at which it was
imperative in him to set his house in order. He had had no fixed hour for his meals, no fixed
place for his books, no fixed wardrobe for his clothes. He had a few bottles of good wine in
his cellar, and occasionally asked a brother bachelor to take a chop with him; but beyond this
he had touched very little on the cares of housekeeping. A slop-bowl full of strong tea, together
with bread, and butter, and eggs, was produced for him in the morning, and he expected that
at whatever hour he might arrive in the evening, some food should be presented to him wherewith
to satisfy the cravings of nature; if, in addition to this, he had another slop-bowl of tea
in the evening, he got all that he ever required, or all, at least, that he ever demanded.

But when Mary came, or rather, when she was about to come, things were altogether changed at
the doctor's. People had hitherto wondered--and especially Mrs Umbleby--how a gentleman like
Dr Thorne could continue to live in so slovenly a manner; and how people again wondered, and
again especially Mrs Umbleby, how the doctor could possibly think it necessary to put such
a lot of furniture into a house because a little chit of a girl of twelve years of age was
coming to live with him.

Mrs Umbleby had great scope for her wonder. The doctor made a thorough revolution in his household,
and furnished his house from the ground to the roof completely. He painted--for the first time
since the commencement of his tenancy--he papered, he carpeted, and curtained, and mirrored,
and linened, and blanketed, as though a Mrs Thorne with a good fortune were coming home to-morrow;
and all for a girl of twelve years old. "And how," said Mrs Umbleby, to her friend Miss Gushing,
"how did he find out what to buy?" as though the doctor had been brought up like a wild beast,
ignorant of the nature of tables and chairs, and with no more developed ideas of drawing-room
drapery than an hippopotamus.

To the utter amazement of Mrs Umbleby and Miss Gushing, the doctor did it all very well. He
said nothing about it to any one--he never did say much about such things--but he furnished
his house well and discreetly; and when Mary Thorne came home from her school at Bath, to which
she had been taken some six years previously, she found herself called upon to be the presiding
genius of a perfect paradise.

It has been said that the doctor had managed to endear himself to the new squire before the
old squire's death, and that, therefore, the change at Greshamsbury had had no professional
ill effects upon him. Such was the case at the time; but, nevertheless, all did not go smoothly
in the Greshamsbury medical department. There was six or seven years' difference in age between
Mr Gresham and the doctor, and, moreover, Mr Gresham was young for his age, and the doctor
old; but, nevertheless, there was a very close attachment between them early in life. This
was never thoroughly sundered, and, backed by this, the doctor did maintain himself for some
years before the fire of Lady Arabella's artillery. But drops falling, if they fall constantly,
will bore through a stone.

Dr Thorne's pretensions, mixed with his subversive professional democratic tendencies, his
seven-and-sixpenny visits, added to his utter disregard of Lady Arabella's airs, were too much
for her spirit. He brought Frank through his first troubles, and that at first ingratiated
her; he was equally successful with the early dietary of Augusta and Beatrice; but, as his
success was obtained in direct opposition to the Courcy Castle nursery principles, this hardly
did much in his favour. When the third daughter was born, he at once declared that she was
a very weakly flower, and sternly forbade the mother to go to London. The mother, loving her
babe, obeyed; but did not the less hate the doctor for the order, which she firmly believed
was given at the instance and express dictation of Mr Gresham. Then another little girl came
into the world, and the doctor was more imperative than ever as to the nursery rules and the
excellence of country air. Quarrels were thus engendered, and Lady Arabella was taught to believe
that this doctor of her husband's was after all no Solomon. In her husband's absence she sent
for Dr Fillgrave, giving very express intimation that he would not have to wound either his
eyes or dignity by encountering his enemy; and she found Dr Fillgrave a great comfort to her.

Then Dr Thorne gave Mr Gresham to understand that, under such circumstances, he could not visit
professionally at Greshamsbury any longer. The poor squire saw there was no help for it, and
though he still maintained his friendly connexion with his neighbour, the seven-and-sixpenny
visits were at an end. Dr Fillgrave from Barchester, and the gentleman at Silverbridge, divided
the responsibility between them, and the nursery principles of Courcy Castle were again in
vogue at Greshamsbury.

So things went on for years, and those years were years of sorrow. We must not ascribe to our
doctor's enemies the sufferings, and sickness, and deaths that occurred. The four frail little
ones that died would probably have been taken had Lady Arabella been more tolerant of Dr Thorne.
But the fact was, that they did die; and that the mother's heart then got the better of the
woman's pride, and Lady Arabella humbled herself before Dr Thorne. She humbled herself, or
would have done so, had the doctor permitted her. But he, with his eyes full of tears, stopped
the utterance of her apology, took her two hands in his, pressed them warmly, and assured her
that his joy in returning would be great, for the love that he bore to all that belonged to
Greshamsbury. And so the seven-and-sixpenny visits were recommenced; and the great triumph
of Dr Fillgrave came to an end.

Great was the joy in the Greshamsbury nursery when the second change took place. Among the
doctor's attributes, not hitherto mentioned, was an aptitude for the society of children. He
delighted to talk to children, and to play with them. He would carry them on his back, three
or four at a time, roll with them on the ground, race with them in the garden, invent games
for them, contrive amusements in circumstances which seemed quite adverse to all manner of
delight; and, above all, his physic was not nearly so nasty as that which came from Silverbridge.

He had a great theory as to the happiness of children; and though he was not disposed altogether
to throw over the precepts of Solomon--always bargaining that he should, under no circumstances,
be himself the executioner--he argued that the principal duty which a parent owed to a child
was to make him happy. Not only was the man to be made happy--the future man, if that might
be possible--but the existing boy was to be treated with equal favour; and his happiness, so
said the doctor, was of much easier attainment.

"Why struggle after future advantage at the expense of present pain, seeing that the results
were so very doubtful?" Many an opponent of the doctor had thought to catch him on the hip
when so singular a doctrine was broached; but they were not always successful. "What!" said
his sensible enemies, "is Johnny not to be taught to read because he does not like it?" "Johnny
must read by all means," would the doctor answer; "but is it necessary that he should not like
it? If the preceptor have it in him, may not Johnny learn, not only to read, but to like to
learn to read?"

"But," would say his enemies, "children must be controlled." "And so must men also," would
say the doctor. "I must not steal your peaches, nor make love to your wife, nor libel your
character. Much as I might wish through my natural depravity to indulge in such vices, I am
debarred from them without pain, and I may almost say without unhappiness."

And so the argument went on, neither party convincing the other. But, in the meantime, the
children of the neighbourhood became very fond of Dr Thorne.

Dr Thorne and the squire were still fast friends, but circumstances had occurred, spreading
themselves now over a period of many years, which almost made the poor squire uneasy in the
doctor's company. Mr Gresham owed a large sum of money, and he had, moreover, already sold
a portion of his property. Unfortunately it had been the pride of the Greshams that their acres
had descended from one to another without an entail, so that each possessor of Greshamsbury
had had the full power to dispose of the property as he pleased. Any doubt as to its going
to the male heir had never hitherto been felt. It had occasionally been encumbered by charges
for younger children; but these charges had been liquidated, and the property had come down
without any burden to the present squire. Now a portion of this had been sold, and it had been
sold to a certain degree through the agency of Dr Thorne.

This made the squire an unhappy man. No man loved his family name and honour, his old family
blazon and standing more thoroughly than he did; he was every whit a Gresham at heart; but
his spirit had been weaker than that of his forefathers; and, in his days, for the first time,
the Greshams were to go to the wall! Ten years before the beginning of our story it had been
necessary to raise a large sum of money to meet and pay off pressing liabilities, and it was
found that this could be done with more material advantage by selling a portion of the property
than in any other way. A portion of it, about a third of the whole in value, was accordingly sold.

Boxall Hill lay half-way between Greshamsbury and Barchester, and was known as having the best
partridge shooting in the county; as having on it also a celebrated fox cover, Boxall Gorse,
held in very high repute by Barsetshire sportsmen. There was no residence on the immediate
estate, and it was altogether divided from the remainder of the Greshamsbury property. This,
with many inward and outward groans, Mr Gresham permitted to be sold.

It was sold, and sold well, by private contract to a native of Barchester, who, having risen
from the world's ranks, had made for himself great wealth. Somewhat of this man's character
must hereafter be told; it will suffice to say that he relied for advice in money matters upon
Dr Thorne, and that at Dr Thorne's suggestion he had purchased Boxall Hill, partridge-shooting
and gorse cover all included. He had not only bought Boxall Hill, but had subsequently lent
the squire large sums of money on mortgage, in all which transactions the doctor had taken
part. It had therefore come to pass that Mr Gresham was not unfrequently called upon to discuss
his money affairs with Dr Thorne, and occasionally to submit to lectures and advice which might
perhaps as well have been omitted.

So much for Dr Thorne. A few words must still be said about Miss Mary before we rush into our
story; the crust will then have been broken, and the pie will be open to the guests. Little
Miss Mary was kept at a farm-house till she was six; she was then sent to school at Bath, and
transplanted to the doctor's newly furnished house a little more than six years after that.
It must not be supposed that he had lost sight of his charge during her earlier years. He was
much too well aware of the nature of the promise which he had made to the departing mother
to do that. He had constantly visited his little niece, and long before the first twelve years
of her life were over had lost all consciousness of his promise, and of his duty to the mother,
in the stronger ties of downright personal love for the only creature that belonged to him.

When Mary came home the doctor was like a child in his glee. He prepared surprises for her
with as much forethought and trouble as though he were contriving mines to blow up an enemy.
He took her first into the shop, and then into the kitchen, thence to the dining-rooms, after
that to his and her bedrooms, and so on till he came to the full glory of the new drawing-room,
enhancing the pleasure by little jokes, and telling her that he should never dare to come into
the last paradise without her permission, and not then till he had taken off his boots. Child
as she was, she understood the joke, and carried it on like a little queen; and so they soon
became the firmest of friends.

But though Mary was a queen, it was still necessary that she should be educated. Those were
the earlier days in which Lady Arabella had humbled herself, and to show her humility she invited
Mary to share the music-lessons of Augusta and Beatrice at the great house. A music-master
from Barchester came over three times a week, and remained for three hours, and if the doctor
chose to send his girl over, she could pick up what was going on without doing any harm. So
said the Lady Arabella. The doctor with many thanks and with no hesitation, accepted the offer,
merely adding, that he had perhaps better settle separately with Signor Cantabili, the music-master.
He was very much obliged to Lady Arabella for giving his little girl permission to join her
lessons to those of the Miss Greshams.

It need hardly be said that the Lady Arabella was on fire at once. Settle with Signor Cantabili!
No, indeed; she would do that; there must be no expense whatever incurred in such an arrangement
on Miss Thorne's account! But here, as in most things, the doctor carried his point. It being
the time of the lady's humility, she could not make as good a fight as she would otherwise
have done; and thus she found, to her great disgust, that Mary Thorne was learning music in
her schoolroom on equal terms, as regarded payment, with her own daughters. The arrangement
having been made could not be broken, especially as the young lady in nowise made herself disagreeable;
and more especially as the Miss Greshams themselves were very fond of her.

And so Mary Thorne learnt music at Greshamsbury, and with her music she learnt other things
also; how to behave herself among girls of her own age; how to speak and talk as other young
ladies do; how to dress herself, and how to move and walk. All which, she, being quick to learn,
learnt without trouble at the great house. Something also she learnt of French, seeing that
the Greshamsbury French governess was always in the room.

And then, some few years later, there came a rector, and a rector's sister; and with the latter
Mary studied German, and French also. From the doctor himself she learnt much; the choice,
namely, of English books for her own reading, and habits of thought somewhat akin to his own,
though modified by the feminine softness of her individual mind.

And so Mary Thorne grew up and was educated. Of her personal appearance it certainly is my
business as an author to say something. She is my heroine, and, as such, must necessarily be
very beautiful; but, in truth, her mind and inner qualities are more clearly distinct to my
brain than her outward form and features. I know that she was far from being tall, and far
from being showy; that her feet and hands were small and delicate; that her eyes were bright
when looked at, but not brilliant so as to make their brilliancy palpably visible to all around
her; her hair was dark brown, and worn very plainly brushed from her forehead; her lips were
thin, and her mouth, perhaps, in general inexpressive, but when she was eager in conversation
it would show itself to be animated with curves of wondrous energy; and, quiet as she was in
manner, sober and demure as was her usual settled appearance, she could talk, when the fit
came on her, with an energy which in truth surprised those who did not know her; aye, and sometimes
those who did. Energy! nay, it was occasionally a concentration of passion, which left her
for the moment perfectly unconscious of all other cares but solicitude for that subject which
she might then be advocating.

All her friends, including the doctor, had at times been made unhappy by this vehemence of
character; but yet it was to that very vehemence that she owed it that all her friends so loved
her. It had once nearly banished her in early years from the Greshamsbury schoolroom; and yet
it ended in making her claim to remain there so strong, that Lady Arabella could no longer
oppose it, even when she had the wish to do so.

A new French governess had lately come to Greshamsbury, and was, or was to be, a great pet
with Lady Arabella, having all the great gifts with which a governess can be endowed, and being
also a protégée from the castle. The castle, in Greshamsbury parlance, always meant that of
Courcy. Soon after this a valued little locket belonging to Augusta Gresham was missing. The
French governess had objected to its being worn in the schoolroom, and it had been sent up
to the bedroom by a young servant-girl, the daughter of a small farmer on the estate. The locket
was missing, and after a while, a considerable noise in the matter having been made, was found,
by the diligence of the governess, somewhere among the belongings of the English servant. Great
was the anger of Lady Arabella, loud were the protestations of the girl, mute the woe of her
father, piteous the tears of her mother, inexorable the judgment of the Greshamsbury world.
But something occurred, it matters now not what, to separate Mary Thorne in opinion from that
world at large. Out she then spoke, and to her face accused the governess of the robbery. For
two days Mary was in disgrace almost as deep as that of the farmer's daughter. But she was
neither quiet nor dumb in her disgrace. When Lady Arabella would not hear her, she went to
Mr Gresham. She forced her uncle to move in the matter. She gained over to her side, one by
one, the potentates of the parish, and ended by bringing Mam'selle Larron down on her knees
with a confession of the facts. From that time Mary Thorne was dear to the tenantry of Greshamsbury;
and specially dear at one small household, where a rough-spoken father of a family was often
heard to declare, that for Miss Mary Thorne he'd face man or magistrate, duke or devil.

And so Mary Thorne grew up under the doctor's eye, and at the beginning of our tale she was
one of the guests assembled at Greshamsbury on the coming of age of the heir, she herself having
then arrived at the same period of her life.

CHAPTER IV

Lessons from Courcy Castle

It was the first of July, young Frank Gresham's birthday, and the London season was not yet
over; nevertheless, Lady de Courcy had managed to get down into the country to grace the coming
of age of the heir, bringing with her all the Ladies Amelia, Rosina, Margaretta, and Alexandrina,
together with such of the Honourable Johns and Georges as could be collected for the occasion.

The Lady Arabella had contrived this year to spend ten weeks in town, which, by a little stretching,
she made to pass for the season; and had managed, moreover, at last to refurnish, not ingloriously,
the Portman Square drawing-room. She had gone up to London under the pretext, imperatively
urged, of Augusta's teeth--young ladies' teeth are not unfrequently of value in this way;--and
having received authority for a new carpet, which was really much wanted, had made such dexterous
use of that sanction as to run up an upholsterer's bill of six or seven hundred pounds. She
had of course had her carriage and horses; the girls of course had gone out; it had been positively
necessary to have a few friends in Portman Square; and, altogether, the ten weeks had not been
unpleasant, and not inexpensive.

For a few confidential minutes before dinner, Lady de Courcy and her sister-in-law sat together
in the latter's dressing-room, discussing the unreasonableness of the squire, who had expressed
himself with more than ordinary bitterness as to the folly--he had probably used some stronger
word--of these London proceedings.

"Heavens!" said the countess, with much eager animation; "what can the man expect? What does
he wish you to do?"

"He would like to sell the house in London, and bury us all here for ever. Mind, I was there
only for ten weeks."

"Barely time for the girls to get their teeth properly looked at! But Arabella, what does he
say?" Lady de Courcy was very anxious to learn the exact truth of the matter, and ascertain,
if she could, whether Mr Gresham was really as poor as he pretended to be.

"Why, he said yesterday that he would have no more going to town at all; that he was barely
able to pay the claims made on him, and keep up the house here, and that he would not--"

"Would not what?" asked the countess.

"Why, he said that he would not utterly ruin poor Frank."

"Ruin Frank!"

"That's what he said."

"But, surely, Arabella, it is not so bad as that? What possible reason can there be for him
to be in debt?"

"He is always talking of those elections."

"But, my dear, Boxall Hill paid all that off. Of course Frank will not have such an income
as there was when you married into the family; we all know that. And whom will he have to thank
but his father? But Boxall Hill paid all those debts, and why should there be any difficulty now?"

"It was those nasty dogs, Rosina," said the Lady Arabella, almost in tears.

"Well, I for one never approved of the hounds coming to Greshamsbury. When a man has once involved
his property he should not incur any expenses that are not absolutely necessary. That is a
golden rule which Mr Gresham ought to have remembered. Indeed, I put it to him nearly in those
very words; but Mr Gresham never did, and never will receive with common civility anything
that comes from me."

"I know, Rosina, he never did; and yet where would he have been but for the de Courcys?" So
exclaimed, in her gratitude, the Lady Arabella; to speak the truth, however, but for the de
Courcys, Mr Gresham might have been at this moment on the top of Boxall Hill, monarch of all
he surveyed.

"As I was saying," continued the countess, "I never approved of the hounds coming to Greshamsbury;
but yet, my dear, the hounds can't have eaten up everything. A man with ten thousand a year
ought to be able to keep hounds; particularly as he had a subscription."

"He says the subscription was little or nothing."

"That's nonsense, my dear. Now, Arabella, what does he do with his money? That's the question.
Does he gamble?"

"Well," said Lady Arabella, very slowly, "I don't think he does." If the squire did gamble
he must have done it very slyly, for he rarely went away from Greshamsbury, and certainly very
few men looking like gamblers were in the habit of coming thither as guests. "I don't think
he does gamble." Lady Arabella put her emphasis on the word gamble, as though her husband,
if he might perhaps be charitably acquitted of that vice, was certainly guilty of every other
known in the civilised world.

"I know he used," said Lady de Courcy, looking very wise, and rather suspicious. She certainly
had sufficient domestic reasons for disliking the propensity; "I know he used; and when a man
begins, he is hardly ever cured."

"Well, if he does, I don't know it," said the Lady Arabella.

"The money, my dear, must go somewhere. What excuse does he give when you tell him you want
this and that--all the common necessaries of life, that you have always been used to?"

"He gives no excuse; sometimes he says the family is so large."

"Nonsense! Girls cost nothing; there's only Frank, and he can't have cost anything yet. Can
he be saving money to buy back Boxall Hill?"

"Oh no!" said the Lady Arabella, quickly. "He is not saving anything; he never did, and never
will save, though he is so stingy to me. He is hard pushed for money, I know that."

"Then where has it gone?" said the Countess de Courcy, with a look of stern decision.

"Heaven only knows! Now, Augusta is to be married. I must of course have a few hundred pounds.
You should have heard how he groaned when I asked him for it. Heaven only knows where the money
goes!" And the injured wife wiped a piteous tear from her eye with her fine dress cambric handkerchief.
"I have all the sufferings and privations of a poor man's wife, but I have none of the consolations.
He has no confidence in me; he never tells me anything; he never talks to me about his affairs.
If he talks to any one it is to that horrid doctor."

"What, Dr Thorne?" Now the Countess de Courcy hated Dr Thorne with a holy hatred.

"Yes; Dr Thorne. I believe that he knows everything; and advises everything, too. Whatever
difficulties poor Gresham may have, I do believe Dr Thorne has brought them about. I do believe
it, Rosina."

"Well, that is surprising. Mr Gresham, with all his faults, is a gentleman; and how he can
talk about his affairs with a low apothecary like that, I, for one, cannot imagine. Lord de
Courcy has not always been to me all that he should have been; far from it." And Lady de Courcy
thought over in her mind injuries of a much graver description than any that her sister-in-law
had ever suffered; "but I have never known anything like that at Courcy Castle. Surely Umbleby
knows all about it, doesn't he?"

"Not half so much as the doctor," said Lady Arabella.

The countess shook her head slowly; the idea of Mr Gresham, a country gentleman of good estate
like him, making a confidant of a country doctor was too great a shock for her nerves; and
for a while she was constrained to sit silent before she could recover herself.

"One thing at any rate is certain, Arabella," said the countess, as soon as she found herself
again sufficiently composed to offer counsel in a properly dictatorial manner. "One thing at
any rate is certain; if Mr Gresham be involved so deeply as you say, Frank has but one duty
before him. He must marry money. The heir of fourteen thousand a year may indulge himself in
looking for blood, as Mr Gresham did, my dear"--it must be understood that there was very little
compliment in this, as the Lady Arabella had always conceived herself to be a beauty--"or for
beauty, as some men do," continued the countess, thinking of the choice that the present Earl
de Courcy had made; "but Frank must marry money. I hope he will understand this early; do make
him understand this before he makes a fool of himself; when a man thoroughly understands this,
when he knows what his circumstances require, why, the matter becomes easy to him. I hope that
Frank understands that he has no alternative. In his position he must marry money."

But, alas! alas! Frank Gresham had already made a fool of himself.

"Well, my boy, I wish you joy with all my heart," said the Honourable John, slapping his cousin
on the back, as he walked round to the stable-yard with him before dinner, to inspect a setter
puppy of peculiarly fine breed which had been sent to Frank as a birthday present. "I wish
I were an elder son; but we can't all have that luck."

"Who wouldn't sooner be the younger son of an earl than the eldest son of a plain squire?"
said Frank, wishing to say something civil in return for his cousin's civility.

"I wouldn't for one," said the Honourable John. "What chance have I? There's Porlock as strong
as a horse; and then George comes next. And the governor's good for these twenty years." And
the young man sighed as he reflected what small hope there was that all those who were nearest
and dearest to him should die out of his way, and leave him to the sweet enjoyment of an earl's
coronet and fortune. "Now, you're sure of your game some day; and as you've no brothers, I
suppose the squire'll let you do pretty well what you like. Besides, he's not so strong as
my governor, though he's younger."

Frank had never looked at his fortune in this light before, and was so slow and green that
he was not much delighted at the prospect now that it was offered to him. He had always, however,
been taught to look to his cousins, the de Courcys, as men with whom it would be very expedient
that he should be intimate; he therefore showed no offence, but changed the conversation.

"Shall you hunt with the Barsetshire this season, John? I hope you will; I shall."

"Well, I don't know. It's very slow. It's all tillage here, or else woodland. I rather fancy
I shall go to Leicestershire when the partridge-shooting is over. What sort of a lot do you
mean to come out with, Frank?"

Frank became a little red as he answered, "Oh, I shall have two," he said; "that is, the mare
I have had these two years, and the horse my father gave me this morning."

"What! only those two? and the mare is nothing more than a pony."

"She is fifteen hands," said Frank, offended.

"Well, Frank, I certainly would not stand that," said the Honourable John. "What, go out before
the county with one untrained horse and a pony; and you the heir to Greshamsbury!"

"I'll have him so trained before November," said Frank, "that nothing in Barsetshire shall
stop him. Peter says"--Peter was the Greshamsbury stud-groom--"that he tucks up his hind legs
beautifully."

"But who the deuce would think of going to work with one horse; or two either, if you insist
on calling the old pony a huntress? I'll put you up to a trick, my lad: if you stand that you'll
stand anything; and if you don't mean to go in leading-strings all your life, now is the time
to show it. There's young Baker--Harry Baker, you know--he came of age last year, and he has
as pretty a string of nags as any one would wish to set eyes on; four hunters and a hack. Now,
if old Baker has four thousand a year it's every shilling he has got."

This was true, and Frank Gresham, who in the morning had been made so happy by his father's
present of a horse, began to feel that hardly enough had been done for him. It was true that
Mr Baker had only four thousand a year; but it was also true that he had no other child than
Harry Baker; that he had no great establishment to keep up; that he owed a shilling to no one;
and, also, that he was a great fool in encouraging a mere boy to ape all the caprices of a
man of wealth. Nevertheless, for a moment, Frank Gresham did feel that, considering his position,
he was being treated rather unworthily.

"Take the matter in your own hands, Frank," said the Honourable John, seeing the impression
that he had made. "Of course the governor knows very well that you won't put up with such a
stable as that. Lord bless you! I have heard that when he married my aunt, and that was when
he was about your age, he had the best stud in the whole county; and then he was in Parliament
before he was three-and-twenty."

"His father, you know, died when he was very young," said Frank.

"Yes; I know he had a stroke of luck that doesn't fall to everyone; but--"

Young Frank's face grew dark now instead of red. When his cousin submitted to him the necessity
of having more than two horses for his own use he could listen to him; but when the same monitor
talked of the chance of a father's death as a stroke of luck, Frank was too much disgusted
to be able to pretend to pass it over with indifference. What! was he thus to think of his
father, whose face was always lighted up with pleasure when his boy came near to him, and so
rarely bright at any other time? Frank had watched his father closely enough to be aware of
this; he knew how his father delighted in him; he had had cause to guess that his father had
many troubles, and that he strove hard to banish the memory of them when his son was with him.
He loved his father truly, purely, and thoroughly, liked to be with him, and would be proud
to be his confidant. Could he then listen quietly while his cousin spoke of the chance of his
father's death as a stroke of luck?

"I shouldn't think it a stroke of luck, John. I should think it the greatest misfortune in
the world."

It is so difficult for a young man to enumerate sententiously a principle of morality, or even
an expression of ordinary good feeling, without giving himself something of a ridiculous air,
without assuming something of a mock grandeur!

"Oh, of course, my dear fellow," said the Honourable John, laughing; "that's a matter of course.
We all understand that without saying it. Porlock, of course, would feel exactly the same about
the governor; but if the governor were to walk, I think Porlock would console himself with
the thirty thousand a year."

"I don't know what Porlock would do; he's always quarrelling with my uncle, I know. I only
spoke of myself; I never quarrelled with my father, and I hope I never shall."

"All right, my lad of wax, all right. I dare say you won't be tried; but if you are, you'll
find before six months are over, that it's a very nice thing to master of Greshamsbury."

"I'm sure I shouldn't find anything of the kind."

"Very well, so be it. You wouldn't do as young Hatherly did, at Hatherly Court, in Gloucestershire,
when his father kicked the bucket. You know Hatherly, don't you?"

"No; I never saw him."

"He's Sir Frederick now, and has, or had, one of the finest fortunes in England, for a commoner;
the most of it is gone now. Well, when he heard of his governor's death, he was in Paris, but
he went off to Hatherly as fast as special train and post-horses would carry him, and got there
just in time for the funeral. As he came back to Hatherly Court from the church, they were
putting up the hatchment over the door, and Master Fred saw that the undertakers had put at
the bottom 'Resurgam.' You know what that means?"

"Oh, yes," said Frank.

"'I'll come back again,'" said the Honourable John, construing the Latin for the benefit of
his cousin. "'No,' said Fred Hatherly, looking up at the hatchment; 'I'm blessed if you do,
old gentleman. That would be too much of a joke; I'll take care of that.' So he got up at night,
and he got some fellows with him, and they climbed up and painted out 'Resurgam,' and they
painted into its place, 'Requiescat in pace;' which means, you know, 'you'd a great deal better
stay where you are.' Now I call that good. Fred Hatherly did that as sure as--as sure as--as
sure as anything."

Frank could not help laughing at the story, especially at his cousin's mode of translating
the undertaker's mottoes; and then they sauntered back from the stables into the house to dress
for dinner.

Dr Thorne had come to the house somewhat before dinner-time, at Mr Gresham's request, and was
now sitting with the squire in his own book-room--so called--while Mary was talking to some
of the girls upstairs.

"I must have ten or twelve thousand pounds; ten at the very least," said the squire, who was
sitting in his usual arm-chair, close to his littered table, with his head supported on his
hand, looking very unlike the father of an heir of a noble property, who had that day come of age.

It was the first of July, and of course there was no fire in the grate; but, nevertheless,
the doctor was standing with his back to the fireplace, with his coat-tails over his arms,
as though he were engaged, now in summer as he so often was in winter, in talking, and roasting
his hinder person at the same time.

"Twelve thousand pounds! It's a very large sum of money."

"I said ten," said the squire.

"Ten thousand pounds is a very large sum of money. There is no doubt he'll let you have it.
Scatcherd will let you have it; but I know he'll expect to have the title deeds."

"What! for ten thousand pounds?" said the squire. "There is not a registered debt against the
property but his own and Armstrong's."

"But his own is very large already."

"Armstrong's is nothing; about four-and-twenty thousand pounds."

"Yes; but he comes first, Mr Gresham."

"Well, what of that? To hear you talk, one would think that there was nothing left of Greshamsbury.
What's four-and-twenty thousand pounds? Does Scatcherd know what rent-roll is?"

"Oh, yes, he knows it well enough: I wish he did not."

"Well, then, why does he make such a bother about a few thousand pounds? The title-deeds, indeed!"

"What he means is, that he must have ample security to cover what he has already advanced before
he goes on. I wish to goodness you had no further need to borrow. I did think that things were
settled last year."

"Oh if there's any difficulty, Umbleby will get it for me."

"Yes; and what will you have to pay for it?"

"I'd sooner pay double than be talked to in this way," said the squire, angrily, and, as he
spoke, he got up hurriedly from his chair, thrust his hands into his trousers-pockets, walked
quickly to the window, and immediately walking back again, threw himself once more into his chair.

"There are some things a man cannot bear, doctor," said he, beating the devil's tattoo on the
floor with one of his feet, "though God knows I ought to be patient now, for I am made to bear
a good many things. You had better tell Scatcherd that I am obliged to him for his offer, but
that I will not trouble him."

The doctor during this little outburst had stood quite silent with his back to the fireplace
and his coat-tails hanging over his arms; but though his voice said nothing, his face said
much. He was very unhappy; he was greatly grieved to find that the squire was so soon again
in want of money, and greatly grieved also to find that this want had made him so bitter and
unjust. Mr Gresham had attacked him; but as he was determined not to quarrel with Mr Gresham,
he refrained from answering.

The squire also remained silent for a few minutes; but he was not endowed with the gift of
silence, and was soon, as it were, compelled to speak again.

"Poor Frank!" said he. "I could yet be easy about everything if it were not for the injury
I have done him. Poor Frank!"

The doctor advanced a few paces from off the rug, and taking his hand out of his pocket, he
laid it gently on the squire's shoulder. "Frank will do very well yet," said the he. "It is
not absolutely necessary that a man should have fourteen thousand pounds a year to be happy."

"My father left me the property entire, and I should leave it entire to my son;--but you don't
understand this."

The doctor did understand the feeling fully. The fact, on the other hand, was that, long as
he had known him, the squire did not understand the doctor.

"I would you could, Mr Gresham," said the doctor, "so that your mind might be happier; but
that cannot be, and, therefore, I say again, that Frank will do very well yet, although he
will not inherit fourteen thousand pounds a year; and I would have you say the same thing to
yourself."

"Ah! you don't understand it," persisted the squire. "You don't know how a man feels when he--Ah,
well! it's no use my troubling you with what cannot be mended. I wonder whether Umbleby is
about the place anywhere?"

The doctor was again standing with his back against the chimney-piece, and with his hands in
his pockets.

"You did not see Umbleby as you came in?" again asked the squire.

"No, I did not; and if you will take my advice you will not see him now; at any rate with reference
to this money."

"I tell you I must get it from someone; you say Scatcherd won't let me have it."

"No, Mr Gresham; I did not say that."

"Well, you said what was as bad. Augusta is to be married in September, and the money must
be had. I have agreed to give Moffat six thousand pounds, and he is to have the money down
in hard cash."

"Six thousand pounds," said the doctor. "Well, I suppose that is not more than your daughter
should have. But then, five times six are thirty; thirty thousand pounds will be a large sum
to make up."

The father thought to himself that his younger girls were but children, and that the trouble
of arranging their marriage portions might well be postponed a while. Sufficient for the day
is the evil thereof.

"That Moffat is a griping, hungry fellow," said the squire. "I suppose Augusta likes him; and,
as regards money, it is a good match."

"If Miss Gresham loves him, that is everything. I am not in love with him myself; but then,
I am not a young lady."

"The de Courcys are very fond of him. Lady de Courcy says that he is a perfect gentleman, and
thought very much of in London."

"Oh! if Lady de Courcy says that, of course, it's all right," said the doctor, with a quiet
sarcasm, that was altogether thrown away on the squire.

The squire did not like any of the de Courcys; especially, he did not like Lady de Courcy;
but still he was accessible to a certain amount of gratification in the near connexion which
he had with the earl and countess; and when he wanted to support his family greatness, would
sometimes weakly fall back upon the grandeur of Courcy Castle. It was only when talking to
his wife that he invariably snubbed the pretensions of his noble relatives.

The two men after this remained silent for a while; and then the doctor, renewing the subject
for which he had been summoned into the book-room, remarked, that as Scatcherd was now in the
country--he did not say, was now at Boxall Hill, as he did not wish to wound the squire's ears--perhaps
he had better go and see him, and ascertain in what way this affair of the money might be arranged.
There was no doubt, he said, that Scatcherd would supply the sum required at a lower rate of
interest than that at which it could be procured through Umbleby's means.

"Very well," said the squire. "I'll leave it in your hands, then. I think ten thousand pounds
will do. And now I'll dress for dinner." And then the doctor left him.

Perhaps the reader will suppose after this that the doctor had some pecuniary interest of his
own in arranging the squire's loans; or, at any rate, he will think that the squire must have
so thought. Not in the least; neither had he any such interest, nor did the squire think that
he had any. What Dr Thorne did in this matter the squire well knew was done for love. But the
squire of Greshamsbury was a great man at Greshamsbury; and it behoved him to maintain the
greatness of his squirehood when discussing his affairs with the village doctor. So much he
had at any rate learnt from his contact with the de Courcys.

And the doctor--proud, arrogant, contradictory, headstrong as he was--why did he bear to be
thus snubbed? Because he knew that the squire of Greshamsbury, when struggling with debt and
poverty, required an indulgence for his weakness. Had Mr Gresham been in easy circumstances,
the doctor would by no means have stood so placidly with his hands in his pockets, and have
had Mr Umbleby thus thrown in his teeth. The doctor loved the squire, loved him as his own
oldest friend; but he loved him ten times better as being in adversity than he could ever have
done had things gone well at Greshamsbury in his time.

While this was going on downstairs, Mary was sitting upstairs with Beatrice Gresham in the
schoolroom. The old schoolroom, so called, was now a sitting-room, devoted to the use of the
grown-up young ladies of the family, whereas one of the old nurseries was now the modern schoolroom.
Mary well knew her way to the sanctum, and, without asking any questions, walked up to it when
her uncle went to the squire. On entering the room she found that Augusta and the Lady Alexandrina
were also there, and she hesitated for a moment at the door.

"Come in, Mary," said Beatrice, "you know my cousin Alexandrina." Mary came in, and having
shaken hands with her two friends, was bowing to the lady, when the lady condescended, put
out her noble hand, and touched Miss Thorne's fingers.

Beatrice was Mary's friend, and many heart-burnings and much mental solicitude did that young
lady give to her mother by indulging in such a friendship. But Beatrice, with some faults,
was true at heart, and she persisted in loving Mary Thorne in spite of the hints which her
mother so frequently gave as to the impropriety of such an affection.

Nor had Augusta any objection to the society of Miss Thorne. Augusta was a strong-minded girl,
with much of the de Courcy arrogance, but quite as well inclined to show it in opposition to
her mother as in any other form. To her alone in the house did Lady Arabella show much deference.
She was now going to make a suitable match with a man of large fortune, who had been procured
for her as an eligible parti by her aunt, the countess. She did not pretend, had never pretended,
that she loved Mr Moffat, but she knew, she said, that in the present state of her father's
affairs such a match was expedient. Mr Moffat was a young man of very large fortune, in Parliament,
inclined to business, and in every way recommendable. He was not a man of birth, to be sure;
that was to be lamented;--in confessing that Mr Moffat was not a man of birth, Augusta did
not go so far as to admit that he was the son of a tailor; such, however, was the rigid truth
in this matter--he was not a man of birth, that was to be lamented; but in the present state
of affairs at Greshamsbury, she understood well that it was her duty to postpone her own feelings
in some respect. Mr Moffat would bring fortune; she would bring blood and connexion. And as
she so said, her bosom glowed with strong pride to think that she would be able to contribute
so much more towards the proposed future partnership than her husband would do.

'Twas thus that Miss Gresham spoke of her match to her dear friends, her cousins the de Courcys
for instance, to Miss Oriel, her sister Beatrice, and even to Mary Thorne. She had no enthusiasm,
she admitted, but she thought she had good judgment. She thought she had shown good judgment
in accepting Mr Moffat's offer, though she did not pretend to any romance of affection. And,
having so said, she went to work with considerable mental satisfaction, choosing furniture,
carriages, and clothes, not extravagantly as her mother would have done, not in deference to
sterner dictates of the latest fashion as her aunt would have done, with none of the girlish
glee in new purchases which Beatrice would have felt, but with sound judgment. She bought things
that were rich, for her husband was to be rich, and she meant to avail herself of his wealth;
she bought things that were fashionable, for she meant to live in the fashionable world; but
she bought what was good, and strong, and lasting, and worth its money.

Augusta Gresham had perceived early in life that she could not obtain success either as an
heiress, or as a beauty, nor could she shine as a wit; she therefore fell back on such qualities
as she had, and determined to win the world as a strong-minded, useful woman. That which she
had of her own was blood; having that, she would in all ways do what in her lay to enhance
its value. Had she not possessed it, it would to her mind have been the vainest of pretences.

When Mary came in, the wedding preparations were being discussed. The number and names of the
bridesmaids were being settled, the dresses were on the tapis, the invitations to be given
were talked over. Sensible as Augusta was, she was not above such feminine cares; she was,
indeed, rather anxious that the wedding should go off well. She was a little ashamed of her
tailor's son, and therefore anxious that things should be as brilliant as possible.

The bridesmaid's names had just been written on a card as Mary entered the room. There were
the Ladies Amelia, Rosina, Margaretta, and Alexandrina of course at the head of it; then came
Beatrice and the twins; then Miss Oriel, who, though only a parson's sister, was a person of
note, birth, and fortune. After this there had been here a great discussion whether or not
there should be any more. If there were to be one more there must be two. Now Miss Moffat had
expressed a direct wish, and Augusta, though she would much rather have done without her, hardly
knew how to refuse. Alexandrina--we hope we may be allowed to drop the "lady" for the sake
of brevity, for the present scene only--was dead against such an unreasonable request. "We
none of us know her, you know; and it would not be comfortable." Beatrice strongly advocated
the future sister-in-law's acceptance into the bevy; she had her own reasons; she was pained
that Mary Thorne should not be among the number, and if Miss Moffat were accepted, perhaps
Mary might be brought in as her colleague.

"If you have Miss Moffat," said Alexandrina, "you must have dear Pussy too; and I really think
that Pussy is too young; it will be troublesome." Pussy was the youngest Miss Gresham, who
was now only eight years old, and whose real name was Nina.

"Augusta," said Beatrice, speaking with some slight hesitation, some soupçon of doubt, before
the high authority of her noble cousin, "if you do have Miss Moffat would you mind asking Mary
Thorne to join her? I think Mary would like it, because, you see, Patience Oriel is to be one;
and we have known Mary much longer than we have known Patience."

Then out and spake the Lady Alexandrina.

"Beatrice, dear, if you think of what you are asking, I am sure you will see that it would
not do; would not do at all. Miss Thorne is a very nice girl, I am sure; and, indeed, what
little I have seen of her I highly approve. But, after all, who is she? Mamma, I know, thinks
that Aunt Arabella has been wrong to let her be here so much, but--"

Beatrice became rather red in the face, and, in spite of the dignity of her cousin, was preparing
to defend her friend.

"Mind, I am not saying a word against Miss Thorne."

"If I am married before her, she shall be one of my bridesmaids," said Beatrice.

"That will probably depend on circumstances," said the Lady Alexandrina; I find that I cannot
bring my courteous pen to drop the title. "But Augusta is very peculiarly situated. Mr Moffat
is, you see, not of the very highest birth; and, therefore, she should take care that on her
side every one about her is well born."

"Then you cannot have Miss Moffat," said Beatrice.

"No; I would not if I could help it," said the cousin.

"But the Thornes are as good a family as the Greshams," said Beatrice. She had not quite the
courage to say, as good as the de Courcys.

"I dare say they are; and if this was Miss Thorne of Ullathorne, Augusta probably would not
object to her. But can you tell me who Miss Mary Thorne is?"

"She is Dr Thorne's niece."

"You mean that she is called so; but do you know who her father was, or who her mother was?
I, for one, must own I do not. Mamma, I believe, does, but--"

At this moment the door opened gently and Mary Thorne entered the room.

It may easily be conceived, that while Mary was making her salutations the three other young
ladies were a little cast aback. The Lady Alexandrina, however, quickly recovered herself,
and, by her inimitable presence of mind and facile grace of manner, soon put the matter on
a proper footing.

"We were discussing Miss Gresham's marriage," said she; "I am sure I may mention to an acquaintance
of so long standing as Miss Thorne, that the first of September has been now fixed for the
wedding."

Miss Gresham! Acquaintance of so long standing! Why, Mary and Augusta Gresham had for years,
we will hardly say now for how many, passed their mornings together in the same schoolroom;
had quarrelled, and squabbled, and caressed and kissed, and been all but as sisters to each
other. Acquaintance indeed! Beatrice felt that her ears were tingling, and even Augusta was
a little ashamed. Mary, however, knew that the cold words had come from a de Courcy, and not
from a Gresham, and did not, therefore, resent them.

"So it's settled, Augusta, is it?" said she; "the first of September. I wish you joy with all
my heart," and, coming round, she put her arm over Augusta's shoulder and kissed her. The Lady
Alexandrina could not but think that the doctor's niece uttered her congratulations very much
as though she were speaking to an equal; very much as though she had a father and mother of
her own.

"You will have delicious weather," continued Mary. "September, and the beginning of October,
is the nicest time of the year. If I were going honeymooning it is just the time of year I
would choose."

"I wish you were, Mary," said Beatrice.

"So do not I, dear, till I have found some decent sort of a body to honeymoon along with me.
I won't stir out of Greshamsbury till I have sent you off before me, at any rate. And where
will you go, Augusta?"

"We have not settled that," said Augusta. "Mr Moffat talks of Paris."

"Who ever heard of going to Paris in September?" said the Lady Alexandrina.

"Or who ever heard of the gentleman having anything to say on the matter?" said the doctor's
niece. "Of course Mr Moffat will go wherever you are pleased to take him."

The Lady Alexandrina was not pleased to find how completely the doctor's niece took upon herself
to talk, and sit, and act at Greshamsbury as though she was on a par with the young ladies
of the family. That Beatrice should have allowed this would not have surprised her; but it
was to be expected that Augusta would have shown better judgment.

"These things require some tact in their management; some delicacy when high interests are
at stake," said she; "I agree with Miss Thorne in thinking that, in ordinary circumstances,
with ordinary people, perhaps, the lady should have her way. Rank, however, has its drawbacks,
Miss Thorne, as well as its privileges."

"I should not object to the drawbacks," said the doctor's niece, "presuming them to be of some
use; but I fear I might fail in getting on so well with the privileges."

The Lady Alexandrina looked at her as though not fully aware whether she intended to be pert.
In truth, the Lady Alexandrina was rather in the dark on the subject. It was almost impossible,
it was incredible, that a fatherless, motherless, doctor's niece should be pert to an earl's
daughter at Greshamsbury, seeing that that earl's daughter was the cousin of the Miss Greshams.
And yet the Lady Alexandrina hardly knew what other construction to put on the words she had
just heard.

It was at any rate clear to her that it was not becoming that she should just then stay any
longer in that room. Whether she intended to be pert or not, Miss Mary Thorne was, to say the
least, very free. The de Courcy ladies knew what was due to them--no ladies better; and, therefore,
the Lady Alexandrina made up her mind at once to go to her own bedroom.

"Augusta," she said, rising slowly from her chair with much stately composure, "it is nearly
time to dress; will you come with me? We have a great deal to settle, you know."

So she swam out of the room, and Augusta, telling Mary that she would see her again at dinner,
swam--no, tried to swim--after her. Miss Gresham had had great advantages; but she had not
been absolutely brought up at Courcy Castle, and could not as yet quite assume the Courcy style
of swimming.

"There," said Mary, as the door closed behind the rustling muslins of the ladies. "There, I
have made an enemy for ever, perhaps two; that's satisfactory."

"And why have you done it, Mary? When I am fighting your battles behind your back, why do you
come and upset it all by making the whole family of the de Courcys dislike you? In such a matter
as that, they'll all go together."

"I am sure they will," said Mary; "whether they would be equally unanimous in a case of love
and charity, that, indeed, is another question."

"But why should you try to make my cousin angry; you that ought to have so much sense? Don't
you remember what you were saying yourself the other day, of the absurdity of combatting pretences
which the world sanctions?"

"I do, Trichy, I do; don't scold me now. It is so much easier to preach than to practise. I
do so wish I was a clergyman."

"But you have done so much harm, Mary."

"Have I?" said Mary, kneeling down on the ground at her friend's feet. "If I humble myself
very low; if I kneel through the whole evening in a corner; if I put my neck down and let all
your cousins trample on it, and then your aunt, would not that make atonement? I would not
object to wearing sackcloth, either; and I'd eat a little ashes--or, at any rate, I'd try."

"I know you're clever, Mary; but still I think you're a fool. I do, indeed."

"I am a fool, Trichy, I do confess it; and am not a bit clever; but don't scold me; you see
how humble I am; not only humble but umble, which I look upon to be the comparative, or, indeed,
superlative degree. Or perhaps there are four degrees; humble, umble, stumble, tumble; and
then, when one is absolutely in the dirt at their feet, perhaps these big people won't wish
one to stoop any further."

"Oh, Mary!"

"And, oh, Trichy! you don't mean to say I mayn't speak out before you. There, perhaps you'd
like to put your foot on my neck." And then she put her head down to the footstool and kissed
Beatrice's feet.

"I'd like, if I dared, to put my hand on your cheek and give you a good slap for being such
a goose."

"Do; do, Trichy: you shall tread on me, or slap me, or kiss me; whichever you like."

"I can't tell you how vexed I am," said Beatrice; "I wanted to arrange something."

"Arrange something! What? arrange what? I love arranging. I fancy myself qualified to be an
arranger-general in female matters. I mean pots and pans, and such like. Of course I don't
allude to extraordinary people and extraordinary circumstances that require tact, and delicacy,
and drawbacks, and that sort of thing."

"Very well, Mary."

"But it's not very well; it's very bad if you look like that. Well, my pet, there I won't.
I won't allude to the noble blood of your noble relatives either in joke or in earnest. What
is it you want to arrange, Trichy?"

"I want you to be one of Augusta's bridesmaids."

"Good heavens, Beatrice! Are you mad? What! Put me, even for a morning, into the same category
of finery as the noble blood from Courcy Castle!"

"Patience is to be one."

"But that is no reason why Impatience should be another, and I should be very impatient under
such honours. No, Trichy; joking apart, do not think of it. Even if Augusta wished it I should
refuse. I should be obliged to refuse. I, too, suffer from pride; a pride quite as unpardonable
as that of others: I could not stand with your four lady-cousins behind your sister at the
altar. In such a galaxy they would be the stars and I--"

"Why, Mary, all the world knows that you are prettier than any of them!"

"I am all the world's very humble servant. But, Trichy, I should not object if I were as ugly
as the veiled prophet and they all as beautiful as Zuleika. The glory of that galaxy will be
held to depend not on its beauty, but on its birth. You know how they would look at me; how
they would scorn me; and there, in church, at the altar, with all that is solemn round us,
I could not return their scorn as I might do elsewhere. In a room I'm not a bit afraid of them
all." And Mary was again allowing herself to be absorbed by that feeling of indomitable pride,
of antagonism to the pride of others, which she herself in her cooler moments was the first
to blame.

"You often say, Mary, that that sort of arrogance should be despised and passed over without
notice."

"So it should, Trichy. I tell you that as a clergyman tells you to hate riches. But though
the clergyman tells you so, he is not the less anxious to be rich himself."

"I particularly wish you to be one of Augusta's bridesmaids."

"And I particularly wish to decline the honour; which honour has not been, and will not be,
offered to me. No, Trichy. I will not be Augusta's bridesmaid, but--but--but--"

"But what, dearest?"

"But, Trichy, when some one else is married, when the new wing has been built to a house that
you know of--"

"Now, Mary, hold your tongue, or you know you'll make me angry."

"I do so like to see you angry. And when that time comes, when that wedding does take place,
then I will be a bridesmaid, Trichy. Yes! even though I am not invited. Yes! though all the
de Courcys in Barsetshire should tread upon me and obliterate me. Though I should be as dust
among the stars, though I should creep up in calico among their satins and lace, I will nevertheless
be there; close, close to the bride; to hold something for her, to touch her dress, to feel
that I am near to her, to--to--to--" and she threw her arms round her companion, and kissed
her over and over again. "No, Trichy; I won't be Augusta's bridesmaid; I'll bide my time for
bridesmaiding."

What protestations Beatrice made against the probability of such an event as foreshadowed in
her friend's promise we will not repeat. The afternoon was advancing, and the ladies also had
to dress for dinner, to do honour to the young heir.

CHAPTER V

Frank Gresham's First Speech

We have said, that over and above those assembled in the house, there came to the Greshamsbury
dinner on Frank's birthday the Jacksons of the Grange, consisting of Mr and Mrs Jackson; the
Batesons from Annesgrove, viz., Mr and Mrs Bateson, and Miss Bateson, their daughter--an unmarried
lady of about fifty; the Bakers of Mill Hill, father and son; and Mr Caleb Oriel, the rector,
with his beautiful sister, Patience. Dr Thorne, and his niece Mary, we count among those already
assembled at Greshamsbury.

There was nothing very magnificent in the number of the guests thus brought together to do
honour to young Frank; but he, perhaps, was called on to take a more prominent part in the
proceedings, to be made more of a hero than would have been the case had half the county been
there. In that case the importance of the guests would have been so great that Frank would
have got off with a half-muttered speech or two; but now he had to make a separate oration
to every one, and very weary work he found it.

The Batesons, Bakers, and Jacksons were very civil; no doubt the more so from an unconscious
feeling on their part, that as the squire was known to be a little out at elbows as regards
money, any deficiency on their part might be considered as owing to the present state of affairs
at Greshamsbury. Fourteen thousand a year will receive honour; in that case there is no doubt,
and the man absolutely possessing it is not apt to be suspicious as to the treatment he may
receive; but the ghost of fourteen thousand a year is not always so self-assured. Mr Baker,
with his moderate income, was a very much richer man than the squire; and, therefore, he was
peculiarly forward in congratulating Frank on the brilliancy of his prospects.

Poor Frank had hardly anticipated what there would be to do, and before dinner was announced
he was very tired of it. He had no warmer feeling for any of the grand cousins than a very
ordinary cousinly love; and he had resolved, forgetful of birth and blood, and all those gigantic
considerations which, now that manhood had come upon him, he was bound always to bear in mind,--he
had resolved to sneak out to dinner comfortably with Mary Thorne if possible; and if not with
Mary, then with his other love, Patience Oriel.

Great, therefore, was his consternation at finding that, after being kept continually in the
foreground for half an hour before dinner, he had to walk out to the dining-room with his aunt
the countess, and take his father's place for the day at the bottom of the table.

"It will now depend altogether upon yourself, Frank, whether you maintain or lose that high
position in the county which has been held by the Greshams for so many years," said the countess,
as she walked through the spacious hall, resolving to lose no time in teaching to her nephew
that great lesson which it was so imperative that he should learn.

Frank took this as an ordinary lecture, meant to inculcate general good conduct, such as old
bores of aunts are apt to inflict on youthful victims in the shape of nephews and nieces.

"Yes," said Frank; "I suppose so; and I mean to go along all square, aunt, and no mistake.
When I get back to Cambridge, I'll read like bricks."

His aunt did not care two straws about his reading. It was not by reading that the Greshams
of Greshamsbury had held their heads up in the county, but by having high blood and plenty
of money. The blood had come naturally to this young man; but it behoved him to look for the
money in a great measure himself. She, Lady de Courcy, could doubtless help him; she might
probably be able to fit him with a wife who would bring her money onto his birth. His reading
was a matter in which she could in no way assist him; whether his taste might lead him to prefer
books or pictures, or dogs and horses, or turnips in drills, or old Italian plates and dishes,
was a matter which did not much signify; with which it was not at all necessary that his noble
aunt should trouble herself.

"Oh! you are going to Cambridge again, are you? Well, if your father wishes it;--though very
little is ever gained now by a university connexion."

"I am to take my degree in October, aunt; and I am determined, at any rate, that I won't be
plucked."

"Plucked!"

"No; I won't be plucked. Baker was plucked last year, and all because he got into the wrong
set at John's. He's an excellent fellow if you knew him. He got among a set of men who did
nothing but smoke and drink beer. Malthusians, we call them."

"Malthusians!"

"'Malt,' you know, aunt, and 'use;' meaning that they drink beer. So poor Harry Baker got plucked.
I don't know that a fellow's any the worse; however, I won't get plucked."

By this time the party had taken their place round the long board, Mr Gresham sitting at the
top, in the place usually occupied by Lady Arabella. She, on the present occasion, sat next
to her son on the one side, as the countess did on the other. If, therefore, Frank now went
astray, it would not be from want of proper leading.

"Aunt, will you have some beef?" said he, as soon as the soup and fish had been disposed of,
anxious to perform the rites of hospitality now for the first time committed to his charge.

"Do not be in a hurry, Frank," said his mother; "the servants will--"

"Oh! ah! I forgot; there are cutlets and those sort of things. My hand is not in yet for this
work, aunt. Well, as I was saying about Cambridge--"

"Is Frank to go back to Cambridge, Arabella?" said the countess to her sister-in-law, speaking
across her nephew.

"So his father seems to say."

"Is it not a waste of time?" asked the countess.

"You know I never interfere," said the Lady Arabella; "I never liked the idea of Cambridge
myself at all. All the de Courcys were Christ Church men; but the Greshams, it seems, were
always at Cambridge."

"Would it not be better to send him abroad at once?"

"Much better, I would think," said the Lady Arabella; "but you know, I never interfere: perhaps
you would speak to Mr Gresham."

The countess smiled grimly, and shook her head with a decidedly negative shake. Had she said
out loud to the young man, "Your father is such an obstinate, pig-headed, ignorant fool, that
it is no use speaking to him; it would be wasting fragrance on the desert air," she could not
have spoken more plainly. The effect on Frank was this: that he said to himself, speaking quite
as plainly as Lady de Courcy had spoken by her shake of the face, "My mother and aunt are always
down on the governor, always; but the more they are down on him the more I'll stick to him.
I certainly will take my degree: I will read like bricks; and I'll begin to-morrow."

"Now will you take some beef, aunt?" This was said out loud.

The Countess de Courcy was very anxious to go on with her lesson without loss of time; but
she could not, while surrounded by guests and servants, enunciate the great secret: "You must
marry money, Frank; that is your one great duty; that is the matter to be borne steadfastly
in your mind." She could not now, with sufficient weight and impress of emphasis, pour this
wisdom into his ears; the more especially as he was standing up to his work of carving, and
was deep to his elbows in horse-radish, fat, and gravy. So the countess sat silent while the
banquet proceeded.

"Beef, Harry?" shouted the young heir to his friend Baker. "Oh! but I see it isn't your turn
yet. I beg your pardon, Miss Bateson," and he sent to that lady a pound and a half of excellent
meat, cut out with great energy in one slice, about half an inch thick.

And so the banquet went on.

Before dinner Frank had found himself obliged to make numerous small speeches in answer to
the numerous individual congratulations of his friends; but these were as nothing to the one
great accumulated onus of an oration which he had long known that he should have to sustain
after the cloth was taken away. Someone of course would propose his health, and then there
would be a clatter of voices, ladies and gentlemen, men and girls; and when that was done he
would find himself standing on his legs, with the room about him, going round and round and round.

Having had a previous hint of this, he had sought advice from his cousin, the Honourable George,
whom he regarded as a dab at speaking; at least, so he had heard the Honourable George say
of himself.

"What the deuce is a fellow to say, George, when he stands up after the clatter is done?"

"Oh, it's the easiest thing in life," said the cousin. "Only remember this: you mustn't get
astray; that is what they call presence of mind, you know. I'll tell you what I do, and I'm
often called up, you know; at our agriculturals I always propose the farmers' daughters: well,
what I do is this--I keep my eye steadfastly fixed on one of the bottles, and never move it."

"On one of the bottles!" said Frank; "wouldn't it be better if I made a mark of some old covey's
head? I don't like looking at the table."

"The old covey'd move, and then you'd be done; besides there isn't the least use in the world
in looking up. I've heard people say, who go to those sort of dinners every day of their lives,
that whenever anything witty is said; the fellow who says it is sure to be looking at the mahogany."

"Oh, you know I shan't say anything witty; I'll be quite the other way."

"But there's no reason you shouldn't learn the manner. That's the way I succeeded. Fix your
eye on one of the bottles; put your thumbs in your waist-coat pockets; stick out your elbows,
bend your knees a little, and then go ahead."

"Oh, ah! go ahead; that's all very well; but you can't go ahead if you haven't got any steam."

"A very little does it. There can be nothing so easy as your speech. When one has to say something
new every year about the farmers' daughters, why one has to use one's brains a bit. Let's see:
how will you begin? Of course, you'll say that you are not accustomed to this sort of thing;
that the honour conferred upon you is too much for your feelings; that the bright array of
beauty and talent around you quite overpowers your tongue, and all that sort of thing. Then
declare you're a Gresham to the backbone."

"Oh, they know that."

"Well, tell them again. Then of course you must say something about us; or you'll have the
countess as black as old Nick."

"Abut my aunt, George? What on earth can I say about her when she's there herself before me?"

"Before you! of course; that's just the reason. Oh, say any lie you can think of; you must
say something about us. You know we've come down from London on purpose."

Frank, in spite of the benefit he was receiving from his cousin's erudition, could not help
wishing in his heart that they had all remained in London; but this he kept to himself. He
thanked his cousin for his hints, and though he did not feel that the trouble of his mind was
completely cured, he began to hope that he might go through the ordeal without disgracing himself.

Nevertheless, he felt rather sick at heart when Mr Baker got up to propose the toast as soon
as the servants were gone. The servants, that is, were gone officially; but they were there
in a body, men and women, nurses, cooks, and ladies' maids, coachmen, grooms, and footmen,
standing in two doorways to hear what Master Frank would say. The old housekeeper headed the
maids at one door, standing boldly inside the room; and the butler controlled the men at the
other, marshalling them back with a drawn corkscrew.

Mr Baker did not say much; but what he did say, he said well. They had all seen Frank Gresham
grow up from a child; and were now required to welcome as a man amongst them one who was well
qualified to carry on the honour of that loved and respected family. His young friend, Frank,
was every inch a Gresham. Mr Baker omitted to make mention of the infusion of de Courcy blood,
and the countess, therefore, drew herself up on her chair and looked as though she were extremely
bored. He then alluded tenderly to his own long friendship with the present squire, Francis
Newbold Gresham the elder; and sat down, begging them to drink health, prosperity, long life,
and an excellent wife to their dear young friend, Francis Newbold Gresham the younger.

There was a great jingling of glasses, of course; made the merrier and the louder by the fact
that the ladies were still there as well as the gentlemen. Ladies don't drink toasts frequently;
and, therefore, the occasion coming rarely was the more enjoyed. "God bless you, Frank!" "Your
good health, Frank!" "And especially a good wife, Frank!" "Two or three of them, Frank!" "Good
health and prosperity to you, Mr Gresham!" "More power to you, Frank, my boy!" "May God bless
you and preserve you, my dear boy!" and then a merry, sweet, eager voice from the far end of
the table, "Frank! Frank! Do look at me, pray do Frank; I am drinking your health in real wine;
ain't I, papa?" Such were the addresses which greeted Mr Francis Newbold Gresham the younger
as he essayed to rise up on his feet for the first time since he had come to man's estate.

When the clatter was at an end, and he was fairly on his legs, he cast a glance before him
on the table, to look for a decanter. He had not much liked his cousin's theory of sticking
to the bottle; nevertheless, in the difficulty of the moment, it was well to have any system
to go by. But, as misfortune would have it, though the table was covered with bottles, his
eye could not catch one. Indeed, his eye first could catch nothing, for the things swam before
him, and the guests all seemed to dance in their chairs.

Up he got, however, and commenced his speech. As he could not follow his preceptor's advice
as touching the bottle, he adopted his own crude plan of "making a mark on some old covey's
head," and therefore looked dead at the doctor.

"Upon my word, I am very much obliged to you, gentlemen and ladies, ladies and gentlemen, I
should say, for drinking my health, and doing me so much honour, and all that sort of thing.
Upon my word I am. Especially to Mr Baker. I don't mean you, Harry, you're not Mr Baker."

"As much as you're Mr Gresham, Master Frank."

"But I am not Mr Gresham; and I don't mean to be for many a long year if I can help it; not
at any rate till we have had another coming of age here."

"Bravo, Frank; and whose will that be?"

"That will be my son, and a very fine lad he will be; and I hope he'll make a better speech
than his father. Mr Baker said I was every inch a Gresham. Well, I hope I am." Here the countess
began to look cold and angry. "I hope the day will never come when my father won't own me for one."

"There's no fear, no fear," said the doctor, who was almost put out of countenance by the orator's
intense gaze. The countess looked colder and more angry, and muttered something to herself
about a bear-garden.

"Gardez Gresham; eh? Harry! mind that when you're sticking in a gap and I'm coming after you.
Well, I am sure I am very obliged to you for the honour you have all done me, especially the
ladies, who don't do this sort of thing on ordinary occasions. I wish they did; don't you,
doctor? And talking of the ladies, my aunt and cousins have come all the way from London to
hear me make this speech, which certainly is not worth the trouble; but, all the same I am
very much obliged to them." And he looked round and made a little bow at the countess. "And
so I am to Mr and Mrs Jackson, and Mr and Mrs and Miss Bateson, and Mr Baker--I'm not at all
obliged to you, Harry--and to Mr Oriel and Miss Oriel, and to Mr Umbleby, and to Dr Thorne,
and to Mary--I beg her pardon, I mean Miss Thorne." And then he sat down, amid the loud plaudits
of the company, and a string of blessings which came from the servants behind him.

After this the ladies rose and departed. As she went, Lady Arabella, kissed her son's forehead,
and then his sisters kissed him, and one or two of his lady-cousins; and then Miss Bateson
shook him by the hand. "Oh, Miss Bateson," said he, "I thought the kissing was to go all round."
So Miss Bateson laughed and went her way; and Patience Oriel nodded at him, but Mary Thorne,
as she quietly left the room, almost hidden among the extensive draperies of the grander ladies,
hardly allowed her eyes to meet his.

He got up to hold the door for them as they passed; and as they went, he managed to take Patience
by the hand; he took her hand and pressed it for a moment, but dropped it quickly, in order
that he might go through the same ceremony with Mary, but Mary was too quick for him.

"Frank," said Mr Gresham, as soon as the door was closed, "bring your glass here, my boy;"
and the father made room for his son close beside himself. "The ceremony is now over, so you
may have your place of dignity." Frank sat himself down where he was told, and Mr Gresham put
his hand on his son's shoulder and half caressed him, while the tears stood in his eyes. "I
think the doctor is right, Baker, I think he'll never make us ashamed of him."

"I am sure he never will," said Mr Baker.

"I don't think he ever will," said Dr Thorne.

The tones of the men's voices were very different. Mr Baker did not care a straw about it;
why should he? He had an heir of his own as well as the squire; one also who was the apple
of his eye. But the doctor,--he did care; he had a niece, to be sure, whom he loved, perhaps
as well as these men loved their sons; but there was room in his heart also for young Frank
Gresham.

After this small exposé of feeling they sat silent for a moment or two. But silence was not
dear to the heart of the Honourable John, and so he took up the running.

"That's a niceish nag you gave Frank this morning," he said to his uncle. "I was looking at
him before dinner. He is a Monsoon, isn't he?"

"Well I can't say I know how he was bred," said the squire. "He shows a good deal of breeding."

"He's a Monsoon, I'm sure," said the Honourable John. "They've all those ears, and that peculiar
dip in the back. I suppose you gave a goodish figure for him?"

"Not so very much," said the squire.

"He's a trained hunter, I suppose?"

"If not, he soon will be," said the squire.

"Let Frank alone for that," said Harry Baker.

"He jumps beautifully, sir," said Frank. "I haven't tried him myself, but Peter made him go
over the bar two or three times this morning."

The Honourable John was determined to give his cousin a helping hand, as he considered it.
He thought that Frank was very ill-used in being put off with so incomplete a stud, and thinking
also that the son had not spirit enough to attack his father himself on the subject, the Honourable
John determined to do it for him.

"He's the making of a very nice horse, I don't doubt. I wish you had a string like him, Frank."

Frank felt the blood rush to his face. He would not for worlds have his father think that he
was discontented, or otherwise than pleased with the present he had received that morning.
He was heartily ashamed of himself in that he had listened with a certain degree of complacency
to his cousin's tempting; but he had no idea that the subject would be repeated--and then repeated,
too, before his father, in a manner to vex him on such a day as this, before such people as
were assembled there. He was very angry with his cousin, and for a moment forgot all his hereditary
respect for a de Courcy.

"I tell you what, John," said he, "do you choose your day, some day early in the season, and
come out on the best thing you have, and I'll bring, not the black horse, but my old mare;
and then do you try and keep near me. If I don't leave you at the back of Godspeed before long,
I'll give you the mare and the horse too."

The Honourable John was not known in Barsetshire as one of the most forward of its riders.
He was a man much addicted to hunting, as far as the get-up of the thing was concerned; he
was great in boots and breeches; wondrously conversant with bits and bridles; he had quite
a collection of saddles; and patronised every newest invention for carrying spare shoes, sandwiches,
and flasks of sherry. He was prominent at the cover side;--some people, including the master
of hounds, thought him perhaps a little too loudly prominent; he affected a familiarity with
the dogs, and was on speaking acquaintance with every man's horse. But when the work was cut
out, when the pace began to be sharp, when it behoved a man either to ride or visibly to decline
to ride, then--so at least said they who had not the de Courcy interest quite closely at heart--then,
in those heart-stirring moments, the Honourable John was too often found deficient.

There was, therefore, a considerable laugh at his expense when Frank, instigated to his innocent
boast by a desire to save his father, challenged his cousin to a trial of prowess. The Honourable
John was not, perhaps, as much accustomed to the ready use of his tongue as was his honourable
brother, seeing that it was not his annual business to depict the glories of the farmers' daughters;
at any rate, on this occasion he seemed to be at some loss for words; he shut up, as the slang
phrase goes, and made no further allusion to the necessity of supplying young Gresham with
a proper string of hunters.

But the old squire had understood it all; had understood the meaning of his nephew's attack;
had thoroughly understood also the meaning of his son's defence, and the feeling which actuated
it. He also had thought of the stableful of horses which had belonged to himself when he came
of age; and of the much more humble position which his son would have to fill than that which
his father had prepared for him. He thought of this, and was sad enough, though he had sufficient
spirit to hide from his friends around him the fact, that the Honourable John's arrow had not
been discharged in vain.

"He shall have Champion," said the father to himself. "It is time for me to give it up."

Now Champion was one of the two fine old hunters which the squire kept for his own use. And
it might have been said of him now, at the period of which we are speaking, that the only really
happy moments of his life were those which he spent in the field. So much as to its being time
for him to give up.

CHAPTER VI

Frank Gresham's Early Loves

It was, we have said, the first of July, and such being the time of the year, the ladies, after
sitting in the drawing-room for half an hour or so, began to think that they might as well
go through the drawing-room windows on to the lawn. First one slipped out a little way, and
then another; and then they got on to the lawn; and then they talked of their hats; till, by
degrees, the younger ones of the party, and at last of the elder also, found themselves dressed
for walking.

The windows, both of the drawing-room and the dining-room, looked out on to the lawn; and it
was only natural that the girls should walk from the former to the latter. It was only natural
that they, being there, should tempt their swains to come to them by the sight of their broad-brimmed
hats and evening dresses; and natural, also, that the temptation should not be resisted. The
squire, therefore, and the elder male guests soon found themselves alone round their wine.

"Upon my word, we were enchanted by your eloquence, Mr Gresham, were we not?" said Miss Oriel,
turning to one of the de Courcy girls who was with her.

Miss Oriel was a very pretty girl; a little older than Frank Gresham,--perhaps a year or so.
She had dark hair, large round dark eyes, a nose a little too broad, a pretty mouth, a beautiful
chin, and, as we have said before, a large fortune;--that is, moderately large--let us say
twenty thousand pounds, there or thereabouts. She and her brother had been living at Greshamsbury
for the last two years, the living having been purchased for him--such were Mr Gresham's necessities--during
the lifetime of the last old incumbent. Miss Oriel was in every respect a nice neighbour; she
was good-humoured, lady-like, lively, neither too clever nor too stupid, belonging to a good
family, sufficiently fond of this world's good things, as became a pretty young lady so endowed,
and sufficiently fond, also, of the other world's good things, as became the mistress of a
clergyman's house.

"Indeed, yes," said the Lady Margaretta. "Frank is very eloquent. When he described our rapid
journey from London, he nearly moved me to tears. But well as he talks, I think he carves better."

"I wish you'd had to do it, Margaretta; both the carving and talking."

"Thank you, Frank; you're very civil."

"But there's one comfort, Miss Oriel; it's over now, and done. A fellow can't be made to come
of age twice."

"But you'll take your degree, Mr Gresham; and then, of course, there'll be another speech;
and then you'll get married, and there will be two or three more."

"I'll speak at your wedding, Miss Oriel, long before I do at my own."

"I shall not have the slightest objection. It will be so kind of you to patronise my husband."

"But, by Jove, will he patronise me? I know you'll marry some awful bigwig, or some terribly
clever fellow; won't she, Margaretta?"

"Miss Oriel was saying so much in praise of you before you came out," said Margaretta, "that
I began to think that her mind was intent on remaining at Greshamsbury all her life."

Frank blushed, and Patience laughed. There was but a year's difference in their age; Frank,
however, was still a boy, though Patience was fully a woman.

"I am ambitious, Lady Margaretta," said she. "I own it; but I am moderate in my ambition. I
do love Greshamsbury, and if Mr Gresham had a younger brother, perhaps, you know--"

"Another just like myself, I suppose," said Frank.

"Oh, yes. I could not possibly wish for any change."

"Just as eloquent as you are, Frank," said the Lady Margaretta.

"And as good a carver," said Patience.

"Miss Bateson has lost her heart to him for ever, because of his carving," said the Lady Margaretta.

"But perfection never repeats itself," said Patience.

"Well, you see, I have not got any brothers," said Frank; "so all I can do is to sacrifice myself."

"Upon my word, Mr Gresham, I am under more than ordinary obligations to you; I am indeed,"
and Miss Oriel stood still in the path, and made a very graceful curtsy. "Dear me! only think,
Lady Margaretta, that I should be honoured with an offer from the heir the very moment he is
legally entitled to make one."

"And done with so much true gallantry, too," said the other; "expressing himself quite willing
to postpone any views of his own or your advantage."

"Yes," said Patience; "that's what I value so much: had he loved me now, there would have been
no merit on his part; but a sacrifice, you know--"

"Yes, ladies are so fond of such sacrifices, Frank, upon my word, I had no idea you were so
very excellent at making speeches."

"Well," said Frank, "I shouldn't have said sacrifice, that was a slip; what I meant was--"

"Oh, dear me," said Patience, "wait a minute; now we are going to have a regular declaration.
Lady Margaretta, you haven't got a scent-bottle, have you? And if I should faint, where's the
garden-chair?"

"Oh, but I'm not going to make a declaration at all," said Frank.

"Are you not? Oh! Now, Lady Margaretta, I appeal to you; did you not understand him to say
something very particular?"

"Certainly, I thought nothing could be plainer," said the Lady Margaretta.

"And so, Mr Gresham, I am to be told, that after all it means nothing," said Patience, putting
her handkerchief up to her eyes.

"It means that you are an excellent hand at quizzing a fellow like me."

"Quizzing! No; but you are an excellent hand at deceiving a poor girl like me. Well, remember
I have got a witness; here is Lady Margaretta, who heard it all. What a pity it is that my
brother is a clergyman. You calculated on that, I know; or you would never had served me so."

She said so just as her brother joined them, or rather just as he had joined Lady Margaretta
de Courcy; for her ladyship and Mr Oriel walked on in advance by themselves. Lady Margaretta
had found it rather dull work, making a third in Miss Oriel's flirtation with her cousin; the
more so as she was quite accustomed to take a principal part herself in all such transactions.
She therefore not unwillingly walked on with Mr Oriel. Mr Oriel, it must be conceived, was
not a common, everyday parson, but had points about him which made him quite fit to associate
with an earl's daughter. And as it was known that he was not a marrying man, having very exalted
ideas on that point connected with his profession, the Lady Margaretta, of course, had the
less objection to trust herself alone with him.

But directly she was gone, Miss Oriel's tone of banter ceased. It was very well making a fool
of a lad of twenty-one when others were by; but there might be danger in it when they were
alone together.

"I don't know any position on earth more enviable than yours, Mr Gresham," said she, quite
soberly and earnestly; "how happy you ought to be."

"What, in being laughed at by you, Miss Oriel, for pretending to be a man, when you choose
to make out that I am only a boy? I can bear to be laughed at pretty well generally, but I
can't say that your laughing at me makes me feel so happy as you say I ought to be."

Frank was evidently of an opinion totally different from that of Miss Oriel. Miss Oriel, when
she found herself tête-à-tête with him, thought it was time to give over flirting; Frank, however,
imagined that it was just the moment for him to begin. So he spoke and looked very languishing,
and put on him quite the airs of an Orlando.

"Oh, Mr Gresham, such good friends as you and I may laugh at each other, may we not?"

"You may do what you like, Miss Oriel: beautiful women I believe always may; but you remember
what the spider said to the fly, 'That which is sport to you, may be death to me.'" Anyone
looking at Frank's face as he said this, might well have imagined that he was breaking his
very heart for love of Miss Oriel. Oh, Master Frank! Master Frank! if you act thus in the green
leaf, what will you do in the dry?

While Frank Gresham was thus misbehaving himself, and going on as though to him belonged the
privilege of falling in love with pretty faces, as it does to ploughboys and other ordinary
people, his great interests were not forgotten by those guardian saints who were so anxious
to shower down on his head all manner of temporal blessings.

Another conversation had taken place in the Greshamsbury gardens, in which nothing light had
been allowed to present itself; nothing frivolous had been spoken. The countess, the Lady Arabella,
and Miss Gresham had been talking over Greshamsbury affairs, and they had latterly been assisted
by the Lady Amelia, than whom no de Courcy ever born was more wise, more solemn, more prudent,
or more proud. The ponderosity of her qualifications for nobility was sometimes too much even
for her mother, and her devotion to the peerage was such, that she would certainly have declined
a seat in heaven if offered to her without the promise that it should be in the upper house.

The subject first discussed had been Augusta's prospects. Mr Moffat had been invited to Courcy
Castle, and Augusta had been taken thither to meet him, with the express intention on the part
of the countess, that they should be man and wife. The countess had been careful to make it
intelligible to her sister-in-law and niece, that though Mr Moffat would do excellently well
for a daughter of Greshamsbury, he could not be allowed to raise his eyes to a female scion
of Courcy Castle.

"Not that we personally dislike him," said the Lady Amelia; "but rank has its drawbacks, Augusta."
As the Lady Amelia was now somewhat nearer forty than thirty, and was still allowed to walk,

   "In maiden meditation, fancy free,"

it may be presumed that in her case rank had been found to have serious drawbacks.

To this Augusta said nothing in objection. Whether desirable by a de Courcy or not, the match
was to be hers, and there was no doubt whatever as to the wealth of the man whose name she
was to take; the offer had been made, not to her, but to her aunt; the acceptance had been
expressed, not by her, but by her aunt. Had she thought of recapitulating in her memory all
that had ever passed between Mr Moffat and herself, she would have found that it did not amount
to more than the most ordinary conversation between chance partners in a ball-room. Nevertheless,
she was to be Mrs Moffat. All that Mr Gresham knew of him was, that when he met the young man
for the first and only time in his life, he found him extremely hard to deal with in the matter
of money. He had insisted on having ten thousand pounds with his wife, and at last refused
to go on with the match unless he got six thousand pounds. This latter sum the poor squire
had undertaken to pay him.

Mr Moffat had been for a year or two M.P. for Barchester; having been assisted in his views
on that ancient city by all the de Courcy interest. He was a Whig, of course. Not only had
Barchester, departing from the light of other days, returned a Whig member of Parliament, but
it was declared, that at the next election, now near at hand, a Radical would be sent up, a
man pledged to the ballot, to economies of all sorts, one who would carry out Barchester politics
in all their abrupt, obnoxious, pestilent virulence. This was one Scatcherd, a great railway
contractor, a man who was a native of Barchester, who had bought property in the neighbourhood,
and who had achieved a sort of popularity there and elsewhere by the violence of his democratic
opposition to the aristocracy. According to this man's political tenets, the Conservatives
should be laughed at as fools, but the Whigs should be hated as knaves.

Mr Moffat was now coming down to Courcy Castle to look after his electioneering interests,
and Miss Gresham was to return with her aunt to meet him. The countess was very anxious that
Frank should also accompany them. Her great doctrine, that he must marry money, had been laid
down with authority, and received without doubt. She now pushed it further, and said that no
time should be lost; that he should not only marry money, but do so very early in life; there
was always danger in delay. The Greshams--of course she alluded only to the males of the family--were
foolishly soft-hearted; no one could say what might happen. There was that Miss Thorne always
at Greshamsbury.

This was more than the Lady Arabella could stand. She protested that there was at least no
ground for supposing that Frank would absolutely disgrace his family.

Still the countess persisted: "Perhaps not," she said; "but when young people of perfectly
different ranks were allowed to associate together, there was no saying what danger might arise.
They all knew that old Mr Bateson--the present Mr Bateson's father--had gone off with the governess;
and young Mr Everbeery, near Taunton, had only the other day married a cook-maid."

"But Mr Everbeery was always drunk, aunt," said Augusta, feeling called upon to say something
for her brother.

"Never mind, my dear; these things do happen, and they are very dreadful."

"Horrible!" said the Lady Amelia; "diluting the best blood of the country, and paving the way
for revolutions." This was very grand; but, nevertheless, Augusta could not but feel that she
perhaps might be about to dilute the blood of her coming children in marrying the tailor's
son. She consoled herself by trusting that, at any rate, she paved the way for no revolutions.

"When a thing is so necessary," said the countess, "it cannot be done too soon. Now, Arabella,
I don't say that anything will come of it; but it may: Miss Dunstable is coming down to us
next week. Now, we all know that when old Dunstable died last year, he left over two hundred
thousand to his daughter."

"It is a great deal of money, certainly," said Lady Arabella.

"It would pay off everything, and a great deal more," said the countess.

"It was ointment, was it not, aunt?" said Augusta.

"I believe so, my dear; something called the ointment of Lebanon, or something of that sort:
but there's no doubt about the money."

"But how old is she, Rosina?" asked the anxious mother.

"About thirty, I suppose; but I don't think that much signifies."

"Thirty," said Lady Arabella, rather dolefully. "And what is she like? I think that Frank already
begins to like girls that are young and pretty."

"But surely, aunt," said the Lady Amelia, "now that he has come to man's discretion, he will
not refuse to consider all that he owes to his family. A Mr Gresham of Greshamsbury has a position
to support." The de Courcy scion spoke these last words in the sort of tone that a parish clergyman
would use, in warning some young farmer's son that he should not put himself on an equal footing
with the ploughboys.

It was at last decided that the countess should herself convey to Frank a special invitation
to Courcy Castle, and that when she got him there, she should do all that lay in her power
to prevent his return to Cambridge, and to further the Dunstable marriage.

"We did think of Miss Dunstable for Porlock, once," she said, naïvely; "but when we found that
it wasn't much over two hundred thousand, why, that idea fell to the ground." The terms on
which the de Courcy blood might be allowed to dilute itself were, it must be presumed, very
high indeed.

Augusta was sent off to find her brother, and to send him to the countess in the small drawing-room.
Here the countess was to have her tea, apart from the outer common world, and here, without
interruption, she was to teach her great lesson to her nephew.

Augusta did find her brother, and found him in the worst of bad society--so at least the stern
de Courcys would have thought. Old Mr Bateson and the governess, Mr Everbeery and his cook's
diluted blood, and ways paved for revolutions, all presented themselves to Augusta's mind when
she found her brother walking with no other company than Mary Thorne, and walking with her,
too, in much too close proximity.

How he had contrived to be off with the old love and so soon on with the new, or rather, to
be off with the new love and again on with the old, we will not stop to inquire. Had Lady Arabella,
in truth, known all her son's doings in this way, could she have guessed how very nigh he had
approached the iniquity of old Mr Bateson, and to the folly of young Mr Everbeery, she would
in truth have been in a hurry to send him off to Courcy Castle and Miss Dunstable. Some days
before the commencement of our story, young Frank had sworn in sober earnest--in what he intended
for his most sober earnest, his most earnest sobriety--that he loved Mary Thorne with a love
for which words could find no sufficient expression--with a love that could never die, never
grow dim, never become less, which no opposition on the part of others could extinguish, which
no opposition on her part could repel; that he might, could, would, and should have her for
his wife, and that if she told him she didn't love him, he would--

"Oh, oh! Mary; do you love me? Don't you love me? Won't you love me? Say you will. Oh, Mary,
dearest Mary, will you? won't you? do you? don't you? Come now, you have a right to give a
fellow an answer."

With such eloquence had the heir of Greshamsbury, when not yet twenty-one years of age, attempted
to possess himself of the affections of the doctor's niece. And yet three days afterwards he
was quite ready to flirt with Miss Oriel.

If such things are done in the green wood, what will be done in the dry?

And what had Mary said when these fervent protestations of an undying love had been thrown
at her feet? Mary, it must be remembered, was very nearly of the same age as Frank; but, as
I and others have so often said before, "Women grow on the sunny side of the wall." Though
Frank was only a boy, it behoved Mary to be something more than a girl. Frank might be allowed,
without laying himself open to much just reproach, to throw all of what he believed to be his
heart into a protestation of what he believed to be love; but Mary was in duty bound to be
more thoughtful, more reticent, more aware of the facts of their position, more careful of
her own feelings, and more careful also of his.

And yet she could not put him down as another young lady might put down another young gentleman.
It is very seldom that a young man, unless he be tipsy, assumes an unwelcome familiarity in
his early acquaintance with any girl; but when acquaintance has been long and intimate, familiarity
must follow as a matter of course. Frank and Mary had been so much together in his holidays,
had so constantly consorted together as boys and girls, that, as regarded her, he had not that
innate fear of a woman which represses a young man's tongue; and she was so used to his good-humour,
his fun, and high jovial spirits, and was, withal, so fond of them and him, that it was very
difficult for her to mark with accurate feeling, and stop with reserved brow, the shade of
change from a boy's liking to a man's love.

And Beatrice, too, had done harm in this matter. With a spirit painfully unequal to that of
her grand relatives, she had quizzed Mary and Frank about their early flirtations. This she
had done; but had instinctively avoided doing so before her mother and sister, and had thus
made a secret of it, as it were, between herself, Mary, and her brother;--had given currency,
as it were, to the idea that there might be something serious between the two. Not that Beatrice
had ever wished to promote a marriage between them, or had even thought of such a thing. She
was girlish, thoughtless, imprudent, inartistic, and very unlike a de Courcy. Very unlike a
de Courcy she was in all that; but, nevertheless, she had the de Courcy veneration for blood,
and, more than that, she had the Gresham feeling joined to that of the de Courcys. The Lady
Amelia would not for worlds have had the de Courcy blood defiled; but gold she thought could
not defile. Now Beatrice was ashamed of her sister's marriage, and had often declared, within
her own heart, that nothing could have made her marry a Mr Moffat.

She had said so also to Mary, and Mary had told her that she was right. Mary also was proud
of blood, was proud of her uncle's blood, and the two girls talked together in all the warmth
of girlish confidence, of the great glories of family traditions and family honours. Beatrice
had talked in utter ignorance as to her friend's birth; and Mary, poor Mary, she had talked,
being as ignorant; but not without a strong suspicion that, at some future time, a day of sorrow
would tell her some fearful truth.

On one point Mary's mind was strongly made up. No wealth, no mere worldly advantage could make
any one her superior. If she were born a gentlewoman, then was she fit to match with any gentleman.
Let the most wealthy man in Europe pour all his wealth at her feet, she could, if so inclined,
give him back at any rate more than that. That offered at her feet she knew she would never
tempt her to yield up the fortress of her heart, the guardianship of her soul, the possession
of her mind; not that alone, nor that, even, as any possible slightest fraction of a make-weight.

If she were born a gentlewoman! And then came to her mind those curious questions; what makes
a gentleman? what makes a gentlewoman? What is the inner reality, the spiritualised quintessence
of that privilege in the world which men call rank, which forces the thousands and hundreds
of thousands to bow down before the few elect? What gives, or can give it, or should give it?

And she answered the question. Absolute, intrinsic, acknowledged, individual merit must give
it to its possessor, let him be whom, and what, and whence he might. So far the spirit of democracy
was strong with her. Beyond this it could be had but by inheritance, received as it were second-hand,
or twenty-second-hand. And so far the spirit of aristocracy was strong within her. All this
she had, as may be imagined, learnt in early years from her uncle; and all this she was at
great pains to teach Beatrice Gresham, the chosen of her heart.

When Frank declared that Mary had a right to give him an answer, he meant that he had a right
to expect one. Mary acknowledged this right, and gave it to him.

"Mr Gresham," she said.

"Oh, Mary; Mr Gresham!"

"Yes, Mr Gresham. It must be Mr Gresham after that. And, moreover, it must be Miss Thorne as well."

"I'll be shot if it shall, Mary."

"Well; I can't say that I shall be shot if it be not so; but if it be not so, if you do not
agree that it shall be so, I shall be turned out of Greshamsbury."

"What! you mean my mother?" said Frank.

"Indeed, I mean no such thing," said Mary, with a flash from her eye that made Frank almost
start. "I mean no such thing. I mean you, not your mother. I am not in the least afraid of
Lady Arabella; but I am afraid of you."

"Afraid of me, Mary!"

"Miss Thorne; pray, pray, remember. It must be Miss Thorne. Do not turn me out of Greshamsbury.
Do not separate me from Beatrice. It is you that will drive me out; no one else. I could stand
my ground against your mother--I feel I could; but I cannot stand against you if you treat
me otherwise than--than--"

"Otherwise than what? I want to treat you as the girl I have chosen from all the world as my wife."

"I am sorry you should so soon have found it necessary to make a choice. But, Mr Gresham, we
must not joke about this at present. I am sure you would not willingly injure me; but if you
speak to me, or of me, again in that way, you will injure me, injure me so much that I shall
be forced to leave Greshamsbury in my own defence. I know you are too generous to drive me
to that."

And so the interview had ended. Frank, of course, went upstairs to see if his new pocket-pistols
were all ready, properly cleaned, loaded, and capped, should he find, after a few days' experience,
that prolonged existence was unendurable.

However, he managed to live through the subsequent period; doubtless with a view of preventing
any disappointment to his father's guests.

CHAPTER VII

The Doctor's Garden

Mary had contrived to quiet her lover with considerable propriety of demeanour. Then came on
her the somewhat harder task of quieting herself. Young ladies, on the whole, are perhaps quite
as susceptible of the softer feelings as young gentlemen are. Now Frank Gresham was handsome,
amiable, by no means a fool in intellect, excellent in heart; and he was, moreover, a gentleman,
being the son of Mr Gresham of Greshamsbury. Mary had been, as it were, brought up to love
him. Had aught but good happened to him, she would have cried as for a brother. It must not
therefore be supposed that when Frank Gresham told her that he loved her, she had heard it
altogether unconcerned.

He had not, perhaps, made his declaration with that propriety of language in which such scenes
are generally described as being carried on. Ladies may perhaps think that Mary should have
been deterred, by the very boyishness of his manner, from thinking at all seriously on the
subject. His "will you, won't you--do you, don't you?" does not sound like the poetic raptures
of a highly inspired lover. But, nevertheless, there had been warmth, and a reality in it not
in itself repulsive; and Mary's anger--anger? no, not anger--her objections to the declarations
were probably not based on the absurdity of her lover's language.

We are inclined to think that these matters are not always discussed by mortal lovers in the
poetically passionate phraseology which is generally thought to be appropriate for their description.
A man cannot well describe that which he has never seen nor heard; but the absolute words and
acts of one such scene did once come to the author's knowledge. The couple were by no means
plebeian, or below the proper standard of high bearing and high breeding; they were a handsome
pair, living among educated people, sufficiently given to mental pursuits, and in every way
what a pair of polite lovers ought to be. The all-important conversation passed in this wise.
The site of the passionate scene was the sea-shore, on which they were walking, in autumn.

Gentleman. "Well, Miss ----, the long and short of it is this: here I am; you can take me or
leave me."

Lady--scratching a gutter on the sand with her parasol, so as to allow a little salt water
to run out of one hole into another. "Of course, I know that's all nonsense."

Gentleman. "Nonsense! By Jove, it isn't nonsense at all: come, Jane; here I am: come, at any
rate you can say something."

Lady. "Yes, I suppose I can say something."

Gentleman. "Well, which is it to be; take me or leave me?"

Lady--very slowly, and with a voice perhaps hardly articulate, carrying on, at the same time,
her engineering works on a wider scale. "Well, I don't exactly want to leave you."

And so the matter was settled: settled with much propriety and satisfaction; and both the lady
and gentleman would have thought, had they ever thought about the matter at all, that this,
the sweetest moment of their lives, had been graced by all the poetry by which such moments
ought to be hallowed.

When Mary had, as she thought, properly subdued young Frank, the offer of whose love she, at
any rate, knew was, at such a period of his life, an utter absurdity, then she found it necessary
to subdue herself. What happiness on earth could be greater than the possession of such a love,
had the true possession been justly and honestly within her reach? What man could be more lovable
than such a man as would grow from such a boy? And then, did she not love him,--love him already,
without waiting for any change? Did she not feel that there was that about him, about him and
about herself, too, which might so well fit them for each other? It would be so sweet to be
the sister of Beatrice, the daughter of the squire, to belong to Greshamsbury as a part and
parcel of itself.

But though she could not restrain these thoughts, it never for a moment occurred to her to
take Frank's offer in earnest. Though she was a grown woman, he was still a boy. He would have
to see the world before he settled in it, and would change his mind about woman half a score
of times before he married. Then, too, though she did not like the Lady Arabella, she felt
that she owed something, if not to her kindness, at least to her forbearance; and she knew,
felt inwardly certain, that she would be doing wrong, that the world would say she was doing
wrong, that her uncle would think her wrong, if she endeavoured to take advantage of what had
passed.

She had not for an instant doubted; not for a moment had she contemplated it as possible that
she should ever become Mrs Gresham because Frank had offered to make her so; but, nevertheless,
she could not help thinking of what had occurred--of thinking of it, most probably much more
than Frank did himself.

A day or two afterwards, on the evening before Frank's birthday, she was alone with her uncle,
walking in the garden behind their house, and she then essayed to question him, with the object
of learning if she were fitted by her birth to be the wife of such a one as Frank Gresham.
They were in the habit of walking there together when he happened to be at home of a summer's
evening. This was not often the case, for his hours of labour extended much beyond those usual
to the upper working world, the hours, namely, between breakfast and dinner; but those minutes
that they did thus pass together, the doctor regarded as perhaps the pleasantest of his life.

"Uncle," said she, after a while, "what do you think of this marriage of Miss Gresham's?"

"Well, Minnie"--such was his name of endearment for her--"I can't say I have thought much about
it, and I don't suppose anybody else has either."

"She must think about it, of course; and so must he, I suppose."

"I'm not so sure of that. Some folks would never get married if they had to trouble themselves
with thinking about it."

"I suppose that's why you never got married, uncle?"

"Either that, or thinking of it too much. One is as bad as the other."

Mary had not contrived to get at all near her point as yet; so she had to draw off, and after
a while begin again.

"Well, I have been thinking about it, at any rate, uncle."

"That's very good of you; that will save me the trouble; and perhaps save Miss Gresham too.
If you have thought it over thoroughly, that will do for all."

"I believe Mr Moffat is a man of no family."

"He'll mend in that point, no doubt, when he has got a wife."

"Uncle, you're a goose; and what is worse, a very provoking goose."

"Niece, you're a gander; and what is worse, a very silly gander. What is Mr Moffat's family
to you and me? Mr Moffat has that which ranks above family honours. He is a very rich man."

"Yes," said Mary, "I know he is rich; and a rich man I suppose can buy anything--except a woman
that is worth having."

"A rich man can buy anything," said the doctor; "not that I meant to say that Mr Moffat has
bought Miss Gresham. I have no doubt that they will suit each other very well," he added with
an air of decisive authority, as though he had finished the subject.

But his niece was determined not to let him pass so. "Now, uncle," said she, "you know you
are pretending to a great deal of worldly wisdom, which, after all, is not wisdom at all in
your eyes."

"Am I?"

"You know you are: and as for the impropriety of discussing Miss Gresham's marriage--"

"I did not say it was improper."

"Oh, yes, you did; of course such things must be discussed. How is one to have an opinion if
one does not get it by looking at the things which happen around us?"

"Now I am going to be blown up," said Dr Thorne.

"Dear uncle, do be serious with me."

"Well, then, seriously, I hope Miss Gresham will be very happy as Mrs Moffat."

"Of course you do: so do I. I hope it as much as I can hope what I don't at all see ground
for expecting."

"People constantly hope without any such ground."

"Well, then, I'll hope in this case. But, uncle--"

"Well, my dear?"

"I want your opinion, truly and really. If you were a girl--"

"I am perfectly unable to give any opinion founded on so strange an hypothesis."

"Well; but if you were a marrying man."

"The hypothesis is quite as much out of my way."

"But, uncle, I am a girl, and perhaps I may marry;--or at any rate think of marrying some day."

"The latter alternative is certainly possible enough."

"Therefore, in seeing a friend taking such a step, I cannot but speculate on the matter as
though I were myself in her place. If I were Miss Gresham, should I be right?"

"But, Minnie, you are not Miss Gresham."

"No, I am Mary Thorne; it is a very different thing, I know. I suppose I might marry any one
without degrading myself."

It was almost ill-natured of her to say this; but she had not meant to say it in the sense
which the sounds seemed to bear. She had failed in being able to bring her uncle to the point
she wished by the road she had planned, and in seeking another road, she had abruptly fallen
into unpleasant places.

"I should be very sorry that my niece should think so," said he; "and am sorry, too, that she
should say so. But, Mary, to tell the truth, I hardly know at what you are driving. You are,
I think, not so clear minded--certainly, not so clear worded--as is usual with you."

"I will tell you, uncle;" and, instead of looking up into his face, she turned her eyes down
on the green lawn beneath her feet.

"Well, Minnie, what is it?" and he took both her hands in his.

"I think that Miss Gresham should not marry Mr Moffat. I think so because her family is high
and noble, and because he is low and ignoble. When one has an opinion on such matters, one
cannot but apply it to things and people around one; and having applied my opinion to her,
the next step naturally is to apply it to myself. Were I Miss Gresham, I would not marry Mr
Moffat though he rolled in gold. I know where to rank Miss Gresham. What I want to know is,
where I ought to rank myself?"

They had been standing when she commenced her last speech; but as she finished it, the doctor
moved on again, and she moved with him. He walked on slowly without answering her; and she,
out of her full mind, pursued aloud the tenor of her thoughts.

"If a woman feels that she would not lower herself by marrying in a rank beneath herself, she
ought also to feel that she would not lower a man that she might love by allowing him to marry
into a rank beneath his own--that is, to marry her."

"That does not follow," said the doctor quickly. "A man raises a woman to his own standard,
but a woman must take that of the man she marries."

Again they were silent, and again they walked on, Mary holding her uncle's arm with both her
hands. She was determined, however, to come to the point, and after considering for a while
how best she might do it, she ceased to beat any longer about the bush, and asked him a plain
question.

"The Thornes are as good a family as the Greshams, are they not?"

"In absolute genealogy they are, my dear. That is, when I choose to be an old fool and talk
of such matters in a sense different from that in which they are spoken of by the world at
large, I may say that the Thornes are as good, or perhaps better, than the Greshams, but I
should be sorry to say so seriously to any one. The Greshams now stand much higher in the county
than the Thornes do."

"But they are of the same class."

"Yes, yes; Wilfred Thorne of Ullathorne, and our friend the squire here, are of the same class."

"But, uncle, I and Augusta Gresham--are we of the same class?"

"Well, Minnie, you would hardly have me boast that I am the same class with the squire--I,
a poor country doctor?"

"You are not answering me fairly, dear uncle; dearest uncle, do you not know that you are not
answering me fairly? You know what I mean. Have I a right to call the Thornes of Ullathorne
my cousins?"

"Mary, Mary, Mary!" said he after a minute's pause, still allowing his arm to hang loose, that
she might hold it with both her hands. "Mary, Mary, Mary! I would that you had spared me this!"

"I could not have spared it to you for ever, uncle."

"I would that you could have done so; I would that you could!"

"It is over now, uncle: it is told now. I will grieve you no more. Dear, dear, dearest! I should
love you more than ever now; I would, I would, I would if that were possible. What should I
be but for you? What must I have been but for you?" And she threw herself on his breast, and
clinging with her arms round his neck, kissed his forehead, cheeks, and lips.

There was nothing more said then on the subject between them. Mary asked no further question,
nor did the doctor volunteer further information. She would have been most anxious to ask about
her mother's history had she dared to do so; but she did not dare to ask; she could not bear
to be told that her mother had been, perhaps was, a worthless woman. That she was truly a daughter
of a brother of the doctor, that she did know. Little as she had heard of her relatives in
her early youth, few as had been the words which had fallen from her uncle in her hearing as
to her parentage, she did know this, that she was the daughter of Henry Thorne, a brother of
the doctor, and a son of the old prebendary. Trifling little things that had occurred, accidents
which could not be prevented, had told her this; but not a word had ever passed any one's lips
as to her mother. The doctor, when speaking of his youth, had spoken of her father; but no
one had spoken of her mother. She had long known that she was the child of a Thorne; now she
knew also that she was no cousin of the Thornes of Ullathorne; no cousin, at least, in the
world's ordinary language, no niece indeed of her uncle, unless by his special permission that
she should be so.

When the interview was over, she went up alone to the drawing-room, and there she sat thinking.
She had not been there long before her uncle came up to her. He did not sit down, or even take
off the hat which he still wore; but coming close to her, and still standing, he spoke thus:--

"Mary, after what has passed I should be very unjust and very cruel to you not to tell you
one thing more than you have now learned. Your mother was unfortunate in much, not in everything;
but the world, which is very often stern in such matters, never judged her to have disgraced
herself. I tell you this, my child, in order that you may respect her memory;" and so saying,
he again left her without giving her time to speak a word.

What he then told her he had told in mercy. He felt what must be her feelings when she reflected
that she had to blush for her mother; that not only could she not speak of her mother, but
that she might hardly think of her with innocence; and to mitigate such sorrow as this, and
also to do justice to the woman whom his brother had so wronged, he had forced himself to reveal
so much as is stated above.

And then he walked slowly by himself, backwards and forwards through the garden, thinking of
what he had done with reference to this girl, and doubting whether he had done wisely and well.
He had resolved, when first the little infant was given over to his charge, that nothing should
be known of her or by her as to her mother. He was willing to devote himself to this orphan
child of his brother, this last seedling of his father's house; but he was not willing so to
do this as to bring himself in any manner into familiar contact with the Scatcherds. He had
boasted to himself that he, at any rate, was a gentleman; and that she, if she were to live
in his house, sit at his table, and share his hearth, must be a lady. He would tell no lie
about her; he would not to any one make her out to be aught other or aught better than she
was; people would talk about her of course, only let them not talk to him; he conceived of
himself--and the conception was not without due ground--that should any do so, he had that
within him which would silence them. He would never claim for this little creature--thus brought
into the world without a legitimate position in which to stand--he would never claim for her
any station that would not properly be her own. He would make for her a station as best he
could. As he might sink or swim, so should she.

So he had resolved; but things had arranged themselves, as they often do, rather than been
arranged by him. During ten or twelve years no one had heard of Mary Thorne; the memory of
Henry Thorne and his tragic death had passed away; the knowledge that an infant had been born
whose birth was connected with that tragedy, a knowledge never widely spread, had faded down
into utter ignorance. At the end of these twelve years, Dr Thorne had announced, that a young
niece, a child of a brother long since dead, was coming to live with him. As he had contemplated,
no one spoke to him; but some people did no doubt talk among themselves. Whether or not the
exact truth was surmised by any, it matters not to say; with absolute exactness, probably not;
with great approach to it, probably yes. By one person, at any rate, no guess whatever was
made; no thought relative to Dr Thorne's niece ever troubled him; no idea that Mary Scatcherd
had left a child in England ever occurred to him; and that person was Roger Scatcherd, Mary's
brother.

To one friend, and only one, did the doctor tell the whole truth, and that was to the old squire.
"I have told you," said the doctor, "partly that you may know that the child has no right to
mix with your children if you think much of such things. Do you, however, see to this. I would
rather that no one else should be told."

No one else had been told; and the squire had "seen to it," by accustoming himself to look
at Mary Thorne running about the house with his own children as though she were of the same
brood. Indeed, the squire had always been fond of Mary, had personally noticed her, and, in
the affair of Mam'selle Larron, had declared that he would have her placed at once on the bench
of magistrates;--much to the disgust of the Lady Arabella.

And so things had gone on and on, and had not been thought of with much downright thinking;
till now, when she was one-and-twenty years of age, his niece came to him, asking as to her
position, and inquiring in what rank of life she was to look for a husband.

And so the doctor walked backwards and forwards through the garden, slowly, thinking now with
some earnestness what if, after all, he had been wrong about his niece? What if by endeavouring
to place her in the position of a lady, he had falsely so placed her, and robbed her of all
legitimate position? What if there was no rank of life to which she could now properly attach
herself?

And then, how had it answered, that plan of his of keeping her all to himself? He, Dr Thorne,
was still a poor man; the gift of saving money had not been his; he had ever had a comfortable
house for her to live in, and, in spite of Doctors Fillgrave, Century, Rerechild, and others,
had made from his profession an income sufficient for their joint wants; but he had not done
as others do: he had no three or four thousand pounds in the Three per Cents. on which Mary
might live in some comfort when he should die. Late in life he had insured his life for eight
hundred pounds; and to that, and that only, had he to trust for Mary's future maintenance.
How had it answered, then, this plan of letting her be unknown to, and undreamed of by, those
who were as near to her on her mother's side as he was on the father's? On that side, though
there had been utter poverty, there was now absolute wealth.

But when he took her to himself, had he not rescued her from the very depths of the lowest
misery: from the degradation of the workhouse; from the scorn of honest-born charity-children;
from the lowest of the world's low conditions? Was she not now the apple of his eye, his one
great sovereign comfort--his pride, his happiness, his glory? Was he to make her over, to make
any portion of her over to others, if, by doing so, she might be able to share the wealth,
as well as the coarse manners and uncouth society of her at present unknown connexions? He,
who had never worshipped wealth on his own behalf; he, who had scorned the idol of gold, and
had ever been teaching her to scorn it; was he now to show that his philosophy had all been
false as soon as the temptation to do so was put in his way?

But yet, what man would marry this bastard child, without a sixpence, and bring not only poverty,
but ill blood also on his own children? It might be very well for him, Dr Thorne; for him whose
career was made, whose name, at any rate, was his own; for him who had a fixed standing-ground
in the world; it might be well for him to indulge in large views of a philosophy antagonistic
to the world's practice; but had he a right to do it for his niece? What man would marry a
girl so placed? For those among whom she might have legitimately found a level, education had
now utterly unfitted her. And then, he well knew that she would never put out her hand in token
of love to any one without telling all she knew and all she surmised as to her own birth.

And that question of this evening; had it not been instigated by some appeal to her heart?
Was there not already within her breast some cause for disquietude which had made her so pertinacious?
Why else had she told him then, for the first time, that she did not know where to rank herself?
If such an appeal had been made to her, it must have come from young Frank Gresham. What, in
such case, would it behove him to do? Should he pack up his all, his lancet-cases, pestle and
mortar, and seek anew fresh ground in a new world, leaving behind a huge triumph to those learned
enemies of his, Fillgrave, Century, and Rerechild? Better that than remain at Greshamsbury
at the cost of his child's heart and pride.

And so he walked slowly backwards and forwards through his garden, meditating these things
painfully enough.

CHAPTER VIII

Matrimonial Prospects

It will of course be remembered that Mary's interview with the other girls at Greshamsbury
took place some two or three days subsequently to Frank's generous offer of his hand and heart.
Mary had quite made up her mind that the whole thing was to be regarded as a folly, and that
it was not to be spoken of to any one; but yet her heart was sore enough. She was full of pride,
and yet she knew she must bow her neck to the pride of others. Being, as she was herself, nameless,
she could not but feel a stern, unflinching antagonism, the antagonism of a democrat, to the
pretensions of others who were blessed with that of which she had been deprived. She had this
feeling; and yet, of all the things that she coveted, she most coveted that, for glorying in
which, she was determined to heap scorn on others. She said to herself, proudly, that God's
handiwork was the inner man, the inner woman, the naked creature animated by a living soul;
that all other adjuncts were but man's clothing for the creature; all others, whether stitched
by tailors or contrived by kings. Was it not within her capacity to do as nobly, to love as
truly, to worship her God in heaven with as perfect a faith, and her god on earth with as leal
a troth, as though blood had descended to her purely through scores of purely born progenitors?
So to herself she spoke; and yet, as she said it, she knew that were she a man, such a man
as the heir of Greshamsbury should be, nothing would tempt her to sully her children's blood
by mating herself with any one that was base born. She felt that were she an Augusta Gresham,
no Mr Moffat, let his wealth be what it might, should win her hand unless he too could tell
of family honours and a line of ancestors.

And so, with a mind at war with itself, she came forth armed to do battle against the world's
prejudices, those prejudices she herself loved so well.

And was she to give up her old affections, her feminine loves, because she found that she was
a cousin to nobody? Was she no longer to pour out her heart to Beatrice Gresham with all the
girlish volubility of an equal? Was she to be severed from Patience Oriel, and banished--or
rather was she to banish herself--from the free place she had maintained in the various youthful
female conclaves held within that parish of Greshamsbury?

Hitherto, what Mary Thorne would say, what Miss Thorne suggested in such or such a matter,
was quite as frequently asked as any opinion from Augusta Gresham--quite as frequently, unless
when it chanced that any of the de Courcy girls were at the house. Was this to be given up?
These feelings had grown up among them since they were children, and had not hitherto been
questioned among them. Now they were questioned by Mary Thorne. Was she in fact to find that
her position had been a false one, and must be changed?

Such had been her feelings when she protested that she would not be Augusta Gresham's bridesmaid,
and offered to put her neck beneath Beatrice's foot; when she drove the Lady Margaretta out
of the room, and gave her own opinion as to the proper grammatical construction of the word
humble; such also had been her feelings when she kept her hand so rigidly to herself while
Frank held the dining-room door open for her to pass through.

"Patience Oriel," said she to herself, "can talk to him of her father and mother: let Patience
take his hand; let her talk to him;" and then, not long afterwards, she saw that Patience did
talk to him; and seeing it, she walked along silent, among some of the old people, and with
much effort did prevent a tear from falling down her cheek.

But why was the tear in her eye? Had she not proudly told Frank that his love-making was nothing
but a boy's silly rhapsody? Had she not said so while she had yet reason to hope that her blood
was as good as his own? Had she not seen at a glance that his love tirade was worthy of ridicule,
and of no other notice? And yet there was a tear now in her eye because this boy, whom she
had scolded from her, whose hand, offered in pure friendship, she had just refused, because
he, so rebuffed by her, had carried his fun and gallantry to one who would be less cross to him!

She could hear as she was walking, that while Lady Margaretta was with them, their voices were
loud and merry; and her sharp ear could also hear, when Lady Margaretta left them, that Frank's
voice became low and tender. So she walked on, saying nothing, looking straight before her,
and by degrees separating herself from all the others.

The Greshamsbury grounds were on one side somewhat too closely hemmed in by the village. On
this side was a path running the length of one of the streets of the village; and far down
the path, near to the extremity of the gardens, and near also to a wicket-gate which led out
into the village, and which could be opened from the inside, was a seat, under a big yew-tree,
from which, through a breach in the houses, might be seen the parish church, standing in the
park on the other side. Hither Mary walked alone, and here she seated herself, determined to
get rid of her tears and their traces before she again showed herself to the world.

"I shall never be happy here again," said she to herself; "never. I am no longer one of them,
and I cannot live among them unless I am so." And then an idea came across her mind that she
hated Patience Oriel; and then, instantly another idea followed it--quick as such thoughts
are quick--that she did not hate Patience Oriel at all; that she liked her, nay, loved her;
that Patience Oriel was a sweet girl; and that she hoped the time would come when she might
see her the lady of Greshamsbury. And then the tear, which had been no whit controlled, which
indeed had now made itself master of her, came to a head, and, bursting through the floodgates
of the eye, came rolling down, and in its fall, wetted her hand as it lay on her lap. "What
a fool! what an idiot! what an empty-headed cowardly fool I am!" said she, springing up from
the bench on her feet.

As she did so, she heard voices close to her, at the little gate. They were those of her uncle
and Frank Gresham.

"God bless you, Frank!" said the doctor, as he passed out of the grounds. "You will excuse
a lecture, won't you, from so old a friend?--though you are a man now, and discreet, of course,
by Act of Parliament."

"Indeed I will, doctor," said Frank. "I will excuse a longer lecture than that from you."

"At any rate it won't be to-night," said the doctor, as he disappeared. "And if you see Mary,
tell her that I am obliged to go; and that I will send Janet down to fetch her."

Now Janet was the doctor's ancient maid-servant.

Mary could not move on without being perceived; she therefore stood still till she heard the
click of the door, and then began walking rapidly back to the house by the path which had brought
her thither. The moment, however, that she did so, she found that she was followed; and in
a very few moments Frank was alongside of her.

"Oh, Mary!" said he, calling to her, but not loudly, before he quite overtook her, "how odd
that I should come across you just when I have a message for you! and why are you all alone?"

Mary's first impulse was to reiterate her command to him to call her no more by her Christian
name; but her second impulse told her that such an injunction at the present moment would not
be prudent on her part. The traces of her tears were still there; and she well knew that a
very little, the slightest show of tenderness on his part, the slightest effort on her own
to appear indifferent, would bring down more than one other such intruder. It would, moreover,
be better for her to drop all outward sign that she remembered what had taken place. So long,
then, as he and she were at Greshamsbury together, he should call her Mary if he pleased. He
would soon be gone; and while he remained, she would keep out of his way.

"Your uncle has been obliged to go away to see an old woman at Silverbridge."

"At Silverbridge! why, he won't be back all night. Why could not the old woman send for Dr
Century?"

"I suppose she thought two old women could not get on well together."

Mary could not help smiling. She did not like her uncle going off so late on such a journey;
but it was always felt as a triumph when he was invited into the strongholds of his enemies.

"And Janet is to come over for you. However, I told him it was quite unnecessary to disturb
another old woman, for that I should of course see you home."

"Oh, no, Mr Gresham; indeed you'll not do that."

"Indeed, and indeed, I shall."

"What! on this great day, when every lady is looking for you, and talking of you. I suppose
you want to set the countess against me for ever. Think, too, how angry Lady Arabella will
be if you are absent on such an errand as this."

"To hear you talk, Mary, one would think that you were going to Silverbridge yourself."

"Perhaps I am."

"If I did not go with you, some of the other fellows would. John, or George--"

"Good gracious, Frank! Fancy either of the Mr de Courcys walking home with me!"

She had forgotten herself, and the strict propriety on which she had resolved, in the impossibility
of forgoing her little joke against the de Courcy grandeur; she had forgotten herself, and
had called him Frank in her old, former, eager, free tone of voice; and then, remembering she
had done so, she drew herself up, but her lips, and determined to be doubly on her guard in
the future.

"Well, it shall be either one of them or I," said Frank: "perhaps you would prefer my cousin
George to me?"

"I should prefer Janet to either, seeing that with her I should not suffer the extreme nuisance
of knowing that I was a bore."

"A bore! Mary, to me?"

"Yes, Mr Gresham, a bore to you. Having to walk home through the mud with village young ladies
is boring. All gentlemen feel it to be so."

"There is no mud; if there were you would not be allowed to walk at all."

"Oh! village young ladies never care for such things, though fashionable gentlemen do."

"I would carry you home, Mary, if it would do you a service," said Frank, with considerable
pathos in his voice.

"Oh, dear me! pray do not, Mr Gresham. I should not like it at all," said she: "a wheelbarrow
would be preferable to that."

"Of course. Anything would be preferable to my arm, I know."

"Certainly; anything in the way of a conveyance. If I were to act baby; and you were to act
nurse, it really would not be comfortable for either of us."

Frank Gresham felt disconcerted, though he hardly knew why. He was striving to say something
tender to his lady-love; but every word that he spoke she turned into joke. Mary did not answer
him coldly or unkindly; but, nevertheless, he was displeased. One does not like to have one's
little offerings of sentimental service turned into burlesque when one is in love in earnest.
Mary's jokes had appeared so easy too; they seemed to come from a heart so little troubled.
This, also, was cause of vexation to Frank. If he could but have known all, he would, perhaps,
have been better pleased.

He determined not to be absolutely laughed out of his tenderness. When, three days ago, he
had been repulsed, he had gone away owning to himself that he had been beaten; owning so much,
but owning it with great sorrow and much shame. Since that he had come of age; since that he
had made speeches, and speeches had been made to him; since that he had gained courage by flirting
with Patience Oriel. No faint heart ever won a fair lady, as he was well aware; he resolved,
therefore, that his heart should not be faint, and that he would see whether the fair lady
might not be won by becoming audacity.

"Mary," said he, stopping in the path--for they were now near the spot where it broke out upon
the lawn, and they could already hear the voices of the guests--"Mary, you are unkind to me."

"I am not aware of it, Mr Gresham; but if I am, do not you retaliate. I am weaker than you,
and in your power; do not you, therefore, be unkind to me."

"You refused my hand just now," continued he. "Of all the people here at Greshamsbury, you
are the only one that has not wished me joy; the only one--"

"I do wish you joy; I will wish you joy; there is my hand," and she frankly put out her ungloved
hand. "You are quite man enough to understand me: there is my hand; I trust you use it only
as it is meant to be used."

He took it in his and pressed it cordially, as he might have done that of any other friend
in such a case; and then--did not drop it as he should have done. He was not a St Anthony,
and it was most imprudent in Miss Thorne to subject him to such a temptation.

"Mary," said he; "dear Mary! dearest Mary! if you did but know how I love you!"

As he said this, holding Miss Thorne's hand, he stood on the pathway with his back towards
the lawn and house, and, therefore, did not at first see his sister Augusta, who had just at
that moment come upon them. Mary blushed up to her straw hat, and, with a quick jerk, recovered
her hand. Augusta saw the motion, and Mary saw that Augusta had seen it.

From my tedious way of telling it, the reader will be led to imagine that the hand-squeezing
had been protracted to a duration quite incompatible with any objection to such an arrangement
on the part of the lady; but the fault is mine: in no part hers. Were I possessed of a quick
spasmodic style of narrative, I should have been able to include it all--Frank's misbehaviour,
Mary's immediate anger, Augusta's arrival, and keen, Argus-eyed inspection, and then Mary's
subsequent misery--in five words and half a dozen dashes and inverted commas. The thing should
have been so told; for, to do Mary justice, she did not leave her hand in Frank's a moment
longer than she could help herself.

Frank, feeling the hand withdrawn, and hearing, when it was too late, the step on the gravel,
turned sharply round. "Oh, it's you, is it, Augusta? Well, what do you want?"

Augusta was not naturally very ill-natured, seeing that in her veins the high de Courcy blood
was somewhat tempered by an admixture of the Gresham attributes; nor was she predisposed to
make her brother her enemy by publishing to the world any of his little tender peccadilloes;
but she could not but bethink herself of what her aunt had been saying as to the danger of
any such encounters as that she just now had beheld; she could not but start at seeing her
brother thus, on the very brink of the precipice of which the countess had specially forewarned
her mother. She, Augusta, was, as she well knew, doing her duty by her family by marrying a
tailor's son for whom she did not care a chip, seeing the tailor's son was possessed of untold
wealth. Now when one member of a household is making a struggle for a family, it is painful
to see the benefit of that struggle negatived by the folly of another member. The future Mrs
Moffat did feel aggrieved by the fatuity of the young heir, and, consequently, took upon herself
to look as much like her Aunt de Courcy as she could do.

"Well, what is it?" said Frank, looking rather disgusted. "What makes you stick your chin up
and look in that way?" Frank had hitherto been rather a despot among his sisters, and forgot
that the eldest of them was now passing altogether from under his sway to that of the tailor's son.

"Frank," said Augusta, in a tone of voice which did honour to the great lessons she had lately
received. "Aunt de Courcy wants to see you immediately in the small drawing-room;" and, as
she said so, she resolved to say a few words of advice to Miss Thorne as soon as her brother
should have left them.

"In the small drawing-room, does she? Well, Mary, we may as well go together, for I suppose
it is tea-time now."

"You had better go at once, Frank," said Augusta; "the countess will be angry if you keep her
waiting. She has been expecting you these twenty minutes. Mary Thorne and I can return together."

There was something in the tone in which the words, "Mary Thorne," were uttered, which made
Mary at once draw herself up. "I hope," said she, "that Mary Thorne will never be any hindrance
to either of you."

Frank's ear had also perceived that there was something in the tone of his sister's voice not
boding comfort to Mary; he perceived that the de Courcy blood in Augusta's veins was already
rebelling against the doctor's niece on his part, though it had condescended to submit itself
to the tailor's son on her own part.

"Well, I am going," said he; "but look here Augusta, if you say one word of Mary--"

Oh, Frank! Frank! you boy, you very boy! you goose, you silly goose! Is that the way you make
love, desiring one girl not to tell of another, as though you were three children, tearing
your frocks and trousers in getting through the same hedge together? Oh, Frank! Frank! you,
the full-blown heir of Greshamsbury? You, a man already endowed with a man's discretion? You,
the forward rider, that did but now threaten young Harry Baker and the Honourable John to eclipse
them by prowess in the field? You, of age? Why, thou canst not as yet have left thy mother's
apron-string!

"If you say one word of Mary--"

So far had he got in his injunction to his sister, but further than that, in such a case, was
he never destined to proceed. Mary's indignation flashed upon him, striking him dumb long before
the sound of her voice reached his ears; and yet she spoke as quick as the words would come
to her call, and somewhat loudly too.

"Say one word of Mary, Mr Gresham! And why should she not say as many words of Mary as she
may please? I must tell you all now, Augusta! and I must also beg you not to be silent for
my sake. As far as I am concerned, tell it to whom you please. This was the second time your
brother--"

"Mary, Mary," said Frank, deprecating her loquacity.

"I beg your pardon, Mr Gresham; you have made it necessary that I should tell your sister all.
He has now twice thought it well to amuse himself by saying to me words which it was ill-natured
in him to speak, and--"

"Ill-natured, Mary!"

"Ill-natured in him to speak," continued Mary, "and to which it would be absurd for me to listen.
He probably does the same to others," she added, being unable in heart to forget that sharpest
of her wounds, that flirtation of his with Patience Oriel; "but to me it is almost cruel. Another
girl might laugh at him, or listen to him, as she would choose; but I can do neither. I shall
now keep away from Greshamsbury, at any rate till he has left it; and, Augusta, I can only
beg you to understand, that, as far as I am concerned, there is nothing which may not be told
to all the world."

And, so saying, she walked on a little in advance of them, as proud as a queen. Had Lady de
Courcy herself met her at this moment, she would almost have felt herself forced to shrink
out of the pathway. "Not say a word of me!" she repeated to herself, but still out loud. "No
word need be left unsaid on my account; none, none."

Augusta followed her, dumfounded at her indignation; and Frank also followed, but not in silence.
When his first surprise at Mary's great anger was over, he felt himself called upon to say
some word that might tend to exonerate his lady-love; and some word also of protestation as
to his own purpose.

"There is nothing to be told, nothing, at least of Mary," he said, speaking to his sister;
"but of me, you may tell this, if you choose to disoblige your brother--that I love Mary Thorne
with all my heart; and that I will never love any one else."

By this time they had reached the lawn, and Mary was able to turn away from the path which
led up to the house. As she left them she said in a voice, now low enough, "I cannot prevent
him from talking nonsense, Augusta; but you will bear me witness, that I do not willingly hear
it." And, so saying, she started off almost in a run towards the distant part of the gardens,
in which she saw Beatrice.

Frank, as he walked up to the house with his sister, endeavoured to induce her to give him
a promise that she would tell no tales as to what she had heard and seen.

"Of course, Frank, it must be all nonsense," she had said; "and you shouldn't amuse yourself
in such a way."

"Well, but, Guss, come, we have always been friends; don't let us quarrel just when you are
going to be married." But Augusta would make no promise.

Frank, when he reached the house, found the countess waiting for him, sitting in the little
drawing-room by herself,--somewhat impatiently. As he entered he became aware that there was
some peculiar gravity attached to the coming interview. Three persons, his mother, one of his
younger sisters, and the Lady Amelia, each stopped him to let him know that the countess was
waiting; and he perceived that a sort of guard was kept upon the door to save her ladyship
from any undesirable intrusion.

The countess frowned at the moment of his entrance, but soon smoothed her brow, and invited
him to take a chair ready prepared for him opposite to the elbow of the sofa on which she was
leaning. She had a small table before her, on which was her teacup, so that she was able to
preach at him nearly as well as though she had been ensconced in a pulpit.

"My dear Frank," said she, in a voice thoroughly suitable to the importance of the communication,
"you have to-day come of age."

Frank remarked that he understood that such was the case, and added that "that was the reason
for all the fuss."

"Yes; you have to-day come of age. Perhaps I should have been glad to see such an occasion
noticed at Greshamsbury with some more suitable signs of rejoicing."

"Oh, aunt! I think we did it all very well."

"Greshamsbury, Frank, is, or at any rate ought to be, the seat of the first commoner in Barsetshire.

"Well; so it is. I am quite sure there isn't a better fellow than father anywhere in the county."

The countess sighed. Her opinion of the poor squire was very different from Frank's. "It is
no use now," said she, "looking back to that which cannot be cured. The first commoner in Barsetshire
should hold a position--I will not of course say equal to that of a peer."

"Oh dear no; of course not," said Frank; and a bystander might have thought that there was
a touch of satire in his tone.

"No, not equal to that of a peer; but still of very paramount importance. Of course my first
ambition is bound up in Porlock."

"Of course," said Frank, thinking how very weak was the staff on which his aunt's ambition
rested; for Lord Porlock's youthful career had not been such as to give unmitigated satisfaction
to his parents.

"Is bound up in Porlock:" and then the countess plumed herself; but the mother sighed. "And
next to Porlock, Frank, my anxiety is about you."

"Upon my honour, aunt, I am very much obliged. I shall be all right, you'll see."

"Greshamsbury, my dear boy, is not now what it used to be."

"Isn't it?" asked Frank.

"No, Frank; by no means. I do not wish to say a word against your father. It may, perhaps have
been his misfortune, rather than his fault--"

"She is always down on the governor; always," said Frank to himself; resolving to stick bravely
to the side of the house to which he had elected to belong.

"But there is the fact, Frank, too plain to us all; Greshamsbury is not what it was. It is
your duty to restore it to its former importance."

"My duty!" said Frank, rather puzzled.

"Yes, Frank, your duty. It all depends on you now. Of course you know that your father owes
a great deal of money."

Frank muttered something. Tidings had in some shape reached his ear that his father was not
comfortably circumstances as regarded money.

"And then, he has sold Boxall Hill. It cannot be expected that Boxall Hill shall be repurchased,
as some horrid man, a railway-maker, I believe--"

"Yes; that's Scatcherd."

"Well, he has built a house there, I'm told; so I presume that it cannot be bought back: but
it will be your duty, Frank, to pay all the debts that there are on the property, and to purchase
what, at any rate, will be equal to Boxall Hill."

Frank opened his eyes wide and stared at his aunt, as though doubting much whether or no she
were in her right mind. He pay off the family debts! He buy up property of four thousand pounds
a year! He remained, however, quite quiet, waiting the elucidation of the mystery.

"Frank, of course you understand me."

Frank was obliged to declare, that just at the present moment he did not find his aunt so clear
as usual.

"You have but one line of conduct left you, Frank: your position, as heir to Greshamsbury,
is a good one; but your father has unfortunately so hampered you with regard to money, that
unless you set the matter right yourself, you can never enjoy that position. Of course you
must marry money."

"Marry money!" said he, considering for the first time that in all probability Mary Thorne's
fortune would not be extensive. "Marry money!"

"Yes, Frank. I know no man whose position so imperatively demands it; and luckily for you,
no man can have more facility for doing so. In the first place you are very handsome."

Frank blushed like a girl of sixteen.

"And then, as the matter is made plain to you at so early an age, you are not of course hampered
by any indiscreet tie; by any absurd engagement."

Frank blushed again; and then saying to himself, "How much the old girl knows about it!" felt
a little proud of his passion for Mary Thorne, and of the declaration he had made to her.

"And your connexion with Courcy Castle," continued the countess, now carrying up the list of
Frank's advantages to its great climax, "will make the matter so easy for you, that really,
you will hardly have any difficulty."

Frank could not but say how much obliged he felt to Courcy Castle and its inmates.

"Of course I would not wish to interfere with you in any underhand way, Frank; but I will tell
you what has occurred to me. You have heard, probably, of Miss Dunstable?"

"The daughter of the ointment of Lebanon man?"

"And of course you know that her fortune is immense," continued the countess, not deigning
to notice her nephew's allusion to the ointment. "Quite immense when compared with the wants
and position of any commoner. Now she is coming to Courcy Castle, and I wish you to come and
meet her."

"But, aunt, just at this moment I have to read for my degree like anything. I go up, you know,
in October."

"Degree!" said the countess. "Why, Frank, I am talking to you of your prospects in life, of
your future position, of that on which everything hangs, and you tell me of your degree!"

Frank, however, obstinately persisted that he must take his degree, and that he should commence
reading hard at six a.m. to-morrow morning.

"You can read just as well at Courcy Castle. Miss Dunstable will not interfere with that,"
said his aunt, who knew the expediency of yielding occasionally; "but I must beg you will come
over and meet her. You will find her a most charming young woman, remarkably well educated
I am told, and--"

"How old is she?" asked Frank.

"I really cannot say exactly," said the countess; "but it is not, I imagine, matter of much
moment."

"Is she thirty?" asked Frank, who looked upon an unmarried woman of that age as quite an old maid.

"I dare say she may be about that age," said the countess, who regarded the subject from a
very different point of view.

"Thirty!" said Frank out loud, but speaking, nevertheless, as though to himself.

"It is a matter of no moment," said his aunt, almost angrily. "When the subject itself is of
such vital importance, objections of no real weight should not be brought into view. If you
wish to hold up your head in the country; if you wish to represent your county in Parliament,
as has been done by your father, your grandfather, and your great-grandfathers; if you wish
to keep a house over your head, and to leave Greshamsbury to your son after you, you must marry
money. What does it signify whether Miss Dunstable be twenty-eight or thirty? She has got money;
and if you marry her, you may then consider that your position in life is made."

Frank was astonished at his aunt's eloquence; but, in spite of that eloquence, he made up his
mind that he would not marry Miss Dunstable. How could he, indeed, seeing that his troth was
already plighted to Mary Thorne in the presence of his sister? This circumstance, however,
he did not choose to plead to his aunt, so he recapitulated any other objections that presented
themselves to his mind.

In the first place, he was so anxious about his degree that he could not think of marrying
at present; then he suggested that it might be better to postpone the question till the season's
hunting should be over; he declared that he could not visit Courcy Castle till he got a new
suit of clothes home from the tailor; and ultimately remembered that he had a particular engagement
to go fly-fishing with Mr Oriel on that day week.

None, however, of these valid reasons were sufficiently potent to turn the countess from her point.

"Nonsense, Frank," said she, "I wonder that you can talk of fly-fishing when the property of
Greshamsbury is at stake. You will go with Augusta and myself to Courcy Castle to-morrow."

"To-morrow, aunt!" he said, in the tone in which a condemned criminal might make his ejaculation
on hearing that a very near day had been named for his execution. "To-morrow!"

"Yes, we return to-morrow, and shall be happy to have your company. My friends, including Miss
Dunstable, come on Thursday. I am quite sure you will like Miss Dunstable. I have settled all
that with your mother, so we need say nothing further about it. And now, good-night, Frank."

Frank, finding that there was nothing more to be said, took his departure, and went out to
look for Mary. But Mary had gone home with Janet half an hour since, so he betook himself to
his sister Beatrice.

"Beatrice," said he, "I am to go to Courcy Castle to-morrow."

"So I heard mamma say."

"Well; I only came of age to-day, and I will not begin by running counter to them. But I tell
you what, I won't stay above a week at Courcy Castle for all the de Courcys in Barsetshire.
Tell me, Beatrice, did you ever hear of a Miss Dunstable?"

CHAPTER IX

Sir Roger Scatcherd

Enough has been said in this narrative to explain to the reader that Roger Scatcherd, who was
whilom a drunken stone-mason in Barchester, and who had been so prompt to avenge the injury
done to his sister, had become a great man in the world. He had become a contractor, first
for little things, such as half a mile or so of a railway embankment, or three or four canal
bridges, and then a contractor for great things, such as Government hospitals, locks, docks,
and quays, and had latterly had in his hands the making of whole lines of railway.

He had been occasionally in partnership with one man for one thing, and then with another for
another; but had, on the whole, kept his interests to himself, and now at the time of our story,
he was a very rich man.

And he had acquired more than wealth. There had been a time when the Government wanted the
immediate performance of some extraordinary piece of work, and Roger Scatcherd had been the
man to do it. There had been some extremely necessary bit of a railway to be made in half the
time that such work would properly demand, some speculation to be incurred requiring great
means and courage as well, and Roger Scatcherd had been found to be the man for the time. He
was then elevated for the moment to the dizzy pinnacle of a newspaper hero, and became one
of those "whom the king delighteth to honour." He went up one day to kiss Her Majesty's hand,
and come down to his new grand house at Boxall Hill, Sir Roger Scatcherd, Bart.

"And now, my lady," said he, when he explained to his wife the high state to which she had
been called by his exertions and the Queen's prerogative, "let's have a bit of dinner, and
a drop of som'at hot." Now the drop of som'at hot signified a dose of alcohol sufficient to
send three ordinary men very drunk to bed.

While conquering the world Roger Scatcherd had not conquered his old bad habits. Indeed, he
was the same man at all points that he had been when formerly seen about the streets of Barchester
with his stone-mason's apron tucked up round his waist. The apron he had abandoned, but not
the heavy prominent thoughtful brow, with the wildly flashing eye beneath it. He was still
the same good companion, and still also the same hard-working hero. In this only had he changed,
that now he would work, and some said equally well, whether he were drunk or sober. Those who
were mostly inclined to make a miracle of him--and there was a school of worshippers ready
to adore him as their idea of a divine, superhuman, miracle-moving, inspired prophet--declared
that his wondrous work was best done, his calculations most quickly and most truly made, that
he saw with most accurate eye into the far-distant balance of profit and loss, when he was
under the influence of the rosy god. To these worshippers his breakings-out, as his periods
of intemperance were called in his own set, were his moments of peculiar inspiration--his divine
frenzies, in which he communicated most closely with those deities who preside over trade transactions;
his Eleusinian mysteries, to approach him in which was permitted only to a few of the most
favoured.

"Scatcherd has been drunk this week past," they would say one to another, when the moment came
at which it was to be decided whose offer should be accepted for constructing a harbour to
hold all the commerce of Lancashire, or to make a railway from Bombay to Canton. "Scatcherd
has been drunk this week past; I am told that he has taken over three gallons of brandy." And
then they felt sure that none but Scatcherd would be called upon to construct the dock or make
the railway.

But be this as it may, be it true or false that Sir Roger was most efficacious when in his
cups, there can be no doubt that he could not wallow for a week in brandy, six or seven times
every year, without in a great measure injuring, and permanently injuring, the outward man.
Whatever immediate effect such symposiums might have on the inner mind--symposiums indeed they
were not; posiums I will call them, if I may be allowed; for in latter life, when he drank
heavily, he drank alone--however little for evil, or however much for good the working of his
brain might be affected, his body suffered greatly. It was not that he became feeble or emaciated,
old-looking or inactive, that his hand shook, or that his eye was watery; but that in the moments
of his intemperance his life was often not worth a day's purchase. The frame which God had
given to him was powerful beyond the power of ordinary men; powerful to act in spite of these
violent perturbations; powerful to repress and conquer the qualms and headaches and inward
sicknesses to which the votaries of Bacchus are ordinarily subject; but this power was not
without its limit. If encroached on too far, it would break and fall and come asunder, and
then the strong man would at once become a corpse.

Scatcherd had but one friend in the world. And, indeed, this friend was no friend in the ordinary
acceptance of the word. He neither ate with him nor drank with him, nor even frequently talked
with him. Their pursuits in life were wide asunder. Their tastes were all different. The society
in which each moved very seldom came together. Scatcherd had nothing in unison with this solitary
friend; but he trusted him, and he trusted no other living creature on God's earth.

He trusted this man; but even him he did not trust thoroughly; not at least as one friend should
trust another. He believed that this man would not rob him; would probably not lie to him;
would not endeavour to make money of him; would not count him up or speculate on him, and make
out a balance of profit and loss; and, therefore, he determined to use him. But he put no trust
whatever in his friend's counsel, in his modes of thought; none in his theory, and none in
his practice. He disliked his friend's counsel, and, in fact, disliked his society, for his
friend was somewhat apt to speak to him in a manner approaching to severity. Now Roger Scatcherd
had done many things in the world, and made much money; whereas his friend had done but few
things, and made no money. It was not to be endured that the practical, efficient man should
be taken to task by the man who proved himself to be neither practical nor efficient; not to
be endured, certainly, by Roger Scatcherd, who looked on men of his own class as the men of
the day, and on himself as by no means the least among them.

The friend was our friend Dr Thorne.

The doctor's first acquaintance with Scatcherd has been already explained. He was necessarily
thrown into communication with the man at the time of the trial, and Scatcherd then had not
only sufficient sense, but sufficient feeling also to know that the doctor behaved very well.
This communication had in different ways been kept up between them. Soon after the trial Scatcherd
had begun to rise, and his first savings had been entrusted to the doctor's care. This had
been the beginning of a pecuniary connexion which had never wholly ceased, and which had led
to the purchase of Boxall Hill, and to the loan of large sums of money to the squire.

In another way also there had been a close alliance between them, and one not always of a very
pleasant description. The doctor was, and long had been, Sir Roger's medical attendant, and,
in his unceasing attempts to rescue the drunkard from the fate which was so much to be dreaded,
he not unfrequently was driven into a quarrel with his patient.

One thing further must be told of Sir Roger. In politics he was as violent a Radical as ever,
and was very anxious to obtain a position in which he could bring his violence to bear. With
this view he was about to contest his native borough of Barchester, in the hope of being returned
in opposition to the de Courcy candidate; and with this object he had now come down to Boxall Hill.

Nor were his claims to sit for Barchester such as could be despised. If money were to be of
avail, he had plenty of it, and was prepared to spend it; whereas, rumour said that Mr Moffat
was equally determined to do nothing so foolish. Then again, Sir Roger had a sort of rough
eloquence, and was able to address the men of Barchester in language that would come home to
their hearts, in words that would endear him to one party while they made him offensively odious
to the other; but Mr Moffat could make neither friends nor enemies by his eloquence. The Barchester
roughs called him a dumb dog that could not bark, and sometimes sarcastically added that neither
could he bite. The de Courcy interest, however, was at his back, and he had also the advantage
of possession. Sir Roger, therefore, knew that the battle was not to be won without a struggle.

Dr Thorne got safely back from Silverbridge that evening, and found Mary waiting to give him
his tea. He had been called there to a consultation with Dr Century, that amiable old gentleman
having so far fallen away from the high Fillgrave tenets as to consent to the occasional endurance
of such degradation.

The next morning he breakfasted early, and, having mounted his strong iron-grey cob, started
for Boxall Hill. Not only had he there to negotiate the squire's further loan, but also to
exercise his medical skill. Sir Roger having been declared contractor for cutting a canal from
sea to sea, through the Isthmus of Panama, had been making a week of it; and the result was
that Lady Scatcherd had written rather peremptorily to her husband's medical friend.

The doctor consequently trotted off to Boxall Hill on his iron-grey cob. Among his other merits
was that of being a good horseman, and he did much of his work on horseback. The fact that
he occasionally took a day with the East Barsetshires, and that when he did so he thoroughly
enjoyed it, had probably not failed to add something to the strength of the squire's friendship.

"Well, my lady, how is he? Not much the matter, I hope?" said the doctor, as he shook hands
with the titled mistress of Boxall Hill in a small breakfast-parlour in the rear of the house.
The show-rooms of Boxall Hill were furnished most magnificently, but they were set apart for
company; and as the company never came--seeing that they were never invited--the grand rooms
and the grand furniture were not of much material use to Lady Scatcherd.

"Indeed then, doctor, he's just bad enough," said her ladyship, not in a very happy tone of
voice; "just bad enough. There's been some'at at the back of his head, rapping, and rapping,
and rapping; and if you don't do something, I'm thinking it will rap him too hard yet."

"Is he in bed?"

"Why, yes, he is in bed; for when he was first took he couldn't very well help hisself, so
we put him to bed. And then, he don't seem to be quite right yet about the legs, so he hasn't
got up; but he's got that Winterbones with him to write for him, and when Winterbones is there,
Scatcherd might as well be up for any good that bed'll do him."

Mr Winterbones was confidential clerk to Sir Roger. That is to say, he was a writing-machine
of which Sir Roger made use to do certain work which could not well be adjusted without some
contrivance. He was a little, withered, dissipated, broken-down man, whom gin and poverty had
nearly burnt to a cinder, and dried to an ash. Mind he had none left, nor care for earthly
things, except the smallest modicum of substantial food, and the largest allowance of liquid
sustenance. All that he had ever known he had forgotten, except how to count up figures and
to write: the results of his counting and his writing never stayed with him from one hour to
another; nay, not from one folio to another. Let him, however, be adequately screwed up with
gin, and adequately screwed down by the presence of his master, and then no amount of counting
and writing would be too much for him. This was Mr Winterbones, confidential clerk to the great
Sir Roger Scatcherd.

"We must send Winterbones away, I take it," said the doctor.

"Indeed, doctor, I wish you would. I wish you'd send him to Bath, or anywhere else out of the
way. There is Scatcherd, he takes brandy; and there is Winterbones, he takes gin; and it'd
puzzle a woman to say which is worst, master or man."

It will seem from this, that Lady Scatcherd and the doctor were on very familiar terms as regarded
her little domestic inconveniences.

"Tell Sir Roger I am here, will you?" said the doctor.

"You'll take a drop of sherry before you go up?" said the lady.

"Not a drop, thank you," said the doctor.

"Or, perhaps, a little cordial?"

"Not of drop of anything, thank you; I never do, you know."

"Just a thimbleful of this?" said the lady, producing from some recess under a sideboard a
bottle of brandy; "just a thimbleful? It's what he takes himself."

When Lady Scatcherd found that even this argument failed, she led the way to the great man's
bedroom.

"Well, doctor! well, doctor! well, doctor!" was the greeting with which our son of Galen was
saluted some time before he entered the sick-room. His approaching step was heard, and thus
the ci-devant Barchester stone-mason saluted his coming friend. The voice was loud and powerful,
but not clear and sonorous. What voice that is nurtured on brandy can ever be clear? It had
about it a peculiar huskiness, a dissipated guttural tone, which Thorne immediately recognised,
and recognised as being more marked, more guttural, and more husky than heretofore.

"So you've smelt me out, have you, and come for your fee? Ha! ha! ha! Well, I have had a sharpish
bout of it, as her ladyship there no doubt has told you. Let her alone to make the worst of
it. But, you see, you're too late, man. I've bilked the old gentleman again without troubling you."

"Anyway, I'm glad you're something better, Scatcherd."

"Something! I don't know what you call something. I never was better in my life. Ask Winterbones
there."

"Indeed, now, Scatcherd, you ain't; you're bad enough if you only knew it. And as for Winterbones,
he has no business here up in your bedroom, which stinks of gin so, it does. Don't you believe
him, doctor; he ain't well, nor yet nigh well."

Winterbones, when the above ill-natured allusion was made to the aroma coming from his libations,
might be seen to deposit surreptitiously beneath the little table at which he sat, the cup
with which he had performed them.

The doctor, in the meantime, had taken Sir Roger's hand on the pretext of feeling his pulse,
but was drawing quite as much information from the touch of the sick man's skin, and the look
of the sick man's eye.

"I think Mr Winterbones had better go back to the London office," said he. "Lady Scatcherd
will be your best clerk for some time, Sir Roger."

"Then I'll be d---- if Mr Winterbones does anything of the kind," said he; "so there's an end
of that."

"Very well," said the doctor. "A man can die but once. It is my duty to suggest measures for
putting off the ceremony as long as possible. Perhaps, however, you may wish to hasten it."

"Well, I am not very anxious about it, one way or the other," said Scatcherd. And as he spoke
there came a fierce gleam from his eye, which seemed to say--"If that's the bugbear with which
you wish to frighten me, you will find that you are mistaken."

"Now, doctor, don't let him talk that way, don't," said Lady Scatcherd, with her handkerchief
to her eyes.

"Now, my lady, do you cut it; cut at once," said Sir Roger, turning hastily round to his better-half;
and his better-half, knowing that the province of a woman is to obey, did cut it. But as she
went she gave the doctor a pull by the coat's sleeve, so that thereby his healing faculties
might be sharpened to the very utmost.

"The best woman in the world, doctor; the very best," said he, as the door closed behind the
wife of his bosom.

"I'm sure of it," said the doctor.

"Yes, till you find a better one," said Scatcherd. "Ha! ha! ha! but good or bad, there are
some things which a woman can't understand, and some things which she ought not to be let to
understand."

"It's natural she should be anxious about your health, you know."

"I don't know that," said the contractor. "She'll be very well off. All that whining won't
keep a man alive, at any rate."

There was a pause, during which the doctor continued his medical examination. To this the patient
submitted with a bad grace; but still he did submit.

"We must turn over a new leaf, Sir Roger; indeed we must."

"Bother," said Sir Roger.

"Well, Scatcherd; I must do my duty to you, whether you like it or not."

"That is to say, I am to pay you for trying to frighten me."

"No human nature can stand such shocks as these much longer."

"Winterbones," said the contractor, turning to his clerk, "go down, go down, I say; but don't
be out of the way. If you go to the public-house, by G----, you may stay there for me. When
I take a drop,--that is if I ever do, it does not stand in the way of work." So Mr Winterbones,
picking up his cup again, and concealing it in some way beneath his coat flap, retreated out
of the room, and the two friends were alone.

"Scatcherd," said the doctor, "you have been as near your God, as any man ever was who afterwards
ate and drank in this world."

"Have I, now?" said the railway hero, apparently somewhat startled.

"Indeed you have; indeed you have."

"And now I'm all right again?"

"All right! How can you be all right, when you know that your limbs refuse to carry you? All
right! why the blood is still beating round your brain with a violence that would destroy any
other brain but yours."

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Scatcherd. He was very proud of thinking himself to be differently organised
from other men. "Ha! ha! ha! Well, and what am I to do now?"

The whole of the doctor's prescription we will not give at length. To some of his ordinances
Sir Roger promised obedience; to others he objected violently, and to one or two he flatly
refused to listen. The great stumbling-block was this, that total abstinence from business
for two weeks was enjoined; and that it was impossible, so Sir Roger said, that he should abstain
for two days.

"If you work," said the doctor, "in your present state, you will certainly have recourse to
the stimulus of drink; and if you drink, most assuredly you will die."

"Stimulus! Why do you think I can't work without Dutch courage?"

"Scatcherd, I know that there is brandy in the room at this moment, and that you have been
taking it within these two hours."

"You smell that fellow's gin," said Scatcherd.

"I feel the alcohol working within your veins," said the doctor, who still had his hand on
his patient's arm.

Sir Roger turned himself roughly in the bed so as to get away from his Mentor, and then he
began to threaten in his turn.

"I'll tell you what it is, doctor; I've made up my mind, and I'll do it. I'll send for Fillgrave."

"Very well," said he of Greshamsbury, "send for Fillgrave. Your case is one in which even he
can hardly go wrong."

"You think you can hector me, and do as you like because you had me under your thumb in other
days. You're a very good fellow, Thorne, but I ain't sure that you are the best doctor in all
England."

"You may be sure I am not; you may take me for the worst if you will. But while I am here as
your medical adviser, I can only tell you the truth to the best of my thinking. Now the truth
is this, that another bout of drinking will in all probability kill you; and any recourse to
stimulus in your present condition may do so."

"I'll send for Fillgrave--"

"Well, send for Fillgrave, only do it at once. Believe me at any rate in this, that whatever
you do, you should do at once. Oblige me in this; let Lady Scatcherd take away that brandy
bottle till Dr Fillgrave comes."

"I'm d---- if I do. Do you think I can't have a bottle of brandy in my room without swigging?"

"I think you'll be less likely to swig it if you can't get at it."

Sir Roger made another angry turn in his bed as well as his half-paralysed limbs would let
him; and then, after a few moments' peace, renewed his threats with increased violence.

"Yes; I'll have Fillgrave over here. If a man be ill, really ill, he should have the best advice
he can get. I'll have Fillgrave, and I'll have that other fellow from Silverbridge to meet
him. What's his name?--Century."

The doctor turned his head away; for though the occasion was serious, he could not help smiling
at the malicious vengeance with which his friend proposed to gratify himself.

"I will; and Rerechild too. What's the expense? I suppose five or six pound apiece will do
it; eh, Thorne?"

"Oh, yes; that will be liberal I should say. But, Sir Roger, will you allow me to suggest what
you ought to do? I don't know how far you may be joking--"

"Joking!" shouted the baronet; "you tell a man he's dying and joking in the same breath. You'll
find I'm not joking."

"Well I dare say not. But if you have not full confidence in me--"

"I have no confidence in you at all."

"Then why not send to London? Expense is no object to you."

"It is an object; a great object."

"Nonsense! Send to London for Sir Omicron Pie: send for some man whom you will really trust
when you see him.

"There's not one of the lot I'd trust as soon as Fillgrave. I've known Fillgrave all my life,
and I trust him. I'll send for Fillgrave and put my case in his hands. If any one can do anything
for me, Fillgrave is the man."

"Then in God's name send for Fillgrave," said the doctor. "And now, good-bye, Scatcherd; and
as you do send for him, give him a fair chance. Do not destroy yourself by more brandy before
he comes."

"That's my affair, and his; not yours," said the patient.

"So be it; give me your hand, at any rate, before I go. I wish you well through it, and when
you are well, I'll come and see you."

"Good-bye--good-bye; and look here, Thorne, you'll be talking to Lady Scatcherd downstairs
I know; now, no nonsense. You understand me, eh? no nonsense, you know."

CHAPTER X

Sir Roger's Will

Dr Thorne left the room and went downstairs, being fully aware that he could not leave the
house without having some communication with Lady Scatcherd. He was not sooner within the passage
than he heard the sick man's bell ring violently; and then the servant, passing him on the
staircase, received orders to send a mounted messenger immediately to Barchester. Dr Fillgrave
was to be summoned to come as quickly as possible to the sick man's room, and Mr Winterbones
was to be sent up to write the note.

Sir Roger was quite right in supposing that there would be some words between the doctor and
her ladyship. How, indeed, was the doctor to get out of the house without such, let him wish
it ever so much? There were words; and these were protracted, while the doctor's cob was being
ordered round, till very many were uttered which the contractor would probably have regarded
as nonsense.

Lady Scatcherd was no fit associate for the wives of English baronets;--was no doubt by education
and manners much better fitted to sit in their servants' halls; but not on that account was
she a bad wife or a bad woman. She was painfully, fearfully, anxious for that husband of hers,
whom she honoured and worshipped, as it behoved her to do, above all other men. She was fearfully
anxious as to his life, and faithfully believed, that if any man could prolong it, it was that
old and faithful friend whom she had known to be true to her lord since their early married
troubles.

When, therefore, she found that he had been dismissed, and that a stranger was to be sent for
in his place, her heart sank low within her.

"But, doctor," she said, with her apron up to her eyes, "you ain't going to leave him, are you?"

Dr Thorne did not find it easy to explain to her ladyship that medical etiquette would not
permit him to remain in attendance on her husband after he had been dismissed and another physician
called in his place.

"Etiquette!" said she, crying. "What's etiquette to do with it when a man is a-killing hisself
with brandy?"

"Fillgrave will forbid that quite as strongly as I can do."

"Fillgrave!" said she. "Fiddlesticks! Fillgrave, indeed!"

Dr Thorne could almost have embraced her for the strong feeling of thorough confidence on the
one side, and thorough distrust on the other, which she contrived to throw into those few words.

"I'll tell you what, doctor; I won't let the messenger go. I'll bear the brunt of it. He can't
do much now he ain't up, you know. I'll stop the boy; we won't have no Fillgraves here."

This, however, was a step to which Dr Thorne would not assent. He endeavoured to explain to
the anxious wife, that after what had passed he could not tender his medical services till
they were again asked for.

"But you can slip in as a friend, you know; and then by degrees you can come round him, eh?
can't you now, doctor? And as to the payment--"

All that Dr Thorne said on the subject may easily be imagined. And in this way, and in partaking
of the lunch which was forced upon him, an hour had nearly passed between his leaving Sir Roger's
bedroom and putting his foot in the stirrup. But no sooner had the cob begun to move on the
gravel-sweep before the house, than one of the upper windows opened, and the doctor was summoned
to another conference with the sick man.

"He says you are to come back, whether or no," said Mr Winterbones, screeching out of the window,
and putting all his emphasis on the last words.

"Thorne! Thorne! Thorne!" shouted the sick man from his sick-bed, so loudly that the doctor
heard him, seated as he was on horseback out before the house.

"You're to come back, whether or no," repeated Winterbones, with more emphasis, evidently conceiving
that there was a strength of injunction in that "whether or no" which would be found quite
invincible.

Whether actuated by these magic words, or by some internal process of thought, we will not
say; but the doctor did slowly, and as though unwillingly, dismount again from his steed, and
slowly retrace his steps into the house.

"It is no use," he said to himself, "for that messenger has already gone to Barchester."

"I have sent for Dr Fillgrave," were the first words which the contractor said to him when
he again found himself by the bedside.

"Did you call me back to tell me that?" said Thorne, who now realy felt angry at the impertinent
petulance of the man before him: "you should consider, Scatcherd, that my time may be of value
to others, if not to you."

"Now don't be angry, old fellow," said Scatcherd, turning to him, and looking at him with a
countenance quite different from any that he had shown that day; a countenance in which there
was a show of manhood,--some show also of affection. "You ain't angry now because I've sent
for Fillgrave?"

"Not in the least," said the doctor very complacently. "Not in the least. Fillgrave will do
as much good as I can do you."

"And that's none at all, I suppose; eh, Thorne?"

"That depends on yourself. He will do you good if you will tell him the truth, and will then
be guided by him. Your wife, your servant, any one can be as good a doctor to you as either
he or I; as good, that is, in the main point. But you have sent for Fillgrave now; and of course
you must see him. I have much to do, and you must let me go."

Scatcherd, however, would not let him go, but held his hand fast. "Thorne," said he, "if you
like it, I'll make them put Fillgrave under the pump directly he comes here. I will indeed,
and pay all the damage myself."

This was another proposition to which the doctor could not consent; but he was utterly unable
to refrain from laughing. There was an earnest look of entreaty about Sir Roger's face as he
made the suggestion; and, joined to this, there was a gleam of comic satisfaction in his eye
which seemed to promise, that if he received the least encouragement he would put his threat
into execution. Now our doctor was not inclined to taking any steps towards subjecting his
learned brother to pump discipline; but he could not but admit to himself that the idea was
not a bad one.

"I'll have it done, I will, by heavens! if you'll only say the word," protested Sir Roger.

But the doctor did not say the word, and so the idea was passed off.

"You shouldn't be so testy with a man when he is ill," said Scatcherd, still holding the doctor's
hand, of which he had again got possession; "specially not an old friend; and specially again
when you're been a-blowing of him up."

It was not worth the doctor's while to aver that the testiness had all been on the other side,
and that he had never lost his good-humour; so he merely smiled, and asked Sir Roger if he
could do anything further for him.

"Indeed you can, doctor; and that's why I sent for you,--why I sent for you yesterday. Get
out of the room, Winterbones," he then said, gruffly, as though he were dismissing from his
chamber a dirty dog. Winterbones, not a whit offended, again hid his cup under his coat-tail
and vanished.

"Sit down, Thorne, sit down," said the contractor, speaking quite in a different manner from
any that he had yet assumed. "I know you're in a hurry, but you must give me half an hour.
I may be dead before you can give me another; who knows?"

The doctor of course declared that he hoped to have many a half-hour's chat with him for many
a year to come.

"Well, that's as may be. You must stop now, at any rate. You can make the cob pay for it, you
know."

The doctor took a chair and sat down. Thus entreated to stop, he had hardly any alternative
but to do so.

"It wasn't because I'm ill that I sent for you, or rather let her ladyship send for you. Lord
bless you, Thorne; do you think I don't know what it is that makes me like this? When I see
that poor wretch, Winterbones, killing himself with gin, do you think I don't know what's coming
to myself as well as him?

"Why do you take it then? Why do you do it? Your life is not like his. Oh, Scatcherd! Scatcherd!"
and the doctor prepared to pour out the flood of his eloquence in beseeching this singular
man to abstain from his well-known poison.

"Is that all you know of human nature, doctor? Abstain. Can you abstain from breathing, and
live like a fish does under water?"

"But Nature has not ordered you to drink, Scatcherd."

"Habit is second nature, man; and a stronger nature than the first. And why should I not drink?
What else has the world given me for all that I have done for it? What other resource have
I? What other gratification?"

"Oh, my God! Have you not unbounded wealth? Can you not do anything you wish? be anything you
choose?"

"No," and the sick man shrieked with an energy that made him audible all through the house.
"I can do nothing that I would choose to do; be nothing that I would wish to be! What can I
do? What can I be? What gratification can I have except the brandy bottle? If I go among gentlemen,
can I talk to them? If they have anything to say about a railway, they will ask me a question:
if they speak to me beyond that, I must be dumb. If I go among my workmen, can they talk to
me? No; I am their master, and a stern master. They bob their heads and shake in their shoes
when they see me. Where are my friends? Here!" said he, and he dragged a bottle from under
his very pillow. "Where are my amusements? Here!" and he brandished the bottle almost in the
doctor's face. "Where is my one resource, my one gratification, my only comfort after all my
toils. Here, doctor; here, here, here!" and, so saying, he replaced his treasure beneath his
pillow.

There was something so horrifying in this, that Dr Thorne shrank back amazed, and was for a
moment unable to speak.

"But, Scatcherd," he said at last; "surely you would not die for such a passion as that?"

"Die for it? Aye, would I. Live for it while I can live; and die for it when I can live no
longer. Die for it! What is that for a man to do? Do not men die for a shilling a day? What
is a man the worse for dying? What can I be the worse for dying? A man can die but once, you
said just now. I'd die ten times for this."

"You are speaking now either in madness, or else in folly, to startle me."

"Folly enough, perhaps, and madness enough, also. Such a life as mine makes a man a fool, and
makes him mad too. What have I about me that I should be afraid to die? I'm worth three hundred
thousand pounds; and I'd give it all to be able to go to work to-morrow with a hod and mortar,
and have a fellow clap his hand upon my shoulder, and say: 'Well, Roger, shall us have that
'ere other half-pint this morning?' I'll tell you what, Thorne, when a man has made three hundred
thousand pounds, there's nothing left for him but to die. It's all he's good for then. When
money's been made, the next thing is to spend it. Now the man who makes it has not the heart
to do that."

The doctor, of course, in hearing all this, said something of a tendency to comfort and console
the mind of his patient. Not that anything he could say would comfort or console the man; but
that it was impossible to sit there and hear such fearful truths--for as regarded Scatcherd
they were truths--without making some answer.

"This is as good as a play, isn't, doctor?" said the baronet. "You didn't know how I could
come out like one of those actor fellows. Well, now, come; at last I'll tell you why I have
sent for you. Before that last burst of mine I made my will."

"You had a will made before that."

"Yes, I had. That will is destroyed. I burnt it with my own hand, so that there should be no
mistake about it. In that will I had named two executors, you and Jackson. I was then partner
with Jackson in the York and Yeovil Grand Central. I thought a deal of Jackson then. He's not
worth a shilling now."

"Well, I'm exactly in the same category."

"No, you're not. Jackson is nothing without money; but money'll never make you."

"No, nor I shan't make money," said the doctor.

"No, you never will. Nevertheless, there's my other will, there, under that desk there; and
I've put you in as sole executor."

"You must alter that, Scatcherd; you must indeed; with three hundred thousand pounds to be
disposed of, the trust is far too much for any one man: besides you must name a younger man;
you and I are of the same age, and I may die the first."

"Now, doctor, doctor, no humbug; let's have no humbug from you. Remember this; if you're not
true, you're nothing."

"Well, but, Scatcherd--"

"Well, but doctor, there's the will, it's already made. I don't want to consult you about that.
You are named as executor, and if you have the heart to refuse to act when I'm dead, why, of
course, you can do so."

The doctor was no lawyer, and hardly knew whether he had any means of extricating himself from
this position in which his friend was determined to place him.

"You'll have to see that will carried out, Thorne. Now I'll tell you what I have done."

"You're not going to tell me how you have disposed of your property?"

"Not exactly; at least not all of it. One hundred thousand I've left in legacies, including,
you know, what Lady Scatcherd will have."

"Have you not left the house to Lady Scatcherd?"

"No; what the devil would she do with a house like this? She doesn't know how to live in it
now she has got it. I have provided for her; it matters not how. The house and the estate,
and the remainder of my money, I have left to Louis Philippe."

"What! two hundred thousand pounds?" said the doctor.

"And why shouldn't I leave two hundred thousand pounds to my son, even to my eldest son if
I had more than one? Does not Mr Gresham leave all his property to his heir? Why should not
I make an eldest son as well as Lord de Courcy or the Duke of Omnium? I suppose a railway contractor
ought not to be allowed an eldest son by Act of Parliament! Won't my son have a title to keep
up? And that's more than the Greshams have among them."

The doctor explained away what he said as well as he could. He could not explain that what
he had really meant was this, that Sir Roger Scatcherd's son was not a man fit to be trusted
with the entire control of an enormous fortune.

Sir Roger Scatcherd had but one child; that child which had been born in the days of his early
troubles, and had been dismissed from his mother's breast in order that the mother's milk might
nourish the young heir of Greshamsbury. The boy had grown up, but had become strong neither
in mind nor body. His father had determined to make a gentleman of him, and had sent to Eton
and to Cambridge. But even this receipt, generally as it is recognised, will not make a gentleman.
It is hard, indeed, to define what receipt will do so, though people do have in their own minds
some certain undefined, but yet tolerably correct ideas on the subject. Be that as it may,
two years at Eton, and three terms at Cambridge, did not make a gentleman of Louis Philippe
Scatcherd.

Yes; he was christened Louis Philippe, after the King of the French. If one wishes to look
out in the world for royal nomenclature, to find children who have been christened after kings
and queens, or the uncles and aunts of kings and queens, the search should be made in the families
of democrats. None have so servile a deference for the very nail-parings of royalty; none feel
so wondering an awe at the exaltation of a crowned head; none are so anxious to secure themselves
some shred or fragment that has been consecrated by the royal touch. It is the distance which
they feel to exist between themselves and the throne which makes them covet the crumbs of majesty,
the odds and ends and chance splinters of royalty.

There was nothing royal about Louis Philippe Scatcherd but his name. He had now come to man's
estate, and his father, finding the Cambridge receipt to be inefficacious, had sent him abroad
to travel with a tutor. The doctor had from time to time heard tidings of this youth; he knew
that he had already shown symptoms of his father's vices, but no symptoms of his father's talents;
he knew that he had begun life by being dissipated, without being generous; and that at the
age of twenty-one he had already suffered from delirium tremens.

It was on this account that he had expressed disapprobation, rather than surprise, when he
heard that his father intended to bequeath the bulk of his large fortune to the uncontrolled
will of this unfortunate boy.

"I have toiled for my money hard, and I have a right to do as I like with it. What other satisfaction
can it give me?"

The doctor assured him that he did not at all mean to dispute this.

"Louis Philippe will do well enough, you'll find," continued the baronet, understanding what
was passing within his companion's breast. "Let a young fellow sow his wild oats while he is
young, and he'll be steady enough when he grows old."

"But what if he never lives to get through the sowing?" thought the doctor to himself. "What
if the wild-oats operation is carried on in so violent a manner as to leave no strength in
the soil for the product of a more valuable crop?" It was of no use saying this, however, so
he allowed Scatcherd to continue.

"If I'd had a free fling when I was a youngster, I shouldn't have been so fond of the brandy
bottle now. But any way, my son shall be my heir. I've had the gumption to make the money,
but I haven't the gumption to spend it. My son, however, shall be able to ruffle it with the
best of them. I'll go bail he shall hold his head higher than ever young Gresham will be able
to hold his. They are much of the same age, as well I have cause to remember;--and so has her
ladyship there."

Now the fact was, that Sir Roger Scatcherd felt in his heart no special love for young Gresham;
but with her ladyship it might almost be a question whether she did not love the youth whom
she had nursed almost as well as that other one who was her own proper offspring.

"And will you not put any check on thoughtless expenditure? If you live ten or twenty years,
as we hope you may, it will become unnecessary; but in making a will, a man should always remember
he may go off suddenly."

"Especially if he goes to bed with a brandy bottle under his head; eh, doctor? But, mind, that's
a medical secret, you know; not a word of that out of the bedroom."

Dr Thorne could but sigh. What could he say on such a subject to such a man as this?

"Yes, I have put a check on his expenditure. I will not let his daily bread depend on any man;
I have therefore left him five hundred a year at his own disposal, from the day of my death.
Let him make what ducks and drakes of that he can."

"Five hundred a year certainly is not much," said the doctor.

"No; nor do I want to keep him to that. Let him have whatever he wants if he sets about spending
it properly. But the bulk of the property--this estate of Boxall Hill, and the Greshamsbury
mortgage, and those other mortgages--I have tied up in this way: they shall be all his at twenty-five;
and up to that age it shall be in your power to give him what he wants. If he shall die without
children before he shall be twenty-five years of age, they are all to go to Mary's eldest child."

Now Mary was Sir Roger's sister, the mother, therefore, of Miss Thorne, and, consequently,
the wife of the respectable ironmonger who went to America, and the mother of a family there.

"Mary's eldest child!" said the doctor, feeling that the perspiration had nearly broken out
on his forehead, and that he could hardly control his feelings. "Mary's eldest child! Scatcherd,
you should be more particular in your description, or you will leave your best legacy to the
lawyers."

"I don't know, and never heard the name of one of them."

"But do you mean a boy or a girl?"

"They may be all girls for what I know, or all boys; besides, I don't care which it is. A girl
would probably do best with it. Only you'd have to see that she married some decent fellow;
you'd be her guardian."

"Pooh, nonsense," said the doctor. "Louis will be five-and-twenty in a year or two."

"In about four years."

"And for all that's come and gone yet, Scatcherd, you are not going to leave us yourself quite
so soon as all that."

"Not if I can help it, doctor; but that's as may be."

"The chances are ten to one that such a clause in your will will never come to bear."

"Quite so, quite so. If I die, Louis Philippe won't; but I thought it right to put in something
to prevent his squandering it all before he comes to his senses."

"Oh! quite right, quite right. I think I would have named a later age than twenty-five."

"So would not I. Louis Philippe will be all right by that time. That's my lookout. And now,
doctor, you know my will; and if I die to-morrow, you will know what I want you to do for me."

"You have merely said the eldest child, Scatcherd?"

"That's all; give it here, and I'll read it to you."

"No, no; never mind. The eldest child! You should be more particular, Scatcherd; you should,
indeed. Consider what an enormous interest may have to depend on those words."

"Why, what the devil could I say? I don't know their names; never even heard them. But the
eldest is the eldest, all the world over. Perhaps I ought to say the youngest, seeing that
I am only a railway contractor."

Scatcherd began to think that the doctor might now as well go away and leave him to the society
of Winterbones and the brandy; but, much as our friend had before expressed himself in a hurry,
he now seemed inclined to move very leisurely. He sat there by the bedside, resting his hands
on his knees and gazing unconsciously at the counterpane. At last he gave a deep sigh, and
then he said, "Scatcherd, you must be more particular in this. If I am to have anything to
do with it, you must, indeed, be more explicit."

"Why, how the deuce can I be more explicit? Isn't her eldest living child plain enough, whether
he be Jack, or she be Gill?"

"What did your lawyer say to this, Scatcherd?"

"Lawyer! You don't suppose I let my lawyer know what I was putting. No; I got the form and
the paper, and all that from him, and had him here, in one room, while Winterbones and I did
it in another. It's all right enough. Though Winterbones wrote it, he did it in such a way
he did not know what he was writing."

The doctor sat a while longer, still looking at the counterpane, and then got up to depart.
"I'll see you again soon," said he; "to-morrow, probably."

"To-morrow!" said Sir Roger, not at all understanding why Dr Thorne should talk of returning
so soon. "To-morrow! why I ain't so bad as that, man, am I? If you come so often as that you'll
ruin me."

"Oh, not as a medical man; not as that; but about this will, Scatcherd. I must think if over;
I must, indeed."

"You need not give yourself the least trouble in the world about my will till I'm dead; not
the least. And who knows--maybe, I may be settling your affairs yet; eh, doctor? looking after
your niece when you're dead and gone, and getting a husband for her, eh? Ha! ha! ha!"

And then, without further speech, the doctor went his way.

CHAPTER XI

The Doctor Drinks His Tea

The doctor got on his cob and went his way, returning duly to Greshamsbury. But, in truth,
as he went he hardly knew whither he was going, or what he was doing. Sir Roger had hinted
that the cob would be compelled to make up for lost time by extra exertion on the road; but
the cob had never been permitted to have his own way as to pace more satisfactorily than on
the present occasion. The doctor, indeed, hardly knew that he was on horseback, so completely
was he enveloped in the cloud of his own thoughts.

In the first place, that alternative which it had become him to put before the baronet as one
unlikely to occur--that of the speedy death of both father and son--was one which he felt in
his heart of hearts might very probably come to pass.

"The chances are ten to one that such a clause will never be brought to bear." This he had
said partly to himself, so as to ease the thoughts which came crowding on his brain; partly,
also, in pity for the patient and the father. But now that he thought the matter over, he felt
that there were no such odds. Were not the odds the other way? Was it not almost probable that
both these men might be gathered to their long account within the next four years? One, the
elder, was a strong man, indeed; one who might yet live for years to come if he would but give
himself fair play. But then, he himself protested, and protested with a truth too surely grounded,
that fair play to himself was beyond his own power to give. The other, the younger, had everything
against him. Not only was he a poor, puny creature, without physical strength, one of whose
life a friend could never feel sure under any circumstances, but he also was already addicted
to his father's vices; he also was already killing himself with alcohol.

And then, if these two men did die within the prescribed period, if this clause in Sir Roger's
will were brought to bear, if it should become his, Dr Thorne's, duty to see that clause carried
out, how would he be bound to act? That woman's eldest child was his own niece, his adopted
bairn, his darling, the pride of his heart, the cynosure of his eye, his child also, his own
Mary. Of all his duties on this earth, next to that one great duty to his God and conscience,
was his duty to her. What, under these circumstances, did his duty to her require of him?

But then, that one great duty, that duty which she would be the first to expect from him; what
did that demand of him? Had Scatcherd made his will without saying what its clauses were, it
seemed to Thorne that Mary must have been the heiress, should that clause become necessarily
operative. Whether she were so or not would at any rate be for lawyers to decide. But now the
case was very different. This rich man had confided in him, and would it not be a breach of
confidence, an act of absolute dishonesty--an act of dishonesty both to Scatcherd and to that
far-distant American family, to that father, who, in former days, had behaved so nobly, and
to that eldest child of his, would it not be gross dishonesty to them all if he allowed this
man to leave a will by which his property might go to a person never intended to be his heir?

Long before he had arrived at Greshamsbury his mind on this point had been made up. Indeed,
it had been made up while sitting there by Scatcherd's bedside. It had not been difficult to
make up his mind to so much; but then, his way out of this dishonesty was not so easy for him
to find. How should he set this matter right so as to inflict no injury on his niece, and no
sorrow to himself--if that indeed could be avoided?

And then other thoughts crowded on his brain. He had always professed--professed at any rate
to himself and to her--that of all the vile objects of a man's ambition, wealth, wealth merely
for its own sake, was the vilest. They, in their joint school of inherent philosophy, had progressed
to ideas which they might find it not easy to carry out, should they be called on by events
to do so. And if this would have been difficult to either when acting on behalf of self alone,
how much more difficult when one might have to act for the other! This difficulty had now come
to the uncle. Should he, in this emergency, take upon himself to fling away the golden chance
which might accrue to his niece if Scatcherd should be encouraged to make her partly his heir?

"He'd want her to go and live there--to live with him and his wife. All the money in the Bank
of England would not pay her for such misery," said the doctor to himself, as he slowly rode
into is own yard.

On one point, and one only, had he definitely made up his mind. On the following day he would
go over again to Boxall Hill, and would tell Scatcherd the whole truth. Come what might, the
truth must be the best. And so, with some gleam of comfort, he went into the house, and found
his niece in the drawing-room with Patience Oriel.

"Mary and I have been quarrelling," said Patience. "She says the doctor is the greatest man
in a village; and I say the parson is, of course."

"I only say that the doctor is the most looked after," said Mary. "There's another horrid message
for you to go to Silverbridge, uncle. Why can't that Dr Century manage his own people?"

"She says," continued Miss Oriel, "that if a parson was away for a month, no one would miss
him; but that a doctor is so precious that his very minutes are counted."

"I am sure uncle's are. They begrudge him his meals. Mr Oriel never gets called away to Silverbridge."

"No; we in the Church manage our parish arrangements better than you do. We don't let strange
practitioners in among our flocks because the sheep may chance to fancy them. Our sheep have
to put up with our spiritual doses whether they like them or not. In that respect we are much
the best off. I advise you, Mary, to marry a clergyman, by all means."

"I will when you marry a doctor," said she.

"I am sure nothing on earth would give me greater pleasure," said Miss Oriel, getting up and
curtseying very low to Dr Thorne; "but I am not quite prepared for the agitation of an offer
this morning, so I'll run away."

And so she went; and the doctor, getting on his other horse, started again for Silverbridge,
wearily enough. "She's happy now where she is," said he to himself, as he rode along. "They
all treat her there as an equal at Greshamsbury. What though she be no cousin to the Thornes
of Ullathorne. She has found her place there among them all, and keeps it on equal terms with
the best of them. There is Miss Oriel; her family is high; she is rich, fashionable, a beauty,
courted by every one; but yet she does not look down on Mary. They are equal friends together.
But how would it be if she were taken to Boxall Hill, even as a recognised niece of the rich
man there? Would Patience Oriel and Beatrice Gresham go there after her? Could she be happy
there as she is in my house here, poor though it be? It would kill her to pass a month with
Lady Scatcherd and put up with that man's humours, to see his mode of life, to be dependent
on him, to belong to him." And then the doctor, hurrying on to Silverbridge, again met Dr Century
at the old lady's bedside, and having made his endeavours to stave off the inexorable coming
of the grim visitor, again returned to his own niece and his own drawing-room.

"You must be dead, uncle," said Mary, as she poured out his tea for him, and prepared the comforts
of that most comfortable meal--tea, dinner, and supper, all in one. "I wish Silverbridge was
fifty miles off."

"That would only make the journey worse; but I am not dead yet, and, what is more to the purpose,
neither is my patient." And as he spoke he contrived to swallow a jorum of scalding tea, containing
in measure somewhat near a pint. Mary, not a whit amazed at this feat, merely refilled the
jorum without any observation; and the doctor went on stirring the mixture with his spoon,
evidently oblivious that any ceremony had been performed by either of them since the first
supply had been administered to him.

When the clatter of knives and forks was over, the doctor turned himself to the hearthrug,
and putting one leg over the other, he began to nurse it as he looked with complacency at his
third cup of tea, which stood untasted beside him. The fragments of the solid banquet had been
removed, but no sacrilegious hand had been laid on the teapot and the cream-jug.

"Mary," said he, "suppose you were to find out to-morrow morning that, by some accident, you
had become a great heiress, would you be able to suppress your exultation?"

"The first thing I'd do, would be to pronounce a positive edict that you should never go to
Silverbridge again; at least without a day's notice."

"Well, and what next? what would you do next?"

"The next thing--the next thing would be to send to Paris for a French bonnet exactly like
the one Patience Oriel had on. Did you see it?"

"Well I can't say I did; bonnets are invisible now; besides I never remark anybody's clothes,
except yours."

"Oh! do look at Miss Oriel's bonnet the next time you see her. I cannot understand why it should
be so, but I am sure of this--no English fingers could put together such a bonnet as that;
and I am nearly sure that no French fingers could do it in England."

"But you don't care so much about bonnets, Mary!" This the doctor said as an assertion; but
there was, nevertheless, somewhat of a question involved in it.

"Don't I, though?" said she. "I do care very much about bonnets; especially since I saw Patience
this morning. I asked how much it cost--guess."

"Oh! I don't know--a pound?"

"A pound, uncle!"

"What! a great deal more? Ten pounds?"

"Oh, uncle."

"What! more than ten pounds? Then I don't think even Patience Oriel ought to give it."

"No, of course she would not; but, uncle, it really cost a hundred francs!"

"Oh! a hundred francs; that's four pounds, isn't it? Well, and how much did your last new bonnet
cost?"

"Mine! oh, nothing--five and ninepence, perhaps; I trimmed it myself. If I were left a great
fortune, I'd send to Paris to-morrow; no, I'd go myself to Paris to buy a bonnet, and I'd take
you with me to choose it."

The doctor sat silent for a while meditating about this, during which he unconsciously absorbed
the tea beside him; and Mary again replenished his cup.

"Come, Mary," said he at last, "I'm in a generous mood; and as I am rather more rich than usual,
we'll send to Paris for a French bonnet. The going for it must wait a while longer I am afraid."

"You're joking."

"No, indeed. If you know the way to send--that I must confess would puzzle me; but if you'll
manage the sending, I'll manage the paying; and you shall have a French bonnet."

"Uncle!" said she, looking up at him.

"Oh, I'm not joking; I owe you a present, and I'll give you that."

"And if you do, I'll tell you what I'll do with it. I'll cut it into fragments, and burn them
before your face. Why, uncle, what do you take me for? You're not a bit nice to-night to make
such an offer as that to me; not a bit, not a bit." And then she came over from her seat at
the tea-tray and sat down on a foot-stool close at his knee. "Because I'd have a French bonnet
if I had a large fortune, is that a reason why I should like one now? if you were to pay four
pounds for a bonnet for me, it would scorch my head every time I put it on."

"I don't see that: four pounds would not ruin me. However, I don't think you'd look a bit better
if you had it; and, certainly, I should not like to scorch these locks," and putting his hand
upon her shoulders, he played with her hair.

"Patience has a pony-phaeton, and I'd have one if I were rich; and I'd have all my books bound
as she does; and, perhaps, I'd give fifty guineas for a dressing-case."

"Fifty guineas!"

"Patience did not tell me; but so Beatrice says. Patience showed it to me once, and it is a
darling. I think I'd have the dressing-case before the bonnet. But, uncle--"

"Well?"

"You don't suppose I want such things?"

"Not improperly. I am sure you do not."

"Not properly, or improperly; not much, or little. I covet many things; but nothing of that
sort. You know, or should know, that I do not. Why did you talk of buying a French bonnet for me?"

Dr Thorne did not answer this question, but went on nursing his leg.

"After all," said he, "money is a fine thing."

"Very fine, when it is well come by," she answered; "that is, without detriment to the heart
or soul."

"I should be a happier man if you were provided for as is Miss Oriel. Suppose, now, I could
give you up to a rich man who would be able to insure you against all wants?"

"Insure me against all wants! Oh, that would be a man. That would be selling me, wouldn't it,
uncle? Yes, selling me; and the price you would receive would be freedom from future apprehensions
as regards me. It would be a cowardly sale for you to make; and then, as to me--me the victim.
No, uncle; you must bear the misery of having to provide for me--bonnets and all. We are in
the same boat, and you shan't turn me overboard."

"But if I were to die, what would you do then?"

"And if I were to die, what would you do? People must be bound together. They must depend on
each other. Of course, misfortunes may come; but it is cowardly to be afraid of them beforehand.
You and I are bound together, uncle; and though you say these things to tease me, I know you
do not wish to get rid of me."

"Well, well; we shall win through, doubtless; if not in one way, then in another."

"Win through! Of course we shall; who doubts our winning? but, uncle--"

"But, Mary."

"Well?"

"You haven't got another cup of tea, have you?"

"Oh, uncle! you have had five."

"No, my dear! not five; only four--only four, I assure you; I have been very particular to
count. I had one while I was--"

"Five uncle; indeed and indeed."

"Well, then, as I hate the prejudice which attaches luck to an odd number, I'll have a sixth
to show that I am not superstitious."

While Mary was preparing the sixth jorum, there came a knock at the door. Those late summonses
were hateful to Mary's ear, for they were usually the forerunners of a midnight ride through
the dark lanes to some farmer's house. The doctor had been in the saddle all day, and, as Janet
brought the note into the room, Mary stood up as though to defend her uncle from any further
invasion on his rest.

"A note from the house, miss," said Janet: now "the house," in Greshamsbury parlance, always
meant the squire's mansion.

"No one ill at the house, I hope," said the doctor, taking the note from Mary's hand. "Oh--ah--yes;
it's from the squire--there's nobody ill: wait a minute, Janet, and I'll write a line. Mary,
lend me your desk."

The squire, anxious as usual for money, had written to ask what success the doctor had had
in negotiating the new loan with Sir Roger. The fact, however, was, that in his visit at Boxall
Hill, the doctor had been altogether unable to bring on the carpet the matter of this loan.
Subjects had crowded themselves in too quickly during that interview--those two interviews
at Sir Roger's bedside; and he had been obliged to leave without even alluding to the question.

"I must at any rate go back now," said he to himself. So he wrote to the squire, saying that
he was to be at Boxall Hill again on the following day, and that he would call at the house
on his return.

"That's settled, at any rate," said he.

"What's settled?" said Mary.

"Why, I must go to Boxall Hill again to-morrow. I must go early, too, so we'd better both be
off to bed. Tell Janet I must breakfast at half-past seven."

"You couldn't take me, could you? I should so like to see that Sir Roger."

"To see Sir Roger! Why, he's ill in bed."

"That's an objection, certainly; but some day, when he's well, could not you take me over?
I have the greatest desire to see a man like that; a man who began with nothing and now has
more than enough to buy the whole parish of Greshamsbury."

"I don't think you'd like him at all."

"Why not? I am sure I should; I am sure I should like him, and Lady Scatcherd, too. I've heard
you say that she is an excellent woman."

"Yes, in her way; and he, too, is good in his way; but they are neither of them in your way:
they are extremely vulgar--"

"Oh! I don't mind that; that would make them more amusing; one doesn't go to those sort of
people for polished manners."

"I don't think you'd find the Scatcherds pleasant acquaintances at all," said the doctor, taking
his bed-candle, and kissing his niece's forehead as he left the room.

CHAPTER XII

When Greek Meets Greek, Then Comes the Tug of War

The doctor, that is our doctor, had thought nothing more of the message which had been sent
to that other doctor, Dr Fillgrave; nor in truth did the baronet. Lady Scatcherd had thought
of it, but her husband during the rest of the day was not in a humour which allowed her to
remind him that he would soon have a new physician on his hands; so she left the difficulty
to arrange itself, waiting in some little trepidation till Dr Fillgrave should show himself.

It was well that Sir Roger was not dying for want of his assistance, for when the message reached
Barchester, Dr Fillgrave was some five or six miles out of town, at Plumstead; and as he did
not get back till late in the evening, he felt himself necessitated to put off his visit to
Boxall Hill till next morning. Had he chanced to have been made acquainted with that little
conversation about the pump, he would probably have postponed it even yet a while longer.

He was, however, by no means sorry to be summoned to the bedside of Sir Roger Scatcherd. It
was well known at Barchester, and very well known to Dr Fillgrave, that Sir Roger and Dr Thorne
were old friends. It was very well known to him also, that Sir Roger, in all his bodily ailments,
had hitherto been contented to entrust his safety to the skill of his old friend. Sir Roger
was in his way a great man, and much talked of in Barchester, and rumour had already reached
the ears of the Barchester Galen, that the great railway contractor was ill. When, therefore,
he received a peremptory summons to go over to Boxall Hill, he could not but think that some
pure light had broken in upon Sir Roger's darkness, and taught him at last where to look for
true medical accomplishment.

And then, also, Sir Roger was the richest man in the county, and to county practitioners a
new patient with large means is a godsend; how much greater a godsend when he be not only acquired,
but taken also from some rival practitioner, need hardly be explained.

Dr Fillgrave, therefore, was somewhat elated when, after a very early breakfast, he stepped
into the post-chaise which was to carry him to Boxall Hill. Dr Fillgrave's professional advancement
had been sufficient to justify the establishment of a brougham, in which he paid his ordinary
visits round Barchester; but this was a special occasion, requiring special speed, and about
to produce no doubt a special guerdon, and therefore a pair of post-horses were put into request.

It was hardly yet nine when the post-boy somewhat loudly rang the bell at Sir Roger's door;
and then Dr Fillgrave, for the first time, found himself in the new grand hall of Boxall Hill
house.

"I'll tell my lady," said the servant, showing him into the grand dining-room; and there for
some fifteen minutes or twenty minutes Dr Fillgrave walked up and down the length of the Turkey
carpet all alone.

Dr Fillgrave was not a tall man, and was perhaps rather more inclined to corpulence than became
his height. In his stocking-feet, according to the usually received style of measurement, he
was five feet five; and he had a little round abdominal protuberance, which an inch and a half
added to the heels of his boots hardly enabled him to carry off as well as he himself would
have wished. Of this he was apparently conscious, and it gave to him an air of not being entirely
at his ease. There was, however, a personal dignity in his demeanour, a propriety in his gait,
and an air of authority in his gestures which should prohibit one from stigmatizing those efforts
at altitude as a failure. No doubt he did achieve much; but, nevertheless, the effort would
occasionally betray itself, and the story of the frog and the ox would irresistibly force itself
into one's mind at those moments when it most behoved Dr Fillgrave to be magnificent.

But if the bulgy roundness of his person and the shortness of his legs in any way detracted
from his personal importance, these trifling defects were, he was well aware, more than atoned
for by the peculiar dignity of his countenance. If his legs were short, his face was not; if
there was any undue preponderance below the waistcoat, all was in due symmetry above the necktie.
His hair was grey, not grizzled nor white, but properly grey; and stood up straight from off
his temples on each side with an unbending determination of purpose. His whiskers, which were
of an admirable shape, coming down and turning gracefully at the angle of his jaw, were grey
also, but somewhat darker than his hair. His enemies in Barchester declared that their perfect
shade was produced by a leaden comb. His eyes were not brilliant, but were very effective,
and well under command. He was rather short-sighted, and a pair of eye-glasses was always on
his nose, or in his hand. His nose was long, and well pronounced, and his chin, also, was sufficiently
prominent; but the great feature of his face was his mouth. The amount of secret medical knowledge
of which he could give assurance by the pressure of those lips was truly wonderful. By his
lips, also, he could be most exquisitely courteous, or most sternly forbidding. And not only
could he be either the one or the other; but he could at his will assume any shade of difference
between the two, and produce any mixture of sentiment.

When Dr Fillgrave was first shown into Sir Roger's dining-room, he walked up and down the room
for a while with easy, jaunty step, with his hands joined together behind his back, calculating
the price of the furniture, and counting the heads which might be adequately entertained in
a room of such noble proportions; but in seven or eight minutes an air of impatience might
have been seen to suffuse his face. Why could he not be shown into the sick man's room? What
necessity could there be for keeping him there, as though he were some apothecary with a box
of leeches in his pocket? He then rang the bell, perhaps a little violently. "Does Sir Roger
know that I am here?" he said to the servant. "I'll tell my lady," said the man, again vanishing.

For five minutes more he walked up and down, calculating no longer the value of the furniture,
but rather that of his own importance. He was not wont to be kept waiting in this way; and
though Sir Roger Scatcherd was at present a great and rich man, Dr Fillgrave had remembered
him a very small and a very poor man. He now began to think of Sir Roger as the stone-mason,
and to chafe somewhat more violently at being so kept by such a man.

When one is impatient, five minutes is as the duration of all time, and a quarter of an hour
is eternity. At the end of twenty minutes the step of Dr Fillgrave up and down the room had
become very quick, and he had just made up his mind that he would not stay there all day to
the serious detriment, perhaps fatal injury, of his other expectant patients. His hand was
again on the bell, and was about to be used with vigour, when the door opened and Lady Scatcherd
entered.

The door opened and Lady Scatcherd entered; but she did so very slowly, as though she were
afraid to come into her own dining-room. We must go back a little and see how she had been
employed during those twenty minutes.

"Oh, laws!" Such had been her first exclamation on hearing that the doctor was in the dining-room.
She was standing at the time with her housekeeper in a small room in which she kept her linen
and jam, and in which, in company with the same housekeeper, she spent the happiest moments
of her life.

"Oh laws! now, Hannah, what shall we do?"

"Send 'un up at once to master, my lady! let John take 'un up."

"There'll be such a row in the house, Hannah; I know there will."

"But sure-ly didn't he send for 'un? Let the master have the row himself, then; that's what
I'd do, my lady," added Hannah, seeing that her ladyship still stood trembling in doubt, biting
her thumb-nail.

"You couldn't go up to the master yourself, could you now, Hannah?" said Lady Scatcherd in
her most persuasive tone.

"Why no," said Hannah, after a little deliberation; "no, I'm afeard I couldn't."

"Then I must just face it myself." And up went the wife to tell her lord that the physician
for whom he had sent had come to attend his bidding.

In the interview which then took place the baronet had not indeed been violent, but he had
been very determined. Nothing on earth, he said, should induce him to see Dr Fillgrave and
offend his dear old friend Dr Thorne.

"But Roger," said her ladyship, half crying, or rather pretending to cry in her vexation, "what
shall I do with the man? How shall I get him out of the house?"

"Put him under the pump," said the baronet; and he laughed his peculiar low guttural laugh,
which told so plainly of the havoc which brandy had made in his throat.

"That's nonsense, Roger; you know I can't put him under the pump. Now you are ill, and you'd
better see him just for five minutes. I'll make it all right with Dr Thorne."

"I'll be d---- if I do, my lady." All the people about Boxall Hill called poor Lady Scatcherd
"my lady" as if there was some excellent joke in it; and, so, indeed, there was.

"You know you needn't mind nothing he says, nor yet take nothing he sends: and I'll tell him
not to come no more. Now do 'ee see him, Roger."

But there was no coaxing Roger over now, or indeed ever: he was a wilful, headstrong, masterful
man; a tyrant always though never a cruel one; and accustomed to rule his wife and household
as despotically as he did his gangs of workmen. Such men it is not easy to coax over.

"You go down and tell him I don't want him, and won't see him, and that's an end of it. If
he chose to earn his money, why didn't he come yesterday when he was sent for? I'm well now,
and don't want him; and what's more, I won't have him. Winterbones, lock the door."

So Winterbones, who during this interview had been at work at his little table, got up to lock
the door, and Lady Scatcherd had no alternative but to pass through it before the last edict
was obeyed.

Lady Scatcherd, with slow step, went downstairs and again sought counsel with Hannah, and the
two, putting their heads together, agreed that the only cure for the present evil was to found
in a good fee. So Lady Scatcherd, with a five-pound note in her hand, and trembling in every
limb, went forth to encounter the august presence of Dr Fillgrave.

As the door opened, Dr Fillgrave dropped the bell-rope which was in his hand, and bowed low
to the lady. Those who knew the doctor well, would have known from his bow that he was not
well pleased; it was as much as though he said, "Lady Scatcherd, I am your most obedient humble
servant; at any rate it appears that it is your pleasure to treat me as such."

Lady Scatcherd did not understand all this; but she perceived at once that the man was angry.

"I hope Sir Roger does not find himself worse," said the doctor. "The morning is getting on;
shall I step up and see him?"

"Hem! ha! oh! Why, you see, Dr Fillgrave, Sir Roger finds hisself vastly better this morning,
vastly so."

"I'm very glad to hear it; but as the morning is getting on, shall I step up to see Sir Roger?"

"Why, Dr Fillgrave, sir, you see, he finds hisself so much hisself this morning, that he a'most
thinks it would be a shame to trouble you."

"A shame to trouble me!" This was the sort of shame which Dr Fillgrave did not at all comprehend.
"A shame to trouble me! Why Lady Scatcherd--"

Lady Scatcherd saw that she had nothing for it but to make the whole matter intelligible. Moreover,
seeing that she appreciated more thoroughly the smallness of Dr Fillgrave's person than she
did the peculiar greatness of his demeanour, she began to be a shade less afraid of him than
she had thought she should have been.

"Yes, Dr Fillgrave; you see, when a man like he gets well, he can't abide the idea of doctors:
now, yesterday, he was all for sending for you; but to-day he comes to hisself, and don't seem
to want no doctor at all."

Then did Dr Fillgrave seem to grow out of his boots, so suddenly did he take upon himself sundry
modes of expansive attitude;--to grow out of his boots and to swell upwards, till his angry
eyes almost looked down on Lady Scatcherd, and each erect hair bristled up towards the heavens.

"This is very singular, very singular, Lady Scatcherd; very singular, indeed; very singular;
quite unusual. I have come here from Barchester, at some considerable inconvenience, at some
very considerable inconvenience, I may say, to my regular patients; and--and--and--I don't
know that anything so very singular ever occurred to me before." And then Dr Fillgrave, with
a compression of his lips which almost made the poor woman sink into the ground, moved towards
the door.

Then Lady Scatcherd bethought her of her great panacea. "It isn't about the money, you know,
doctor," said she; "of course Sir Roger don't expect you to come here with post-horses for
nothing." In this, by the by, Lady Scatcherd did not stick quite close to veracity, for Sir
Roger, had he known it, would by no means have assented to any payment; and the note which
her ladyship held in her hand was taken from her own private purse. "It ain't at all about
the money, doctor;" and then she tendered the bank-note, which she thought would immediately
make all things smooth.

Now Dr Fillgrave dearly loved a five-pound fee. What physician is so unnatural as not to love
it? He dearly loved a five-pound fee; but he loved his dignity better. He was angry also; and
like all angry men, he loved his grievance. He felt that he had been badly treated; but if
he took the money he would throw away his right to indulge in any such feeling. At that moment
his outraged dignity and his cherished anger were worth more than a five-pound note. He looked
at it with wishful but still averted eyes, and then sternly refused the tender.

"No, madam," said he; "no, no;" and with his right hand raised with his eye-glasses in it,
he motioned away the tempting paper. "No; I should have been happy to have given Sir Roger
the benefit of any medical skill I may have, seeing that I was specially called in--"

"But, doctor; if the man's well, you know--"

"Oh, of course; if he's well, and does not choose to see me, there's an end of it. Should he
have any relapse, as my time is valuable, he will perhaps oblige me by sending elsewhere. Madam,
good morning. I will, if you will allow me, ring for my carriage--that is, post-chaise."

"But, doctor, you'll take the money; you must take the money; indeed you'll take the money,"
said Lady Scatcherd, who had now become really unhappy at the idea that her husband's unpardonable
whim had brought this man with post-horses all the way from Barchester, and that he was to
be paid nothing for his time nor costs.

"No, madam, no. I could not think of it. Sir Roger, I have no doubt, will know better another
time. It is not a question of money; not at all."

"But it is a question of money, doctor; and you really shall, you must." And poor Lady Scatcherd,
in her anxiety to acquit herself at any rate of any pecuniary debt to the doctor, came to personal
close quarters with him, with the view of forcing the note into his hands.

"Quite impossible, quite impossible," said the doctor, still cherishing his grievance, and
valiantly rejecting the root of all evil. "I shall not do anything of the kind, Lady Scatcherd."

"Now doctor, do 'ee; to oblige me."

"Quite out of the question." And so, with his hands and hat behind his back, in token of his
utter refusal to accept any pecuniary accommodation of his injury, he made his way backwards
to the door, her ladyship perseveringly pressing him in front. So eager had been the attack
on him, that he had not waited to give his order about the post-chaise, but made his way at
once towards the hall.

"Now, do 'ee take it, do 'ee," pressed Lady Scatcherd.

"Utterly out of the question," said Dr Fillgrave, with great deliberation, as he backed his
way into the hall. As he did so, of course he turned round,--and he found himself almost in
the arms of Dr Thorne.

As Burley must have glared at Bothwell when they rushed together in the dread encounter on
the mountain side; as Achilles may have glared at Hector when at last they met, each resolved
to test in fatal conflict the prowess of the other, so did Dr Fillgrave glare at his foe from
Greshamsbury, when, on turning round on his exalted heel, he found his nose on a level with
the top button of Dr Thorne's waistcoat.

And here, if it be not too tedious, let us pause a while to recapitulate and add up the undoubted
grievances of the Barchester practitioner. He had made no effort to ingratiate himself into
the sheepfold of that other shepherd-dog; it was not by his seeking that he was now at Boxall
Hill; much as he hated Dr Thorne, full sure as he felt of that man's utter ignorance, of his
incapacity to administer properly even a black dose, of his murdering propensities and his
low, mean, unprofessional style of practice; nevertheless, he had done nothing to undermine
him with these Scatcherds. Dr Thorne might have sent every mother's son at Boxall Hill to his
long account, and Dr Fillgrave would not have interfered;--would not have interfered unless
specially and duly called upon to do so.

But he had been specially and duly called on. Before such a step was taken some words must
undoubtedly have passed on the subject between Thorne and the Scatcherds. Thorne must have
known what was to be done. Having been so called, Dr Fillgrave had come--had come all the way
in a post-chaise--had been refused admittance to the sick man's room, on the plea that the
sick man was no longer sick; and just as he was about to retire fee-less--for the want of the
fee was not the less a grievance from the fact of its having been tendered and refused--fee-less,
dishonoured, and in dudgeon, he encountered this other doctor--this very rival whom he had
been sent to supplant; he encountered him in the very act of going to the sick man's room.

What mad fanatic Burley, what god-succoured insolent Achilles, ever had such cause to swell
with wrath as at that moment had Dr Fillgrave? Had I the pen of Moliere, I could fitly tell
of such medical anger, but with no other pen can it be fitly told. He did swell, and when the
huge bulk of his wrath was added to his natural proportions, he loomed gigantic before the
eyes of the surrounding followers of Sir Roger.

Dr Thorne stepped back three steps and took his hat from his head, having, in the passage from
the hall-door to the dining-room, hitherto omitted to do so. It must be borne in mind that
he had no conception whatever that Sir Roger had declined to see the physician for whom he
had sent; none whatever that the physician was now about to return, fee-less, to Barchester.

Dr Thorne and Dr Fillgrave were doubtless well-known enemies. All the world of Barchester,
and all that portion of the world of London which is concerned with the lancet and the scalping-knife,
were well aware of this: they were continually writing against each other; continually speaking
against each other; but yet they had never hitherto come to that positive personal collision
which is held to justify a cut direct. They very rarely saw each other; and when they did meet,
it was in some casual way in the streets of Barchester or elsewhere, and on such occasions
their habit had been to bow with very cold propriety.

On the present occasion, Dr Thorne of course felt that Dr Fillgrave had the whip-hand of him;
and, with a sort of manly feeling on such a point, he conceived it to be most compatible with
his own dignity to show, under such circumstances, more than his usual courtesy--something,
perhaps, amounting almost to cordiality. He had been supplanted, quoad doctor, in the house
of this rich, eccentric, railway baronet, and he would show that he bore no malice on that account.

So he smiled blandly as he took off his hat, and in a civil speech he expressed a hope that
Dr Fillgrave had not found his patient to be in any very unfavourable state.

Here was an aggravation to the already lacerated feelings of the injured man. He had been brought
thither to be scoffed at and scorned at, that he might be a laughing-stock to his enemies,
and food for mirth to the vile-minded. He swelled with noble anger till he would have burst,
had it not been for the opportune padding of his frock-coat.

"Sir," said he; "sir:" and he could hardly get his lips open to give vent to the tumult of
his heart. Perhaps he was not wrong; for it may be that his lips were more eloquent than would
have been his words.

"What's the matter?" said Dr Thorne, opening his eyes wide, and addressing Lady Scatcherd over
the head and across the hairs of the irritated man below him. "What on earth is the matter?
Is anything wrong with Sir Roger?"

"Oh, laws, doctor!" said her ladyship. "Oh, laws; I'm sure it ain't my fault. Here's Dr Fillgrave
in a taking, and I'm quite ready to pay him,--quite. If a man gets paid, what more can he want?"
And she again held out the five-pound note over Dr Fillgrave's head.

What more, indeed, Lady Scatcherd, can any of us want, if only we could keep our tempers and
feelings a little in abeyance? Dr Fillgrave, however, could not so keep his; and, therefore,
he did want something more, though at the present moment he could have hardly said what.

Lady Scatcherd's courage was somewhat resuscitated by the presence of her ancient trusty ally;
and, moreover, she began to conceive that the little man before her was unreasonable beyond
all conscience in his anger, seeing that that for which he was ready to work had been offered
to him without any work at all.

"Madam," said he, again turning round at Lady Scatcherd, "I was never before treated in such
a way in any house in Barchester-- never--never."

"Good heavens, Dr Fillgrave!" said he of Greshamsbury, "what is the matter?"

"I'll let you know what is the matter, sir," said he, turning round again as quickly as before.
"I'll let you know what is the matter. I'll publish this, sir, to the medical world;" and as
he shrieked out the words of the threat, he stood on tiptoes and brandished his eye-glasses
up almost into his enemy's face.

"Don't be angry with Dr Thorne," said Lady Scatcherd. "Any ways, you needn't be angry with
him. If you must be angry with anybody--"

"I shall be angry with him, madam," ejaculated Dr Fillgrave, making another sudden demi-pirouette.
"I am angry with him--or, rather, I despise him;" and completing the circle, Dr Fillgrave again
brought himself round in full front of his foe.

Dr Thorne raised his eyebrows and looked inquiringly at Lady Scatcherd; but there was a quiet
sarcastic motion round his mouth which by no means had the effect of throwing oil on the troubled
waters.

"I'll publish the whole of this transaction to the medical world, Dr Thorne--the whole of it;
and if that has not the effect of rescuing the people of Greshamsbury out of your hands, then--then--then,
I don't know what will. Is my carriage--that is, post-chaise there?" and Dr Fillgrave, speaking
very loudly, turned majestically to one of the servants.

"What have I done to you, Dr Fillgrave," said Dr Thorne, now absolutely laughing, "that you
should determined to take my bread out of my mouth? I am not interfering with your patient.
I have come here simply with reference to money matters appertaining to Sir Roger."

"Money matters! Very well--very well; money matters. That is your idea of medical practice!
Very well--very well. Is my post-chaise at the door? I'll publish it all to the medical world--every
word--every word of it, every word of it."

"Publish what, you unreasonable man?"

"Man! sir; whom do you call a man? I'll let you know whether I'm a man--post-chaise there!"

"Don't 'ee call him names now, doctor; don't 'ee, pray don't 'ee," said Lady Scatcherd.

By this time they had all got somewhere nearer the hall-door; but the Scatcherd retainers were
too fond of the row to absent themselves willingly at Dr Fillgrave's bidding, and it did not
appear that any one went in search of the post-chaise.

"Man! sir; I'll let you know what it is to speak to me in that style. I think, sir, you hardly
know who I am."

"All that I know of you at present is, that you are my friend Sir Roger's physician, and I
cannot conceive what has occurred to make you so angry." And as he spoke, Dr Thorne looked
carefully at him to see whether that pump-discipline had in truth been applied. There were
no signs whatever that cold water had been thrown upon Dr Fillgrave.

"My post-chaise--is my post-chaise there? The medical world shall know all; you may be sure,
sir, the medical world shall know it all;" and thus, ordering his post-chaise, and threatening
Dr Thorne with the medical world, Dr Fillgrave made his way to the door.

But the moment he put on his hat he returned. "No, madam," said he. "No; it is quite out of
the question: such an affair is not to be arranged by such means. I'll publish it all to the
medical world--post-chaise there!" and then, using all his force, he flung as far as he could
into the hall a light bit of paper. It fell at Dr Thorne's feet, who, raising it, found that
it was a five-pound note.

"I put it into his hat just while he was in his tantrum," said Lady Scatcherd. "And I thought
that perhaps he would not find it till he got to Barchester. Well I wish he'd been paid, certainly,
although Sir Roger wouldn't see him;" and in this manner Dr Thorne got some glimpse of understanding
into the cause of the great offence.

"I wonder whether Sir Roger will see me," said he, laughing.

CHAPTER XIII

The Two Uncles

"Ha! ha! ha! Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Sir Roger, lustily, as Dr Thorne entered the room. "Well,
if that ain't rich, I don't know what is. Ha! ha! ha! But why did they not put him under the
pump, doctor?"

The doctor, however, had too much tact, and too many things of importance to say, to allow
of his giving up much time to the discussion of Dr Fillgrave's wrath. He had come determined
to open the baronet's eyes as to what would be the real effect of his will, and he had also
to negotiate a loan for Mr Gresham, if that might be possible. Dr Thorne therefore began about
the loan, that being the easier subject, and found that Sir Roger was quite clear-headed as
to his money concerns, in spite of his illness. Sir Roger was willing enough to lend Mr Gresham
more money--six, eight, ten, twenty thousand; but then, in doing so, he should insist on obtaining
possession of the title-deeds.

"What! the title-deeds of Greshamsbury for a few thousand pounds?" said the doctor.

"I don't know whether you call ninety thousand pounds a few thousands; but the debt will about
amount to that."

"Ah! that's the old debt."

"Old and new together, of course; every shilling I lend more weakens my security for what I
have lent before."

"But you have the first claim, Sir Roger."

"It ought to be first and last to cover such a debt as that. If he wants further accommodation,
he must part with his deeds, doctor."

The point was argued backwards and forwards for some time without avail, and the doctor then
thought it well to introduce the other subject.

"Well, Sir Roger, you're a hard man."

"No I ain't," said Sir Roger; "not a bit hard; that is, not a bit too hard. Money is always
hard. I know I found it hard to come by; and there is no reason why Squire Gresham should expect
to find me so very soft."

"Very well; there is an end of that. I thought you would have done as much to oblige me, that
is all."

"What! take bad security to oblige you?"

"Well, there's an end of that."

"I'll tell you what; I'll do as much to oblige a friend as any one. I'll lend you five thousand
pounds, you yourself, without security at all, if you want it."

"But you know I don't want it; or, at any rate, shan't take it."

"But to ask me to go on lending money to a third party, and he over head and ears in debt,
by way of obliging you, why, it's a little too much."

"Well, there's and end of it. Now I've something to say to you about that will of yours."

"Oh! that's settled."

"No, Scatcherd; it isn't settled. It must be a great deal more settled before we have done
with it, as you'll find when you hear what I have to tell you."

"What you have to tell me!" said Sir Roger, sitting up in bed; "and what have you to tell me?"

"Your will says you sister's eldest child."

"Yes; but that's only in the event of Louis Philippe dying before he is twenty-five."

"Exactly; and now I know something about your sister's eldest child, and, therefore, I have
come to tell you."

"You know something about Mary's eldest child?"

"I do, Scatcherd; it is a strange story, and maybe it will make you angry. I cannot help it
if it does so. I should not tell you this if I could avoid it; but as I do tell you, for your
sake, as you will see, and not for my own, I must implore you not to tell my secret to others."

Sir Roger now looked at him with an altered countenance. There was something in his voice of
the authoritative tone of other days, something in the doctor's look which had on the baronet
the same effect which in former days it had sometimes had on the stone-mason.

"Can you give me a promise, Scatcherd, that what I am about to tell you shall not be repeated?"

"A promise! Well, I don't know what it's about, you know. I don't like promises in the dark."

"Then I must leave it to your honour; for what I have to say must be said. You remember my
brother, Scatcherd?"

Remember his brother! thought the rich man to himself. The name of the doctor's brother had
not been alluded to between them since the days of that trial; but still it was impossible
but that Scatcherd should well remember him.

"Yes, yes; certainly. I remember your brother," said he. "I remember him well; there's no doubt
about that."

"Well, Scatcherd," and, as he spoke, the doctor laid his hand with kindness on the other's
arm. "Mary's eldest child was my brother's child as well.

"But there is no such child living," said Sir Roger; and, in his violence, as he spoke he threw
from off him the bedclothes, and tried to stand upon the floor. He found, however, that he
had no strength for such an effort, and was obliged to remain leaning on the bed and resting
on the doctor's arm.

"There was no such child ever lived," said he. "What do you mean by this?"

Dr Thorne would say nothing further till he had got the man into bed again. This he at last
effected, and then he went on with the story in his own way.

"Yes, Scatcherd, that child is alive; and for fear that you should unintentionally make her
your heir, I have thought it right to tell you this."

"A girl, is it?"

"Yes, a girl."

"And why should you want to spite her? If she is Mary's child, she is your brother's child
also. If she is my niece, she must be your niece too. Why should you want to spite her? Why
should you try to do her such a terrible injury?"

"I do not want to spite her."

"Where is she? Who is she? What is she called? Where does she live?"

The doctor did not at once answer all these questions. He had made up his mind that he would
tell Sir Roger that this child was living, but he had not as yet resolved to make known all
the circumstances of her history. He was not even yet quite aware whether it would be necessary
to say that this foundling orphan was the cherished darling of his own house.

"Such a child, is, at any rate, living," said he; "of that I give you my assurance; and under
your will, as now worded, it might come to pass that that child should be your heir. I do not
want to spite her, but I should be wrong to let you make your will without such knowledge,
seeing that I am possessed of it myself."

"But where is the girl?"

"I do not know that that signifies."

"Signifies! Yes; it does signify a great deal. But, Thorne, Thorne, now that I remember it,
now that I can think of things, it was--was it not you yourself who told me that the baby did
not live?"

"Very possibly."

"And was it a lie that you told me?"

"If so, yes. But it is no lie that I tell you now."

"I believed you then, Thorne; then, when I was a poor, broken-down day-labourer, lying in jail,
rotting there; but I tell you fairly, I do not believe you now. You have some scheme in this."

"Whatever scheme I may have, you can frustrate by making another will. What can I gain by telling
you this? I only do so to induce you to be more explicit in naming your heir."

They both remained silent for a while, during which the baronet poured out from his hidden
resource a glass of brandy and swallowed it.

"When a man is taken aback suddenly by such tidings as these, he must take a drop of something,
eh, doctor?"

Dr Thorne did not see the necessity; but the present, he felt, was no time for arguing the point.

"Come, Thorne, where is the girl? You must tell me that. She is my niece, and I have a right
to know. She shall come here, and I will do something for her. By the Lord! I would as soon
she had the money as any one else, if she is anything of a good 'un;--some of it, that is.
Is she a good 'un?"

"Good!" said the doctor, turning away his face. "Yes; she is good enough."

"She must be grown up by now. None of your light skirts, eh?"

"She is a good girl," said the doctor somewhat loudly and sternly. He could hardly trust himself
to say much on this point.

"Mary was a good girl, a very good girl, till"--and Sir Roger raised himself up in his bed
with his fist clenched, as though he were again about to strike that fatal blow at the farm-yard
gate. "But come, it's no good thinking of that; you behaved well and manly, always. And so
poor Mary's child is alive; at least, you say so."

"I say so, and you may believe it. Why should I deceive you?"

"No, no; I don't see why. But then why did you deceive me before?"

To this the doctor chose to make no answer, and again there was silence for a while.

"What do you call her, doctor?"

"Her name is Mary."

"The prettiest women's name going; there's no name like it," said the contractor, with an unusual
tenderness in his voice. "Mary--yes; but Mary what? What other name does she go by?"

Here the doctor hesitated.

"Mary Scatcherd--eh?"

"No. Not Mary Scatcherd."

"Not Mary Scatcherd! Mary what, then? You, with your d---- pride, wouldn't let her be called
Mary Thorne, I know."

