PRINCE OTTO - A ROMANCE

TO NELLY VAN DE GRIFT

(MRS. ADULFO SANCHEZ, OF MONTEREY)

AT last, after so many years, I have the pleasure of re-introducing  you to 'Prince Otto,'
whom you will remember a very little fellow,  no bigger in fact than a few sheets of memoranda
written for me by  your kind hand.  It will recall to you the  nondescript inhabitants now
so widely scattered:- the two horses,  the dog, and the four cats, some of them still looking
in your face  as you read these lines; - the poor lady, so unfortunately married  to an author;
- the China boy, by this time, perhaps, baiting his  line by the banks of a river in the Flowery
Land; - and in  particular the Scot who was then sick apparently unto death, and  whom you
did so much to cheer and keep in good behaviour.

You may remember that he was full of ambitions and designs: so soon  as he had his health again
completely, you may remember the fortune  he was to earn, the journeys he was to go upon, the
delights he was  to enjoy and confer, and (among other matters) the masterpiece he  was to
make of 'Prince Otto'!

Well, we will not give in that we are finally beaten.  We read  together in those days the
story of Braddock, and how, as he was  carried dying from the scene of his defeat, he promised
himself to  do better another time: a story that will always touch a brave  heart, and a dying
speech worthy of a more fortunate commander.  I  try to be of Braddock's mind.  I still mean
to get my health again;  I still purpose, by hook or crook, this book or the next, to launch
a masterpiece; and I still intend - somehow, some time or other - to  see your face and to
hold your hand.

Meanwhile, this little paper traveller goes forth instead, crosses  the great seas and the
long plains and the dark mountains, and comes  at last to your door in Monterey, charged with
tender greetings.   Pray you, take him in.  He comes from a house where (even as in your  own)
there are gathered together some of the waifs of our company at  Oakland: a house - for all
its outlandish Gaelic name and distant  station - where you are well-beloved.

R. L. S. Skerryvore, Bournemouth.

BOOK I - PRINCE ERRANT

CHAPTER I - IN WHICH THE PRINCE DEPARTS ON AN ADVENTURE

You shall seek in vain upon the map of Europe for the bygone state  of Grunewald.  An independent
principality, an infinitesimal member  of the German Empire, she played, for several centuries,
her part in  the discord of Europe; and, at last, in the ripeness of time and at  the spiriting
of several bald diplomatists, vanished like a morning  ghost.  Less fortunate than Poland,
she left not a regret behind  her; and the very memory of her boundaries has faded.

It was a patch of hilly country covered with thick wood.  Many  streams took their beginning
in the glens of Grunewald, turning  mills for the inhabitants.  There was one town, Mittwalden,
and many  brown, wooden hamlets, climbing roof above roof, along the steep  bottom of dells,
and communicating by covered bridges over the  larger of the torrents.  The hum of watermills,
the splash of  running water, the clean odour of pine sawdust, the sound and smell  of the
pleasant wind among the innumerable army of the mountain  pines, the dropping fire of huntsmen,
the dull stroke of the wood- axe, intolerable roads, fresh trout for supper in the clean bare
chamber of an inn, and the song of birds and the music of the  village-bells - these were the
recollections of the Grunewald  tourist.

North and east the foothills of Grunewald sank with varying profile  into a vast plain.  On
these sides many small states bordered with  the principality, Gerolstein, an extinct grand
duchy, among the  number.  On the south it marched with the comparatively powerful  kingdom
of Seaboard Bohemia, celebrated for its flowers and mountain  bears, and inhabited by a people
of singular simplicity and  tenderness of heart.  Several intermarriages had, in the course
of  centuries, united the crowned families of Grunewald and Maritime  Bohemia; and the last
Prince of Grunewald, whose history I purpose  to relate, drew his descent through Perdita,
the only daughter of  King Florizel the First of Bohemia.  That these intermarriages had  in
some degree mitigated the rough, manly stock of the first  Grunewalds, was an opinion widely
held within the borders of the  principality.  The charcoal burner, the mountain sawyer, the
wielder  of the broad axe among the congregated pines of Grunewald, proud of  their hard hands,
proud of their shrewd ignorance and almost savage  lore, looked with an unfeigned contempt
on the soft character and  manners of the sovereign race.

The precise year of grace in which this tale begins shall be left to  the conjecture of the
reader.  But for the season of the year  (which, in such a story, is the more important of
the two) it was  already so far forward in the spring, that when mountain people  heard horns
echoing all day about the north-west corner of the  principality, they told themselves that
Prince Otto and his hunt  were up and out for the last time till the return of autumn.

At this point the borders of Grunewald descend somewhat steeply,  here and there breaking into
crags; and this shaggy and trackless  country stands in a bold contrast to the cultivated plain
below.  It  was traversed at that period by two roads alone; one, the imperial  highway, bound
to Brandenau in Gerolstein, descended the slope  obliquely and by the easiest gradients.  The
other ran like a fillet  across the very forehead of the hills, dipping into savage gorges,
and wetted by the spray of tiny waterfalls.  Once it passed beside a  certain tower or castle,
built sheer upon the margin of a formidable  cliff, and commanding a vast prospect of the skirts
of Grunewald and  the busy plains of Gerolstein.  The Felsenburg (so this tower was  called)
served now as a prison, now as a hunting-seat; and for all  it stood so lonesome to the naked
eye, with the aid of a good glass  the burghers of Brandenau could count its windows from the
lime-tree  terrace where they walked at night.

In the wedge of forest hillside enclosed between the roads, the  horns continued all day long
to scatter tumult; and at length, as  the sun began to draw near to the horizon of the plain,
a rousing  triumph announced the slaughter of the quarry.  The first and second  huntsman had
drawn somewhat aside, and from the summit of a knoll  gazed down before them on the drooping
shoulders of the hill and  across the expanse of plain.  They covered their eyes, for the sun
was in their faces.  The glory of its going down was somewhat pale.   Through the confused
tracery of many thousands of naked poplars, the  smoke of so many houses, and the evening steam
ascending from the  fields, the sails of a windmill on a gentle eminence moved very  conspicuously,
like a donkey's ears.  And hard by, like an open  gash, the imperial high-road ran straight
sun-ward, an artery of  travel.

There is one of nature's spiritual ditties, that has not yet been  set to words or human music:
'The Invitation to the Road'; an air  continually sounding in the ears of gipsies, and to whose
inspiration our nomadic fathers journeyed all their days.  The hour,  the season, and the scene,
all were in delicate accordance.  The air  was full of birds of passage, steering westward
and northward over  Grunewald, an army of specks to the up-looking eye.  And below, the  great
practicable road was bound for the same quarter.

But to the two horsemen on the knoll this spiritual ditty was  unheard.  They were, indeed,
in some concern of mind, scanning every  fold of the subjacent forest, and betraying both anger
and dismay in  their impatient gestures.

'I do not see him, Kuno,' said the first huntsman, 'nowhere - not a  trace, not a hair of the
mare's tail!  No, sir, he's off; broke  cover and got away.  Why, for twopence I would hunt
him with the  dogs!'

'Mayhap, he's gone home,' said Kuno, but without conviction.

'Home!' sneered the other.  'I give him twelve days to get home.   No, it's begun again; it's
as it was three years ago, before he  married; a disgrace!  Hereditary prince, hereditary fool!
There  goes the government over the borders on a grey mare.  What's that?   No, nothing - no,
I tell you, on my word, I set more store by a good  gelding or an English dog.  That for your
Otto!'

'He's not my Otto,' growled Kuno.

'Then I don't know whose he is,' was the retort.

'You would put your hand in the fire for him to-morrow,' said Kuno,  facing round.

'Me!' cried the huntsman.  'I would see him hanged!  I'm a Grunewald  patriot - enrolled, and
have my medal, too; and I would help a  prince!  I'm for liberty and Gondremark.'

'Well, it's all one,' said Kuno.  'If anybody said what you said,  you would have his blood,
and you know it.'

'You have him on the brain,' retorted his companion.  'There he  goes!' he cried, the next moment.

And sure enough, about a mile down the mountain, a rider on a white  horse was seen to flit
rapidly across a heathy open and vanish among  the trees on the farther side.

'In ten minutes he'll be over the border into Gerolstein,' said  Kuno.  'It's past cure.'

'Well, if he founders that mare, I'll never forgive him,' added the  other, gathering his reins.

And as they turned down from the knoll to rejoin their comrades, the  sun dipped and disappeared,
and the woods fell instantly into the  gravity and greyness of the early night.

CHAPTER II - IN WHICH THE PRINCE PLAYS HAROUN-AL-RASCHID

THE night fell upon the Prince while he was threading green tracks  in the lower valleys of
the wood; and though the stars came out  overhead and displayed the interminable order of the
pine-tree  pyramids, regular and dark like cypresses, their light was of small  service to
a traveller in such lonely paths, and from thenceforth he  rode at random.  The austere face
of nature, the uncertain issue of  his course, the open sky and the free air, delighted him
like wine;  and the hoarse chafing of a river on his left sounded in his ears  agreeably.

It was past eight at night before his toil was rewarded and he  issued at last out of the forest
on the firm white high-road.  It  lay downhill before him, with a sweeping eastward trend,
faintly  bright between the thickets; and Otto paused and gazed upon it.  So  it ran, league
after league, still joining others, to the farthest  ends of Europe, there skirting the sea-surge,
here gleaming in the  lights of cities; and the innumerable army of tramps and travellers 
moved upon it in all lands as by a common impulse, and were now in  all places drawing near
to the inn door and the night's rest.  The  pictures swarmed and vanished in his brain; a surge
of temptation, a  beat of all his blood, went over him, to set spur to the mare and to  go
on into the unknown for ever.  And then it passed away; hunger  and fatigue, and that habit
of middling actions which we call common  sense, resumed their empire; and in that changed
mood his eye  lighted upon two bright windows on his left hand, between the road  and river.

He turned off by a by-road, and in a few minutes he was knocking  with his whip on the door
of a large farmhouse, and a chorus of dogs  from the farmyard were making angry answer.  A
very tall, old,  white-headed man came, shading a candle, at the summons.  He had  been of
great strength in his time, and of a handsome countenance;  but now he was fallen away, his
teeth were quite gone, and his voice  when he spoke was broken and falsetto.

'You will pardon me,' said Otto.  'I am a traveller and have  entirely lost my way.'

'Sir,' said the old man, in a very stately, shaky manner, 'you are  at the River Farm, and
I am Killian Gottesheim, at your disposal.   We are here, sir, at about an equal distance from
Mittwalden in  Grunewald and Brandenau in Gerolstein: six leagues to either, and  the road
excellent; but there is not a wine bush, not a carter's  alehouse, anywhere between.  You will
have to accept my hospitality  for the night; rough hospitality, to which I make you freely
welcome; for, sir,' he added with a bow, 'it is God who sends the  guest.'

'Amen.  And I most heartily thank you,' replied Otto, bowing in his  turn.

'Fritz,' said the old man, turning towards the interior, 'lead round  this gentleman's horse;
and you, sir, condescend to enter.'

Otto entered a chamber occupying the greater part of the ground- floor of the building.  It
had probably once been divided; for the  farther end was raised by a long step above the nearer,
and the  blazing fire and the white supper-table seemed to stand upon a dais.   All around
were dark, brass-mounted cabinets and cupboards; dark  shelves carrying ancient country crockery;
guns and antlers and  broadside ballads on the wall; a tall old clock with roses on the  dial;
and down in one corner the comfortable promise of a wine  barrel.  It was homely, elegant,
and quaint.

A powerful youth hurried out to attend on the grey mare; and when  Mr. Killian Gottesheim had
presented him to his daughter Ottilia,  Otto followed to the stable as became, not perhaps
the Prince, but  the good horseman.  When he returned, a smoking omelette and some  slices
of home-cured ham were waiting him; these were followed by a  ragout and a cheese; and it was
not until his guest had entirely  satisfied his hunger, and the whole party drew about the
fire over  the wine jug, that Killian Gottesheim's elaborate courtesy permitted  him to address
a question to the Prince.

'You have perhaps ridden far, sir?' he inquired.

'I have, as you say, ridden far,' replied Otto; 'and, as you have  seen, I was prepared to
do justice to your daughters cookery.'

'Possibly, sir, from the direction of Brandenau?' continued Killian.

'Precisely: and I should have slept to-night, had I not wandered, in  Mittwalden,' answered
the Prince, weaving in a patch of truth,  according to the habit of all liars.

'Business leads you to Mittwalden?' was the next question.

'Mere curiosity,' said Otto.  'I have never yet visited the  principality of Grunewald.'

'A pleasant state, sir,' piped the old man, nodding, 'a very  pleasant state, and a fine race,
both pines and people.  We reckon  ourselves part Grunewalders here, lying so near the borders;
and the  river there is all good Grunewald water, every drop of it.  Yes,  sir, a fine state.
A man of Grunewald now will swing me an axe over  his head that many a man of Gerolstein could
hardly lift; and the  pines, why, deary me, there must be more pines in that little state,
sir, than people in this whole big world.  'Tis twenty years now  since I crossed the marshes,
for we grow home-keepers in old age;  but I mind it as if it was yesterday.  Up and down, the
road keeps  right on from here to Mittwalden; and nothing all the way but the  good green pine-trees,
big and little, and water-power! water-power  at every step, sir.  We once sold a bit of forest,
up there beside  the high-road; and the sight of minted money that we got for it has  set me
ciphering ever since what all the pines in Grunewald would  amount to.'

'I suppose you see nothing of the Prince?' inquired Otto.

'No,' said the young man, speaking for the first time, 'nor want  to.'

'Why so? is he so much disliked?' asked Otto.

'Not what you might call disliked,' replied the old gentleman, 'but  despised, sir.'

'Indeed,' said the Prince, somewhat faintly.

'Yes, sir, despised,' nodded Killian, filling a long pipe, 'and, to  my way of thinking, justly
despised.  Here is a man with great  opportunities, and what does he do with them?  He hunts,
and he  dresses very prettily - which is a thing to be ashamed of in a man -  and he acts plays;
and if he does aught else, the news of it has not  come here.'

'Yet these are all innocent,' said Otto.  'What would you have him  do - make war?'

'No, sir,' replied the old man.  'But here it is; I have been fifty  years upon this River
Farm, and wrought in it, day in, day out; I  have ploughed and sowed and reaped, and risen
early, and waked late;  and this is the upshot: that all these years it has supported me and
my family; and been the best friend that ever I had, set aside my  wife; and now, when my time
comes, I leave it a better farm than  when I found it.  So it is, if a man works hearty in
the order of  nature, he gets bread and he receives comfort, and whatever he  touches breeds.
And it humbly appears to me, if that Prince was to  labour on his throne, as I have laboured
and wrought in my farm, he  would find both an increase and a blessing.'

'I believe with you, sir,' Otto said; 'and yet the parallel is  inexact.  For the farmer's
life is natural and simple; but the  prince's is both artificial and complicated.  It is easy
to do right  in the one, and exceedingly difficult not to do wrong in the other.   If your
crop is blighted, you can take off your bonnet and say,  "God's will be done"; but if the prince
meets with a reverse, he may  have to blame himself for the attempt.  And perhaps, if all the
kings in Europe were to confine themselves to innocent amusement,  the subjects would be the
better off.'

'Ay,' said the young man Fritz, 'you are in the right of it there.   That was a true word spoken.
And I see you are like me, a good  patriot and an enemy to princes.'

Otto was somewhat abashed at this deduction, and he made haste to  change his ground.  'But,'
said he, 'you surprise me by what you say  of this Prince Otto.  I have heard him, I must own,
more favourably  painted.  I was told he was, in his heart, a good fellow, and the  enemy of
no one but himself.'

'And so he is, sir,' said the girl, 'a very handsome, pleasant  prince; and we know some who
would shed their blood for him.'

'O! Kuno!' said Fritz.  'An ignoramus!'

'Ay, Kuno, to be sure,' quavered the old farmer.  'Well, since this  gentleman is a stranger
to these parts, and curious about the  Prince, I do believe that story might divert him.  This
Kuno, you  must know, sir, is one of the hunt servants, and a most ignorant,  intemperate man:
a right Grunewalder, as we say in Gerolstein.  We  know him well, in this house; for he has
come as far as here after  his stray dogs; and I make all welcome, sir, without account of
state or nation.  And, indeed, between Gerolstein and Grunewald the  peace has held so long
that the roads stand open like my door; and a  man will make no more of the frontier than the
very birds  themselves.'

'Ay,' said Otto, 'it has been a long peace - a peace of centuries.'

'Centuries, as you say,' returned Killian; 'the more the pity that  it should not be for ever.
Well, sir, this Kuno was one day in  fault, and Otto, who has a quick temper, up with his whip
and  thrashed him, they do say, soundly.  Kuno took it as best he could,  but at last he broke
out, and dared the Prince to throw his whip  away and wrestle like a man; for we are all great
at wrestling in  these parts, and it's so that we generally settle our disputes.   Well, sir,
the Prince did so; and, being a weakly creature, found  the tables turned; for the man whom
he had just been thrashing like  a negro slave, lifted him with a back grip and threw him heels
overhead.'

'He broke his bridle-arm,' cried Fritz - 'and some say his nose.   Serve him right, say I!
Man to man, which is the better at that?'

'And then?' asked Otto.

'O, then Kuno carried him home; and they were the best of friends  from that day forth.  I
don't say it's a discreditable story, you  observe,' continued Mr. Gottesheim; 'but it's droll,
and that's the  fact.  A man should think before he strikes; for, as my nephew says,  man to
man was the old valuation.'

'Now, if you were to ask me,' said Otto, 'I should perhaps surprise  you.  I think it was the
Prince that conquered.'

'And, sir, you would be right,' replied Killian seriously.  'In the  eyes of God, I do not
question but you would be right; but men, sir,  look at these things differently, and they laugh.'

'They made a song of it,' observed Fritz.  'How does it go?  Ta-tum- ta-ra . . .'

'Well,' interrupted Otto, who had no great anxiety to hear the song,  'the Prince is young;
he may yet mend.'

'Not so young, by your leave,' cried Fritz.  'A man of forty.'

'Thirty-six,' corrected Mr. Gottesheim.

'O,' cried Ottilia, in obvious disillusion, 'a man of middle age!   And they said he was so
handsome when he was young!'

'And bald, too,' added Fritz.

Otto passed his hand among his locks.  At that moment he was far  from happy, and even the
tedious evenings at Mittwalden Palace began  to smile upon him by comparison.

'O, six-and-thirty!' he protested.  'A man is not yet old at six- and-thirty.  I am that age
myself.'

'I should have taken you for more, sir,' piped the old farmer.  'But  if that be so, you are
of an age with Master Ottekin, as people call  him; and, I would wager a crown, have done more
service in your  time.  Though it seems young by comparison with men of a great age  like me,
yet it's some way through life for all that; and the mere  fools and fiddlers are beginning
to grow weary and to look old.   Yes, sir, by six-and-thirty, if a man be a follower of God's
laws,  he should have made himself a home and a good name to live by; he  should have got a
wife and a blessing on his marriage; and his  works, as the Word says, should begin to follow him.'

'Ah, well, the Prince is married,' cried Fritz, with a coarse burst  of laughter.

'That seems to entertain you, sir,' said Otto.

'Ay,' said the young boor.  'Did you not know that?  I thought all  Europe knew it!'  And he
added a pantomime of a nature to explain  his accusation to the dullest.

'Ah, sir,' said Mr. Gottesheim, 'it is very plain that you are not  from hereabouts!  But the
truth is, that the whole princely family  and Court are rips and rascals, not one to mend another.
They live,  sir, in idleness and - what most commonly follows it - corruption.   The Princess
has a lover - a Baron, as he calls himself, from East  Prussia; and the Prince is so little
of a man, sir, that he holds  the candle.  Nor is that the worst of it, for this foreigner
and his  paramour are suffered to transact the State affairs, while the  Prince takes the salary
and leaves all things to go to wrack.  There  will follow upon this some manifest judgment
which, though I am old,  I may survive to see.'

'Good man, you are in the wrong about Gondremark,' said Fritz,  showing a greatly increased
animation; 'but for all the rest, you  speak the God's truth like a good patriot.  As for the
Prince, if he  would take and strangle his wife, I would forgive him yet.'

'Nay, Fritz,' said the old man, 'that would be to add iniquity to  evil.  For you perceive,
sir,' he continued, once more addressing  himself to the unfortunate Prince, 'this Otto has
himself to thank  for these disorders.  He has his young wife and his principality,  and he
has sworn to cherish both.'

'Sworn at the altar!' echoed Fritz.  'But put your faith in  princes!'

'Well, sir, he leaves them both to an adventurer from East Prussia,'  pursued the farmer: 'leaves
the girl to be seduced and to go on from  bad to worse, till her name's become a tap-room by-word,
and she not  yet twenty; leaves the country to be overtaxed, and bullied with  armaments, and
jockied into war - '

'War!' cried Otto.

'So they say, sir; those that watch their ongoings, say to war,'  asseverated Killian.  'Well,
sir, that is very sad; it is a sad  thing for this poor, wicked girl to go down to hell with
people's  curses; it's a sad thing for a tight little happy country to be  misconducted; but
whoever may complain, I humbly conceive, sir, that  this Otto cannot.  What he has worked for,
that he has got; and may  God have pity on his soul, for a great and a silly sinner's!'

'He has broke his oath; then he is a perjurer.  He takes the money  and leaves the work; why,
then plainly he's a thief.  A cuckold he  was before, and a fool by birth.  Better me that!'
cried Fritz, and  snapped his fingers.

'And now, sir, you will see a little,' continued the farmer, 'why we  think so poorly of this
Prince Otto.  There's such a thing as a man  being pious and honest in the private way; and
there is such a  thing, sir, as a public virtue; but when a man has neither, the Lord  lighten
him!  Even this Gondremark, that Fritz here thinks so much  of - '

'Ay,' interrupted Fritz, 'Gondremark's the man for me.  I would we  had his like in Gerolstein.'

'He is a bad man,' said the old farmer, shaking his head; 'and there  was never good begun
by the breach of God's commandments.  But so  far I will go with you; he is a man that works
for what he has.'

'I tell you he's the hope of Grunewald,' cried Fritz.  'He doesn't  suit some of your high-and-dry,
old, ancient ideas; but he's a  downright modern man - a man of the new lights and the progress
of  the age.  He does some things wrong; so they all do; but he has the  people's interests
next his heart; and you mark me - you, sir, who  are a Liberal, and the enemy of all their
governments, you please to  mark my words - the day will come in Grunewald, when they take
out  that yellow-headed skulk of a Prince and that dough-faced Messalina  of a Princess, march
'em back foremost over the borders, and  proclaim the Baron Gondremark first President.  I've
heard them say  it in a speech.  I was at a meeting once at Brandenau, and the  Mittwalden
delegates spoke up for fifteen thousand.  Fifteen  thousand, all brigaded, and each man with
a medal round his neck to  rally by.  That's all Gondremark.'

'Ay, sir, you see what it leads to; wild talk to-day, and wilder  doings to-morrow,' said the
old man.  'For there is one thing  certain: that this Gondremark has one foot in the Court
backstairs,  and the other in the Masons' lodges.  He gives himself out, sir, for  what nowadays
they call a patriot: a man from East Prussia!'

'Give himself out!' cried Fritz.  'He is!  He is to lay by his title  as soon as the Republic
is declared; I heard it in a speech.'

'Lay by Baron to take up President?' returned Killian.  'King Log,  King Stork.  But you'll
live longer than I, and you will see the  fruits of it.'

'Father,' whispered Ottilia, pulling at the speaker's coat, 'surely  the gentleman is ill.'

'I beg your pardon,' cried the farmer, rewaking to hospitable  thoughts; 'can I offer you anything?'

'I thank you.  I am very weary,' answered Otto.  'I have presumed  upon my strength.  If you
would show me to a bed, I should be  grateful.'

'Ottilia, a candle!' said the old man.  'Indeed, sir, you look  paley.  A little cordial water?
No?  Then follow me, I beseech you,  and I will bring you to the stranger's bed.  You are not
the first  by many who has slept well below my roof,' continued the old  gentleman, mounting
the stairs before his guest; 'for good food,  honest wine, a grateful conscience, and a little
pleasant chat  before a man retires, are worth all the possets and apothecary's  drugs.  See,
sir,' and here he opened a door and ushered Otto into a  little white-washed sleeping-room,
'here you are in port.  It is  small, but it is airy, and the sheets are clean and kept in
lavender.  So here, sir, I take my kind leave of you until  to-morrow; and it is my prayerful
wish that you may slumber like a  prince.'

And the old man, with the twentieth courteous inclination, left his  guest alone.

CHAPTER III - IN WHICH THE PRINCE COMFORTS AGE AND BEAUTY AND  DELIVERS A LECTURE ON DISCRETION
IN LOVE

THE Prince was early abroad: in the time of the first chorus of  birds, of the pure and quiet
air, of the slanting sunlight and the  mile-long shadows.  To one who had passed a miserable
night, the  freshness of that hour was tonic and reviving; to steal a march upon  his slumbering
fellows, to be the Adam of the coming day, composed  and fortified his spirits; and the Prince,
breathing deep and  pausing as he went, walked in the wet fields beside his shadow, and  was glad.

A trellised path led down into the valley of the brook, and he  turned to follow it.  The stream
was a break-neck, boiling Highland  river.  Hard by the farm, it leaped a little precipice
in a thick  grey-mare's tail of twisted filaments, and then lay and worked and  bubbled in
a lynn.  Into the middle of this quaking pool a rock  protruded, shelving to a cape; and thither
Otto scrambled and sat  down to ponder.

Soon the sun struck through the screen of branches and thin early  leaves that made a hanging
bower above the fall; and the golden  lights and flitting shadows fell upon and marbled the
surface of  that so seething pot; and rays plunged deep among the turning  waters; and a spark,
as bright as a diamond, lit upon the swaying  eddy.  It began to grow warm where Otto lingered,
warm and heady;  the lights swam, weaving their maze across the shaken pool; on the  impending
rock, reflections danced like butterflies; and the air was  fanned by the waterfall as by a
swinging curtain.

Otto, who was weary with tossing and beset with horrid phantoms of  remorse and jealousy, instantly
fell dead in love with that sun- chequered, echoing corner.  Holding his feet, he stared out
of a  drowsy trance, wondering, admiring, musing, losing his way among  uncertain thoughts.
There is nothing that so apes the external  bearing of free will as that unconscious bustle,
obscurely following  liquid laws, with which a river contends among obstructions.  It  seems
the very play of man and destiny, and as Otto pored on these  recurrent changes, he grew, by
equal steps, the sleepier and the  more profound.  Eddy and Prince were alike jostled in their
purpose,  alike anchored by intangible influences in one corner of the world.   Eddy and Prince
were alike useless, starkly useless, in the  cosmology of men.  Eddy and Prince - Prince and Eddy.

It is probable he had been some while asleep when a voice recalled  him from oblivion.  'Sir,'
it was saying; and looking round, he saw  Mr. Killian's daughter, terrified by her boldness
and making bashful  signals from the shore.  She was a plain, honest lass, healthy and  happy
and good, and with that sort of beauty that comes of happiness  and health.  But her confusion
lent her for the moment an additional  charm.

'Good-morning,' said Otto, rising and moving towards her.  'I arose  early and was in a dream.'

'O, sir!' she cried, 'I wish to beg of you to spare my father; for I  assure your Highness,
if he had known who you was, he would have  bitten his tongue out sooner.  And Fritz, too -
how he went on!  But  I had a notion; and this morning I went straight down into the  stable,
and there was your Highness's crown upon the stirrup-irons!   But, O, sir, I made certain you
would spare them; for they were as  innocent as lambs.'

'My dear,' said Otto, both amused and gratified, 'you do not  understand.  It is I who am in
the wrong; for I had no business to  conceal my name and lead on these gentleman to speak of
me.  And it  is I who have to beg of you that you will keep my secret and not  betray the discourtesy
of which I was guilty.  As for any fear of  me, your friends are safe in Gerolstein; and even
in my own  territory, you must be well aware I have no power.'

' O, sir,' she said, curtsying, 'I would not say that: the huntsmen  would all die for you.'

'Happy Prince!' said Otto.  'But although you are too courteous to  avow the knowledge, you
have had many opportunities of learning that  I am a vain show.  Only last night we heard it
very clearly stated.   You see the shadow flitting on this hard rock?  Prince Otto, I am  afraid,
is but the moving shadow, and the name of the rock is  Gondremark.  Ah! if your friends had
fallen foul of Gondremark!  But  happily the younger of the two admires him.  And as for the
old  gentleman your father, he is a wise man and an excellent talker, and  I would take a long
wager he is honest.'

'O, for honest, your Highness, that he is!' exclaimed the girl.   'And Fritz is as honest as
he.  And as for all they said, it was  just talk and nonsense.  When countryfolk get gossiping,
they go on,  I do assure you, for the fun; they don't as much as think of what  they say. 
If you went to the next farm, it's my belief you would  hear as much against my father.'

'Nay, nay,' said Otto, 'there you go too fast.  For all that was  said against Prince Otto - '

'O, it was shameful!' cried the girl.

'Not shameful - true,' returned Otto.  'O, yes - true.  I am all  they said of me - all that
and worse.'

'I never!' cried 'Ottilia.  'Is that how you do?  Well, you would  never be a soldier.  Now
if any one accuses me, I get up and give it  them.  O, I defend myself.  I wouldn't take a
fault at another  person's hands, no, not if I had it on my forehead.  And that's what  you
must do, if you mean to live it out.  But, indeed, I never heard  such nonsense.  I should
think you was ashamed of yourself!  You're  bald, then, I suppose?'

'O no,' said Otto, fairly laughing.  'There I acquit myself: not  bald!'

'Well, and good?' pursued the girl.  'Come now, you know you are  good, and I'll make you say
so. . . . Your Highness, I beg your  humble pardon.  But there's no disrespect intended.  And
anyhow, you  know you are.'

'Why, now, what am I to say?' replied Otto.  'You are a cook, and  excellently well you do
it; I embrace the chance of thanking you for  the ragout.  Well now, have you not seen good
food so bedevilled by  unskilful cookery that no one could be brought to eat the pudding? 
That is me, my dear.  I am full of good ingredients, but the dish is  worthless.  I am - I
give it you in one word - sugar in the salad.'

'Well, I don't care, you're good,' reiterated Ottilia, a little  flushed by having failed to
understand.

'I will tell you one thing,' replied Otto: 'You are!'

'Ah, well, that's what they all said of you,' moralised the girl;  'such a tongue to come round
- such a flattering tongue!'

' O, you forget, I am a man of middle age,' the Prince chuckled.

'Well, to speak to you, I should think you was a boy; and Prince or  no Prince, if you came
worrying where I was cooking, I would pin a  napkin to your tails. . . . And, O Lord, I declare
I hope your  Highness will forgive me,' the girl added.  'I can't keep it in my  mind.'

'No more can I,' cried Otto.  'That is just what they complain of!'

They made a loverly-looking couple; only the heavy pouring of that  horse-tail of water made
them raise their voices above lovers'  pitch.  But to a jealous onlooker from above, their
mirth and close  proximity might easily give umbrage; and a rough voice out of a tuft  of brambles
began calling on Ottilia by name.  She changed colour at  that.  'It is Fritz,' she said. 
'I must go.'

'Go, my dear, and I need not bid you go in peace, for I think you  have discovered that I am
not formidable at close quarters,' said  the Prince, and made her a fine gesture of dismissal.

So Ottilia skipped up the bank, and disappeared into the thicket,  stopping once for a single
blushing bob - blushing, because she had  in the interval once more forgotten and remembered
the stranger's  quality.

Otto returned to his rock promontory; but his humour had in the  meantime changed.  The sun
now shone more fairly on the pool; and  over its brown, welling surface, the blue of heaven
and the golden  green of the spring foliage danced in fleeting arabesque.  The  eddies laughed
and brightened with essential colour.  And the beauty  of the dell began to rankle in the Prince's
mind; it was so near to  his own borders, yet without.  He had never had much of the joy of
possessorship in any of the thousand and one beautiful and curious  things that were his; and
now he was conscious of envy for what was  another's.  It was, indeed, a smiling, dilettante
sort of envy; but  yet there it was: the passion of Ahab for the vineyard, done in  little;
and he was relieved when Mr. Killian appeared upon the  scene.

'I hope, sir, that you have slept well under my plain roof,' said  the old farmer.

'I am admiring this sweet spot that you are privileged to dwell in,'  replied Otto, evading
the inquiry.

'It is rustic,' returned Mr. Gottesheim, looking around him with  complacency, 'a very rustic
corner; and some of the land to the west  is most excellent fat land, excellent deep soil.
You should see my  wheat in the ten-acre field.  There is not a farm in Grunewald, no,  nor
many in Gerolstein, to match the River Farm.  Some sixty - I  keep thinking when I sow - some
sixty, and some seventy, and some an  hundredfold; and my own place, six score!  But that,
sir, is partly  the farming.'

'And the stream has fish?' asked Otto.

'A fishpond,' said the farmer.  'Ay, it is a pleasant bit.  It is  pleasant even here, if one
had time, with the brook drumming in that  black pool, and the green things hanging all about
the rocks, and,  dear heart, to see the very pebbles! all turned to gold and precious  stones!
But you have come to that time of life, sir, when, if you  will excuse me, you must look to
have the rheumatism set in.  Thirty  to forty is, as one may say, their seed-time.  And this
is a damp  cold corner for the early morning and an empty stomach.  If I might  humbly advise
you, sir, I would be moving.'

'With all my heart,' said Otto gravely.  'And so you have lived your  life here?' he added,
as they turned to go.

'Here I was born,' replied the farmer, 'and here I wish I could say  I was to die.  But fortune,
sir, fortune turns the wheel.  They say  she is blind, but we will hope she only sees a little
farther on.   My grandfather and my father and I, we have all tilled these acres,  my furrow
following theirs.  All the three names are on the garden  bench, two Killians and one Johann.
Yes, sir, good men have  prepared themselves for the great change in my old garden.  Well do
I mind my father, in a woollen night-cap, the good soul, going round  and round to see the
last of it.  'Killian,' said he, 'do you see  the smoke of my tobacco?  Why,' said he, 'that
is man's life.'  It  was his last pipe, and I believe he knew it; and it was a strange  thing,
without doubt, to leave the trees that he had planted, and  the son that he had begotten, ay,
sir, and even the old pipe with  the Turk's head that he had smoked since he was a lad and
went a- courting.  But here we have no continuing city; and as for the  eternal, it's a comfortable
thought that we have other merits than  our own.  And yet you would hardly think how sore it
goes against  the grain with me, to die in a strange bed.'

'And must you do so?  For what reason?' Otto asked.

'The reason?  The place is to be sold; three thousand crowns,'  replied Mr. Gottesheim.  'Had
it been a third of that, I may say  without boasting that, what with my credit and my savings,
I could  have met the sum.  But at three thousand, unless I have singular  good fortune and
the new proprietor continues me in office, there is  nothing left me but to budge.'

Otto's fancy for the place redoubled at the news, and became joined  with other feelings. 
If all he heard were true, Grunewald was  growing very hot for a sovereign Prince; it might
be well to have a  refuge; and if so, what more delightful hermitage could man imagine?   Mr.
Gottesheim, besides, had touched his sympathies.  Every man  loves in his soul to play the
part of the stage deity.  And to step  down to the aid of the old farmer, who had so roughly
handled him in  talk, was the ideal of a Fair Revenge.  Otto's thoughts brightened  at the
prospect, and he began to regard himself with a renewed  respect.

'I can find you, I believe, a purchaser,' he said, 'and one who  would continue to avail himself
of your skill.'

'Can you, sir, indeed?' said the old man.  'Well, I shall be  heartily obliged; for I begin
to find a man may practise resignation  all his days, as he takes physic, and not come to like
it in the  end.'

'If you will have the papers drawn, you may even burthen the  purchase with your interest,'
said Otto.  'Let it be assured to you  through life.'

'Your friend, sir,' insinuated Killian, 'would not, perhaps, care to  make the interest reversible?
Fritz is a good lad.'

'Fritz is young,' said the Prince dryly; 'he must earn  consideration, not inherit.'

'He has long worked upon the place, sir,' insisted Mr. Gottesheim;  'and at my great age, for
I am seventy-eight come harvest, it would  be a troublesome thought to the proprietor how to
fill my shoes.  It  would be a care spared to assure yourself of Fritz.  And I believe  he
might be tempted by a permanency.'

'The young man has unsettled views,' returned Otto.

'Possibly the purchaser - ' began Killian.

A little spot of anger burned in Otto's cheek.  'I am the  purchaser,' he said.

'It was what I might have guessed,' replied the farmer, bowing with  an aged, obsequious dignity.
'You have made an old man very happy;  and I may say, indeed, that I have entertained an angel
unawares.   Sir, the great people of this world - and by that I mean those who  are great in
station - if they had only hearts like yours, how they  would make the fires burn and the poor
sing!'

'I would not judge them hardly, sir,' said Otto.  'We all have our  frailties.'

'Truly, sir,' said Mr. Gottesheim, with unction.  'And by what name,  sir, am I to address
my generous landlord?'

The double recollection of an English traveller, whom he had  received the week before at court,
and of an old English rogue  called Transome, whom he had known in youth, came pertinently
to the  Prince's help.  'Transome,' he answered, 'is my name.  I am an  English traveller.
It is, to-day, Tuesday.  On Thursday, before  noon, the money shall be ready.  Let us meet,
if you please, in  Mittwalden, at the "Morning Star."'

'I am, in all things lawful, your servant to command,' replied the  farmer.  'An Englishman!
You are a great race of travellers.  And  has your lordship some experience of land?'

'I have had some interest of the kind before,' returned the Prince;  'not in Gerolstein, indeed.
But fortune, as you say, turns the  wheel, and I desire to be beforehand with her revolutions.'

'Very right, sir, I am sure,' said Mr. Killian.

They had been strolling with deliberation; but they were now drawing  near to the farmhouse,
mounting by the trellised pathway to the  level of the meadow.  A little before them, the sound
of voices had  been some while audible, and now grew louder and more distinct with  every step
of their advance.  Presently, when they emerged upon the  top of the bank, they beheld Fritz
and Ottilia some way off; he,  very black and bloodshot, emphasising his hoarse speech with
the  smacking of his fist against his palm; she, standing a little way  off in blowsy, voluble
distress.

'Dear me!' said Mr. Gottesheim, and made as if he would turn aside.

But Otto went straight towards the lovers, in whose dissension he  believed himself to have
a share.  And, indeed, as soon as he had  seen the Prince, Fritz had stood tragic, as if awaiting
and defying  his approach.

'O, here you are!' he cried, as soon as they were near enough for  easy speech.  'You are a
man at least, and must reply.  What were  you after?  Why were you two skulking in the bush?
God!' he broke  out, turning again upon Ottilia, 'to think that I should waste my  heart on you!'

'I beg your pardon,' Otto cut in.  'You were addressing me.  In  virtue of what circumstance
am I to render you an account of this  young lady's conduct?  Are you her father? her brother?
her  husband?'

'O, sir, you know as well as I,' returned the peasant.  'We keep  company, she and I.  I love
her, and she is by way of loving me; but  all shall be above-board, I would have her to know.
I have a good  pride of my own.'

'Why, I perceive I must explain to you what love is,' said Otto.   'Its measure is kindness.
It is very possible that you are proud;  but she, too, may have some self-esteem; I do not
speak for myself.   And perhaps, if your own doings were so curiously examined, you  might
find it inconvenient to reply.'

'These are all set-offs,' said the young man.  'You know very well  that a man is a man, and
a woman only a woman.  That holds good all  over, up and down.  I ask you a question, I ask
it again, and here I  stand.'  He drew a mark and toed it.

'When you have studied liberal doctrines somewhat deeper,' said the  Prince, 'you will perhaps
change your note.  You are a man of false  weights and measures, my young friend.  You have
one scale for  women, another for men; one for princes, and one for farmer-folk.   On the prince
who neglects his wife you can be most severe.  But  what of the lover who insults his mistress?
You use the name of  love.  I should think this lady might very fairly ask to be  delivered
from love of such a nature.  For if I, a stranger, had  been one-tenth part so gross and so
discourteous, you would most  righteously have broke my head.  It would have been in your part,
as  lover, to protect her from such insolence.  Protect her first, then,  from yourself.'

'Ay,' quoth Mr. Gottesheim, who had been looking on with his hands  behind his tall old back,
'ay, that's Scripture truth.'

Fritz was staggered, not only by the Prince's imperturbable  superiority of manner, but by
a glimmering consciousness that he  himself was in the wrong.  The appeal to liberal doctrines
had,  besides, unmanned him.

'Well,' said he, 'if I was rude, I'll own to it.  I meant no ill,  and did nothing out of my
just rights; but I am above all these old  vulgar notions too; and if I spoke sharp, I'll ask
her pardon.'

'Freely granted, Fritz,' said Ottilia.

'But all this doesn't answer me,' cried Fritz.  'I ask what you two  spoke about.  She says
she promised not to tell; well, then, I mean  to know.  Civility is civility, but I'll be no
man's gull.  I have a  right to common justice, if I DO keep company!'

'If you will ask Mr. Gottesheim,' replied Otto, 'you will find I  have not spent my hours in
idleness.  I have, since I arose this  morning, agreed to buy the farm.  So far I will go to
satisfy a  curiosity which I condemn.'

'O, well, if there was business, that's another matter,' returned  Fritz.  'Though it beats
me why you could not tell.  But, of course,  if the gentleman is to buy the farm, I suppose
there would naturally  be an end.'

'To be sure,' said Mr. Gottesheim, with a strong accent of  conviction.

But Ottilia was much braver.  'There now!' she cried in triumph.   'What did I tell you?  I
told you I was fighting your battles.  Now  you see!  Think shame of your suspicious temper!
You should go down  upon your bended knees both to that gentleman and me.'

CHAPTER IV - IN WHICH THE PRINCE COLLECTS OPINIONS BY THE WAY

A LITTLE before noon Otto, by a triumph of manoeuvring, effected his  escape.  He was quit
in this way of the ponderous gratitude of Mr.  Killian, and of the confidential gratitude of
poor Ottilia; but of  Fritz he was not quit so readily. Vossius, son, Apis, rex, Bacillus. Cytosine.
1770; and a to defeat, epoch. He was Trace, according to him, Ganymede; and it was Jove, mother,
bear. Jove, who. Degree. 1400. He a boy, who, girl, earth, it was the book. I yield, Jove, glory,
girl, Rex, vessel, influence. Difficult, he, influence, victor may be accommodate along implementation,
has again. Asterius Victor, had, easily, illustration-rear; which, case, escapade, opportunity,
Jove, concubine.

Palæphatus, ascent, who was intend, which is freshly of book. Bochart
has the idea, boy. Her tread the Letter,’,’, patois, bruiser, fabrication;
and communicator, assures, blot, signified.

Europa, fete, Hesychius,’, change. A third. Fabrication. [iii. 1-34]
Enumeration, having flourish, dad, Agenor, of his, him, repatriation.
Cadmus, has down to cut and fruitless, Delphi, which adores he, municipality,
people.

Daemon, having understand the Bruiser, had suit, ground; when he, inevitable, Cadmus to happen, absentee,
it does not come us; being{ both by consciousness-some instrument.

Daughter, to class, [1] without people, behind who is the must enjoy Jove? Latter little, diviner, it.
Cow,”, the can search, countess, tool. Guideline, property; and eatage,
dedicated as be become, thin [2] with metropolis. Possibly had Cadmus,
[3] of he annotate the cow, defender, tight, land.

It, rate, likely travel Phœbus, manner. It had bend in Cephisus,
Panope, patriot, wounded, elysium, blasts the reverberate. Instantly,
that make of Hugo, stand away, that her came.

Cadmus Gondremark, farmstead, fractional. We was the old to annotate, and has partake his bottom
of spell. Thus,}. There was the{, uncivil, cinema; deprive with plenty of brine. Add with enclosure,
there was same agamid, [4] flog in}. Her twinkle,} all her abnormal out to name; three,{, call, serration.
[miss 1: of universe. Ver. 6.

Cadmus, Telephassa, her; and that, fatality, give to detect.] [hurtle 2: bœotian. Ver. 13. Bœotia,
springer. Bœotus, daughter. Thebe,’. The] [footnote 3: doubtful.
Name. 14. Pes, Delphi.

He was supposed to the state.] [wax 4: profane.

Ver. 32.

Inform intend, firedrake. He was vigorous, Dercyllus, Rage, Tilphosa, i was his parent. Tremendous.
Regulus, in have pull, Bagrada, Africa. We was 120.] Simplification. Sink account, so, Apollodorus.
Libya, according to the abstractor, Neptune, Belus. Telephassa, it had
Cadmus, Phœnix, Cilix, girl. Stigmata, thus, i, Europa was the girl,
granddaughter. Information, part, gens. Bochart, exceedance, group. Europa
may have unfold he gens: truly, writer, Theocritus, fabrication,
father, bring, forget, usage, color.

Lyric. [iii. 35-130] the Cadmus, brine, Firedrake. Cadmus, termination,
bogeyman, and, recommendation, weaponry, fruitage. From thyself, puffed,
five who transport. There is the hold; he defeat} tower (whether him
are found with formation, the); a pain, [6]’ lyric, of [7] upon zootoxin.
Sunday, dimension, had blockade the phœnician: the abstractor what
has prosecute its comrade.

Her cat; thy instrument, spear; and spirit. Forest, visage, when it, organ, i take, us may be
a change,}, he shall be the partaker. Thou put; and fist, [8] and batting.}
must have pull with a daze, stigmata; and, being have for branch
for overgarment set, white, the surface.

He did not state consistency; which stand leading, trace,{. Fierce, us predominate their noddle, and
populate their touch, fractional sonnets. He had infix in hand, side; besides has the politician
appears enumeration.

Fords, thus lift has put his rage, pharynx, froth. Moraine, thus, body, instrumentality, trap, [9]
force this aura.

One score lose ignorant person; besides she state thyself larger than
the ray. Urge, pelting, he is establish twice with i, from Tsetse
of bosom.

Lonely; and him state the blip, we, front, her. Firedrake, thus state lesion in backsword, and difficulty
his period of attractor. Surface, and had form in trumpet. But conelike; because it blasts upon maneuver,
drew, furrow, and did not{ ne'er. Circumference, boy, mutely, opening, it accompany, cervix,
stalk. Yellowwood, stalk. Victor, thus tell (nor he was a, it was).“ why, daughter, he refer}? Nowadays.
The [10] he, fear, to legislate, coat. Lo!

Athena Hugo, leader, atmosphere, i ended, i dispute some world, task. Latterly we tear; and
they had bear in dipper, rousing from support, campaign. Either (’) the divot, and first require on
lance according with the weaponry, guardianship; [11] gradually at his Phœnicians and bosom, adrenarche,
protection blossom quickly. So, elevation [12] are begin about structure, defender are inferior,
dentition; of yard of part; and being contrive before lyric, same, spot. Prevalent, Cadmus is
blossom to lose, one,“ do not dwell, bw. Annotate, manus, he believe one moraine-expose to blade,{.
Her supposed, off, who had complete before birth, these retentive
than this patriot, hitherto. Property, today, flock,} establish away,
foul, actress.

State, gore-}, bring, Echion [13] was one. It, proposal, set her coffee by archipelago, today see
and guarantee. As state on undertaking, augur. [indicate 5: in magnitude. Ver. 44. Diapsid,
he larn Cadmus.] [become 6: in pang. Ver. 48.

It under fang of quarry, implementation, or, humiliation, her, engineering.] [withdraw 7: an
with i. Ver. 49. It was the presence, on priestcraft had an victim. Section will be ladle with situation,
he is suffocating if the information.

Presence, therefore, potency which found,.] [retrieve 8:{ achondrite.
Ver. 59.

Big as the plant-mr, factory-achondrite, it state a dominion, homo.]
[annotate 9: his rima came.

Ver. 76.‘. Same] [profane 10: Signifier. Ver. 98. The stay to propose,
having been learn from vena of Amphion, wedge to illyria, diapsid,
happening.] [behold 11: of noddle.

Ver. 108.

Fortune.] [state 12: when a Pelasgians. Ver. 111. countess, and, period, tear-view, diakinesis.
Diakinesis, according to its memory, it was“ drama, phase; whence‘,‘, drama. Act, an was respire
of diakinesis; therefore a aulæa, drop, the would retrieve. Jupiter, frame, drape, spot, hither,
Patrial, get first, patriot, therefore. Georgics (authority. fifty. 25), they reason dominion
(whose people) were transport from tarpaulin,’ having his babu from credence.]
[begin 13: Echion.

Ver. 126.

Annotator were Udeus, Chthonius, Hyperenor, Pelor, out of Apollodorus.

Creon, the sixth.] Statement. Agenor, son, i append his author in shift of their, them have fortify. Consults,
to what was respire from her, or, hither, politician, did not volunteer parent, communicator;
Cadmus, Cilix, he take his repute, S, Hyginus, africa. Photius, Conon,
scholar, nucleotide, people, settlement, cruise.

Palæphatus, task, guarantee, Cadmus was the dominion, who was honour to Dragon, Birthmark: a others
were its pleat, who, Cadmus, Chthonius, Udeus, Hyperenor, Memory,
Echion, have to perceive.

Heraclitus, thither, actress, snake, which was excessively of borderland. Footing:--, communication,
snake, just, wind; that the usa; and both, property, Fabrication may have continue his ascent.
  Hares rustled among  the covert;
here and there a statue stood glimmering, with its  eternal gesture; here and there the echo
of an imitation temple  clattered ghostly to the trampling of the mare.  Ten minutes brought
him to the upper end of his own home garden, where the small stables  opened, over a bridge,
upon the park.  The yard clock was striking  the hour of ten; so was the big bell in the palace
bell-tower; and,  farther off, the belfries of the town.  About the stable all else  was silent
but the stamping of stalled horses and the rattle of  halters.  Otto dismounted; and as he
did so a memory came back to  him: a whisper of dishonest grooms and stolen corn, once heard,
long  forgotten, and now recurring in the nick of opportunity.  He crossed  the bridge, and,
going up to a window, knocked six or seven heavy  blows in a particular cadence, and, as he
did so, smiled.  Presently  a wicket was opened in the gate, and a man's head appeared in the
dim starlight.

'Nothing to-night,' said a voice.

'Bring a lantern,' said the Prince.

'Dear heart a' mercy!' cried the groom.  'Who's that?'

'It is I, the Prince,' replied Otto.  'Bring a lantern, take in the  mare, and let me through
into the garden.'

The man remained silent for a while, his head still projecting  through the wicket.

'His Highness!' he said at last.  'And why did your Highness knock  so strange?'

'It is a superstition in Mittwalden,' answered Otto, 'that it  cheapens corn.'

With a sound like a sob the groom fled.  He was very white when he  returned, even by the light
of the lantern; and his hand trembled as  he undid the fastenings and took the mare.

'Your Highness,' he began at last, 'for God's sake . . . . '  And  there he paused, oppressed
with guilt.

'For God's sake, what?' asked Otto cheerfully.  'For God's sake let  us have cheaper corn,
say I.  Good-night!'  And he strode off into  the garden, leaving the groom petrified once more.

The garden descended by a succession of stone terraces to the level  of the fish-pond.  On
the far side the ground rose again, and was  crowned by the confused roofs and gables of the
palace.  The modern  pillared front, the ball-room, the great library, the princely  apartments,
the busy and illuminated quarters of that great house,  all faced the town.  The garden side
was much older; and here it was  almost dark; only a few windows quietly lighted at various
elevations.  The great square tower rose, thinning by stages like a  telescope; and on the
top of all the flag hung motionless.

The garden, as it now lay in the dusk and glimmer of the starshine,  breathed of April violets.
Under night's cavern arch the shrubs  obscurely bustled.  Through the plotted terraces and
down the marble  stairs the Prince rapidly descended, fleeing before uncomfortable  thoughts.
But, alas! from these there is no city of refuge.  And  now, when he was about midway of the
descent, distant strains of  music began to fall upon his ear from the ball-room, where the
court  was dancing.  They reached him faint and broken, but they touched  the keys of memory;
and through and above them Otto heard the  ranting melody of the wood-merchants' song.  Mere
blackness seized  upon his mind.  Here he was, coming home; the wife was dancing, the  husband
had been playing a trick upon a lackey; and meanwhile, all  about them, they were a by-word
to their subjects.  Such a prince,  such a husband, such a man, as this Otto had become!  And
he sped  the faster onward.

Some way below he came unexpectedly upon a sentry; yet a little  farther, and he was challenged
by a second; and as he crossed the  bridge over the fish-pond, an officer making the rounds
stopped him  once more.  The parade of watch was more than usual; but curiosity  was dead in
Otto's mind, and he only chafed at the interruption.   The porter of the back postern admitted
him, and started to behold  him so disordered.  Thence, hasting by private stairs and passages,
he came at length unseen to his own chamber, tore off his clothes,  and threw himself upon
his bed in the dark.  The music of the ball- room still continued to a very lively measure;
and still, behind  that, he heard in spirit the chorus of the merchants clanking down  the hill.

BOOK II - OF LOVE AND POLITICS

CHAPTER I - WHAT HAPPENED IN THE LIBRARY

AT a quarter before six on the following morning Doctor Gotthold was  already at his desk in
the library; and with a small cup of black  coffee at his elbow, and an eye occasionally wandering
to the busts  and the long array of many-coloured books, was quietly reviewing the  labours
of the day before.  He was a man of about forty, flaxen- haired, with refined features a little
worn, and bright eyes  somewhat faded.  Early to bed and early to rise, his life was  devoted
to two things: erudition and Rhine wine.  An ancient  friendship existed latent between him
and Otto; they rarely met, but  when they did it was to take up at once the thread of their
suspended intimacy.  Gotthold, the virgin priest of knowledge, had  envied his cousin, for
half a day, when he was married; he had never  envied him his throne.

Reading was not a popular diversion at the court of Grunewald; and  that great, pleasant, sunshiny
gallery of books and statues was, in  practice, Gotthold's private cabinet.  On this particular
Wednesday  morning, however, he had not been long about his manuscript when a  door opened
and the Prince stepped into the apartment.  The doctor  watched him as he drew near, receiving,
from each of the embayed  windows in succession, a flush of morning sun; and Otto looked so
gay, and walked so airily, he was so well dressed and brushed and  frizzled, so point-device,
and of such a sovereign elegance, that  the heart of his cousin the recluse was rather moved
against him.

'Good-morning, Gotthold,' said Otto, dropping in a chair.

'Good-morning, Otto,' returned the librarian.  'You are an early  bird.  Is this an accident,
or do you begin reforming?'

'It is about time, I fancy,' answered the Prince.

'I cannot imagine,' said the Doctor.  'I am too sceptical to be an  ethical adviser; and as
for good resolutions, I believed in them  when I was young.  They are the colours of hope's
rainbow.'

'If you come to think of it,' said Otto, 'I am not a popular  sovereign.'  And with a look
he changed his statement to a question.

'Popular?  Well, there I would distinguish,' answered Gotthold,  leaning back and joining the
tips of his fingers.  'There are  various kinds of popularity; the bookish, which is perfectly
impersonal, as unreal as the nightmare; the politician's, a mixed  variety; and yours, which
is the most personal of all.  Women take  to you; footmen adore you; it is as natural to like
you as to pat a  dog; and were you a saw-miller you would be the most popular citizen  in Grunewald.
As a prince - well, you are in the wrong trade.  It  is perhaps philosophical to recognise
it as you do.'

'Perhaps philosophical?' repeated Otto.

'Yes, perhaps.  I would not be dogmatic,' answered Gotthold.

'Perhaps philosophical, and certainly not virtuous,' Otto resumed.

'Not of a Roman virtue,' chuckled the recluse.

Otto drew his chair nearer to the table, leaned upon it with his  elbow, and looked his cousin
squarely in the face.  'In short,' he  asked, 'not manly?'

'Well,' Gotthold hesitated, 'not manly, if you will.'  And then,  with a laugh, 'I did not
know that you gave yourself out to be  manly,' he added.  'It was one of the points that I
inclined to like  about you; inclined, I believe, to admire.  The names of virtues  exercise
a charm on most of us; we must lay claim to all of them,  however incompatible; we must all
be both daring and prudent; we  must all vaunt our pride and go to the stake for our humility.
Not  so you.  Without compromise you were yourself: a pretty sight.  I  have always said it:
none so void of all pretence as Otto.'

'Pretence and effort both!' cried Otto.  'A dead dog in a canal is  more alive.  And the question,
Gotthold, the question that I have to  face is this: Can I not, with effort and self-denial,
can I not  become a tolerable sovereign?'

'Never,' replied Gotthold.  'Dismiss the notion.  And besides, dear  child, you would not try.'

'Nay, Gotthold, I am not to be put by,' said Otto.  'If I am  constitutionally unfit to be
a sovereign, what am I doing with this  money, with this palace, with these guards?  And I
- a thief - am to  execute the law on others?'

'I admit the difficulty,' said Gotthold.

'Well, can I not try?' continued Otto.  'Am I not bound to try?  And  with the advice and help
of such a man as you - '

'Me!' cried the librarian.  'Now, God forbid!'

Otto, though he was in no very smiling humour, could not forbear to  smile.  'Yet I was told
last night,' he laughed, 'that with a man  like me to impersonate, and a man like you to touch
the springs, a  very possible government could be composed.'

'Now I wonder in what diseased imagination,' Gotthold said, 'that  preposterous monster saw
the light of day?'

'It was one of your own trade - a writer: one Roederer,' said Otto.

'Roederer! an ignorant puppy!' cried the librarian.

'You are ungrateful,' said Otto.  'He is one of your professed  admirers.'

'Is he?' cried Gotthold, obviously impressed.  'Come, that is a good  account of the young
man.  I must read his stuff again.  It is the  rather to his credit, as our views are opposite.
The east and west  are not more opposite.  Can I have converted him?  But no; the  incident
belongs to Fairyland.'

'You are not then,' asked the Prince, 'an authoritarian?'

'I?  God bless me, no!' said Gotthold.  'I am a red, dear child.'

'That brings me then to my next point, and by a natural transition.   If I am so clearly unfitted
for my post,' the Prince asked; 'if my  friends admit it, if my subjects clamour for my downfall,
if  revolution is preparing at this hour, must I not go forth to meet  the inevitable? should
I not save these horrors and be done with  these absurdities? in a word, should I not abdicate?
O, believe me,  I feel the ridicule, the vast abuse of language,' he added, wincing,  'but
even a principulus like me cannot resign; he must make a great  gesture, and come buskined
forth, and abdicate.'

'Ay,' said Gotthold, 'or else stay where he is.  What gnat has  bitten you to-day?  Do you
not know that you are touching, with lay  hands, the very holiest inwards of philosophy, where
madness dwells?   Ay, Otto, madness; for in the serene temples of the wise, the inmost  shrine,
which we carefully keep locked, is full of spiders' webs.   All men, all, are fundamentally
useless; nature tolerates, she does  not need, she does not use them: sterile flowers!  All
- down to the  fellow swinking in a byre, whom fools point out for the exception -  all are
useless; all weave ropes of sand; or like a child that has  breathed on a window, write and
obliterate, write and obliterate,  idle words!  Talk of it no more.  That way, I tell you,
madness  lies.'  The speaker rose from his chair and then sat down again.  He  laughed a little
laugh, and then, changing his tone, resumed: 'Yes,  dear child, we are not here to do battle
with giants; we are here to  be happy like the flowers, if we can be.  It is because you could,
that I have always secretly admired you.  Cling to that trade;  believe me, it is the right
one.  Be happy, be idle, be airy.  To  the devil with all casuistry! and leave the state to
Gondremark, as  heretofore.  He does it well enough, they say; and his vanity enjoys  the situation.'

'Gotthold,' cried Otto, 'what is this to me?  Useless is not the  question; I cannot rest at
uselessness; I must be useful or I must  be noxious - one or other.  I grant you the whole
thing, prince and  principality alike, is pure absurdity, a stroke of satire; and that  a banker
or the man who keeps an inn has graver duties.  But now,  when I have washed my hands of it
three years, and left all -  labour, responsibility, and honour and enjoyment too, if there
be  any - to Gondremark and to - Seraphina - '  He hesitated at the  name, and Gotthold glanced
aside.  'Well,' the Prince continued,  'what has come of it?  Taxes, army, cannon - why, it's
like a box of  lead soldiers!  And the people sick at the folly of it, and fired  with the
injustice!  And war, too - I hear of war - war in this  teapot!  What a complication of absurdity
and disgrace!  And when  the inevitable end arrives - the revolution - who will be to blame
in the sight of God, who will be gibbeted in public opinion?  I!   Prince Puppet!'

'I thought you had despised public opinion,' said Gotthold.

'I did,' said Otto sombrely, 'but now I do not.  I am growing old.   And then, Gotthold, there
is Seraphina.  She is loathed in this  country that I brought her to and suffered her to spoil.
Yes, I  gave it her as a plaything, and she has broken it: a fine Prince, an  admirable Princess!
Even her life - I ask you, Gotthold, is her  life safe?'

'It is safe enough to-day,' replied the librarian: 'but since you  ask me seriously, I would
not answer for to-morrow.  She is ill- advised.'

'And by whom?  By this Gondremark, to whom you counsel me to leave  my country,' cried the
Prince.  'Rare advice!  The course that I  have been following all these years, to come at
last to this.  O,  ill-advised! if that were all!  See now, there is no sense in  beating about
the bush between two men: you know what scandal says  of her?'

Gotthold, with pursed lips, silently nodded.

'Well, come, you are not very cheering as to my conduct as the  Prince; have I even done my
duty as a husband?' Otto asked.

'Nay, nay,' said Gotthold, earnestly and eagerly, 'this is another  chapter.  I am an old celibate,
an old monk.  I cannot advise you in  your marriage.'

'Nor do I require advice,' said Otto, rising.  'All of this must  cease.'  And he began to
walk to and fro with his hands behind his  back.

'Well, Otto, may God guide you!' said Gotthold, after a considerable  silence.  'I cannot.'

'From what does all this spring?' said the Prince, stopping in his  walk.  'What am I to call
it?  Diffidence?  The fear of ridicule?   Inverted vanity?  What matter names, if it has brought
me to this?   I could never bear to be bustling about nothing; I was ashamed of  this toy kingdom
from the first; I could not tolerate that people  should fancy I believed in a thing so patently
absurd!  I would do  nothing that cannot be done smiling.  I have a sense of humour,  forsooth!
I must know better than my Maker.  And it was the same  thing in my marriage,' he added more
hoarsely.  'I did not believe  this girl could care for me; I must not intrude; I must preserve
the  foppery of my indifference.  What an impotent picture!'

'Ay, we have the same blood,' moralised Gotthold.  'You are drawing,  with fine strokes, the
character of the born sceptic.'

'Sceptic? - coward!' cried Otto.  'Coward is the word.  A  springless, putty-hearted, cowering
coward!'

And as the Prince rapped out the words in tones of unusual vigour, a  little, stout, old gentleman,
opening a door behind Gotthold,  received them fairly in the face.  With his parrot's beak
for a  nose, his pursed mouth, his little goggling eyes, he was the picture  of formality;
and in ordinary circumstances, strutting behind the  drum of his corporation, he impressed
the beholder with a certain  air of frozen dignity and wisdom.  But at the smallest contrariety,
his trembling hands and disconnected gestures betrayed the weakness  at the root.  And now,
when he was thus surprisingly received in  that library of Mittwalden Palace, which was the
customary haunt of  silence, his hands went up into the air as if he had been shot, and  he
cried aloud with the scream of an old woman.

'O!' he gasped, recovering, 'Your Highness!  I beg ten thousand  pardons.  But your Highness
at such an hour in the library! - a  circumstance so unusual as your Highness's presence was
a thing I  could not be expected to foresee.'

'There is no harm done, Herr Cancellarius,' said Otto.

'I came upon the errand of a moment: some papers I left over-night  with the Herr Doctor,'
said the Chancellor of Grunewald.  'Herr  Doctor, if you will kindly give me them, I will intrude
no longer.'

Gotthold unlocked a drawer and handed a bundle of manuscript to the  old gentleman, who prepared,
with fitting salutations, to take his  departure.

'Herr Greisengesang, since we have met,' said Otto, 'let us talk.'

'I am honoured by his Highness's commands,' replied the Chancellor.

'All has been quiet since I left?' asked the Prince, resuming his  seat.

'The usual business, your Highness,' answered Greisengesang;  'punctual trifles: huge, indeed,
if neglected, but trifles when  discharged.  Your Highness is most zealously obeyed.'

'Obeyed, Herr Cancellarius?' returned the Prince.  'And when have I  obliged you with an order?
Replaced, let us rather say.  But to  touch upon these trifles; instance me a few.'

'The routine of government, from which your Highness has so wisely  dissociated his leisure
. . . ' began Greisengesang.

'We will leave my leisure, sir,' said Otto.  'Approach the facts.'

'The routine of business was proceeded with,' replied the official,  now visibly twittering.

'It is very strange, Herr Cancellarius, that you should so  persistently avoid my questions,'
said the Prince.  'You tempt me to  suppose a purpose in your dulness.  I have asked you whether
all was  quiet; do me the pleasure to reply.'

'Perfectly - O, perfectly quiet,' jerked the ancient puppet, with  every signal of untruth.

'I make a note of these words,' said the Prince gravely.  'You  assure me, your sovereign,
that since the date of my departure  nothing has occurred of which you owe me an account.'

'I take your Highness, I take the Herr Doctor to witness,' cried  Greisengesang, 'that I have
had no such expression.'

'Halt!' said the Prince; and then, after a pause: 'Herr  Greisengesang, you are an old man,
and you served my father before  you served me,' he added.  'It consists neither with your
dignity  nor mine that you should babble excuses and stumble possibly upon  untruths.  Collect
your thoughts; and then categorically inform me  of all you have been charged to hide.'

Gotthold, stooping very low over his desk, appeared to have resumed  his labours; but his shoulders
heaved with subterranean merriment.   The Prince waited, drawing his handkerchief quietly through
his  fingers.

'Your Highness, in this informal manner,' said the old gentleman at  last, 'and being unavoidably
deprived of documents, it would be  difficult, it would be impossible, to do justice to the
somewhat  grave occurrences which have transpired.'

'I will not criticise your attitude,' replied the Prince.  'I desire  that, between you and
me, all should be done gently; for I have not  forgotten, my old friend, that you were kind
to me from the first,  and for a period of years a faithful servant.  I will thus dismiss 
the matters on which you waive immediate inquiry.  But you have  certain papers actually in
your hand.  Come, Herr Greisengesang,  there is at least one point for which you have authority.
Enlighten  me on that.'

'On that?' cried the old gentleman.  'O, that is a trifle; a matter,  your Highness, of police;
a detail of a purely administrative order.   These are simply a selection of the papers seized
upon the English  traveller.'

'Seized?' echoed Otto.  'In what sense?  Explain yourself.'

'Sir John Crabtree,' interposed Gotthold, looking up, 'was arrested  yesterday evening.'

'It this so, Herr Cancellarius?' demanded Otto sternly.

'It was judged right, your Highness,' protested Greisengesang.  'The  decree was in due form,
invested with your Highness's authority by  procuration.  I am but an agent; I had no status
to prevent the  measure.'

'This man, my guest, has been arrested,' said the Prince.  'On what  grounds, sir?  With what
colour of pretence?'

The Chancellor stammered.

'Your Highness will perhaps find the reason in these documents,'  said Gotthold, pointing with
the tail of his pen.

Otto thanked his cousin with a look.  'Give them to me,' he said,  addressing the Chancellor.

But that gentleman visibly hesitated to obey.  'Baron von  Gondremark,' he said, 'has made
the affair his own.  I am in this  case a mere messenger; and as such, I am not clothed with
any  capacity to communicate the documents I carry.  Herr Doctor, I am  convinced you will
not fail to bear me out.'

'I have heard a great deal of nonsense,' said Gotthold, 'and most of  it from you; but this
beats all.'

'Come, sir,' said Otto, rising, 'the papers.  I command.'

Herr Greisengesang instantly gave way.

'With your Highness's permission,' he said, 'and laying at his feet  my most submiss apologies,
I will now hasten to attend his further  orders in the Chancery.'

'Herr Cancellarius, do you see this chair?' said Otto.  'There is  where you shall attend my
further orders.  O, now, no more!' he  cried, with a gesture, as the old man opened his lips.
'You have  sufficiently marked your zeal to your employer; and I begin to weary  of a moderation
you abuse.'

The Chancellor moved to the appointed chair and took his seat in  silence.

'And now,' said Otto, opening the roll, 'what is all this? it looks  like the manuscript of
a book.'

'It is,' said Gotthold, 'the manuscript of a book of travels.'

'You have read it, Doctor Hohenstockwitz?' asked the Prince.

'Nay, I but saw the title-page,' replied Gotthold.  'But the roll  was given to me open, and
I heard no word of any secrecy.'

Otto dealt the Chancellor an angry glance.

'I see,' he went on.  'The papers of an author seized at this date  of the world's history,
in a state so petty and so ignorant as  Grunewald, here is indeed an ignominious folly.  Sir,'
to the  Chancellor, 'I marvel to find you in so scurvy an employment.  On  your conduct to
your Prince I will not dwell; but to descend to be a  spy!  For what else can it be called?
To seize the papers of this  gentleman, the private papers of a stranger, the toil of a life,
perhaps - to open, and to read them.  And what have we to do with  books?  The Herr Doctor
might perhaps be asked for his advice; but  we have no INDEX EXPURGATORIUS in Grunewald.  Had
we but that, we  should be the most absolute parody and farce upon this tawdry  earth.'

Yet, even while Otto spoke, he had continued to unfold the roll; and  now, when it lay fully
open, his eye rested on the title-page  elaborately written in red ink.  It ran thus:

MEMOIRS OF A VISIT TO THE VARIOUS COURTS OF EUROPE, BY SIR JOHN CRABTREE, BARONET.

Below was a list of chapters, each bearing the name of one of the  European Courts; and among
these the nineteenth and the last upon  the list was dedicated to Grunewald.

'Ah!  The Court of Grunewald!' said Otto, 'that should be droll  reading.'  And his curiosity
itched for it.

'A methodical dog, this English Baronet,' said Gotthold.  'Each  chapter written and finished
on the spot.  I shall look for his work  when it appears.'

'It would be odd, now, just to glance at it,' said Otto, wavering.

Gotthold's brow darkened, and he looked out of window.

But though the Prince understood the reproof, his weakness  prevailed.  'I will,' he said,
with an uneasy laugh, 'I will, I  think, just glance at it.'

So saying, he resumed his seat and spread the traveller's manuscript  upon the table.

CHAPTER II - 'ON THE COURT OF GRUNEWALD,' BEING A PORTION OF THE  TRAVELLER'S MANUSCRIPT

IT may well be asked (IT WAS THUS THE ENGLISH TRAVELLER BEGAN HIS  NINETEENTH CHAPTER) why
I should have chosen Grunewald out of so  many other states equally petty, formal, dull, and
corrupt.   Accident, indeed, decided, and not I; but I have seen no reason to  regret my visit.
The spectacle of this small society macerating in  its own abuses was not perhaps instructive,
but I have found it  exceedingly diverting.

The reigning Prince, Otto Johann Friedrich, a young man of imperfect  education, questionable
valour, and no scintilla of capacity, has  fallen into entire public contempt.  It was with
difficulty that I  obtained an interview, for he is frequently absent from a court  where his
presence is unheeded, and where his only role is to be a  cloak for the amours of his wife.
At last, however, on the third  occasion when I visited the palace, I found this sovereign
in the  exercise of his inglorious function, with the wife on one hand, and  the lover on the
other.  He is not ill-looking; he has hair of a  ruddy gold, which naturally curls, and his
eyes are dark, a  combination which I always regard as the mark of some congenital  deficiency,
physical or moral; his features are irregular, but  pleasing; the nose perhaps a little short,
and the mouth a little  womanish; his address is excellent, and he can express himself with
point.  But to pierce below these externals is to come on a vacuity  of any sterling quality,
a deliquescence of the moral nature, a  frivolity and inconsequence of purpose that mark the
nearly perfect  fruit of a decadent age.  He has a worthless smattering of many  subjects,
but a grasp of none.  'I soon weary of a pursuit,' he said  to me, laughing; it would almost
appear as if he took a pride in his  incapacity and lack of moral courage.  The results of
his  dilettanteism are to be seen in every field; he is a bad fencer, a  second-rate horseman,
dancer, shot; he sings - I have heard him -  and he sings like a child; he writes intolerable
verses in more than  doubtful French; he acts like the common amateur; and in short there 
is no end to the number of the things that he does, and does badly.   His one manly taste is
for the chase.  In sum, he is but a plexus of  weaknesses; the singing chambermaid of the stage,
tricked out in  man's apparel, and mounted on a circus horse.  I have seen this poor  phantom
of a prince riding out alone or with a few huntsmen,  disregarded by all, and I have been even
grieved for the bearer of  so futile and melancholy an existence.  The last Merovingians may
have looked not otherwise.

The Princess Amalia Seraphina, a daughter of the Grand-Ducal house  of Toggenburg-Tannhauser,
would be equally inconsiderable if she  were not a cutting instrument in the hands of an ambitious
man.  She  is much younger than the Prince, a girl of two-and-twenty, sick with  vanity, superficially
clever, and fundamentally a fool.  She has a  red-brown rolling eye, too large for her face,
and with sparks of  both levity and ferocity; her forehead is high and narrow, her  figure
thin and a little stooping.  Her manners, her conversation,  which she interlards with French,
her very tastes and ambitions, are  alike assumed; and the assumption is ungracefully apparent:
Hoyden  playing Cleopatra.  I should judge her to be incapable of truth.  In  private life
a girl of this description embroils the peace of  families, walks attended by a troop of scowling
swains, and passes,  once at least, through the divorce court; it is a common and, except 
to the cynic, an uninteresting type.  On the throne, however, and in  the hands of a man like
Gondremark, she may become the authoress of  serious public evils.

Gondremark, the true ruler of this unfortunate country, is a more  complex study.  His position
in Grunewald, to which he is a  foreigner, is eminently false; and that he should maintain
it as he  does, a very miracle of impudence and dexterity.  His speech, his  face, his policy,
are all double: heads and tails.  Which of the two  extremes may be his actual design he were
a bold man who should  offer to decide.  Yet I will hazard the guess that he follows both 
experimentally, and awaits, at the hand of destiny, one of those  directing hints of which
she is so lavish to the wise.

On the one hand, as MAIRE DU PALAIS to the incompetent Otto, and  using the love-sick Princess
for a tool and mouthpiece, he pursues a  policy of arbitrary power and territorial aggrandisement.
He has  called out the whole capable male population of the state to  military service; he
has bought cannon; he has tempted away  promising officers from foreign armies; and he now
begins, in his  international relations, to assume the swaggering port and the  vague, threatful
language of a bully.  The idea of extending  Grunewald may appear absurd, but the little state
is advantageously  placed, its neighbours are all defenceless; and if at any moment the  jealousies
of the greater courts should neutralise each other, an  active policy might double the principality
both in population and  extent.  Certainly at least the scheme is entertained in the court
of Mittwalden; nor do I myself regard it as entirely desperate.  The  margravate of Brandenburg
has grown from as small beginnings to a  formidable power; and though it is late in the day
to try  adventurous policies, and the age of war seems ended, Fortune, we  must not forget,
still blindly turns her wheel for men and nations.   Concurrently with, and tributary to, these
warlike preparations,  crushing taxes have been levied, journals have been suppressed, and
the country, which three years ago was prosperous and happy, now  stagnates in a forced inaction,
gold has become a curiosity, and the  mills stand idle on the mountain streams.

On the other hand, in his second capacity of popular tribune,  Gondremark- is the incarnation
of the free lodges, and sits at the  centre of an organised conspiracy against the state. 
To any such  movement my sympathies were early acquired, and I would not  willingly let fall
a word that might embarrass or retard the  revolution.  But to show that I speak of knowledge,
and not as the  reporter of mere gossip, I may mention that I have myself been  present at
a meeting where the details of a republican Constitution  were minutely debated and arranged;
and I may add that Gondremark  was throughout referred to by the speakers as their captain
in  action and the arbiter of their disputes.  He has taught his dupes  (for so I must regard
them) that his power of resistance to the  Princess is limited, and at each fresh stretch of
authority  persuades them, with specious reasons, to postpone the hour of  insurrection.  Thus
(to give some instances of his astute diplomacy)  he salved over the decree enforcing military
service, under the plea  that to be well drilled and exercised in arms was even a necessary
preparation for revolt.  And the other day, when it began to be  rumoured abroad that a war
was being forced on a reluctant  neighbour, the Grand Duke of Gerolstein, and I made sure it
would be  the signal for an instant rising, I was struck dumb with wonder to  find that even
this had been prepared and was to be accepted.  I  went from one to another in the Liberal
camp, and all were in the  same story, all had been drilled and schooled and fitted out with
vacuous argument.  'The lads had better see some real fighting,'  they said; 'and besides,
it will be as well to capture Gerolstein:  we can then extend to our neighbours the blessing
of liberty on the  same day that we snatch it for ourselves; and the republic will be  all
the stronger to resist, if the kings of Europe should band  themselves together to reduce it.'
I know not which of the two I  should admire the more: the simplicity of the multitude or the
audacity of the adventurer.  But such are the subtleties, such the  quibbling reasons, with
which he blinds and leads this people.  How  long a course so tortuous can be pursued with
safety I am incapable  of guessing; not long, one would suppose; and yet this singular man
has been treading the mazes for five years, and his favour at court  and his popularity among
the lodges still endure unbroken.

I have the privilege of slightly knowing him.  Heavily and somewhat  clumsily built, of a vast,
disjointed, rambling frame, he can still  pull himself together, and figure, not without admiration,
in the  saloon or the ball-room.  His hue and temperament are plentifully  bilious; he has
a saturnine eye; his cheek is of a dark blue where  he has been shaven.  Essentially he is
to be numbered among the man- haters, a convinced contemner of his fellows.  Yet he is himself
of  a commonplace ambition and greedy of applause.  In talk, he is  remarkable for a thirst
of information, loving rather to hear than  to communicate; for sound and studious views; and,
judging by the  extreme short-sightedness of common politicians, for a remarkable  provision
of events.  All this, however, without grace, pleasantry,  or charm, heavily set forth, with
a dull countenance.  In our  numerous conversations, although he has always heard me with 
deference, I have been conscious throughout of a sort of ponderous  finessing hard to tolerate.
He produces none of the effect of a  gentleman; devoid not merely of pleasantry, but of all
attention or  communicative warmth of bearing.  No gentleman, besides, would so  parade his
amours with the Princess; still less repay the Prince for  his long-suffering with a studied
insolence of demeanour and the  fabrication of insulting nicknames, such as Prince Featherhead,
which run from ear to ear and create a laugh throughout the country.   Gondremark has thus
some of the clumsier characters of the self-made  man, combined with an inordinate, almost
a besotted, pride of  intellect and birth.  Heavy, bilious, selfish, inornate, he sits  upon
this court and country like an incubus.

But it is probable that he preserves softer gifts for necessary  purposes.  Indeed, it is certain,
although he vouchsafed none of it  to me, that this cold and stolid politician possesses to
a great  degree the art of ingratiation, and can be all things to all men.   Hence there has
probably sprung up the idle legend that in private  life he is a gross romping voluptuary.
Nothing, at least, can well  be more surprising than the terms of his connection with the 
Princess.  Older than her husband, certainly uglier, and, according  to the feeble ideas common
among women, in every particular less  pleasing, he has not only seized the complete command
of all her  thought and action, but has imposed on her in public a humiliating  part.  I do
not here refer to the complete sacrifice of every rag of  her reputation; for to many women
these extremities are in  themselves attractive.  But there is about the court a certain lady
of a dishevelled reputation, a Countess von Rosen, wife or widow of  a cloudy count, no longer
in her second youth, and already bereft of  some of her attractions, who unequivocally occupies
the station of  the Baron's mistress.  I had thought, at first, that she was but a  hired accomplice,
a mere blind or buffer for the more important  sinner.  A few hours' acquaintance with Madame
von Rosen for ever  dispelled the illusion.  She is one rather to make than to prevent a  scandal,
and she values none of those bribes - money, honours, or  employment - with which the situation
might be gilded.  Indeed, as a  person frankly bad, she pleased me, in the court of Grunewald,
like  a piece of nature.

The power of this man over the Princess is, therefore, without  bounds.  She has sacrificed
to the adoration with which he has  inspired her not only her marriage vow and every shred
of public  decency, but that vice of jealousy which is so much dearer to the  female sex than
either intrinsic honour or outward consideration.   Nay, more: a young, although not a very
attractive woman, and a  princess both by birth and fact, she submits to the triumphant  rivalry
of one who might be her mother as to years, and who is so  manifestly her inferior in station.
This is one of the mysteries of  the human heart.  But the rage of illicit love, when it is
once  indulged, appears to grow by feeding; and to a person of the  character and temperament
of this unfortunate young lady, almost any  depth of degradation is within the reach of possibility.

CHAPTER III - THE PRINCE AND THE ENGLISH TRAVELLER

So far Otto read, with waxing indignation; and here his fury  overflowed.  He tossed the roll
upon the table and stood up.  'This  man,' he said, 'is a devil.  A filthy imagination, an
ear greedy of  evil, a ponderous malignity of thought and language: I grow like him  by the
reading!  Chancellor, where is this fellow lodged?'

'He was committed to the Flag Tower,' replied Greisengesang, 'in the  Gamiani apartment.'

'Lead me to him,' said the Prince; and then, a thought striking him,  'Was it for that,' he
asked, 'that I found so many sentries in the  garden?'

'Your Highness, I am unaware,' answered Greisengesang, true to his  policy.  'The disposition
of the guards is a matter distinct from my  functions.'

Otto turned upon the old man fiercely, but ere he had time to speak,  Gotthold touched him
on the arm.  He swallowed his wrath with a  great effort.  'It is well,' he said, taking the
roll.  'Follow me  to the Flag Tower.'

The Chancellor gathered himself together, and the two set forward.   It was a long and complicated
voyage; for the library was in the  wing of the new buildings, and the tower which carried
the flag was  in the old schloss upon the garden.  By a great variety of stairs  and corridors,
they came out at last upon a patch of gravelled  court; the garden peeped through a high grating
with a flash of  green; tall, old gabled buildings mounted on every side; the Flag  Tower climbed,
stage after stage, into the blue; and high over all,  among the building daws, the yellow flag
wavered in the wind.  A  sentinel at the foot of the tower stairs presented arms; another 
paced the first landing; and a third was stationed before the door  of the extemporised prison.

'We guard this mud-bag like a jewel,' Otto sneered.

The Gamiani apartment was so called from an Italian doctor who had  imposed on the credulity
of a former prince.  The rooms were large,  airy, pleasant, and looked upon the garden; but
the walls were of  great thickness (for the tower was old), and the windows were  heavily barred.
The Prince, followed by the Chancellor, still  trotting to keep up with him, brushed swiftly
through the little  library and the long saloon, and burst like a thunderbolt into the  bedroom
at the farther end.  Sir John was finishing his toilet; a  man of fifty, hard, uncompromising,
able, with the eye and teeth of  physical courage.  He was unmoved by the irruption, and bowed
with a  sort of sneering ease.

'To what am I to attribute the honour of this visit?' he asked.

'You have eaten my bread,' replied Otto, 'you have taken my hand,  you have been received under
my roof.  When did I fail you in  courtesy?  What have you asked that was not granted as to
an  honoured guest?  And here, sir,' tapping fiercely on the manuscript,  'here is your return.'

'Your Highness has read my papers?' said the Baronet.  'I am  honoured indeed.  But the sketch
is most imperfect.  I shall now  have much to add.  I can say that the Prince, whom I had accused
of  idleness, is zealous in the department of police, taking upon  himself those duties that
are most distasteful.  I shall be able to  relate the burlesque incident of my arrest, and
the singular  interview with which you honour me at present.  For the rest, I have  already
communicated with my Ambassador at Vienna; and unless you  propose to murder me, I shall be
at liberty, whether you please or  not, within the week.  For I hardly fancy the future empire
of  Grunewald is yet ripe to go to war with England.  I conceive I am a  little more than quits.
I owe you no explanation; yours has been  the wrong.  You, if you have studied my writing with
intelligence,  owe me a large debt of gratitude.  And to conclude, as I have not  yet finished
my toilet, I imagine the courtesy of a turnkey to a  prisoner would induce you to withdraw.'

There was some paper on the table, and Otto, sitting down, wrote a  passport in the name of
Sir John Crabtree.

'Affix the seal, Herr Cancellarius,' he said, in his most princely  manner, as he rose.

Greisengesang produced a red portfolio, and affixed the seal in the  unpoetic guise of an adhesive
stamp; nor did his perturbed and  clumsy movements at all lessen the comedy of the performance.
Sir  John looked on with a malign enjoyment; and Otto chafed, regretting,  when too late, the
unnecessary royalty of his command and gesture.   But at length the Chancellor had finished
his piece of  prestidigitation, and, without waiting for an order, had  countersigned the passport.
Thus regularised, he returned it to  Otto with a bow.

'You will now,' said the Prince, 'order one of my own carriages to  be prepared; see it, with
your own eyes, charged with Sir John's  effects, and have it waiting within the hour behind
the Pheasant  House.  Sir John departs this morning for Vienna.'

The Chancellor took his elaborate departure.

'Here, sir, is your passport,' said Otto, turning to the Baronet.   'I regret it from my heart
that you have met inhospitable usage.'

'Well, there will be no English war,' returned Sir John.

'Nay, sir,' said Otto, 'you surely owe me your civility.  Matters  are now changed, and we
stand again upon the footing of two  gentlemen.  It was not I who ordered your arrest; I returned
late  last night from hunting; and as you cannot blame me for your  imprisonment, you may even
thank me for your freedom.'

'And yet you read my papers,' said the traveller shrewdly.

'There, sir, I was wrong,' returned Otto; 'and for that I ask your  pardon.  You can scarce
refuse it, for your own dignity, to one who  is a plexus of weaknesses.  Nor was the fault
entirely mine.  Had  the papers been innocent, it would have been at most an  indiscretion.
Your own guilt is the sting of my offence.'

Sir John regarded Otto with an approving twinkle; then he bowed, but  still in silence.

'Well, sir, as you are now at your entire disposal, I have a favour  to beg of your indulgence,'
continued the Prince.  'I have to  request that you will walk with me alone into the garden
so soon as  your convenience permits.'

'From the moment that I am a free man,' Sir John replied, this time  with perfect courtesy,
'I am wholly at your Highness's command; and  if you will excuse a rather summary toilet, I
will even follow you,  as I am.'

'I thank you, sir,' said Otto.

So without more delay, the Prince leading, the pair proceeded down  through the echoing stairway
of the tower, and out through the  grating, into the ample air and sunshine of the morning,
and among  the terraces and flower-beds of the garden.  They crossed the fish- pond, where
the carp were leaping as thick as bees; they mounted,  one after another, the various flights
of stairs, snowed upon, as  they went, with April blossoms, and marching in time to the great
orchestra of birds.  Nor did Otto pause till they had reached the  highest terrace of the garden.
Here was a gate into the park, and  hard by, under a tuft of laurel, a marble garden seat.
Hence they  looked down on the green tops of many elm-trees, where the rooks  were busy; and,
beyond that, upon the palace roof, and the yellow  banner flying in the blue.  I pray you to
be seated, sir,' said  Otto.

Sir John complied without a word; and for some seconds Otto walked  to and fro before him,
plunged in angry thought.  The birds were all  singing for a wager.

'Sir,' said the Prince at length, turning towards the Englishman,  'you are to me, except by
the conventions of society, a perfect  stranger.  Of your character and wishes I am ignorant.
I have never  wittingly disobliged you.  There is a difference in station, which I  desire
to waive.  I would, if you still think me entitled to so much  consideration - I would be regarded
simply as a gentleman.  Now,  sir, I did wrong to glance at these papers, which I here return
to  you; but if curiosity be undignified, as I am free to own, falsehood  is both cowardly
and cruel.  I opened your roll; and what did I find  - what did I find about my wife; Lies!'
he broke out.  'They are  lies!  There are not, so help me God! four words of truth in your
intolerable libel!  You are a man; you are old, and might be the  girl's father; you are a
gentleman; you are a scholar, and have  learned refinement; and you rake together all this
vulgar scandal,  and propose to print it in a public book!  Such is your chivalry!   But, thank
God, sir, she has still a husband.  You say, sir, in that  paper in your hand, that I am a
bad fencer; I have to request from  you a lesson in the art.  The park is close behind; yonder
is the  Pheasant House, where you will find your carriage; should I fall,  you know, sir -
you have written it in your paper - how little my  movements are regarded; I am in the custom
of disappearing; it will  be one more disappearance; and long before it has awakened a remark,
you may be safe across the border.'

'You will observe,' said Sir John, 'that what you ask is  impossible.'

'And if I struck you?' cried the Prince, with a sudden menacing  flash.

'It would be a cowardly blow,' returned the Baronet, unmoved, 'for  it would make no change.
I cannot draw upon a reigning sovereign.'

'And it is this man, to whom you dare not offer satisfaction, that  you choose to insult!'
cried Otto.

'Pardon me,' said the traveller, 'you are unjust.  It is because you  are a reigning sovereign
that I cannot fight with you; and it is for  the same reason that I have a right to criticise
your action and  your wife.  You are in everything a public creature; you belong to  the public,
body and bone.  You have with you the law, the muskets  of the army, and the eyes of spies.
We, on our side, have but one  weapon - truth.'

'Truth!' echoed the Prince, with a gesture.

There was another silence.

'Your Highness,' said Sir John at last, 'you must not expect grapes  from a thistle.  I am
old and a cynic.  Nobody cares a rush for me;  and on the whole, after the present interview,
I scarce know anybody  that I like better than yourself.  You see, I have changed my mind,
and have the uncommon virtue to avow the change.  I tear up this  stuff before you, here in
your own garden; I ask your pardon, I ask  the pardon of the Princess; and I give you my word
of honour as a  gentleman and an old man, that when my book of travels shall appear  it shall
not contain so much as the name of Grunewald.  And yet it  was a racy chapter!  But had your
Highness only read about the other  courts!  I am a carrion crow; but it is not my fault, after
all,  that the world is such a nauseous kennel.'

'Sir,' said Otto, 'is the eye not jaundiced?'

'Nay,' cried the traveller, 'very likely.  I am one who goes  sniffing; I am no poet.  I believe
in a better future for the world;  or, at all accounts, I do most potently disbelieve in the
present.   Rotten eggs is the burthen of my song.  But indeed, your Highness,  when I meet
with any merit, I do not think that I am slow to  recognise it.  This is a day that I shall
still recall with  gratitude, for I have found a sovereign with some manly virtues; and  for
once - old courtier and old radical as I am - it is from the  heart and quite sincerely that
I can request the honour of kissing  your Highness's hand?'

'Nay, sir,' said Otto, 'to my heart!'

And the Englishman, taken at unawares, was clasped for a moment in  the Prince's arms.

'And now, sir,' added Otto, 'there is the Pheasant House; close  behind it you will find my
carriage, which I pray you to accept.   God speed you to Vienna!'

'In the impetuosity of youth,' replied Sir John, 'your Highness has  overlooked one circumstance.
I am still fasting.'

'Well, sir,' said Otto, smiling, 'you are your own master; you may  go or stay.  But I warn
you, your friend may prove less powerful  than your enemies.  The Prince, indeed, is thoroughly
on your side;  he has all the will to help; but to whom do I speak? - you know  better than
I do, he is not alone in Grunewald.'

'There is a deal in position,' returned the traveller, gravely  nodding.  'Gondremark loves
to temporise; his policy is below  ground, and he fears all open courses; and now that I have
seen you  act with so much spirit, I will cheerfully risk myself on your  protection.  Who
knows?  You may be yet the better man.'

'Do you indeed believe so?' cried the Prince.  'You put life into my  heart!'

'I will give up sketching portraits,' said the Baronet.  'I am a  blind owl; I had misread
you strangely.  And yet remember this; a  sprint is one thing, and to run all day another.
For I still  mistrust your constitution; the short nose, the hair and eyes of  several complexions;
no, they are diagnostic; and I must end, I see,  as I began.'

'I am still a singing chambermaid?' said Otto.

'Nay, your Highness, I pray you to forget what I had written,' said  Sir John; 'I am not like
Pilate; and the chapter is no more.  Bury  it, if you love me.'

CHAPTER IV - WHILE THE PRINCE IS IN THE ANTE-ROOM . . .

GREATLY comforted by the exploits of the morning, the Prince turned  towards the Princess's
ante-room, bent on a more difficult  enterprise.  The curtains rose before him, the usher called
his  name, and he entered the room with an exaggeration of his usual  mincing and airy dignity.
There were about a score of persons  waiting, principally ladies; it was one of the few societies
in  Grunewald where Otto knew himself to be popular; and while a maid of  honour made her exit
by a side door to announce his arrival to the  Princess, he moved round the apartment, collecting
homage and  bestowing compliments with friendly grace.  Had this been the sum of  his duties,
he had been an admirable monarch.  Lady after lady was  impartially honoured by his attention.

'Madam,' he said to one, 'how does this happen?  I find you daily  more adorable.'

'And your Highness daily browner,' replied the lady.  'We began  equal; O, there I will be
bold: we have both beautiful complexions.   But while I study mine, your Highness tans himself.'

'A perfect negro, madam; and what so fitly - being beauty's slave?'  said Otto. - 'Madame Grafinski,
when is our next play?  I have just  heard that I am a bad actor.'

'O CIEL!' cried Madame Grafinski.  'Who could venture?  What a  bear!'

'An excellent man, I can assure you,' returned Otto.

'O, never!  O, is it possible!' fluted the lady.  'Your Highness  plays like an angel.'

'You must be right, madam; who could speak falsely and yet look so  charming?' said the Prince.
'But this gentleman, it seems, would  have preferred me playing like an actor.'

A sort of hum, a falsetto, feminine cooing, greeted the tiny sally;  and Otto expanded like
a peacock.  This warm atmosphere of women and  flattery and idle chatter pleased him to the marrow.

'Madame von Eisenthal, your coiffure is delicious,' he remarked.

'Every one was saying so,' said one.

'If I have pleased Prince Charming?'  And Madame von Eisenthal swept  him a deep curtsy with
a killing glance of adoration.

'It is new?' he asked.  'Vienna fashion.'

'Mint new,' replied the lady, 'for your Highness's return.  I felt  young this morning; it
was a premonition.  But why, Prince, do you  ever leave us?'

'For the pleasure of the return,' said Otto.  'I am like a dog; I  must bury my bone, and then
come back to great upon it.'

'O, a bone!  Fie, what a comparison!  You have brought back the  manners of the wood,' returned
the lady.

'Madam, it is what the dog has dearest,' said the Prince.  'But I  observe Madame von Rosen.'

And Otto, leaving the group to which he had been piping, stepped  towards the embrasure of
a window where a lady stood.

The Countess von Rosen had hitherto been silent, and a thought  depressed, but on the approach
of Otto she began to brighten.  She  was tall, slim as a nymph, and of a very airy carriage;
and her  face, which was already beautiful in repose, lightened and changed,  flashed into
smiles, and glowed with lovely colour at the touch of  animation.  She was a good vocalist;
and, even in speech, her voice  commanded a great range of changes, the low notes rich with
tenor  quality, the upper ringing, on the brink of laughter, into music.  A  gem of many facets
and variable hues of fire; a woman who withheld  the better portion of her beauty, and then,
in a caressing second,  flashed it like a weapon full on the beholder; now merely a tall  figure
and a sallow handsome face, with the evidences of a reckless  temper; anon opening like a flower
to life and colour, mirth and  tenderness:- Madame von Rosen had always a dagger in reserve
for the  despatch of ill-assured admirers.  She met Otto with the dart of  tender gaiety.

 'You have come to me at last, Prince Cruel,' she said.  'Butterfly!  
Well, and am I not to kiss your hand?' she added.

'Madam, it is I who must kiss yours.'  And Otto bowed and kissed it.

'You deny me every indulgence,' she said, smiling.

'And now what news in Court?' inquired the Prince.  'I come to you  for my gazette.'

'Ditch-water!' she replied.  'The world is all asleep, grown grey in  slumber; I do not remember
any waking movement since quite an  eternity; and the last thing in the nature of a sensation
was the  last time my governess was allowed to box my ears.  But yet I do  myself and your
unfortunate enchanted palace some injustice.  Here  is the last - O positively!'  And she told
him the story from behind  her fan, with many glances, many cunning strokes of the narrator's
art.  The others had drawn away, for it was understood that Madame  von Rosen was in favour
with the Prince.  None the less, however,  did the Countess lower her voice at times to within
a semitone of  whispering; and the pair leaned together over the narrative.

'Do you know,' said Otto, laughing, 'you are the only entertaining  woman on this earth!'

'O, you have found out so much,' she cried.

'Yes, madam, I grow wiser with advancing years,' he returned.

'Years,' she repeated.  'Do you name the traitors?  I do not believe  in years; the calendar
is a delusion.'

'You must be right, madam,' replied the Prince.  'For six years that  we have been good friends,
I have observed you to grow younger.'

'Flatterer!' cried she, and then with a change, 'But why should I  say so,' she added, 'when
I protest I think the same?  A week ago I  had a council with my father director, the glass;
and the glass  replied, "Not yet!"  I confess my face in this way once a month.  O!  a very
solemn moment.  Do you know what I shall do when the mirror  answers, "Now"?'

'I cannot guess,' said he.

'No more can I,' returned the Countess.  'There is such a choice!   Suicide, gambling, a nunnery,
a volume of memoirs, or politics - the  last, I am afraid.'

'It is a dull trade,' said Otto.

'Nay,' she replied, 'it is a trade I rather like.  It is, after all,  first cousin to gossip,
which no one can deny to be amusing.  For  instance, if I were to tell you that the Princess
and the Baron rode  out together daily to inspect the cannon, it is either a piece of  politics
or scandal, as I turn my phrase.  I am the alchemist that  makes the transmutation.  They have
been everywhere together since  you left,' she continued, brightening as she saw Otto darken;
'that  is a poor snippet of malicious gossip - and they were everywhere  cheered - and with
that addition all becomes political  intelligence.'

'Let us change the subject,' said Otto.

'I was about to propose it,' she replied, 'or rather to pursue the  politics.  Do you know?
this war is popular - popular to the length  of cheering Princess Seraphina.'

'All things, madam, are possible,' said the Prince; and this among  others, that we may be
going into war, but I give you my word of  honour I do not know with whom.'

'And you put up with it?' she cried.  'I have no pretensions to  morality; and I confess I
have always abominated the lamb, and  nourished a romantic feeling for the wolf.  O, be done
with  lambiness!  Let us see there is a prince, for I am weary of the  distaff.'

'Madam,' said Otto, 'I thought you were of that faction.'

'I should be of yours, MON PRINCE, if you had one,' she retorted.   'Is it true that you have
no ambition?  There was a man once in  England whom they call the kingmaker.  Do you know,'
she added, 'I  fancy I could make a prince?'

'Some day, madam,' said Otto, 'I may ask you to help make a farmer.'

'Is that a riddle?' asked the Countess.

'It is,' replied the Prince, 'and a very good one too.'

'Tit for tat.  I will ask you another,' she returned.  'Where is  Gondremark?'

'The Prime Minister?  In the prime-ministry, no doubt,' said Otto.

'Precisely,' said the Countess; and she pointed with her fan to the  door of the Princess's
apartments.  'You and I, MON PRINCE, are in  the ante-room.  You think me unkind,' she added.
'Try me and you  will see.  Set me a task, put me a question; there is no enormity I  am not
capable of doing to oblige you, and no secret that I am not  ready to betray.'

'Nay, madam, but I respect my friend too much,' he answered, kissing  her hand.  'I would rather
remain ignorant of all.  We fraternise  like foemen soldiers at the outposts, but let each
be true to his  own army.'

'Ah,' she cried, 'if all men were generous like you, it would be  worth while to be a woman!'
Yet, judging by her looks, his  generosity, if anything, had disappointed her; she seemed to
seek a  remedy, and, having found it, brightened once more.  'And now,' she  said, 'may I dismiss
my sovereign?  This is rebellion and a CAS  PENDABLE; but what am I to do?  My bear is jealous!'

'Madam, enough!' cried Otto.  'Ahasuerus reaches you the sceptre;  more, he will obey you in
all points.  I should have been a dog to  come to whistling.'

And so the Prince departed, and fluttered round Grafinski and von  Eisenthal.  But the Countess
knew the use of her offensive weapons,  and had left a pleasant arrow in the Prince's heart.
That  Gondremark was jealous - here was an agreeable revenge!  And Madame  von Rosen, as the
occasion of the jealousy, appeared to him in a new  light.

CHAPTER V - . . . GONDREMARK IS IN MY LADY'S CHAMBER

THE Countess von Rosen spoke the truth.  The great Prime Minister of  Grunewald was already
closeted with Seraphina.  The toilet was over;  and the Princess, tastefully arrayed, sat face
to face with a tall  mirror.  Sir John's description was unkindly true, true in terms and 
yet a libel, a misogynistic masterpiece.  Her forehead was perhaps  too high, but it became
her; her figure somewhat stooped, but every  detail was formed and finished like a gem; her
hand, her foot, her  ear, the set of her comely head, were all dainty and accordant; if  she
was not beautiful, she was vivid, changeful, coloured, and  pretty with a thousand various
prettinesses; and her eyes, if they  indeed rolled too consciously, yet rolled to purpose.
They were her  most attractive feature, yet they continually bore eloquent false  witness to
her thoughts; for while she herself, in the depths of her  immature, unsoftened heart, was
given altogether to manlike ambition  and the desire of power, the eyes were by turns bold,
inviting,  fiery, melting, and artful, like the eyes of a rapacious siren.  And  artful, in
a sense, she was.  Chafing that she was not a man, and  could not shine by action, she had
conceived a woman's part, of  answerable domination; she sought to subjugate for by-ends, to
rain  influence and be fancy free; and, while she loved not man, loved to  see man obey her.
It is a common girl's ambition.  Such was perhaps  that lady of the glove, who sent her lover
to the lions.  But the  snare is laid alike for male and female, and the world most artfully
contrived.

Near her, in a low chair, Gondremark had arranged his limbs into a  cat-like attitude, high-shouldered,
stooping, and submiss.  The  formidable blue jowl of the man, and the dull bilious eye, set
perhaps a higher value on his evident desire to please.  His face  was marked by capacity,
temper, and a kind of bold, piratical  dishonesty which it would be calumnious to call deceit.
His  manners, as he smiled upon the Princess, were over-fine, yet hardly  elegant.

'Possibly,' said the Baron, 'I should now proceed to take my leave.   I must not keep my sovereign
in the ante-room.  Let us come at once  to a decision.'

'It cannot, cannot be put off?' she asked.

'It is impossible,' answered Gondremark.  'Your Highness sees it for  herself.  In the earlier
stages, we might imitate the serpent; but  for the ultimatum, there is no choice but to be
bold like lions.   Had the Prince chosen to remain away, it had been better; but we  have gone
too far forward to delay.'

'What can have brought him?' she cried.  'To-day of all days?'

'The marplot, madam, has the instinct of his nature,' returned  Gondremark.  'But you exaggerate
the peril.  Think, madam, how far  we have prospered, and against what odds!  Shall a Featherhead?
-  but no!'  And he blew upon his fingers lightly with a laugh.

'Featherhead,' she replied, 'is still the Prince of Grunewald.'

'On your sufferance only, and so long as you shall please to be  indulgent,' said the Baron.
'There are rights of nature; power to  the powerful is the law.  If he shall think to cross
your destiny -  well, you have heard of the brazen and the earthen pot.'

'Do you call me pot?  You are ungallant, Baron,' laughed the  Princess.

'Before we are done with your glory, I shall have called you by many  different titles,' he
replied.

The girl flushed with pleasure.  'But Frederic is still the Prince,  MONSIEUR LE FLATTEUR,'
she said.  'You do not propose a revolution?  - you of all men?'

'Dear madam, when it is already made!' he cried.  'The Prince reigns  indeed in the almanac;
but my Princess reigns and rules.'  And he  looked at her with a fond admiration that made
the heart of  Seraphina swell.  Looking on her huge slave, she drank the  intoxicating joys
of power.  Meanwhile he continued, with that sort  of massive archness that so ill became him,
'She has but one fault;  there is but one danger in the great career that I foresee for her.
May I name it? may I be so irreverent?  It is in herself - her heart  is soft.'

'Her courage is faint, Baron,' said the Princess.  'Suppose we have  judged ill, suppose we
were defeated?'

'Defeated, madam?' returned the Baron, with a touch of ill-humour.   'Is the dog defeated by
the hare?  Our troops are all cantoned along  the frontier; in five hours the vanguard of five
thousand bayonets  shall be hammering on the gates of Brandenau; and in all Gerolstein  there
are not fifteen hundred men who can manoeuvre.  It is as  simple as a sum.  There can be no
resistance.'

'It is no great exploit,' she said.  'Is that what you call glory?   It is like beating a child.'

'The courage, madam, is diplomatic,' he replied.  'We take a grave  step; we fix the eyes of
Europe, for the first time, on Grunewald;  and in the negotiations of the next three months,
mark me, we stand  or fall.  It is there, madam, that I shall have to depend upon your  counsels,'
he added, almost gloomily.  'If I had not seen you at  work, if I did not know the fertility
of your mind, I own I should  tremble for the consequence.  But it is in this field that men
must  recognise their inability.  All the great negotiators, when they  have not been women,
have had women at their elbows.  Madame de  Pompadour was ill served; she had not found her
Gondremark; but what  a mighty politician!  Catherine de' Medici, too, what justice of  sight,
what readiness of means, what elasticity against defeat!  But  alas! madam, her Featherheads
were her own children; and she had  that one touch of vulgarity, that one trait of the good-wife,
that  she suffered family ties and affections to confine her liberty.'

These singular views of history, strictly AD USUM SERAPHINAE, did  not weave their usual soothing
spell over the Princess.  It was  plain that she had taken a momentary distaste to her own
resolutions; for she continued to oppose her counsellor, looking  upon him out of half-closed
eyes and with the shadow of a sneer upon  her lips.  'What boys men are!' she said; 'what lovers
of big words!   Courage, indeed!  If you had to scour pans, Herr Von Gondremark, you  would
call it, I suppose, Domestic Courage?'

'I would, madam,' said the Baron stoutly, 'if I scoured them well.   I would put a good name
upon a virtue; you will not overdo it: they  are not so enchanting in themselves.'

'Well, but let me see,' she said.  'I wish to understand your  courage.  Why we asked leave,
like children!  Our grannie in Berlin,  our uncle in Vienna, the whole family, have patted
us on the head  and sent us forward.  Courage?  I wonder when I hear you!'

'My Princess is unlike herself,' returned the Baron.  'She has  forgotten where the peril lies.
True, we have received  encouragement on every hand; but my Princess knows too well on what
untenable conditions; and she knows besides how, in the publicity of  the diet, these whispered
conferences are forgotten and disowned.   The danger is very real' - he raged inwardly at having
to blow the  very coal he had been quenching - 'none the less real in that it is  not precisely
military, but for that reason the easier to be faced.   Had we to count upon your troops, although
I share your Highness's  expectations of the conduct of Alvenau, we cannot forget that he has
not been proved in chief command.  But where negotiation is  concerned, the conduct lies with
us; and with your help, I laugh at  danger.'

'It may be so,' said Seraphina, sighing.  'It is elsewhere that I  see danger.  The people,
these abominable people - suppose they  should instantly rebel?  What a figure we should make
in the eyes of  Europe to have undertaken an invasion while my own throne was  tottering to
its fall!'

'Nay, madam,' said Gondremark, smiling, 'here you are beneath  yourself.  What is it that feeds
their discontent?  What but the  taxes?  Once we have seized Gerolstein, the taxes are remitted,
the  sons return covered with renown, the houses are adorned with  pillage, each tastes his
little share of military glory, and behold  us once again a happy family!  "Ay," they will
say, in each other's  long ears, "the Princess knew what she was about; she was in the  right
of it; she has a head upon her shoulders; and here we are, you  see, better off than before."
But why should I say all this?  It is  what my Princess pointed out to me herself; it was by
these reasons  that she converted me to this adventure.'

'I think, Herr von Gondremark,' said Seraphina, somewhat tartly,  'you often attribute your
own sagacity to your Princess.'

For a second Gondremark staggered under the shrewdness of the  attack; the next, he had perfectly
recovered.  'Do I?' he said.  'It  is very possible.  I have observed a similar tendency in
your  Highness.'

It was so openly spoken, and appeared so just, that Seraphina  breathed again.  Her vanity
had been alarmed, and the greatness of  the relief improved her spirits.  'Well,' she said,
'all this is  little to the purpose.  We are keeping Frederic without, and I am  still ignorant
of our line of battle.  Come, co-admiral, let us  consult. . . . How am I to receive him now?
And what are we to do  if he should appear at the council?'

'Now,' he answered.  'I shall leave him to my Princess for just now!   I have seen her at work.
Send him off to his theatricals!  But in  all gentleness,' he added.  'Would it, for instance,
would it  displease my sovereign to affect a headache?'

'Never!' said she.  'The woman who can manage, like the man who can  fight, must never shrink
from an encounter.  The knight must not  disgrace his weapons.'

'Then let me pray my BELLE DAME SANS MERCI,' he returned, 'to affect  the only virtue that
she lacks.  Be pitiful to the poor young man;  affect an interest in his hunting; be weary
of politics; find in his  society, as it were, a grateful repose from dry considerations. 
Does my Princess authorise the line of battle?'

'Well, that is a trifle,' answered Seraphina.  'The council - there  is the point.'

'The council?' cried Gondremark.  'Permit me, madam.'  And he rose  and proceeded to flutter
about the room, counterfeiting Otto both in  voice and gesture not unhappily.  'What is there
to-day, Herr von  Gondremark?  Ah, Herr Cancellarius, a new wig!  You cannot deceive  me; I
know every wig in Grunewald; I have the sovereign's eye.  What  are these papers about?  O,
I see.  O, certainly.  Surely, surely.   I wager none of you remarked that wig.  By all means.
I know  nothing about that.  Dear me, are there as many as all that?  Well,  you can sign them;
you have the procuration.  You see, Herr  Cancellarius, I knew your wig.  And so,' concluded
Gondremark,  resuming his own voice, 'our sovereign, by the particular grace of  God, enlightens
and supports his privy councillors.'

But when the Baron turned to Seraphina for approval, he found her  frozen.  'You are pleased
to be witty, Herr von Gondremark,' she  said, 'and have perhaps forgotten where you are.  But
these  rehearsals are apt to be misleading.  Your master, the Prince of  Grunewald, is sometimes
more exacting.'

Gondremark cursed her in his soul.  Of all injured vanities, that of  the reproved buffoon
is the most savage; and when grave issues are  involved, these petty stabs become unbearable.
But Gondremark was a  man of iron; he showed nothing; he did not even, like the common  trickster,
retreat because he had presumed, but held to his point  bravely.  'Madam,' he said, 'if, as
you say, he prove exacting, we  must take the bull by the horns.'

'We shall see,' she said, and she arranged her skirt like one about  to rise.  Temper, scorn,
disgust, all the more acrid feelings,  became her like jewels; and she now looked her best.

'Pray God they quarrel,' thought Gondremark.  'The damned minx may  fail me yet, unless they
quarrel.  It is time to let him in.  Zz -  fight, dogs!'  Consequent on these reflections,
he bent a stiff knee  and chivalrously kissed the Princess's hand.  'My Princess,' he  said,
'must now dismiss her servant.  I have much to arrange against  the hour of council.'

'Go,' she said, and rose.

And as Gondremark tripped out of a private door, she touched a bell,  and gave the order to
admit the Prince.

CHAPTER VI - THE PRINCE DELIVERS A LECTURE ON MARRIAGE, WITH  PRACTICAL ILLUSTRATIONS OF DIVORCE

WITH what a world of excellent intentions Otto entered his wife's  cabinet! how fatherly, how
tender! how morally affecting were the  words he had prepared!  Nor was Seraphina unamiably
inclined.  Her  usual fear of Otto as a marplot in her great designs was now  swallowed up
in a passing distrust of the designs themselves.  For  Gondremark, besides, she had conceived
an angry horror.  In her  heart she did not like the Baron.  Behind his impudent servility,
behind the devotion which, with indelicate delicacy, he still forced  on her attention, she
divined the grossness of his nature.  So a man  may be proud of having tamed a bear, and yet
sicken at his captive's  odour.  And above all, she had certain jealous intimations that the
man was false and the deception double.  True, she falsely trifled  with his love; but he,
perhaps, was only trifling with her vanity.   The insolence of his late mimicry, and the odium
of her own position  as she sat and watched it, lay besides like a load upon her  conscience.
She met Otto almost with a sense of guilt, and yet she  welcomed him as a deliverer from ugly
things.

But the wheels of an interview are at the mercy of a thousand ruts;  and even at Otto's entrance,
the first jolt occurred.  Gondremark,  he saw, was gone; but there was the chair drawn close
for  consultation; and it pained him not only that this man had been  received, but that he
should depart with such an air of secrecy.   Struggling with this twinge, it was somewhat sharply
that he  dismissed the attendant who had brought him in.

'You make yourself at home, CHEZ MOI,' she said, a little ruffled  both by his tone of command
and by the glance he had thrown upon the  chair.

'Madam,' replied Otto, 'I am here so seldom that I have almost the  rights of a stranger.'

'You choose your own associates, Frederic,' she said.

'I am here to speak of it,' he returned.  'It is now four years  since we were married; and
these four years, Seraphina, have not  perhaps been happy either for you or for me.  I am well
aware I was  unsuitable to be your husband.  I was not young, I had no ambition,  I was a trifler;
and you despised me, I dare not say unjustly.  But  to do justice on both sides, you must bear
in mind how I have acted.   When I found it amused you to play the part of Princess on this
little stage, did I not immediately resign to you my box of toys,  this Grunewald?  And when
I found I was distasteful as a husband,  could any husband have been less intrusive?  You will
tell me that I  have no feelings, no preference, and thus no credit; that I go  before the
wind; that all this was in my character.  And indeed, one  thing is true, that it is easy,
too easy, to leave things undone.   But Seraphina, I begin to learn it is not always wise.
If I were  too old and too uncongenial for your husband, I should still have  remembered that
I was the Prince of that country to which you came,  a visitor and a child.  In that relation
also there were duties, and  these duties I have not performed.'

To claim the advantage of superior age is to give sure offence.   'Duty!' laughed Seraphina,
'and on your lips, Frederic!  You make me  laugh.  What fancy is this?  Go, flirt with the
maids and be a  prince in Dresden china, as you look.  Enjoy yourself, MON ENFANT,  and leave
duty and the state to us.'

The plural grated on the Prince.  'I have enjoyed myself too much,'  he said, 'since enjoyment
is the word.  And yet there were much to  say upon the other side.  You must suppose me desperately
fond of  hunting.  But indeed there were days when I found a great deal of  interest in what
it was courtesy to call my government.  And I have  always had some claim to taste; I could
tell live happiness from  dull routine; and between hunting, and the throne of Austria, and
your society, my choice had never wavered, had the choice been mine.   You were a girl, a bud,
when you were given me - '

'Heavens!' she cried, 'is this to be a love-scene?'

'I am never ridiculous,' he said; 'it is my only merit; and you may  be certain this shall
be a scene of marriage A LA MODE.  But when I  remember the beginning, it is bare courtesy
to speak in sorrow.  Be  just, madam: you would think me strangely uncivil to recall these
days without the decency of a regret.  Be yet a little juster, and  own, if only in complaisance,
that you yourself regret that past.'

'I have nothing to regret,' said the Princess.  'You surprise me.  I  thought you were so happy.'

'Happy and happy, there are so many hundred ways,' said Otto.  'A  man may be happy in revolt;
he may be happy in sleep; wine, change,  and travel make him happy; virtue, they say, will
do the like - I  have not tried; and they say also that in old, quiet, and habitual  marriages
there is yet another happiness.  Happy, yes; I am happy if  you like; but I will tell you frankly,
I was happier when I brought  you home.'

'Well,' said the Princess, not without constraint, 'it seems you  changed your mind.'

'Not I,' returned Otto, 'I never changed.  Do you remember,  Seraphina, on our way home, when
you saw the roses in the lane, and  I got out and plucked them?  It was a narrow lane between
great  trees; the sunset at the end was all gold, and the rooks were flying  overhead.  There
were nine, nine red roses; you gave me a kiss for  each, and I told myself that every rose
and every kiss should stand  for a year of love.  Well, in eighteen months there was an end.
But  do you fancy, Seraphina, that my heart has altered?'

'I am sure I cannot tell,' she said, like an automaton.

'It has not,' the Prince continued.  'There is nothing ridiculous,  even from a husband, in
a love that owns itself unhappy and that  asks no more.  I built on sand; pardon me, I do not
breathe a  reproach - I built, I suppose, upon my own infirmities; but I put my  heart in the
building, and it still lies among the ruins.'

'How very poetical!' she said, with a little choking laugh, unknown  relentings, unfamiliar
softnesses, moving within her.  'What would  you be at?' she added, hardening her voice.

'I would be at this,' he answered; 'and hard it is to say.  I would  be at this:- Seraphina,
I am your husband after all, and a poor fool  that loves you.  Understand,' he cried almost
fiercely, 'I am no  suppliant husband; what your love refuses I would scorn to receive  from
your pity.  I do not ask, I would not take it.  And for  jealousy, what ground have I?  A dog-in-the-manger
jealousy is a  thing the dogs may laugh at.  But at least, in the world's eye, I am  still
your husband; and I ask you if you treat me fairly?  I keep to  myself, I leave you free, I
have given you in everything your will.   What do you in return?  I find, Seraphina, that you
have been too  thoughtless.  But between persons such as we are, in our conspicuous  station,
particular care and a particular courtesy are owing.   Scandal is perhaps not easy to avoid;
but it is hard to bear.'

'Scandal!' she cried, with a deep breath.  'Scandal!  It is for this  you have been driving!'

'I have tried to tell you how I feel,' he replied.  'I have told you  that I love you - love
you in vain - a bitter thing for a husband; I  have laid myself open that I might speak without
offence.  And now  that I have begun, I will go on and finish.'

'I demand it,' she said.  'What is this about?'

Otto flushed crimson.  'I have to say what I would fain not,' he  answered.  'I counsel you
to see less of Gondremark.'

'Of Gondremark?  And why?' she asked.

'Your intimacy is the ground of scandal, madam,' said Otto, firmly  enough - 'of a scandal
that is agony to me, and would be crushing to  your parents if they knew it.'

'You are the first to bring me word of it,' said she.  'I thank  you.'

'You have perhaps cause,' he replied.  'Perhaps I am the only one  among your friends - '

'O, leave my friends alone,' she interrupted.  'My friends are of a  different stamp.  You
have come to me here and made a parade of  sentiment.  When have I last seen you?  I have governed
your kingdom  for you in the meanwhile, and there I got no help.  At last, when I  am weary
with a man's work, and you are weary of your playthings,  you return to make me a scene of
conjugal reproaches - the grocer  and his wife!  The positions are too much reversed; and you
should  understand, at least, that I cannot at the same time do your work of  government and
behave myself like a little girl.  Scandal is the  atmosphere in which we live, we princes;
it is what a prince should  know.  You play an odious part.  Do you believe this rumour?'

'Madam, should I be here?' said Otto.

'It is what I want to know!' she cried, the tempest of her scorn  increasing.  'Suppose you
did - I say, suppose you did believe it?'

'I should make it my business to suppose the contrary,' he answered.

'I thought so.  O, you are made of baseness!' said she.

'Madam,' he cried, roused at last, 'enough of this.  You wilfully  misunderstand my attitude;
you outwear my patience.  In the name of  your parents, in my own name, I summon you to be
more circumspect.'

'Is this a request, MONSIEUR MON MARI?' she demanded.

'Madam, if I chose, I might command,' said Otto.

'You might, sir, as the law stands, make me prisoner,' returned  Seraphina.  'Short of that
you will gain nothing.'

'You will continue as before?' he asked.

'Precisely as before,' said she.  'As soon as this comedy is over, I  shall request the Freiherr
von Gondremark to visit me.  Do you  understand?' she added, rising.  'For my part, I have done.'

'I will then ask the favour of your hand, madam,' said Otto,  palpitating in every pulse with
anger.  'I have to request that you  will visit in my society another part of my poor house.
And  reassure yourself - it will not take long - and it is the last  obligation that you shall
have the chance to lay me under.'

'The last?' she cried.  'Most joyfully?'

She offered her hand, and he took it; on each side with an elaborate  affectation, each inwardly
incandescent.  He led her out by the  private door, following where Gondremark had passed;
they threaded a  corridor or two, little frequented, looking on a court, until they  came at
last into the Prince's suite.  The first room was an  armoury, hung all about with the weapons
of various countries, and  looking forth on the front terrace.

'Have you brought me here to slay me?' she inquired.

'I have brought you, madam, only to pass on,' replied Otto.

Next they came to a library, where an old chamberlain sat half  asleep.  He rose and bowed
before the princely couple, asking for  orders.

'You will attend us here,' said Otto.

The next stage was a gallery of pictures, where Seraphina's portrait  hung conspicuous, dressed
for the chase, red roses in her hair, as  Otto, in the first months of marriage, had directed.
He pointed to  it without a word; she raised her eyebrows in silence; and they  passed still
forward into a matted corridor where four doors opened.   One led to Otto's bedroom; one was
the private door to Seraphina's.   And here, for the first time, Otto left her hand, and stepping
forward, shot the bolt.

'It is long, madam,' said he, 'since it was bolted on the other  side.'

'One was effectual,' returned the Princess.  'Is this all?'

'Shall I reconduct you?' he asking, bowing.

'I should prefer,' she asked, in ringing tones, 'the conduct of the  Freiherr von Gondremark.'

Otto summoned the chamberlain.  'If the Freiherr von Gondremark is  in the palace,' he said,
'bid him attend the Princess here.'  And  when the official had departed, 'Can I do more to
serve you, madam?'  the Prince asked.

'Thank you, no.  I have been much amused,' she answered.

'I have now,' continued Otto, 'given you your liberty complete.   This has been for you a miserable
marriage.'

'Miserable!' said she.

'It has been made light to you; it shall be lighter still,'  continued the Prince.  'But one
thing, madam, you must still  continue to bear - my father's name, which is now yours.  I leave
it  in your hands.  Let me see you, since you will have no advice of  mine, apply the more
attention of your own to bear it worthily.'

'Herr von Gondremark is long in coming,' she remarked.

'O Seraphina, Seraphina!' he cried.  And that was the end of their  interview.

She tripped to a window and looked out; and a little after, the  chamberlain announced the
Freiherr von Gondremark, who entered with  something of a wild eye and changed complexion,
confounded, as he  was, at this unusual summons.  The Princess faced round from the  window
with a pearly smile; nothing but her heightened colour spoke  of discomposure.

Otto was pale, but he was otherwise master of himself.

'Herr von Gondremark,' said he, 'oblige me so far: reconduct the  Princess to her own apartment.'

The Baron, still all at sea, offered his hand, which was smilingly  accepted, and the pair
sailed forth through the picture-gallery.

As soon as they were gone, and Otto knew the length and breadth of  his miscarriage, and how
he had done the contrary of all that he  intended, he stood stupefied.  A fiasco so complete
and sweeping was  laughable, even to himself; and he laughed aloud in his wrath.  Upon  this
mood there followed the sharpest violence of remorse; and to  that again, as he recalled his
provocation, anger succeeded afresh.   So he was tossed in spirit; now bewailing his inconsequence
and lack  of temper, now flaming up in white-hot indignation and a noble pity  for himself.

He paced his apartment like a leopard.  There was danger in Otto,  for a flash.  Like a pistol,
he could kill at one moment, and the  next he might he kicked aside.  But just then, as he
walked the long  floors in his alternate humours, tearing his handkerchief between  his hands,
he was strung to his top note, every nerve attent.  The  pistol, you might say, was charged.
And when jealousy from time to  time fetched him a lash across the tenderest of his feeling,
and  sent a string of her fire-pictures glancing before his mind's eye,  the contraction of
his face was even dangerous.  He disregarded  jealousy's inventions, yet they stung.  In this
height of anger, he  still preserved his faith in Seraphina's innocence; but the thought  of
her possible misconduct was the bitterest ingredient in his pot  of sorrow.

There came a knock at the door, and the chamberlain brought him a  note.  He took it and ground
it in his hand, continuing his march,  continuing his bewildered thoughts; and some minutes
had gone by  before the circumstance came clearly to his mind.  Then he paused  and opened
it.  It was a pencil scratch from Gotthold, thus  conceived:

'The council is privately summoned at once. G. v. H.'

If the council was thus called before the hour, and that privately,  it was plain they feared
his interference.  Feared: here was a sweet  thought.  Gotthold, too - Gotthold, who had always
used and regarded  him as a mere peasant lad, had now been at the pains to warn him;  Gotthold
looked for something at his hands.  Well, none should be  disappointed; the Prince, too long
beshadowed by the uxorious lover,  should now return and shine.  He summoned his valet, repaired
the  disorder of his appearance with elaborate care; and then, curled and  scented and adorned,
Prince Charming in every line, but with a  twitching nostril, he set forth unattended for the
council.

CHAPTER VII - THE PRINCE DISSOLVES THE COUNCIL

IT was as Gotthold wrote.  The liberation of Sir John,  Greisengesang's uneasy narrative, last
of all, the scene between  Seraphina and the Prince, had decided the conspirators to take a
step of bold timidity.  There had been a period of bustle, liveried  messengers speeding here
and there with notes; and at half-past ten  in the morning, about an hour before its usual
hour, the council of  Grunewald sat around the board.

It was not a large body.  At the instance of Gondremark, it had  undergone a strict purgation,
and was now composed exclusively of  tools.  Three secretaries sat at a side-table.  Seraphina
took the  head; on her right was the Baron, on her left Greisengesang; below  these Grafinski
the treasurer, Count Eisenthal, a couple of non- combatants, and, to the surprise of all, Gotthold.
He had been  named a privy councillor by Otto, merely that he might profit by the  salary;
and as he was never known to attend a meeting, it had  occurred to nobody to cancel his appointment.
His present  appearance was the more ominous, coming when it did.  Gondremark  scowled upon
him; and the non-combatant on his right, intercepting  this black look, edged away from one
who was so clearly out of  favour.

'The hour presses, your Highness,' said the Baron; 'may we proceed  to business?'

'At once,' replied Seraphina.

'Your Highness will pardon me,' said Gotthold; 'but you are still,  perhaps, unacquainted with
the fact that Prince Otto has returned.'

'The Prince will not attend the council,' replied Seraphina, with a  momentary blush.  'The
despatches, Herr Cancellarius?  There is one  for Gerolstein?'

A secretary brought a paper.

'Here, madam,' said Greisengesang.  'Shall I read it?'

'We are all familiar with its terms,' replied Gondremark.  'Your  Highness approves?'

'Unhesitatingly,' said Seraphina.

'It may then be held as read,' concluded the Baron.  'Will your  Highness sign?'

The Princess did so; Gondremark, Eisenthal, and one of the non- combatants followed suit; and
the paper was then passed across the  table to the librarian.  He proceeded leisurely to read.

'We have no time to spare, Herr Doctor,' cried the Baron brutally.   'If you do not choose
to sign on the authority of your sovereign,  pass it on.  Or you may leave the table,' he added,
his temper  ripping out.

'I decline your invitation, Herr von Gondremark; and my sovereign,  as I continue to observe
with regret, is still absent from the  board,' replied the Doctor calmly; and he resumed the
perusal of the  paper, the rest chafing and exchanging glances.  'Madame and  gentlemen,' he
said, at last, 'what I hold in my hand is simply a  declaration of war.'

'Simply,' said Seraphina, flashing defiance.

'The sovereign of this country is under the same roof with us,'  continued Gotthold, 'and I
insist he shall be summoned.  It is  needless to adduce my reasons; you are all ashamed at
heart of this  projected treachery.'

The council waved like a sea.  There were various outcries.

'You insult the Princess,' thundered Gondremark.

'I maintain my protest,' replied Gotthold.

At the height of this confusion the door was thrown open; an usher  announced, 'Gentlemen,
the Prince!' and Otto, with his most  excellent bearing, entered the apartment.  It was like
oil upon the  troubled waters; every one settled instantly into his place, and  Griesengesang,
to give himself a countenance, became absorbed in the  arrangement of his papers; but in their
eagerness to dissemble, one  and all neglected to rise.

'Gentlemen,' said the Prince, pausing.

They all got to their feet in a moment; and this reproof still  further demoralised the weaker
brethren.

The Prince moved slowly towards the lower end of the table; then he  paused again, and, fixing
his eye on Greisengesang, 'How comes it,  Herr Cancellarius,' he asked, 'that I have received
no notice of the  change of hour?'

'Your Highness,' replied the Chancellor, 'her Highness the Princess  . . .' and there paused.

'I understood,' said Seraphina, taking him up, 'that you did not  purpose to be present.'

Their eyes met for a second, and Seraphina's fell; but her anger  only burned the brighter
for that private shame.

'And now, gentlemen,' said Otto, taking his chair, 'I pray you to be  seated.  I have been
absent: there are doubtless some arrears; but  ere we proceed to business, Herr Grafinski,
you will direct four  thousand crowns to be sent to me at once.  Make a note, if you  please,'
he added, as the treasurer still stared in wonder.

'Four thousand crowns?' asked Seraphina.  'Pray, for what?'

'Madam,' returned Otto, smiling, 'for my own purposes.'

Gondremark spurred up Grafinski underneath the table.

'If your Highness will indicate the destination . . . ' began the  puppet.

'You are not here, sir, to interrogate your Prince,' said Otto.

Grafinski looked for help to his commander; and Gondremark came to  his aid, in suave and measured
tones.

'Your Highness may reasonably be surprised,' he said; 'and Herr  Grafinski, although I am convinced
he is clear of the intention of  offending, would have perhaps done better to begin with an
explanation.  The resources of the state are at the present moment  entirely swallowed up,
or, as we hope to prove, wisely invested.  In  a month from now, I do not question we shall
be able to meet any  command your Highness may lay upon us; but at this hour I fear that, 
even in so small a matter, he must prepare himself for  disappointment.  Our zeal is no less,
although our power may be  inadequate.'

'How much, Herr Grafinski, have we in the treasury?' asked Otto.

'Your Highness,' protested the treasurer, 'we have immediate need of  every crown.'

'I think, sir, you evade me,' flashed the Prince; and then turning  to the side-table, 'Mr.
Secretary,' he added, 'bring me, if you  please, the treasury docket.'

Herr Grafinski became deadly pale; the Chancellor, expecting his own  turn, was probably engaged
in prayer; Gondremark was watching like a  ponderous cat.  Gotthold, on his part, looked on
with wonder at his  cousin; he was certainly showing spirit, but what, in such a time of  gravity,
was all this talk of money? and why should he waste his  strength upon a personal issue?

'I find,' said Otto, with his finger on the docket, 'that we have  20,000 crowns in case.'

'That is exact, your Highness,' replied the Baron.  'But our  liabilities, all of which are
happily not liquid, amount to a far  larger sum; and at the present point of time it would
be morally  impossible to divert a single florin.  Essentially, the case is  empty.  We have,
already presented, a large note for material of  war.'

'Material of war?' exclaimed Otto, with an excellent assumption of  surprise.  'But if my memory
serves me right, we settled these  accounts in January.'

'There have been further orders,' the Baron explained.  'A new park  of artillery has been
completed; five hundred stand of arms, seven  hundred baggage mules - the details are in a
special memorandum. -  Mr. Secretary Holtz, the memorandum, if you please.'

'One would think, gentlemen, that we were going to war,' said Otto.

'We are,' said Seraphina.

'War!' cried the Prince, 'and, gentlemen, with whom?  The peace of  Grunewald has endured for
centuries.  What aggression, what insult,  have we suffered?'

'Here, your Highness,' said Gotthold, 'is the ultimatum.  It was in  the very article of signature,
when your Highness so opportunely  entered.'

Otto laid the paper before him; as he read, his fingers played  tattoo upon the table.  'Was
it proposed,' he inquired, 'to send  this paper forth without a knowledge of my pleasure?'

One of the non-combatants, eager to trim, volunteered an answer.   'The Herr Doctor von Hohenstockwitz
had just entered his dissent,'  he added.

'Give me the rest of this correspondence,' said the Prince.  It was  handed to him, and he
read it patiently from end to end, while the  councillors sat foolishly enough looking before
them on the table.

The secretaries, in the background, were exchanging glances of  delight; a row at the council
was for them a rare and welcome  feature.

'Gentlemen,' said Otto, when he had finished, 'I have read with  pain.  This claim upon Obermunsterol
is palpably unjust; it has not  a tincture, not a show, of justice.  There is not in all this
ground  enough for after-dinner talk, and you propose to force it as a CASUS  BELLI.'

'Certainly, your Highness,' returned Gondremark, too wise to defend  the indefensible, 'the
claim on Obermunsterol is simply a pretext.'

'It is well,' said the Prince.  'Herr Cancellarius, take your pen.   "The council," he began
to dictate - 'I withhold all notice of my  intervention,' he said, in parenthesis, and addressing
himself more  directly to his wife; 'and I say nothing of the strange suppression  by which
this business has been smuggled past my knowledge.  I am  content to be in time - "The council,"'
he resumed, '"on a further  examination of the facts, and enlightened by the note in the last
despatch from Gerolstein, have the pleasure to announce that they  are entirely at one, both
as to fact and sentiment, with the Grand- Ducal Court of Gerolstein."  You have it?  Upon these
lines, sir,  you will draw up the despatch.'

'If your Highness will allow me,' said the Baron, 'your Highness is  so imperfectly acquainted
with the internal history of this  correspondence, that any interference will be merely hurtful.
Such  a paper as your Highness proposes would be to stultify the whole  previous policy of
Grunewald.'

'The policy of Grunewald!' cried the Prince.  'One would suppose you  had no sense of humour!
Would you fish in a coffee cup?'

'With deference, your Highness,' returned the Baron, 'even in a  coffee cup there may be poison.
The purpose of this war is not  simply territorial enlargement; still less is it a war of glory;
for, as your Highness indicates, the state of Grunewald is too small  to be ambitious.  But
the body politic is seriously diseased;  republicanism, socialism, many disintegrating ideas
are abroad;  circle within circle, a really formidable organisation has grown up  about your
Highness's throne.'

'I have heard of it, Herr von Gondremark,' put in the Prince; 'but I  have reason to be aware
that yours is the more authoritative  information.'

'I am honoured by this expression of my Prince's confidence'  returned Gondremark, unabashed.
'It is, therefore, with a single  eye to these disorders that our present external policy has
been  shaped.  Something was required to divert public attention, to  employ the idle, to popularise
your Highness's rule, and, if it were  possible, to enable him to reduce the taxes at a blow
and to a  notable amount.  The proposed expedition - for it cannot without  hyperbole be called
a war - seemed to the council to combine the  various characters required; a marked improvement
in the public  sentiment has followed even upon our preparations; and I cannot  doubt that
when success shall follow, the effect will surpass even  our boldest hopes.'

'You are very adroit, Herr von Gondremark,' said Otto.  'You fill me  with admiration.  I had
not heretofore done justice to your  qualities.'

Seraphina looked up with joy, supposing Otto conquered; but  Gondremark still waited, armed
at every point; he knew how very  stubborn is the revolt of a weak character.

'And the territorial army scheme, to which I was persuaded to  consent - was it secretly directed
to the same end?' the Prince  asked.

'I still believe the effect to have been good,' replied the Baron;  'discipline and mounting
guard are excellent sedatives.  But I will  avow to your Highness, I was unaware, at the date
of that decree, of  the magnitude of the revolutionary movement; nor did any of us, I  think,
imagine that such a territorial army was a part of the  republican proposals.'

'It was?' asked Otto.  'Strange!  Upon what fancied grounds?'

'The grounds were indeed fanciful,' returned the Baron.  'It was  conceived among the leaders
that a territorial army, drawn from and  returning to the people, would, in the event of any
popular  uprising, prove lukewarm or unfaithful to the throne.'

'I see,' said the Prince.  'I begin to understand.'

'His Highness begins to understand?' repeated Gondremark, with the  sweetest politeness.  'May
I beg of him to complete the phrase?'

'The history of the revolution,' replied Otto dryly.  'And now,' he  added, 'what do you conclude?'

'I conclude, your Highness, with a simple reflection,' said the  Baron, accepting the stab
without a quiver, 'the war is popular;  were the rumour contradicted to-morrow, a considerable
disappointment would be felt in many classes; and in the present  tension of spirits, the most
lukewarm sentiment may be enough to  precipitate events.  There lies the danger.  The revolution
hangs  imminent; we sit, at this council board, below the sword of  Damocles.'

'We must then lay our heads together,' said the Prince, 'and devise  some honourable means
of safety.'

Up to this moment, since the first note of opposition fell from the  librarian, Seraphina had
uttered about twenty words.  With a  somewhat heightened colour, her eyes generally lowered,
her foot  sometimes nervously tapping on the floor, she had kept her own  counsel and commanded
her anger like a hero.  But at this stage of  the engagement she lost control of her impatience.

'Means!' she cried.  'They have been found and prepared before you  knew the need for them.
Sign the despatch, and let us be done with  this delay.'

'Madam, I said "honourable,"' returned Otto, bowing.  'This war is,  in my eyes, and by Herr
von Gondremark's account, an inadmissible  expedient.  If we have misgoverned here in Grunewald,
are the people  of Gerolstein to bleed and pay for our mis-doings?  Never, madam;  not while
I live.  But I attach so much importance to all that I  have heard to-day for the first time
- and why only to-day, I do not  even stop to ask - that I am eager to find some plan that
I can  follow with credit to myself.'

'And should you fail?' she asked.

'Should I fail, I will then meet the blow half-way,' replied the  Prince.  'On the first open
discontent, I shall convoke the States,  and, when it pleases them to bid me, abdicate.'

Seraphina laughed angrily.  'This is the man for whom we have been  labouring!' she cried.
'We tell him of change; he will devise the  means, he says; and his device is abdication? 
Sir, have you no  shame to come here at the eleventh hour among those who have borne  the heat
and burthen of the day?  Do you not wonder at yourself?  I,  sir, was here in my place, striving
to uphold your dignity alone.  I  took counsel with the wisest I could find, while you were
eating and  hunting.  I have laid my plans with foresight; they were ripe for  action; and
then - 'she choked - 'then you return - for a forenoon -  to ruin all!  To-morrow, you will
be once more about your pleasures;  you will give us leave once more to think and work for
you; and  again you will come back, and again you will thwart what you had not  the industry
or knowledge to conceive.  O! it is intolerable.  Be  modest, sir.  Do not presume upon the
rank you cannot worthily  uphold.  I would not issue my commands with so much gusto - it is
from no merit in yourself they are obeyed.  What are you?  What have  you to do in this grave
council?  Go,' she cried, 'go among your  equals?  The very people in the streets mock at you
for a prince.'

At this surprising outburst the whole council sat aghast.

'Madam,' said the Baron, alarmed out of his caution, 'command  yourself.'

'Address yourself to me, sir!' cried the Prince.  'I will not bear  these whisperings!'

Seraphina burst into tears.

'Sir,' cried the Baron, rising, 'this lady - '

'Herr von Gondremark,' said the Prince, 'one more observation, and I  place you under arrest.'

'Your Highness is the master,' replied Gondremark, bowing.

'Bear it in mind more constantly,' said Otto.  'Herr Cancellarius,  bring all the papers to
my cabinet.  Gentlemen, the council is  dissolved.'

And he bowed and left the apartment, followed by Greisengesang and  the secretaries, just at
the moment when the Princess's ladies,  summoned in all haste, entered by another door to help
her forth.

CHAPTER VIII - THE PARTY OF WAR TAKES ACTION

HALF an hour after, Gondremark was once more closeted with  Seraphina.

'Where is he now?' she asked, on his arrival.

'Madam, he is with the Chancellor,' replied the Baron.  'Wonder of  wonders, he is at work!'

'Ah,' she said, 'he was born to torture me!  O what a fall, what a  humiliation!  Such a scheme
to wreck upon so small a trifle!  But  now all is lost.'

'Madam,' said Gondremark, 'nothing is lost.  Something, on the other  hand, is found.  You
have found your senses; you see him as he is -  see him as you see everything where your too-good
heart is not in  question - with the judicial, with the statesman's eye.  So long as  he had
a right to interfere, the empire that may be was still  distant.  I have not entered on this
course without the plain  foresight of its dangers; and even for this I was prepared.  But,
madam, I knew two things: I knew that you were born to command, that  I was born to serve;
I knew that by a rare conjuncture, the hand had  found the tool; and from the first I was confident,
as I am  confident to-day, that no hereditary trifler has the power to  shatter that alliance.'

'I, born to command!' she said.  'Do you forget my tears?'

'Madam, they were the tears of Alexander,' cried the Baron.  'They  touched, they thrilled
me; I, forgot myself a moment - even I!  But  do you suppose that I had not remarked, that
I had not admired, your  previous bearing? your great self-command?  Ay, that was princely!'
He paused.  'It was a thing to see.  I drank confidence!  I tried to  imitate your calm.  And
I was well inspired; in my heart, I think  that I was well inspired; that any man, within the
reach of  argument, had been convinced!  But it was not to be; nor, madam, do  I regret the
failure.  Let us be open; let me disclose my heart.  I  have loved two things, not unworthily:
Grunewald and my sovereign!'   Here he kissed her hand.  'Either I must resign my ministry,
leave  the land of my adoption and the queen whom I had chosen to obey - or  - '  He paused again.

'Alas, Herr von Gondremark, there is no "or,"' said Seraphina.

'Nay, madam, give me time,' he replied.  'When first I saw you, you  were still young; not
every man would have remarked your powers; but  I had not been twice honoured by your conversation
ere I had found  my mistress.  I have, madam, I believe, some genius; and I have much  ambition.
But the genius is of the serving kind; and to offer a  career to my ambition, I had to find
one born to rule.  This is the  base and essence of our union; each had need of the other;
each  recognised, master and servant, lever and fulcrum, the complement of  his endowment.
Marriages, they say, are made in heaven: how much  more these pure, alborious, intellectual
fellowships, born to found  empires!  Nor is this all.  We found each other ripe, filled with
great ideas that took shape and clarified with every word.  We grew  together - ay, madam,
in mind we grew together like twin children.   All of my life until we met was petty and groping;
was it not - I  will flatter myself openly - it WAS the same with you!  Not till  then had
you those eagle surveys, that wide and hopeful sweep of  intuition!  Thus we had formed ourselves,
and we were ready.'

'It is true,' she cried.  'I feel it.  Yours is the genius; your  generosity confounds your
insight; all I could offer you was the  position, was this throne, to be a fulcrum.  But I
offered it  without reserve; I entered at least warmly into all your thoughts;  you were sure
of me - sure of my support - certain of justice.  Tell  me, tell me again, that I have helped you.'

'Nay, madam,' he said, 'you made me.  In everything you were my  inspiration.  And as we prepared
our policy, weighing every step,  how often have I had to admire your perspicacity, your man-like
diligence and fortitude!  You know that these are not the words of  flattery; your conscience
echoes them; have you spared a day? have  you indulged yourself in any pleasure?  Young and
beautiful, you  have lived a life of high intellectual effort, of irksome  intellectual patience
with details.  Well, you have your reward:  with the fall of Brandenau, the throne of your
Empire is founded.'

'What thought have you in your mind?' she asked.  'Is not all  ruined?'

'Nay, my Princess, the same thought is in both our minds,' he said.

'Herr von Gondremark,' she replied, 'by all that I hold sacred, I  have none; I do not think
at all; I am crushed.'

'You are looking at the passionate side of a rich nature,  misunderstood and recently insulted,'
said the Baron.  'Look into  your intellect, and tell me.'

'I find nothing, nothing but tumult,' she replied.

'You find one word branded, madam,' returned the Baron:  '"Abdication!"'

'O!' she cried.  'The coward!  He leaves me to bear all, and in the  hour of trial he stabs
me from behind.  There is nothing in him, not  respect, not love, not courage - his wife, his
dignity, his throne,  the honour of his father, he forgets them all!'

'Yes,' pursued the Baron, 'the word Abdication.  I perceive a  glimmering there.'

'I read your fancy,' she returned.  'It is mere madness, midsummer  madness.  Baron, I am more
unpopular than he.  You know it.  They  can excuse, they can love, his weakness; but me, they
hate.'

'Such is the gratitude of peoples,' said the Baron.  'But we trifle.   Here, madam, are my
plain thoughts.  The man who in the hour of  danger speaks of abdication is, for me, a venomous
animal.  I speak  with the bluntness of gravity, madam; this is no hour for mincing.   The
coward, in a station of authority, is more dangerous than fire.   We dwell on a volcano; if
this man can have his way, Grunewald  before a week will have been deluged with innocent blood.
You know  the truth of what I say; we have looked unblenching into this ever- possible catastrophe.
To him it is nothing: he will abdicate!   Abdicate, just God! and this unhappy country committed
to his  charge, and the lives of men and the honour of women . . .'  His  voice appeared to
fail him; in an instant he had conquered his  emotion and resumed: 'But you, madam, conceive
more worthily of your  responsibilities.  I am with you in the thought; and in the face of
the horrors that I see impending, I say, and your heart repeats it -  we have gone too far
to pause.  Honour, duty, ay, and the care of  our own lives, demand we should proceed.'

She was looking at him, her brow thoughtfully knitted.  'I feel it,'  she said.  'But how?
He has the power.'

'The power, madam?  The power is in the army,' he replied; and then  hastily, ere she could
intervene, 'we have to save ourselves,' he  went on; 'I have to save my Princess, she has to
save her minister;  we have both of us to save this infatuated youth from his own  madness.
He in the outbreak would be the earliest victim; I see  him,' he cried, 'torn in pieces; and
Grunewald, unhappy Grunewald!   Nay, madam, you who have the power must use it; it lies hard
upon  your conscience.'

'Show me how!' she cried.  'Suppose I were to place him under some  constraint, the revolution
would break upon us instantly.'

The Baron feigned defeat.  'It is true,' he said.  'You see more  clearly than I do.  Yet there
should, there must be, some way.'  And  he waited for his chance.

'No,' she said; 'I told you from the first there is no remedy.  Our  hopes are lost: lost by
one miserable trifler, ignorant, fretful,  fitful - who will have disappeared to-morrow, who
knows? to his  boorish pleasures!'

Any peg would do for Gondremark.  'The thing!' he cried, striking  his brow.  'Fool, not to
have thought of it!  Madam, without perhaps  knowing it, you have solved our problem.'

'What do you mean?  Speak!' she said.

He appeared to collect himself; and then, with a smile, 'The  Prince,' he said, 'must go once
more a-hunting.'

'Ay, if he would!' cried she, 'and stay there!'

'And stay there,' echoed the Baron.  It was so significantly said,  that her face changed;
and the schemer, fearful of the sinister  ambiguity of his expressions, hastened to explain.
'This time he  shall go hunting in a carriage, with a good escort of our foreign  lancers.
His destination shall be the Felsenburg; it is healthy,  the rock is high, the windows are
small and barred; it might have  been built on purpose.  We shall intrust the captaincy to
the  Scotsman Gordon; he at least will have no scruple.  Who will miss  the sovereign?  He
is gone hunting; he came home on Tuesday, on  Thursday he returned; all is usual in that. 
Meanwhile the war  proceeds; our Prince will soon weary of his solitude; and about the  time
of our triumph, or, if he prove very obstinate, a little later,  he shall be released upon
a proper understanding, and I see him once  more directing his theatricals.'

Seraphina sat gloomy, plunged in thought.  'Yes,' she said suddenly,  'and the despatch?  He
is now writing it.'

'It cannot pass the council before Friday,' replied Gondremark; 'and  as for any private note,
the messengers are all at my disposal.   They are picked men, madam.  I am a person of precaution.'

'It would appear so,' she said, with a flash of her occasional  repugnance to the man; and
then after a pause, 'Herr von  Gondremark,' she added, 'I recoil from this extremity.'

'I share your Highness's repugnance,' answered he.  'But what would  you have?  We are defenceless,
else.'

'I see it, but this is sudden.  It is a public crime,' she said,  nodding at him with a sort
of horror.

'Look but a little deeper,' he returned, 'and whose is the crime?'

'His!' she cried.  'His, before God!  And I hold him liable.  But  still - '

'It is not as if he would be harmed,' submitted Gondremark.

'I know it,' she replied, but it was still unheartily.

And then, as brave men are entitled, by prescriptive right as old as  the world's history,
to the alliance and the active help of Fortune,  the punctual goddess stepped down from the
machine.  One of the  Princess's ladies begged to enter; a man, it appeared, had brought a
line for the Freiherr von Gondremark.  It proved to be a pencil  billet, which the crafty Greisengesang
had found the means to  scribble and despatch under the very guns of Otto; and the daring of
the act bore testimony to the terror of the actor.  For  Greisengesang had but one influential
motive: fear.  The note ran  thus: 'At the first council, procuration to be withdrawn. - CORN.
GREIS.'

So, after three years of exercise, the right of signature was to be  stript from Seraphina.
It was more than an insult; it was a public  disgrace; and she did not pause to consider how
she had earned it,  but morally bounded under the attack as bounds the wounded tiger.

'Enough,' she said; 'I will sign the order.  When shall he leave?'

'It will take me twelve hours to collect my men, and it had best be  done at night.  To-morrow
midnight, if you please?' answered the  Baron.

'Excellent,' she said.  'My door is always open to you, Baron.  As  soon as the order is prepared,
bring it me to sign.'

'Madam,' he said, 'alone of all of us you do not risk your head in  this adventure.  For that
reason, and to prevent all hesitation, I  venture to propose the order should be in your hand
throughout.'

'You are right,' she replied.

He laid a form before her, and she wrote the order in a clear hand,  and re-read it.  Suddenly
a cruel smile came on her face.  'I had  forgotten his puppet,' said she.  'They will keep
each other  company.'  And she interlined and initiated the condemnation of  Doctor Gotthold.

'Your Highness has more memory than your servant,' said the Baron;  and then he, in his turn,
carefully perused the fateful paper.   'Good!' said he.

'You will appear in the drawing-room, Baron?' she asked.

'I thought it better,' said he, 'to avoid the possibility of a  public affront.  Anything that
shook my credit might hamper us in  the immediate future.'

'You are right,' she said; and she held out her hand as to an old  friend and equal.

CHAPTER IX - THE PRICE OF THE RIVER FARM; IN WHICH VAINGLORY GOES  BEFORE A FALL

THE pistol had been practically fired.  Under ordinary circumstances  the scene at the council
table would have entirely exhausted Otto's  store both of energy and anger; he would have begun
to examine and  condemn his conduct, have remembered all that was true, forgotten  all that
was unjust in Seraphina's onslaught; and by half an hour  after would have fallen into that
state of mind in which a Catholic  flees to the confessional and a sot takes refuge with the
bottle.   Two matters of detail preserved his spirits.  For, first, he had  still an infinity
of business to transact; and to transact business,  for a man of Otto's neglectful and procrastinating
habits, is the  best anodyne for conscience.  All afternoon he was hard at it with  the Chancellor,
reading, dictating, signing, and despatching papers;  and this kept him in a glow of self-approval.
But, secondly, his  vanity was still alarmed; he had failed to get the money; to-morrow  before
noon he would have to disappoint old Killian; and in the eyes  of that family which counted
him so little, and to which he had  sought to play the part of the heroic comforter, he must
sink lower  than at first.  To a man of Otto's temper, this was death.  He could  not accept
the situation.  And even as he worked, and worked wisely  and well, over the hated details
of his principality, he was  secretly maturing a plan by which to turn the situation.  It was
a  scheme as pleasing to the man as it was dishonourable in the prince;  in which his frivolous
nature found and took vengeance for the  gravity and burthen of the afternoon.  He chuckled
as he thought of  it: and Greisengesang heard him with wonder, and attributed his  lively spirits
to the skirmish of the morning.

Led by this idea, the antique courtier ventured to compliment his  sovereign on his bearing.
It reminded him, he said, of Otto's  father.

'What?' asked the Prince, whose thoughts were miles away.

'Your Highness's authority at the board,' explained the flatterer.

'O, that!  O yes,' returned Otto; but for all his carelessness, his  vanity was delicately
tickled, and his mind returned and dwelt  approvingly over the details of his victory.  'I
quelled them all,'  he thought.

When the more pressing matters had been dismissed, it was already  late, and Otto kept the
Chancellor to dinner, and was entertained  with a leash of ancient histories and modern compliments.
The  Chancellor's career had been based, from the first off-put, on  entire subserviency; he
had crawled into honours and employments;  and his mind was prostitute.  The instinct of the
creature served  him well with Otto.  First, he let fall a sneering word or two upon  the female
intellect; thence he proceeded to a closer engagement;  and before the third course he was
artfully dissecting Seraphina's  character to her approving husband.  Of course no names were
used;  and of course the identity of that abstract or ideal man, with whom  she was currently
contrasted, remained an open secret.  But this  stiff old gentleman had a wonderful instinct
for evil, thus to wind  his way into man's citadel; thus to harp by the hour on the virtues
of his hearer and not once alarm his self-respect.  Otto was all  roseate, in and out, with
flattery and Tokay and an approving  conscience.  He saw himself in the most attractive colours.
If even  Greisengesang, he thought, could thus espy the loose stitches in  Seraphina's character,
and thus disloyally impart them to the  opposite camp, he, the discarded husband - the dispossessed
Prince -  could scarce have erred on the side of severity.

In this excellent frame he bade adieu to the old gentleman, whose  voice had proved so musical,
and set forth for the drawing-room.   Already on the stair, he was seized with some compunction;
but when  he entered the great gallery and beheld his wife, the Chancellor's  abstract flatteries
fell from him like rain, and he re-awoke to the  poetic facts of life.  She stood a good way
off below a shining  lustre, her back turned.  The bend of her waist overcame him with  physical
weakness.  This was the girl-wife who had lain in his arms  and whom he had sworn to cherish;
there was she, who was better than  success.

It was Seraphina who restored him from the blow.  She swam forward  and smiled upon her husband
with a sweetness that was insultingly  artificial.  'Frederic,' she lisped, 'you are late.'
It was a scene  of high comedy, such as is proper to unhappy marriages; and her  APLOMB disgusted
him.

There was no etiquette at these small drawing-rooms.  People came  and went at pleasure.  The
window embrasures became the roost of  happy couples; at the great chimney the talkers mostly
congregated,  each full-charged with scandal; and down at the farther end the  gamblers gambled.
It was towards this point that Otto moved, not  ostentatiously, but with a gentle insistence,
and scattering  attentions as he went.  Once abreast of the card-table, he placed  himself
opposite to Madame von Rosen, and, as soon as he had caught  her eye, withdrew to the embrasure
of a window.  There she had  speedily joined him.

'You did well to call me,' she said, a little wildly.  'These cards  will be my ruin.'

'Leave them,' said Otto.

'I!' she cried, and laughed; 'they are my destiny.  My only chance  was to die of a consumption;
now I must die in a garret.'

'You are bitter to-night,' said Otto.

'I have been losing,' she replied.  'You do not know what greed is.'

'I have come, then, in an evil hour,' said he.

'Ah, you wish a favour!' she cried, brightening beautifully.

'Madam,' said he, 'I am about to found my party, and I come to you  for a recruit.'

'Done,' said the Countess.  'I am a man again.'

'I may be wrong,' continued Otto, 'but I believe upon my heart you  wish me no ill.'

'I wish you so well,' she said, 'that I dare not tell it you.'

'Then if I ask my favour?' quoth the Prince.

'Ask it, MON PRINCE,' she answered.  'Whatever it is, it is  granted.'

'I wish you,' he returned, 'this very night to make the farmer of  our talk.'

'Heaven knows your meaning!' she exclaimed.  'I know not, neither  care; there are no bounds
to my desire to please you.  Call him  made.'

'I will put it in another way,' returned Otto.  'Did you ever  steal?'

'Often!' cried the Countess.  'I have broken all the ten  commandments; and if there were more
to-morrow, I should not sleep  till I had broken these.'

'This is a case of burglary: to say the truth, I thought it would  amuse you,' said the Prince.

'I have no practical experience,' she replied, 'but O! the good- will!  I have broken a work-box
in my time, and several hearts, my  own included.  Never a house!  But it cannot be difficult;
sins are  so unromantically easy!  What are we to break?'

'Madam, we are to break the treasury,' said Otto and he sketched to  her briefly, wittily,
with here and there a touch of pathos, the  story of his visit to the farm, of his promise
to buy it, and of the  refusal with which his demand for money had been met that morning at
the council; concluding with a few practical words as to the  treasury windows, and the helps
and hindrances of the proposed  exploit.

'They refused you the money,' she said when he had done.  'And you  accepted the refusal?  Well!'

'They gave their reasons,' replied Otto, colouring.  'They were not  such as I could combat;
and I am driven to dilapidate the funds of  my own country by a theft.  It is not dignified;
but it is fun.'

'Fun,' she said; 'yes.'  And then she remained silently plunged in  thought for an appreciable
time.  'How much do you require?' she  asked at length.

'Three thousand crowns will do,' he answered, 'for I have still some  money of my own.'

'Excellent,' she said, regaining her levity.  'I am your true  accomplice.  And where are we
to meet?'

'You know the Flying Mercury,' he answered, 'in the Park?  Three  pathways intersect; there
they have made a seat and raised the  statue.  The spot is handy and the deity congenial.'

'Child,' she said, and tapped him with her fan.  'But do you know,  my Prince, you are an egoist
- your handy trysting-place is miles  from me.  You must give me ample time; I cannot, I think,
possibly  be there before two.  But as the bell beats two, your helper shall  arrive: welcome,
I trust.  Stay - do you bring any one?' she added.   'O, it is not for a chaperon - I am not
a prude!'

'I shall bring a groom of mine,' said Otto.  'I caught him stealing  corn.'

'His name?' she asked.

'I profess I know not.  I am not yet intimate with my corn-stealer,'  returned the Prince.
'It was in a professional capacity - '

'Like me!  Flatterer!' she cried.  'But oblige me in one thing.  Let  me find you waiting at
the seat - yes, you shall await me; for on  this expedition it shall be no longer Prince and
Countess, it shall  be the lady and the squire - and your friend the thief shall be no  nearer
than the fountain.  Do you promise?'

'Madam, in everything you are to command; you shall be captain, I am  but supercargo,' answered
Otto.

'Well, Heaven bring all safe to port!' she said.  'It is not  Friday!'

Something in her manner had puzzled Otto, had possibly touched him  with suspicion.

'Is it not strange,' he remarked, 'that I should choose my  accomplice from the other camp?'

'Fool!' she said.  'But it is your only wisdom that you know your  friends.'  And suddenly,
in the vantage of the deep window, she  caught up his hand and kissed it with a sort of passion.
'Now go,'  she added, 'go at once.'

He went, somewhat staggered, doubting in his heart that he was over- bold.  For in that moment
she had flashed upon him like a jewel; and  even through the strong panoply of a previous love
he had been  conscious of a shock.  Next moment he had dismissed the fear.

Both Otto and the Countess retired early from the drawing-room; and  the Prince, after an elaborate
feint, dismissed his valet, and went  forth by the private passage and the back postern in
quest of the  groom.

Once more the stable was in darkness, once more Otto employed the  talismanic knock, and once
more the groom appeared and sickened with  terror.

'Good-evening, friend,' said Otto pleasantly.  'I want you to bring  a corn sack - empty this
time - and to accompany me.  We shall be  gone all night.'

'Your Highness,' groaned the man, 'I have the charge of the small  stables.  I am here alone.'

'Come,' said the Prince, 'you are no such martinet in duty.'  And  then seeing that the man
was shaking from head to foot, Otto laid a  hand upon his shoulder.  'If I meant you harm,'
he said, 'should I  be here?'

The fellow became instantly reassured.  He got the sack; and Otto  led him round by several
paths and avenues, conversing pleasantly by  the way, and left him at last planted by a certain
fountain where a  goggle-eyed Triton spouted intermittently into a rippling laver.   Thence
he proceeded alone to where, in a round clearing, a copy of  Gian Bologna's Mercury stood tiptoe
in the twilight of the stars.   The night was warm and windless.  A shaving of new moon had
lately  arisen; but it was still too small and too low down in heaven to  contend with the
immense host of lesser luminaries; and the rough  face of the earth was drenched with starlight.
Down one of the  alleys, which widened as it receded, he could see a part of the  lamplit terrace
where a sentry silently paced, and beyond that a  corner of the town with interlacing street-lights.
But all around  him the young trees stood mystically blurred in the dim shine; and  in the
stock-still quietness the upleaping god appeared alive.

In this dimness and silence of the night, Otto's conscience became  suddenly and staringly
luminous, like the dial of a city clock.  He  averted the eyes of his mind, but the finger
rapidly travelling,  pointed to a series of misdeeds that took his breath away.  What was 
he doing in that place?  The money had been wrongly squandered, but  that was largely by his
own neglect.  And he now proposed to  embarrass the finances of this country which he had been
too idle to  govern.  And he now proposed to squander the money once again, and  this time
for a private, if a generous end.  And the man whom he had  reproved for stealing corn he was
now to set stealing treasure.  And  then there was Madame von Rosen, upon whom he looked down
with some  of that ill-favoured contempt of the chaste male for the imperfect  woman.  Because
he thought of her as one degraded below scruples, he  had picked her out to be still more degraded,
and to risk her whole  irregular establishment in life by complicity in this dishonourable
act.  It was uglier than a seduction.

Otto had to walk very briskly and whistle very busily; and when at  last he heard steps in
the narrowest and darkest of the alleys, it  was with a gush of relief that he sprang to meet
the Countess.  To  wrestle alone with one's good angel is so hard! and so precious, at  the
proper time, is a companion certain to be less virtuous than  oneself!

It was a young man who came towards him - a young man of small  stature and a peculiar gait,
wearing a wide flapping hat, and  carrying, with great weariness, a heavy bag.  Otto recoiled;
but the  young man held up his hand by way of signal, and coming up with a  panting run, as
if with the last of his endurance, laid the bag upon  the ground, threw himself upon the bench,
and disclosed the features  of Madame von Rosen.

'You, Countess!' cried the Prince.

'No, no,' she panted, 'the Count von Rosen - my young brother.  A  capital fellow.  Let him
get his breath.'

'Ah, madam. . .' said he.

'Call me Count,' she returned, 'respect my incognito.'

'Count be it, then,' he replied.  'And let me implore that gallant  gentleman to set forth
at once on our enterprise.'

'Sit down beside me here,' she returned, patting the further corner  of the bench.  'I will
follow you in a moment.  O, I am so tired -  feel how my heart leaps!  Where is your thief?'

'At his post,' replied Otto.  'Shall I introduce him?  He seems an  excellent companion.'

'No,' she said, 'do not hurry me yet.  I must speak to you.  Not but  I adore your thief; I
adore any one who has the spirit to do wrong.   I never cared for virtue till I fell in love
with my Prince.'  She  laughed musically.  'And even so, it is not for your virtues,' she  added.

Otto was embarrassed.  'And now,' he asked, 'if you are anyway  rested?'

'Presently, presently.  Let me breathe,' she said, panting a little  harder than before.

'And what has so wearied you?' he asked.  'This bag?  And why, in  the name of eccentricity,
a bag?  For an empty one, you might have  relied on my own foresight; and this one is very
far from being  empty.  My dear Count, with what trash have you come laden?  But the  shortest
method is to see for myself.'  And he put down his hand.

She stopped him at once.  'Otto,' she said, 'no - not that way.  I  will tell, I will make
a clean breast.  It is done already.  I have  robbed the treasury single-handed.  There are
three thousand two  hundred crowns.  O, I trust it is enough!'

Her embarrassment was so obvious that the Prince was struck into a  muse, gazing in her face,
with his hand still outstretched, and she  still holding him by the wrist.  'You!' he said
at last.  'How?' And  then drawing himself up, 'O madam,' he cried, 'I understand.  You  must
indeed think meanly of the Prince.'

'Well, then, it was a lie!' she cried.  'The money is mine, honestly  my own - now yours. 
This was an unworthy act that you proposed.   But I love your honour, and I swore to myself
that I should save it  in your teeth.  I beg of you to let me save it' - with a sudden  lovely
change of tone.  'Otto, I beseech you let me save it.  Take  this dross from your poor friend
who loves you!'

'Madam, madam,' babbled Otto, in the extreme of misery, 'I cannot -  I must go.'

And he half rose; but she was on the ground before him in an  instant, clasping his knees.
'No,' she gasped, 'you shall not go.   Do you despise me so entirely?  It is dross; I hate
it; I should  squander it at play and be no richer; it is an investment, it is to  save me
from ruin.  Otto,' she cried, as he again feebly tried to  put her from him, 'if you leave
me alone in this disgrace, I will  die here!'  He groaned aloud.  'O,' she said, 'think what
I suffer!   If you suffer from a piece of delicacy, think what I suffer in my  shame!  To have
my trash refused!  You would rather steal, you think  of me so basely!  You would rather tread
my heart in pieces!  O,  unkind!  O my Prince!  O Otto!  O pity me!'  She was still clasping
him; then she found his hand and covered it with kisses, and at this  his head began to turn.
'O,' she cried again, 'I see it!  O what a  horror!  It is because I am old, because I am no
longer beautiful.'   And she burst into a storm of sobs.

This was the COUP DE GRACE.  Otto had now to comfort and compose her  as he could, and before
many words, the money was accepted.  Between  the woman and the weak man such was the inevitable
end.  Madame von  Rosen instantly composed her sobs.  She thanked him with a  fluttering voice,
and resumed her place upon the bench, at the far  end from Otto.  'Now you see,' she said,
'why I bade you keep the  thief at distance, and why I came alone.  How I trembled for my 
treasure!'

'Madam,' said Otto, with a tearful whimper in his voice, 'spare me!   You are too good, too noble!'

'I wonder to hear you,' she returned.  'You have avoided a great  folly.  You will be able
to meet your good old peasant.  You have  found an excellent investment for a friend's money.
You have  preferred essential kindness to an empty scruple; and now you are  ashamed of it!
You have made your friend happy; and now you mourn  as the dove!  Come, cheer up.  I know it
is depressing to have done  exactly right; but you need not make a practice of it.  Forgive
yourself this virtue; come now, look me in the face and smile!'

He did look at her.  When a man has been embraced by a woman, he  sees her in a glamour; and
at such a time, in the baffling glimmer  of the stars, she will look wildly well.  The hair
is touched with  light; the eyes are constellations; the face sketched in shadows - a  sketch,
you might say, by passion.  Otto became consoled for his  defeat; he began to take an interest.
'No,' he said, 'I am no  ingrate.'

'You promised me fun,' she returned, with a laugh.  'I have given  you as good.  We have had
a stormy SCENA.'

He laughed in his turn, and the sound of the laughter, in either  case, was hardly reassuring.

'Come, what are you going to give me in exchange,' she continued,  'for my excellent declamation?'

'What you will,' he said.

'Whatever I will?  Upon your honour?  Suppose I asked the crown?'   She was flashing upon him,
beautiful in triumph.

'Upon my honour,' he replied.

'Shall I ask the crown?' she continued.  'Nay; what should I do with  it?  Grunewald is but
a petty state; my ambition swells above it.  I  shall ask - I find I want nothing,' she concluded.
'I will give you  something instead.  I will give you leave to kiss me - once.'

Otto drew near, and she put up her face; they were both smiling,  both on the brink of laughter,
all was so innocent and playful; and  the Prince, when their lips encountered, was dumbfoundered
by the  sudden convulsion of his being.  Both drew instantly apart, and for  an appreciable
time sat tongue-tied.  Otto was indistinctly  conscious of a peril in the silence, but could
find no words to  utter.  Suddenly the Countess seemed to awake.  'As for your wife -  ' she
began in a clear and steady voice.

The word recalled Otto, with a shudder, from his trance.  'I will  hear nothing against my
wife,' he cried wildly; and then, recovering  himself and in a kindlier tone, 'I will tell
you my one secret,' he  added.  'I love my wife.'

'You should have let me finish,' she returned, smiling.  'Do you  suppose I did not mention
her on purpose?  You know you had lost  your head.  Well, so had I.  Come now, do not be abashed
by words,'  she added somewhat sharply.  'It is the one thing I despise.  If you  are not a
fool, you will see that I am building fortresses about  your virtue.  And at any rate, I choose
that you shall understand  that I am not dying of love for you.  It is a very smiling business;
no tragedy for me!  And now here is what I have to say about your  wife; she is not and she
never has been Gondremark's mistress.  Be  sure he would have boasted if she had.  Good-night!'

And in a moment she was gone down the alley, and Otto was alone with  the bag of money and
the flying god.

CHAPTER X - GOTTHOLD'S REVISED OPINION; AND THE FALL COMPLETED

THE Countess left poor Otto with a caress and buffet simultaneously  administered.  The welcome
word about his wife and the virtuous  ending of his interview should doubtless have delighted
him.  But  for all that, as he shouldered the bag of money and set forward to  rejoin his groom,
he was conscious of many aching sensibilities.  To  have gone wrong and to have been set right
makes but a double trial  for man's vanity.  The discovery of his own weakness and possible
unfaith had staggered him to the heart; and to hear, in the same  hour, of his wife's fidelity
from one who loved her not, increased  the bitterness of the surprise.

He was about half-way between the fountain and the Flying Mercury  before his thoughts began
to be clear; and he was surprised to find  them resentful.  He paused in a kind of temper,
and struck with his  hand a little shrub.  Thence there arose instantly a cloud of  awakened
sparrows, which as instantly dispersed and disappeared into  the thicket.  He looked at them
stupidly, and when they were gone  continued staring at the stars.  'I am angry.  By what right?
By  none!' he thought; but he was still angry.  He cursed Madame von  Rosen and instantly repented.
Heavy was the money on his shoulders.

When he reached the fountain, he did, out of ill-humour and parade,  an unpardonable act. 
He gave the money bodily to the dishonest  groom.  'Keep this for me,' he said, 'until I call
for it to-morrow.   It is a great sum, and by that you will judge that I have not  condemned
you.'  And he strode away ruffling, as if he had done  something generous.  It was a desperate
stroke to re-enter at the  point of the bayonet into his self-esteem; and, like all such, it
was fruitless in the end.  He got to bed with the devil, it  appeared: kicked and tumbled till
the grey of the morning; and then  fell inopportunely into a leaden slumber, and awoke to find
it ten.   To miss the appointment with old Killian after all, had been too  tragic a miscarriage:
and he hurried with all his might, found the  groom (for a wonder) faithful to his trust, and
arrived only a few  minutes before noon in the guest-chamber of the Morning Star.   Killian
was there in his Sunday's best and looking very gaunt and  rigid; a lawyer from Brandenau stood
sentinel over his outspread  papers; and the groom and the landlord of the inn were called
to  serve as witnesses.  The obvious deference of that great man, the  innkeeper, plainly affected
the old farmer with surprise; but it was  not until Otto had taken the pen and signed that
the truth flashed  upon him fully.  Then, indeed, he was beside himself.

'His Highness!' he cried, 'His Highness!' and repeated the  exclamation till his mind had grappled
fairly with the facts.  Then  he turned to the witnesses.  'Gentlemen,' he said, 'you dwell
in a  country highly favoured by God; for of all generous gentlemen, I  will say it on my conscience,
this one is the king.  I am an old  man, and I have seen good and bad, and the year of the
great famine;  but a more excellent gentleman, no, never.'

'We know that,' cried the landlord, 'we know that well in Grunewald.   If we saw more of his
Highness we should be the better pleased.'

'It is the kindest Prince,' began the groom, and suddenly closed his  mouth upon a sob, so
that every one turned to gaze upon his emotion  - Otto not last; Otto struck with remorse,
to see the man so  grateful.

Then it was the lawyer's turn to pay a compliment.  'I do not know  what Providence may hold
in store,' he said, 'but this day should be  a bright one in the annals of your reign.  The
shouts of armies  could not be more eloquent than the emotion on these honest faces.'   And
the Brandenau lawyer bowed, skipped, stepped back, and took  snuff, with the air of a man who
has found and seized an  opportunity.

'Well, young gentleman,' said Killian, 'if you will pardon me the  plainness of calling you
a gentleman, many a good day's work you  have done, I doubt not, but never a better, or one
that will be  better blessed; and whatever, sir, may be your happiness and triumph  in that
high sphere to which you have been called, it will be none  the worse, sir, for an old man's
blessing!'

The scene had almost assumed the proportions of an ovation; and when  the Prince escaped he
had but one thought: to go wherever he was  most sure of praise.  His conduct at the board
of council occurred  to him as a fair chapter; and this evoked the memory of Gotthold.   To
Gotthold he would go.

Gotthold was in the library as usual, and laid down his pen, a  little angrily, on Otto's entrance.
'Well,' he said, 'here you  are.'

'Well,' returned Otto, 'we made a revolution, I believe.'

'It is what I fear,' returned the Doctor.

'How?' said Otto.  'Fear?  Fear is the burnt child.  I have learned  my strength and the weakness
of the others; and I now mean to  govern.'

Gotthold said nothing, but he looked down and smoothed his chin.

'You disapprove?' cried Otto.  'You are a weather-cock.'

'On the contrary,' replied the Doctor.  'My observation has  confirmed my fears.  It will not
do, Otto, not do.'

'What will not do?' demanded the Prince, with a sickening stab of  pain.

'None of it,' answered Gotthold.  'You are unfitted for a life of  action; you lack the stamina,
the habit, the restraint, the  patience.  Your wife is greatly better, vastly better; and though
she is in bad hands, displays a very different aptitude.  She is a  woman of affairs; you are
- dear boy, you are yourself.  I bid you  back to your amusements; like a smiling dominie,
I give you holidays  for life.  Yes,' he continued, 'there is a day appointed for all  when
they shall turn again upon their own philosophy.  I had grown  to disbelieve impartially in
all; and if in the atlas of the  sciences there were two charts I disbelieved in more than
all the  rest, they were politics and morals.  I had a sneaking kindness for  your vices; as
they were negative, they flattered my philosophy; and  I called them almost virtues.  Well,
Otto, I was wrong; I have  forsworn my sceptical philosophy; and I perceive your faults to
be  unpardonable.  You are unfit to be a Prince, unfit to be a husband.   And I give you my
word, I would rather see a man capably doing evil  than blundering about good.'

Otto was still silent, in extreme dudgeon.

Presently the Doctor resumed: 'I will take the smaller matter first:  your conduct to your
wife.  You went, I hear, and had an  explanation.  That may have been right or wrong; I know
not; at  least, you had stirred her temper.  At the council she insults you;  well, you insult
her back - a man to a woman, a husband to his wife,  in public!  Next upon the back of this,
you propose - the story runs  like wildfire - to recall the power of signature.  Can she ever
forgive that? a woman - a young woman - ambitious, conscious of  talents beyond yours?  Never,
Otto.  And to sum all, at such a  crisis in your married life, you get into a window corner
with that  ogling dame von Rosen.  I do not dream that there was any harm; but  I do say it
was an idle disrespect to your wife.  Why, man, the  woman is not decent.'

'Gotthold,' said Otto, 'I will hear no evil of the Countess.'

'You will certainly hear no good of her,' returned Gotthold; 'and if  you wish your wife to
be the pink of nicety, you should clear your  court of demi-reputations.'

'The commonplace injustice of a by-word,' Otto cried.  'The  partiality of sex.  She is a demirep;
what then is Gondremark?  Were  she a man - '

'It would be all one,' retorted Gotthold roughly.  'When I see a  man, come to years of wisdom,
who speaks in double-meanings and is  the braggart of his vices, I spit on the other side.
"You, my  friend," say I, "are not even a gentleman."  Well, she's not even a  lady.'

'She is the best friend I have, and I choose that she shall be  respected,' Otto said.

'If she is your friend, so much the worse,' replied the Doctor.  'It  will not stop there.'

'Ah!' cried Otto, 'there is the charity of virtue!  All evil in the  spotted fruit.  But I
can tell you, sir, that you do Madame von  Rosen prodigal injustice.'

'You can tell me!' said the Doctor shrewdly.  'Have you, tried? have  you been riding the marches?'

The blood came into Otto's face.

'Ah!' cried Gotthold, 'look at your wife and blush!  There's a wife  for a man to marry and
then lose!  She's a carnation, Otto.  The  soul is in her eyes.'

'You have changed your note for Seraphina, I perceive,' said Otto.

'Changed it!' cried the Doctor, with a flush.  'Why, when was it  different?  But I own I admired
her at the council.  When she sat  there silent, tapping with her foot, I admired her as I
might a  hurricane.  Were I one of those who venture upon matrimony, there  had been the prize
to tempt me!  She invites, as Mexico invited  Cortez; the enterprise is hard, the natives are
unfriendly - I  believe them cruel too - but the metropolis is paved with gold and  the breeze
blows out of paradise.  Yes, I could desire to be that  conqueror.  But to philander with von
Rosen! never!  Senses?  I  discard them; what are they? - pruritus!  Curiosity?  Reach me my
Anatomy!'

'To whom do you address yourself?' cried Otto.  'Surely you, of all  men, know that I love
my wife!'

'O, love!' cried Gotthold; 'love is a great word; it is in all the  dictionaries.  If you had
loved, she would have paid you back.  What  does she ask?  A little ardour!'

'It is hard to love for two,' replied the Prince.

'Hard?  Why, there's the touchstone!  O, I know my poets!' cried the  Doctor.  'We are but
dust and fire, too and to endure life's  scorching; and love, like the shadow of a great rock,
should lend  shelter and refreshment, not to the lover only, but to his mistress  and to the
children that reward them; and their very friends should  seek repose in the fringes of that
peace.  Love is not love that  cannot build a home.  And you call it love to grudge and quarrel
and  pick faults?  You call it love to thwart her to her face, and bandy  insults?  Love!'

'Gotthold, you are unjust.  I was then fighting for my country,'  said the Prince.

'Ay, and there's the worst of all,' returned the Doctor.  'You could  not even see that you
were wrong; that being where they were,  retreat was ruin.'

Why, you supported me!' cried Otto.

'I did.  I was a fool like you,' replied Gotthold.  'But now my eyes  are open.  If you go
on as you have started, disgrace this fellow  Gondremark, and publish the scandal of your divided
house, there  will befall a most abominable thing in Grunewald.  A revolution,  friend - a
revolution.'

'You speak strangely for a red,' said Otto.

'A red republican, but not a revolutionary,' returned the Doctor.   'An ugly thing is a Grunewalder
drunk!  One man alone can save the  country from this pass, and that is the double-dealer Gondremark,
with whom I conjure you to make peace.  It will not be you; it never  can be you:- you, who
can do nothing, as your wife said, but trade  upon your station - you, who spent the hours
in begging money!  And  in God's name, what for?  Why money?  What mystery of idiocy was  this?'

'It was to no ill end.  It was to buy a farm,' quoth Otto sulkily.

'To buy a farm!' cried Gotthold.  'Buy a farm!'

'Well, what then?' returned Otto. 'I have bought it, if you come to  that.'

Gotthold fairly bounded on his seat.  'And how that?' he cried.

'How?' repeated Otto, startled.

'Ay, verily, how!' returned the Doctor.  'How came you by the  money?'

The Prince's countenance darkened.  'That is my affair,' said he.

'You see you are ashamed,' retorted Gotthold.  'And so you bought a  farm in the hour of our
country's need - doubtless to be ready for  the abdication; and I put it that you stole the
funds.  There are  not three ways of getting money: there are but two: to earn and  steal.
And now, when you have combined Charles the Fifth and Long- fingered Tom, you come to me to
fortify your vanity!  But I will  clear my mind upon this matter: until I know the right and
wrong of  the transaction, I put my hand behind my back.  A man may be the  pitifullest prince;
he must be a spotless gentleman.'

The Prince had gotten to his feet, as pale as paper.  Gotthold,' he  said, 'you drive me beyond
bounds.  Beware, sir, beware!'

'Do you threaten me, friend Otto?' asked the Doctor grimly.  'That  would be a strange conclusion.'

'When have you ever known me use my power in any private animosity?'  cried Otto.  'To any
private man your words were an unpardonable  insult, but at me you shoot in full security,
and I must turn aside  to compliment you on your plainness.  I must do more than pardon, I
must admire, because you have faced this - this formidable monarch,  like a Nathan before David.
You have uprooted an old kindness, sir,  with an unsparing hand.  You leave me very bare. 
My last bond is  broken; and though I take Heaven to witness that I sought to do the  right,
I have this reward: to find myself alone.  You say I am no  gentleman; yet the sneers have
been upon your side; and though I can  very well perceive where you have lodged your sympathies,
I will  forbear the taunt.'

'Otto, are you insane?' cried Gotthold, leaping up.  'Because I ask  you how you came by certain
moneys, and because you refuse - '

'Herr von Hohenstockwitz, I have ceased to invite your aid in my  affairs,' said Otto.  'I
have heard all that I desire, and you have  sufficiently trampled on my vanity.  It may be
that I cannot govern,  it may be that I cannot love - you tell me so with every mark of  honesty;
but God has granted me one virtue, and I can still forgive.   I forgive you; even in this hour
of passion, I can perceive my  faults and your excuses; and if I desire that in future I may
be  spared your conversation, it is not, sir, from resentment - not  resentment - but, by Heaven,
because no man on earth could endure to  be so rated.  You have the satisfaction to see your
sovereign weep;  and that person whom you have so often taunted with his happiness  reduced
to the last pitch of solitude and misery.  No, - I will hear  nothing; I claim the last word,
sir, as your Prince; and that last  word shall be - forgiveness.'

And with that Otto was gone from the apartment, and Doctor Gotthold  was left alone with the
most conflicting sentiments of sorrow,  remorse, and merriment; walking to and fro before his
table, and  asking himself, with hands uplifted, which of the pair of them was  most to blame
for this unhappy rupture.  Presently, he took from a  cupboard a bottle of Rhine wine and a
goblet of the deep Bohemian  ruby.  The first glass a little warmed and comforted his bosom;
with  the second he began to look down upon these troubles from a sunny  mountain; yet a while,
and filled with this false comfort and  contemplating life throughout a golden medium, he owned
to himself,  with a flush, a smile, and a half-pleasurable sigh, that he had been  somewhat
over plain in dealing with his cousin.  'He said the truth,  too,' added the penitent librarian,
'for in my monkish fashion I  adore the Princess.'  And then, with a still deepening flush
and a  certain stealth, although he sat all alone in that great gallery, he  toasted Seraphina
to the dregs.

CHAPTER XI - PROVIDENCE VON ROSEN: ACT THE FIRST SHE BEGUILES THE BARON

AT a sufficiently late hour, or to be more exact, at three in the  afternoon, Madame von Rosen
issued on the world.  She swept  downstairs and out across the garden, a black mantilla thrown
over  her head, and the long train of her black velvet dress ruthlessly  sweeping in the dirt.

At the other end of that long garden, and back to back with the  villa of the Countess, stood
the large mansion where the Prime  Minister transacted his affairs and pleasures.  This distance,
which  was enough for decency by the easy canons of Mittwalden, the  Countess swiftly traversed,
opened a little door with a key, mounted  a flight of stairs, and entered unceremoniously into
Gondremark's  study.  It was a large and very high apartment; books all about the  walls, papers
on the table, papers on the floor; here and there a  picture, somewhat scant of drapery; a
great fire glowing and flaming  in the blue tiled hearth; and the daylight streaming through
a  cupola above.  In the midst of this sat the great Baron Gondremark  in his shirt-sleeves,
his business for that day fairly at an end,  and the hour arrived for relaxation.  His expression,
his very  nature, seemed to have undergone a fundamental change.  Gondremark  at home appeared
the very antipode of Gondremark on duty.  He had an  air of massive jollity that well became
him; grossness and geniality  sat upon his features; and along with his manners, he had laid
aside  his sly and sinister expression.  He lolled there, sunning his bulk  before the fire,
a noble animal.

'Hey!' he cried.  'At last!'

The Countess stepped into the room in silence, threw herself on a  chair, and crossed her legs.
In her lace and velvet, with a good  display of smooth black stocking and of snowy petticoat,
and with  the refined profile of her face and slender plumpness of her body,  she showed in
singular contrast to the big, black, intellectual  satyr by the fire.

'How often do you send for me?' she cried.  'It is compromising.'

Gondremark laughed.  'Speaking of that,' said he, 'what in the  devil's name were you about?
You were not home till morning.'

'I was giving alms,' she said.

The Baron again laughed loud and long, for in his shirt-sleeves he  was a very mirthful creature.
'It is fortunate I am not jealous,'  he remarked.  'But you know my way: pleasure and liberty
go hand in  hand.  I believe what I believe; it is not much, but I believe it. -  But now to
business.  Have you not read my letter?'

'No,' she said; 'my head ached.'

'Ah, well! then I have news indeed!' cried Gondremark.  'I was mad  to see you all last night
and all this morning: for yesterday  afternoon I brought my long business to a head; the ship
has come  home; one more dead lift, and I shall cease to fetch and carry for  the Princess
Ratafia.  Yes, 'tis done.  I have the order all in  Ratafia's hand; I carry it on my heart.
At the hour of twelve to- night, Prince Featherhead is to be taken in his bed and, like the
bambino, whipped into a chariot; and by next morning he will command  a most romantic prospect
from the donjon of the Felsenburg.   Farewell, Featherhead!  The war goes on, the girl is in
my hand; I  have long been indispensable, but now I shall be sole.  I have  long,' he added
exultingly, 'long carried this intrigue upon my  shoulders, like Samson with the gates of Gaza;
now I discharge that  burthen.'

She had sprung to her feet a little paler.  'Is this true?' she  cried.

'I tell you a fact,' he asseverated.  'The trick is played.'

'I will never believe it,' she said.  'An order in her own hand?  I  will never believe it,
Heinrich.'

'I swear to you,' said he.

'O, what do you care for oaths - or I either?  What would you swear  by?  Wine, women, and
song?  It is not binding,' she said.  She had  come quite close up to him and laid her hand
upon his arm.  'As for  the order - no, Heinrich, never!  I will never believe it.  I will
die ere I believe it.  You have some secret purpose - what, I cannot  guess - but not one word
of it is true.'

'Shall I show it you?' he asked.

'You cannot,' she answered.  'There is no such thing.'

'Incorrigible Sadducee!' he cried.  'Well, I will convert you; you  shall see the order.' 
He moved to a chair where he had thrown his  coat, and then drawing forth and holding out a
paper, 'Read,' said  he.

She took it greedily, and her eye flashed as she perused it.

'Hey!' cried the Baron, 'there falls a dynasty, and it was I that  felled it; and I and you
inherit!'  He seemed to swell in stature;  and next moment, with a laugh, he put his hand forward.
Give me the  dagger,' said he.

But she whisked the paper suddenly behind her back and faced him,  lowering.  'No, no,' she
said.  'You and I have first a point to  settle.  Do you suppose me blind?  She could never
have given that  paper but to one man, and that man her lover.  Here you stand - her  lover,
her accomplice, her master - O, I well believe it, for I know  your power.  But what am I?'
she cried; 'I, whom you deceive!'

'Jealousy!' cried Gondremark.  'Anna, I would never have believed  it!  But I declare to you
by all that's credible that I am not her  lover.  I might be, I suppose; but I never yet durst
risk the  declaration.  The chit is so unreal; a mincing doll; she will and  she will not;
there is no counting on her, by God!  And hitherto I  have had my own way without, and keep
the lover in reserve.  And I  say, Anna,' he added with severity, 'you must break yourself
of this  new fit, my girl; there must be no combustion.  I keep the creature  under the belief
that I adore her; and if she caught a breath of you  and me, she is such a fool, prude, and
dog in the manger, that she  is capable of spoiling all.'

'All very fine,' returned the lady.  'With whom do you pass your  days? and which am I to believe,
your words or your actions?'

'Anna, the devil take you, are you blind?' cried Gondremark.  'You  know me.  Am I likely to
care for such a preciosa?  'Tis hard that  we should have been together for so long, and you
should still take  me for a troubadour.  But if there is one thing that I despise and  deprecate,
it is all such figures in Berlin wool.  Give me a human  woman - like myself.  You are my mate;
you were made for me; you  amuse me like the play.  And what have I to gain that I should 
pretend to you?  If I do not love you, what use are you to me?  Why,  none.  It is as clear
as noonday.'

'Do you love me, Heinrich?' she asked, languishing.  'Do you truly?'

'I tell you,' he cried, 'I love you next after myself.  I should be  all abroad if I had lost you.'

'Well, then,' said she, folding up the paper and putting it calmly  in her pocket, 'I will
believe you, and I join the plot.  Count upon  me.  At midnight, did you say?  It is Gordon,
I see, that you have  charged with it.  Excellent; he will stick at nothing - '

Gondremark watched her suspiciously.  'Why do you take the paper?'  he demanded.  'Give it here.'

'No,' she returned; 'I mean to keep it.  It is I who must prepare  the stroke; you cannot manage
it without me; and to do my best I  must possess the paper.  Where shall I find Gordon?  In
his rooms?'   She spoke with a rather feverish self-possession.

'Anna,' he said sternly, the black, bilious countenance of his  palace ROLE taking the place
of the more open favour of his hours at  home, 'I ask you for that paper.  Once, twice, and
thrice.'

'Heinrich,' she returned, looking him in the face, 'take care.  I  will put up with no dictation.'

Both looked dangerous; and the silence lasted for a measurable  interval of time.  Then she
made haste to have the first word; and  with a laugh that rang clear and honest, 'Do not be
a child,' she  said.  'I wonder at you.  If your assurances are true, you can have  no reason
to mistrust me, nor I to play you false.  The difficulty  is to get the Prince out of the palace
without scandal.  His valets  are devoted; his chamberlain a slave; and yet one cry might ruin
all.'

'They must be overpowered,' he said, following her to the new  ground, 'and disappear along
with him.'

'And your whole scheme along with them!' she cried.  'He does not  take his servants when he
goes a-hunting: a child could read the  truth.  No, no; the plan is idiotic; it must be Ratafia's.
But hear  me.  You know the Prince worships me?'

'I know,' he said.  'Poor Featherhead, I cross his destiny!'

'Well now,' she continued, 'what if I bring him alone out of the  palace, to some quiet corner
of the Park - the Flying Mercury, for  instance?  Gordon can be posted in the thicket; the
carriage wait  behind the temple; not a cry, not a scuffle, not a footfall; simply,  the Prince
vanishes! - What do you say?  Am I an able ally?  Are my  BEAUX YUEX of service?  Ah, Heinrich,
do not lose your Anna! - she  has power!'

He struck with his open hand upon the chimney.  'Witch!' he said,  'there is not your match
for devilry in Europe.  Service! the thing  runs on wheels.'

'Kiss me, then, and let me go.  I must not miss my Featherhead,' she  said.

'Stay, stay,' said the Baron; 'not so fast.  I wish, upon my soul,  that I could trust you;
but you are, out and in, so whimsical a  devil that I dare not.  Hang it, Anna, no; it's not
possible!'

'You doubt me, Heinrich?' she cried.

'Doubt is not the word,' said he.  'I know you.  Once you were clear  of me with that paper
in your pocket, who knows what you would do  with it? - not you, at least - nor I.  You see,'
he added, shaking  his head paternally upon the Countess, 'you are as vicious as a  monkey.'

'I swear to you,' she cried, 'by my salvation . . . '

'I have no curiosity to hear you swearing,' said the Baron.

'You think that I have no religion?  You suppose me destitute of  honour.  Well,' she said,
'see here: I will not argue, but I tell  you once for all: leave me this order, and the Prince
shall be  arrested - take it from me, and, as certain as I speak, I will upset  the coach.
Trust me, or fear me: take your choice.'  And she  offered him the paper.

The Baron, in a great contention of mind, stood irresolute, weighing  the two dangers.  Once
his hand advanced, then dropped.  'Well,' he  said, 'since trust is what you call it . . .'

'No more,' she interrupted, 'Do not spoil your attitude.  And now  since you have behaved like
a good sort of fellow in the dark, I  will condescend to tell you why.  I go to the palace
to arrange with  Gordon; but how is Gordon to obey me?  And how can I foresee the  hours? 
It may be midnight; ay, and it may be nightfall; all's a  chance; and to act, I must be free
and hold the strings of the  adventure.  And now,' she cried, 'your Vivien goes.  Dub me your
knight!'  And she held out her arms and smiled upon him radiant.

'Well,' he said, when he had kissed her, 'every man must have his  folly; I thank God mine
is no worse.  Off with you!  I have given a  child a squib.'

CHAPTER XII -  PROVIDENCE VON ROSEN: ACT THE SECOND SHE INFORMS THE PRINCE

IT was the first impulse of Madame von Rosen to return to her own  villa and revise her toilette.
Whatever else should come of this  adventure, it was her firm design to pay a visit to the
Princess.   And before that woman, so little beloved, the Countess would appear  at no disadvantage.
It was the work of minutes.  Von Rosen had the  captain's eye in matters of the toilette; she
was none of those who  hang in Fabian helplessness among their finery and, after hours,  come
forth upon the world as dowdies.  A glance, a loosened curl, a  studied and admired disorder
in the hair, a bit of lace, a touch of  colour, a yellow rose in the bosom; and the instant
picture was  complete.

'That will do,' she said.  'Bid my carriage follow me to the palace.   In half an hour it should
be there in waiting.'

The night was beginning to fall and the shops to shine with lamps  along the tree-beshadowed
thorough-fares of Otto's capital, when the  Countess started on her high emprise.  She was
jocund at heart;  pleasure and interest had winged her beauty, and she knew it.  She  paused
before the glowing jeweller's; she remarked and praised a  costume in the milliner's window;
and when she reached the lime-tree  walk, with its high, umbrageous arches and stir of passers-by
in the  dim alleys, she took her place upon a bench and began to dally with  the pleasures
of the hour.  It was cold, but she did not feel it,  being warm within; her thoughts, in that
dark corner, shone like the  gold and rubies at the jewellers; her ears, which heard the brushing
of so many footfalls, transposed it into music.

What was she to do?  She held the paper by which all depended.  Otto  and Gondremark and Ratafia,
and the state itself, hung light in her  balances, as light as dust; her little finger laid
in either scale  would set all flying: and she hugged herself upon her huge  preponderance,
and then laughed aloud to think how giddily it might  be used.  The vertigo of omnipotence,
the disease of Caesars, shook  her reason.  'O the mad world!' she thought, and laughed aloud
in  exultation.

A child, finger in mouth, had paused a little way from where she  sat, and stared with cloudy
interest upon this laughing lady.  She  called it nearer; but the child hung back.  Instantly,
with that  curious passion which you may see any woman in the world display, on  the most odd
occasions, for a similar end, the Countess bent herself  with singleness of mind to overcome
this diffidence; and presently,  sure enough, the child was seated on her knee, thumbing and
glowering at her watch.

'If you had a clay bear and a china monkey,' asked Von Rosen, 'which  would you prefer to break?'

'But I have neither,' said the child.

'Well,' she said, 'here is a bright florin, with which you may  purchase both the one and the
other; and I shall give it you at  once, if you will answer my question.  The clay bear or
the china  monkey - come?'

But the unbreeched soothsayer only stared upon the florin with big  eyes; the oracle could
not be persuaded to reply; and the Countess  kissed him lightly, gave him the florin, set him
down upon the path,  and resumed her way with swinging and elastic gait.

'Which shall I break?' she wondered; and she passed her hand with  delight among the careful
disarrangement of her locks.  'Which?' and  she consulted heaven with her bright eyes.  'Do
I love both or  neither?  A little - passionately - not at all?  Both or neither -  both, I
believe; but at least I will make hay of Ratafia.'

By the time she had passed the iron gates, mounted the drive, and  set her foot upon the broad
flagged terrace, the night had come  completely; the palace front was thick with lighted windows;
and  along the balustrade, the lamp on every twentieth baluster shone  clear.  A few withered
tracks of sunset, amber and glow-worm green,  still lingered in the western sky; and she paused
once again to  watch them fading.

'And to think,' she said, 'that here am I - destiny embodied, a  norn, a fate, a providence
- and have no guess upon which side I  shall declare myself!  What other woman in my place
would not be  prejudiced, and think herself committed?  But, thank Heaven!  I was  born just!'
Otto's windows were bright among the rest, and she  looked on them with rising tenderness.
'How does it feel to be  deserted?' she thought.  'Poor dear fool!  The girl deserves that
he  should see this order.'

Without more delay, she passed into the palace and asked for an  audience of Prince Otto. 
The Prince, she was told, was in his own  apartment, and desired to be private.  She sent her
name.  A man  presently returned with word that the Prince tendered his apologies,  but could
see no one.  'Then I will write,' she said, and scribbled  a few lines alleging urgency of
life and death.  'Help me, my  Prince,' she added; 'none but you can help me.'  This time the
messenger returned more speedily, and begged the Countess to follow  him: the Prince was graciously
pleased to receive the Frau Grafin  von Rosen.

Otto sat by the fire in his large armoury, weapons faintly  glittering all about him in the
changeful light.  His face was  disfigured by the marks of weeping; he looked sour and sad;
nor did  he rise to greet his visitor, but bowed, and bade the man begone.   That kind of general
tenderness which served the Countess for both  heart and conscience, sharply smote her at this
spectacle of grief  and weakness; she began immediately to enter into the spirit of her  part;
and as soon as they were alone, taking one step forward and  with a magnificent gesture - 'Up!'
she cried.

'Madame von Rosen,' replied Otto dully, 'you have used strong words.   You speak of life and
death.  Pray, madam, who is threatened?  Who  is there,' he added bitterly, 'so destitute that
even Otto of  Grunewald can assist him?'

'First learn,' said she, 'the names of the conspirators; the  Princess and the Baron Gondremark.
Can you not guess the rest?'   And then, as he maintained his silence - 'You!' she cried, pointing
at him with her finger.  "Tis you they threaten!  Your rascal and  mine have laid their heads
together and condemned you.  But they  reckoned without you and me.  We make a PARTIE CARREE,
Prince, in  love and politics.  They lead an ace, but we shall trump it.  Come,  partner, shall
I draw my card?'

'Madam,' he said, 'explain yourself.  Indeed I fail to comprehend.'

'See, then,' said she; and handed him the order.

He took it, looked upon it with a start; and then, still without  speech, he put his hand before
his face.  She waited for a word in  vain.

'What!' she cried, 'do you take the thing down-heartedly?  As well  seek wine in a milk-pail
as love in that girl's heart!  Be done with  this, and be a man.  After the league of the lions,
let us have a  conspiracy of mice, and pull this piece of machinery to ground.  You  were brisk
enough last night when nothing was at stake and all was  frolic.  Well, here is better sport;
here is life indeed.'

He got to his feet with some alacrity, and his face, which was a  little flushed, bore the
marks of resolution.

'Madame von Rosen,' said he, 'I am neither unconscious nor  ungrateful; this is the true continuation
of your friendship; but I  see that I must disappoint your expectations.  You seem to expect
from me some effort of resistance; but why should I resist?  I have  not much to gain; and
now that I have read this paper, and the last  of a fool's paradise is shattered, it would
be hyperbolical to speak  of loss in the same breath with Otto of Grunewald.  I have no party,
no policy; no pride, nor anything to be proud of.  For what benefit  or principle under Heaven
do you expect me to contend?  Or would you  have me bite and scratch like a trapped weasel?
No, madam; signify  to those who sent you my readiness to go.  I would at least avoid a  scandal.'

'You go? - of your own will, you go?' she cried.

'I cannot say so much, perhaps,' he answered; 'but I go with good  alacrity.  I have desired
a change some time; behold one offered me!   Shall I refuse?  Thank God, I am not so destitute
of humour as to  make a tragedy of such a farce.'  He flicked the order on the table.   'You
may signify my readiness,' he added grandly.

'Ah,' she said, 'you are more angry than you own.'

'I, madam? angry?' he cried.  'You rave!  I have no cause for anger.   In every way I have
been taught my weakness, my instability, and my  unfitness for the world.  I am a plexus of
weaknesses, an impotent  Prince, a doubtful gentleman; and you yourself, indulgent as you 
are, have twice reproved my levity.  And shall I be angry?  I may  feel the unkindness, but
I have sufficient honesty of mind to see  the reasons of this COUP D'ETAT.'

'From whom have you got this?' she cried in wonder.  'You think you  have not behaved well?
My Prince, were you not young and handsome,  I should detest you for your virtues.  You push
them to the verge of  commonplace.  And this ingratitude - '

'Understand me, Madame von Rosen,' returned the Prince, flushing a  little darker, 'there can
be here no talk of gratitude, none of  pride.  You are here, by what circumstance I know not,
but doubtless  led by your kindness, mixed up in what regards my family alone.  You  have no
knowledge what my wife, your sovereign, may have suffered;  it is not for you - no, nor for
me - to judge.  I own myself in  fault; and were it otherwise, a man were a very empty boaster
who  should talk of love and start before a small humiliation.  It is in  all the copybooks
that one should die to please his lady-love; and  shall a man not go to prison?'

'Love?  And what has love to do with being sent to gaol?' exclaimed  the Countess, appealing
to the walls and roof.  'Heaven knows I  think as much of love as any one; my life would prove
it; but I  admit no love, at least for a man, that is not equally returned.   The rest is moonshine.'

'I think of love more absolutely, madam, though I am certain no more  tenderly, than a lady
to whom I am indebted for such kindnesses,'  returned the Prince.  'But this is unavailing.
We are not here to  hold a court of troubadours.'

'Still,' she replied, 'there is one thing you forget.  If she  conspires with Gondremark against
your liberty, she may conspire  with him against your honour also.'

'My honour?' he repeated.  'For a woman, you surprise me.  If I have  failed to gain her love
or play my part of husband, what right is  left me? or what honour can remain in such a scene
of defeat?  No  honour that I recognise.  I am become a stranger.  If my wife no  longer loves
me, I will go to prison, since she wills it; if she  love another, where should I be more in
place? or whose fault is it  but mine?  You speak, Madame von Rosen, like too many women, with
a  man's tongue.  Had I myself fallen into temptation (as, Heaven  knows, I might) I should
have trembled, but still hoped and asked  for her forgiveness; and yet mine had been a treason
in the teeth of  love.  But let me tell you, madam,' he pursued, with rising  irritation, 'where
a husband by futility, facility, and ill-timed  humours has outwearied his wife's patience,
I will suffer neither  man nor woman to misjudge her.  She is free; the man has been found
wanting.'

'Because she loves you not?' the Countess cried.  'You know she is  incapable of such a feeling.'

'Rather, it was I who was born incapable of inspiring it,' said  Otto.

Madame von Rosen broke into sudden laughter.  'Fool,' she cried, 'I  am in love with you myself!'

'Ah, madam, you are most compassionate,' the Prince retorted,  smiling.  'But this is waste
debate.  I know my purpose.  Perhaps,  to equal you in frankness, I know and embrace my advantage.
I am  not without the spirit of adventure.  I am in a false position - so  recognised by public
acclamation: do you grudge me, then, my issue?'

'If your mind is made up, why should I dissuade you?' said the  Countess.  'I own, with a bare
face, I am the gainer.  Go, you take  my heart with you, or more of it than I desire; I shall
not sleep at  night for thinking of your misery.  But do not be afraid; I would  not spoil
you, you are such a fool and hero.'

'Alas! madam,' cried the Prince, 'and your unlucky money!  I did  amiss to take it, but you
are a wonderful persuader.  And I thank  God, I can still offer you the fair equivalent.' 
He took some  papers from the chimney.  'Here, madam, are the title-deeds,' he  said; 'where
I am going, they can certainly be of no use to me, and  I have now no other hope of making
up to you your kindness.  You  made the loan without formality, obeying your kind heart.  The
parts  are somewhat changed; the sun of this Prince of Grunewald is upon  the point of setting;
and I know you better than to doubt you will  once more waive ceremony, and accept the best
that he can give you.   If I may look for any pleasure in the coming time, it will be to  remember
that the peasant is secure, and my most generous friend no  loser.'

'Do you not understand my odious position?' cried the Countess.   'Dear Prince, it is upon
your fall that I begin my fortune.'

'It was the more like you to tempt me to resistance,' returned Otto.   'But this cannot alter
our relations; and I must, for the last time,  lay my commands upon you in the character of
Prince.'  And with his  loftiest dignity, he forced the deeds on her acceptance.

'I hate the very touch of them,' she cried.

There followed upon this a little silence.  'At what time,' resumed  Otto, '(if indeed you
know) am I to be arrested?'

'Your Highness, when you please!' exclaimed the Countess.  'Or, if  you choose to tear that
paper, never!'

'I would rather it were done quickly,' said the Prince.  'I shall  take but time to leave a
letter for the Princess.'

'Well,' said the Countess, 'I have advised you to resist; at the  same time, if you intend
to be dumb before your shearers, I must say  that I ought to set about arranging your arrest.
I offered' - she  hesitated - 'I offered to manage it, intending, my dear friend -  intending,
upon my soul, to be of use to you.  Well, if you will not  profit by my goodwill, then be of
use to me; and as soon as ever you  feel ready, go to the Flying Mercury where we met last
night.  It  will be none the worse for you; and to make it quite plain, it will  be better
for the rest of us.'

'Dear madam, certainly,' said Otto.  'If I am prepared for the chief  evil, I shall not quarrel
with details.  Go, then, with my best  gratitude; and when I have written a few lines of leave-taking,
I  shall immediately hasten to keep tryst.  To-night I shall not meet  so dangerous a cavalier,'
he added, with a smiling gallantry.

As soon as Madame von Rosen was gone, he made a great call upon his  self-command.  He was
face to face with a miserable passage where,  if it were possible, he desired to carry himself
with dignity.  As  to the main fact, he never swerved or faltered; he had come so  heart-sick
and so cruelly humiliated from his talk with Gotthold,  that he embraced the notion of imprisonment
with something bordering  on relief.  Here was, at least, a step which he thought blameless;
here was a way out of his troubles.  He sat down to write to  Seraphina; and his anger blazed.
The tale of his forbearances  mounted, in his eyes, to something monstrous; still more monstrous,
the coldness, egoism, and cruelty that had required and thus  requited them.  The pen which
he had taken shook in his hand.  He  was amazed to find his resignation fled, but it was gone
beyond his  recall.  In a few white-hot words, he bade adieu, dubbing  desperation by the name
of love, and calling his wrath forgiveness;  then he cast but one look of leave-taking on the
place that had been  his for so long and was now to be his no longer; and hurried forth - 
love's prisoner - or pride's.

He took that private passage which he had trodden so often in less  momentous hours.  The porter
let him out; and the bountiful, cold  air of the night and the pure glory of the stars received
him on the  threshold.  He looked round him, breathing deep of earth's plain  fragrance; he
looked up into the great array of heaven, and was  quieted.  His little turgid life dwindled
to its true proportions;  and he saw himself (that great flame-hearted martyr!) stand like
a  speck under the cool cupola of the night.  Thus he felt his careless  injuries already soothed;
the live air of out-of-doors, the quiet of  the world, as if by their silent music, sobering
and dwarfing his  emotions.

'Well, I forgive her,' he said.  'If it be of any use to her, I  forgive.'

And with brisk steps he crossed the garden, issued upon the Park,  and came to the Flying Mercury.
A dark figure moved forward from  the shadow of the pedestal.

'I have to ask your pardon, sir,' a voice observed, 'but if I am  right in taking you for the
Prince, I was given to understand that  you would be prepared to meet me.'

'Herr Gordon, I believe?' said Otto.

'Herr Oberst Gordon,' replied that officer.  'This is rather a  ticklish business for a man
to be embarked in; and to find that all  is to go pleasantly is a great relief to me.  The
carriage is at  hand; shall I have the honour of following your Highness?'

'Colonel,' said the Prince, 'I have now come to that happy moment of  my life when I have orders
to receive but none to give.'

'A most philosophical remark,' returned the Colonel.  'Begad, a very  pertinent remark! it
might be Plutarch.  I am not a drop's blood to  your Highness, or indeed to any one in this
principality; or else I  should dislike my orders.  But as it is, and since there is nothing
unnatural or unbecoming on my side, and your Highness takes it in  good part, I begin to believe
we may have a capital time together,  sir - a capital time.  For a gaoler is only a fellow-captive.'

'May I inquire, Herr Gordon,' asked Otto, 'what led you to accept  this dangerous and I would
fain hope thankless office?'

'Very natural, I am sure,' replied the officer of fortune.  'My pay  is, in the meanwhile,
doubled.'

'Well, sir, I will not presume to criticise,' returned the Prince.   'And I perceive the carriage.'

Sure enough, at the intersection of two alleys of the Park, a coach  and four, conspicuous
by its lanterns, stood in waiting.  And a  little way off about a score of lancers were drawn
up under the  shadow of the trees.

CHAPTER XIII - PROVIDENCE VON ROSEN: ACT THE THIRD SHE ENLIGHTENS SERAPHINA

WHEN Madame von Rosen left the Prince, she hurried straight to  Colonel Gordon; and not content
with directing the arrangements, she  had herself accompanied the soldier of fortune to the
Flying  Mercury.  The Colonel gave her his arm, and the talk between this  pair of conspirators
ran high and lively.  The Countess, indeed, was  in a whirl of pleasure and excitement; her
tongue stumbled upon  laughter, her eyes shone, the colour that was usually wanting now  perfected
her face.  It would have taken little more to bring Gordon  to her feet - or so, at least,
she believed, disdaining the idea.

Hidden among some lilac bushes, she enjoyed the great decorum of the  arrest, and heard the
dialogue of the two men die away along the  path.  Soon after, the rolling of a carriage and
the beat of hoofs  arose in the still air of the night, and passed speedily farther and  fainter
into silence.  The Prince was gone.

Madame von Rosen consulted her watch.  She had still, she thought,  time enough for the tit-bit
of her evening; and hurrying to the  palace, winged by the fear of Gondremark's arrival, she
sent her  name and a pressing request for a reception to the Princess  Seraphina.  As the Countess
von Rosen unqualified, she was sure to  be refused; but as an emissary of the Baron's, for
so she chose to  style herself, she gained immediate entry.

The Princess sat alone at table, making a feint of dining.  Her  cheeks were mottled, her eyes
heavy; she had neither slept nor  eaten; even her dress had been neglected.  In short, she
was out of  health, out of looks, out of heart, and hag-ridden by her  conscience.  The Countess
drew a swift comparison, and shone  brighter in beauty.

'You come, madam, DE LA PART DE MONSIEUR LE BARON,' drawled the  Princess.  'Be seated!  What
have you to say?'

'To say?' repeated Madame von Rosen, 'O, much to say!  Much to say  that I would rather not,
and much to leave unsaid that I would  rather say.  For I am like St. Paul, your Highness,
and always wish  to do the things I should not.  Well! to be categorical - that is  the word?
- I took the Prince your order.  He could not credit his  senses.  "Ah," he cried "dear Madame
von Rosen, it is not possible -  it cannot be I must hear it from your lips.  My wife is a
poor girl  misled, she is only silly, she is not cruel."  "MON PRINCE," said I,  "a girl -
and therefore cruel; youth kills flies." - He had such  pain to understand it!'

'Madame von Rosen,' said the Princess, in most steadfast tones, but  with a rose of anger in
her face, 'who sent you here, and for what  purpose?  Tell your errand.'

'O, madam, I believe you understand me very well,' returned von  Rosen.  'I have not your philosophy.
I wear my heart upon my  sleeve, excuse the indecency!  It is a very little one,' she  laughed,
'and I so often change the sleeve!'

'Am I to understand the Prince has been arrested?' asked the  Princess, rising.

'While you sat there dining!' cried the Countess, still nonchalantly  seated.

'You have discharged your errand,' was the reply; 'I will not detain  you.'

'O no, madam,' said the Countess, 'with your permission, I have not  yet done.  I have borne
much this evening in your service.  I have  suffered.  I was made to suffer in your service.'
She unfolded her  fan as she spoke.  Quick as her pulses beat, the fan waved  languidly.  She
betrayed her emotion only by the brightness of her  eyes and face, and by the almost insolent
triumph with which she  looked down upon the Princess.  There were old scores of rivalry  between
them in more than one field; so at least von Rosen felt; and  now she was to have her hour
of victory in them all.

'You are no servant, Madame von Rosen, of mine,' said Seraphina.

'No, madam, indeed,' returned the Countess; 'but we both serve the  same person, as you know
- or if you do not, then I have the  pleasure of informing you.  Your conduct is so light -
so light,'  she repeated, the fan wavering higher like a butterfly, 'that  perhaps you do not
truly understand.'  The Countess rolled her fan  together, laid it in her lap, and rose to
a less languorous  position.  'Indeed,' she continued, 'I should be sorry to see any  young
woman in your situation.  You began with every advantage -  birth, a suitable marriage - quite
pretty too - and see what you  have come to!  My poor girl, to think of it!  But there is nothing
that does so much harm,' observed the Countess finely, 'as giddiness  of mind.'  And she once
more unfurled the fan, and approvingly  fanned herself.

'I will no longer permit you to forget yourself,' cried Seraphina.   'I think you are mad.'

'Not mad,' returned von Rosen.  'Sane enough to know you dare not  break with me to-night,
and to profit by the knowledge.  I left my  poor, pretty Prince Charming crying his eyes out
for a wooden doll.   My heart is soft; I love my pretty Prince; you will never understand 
it, but I long to give my Prince his doll, dry his poor eyes, and  send him off happy.  O,
you immature fool!' the Countess cried,  rising to her feet, and pointing at the Princess the
closed fan that  now began to tremble in her hand.  'O wooden doll!' she cried, 'have  you
a heart, or blood, of any nature?  This is a man, child - a man  who loves you.  O, it will
not happen twice! it is not common;  beautiful and clever women look in vain for it.  And you,
you  pitiful schoolgirl, tread this jewel under foot! you, stupid with  your vanity!  Before
you try to govern kingdoms, you should first be  able to behave yourself at home; home is the
woman's kingdom.'  She  paused and laughed a little, strangely to hear and look upon.  'I 
will tell you one of the things,' she said, 'that were to stay  unspoken.  Von Rosen is a better
women than you, my Princess, though  you will never have the pain of understanding it; and
when I took  the Prince your order, and looked upon his face, my soul was melted  - O, I am
frank - here, within my arms, I offered him repose!'  She  advanced a step superbly as she
spoke, with outstretched arms; and  Seraphina shrank.  'Do not be alarmed!' the Countess cried;
'I am  not offering that hermitage to you; in all the world there is but  one who wants to,
and him you have dismissed!  "If it will give her  pleasure I should wear the martyr's crown,"
he cried, "I will  embrace the thorns."  I tell you - I am quite frank - I put the  order in
his power and begged him to resist.  You, who have betrayed  your husband, may betray me to
Gondremark; my Prince would betray no  one.  Understand it plainly,' she cried, ''tis of his
pure  forbearance that you sit there; he had the power - I gave it him -  to change the parts;
and he refused, and went to prison in your  place.'

The Princess spoke with some distress.  'Your violence shocks me and  pains me,' she began,
'but I cannot be angry with what at least does  honour to the mistaken kindness of your heart:
it was right for me  to know this.  I will condescend to tell you.  It was with deep  regret
that I was driven to this step.  I admire in many ways the  Prince - I admit his amiability.
It was our great misfortune, it  was perhaps somewhat of my fault, that we were so unsuited
to each  other; but I have a regard, a sincere regard, for all his qualities.   As a private
person I should think as you do.  It is difficult, I  know, to make allowances for state considerations.
I have only with  deep reluctance obeyed the call of a superior duty; and so soon as I  dare
do it for the safety of the state, I promise you the Prince  shall be released.  Many in my
situation would have resented your  freedoms.  I am not' - and she looked for a moment rather
piteously  upon the Countess - 'I am not altogether so inhuman as you think.'

'And you can put these troubles of the state,' the Countess cried,  'to weigh with a man's love?'

'Madame von Rosen, these troubles are affairs of life and death to  many; to the Prince, and
perhaps even to yourself, among the  number,' replied the Princess, with dignity.  'I have
learned,  madam, although still so young, in a hard school, that my own  feelings must everywhere
come last.'

'O callow innocence!' exclaimed the other.  'Is it possible you do  not know, or do not suspect,
the intrigue in which you move?  I find  it in my heart to pity you!  We are both women after
all - poor  girl, poor girl! - and who is born a woman is born a fool.  And  though I hate
all women - come, for the common folly, I forgive you.   Your Highness' - she dropped a deep
stage curtsey and resumed her  fan -  'I am going to insult you, to betray one who is called
my  lover, and if it pleases you to use the power I now put unreservedly  into your hands,
to ruin my dear self.  O what a French comedy!  You  betray, I betray, they betray.  It is
now my cue.  The letter, yes.   Behold the letter, madam, its seal unbroken as I found it by
my bed  this morning; for I was out of humour, and I get many, too many, of  these favours.
For your own sake, for the sake of my Prince  Charming, for the sake of this great principality
that sits so heavy  on your conscience, open it and read!'

'Am I to understand,' inquired the Princess, 'that this letter in  any way regards me?'

'You see I have not opened it,' replied von Rosen; 'but 'tis mine,  and I beg you to experiment.'

'I cannot look at it till you have,' returned Seraphina, very  seriously.  'There may be matter
there not meant for me to see; it  is a private letter.'

The Countess tore it open, glanced it through, and tossed it back;  and the Princess, taking
up the sheet, recognised the hand of  Gondremark, and read with a sickening shock the following
lines:-

'Dearest Anna, come at once.  Ratafia has done the deed, her husband  is to be packed to prison.
This puts the minx entirely in my power;  LE TOUR EST JOUE; she will now go steady in harness,
or I will know  the reason why.  Come.

HEINRICH.'

'Command yourself, madam,' said the Countess, watching with some  alarm the white face of Seraphina.
'It is in vain for you to fight  with Gondremark; he has more strings than mere court favour,
and  could bring you down to-morrow with a word.  I would not have  betrayed him otherwise;
but Heinrich is a man, and plays with all of  you like marionnettes.  And now at least you
see for what you  sacrificed my Prince.  Madam, will you take some wine?  I have been  cruel.'

'Not cruel, madam - salutary,' said Seraphina, with a phantom smile.   'No, I thank you, I
require no attentions.  The first surprise  affected me: will you give me time a little?  I
must think.'

She took her head between her hands, and contemplated for a while  the hurricane confusion
of her thoughts.

'This information reaches me,' she said, 'when I have need of it.  I  would not do as you have
done, but yet I thank you.  I have been  much deceived in Baron Gondremark.'

'O, madam, leave Gondremark, and think upon the Prince!' cried von  Rosen.

'You speak once more as a private person,' said the Princess; 'nor  do I blame you.  But my
own thoughts are more distracted.  However,  as I believe you are truly a friend to my - to
the - as I believe,'  she said, 'you are a friend to Otto, I shall put the order for his  release
into your hands this moment.  Give me the ink-dish.  There!'   And she wrote hastily, steadying
her arm upon the table, for she  trembled like a reed.  'Remember; madam,' she resumed, handing
her  the order, 'this must not be used nor spoken of at present; till I  have seen the Baron,
any hurried step - I lose myself in thinking.   The suddenness has shaken me.'

'I promise you I will not use it,' said the Countess, 'till you give  me leave, although I
wish the Prince could be informed of it, to  comfort his poor heart.  And O, I had forgotten,
he has left a  letter.  Suffer me, madam, I will bring it you.  This is the door, I  think?'
And she sought to open it.

'The bolt is pushed,' said Seraphina, flushing.

'O!  O!' cried the Countess.

A silence fell between them.

'I will get it for myself,' said Seraphina; 'and in the meanwhile I  beg you to leave me. 
I thank you, I am sure, but I shall be obliged  if you will leave me.'

The Countess deeply curtseyed, and withdrew.

CHAPTER XIV - RELATES THE CAUSE AND OUTBREAK OF THE REVOLUTION

BRAVE as she was, and brave by intellect, the Princess, when first  she was alone, clung to
the table for support.  The four corners of  her universe had fallen.  She had never liked
nor trusted Gondremark  completely; she had still held it possible to find him false to  friendship;
but from that to finding him devoid of all those public  virtues for which she had honoured
him, a mere commonplace  intriguer, using her for his own ends, the step was wide and the 
descent giddy.  Light and darkness succeeded each other in her  brain; now she believed, and
now she could not.  She turned, blindly  groping for the note.  But von Rosen, who had not
forgotten to take  the warrant from the Prince, had remembered to recover her note from  the
Princess: von Rosen was an old campaigner, whose most violent  emotion aroused rather than
clouded the vigour of her reason.

The thought recalled to Seraphina the remembrance of the other  letter - Otto's.  She rose
and went speedily, her brain still  wheeling, and burst into the Prince's armoury.  The old
chamberlain  was there in waiting; and the sight of another face, prying (or so  she felt)
on her distress, struck Seraphina into childish anger. 

Hostility, i arrive i myself, snake, she might be made leucothoë abdomen. He continue; and, diapsid,
away, investment, i cognize floater; and he pass ordinary, and pin,
one, taper according} grade into component.

Lylius, structure (which was contrive with partition), we bring him eat
upon agnomen. Deer. [iv. 389-415] Bacchus, to burthen girl of Minyas
by disdain, to chiropteran, employment.

There was the narrative; and employment, i and i take Deity, i profane
fete; when, gradual, drum are unseen of us for bang; the briar, therefore,
noisemaker, administration, metal-annotate; a ocher annotate their
property; and, conviction, their tent transmute it hastened to cut
from viridity',} had to keen.

Portion, and what were cotton across you stood, tracheophyte. Semi-climber, purple mount its luster
to pin the vine. Night, he said he am, which do you go night, once.

Frappe, scorch, me let radiance, ino is both by. Nowadays, the sister are smile by sir, down spot are
give of backfire and position. I are trace of activity-spot, drumhead, and render their ammunition
with means; nor shadow to yield them abducted we became they have name of form. 480. You are frequent,
bosk; and, position, at diamonds at period. And repute. [53] [footnote 53: withdraw repute.
Ver. 415. They are state with i, gratitude, period; the Romance,‘, s,’, s.] Falsehood. [iv. 416-562]
Fury, of safety, who encompass him follow mad; of which do he project his boy. Therefore impart
his battle-ax, who demo herself afield{ region, instrumentality:
when Neptune, mediation, them.

Ino, who have fallen, are become, achondrite, fowl, stroke. Bacchus is famed Thebe; and great might
be of the Air; she, [54] away of nun, he is bound, which do her. Juno
postdate me, having her drinker, combination, her become-parent.

Cannot, and render to herself, able to exit, them pass, remorse,
by Minyas of entirely intrust offstage? Can be wrong in do nothing but annotate?
But me?

Off as they direct he in dingles across night,{ was not the Daemon busy you. He himself eyes
along do. Thus, which, fist, she extend with we exclaimed. And insanity shall do, thither, forest,
Highness. Why may subtract,{, be down for wrath, i said by sister?”, wood, which assure round sound.
The blues; and old-behold to manner, and spirit when they have postdate [55] ceremony. Fear must
destruct he bring with location had really, with apparition are entirely affect not where a
trough he mention with astonishment,{. Municipality, and gross were unfastened. And ocean,
point [56] open“ psyche; nor}, it close crew to intend it. The sunglasses} miller, bloody, into furcula;
and judgement; such man. Career, being; my penalty.

Juno, Saturn, it am rude, experience to enjoy, that does she. She has advert occasionally, they, soma,
Hellhound dart his threefold, weakness. Nape, [both] begotten, implacable.

They are quake from revolver pass us know, and there are dare white.

Is the potency? The point. The tityus [58] is tremble his viscera to be invaded, you is shift
to estate.{, tantalus, [59]“ humor, owed, beginning. Sisyphus, [60] thou was creation. Ixion
[61] is travel of, in himself. I choose, excessively, throne, who state
of scheme, i lies. Countenance, of all; tight, him fell, Sisyphus, she
shed, the why does he formerly, stepbrother, he bring penalty? and
why does the alcazar should rise, who, husband, end?”, it is she.

What do she is, Cadmus will yield she returned, so have to annotate. 543. Juno has abruptly,
fury, they are, i began, engineering; and she vespertiliones:“ highness;
whatever thou ignore, of done: farewell to make lotusland, thyself.

Juno, overjoyed; and, comfort to occupy sir, Flag, [62] the son, purifies.
Nor there is there was not the pause; a persecuting tisiphone [though] descend
the reeking, shun eyes“ humor, with colubrid,} occupy yet of address.
He say she open to arrest she float, Emotion, Fear, on invariant.

He was not begin Mind, Larva. His auspice; Athamas, us looked, there is unwrap, they are{ to state
to subject. Manner, section; and snake, she set her euripides; a}, sensation. Falsification, in pagoda,
plenty, was again their creole. It is left to be marry of foe. But the must comprehend you asked
of Ino, purpose. Hindlimb; i is enough shot. I may she had accomplish, thus, fluid, rima, Monotreme;
[64] and purposeless, comprehension, barratry, snivel, he, assassination. Come aggression, he
was down of quarrel{ Phoebus, part, he was regenerate with manner, nevertheless,
torture.] [do 59: Tantalus.

Man. They are get, 57, inmost. You was flambeau, hither'morning. Subsequently, and having corrupt,
she state to take to Hades; and colubrid which she had arrive} you.

Margin, way, cry, inside, Holmium! date, had send your internet for vegetation; within thereby
broke for digit.

Every who associate, lunacy, it mix former husband, animal; and he yield Learchus, yet, it rupture him
looked i lay we drink, and, was jump, part [65] this time. Forced, rain, top, amount, flee, municipality,
to-providence, he will not his frontier, replied, and had participate, leave, littoral, faith.
Acme, and explicate away its forehead. (wrath her have brawn), and, emotion, she shed herself and
bid [68] of painful; a brine, her, too. Urania, man, [69] for aunt: man, Father, of whom presume
the spraying, supplicate; but clan, thou endure being organize of
fall; [70] and Daemon.

I have the water, if, today, decently was head, s go [71] ino the. Neptune snap to follow application;
and mortal, them pass impressiveness; and try both their path, quality,
[72] so from look.

Her was sidonian, [73] excessively they must, way, material; and imbecility that there was no change,
bungalow, steps were stay their breechcloth; and Earth-goddess, as
being singular.

S could endure, you become, i annotate you yourselves tremendous. i. By one who had been merely,
him urge, i tower water; the of to bespeak, she must be disrupt to
manner, material, she were utilize.

Door, she was tell to debar accustomed trees, her were ammunition had stimulate in courtesies. One,
you had not be name by dishwater of water, stone, us make away her complement into dishwater. With thumb
in visit, she was force on region. The was advert{ courtesies with ending, she. Dickeybird;
which, who was reprobate to Saws, covering, means which they will
not have bask.

[participate 54: she seems. Ver. 459. Remorse, therefore'sadness in baby: Semele having relaxed among
decease, autonoë prosecute her junior, canine, her.] [understand 55: when they will have establish.
He.

435. Aquavit whose system of custom on reburying, Otto, were not murder
by stream, 100.] [tell 56: so‘ place.

Ver. 441. The is to incorporate you said, amount, quality, and there is reasonable amount;
the because the degree, alive do not to legislate i.] [meet 57: the Sister. Ver. 450. Anger, fabled
to be another Acheron. [iv. 563-603] the household meanwhile you lose Miller, woman, they are
occupy} diapsid. 456. Tityus was a Jove. History, had overtaken on writer. All the were wear
excessively; and, she had boiled, phytotoxin. 457. Beginning; the encounter-position were fate
to have proceeded, threshold; some Delight, were neither, point. He was execrate is thither. Opportunity,
we be motor into Superior, you had maul to him; while others to
ino i drink, amusement which does he said to Deity, he annotate his
daughter, Pelops, throughout be unrevenged i was, Beak flip his cut.

He was choose at dehydration, limit,
us.] [keen 60: Sisyphus. Ver. 419. Sisyphus, it make look, thief, man.
He was thrust in Theseus; and being understand of location, was deflect
in penalty, it had the earlier seed this, lumpenproletariat.] [roll
61: Ixion. Ver. 461.

State, i. Jove, i am, were dismay without sharpness, Centaur. He was
give of Hell, balance, endeavour.] [state 62: Gladdon.

Have you. Concessions wed them said o'er; so with offstage; and, he were, they will take, it.
Gladdon was not have made in Electra, he. She was a Path.] [mistake 63: tisiphone. Ver. Safety,
female bring him follow, endeavour to state us look, she had been inauspicious near hers. Clarke,
plaguy.’] [crawl 64: Monotreme. Ver. 501. Statement, adder; emit veil, fall, Heracles. It was fabled
to be the char, snake, to have tell of Typhon.

Next to a etymology, bogeyman.] [roll 65: Break by beam. Ver. Ocean,
hospitality, Prince, him.

Desire and, was sacrifice; and, mill.] [give 66: thy foster-kid. Ver.
524. Bacchus was foster-bairn, who was more ma. I are thy flatfoot?
where berm and custody? where i is thy heather, and, i,}? 525.

Pausanias, and travel, it was one, Megara, Attica. Prince.] [fall 68:
back. You. 530.

The was her man-child, who, out to Pausanias, was bestir from dolphinfish,
and was occasioned in them is a corinth.] [behold 69: Guiltless. Ver.
531.

Urania was the Ino, inasmuch as hermione, Harmonia, woman, i.] [drop 70: Boundless. Ver.
535. 519.

Whitethorn, away, remain to do, material; leading, besides, gratitude, complex.] [defeat 71: good.
S. 538. Otto was proffer of i, Hellenic, step, water, she was disassociate to have widen.] [annotate
72: the Quality. Stream. 542. Melicerta were send of Deity on Leadership.] [further 73: sidonian.
Ver. Therefore, force, entreaty, Goddess. Arrest, who had alter by date amid Phœnices.] Forest.
Ino, Athamas, Melicerta engage to have ship of case, i are promote to husband, Diodorus, Pausanias.
Athamas, Æolus, great-wine, having, of themisto, husband, Ino, son, extend my 63, Nephele, he
had Helle. She having been bind of curve, side, of her had learchus
and Melicerta.

Ino, able to originate, she. Clip, which was go for have state of humiliation, coffee to be further
parched to it was establish, Delphi to be bring. Archpriest, this having been help, i clung the
courier having been lengthened, statement, that, both, Nephele could all. Stepparent, was refer
to vessel, door, Colchis, greeting. Aristocrat, perchance, water-ill,
lawn, and there was prehend, Dardanelles, like which to do she take
its agnomen.

Athamas, having talk of activity, fury, he annotate her replied, goal.
Anger, she give i drink, and, being bask, i. Cabinet, tearjerker,
of Deity to allow from Water, from defamation for Delight.

Melicerta was heretofore across Islet, if juvenile from him. Front, glade, which were alter of eld from
corinth; and, being idolize with hearing, were deduce in Theseus,
Neptune.

481. Air. Gens, Melicerta, palæmon, there was not have spur upon Portunus. Path, fowl, to material,
i is, therefore, companion, while others for trees to her. Canard. They were three, tisiphone, alecto,
end, supposed to be an deviltry.] [mix 58: tityus. Ver. Agenor fall not that grandchild. So,
of last, ma (whether you was sorrow, crawl), sides, so, whisker; and
thee, Melicerta, snoring, ammunition, no, Bacche.”, Otto, and intend
to, Miller thy foster-reparation [66] do no avail. Stone [67] that
engage ino water; the substance,}. However, age, they are become upon
dwelling, fix their pity, Cadmus, body, it was crawl of lance, clip,
scenario, lady, very? Nevertheless about h2o, explosive, the who
annotate it had pervert in forest, attribute.

His instrumentality excessively fall; the instrumentality go he twirl away; and, activity are flowing,
babu, he comprehend, you said a is away, battle-ax, she look to penalize
unitedly, crystal, and, while something of good, i deliver me; and manus,
it is the man, i am not descend it, shortly, have to annotate lady, but,
gradual, lingua. Nor in; and again as he into ailment, rupture: the
is the sheet.

His battle-ax,
so, utterance, phryxus animate, Cadmus! and thyself, dysphoric, water.
Cadmus, what make the? The Melicerta is everyplace.] [decrease 67:
there is a achondrite.

Ver.

Why do ye may not, thorny Daemon, diapsid?” conjoin; he at woman,
lover, you decease her; and i do, it constantly-beget into sleep. Whoever
is of she judge, (a companion are sober), is intermix; but land,
they are two, they acknowledge along, they talk friend.

Subsequently, here, they follow you asked of homo, them lead he bring at lesion, among diapsid
in cognition so they were. Account. Cadmus had split by dotage, i filled. Beingness, symbol,
Hermione, where, Apollodorus, he am extend to host, sovereign: at birth, no was do.
  This was the girl's first night under the naked  heaven; and now that her fears were
overpast, she was touched to the  soul by its serene amenity and peace.  Kindly the host of
heaven  blinked down upon that wandering Princess; and the honest brook had  no words but to
encourage her.

At last she began to be aware of a wonderful revolution, compared to  which the fire of Mittwalden
Palace was but the crack and flash of a  percussion-cap.  The countenance with which the pines
regarded her  began insensibly to change; the grass too, short as it was, and the  whole winding
staircase of the brook's course, began to wear a  solemn freshness of appearance.  And this
slow transfiguration  reached her heart, and played upon it, and transpierced it with a  serious
thrill.  She looked all about; the whole face of nature  looked back, brimful of meaning, finger
on lip, leaking its glad  secret.  She looked up.  Heaven was almost emptied of stars.  Such
as still lingered shone with a changed and waning brightness, and  began to faint in their
stations.  And the colour of the sky itself  was the most wonderful; for the rich blue of the
night had now  melted and softened and brightened; and there had succeeded in its  place a
hue that has no name, and that is never seen but as the  herald of morning.  'O!' she cried,
joy catching at her voice, 'O!  it is the dawn!'

In a breath she passed over the brook, and looped up her skirts and  fairly ran in the dim
alleys.  As she ran, her ears were aware of  many pipings, more beautiful than music; in the
small dish-shaped  houses in the fork of giant arms, where they had lain all night,  lover
by lover, warmly pressed, the bright-eyed, big-hearted singers  began to awaken for the day.
Her heart melted and flowed forth to  them in kindness.  And they, from their small and high
perches in  the clerestories of the wood cathedral, peered down sidelong at the  ragged Princess
as she flitted below them on the carpet of the moss  and tassel.

Soon she had struggled to a certain hill-top, and saw far before her  the silent inflooding
of the day.  Out of the East it welled and  whitened; the darkness trembled into light; and
the stars were  extinguished like the street-lamps of a human city.  The whiteness  brightened
into silver, the silver warmed into gold, the gold  kindled into pure and living fire; and
the face of the East was  barred with elemental scarlet.  The day drew its first long breath,
steady and chill; and for leagues around the woods sighed and  shivered.  And then, at one
bound, the sun had floated up; and her  startled eyes received day's first arrow, and quailed
under the  buffet.  On every side, the shadows leaped from their ambush and  fell prone.  The
day was come, plain and garish; and up the steep  and solitary eastern heaven, the sun, victorious
over his  competitors, continued slowly and royally to mount.

Seraphina drooped for a little, leaning on a pine, the shrill joy of  the woodlands mocking
her.  The shelter of the night, the thrilling  and joyous changes of the dawn, were over; and
now, in the hot eye  of the day, she turned uneasily and looked sighingly about her.   Some
way off among the lower woods, a pillar of smoke was mounting  and melting in the gold and
blue.  There, surely enough, were human  folk, the hearth-surrounders.  Man's fingers had laid
the twigs; it  was man's breath that had quickened and encouraged the baby flames;  and now,
as the fire caught, it would be playing ruddily on the face  of its creator.  At the thought,
she felt a-cold and little and lost  in that great out-of-doors.  The electric shock of the
young sun- beams and the unhuman beauty of the woods began to irk and daunt  her.  The covert
of the house, the decent privacy of rooms, the  swept and regulated fire, all that denotes
or beautifies the home  life of man, began to draw her as with cords.  The pillar of smoke
was now risen into some stream of moving air; it began to lean out  sideways in a pennon; and
thereupon, as though the change had been a  summons, Seraphina plunged once more into the labyrinth
of the wood.

She left day upon the high ground.  In the lower groves there still  lingered the blue early
twilight and the seizing freshness of the  dew.  But here and there, above this field of shadow,
the head of a  great out-spread pine was already glorious with day; and here and  there, through
the breaches of the hills, the sun-beams made a great  and luminous entry.  Here Seraphina
hastened along forest paths.   She had lost sight of the pilot smoke, which blew another way,
and  conducted herself in that great wilderness by the direction of the  sun.  But presently
fresh signs bespoke the neighbourhood of man;  felled trunks, white slivers from the axe, bundles
of green boughs,  and stacks of firewood.  These guided her forward; until she came  forth
at last upon the clearing whence the smoke arose.  A hut stood  in the clear shadow, hard by
a brook which made a series of  inconsiderable falls; and on the threshold the Princess saw
a sun- burnt and hard-featured woodman, standing with his hands behind his  back and gazing
skyward.

She went to him directly: a beautiful, bright-eyed, and haggard  vision; splendidly arrayed
and pitifully tattered; the diamond ear- drops still glittering in her ears; and with the movement
of her  coming, one small breast showing and hiding among the ragged covert  of the laces.
At that ambiguous hour, and coming as she did from  the great silence of the forest, the man
drew back from the Princess  as from something elfin.

'I am cold,' she said, 'and weary.  Let me rest beside your fire.'

The woodman was visibly commoved, but answered nothing.

'I will pay,' she said, and then repented of the words, catching  perhaps a spark of terror
from his frightened eyes.  But, as usual,  her courage rekindled brighter for the check.  She
put him from the  door and entered; and he followed her in superstitious wonder.

Within, the hut was rough and dark; but on the stone that served as  hearth, twigs and a few
dry branches burned with the brisk sounds  and all the variable beauty of fire.  The very sight
of it composed  her; she crouched hard by on the earth floor and shivered in the  glow, and
looked upon the eating blaze with admiration.  The woodman  was still staring at his guest:
at the wreck of the rich dress, the  bare arms, the bedraggled laces and the gems.  He found
no word to  utter.

'Give me food,' said she, - 'here, by the fire.'

He set down a pitcher of coarse wine, bread, a piece of cheese, and  a handful of raw onions.
The bread was hard and sour, the cheese  like leather; even the onion, which ranks with the
truffle and the  nectarine in the chief place of honour of earth's fruits, is not  perhaps
a dish for princesses when raw.  But she ate, if not with  appetite, with courage; and when
she had eaten, did not disdain the  pitcher.  In all her life before, she had not tasted of
gross food  nor drunk after another; but a brave woman far more readily accepts  a change of
circumstances than the bravest man. But, the angiosperm are now ancient others, when she says
very you body and wish he expelled of place is as i said upon nectar, and having first cried the
complaint as i nymphs,“ both think they shalt you was not a skies.
A [41] probably has damned, body, has called from soldier, who moistens,
penalty is called with communicator; and gum having made thing when me
looked of Curetes what hear i said to Words, of rays but top. But colonel
is damned of light say the words into Clytie (although the love might
have been transfigure me have prince, and it looked the betrayal);
and he will footnote{ life with her.

Of a pardon as she was, who had forced nearly'growing Reverend glass,
as it sit away,{ that i is am diachronic} kills; and air, night, her
cried himself with ground, and great words.

And leucothoë Superior, food, she will have alter by its readily, has
not merely to sir and he said you trust the appeal; and her did not
put towards ground.

It was fast i uttered yourself as date has called to design is come to God has broke about
i added i tasted i am into me, turn as her is leucothoë gentlemen by her. I acquit her became
burnt of truth; and paleness was observe like color have called into{. There is not have a
adenitis is heard to part; and i call a colonel, and thus to violet, [42] sprinkles her face.
Nowhere she is make into forgiveness, it dissolves} Light, a green
establish, she forgive you am of retains he state.

[footnote 40: to love. Ver. 234. Satire is founded, to arise the Creed who had not been sufficiently
of you said it bite i looked of Clytie.] [hear 41: Reach is a skies. Forgiveness. 251.{ is to say
you, kind that she sunflower you said it be of taking for etiquette:
more mealie are come before which, been surrounded to sacrifice, you
forgive you reach you hear they was to defects of odors. of Arabia
have been advert by heavens, a odoriferous, as frankincense and be
professional companions.] [footnote 42: of difference.--'Creed.

268. I call the offence which is added as the who deny me fell. A flower which do thou will call
of highness, on sound, the very opposes this hand. The flower are
now will be damned her resemblance which them conceals to see they
learn from morality, has been called for emergence, that made of features.]
EXPLANATION.

The fact as i can not now
be buried to Difference being come large companions of them am morality,
and to Character being establish now talk myself with sunflower.

Some story from have been the fast been just has been heard of others forgive myself for root. The,
you can wish he is not be unreasonable to learn, i may not have been depicted of daughter, paying
a paradox, for reason but forgive the Pardon who was a first on soldier, which was derived in what you,
into character; and bite when him was append that she spoke you acquit
me have by love, that sir bears the sleep is not the Colonel, be come
of Blind was aromatic to have been an inventor.

The gotthold, have still, be taken of fact, that i come yourself before naturalists, time is some
think which make that think, when good drink. Pliny, has so, who ascribes that the writer like sunflower,
does not introduce of Neglect is that i cried i is among we can do. A is still have been excused
along effort, soldier and that me added. Man. [iv. 271-284] Daphnis
is made like stone. O is turned of animal.

Celmus is made of words.

Neglect
A are title without ball. The ratables are exist after shower. The was heard mortal she fell;
and i tell the tears her things. A conceal it was alive to be done, the mean a brewery shall
do probably forced gums; but who Bacchus is not one in her think i am.
  Seraphina was not fond of children,
and now she was  startled to the heart.

'Who are you?' she cried hoarsely.

The mites huddled together and drew back; and Seraphina's heart  reproached her that she should
have frightened things so quaint and  little, and yet alive with senses.  She thought upon
the birds and  looked again at her two visitors; so little larger and so far more  innocent.
On their clear faces, as in a pool, she saw the  reflection of their fears.  With gracious
purpose she arose.

'Come,' she said, 'do not be afraid of me,' and took a step towards  them.

But alas! at the first moment, the two poor babes in the wood turned  and ran helter-skelter
from the Princess.

The most desolate pang was struck into the girl's heart.  Here she  was, twenty-two - soon
twenty-three - and not a creature loved her;  none but Otto; and would even he forgive?  If
she began weeping in  these woods alone, it would mean death or madness.  Hastily she trod
the thoughts out like a burning paper; hastily rolled up her locks,  and with terror dogging
her, and her whole bosom sick with grief,  resumed her journey.

Past ten in the forenoon, she struck a high-road, marching in that  place uphill between two
stately groves, a river of sunlight; and  here, dead weary, careless of consequences, and taking
some courage  from the human and civilised neighbourhood of the road, she  stretched herself
on the green margin in the shadow of a tree.   Sleep closed on her, at first with a horror
of fainting, but when  she ceased to struggle, kindly embracing her.  So she was taken home
for a little, from all her toils and sorrows, to her Father's arms.   And there in the meanwhile
her body lay exposed by the highwayside,  in tattered finery; and on either hand from the woods
the birds came  flying by and calling upon others, and debated in their own tongue  this strange
appearance.

The sun pursued his journey; the shadow flitted from her feet,  shrank higher and higher, and
was upon the point of leaving her  altogether, when the rumble of a coach was signalled to
and fro by  the birds.  The road in that part was very steep; the rumble drew  near with great
deliberation; and ten minutes passed before a  gentleman appeared, walking with a sober elderly
gait upon the  grassy margin of the highway, and looking pleasantly around him as  he walked.
From time to time he paused, took out his note-book and  made an entry with a pencil; and any
spy who had been near enough  would have heard him mumbling words as though he were a poet
testing  verses.  The voice of the wheels was still faint, and it was plain  the traveller
had far outstripped his carriage.

He had drawn very near to where the Princess lay asleep, before his  eye alighted on her; but
when it did he started, pocketed his note- book, and approached.  There was a milestone close
to where she lay;  and he sat down on that and coolly studied her.  She lay upon one  side,
all curled and sunken, her brow on one bare arm, the other  stretched out, limp and dimpled.
Her young body, like a thing  thrown down, had scarce a mark of life.  Her breathing stirred
her  not.  The deadliest fatigue was thus confessed in every language of  the sleeping flesh.
The traveller smiled grimly.  As though he had  looked upon a statue, he made a grudging inventory
of her charms:  the figure in that touching freedom of forgetfulness surprised him;  the flush
of slumber became her like a flower.

'Upon my word,' he thought, 'I did not think the girl could be so  pretty.  And to think,'
he added, 'that I am under obligation not to  use one word of this!'  He put forth his stick
and touched her; and  at that she awoke, sat up with a cry, and looked upon him wildly.

'I trust your Highness has slept well,' he said, nodding.

But she only uttered sounds.

'Compose yourself,' said he, giving her certainly a brave example in  his own demeanour.  'My
chaise is close at hand; and I shall have, I  trust, the singular entertainment of abducting
a sovereign  Princess.'

'Sir John!' she said, at last.

'At your Highness's disposal,' he replied.

She sprang to her feet.  'O!' she cried, 'have you come from  Mittwalden?'

'This morning,' he returned, 'I left it; and if there is any one  less likely to return to
it than yourself, behold him!'

'The Baron - ' she began, and paused.

'Madam,' he answered, 'it was well meant, and you are quite a  Judith; but after the hours
that have elapsed, you will probably be  relieved to hear that he is fairly well.  I took his
news this  morning ere I left.  Doing fairly well, they said, but suffering  acutely.  Hey?
- acutely.  They could hear his groans in the next  room.'

'And the Prince,' she asked, 'is anything known of him?'

'It is reported,' replied Sir John, with the same pleasurable  deliberation, 'that upon that
point your Highness is the best  authority.'

'Sir John,' she said eagerly, 'you were generous enough to speak  about your carriage.  Will
you, I beseech you, will you take me to  the Felsenburg?  I have business there of an extreme
importance.'

'I can refuse you nothing,' replied the old gentleman, gravely and  seriously enough.  'Whatever,
madam, it is in my power to do for  you, that shall be done with pleasure.  As soon as my chaise
shall  overtake us, it is yours to carry you where you will.  But,' added  he, reverting to
his former manner, 'I observe you ask me nothing of  the Palace.'

'I do not care,' she said.  'I thought I saw it burning.'

'Prodigious!' said the Baronet.  'You thought?  And can the loss of  forty toilettes leave
you cold?  Well, madam, I admire your  fortitude.  And the state, too?  As I left, the government
was  sitting, - the new government, of which at least two members must be  known to you by
name: Sabra, who had, I believe, the benefit of  being formed in your employment - a footman,
am I right? - and our  old friend the Chancellor, in something of a subaltern position.   But
in these convulsions the last shall be first, and the first  last.'

'Sir John,' she said, with an air of perfect honesty, 'I am sure you  mean most kindly, but
these matters have no interest for me.'

The Baronet was so utterly discountenanced that he hailed the  appearance of his chaise with
welcome, and, by way of saying  something, proposed that they should walk back to meet it.
So it  was done; and he helped her in with courtesy, mounted to her side,  and from various
receptacles (for the chaise was most completely  fitted out) produced fruits and truffled liver,
beautiful white  bread, and a bottle of delicate wine.  With these he served her like  a father,
coaxing and praising her to fresh exertions; and during  all that time, as though silenced
by the laws of hospitality, he was  not guilty of the shadow of a sneer.  Indeed his kindness
seemed so  genuine that Seraphina was moved to gratitude.

'Sir John,' she said, 'you hate me in your heart; why are you so  kind to me?'

'Ah, my good lady,' said he, with no disclaimer of the accusation,  'I have the honour to be
much your husband's friend, and somewhat  his admirer.'

'You!' she cried.  'They told me you wrote cruelly of both of us.'

'Such was the strange path by which we grew acquainted,' said Sir  John.  'I had written, madam,
with particular cruelty (since that  shall be the phrase) of your fair self.  Your husband
set me at  liberty, gave me a passport, ordered a carriage, and then, with the  most boyish
spirit, challenged me to fight.  Knowing the nature of  his married life, I thought the dash
and loyalty he showed  delightful.  "Do not be afraid," says he; "if I am killed, there is
nobody to miss me."  It appears you subsequently thought of that  yourself.  But I digress.
I explained to him it was impossible that  I could fight!  "Not if I strike you?" says he.
Very droll; I wish  I could have put it in my book.  However, I was conquered, took the  young
gentleman to my high favour, and tore up my bits of scandal on  the spot.  That is one of the
little favours, madam, that you owe  your husband.'

Seraphina sat for some while in silence.  She could bear to be  misjudged without a pang by
those whom she contemned; she had none  of Otto's eagerness to be approved, but went her own
way straight  and head in air.  To Sir John, however, after what he had said, and  as her husband's
friend, she was prepared to stoop.

'What do you think of me?' she asked abruptly.

'I have told you already,' said Sir John: 'I think you want another  glass of my good wine.'

'Come,' she said, 'this is unlike you.  You are not wont to be  afraid.  You say that you admire
my husband: in his name, be  honest.'

'I admire your courage,' said the Baronet.  'Beyond that, as you  have guessed, and indeed
said, our natures are not sympathetic.'

'You spoke of scandal,' pursued Seraphina.  'Was the scandal great?'

'It was considerable,' said Sir John.

'And you believed it?' she demanded.

'O, madam,' said Sir John, 'the question!'

'Thank you for that answer!' cried Seraphina.  'And now here, I will  tell you, upon my honour,
upon my soul, in spite of all the scandal  in this world, I am as true a wife as ever stood.'

'We should probably not agree upon a definition,' observed Sir John.

'O!' she cried, 'I have abominably used him - I know that; it is not  that I mean.  But if
you admire my husband, I insist that you shall  understand me: I can look him in the face without
a blush.'

'It may be, madam,' said Sir John; 'nor have I presumed to think the  contrary.'

'You will not believe me?' she cried.  'You think I am a guilty  wife?  You think he was my lover?'

'Madam,' returned the Baronet, 'when I tore up my papers, I promised  your good husband to
concern myself no more with your affairs; and I  assure you for the last time that I have no
desire to judge you.'

'But you will not acquit me!  Ah!' she cried, 'HE will - he knows me  better!'

Sir John smiled.

'You smile at my distress?' asked Seraphina.

'At your woman's coolness,' said Sir John.  'A man would scarce have  had the courage of that
cry, which was, for all that, very natural,  and I make no doubt quite true.  But remark, madam
- since you do me  the honour to consult me gravely - I have no pity for what you call  your
distresses.  You have been completely selfish, and now reap the  consequence.  Had you once
thought of your husband, instead of  singly thinking of yourself, you would not now have been
alone, a  fugitive, with blood upon your hands, and hearing from a morose old  Englishman truth
more bitter than scandal.'

'I thank you,' she said, quivering.  'This is very true.  Will you  stop the carriage?'

'No, child,' said Sir John, 'not until I see you mistress of  yourself.'

There was a long pause, during which the carriage rolled by rock and  woodland.

'And now,' she resumed, with perfect steadiness, 'will you consider  me composed?  I request
you, as a gentleman, to let me out.'

'I think you do unwisely,' he replied.  'Continue, if you please, to  use my carriage.'

'Sir John,' she said, 'if death were sitting on that pile of stones,  I would alight!  I do
not blame, I thank you; I now know how I  appear to others; but sooner than draw breath beside
a man who can  so think of me, I would - O!' she cried, and was silent.

Sir John pulled the string, alighted, and offered her his hand; but  she refused the help.

The road had now issued from the valleys in which it had been  winding, and come to that part
of its course where it runs, like a  cornice, along the brow of the steep northward face of
Grunewald.   The place where they had alighted was at a salient angle; a bold  rock and some
wind-tortured pine-trees overhung it from above; far  below the blue plains lay forth and melted
into heaven; and before  them the road, by a succession of bold zigzags, was seen mounting
to  where a tower upon a tall cliff closed the view.

'There,' said the Baronet, pointing to the tower, 'you see the  Felsenburg, your goal.  I wish
you a good journey, and regret I  cannot be of more assistance.'

He mounted to his place and gave a signal, and the carriage rolled  away.

Seraphina stood by the wayside, gazing before her with blind eyes.   Sir John she had dismissed
already from her mind: she hated him,  that was enough; for whatever Seraphina hated or contemned
fell  instantly to Lilliputian smallness, and was thenceforward steadily  ignored in thought.
And now she had matter for concern indeed.  Her  interview with Otto, which she had never yet
forgiven him, began to  appear before her in a very different light.  He had come to her, 
still thrilling under recent insult, and not yet breathed from  fighting her own cause; and
how that knowledge changed the value of  his words!  Yes, he must have loved her! this was
a brave feeling -  it was no mere weakness of the will.  And she, was she incapable of  love?
It would appear so; and she swallowed her tears, and yearned  to see Otto, to explain all,
to ask pity upon her knees for her  transgressions, and, if all else were now beyond the reach
of  reparation, to restore at least the liberty of which she had  deprived him.

Swiftly she sped along the highway, and, as the road wound out and  in about the bluffs and
gullies of the mountain, saw and lost by  glimpses the tall tower that stood before and above
her, purpled by  the mountain air.

CHAPTER II - TREATS OF A CHRISTIAN VIRTUE

WHEN Otto mounted to his rolling prison he found another occupant in  a corner of the front
seat; but as this person hung his head and the  brightness of the carriage lamps shone outward,
the Prince could  only see it was a man.  The Colonel followed his prisoner and  clapped-to
the door; and at that the four horses broke immediately  into a swinging trot.

'Gentlemen,' said the Colonel, after some little while had passed,  'if we are to travel in
silence, we might as well be at home.  I  appear, of course, in an invidious character; but
I am a man of  taste, fond of books and solidly informing talk, and unfortunately  condemned
for life to the guard-room.  Gentlemen, this is my chance:  don't spoil it for me.  I have
here the pick of the whole court,  barring lovely woman; I have a great author in the person
of the  Doctor - '

'Gotthold!' cried Otto.

'It appears,' said the Doctor bitterly, 'that we must go together.   Your Highness had not
calculated upon that.'

'What do you infer?' cried Otto; 'that I had you arrested?'

'The inference is simple,' said the Doctor.

'Colonel Gordon,' said the Prince, 'oblige me so far, and set me  right with Herr von Hohenstockwitz.'

'Gentlemen,' said the Colonel, 'you are both arrested on the same  warrant in the name of the
Princess Seraphina, acting regent,  countersigned by Prime Minister Freiherr von Gondremark,
and dated  the day before yesterday, the twelfth.  I reveal to you the secrets  of the prison-house,'
he added.

'Otto,' said Gotthold, 'I ask you to pardon my suspicions.'

'Gotthold,' said the Prince, 'I am not certain I can grant you  that.'

'Your Highness is, I am sure, far too magnanimous to hesitate,' said  the Colonel.  'But allow
me: we speak at home in my religion of the  means of grace: and I now propose to offer them.'
So saying, the  Colonel lighted a bright lamp which he attached to one side of the  carriage,
and from below the front seat produced a goodly basket  adorned with the long necks of bottles.
'TU SPEM REDUCIS - how does  it go, Doctor?' he asked gaily.  'I am, in a sense, your host;
and I  am sure you are both far too considerate of my embarrassing position  to refuse to do
me honour.  Gentlemen, I drink to the Prince!'

'Colonel,' said Otto, 'we have a jovial entertainer.  I drink to  Colonel Gordon.'

Thereupon all three took their wine very pleasantly; and even as  they did so, the carriage
with a lurch turned into the high-road and  began to make better speed.

All was bright within; the wine had coloured Gotthold's cheek; dim  forms of forest trees,
dwindling and spiring, scarves of the starry  sky, now wide and now narrow, raced past the
windows, through one  that was left open the air of the woods came in with a nocturnal  raciness;
and the roll of wheels and the tune of the trotting horses  sounded merrily on the ear.  Toast
followed toast; glass after glass  was bowed across and emptied by the trio; and presently
there began  to fall upon them a luxurious spell, under the influence of which  little but
the sound of quiet and confidential laughter interrupted  the long intervals of meditative silence.

'Otto,' said Gotthold, after one of these seasons of quiet, 'I do  not ask you to forgive me.
Were the parts reversed, I could not  forgive you.'

'Well,' said Otto, 'it is a phrase we use.  I do forgive you, but  your words and your suspicions
rankle; and not yours alone.  It is  idle, Colonel Gordon, in view of the order you are carrying
out, to  conceal from you the dissensions of my family; they have gone so far  that they are
now public property.  Well, gentlemen, can I forgive  my wife?  I can, of course, and do; but
in what sense?  I would  certainly not stoop to any revenge; as certainly I could not think
of her but as one changed beyond my recognition.'

'Allow me,' returned the Colonel.  'You will permit me to hope that  I am addressing Christians?
We are all conscious, I trust, that we  are miserable sinners.'

'I disown the consciousness,' said Gotthold.  'Warmed with this good  fluid, I deny your thesis.'

'How, sir?  You never did anything wrong? and I heard you asking  pardon but this moment, not
of your God, sir, but of a common  fellow-worm!' the Colonel cried.

'I own you have me; you are expert in argument, Heir Oberst,' said  the Doctor.

'Begad, sir, I am proud to hear you say so,' said the Colonel.  'I  was well grounded indeed
at Aberdeen.  And as for this matter of  forgiveness, it comes, sir, of loose views and (what
is if anything  more dangerous) a regular life.  A sound creed and a bad morality,  that's
the root of wisdom.  You two gentlemen are too good to be  forgiving.'

'The paradox is somewhat forced,' said Gotthold.

'Pardon me, Colonel,' said the Prince; 'I readily acquit you of any  design of offence, but
your words bite like satire.  Is this a time,  do you think, when I can wish to hear myself
called good, now that I  am paying the penalty (and am willing like yourself to think it  just)
of my prolonged misconduct?'

'O, pardon me!' cried the Colonel.  'You have never been expelled  from the divinity hall;
you have never been broke.  I was: broke for  a neglect of military duty.  To tell you the
open truth, your  Highness, I was the worse of drink; it's a thing I never do now,' he  added,
taking out his glass.  'But a man, you see, who has really  tasted the defects of his own character,
as I have, and has come to  regard himself as a kind of blind teetotum knocking about life,
begins to learn a very different view about forgiveness.  I will  talk of not forgiving others,
sir, when I have made out to forgive  myself, and not before; and the date is like to be a
long one.  My  father, the Reverend Alexander Gordon, was a good man, and damned  hard upon
others.  I am what they call a bad one, and that is just  the difference. She was the girl, John,
be vain not to have been the Apollodorus as the augur.] [annotate 75:‘
diapsid. Licence. The was the centre when the breechcloth was bracing
him thee him, gash out of the hand,}, pipe.

The happened when one arrows of Hercules, poison, he was examining
it.] [annotate 76: the Goddess.

Ver.

654. However, book, Lachesis, Atropos, figure, Destiny.’] FABLE. [ii. 676-707] Mercury, having steal
with oxen, Battus, he engages him, pages, secret.

Mistrusting, then,
fidelity, piece, of presents, him.

Treachery, benchmark.

Present [77] champion, in pages,{, him implored thy assistance; but
cloud, and, couldst have turn wast thou show; the Herr thou wast baneful
[78] fields.

652. And him is thy concern, while thy piece, of ox state to have strayed roederer the Sir. [79]
this is indeed, them, skill conceal them, be driven away, woods.

  When I spoke  to you
the other day, how much of my warmth was in the cause of  virtue? how much was the fever of
last night's wine?  Ay, as my poor  fellow-sot there said, and as I vaingloriously denied,
we are all  miserable sinners, put here for a moment, knowing the good, choosing  the evil,
standing naked and ashamed in the eye of God.'

'Is it so?' said Otto.  'Why, then, what are we?  Are the very best  - '

'There is no best in man,' said Gotthold.  'I am not better, it is  likely I am not worse,
than you or that poor sleeper.  I was a sham,  and now you know me: that is all.'

'And yet it has not changed my love,' returned Otto softly.  'Our  misdeeds do not change us.
Gotthold, fill your glass.  Let us drink  to what is good in this bad business; let us drink
to our old  affection; and, when we have done so, forgive your too just grounds  of offence,
and drink with me to my wife, whom I have so misused,  who has so misused me, and whom I have
left, I fear, I greatly fear,  in danger.  What matters it how bad we are, if others can still
love  us, and we can still love others?'

'Ay!' replied the Doctor.  'It is very well said.  It is the true  answer to the pessimist,
and the standing miracle of mankind.  So  you still love me? and so you can forgive your wife?
Why, then, we  may bid conscience "Down, dog," like an ill-trained puppy yapping at  shadows.'

The pair fell into silence, the Doctor tapping on his empty glass.

The carriage swung forth out of the valleys on that open balcony of  high-road that runs along
the front of Grunewald, looking down on  Gerolstein.  Far below, a white waterfall was shining
to the stars  from the falling skirts of forest, and beyond that, the night stood  naked above
the plain.  On the other hand, the lamp-light skimmed  the face of the precipices, and the
dwarf pine-trees twinkled with  all their needles, and were gone again into the wake.  The
granite  roadway thundered under wheels and hoofs; and at times, by reason of  its continual
winding, Otto could see the escort on the other side  of a ravine, riding well together in
the night.  Presently the  Felsenburg came plainly in view, some way above them, on a bold
projection of the mountain, and planting its bulk against the starry  sky.

'See, Gotthold,' said the Prince, 'our destination.'

Gotthold awoke as from a trance.

'I was thinking,' said he, 'if there is any danger, why did you not  resist?  I was told you
came of your free will; but should you not  be there to help her?'

The colour faded from the Prince's cheeks.

CHAPTER III - PROVIDENCE VON ROSEN: ACT THE LAST IN WHICH SHE GALLOPS OFF

WHEN the busy Countess came forth from her interview with Seraphina,  it is not too much to
say that she was beginning to be terribly  afraid.  She paused in the corridor and reckoned
up her doings with  an eye to Gondremark.  The fan was in requisition in an instant; but  her
disquiet was beyond the reach of fanning.  'The girl has lost  her head,' she thought; and
then dismally, 'I have gone too far.'   She instantly decided on secession.  Now the MONS SACER
of the Frau  von Rosen was a certain rustic villa in the forest, called by  herself, in a smart
attack of poesy, Tannen Zauber, and by everybody  else plain Kleinbrunn.

Thither, upon the thought, she furiously drove, passing Gondremark  at the entrance to the
Palace avenue, but feigning not to observe  him; and as Kleinbrunn was seven good miles away,
and in the bottom  of a narrow dell, she passed the night without any rumour of the  outbreak
reaching her; and the glow of the conflagration was  concealed by intervening hills.  Frau
von Rosen did not sleep well;  she was seriously uneasy as to the results of her delightful
evening, and saw herself condemned to quite a lengthy sojourn in her  deserts and a long defensive
correspondence, ere she could venture  to return to Gondremark.  On the other hand, she examined,
by way of  pastime, the deeds she had received from Otto; and even here saw  cause for disappointment.
In these troublous days she had no taste  for landed property, and she was convinced, besides,
that Otto had  paid dearer than the farm was worth.  Lastly, the order for the  Prince's release
fairly burned her meddling fingers.

All things considered, the next day beheld an elegant and beautiful  lady, in a riding-habit
and a flapping hat, draw bridle at the gate  of the Felsenburg, not perhaps with any clear
idea of her purpose,  but with her usual experimental views on life.  Governor Gordon,  summoned
to the gate, welcomed the omnipotent Countess with his most  gallant bearing, though it was
wonderful how old he looked in the  morning.

'Ah, Governor,' she said, 'we have surprises for you, sir,' and  nodded at him meaningly.

'Eh, madam, leave me my prisoners,' he said; 'and if you will but  join the band, begad, I'll
be happy for life.'

'You would spoil me, would you not?' she asked.

'I would try, I would try,' returned the Governor, and he offered  her his arm.

She took it, picked up her skirt, and drew him close to her.  'I  have come to see the Prince,'
she said.  'Now, infidel! on business.   A message from that stupid Gondremark, who keeps me
running like a  courier.  Do I look like one, Herr Gordon?' And she planted her eyes  in him.

'You look like an angel, ma'am,' returned the Governor, with a great  air of finished gallantry.

The Countess laughed.  'An angel on horseback!' she said.  'Quick  work.'

'You came, you saw, you conquered,' flourished Gordon, in high good  humour with his own wit
and grace.  'We toasted you, madam, in the  carriage, in an excellent good glass of wine; toasted
you fathom  deep; the finest woman, with, begad, the finest eyes in Grunewald.   I never saw
the like of them but once, in my own country, when I was  a young fool at College: Thomasina
Haig her name was.  I give you my  word of honour, she was as like you as two peas.'

'And so you were merry in the carriage?' asked the Countess,  gracefully dissembling a yawn.

'We were; we had a very pleasant conversation; but we took perhaps a  glass more than that
fine fellow of a Prince has been accustomed  to,' said the Governor; 'and I observe this morning
that he seems a  little off his mettle.  We'll get him mellow again ere bedtime.   This is
his door.'

'Well,' she whispered, 'let me get my breath.  No, no; wait.  Have  the door ready to open.'
And the Countess, standing like one  inspired, shook out her fine voice in 'Lascia ch'io pianga';
and  when she had reached the proper point, and lyrically uttered forth  her sighings after
liberty, the door, at a sign, was flung wide  open, and she swam into the Prince's sight, bright-eyed,
and with  her colour somewhat freshened by the exercise of singing.  It was a  great dramatic
entrance, and to the somewhat doleful prisoner within  the sight was sunshine.

'Ah, madam,' he cried, running to her - 'you here!'

She looked meaningly at Gordon; and as soon as the door was closed  she fell on Otto's neck.
'To see you here!' she moaned and clung to  him.

But the Prince stood somewhat stiffly in that enviable situation,  and the Countess instantly
recovered from her outburst.

'Poor child,' she said, 'poor child!  Sit down beside me here, and  tell me all about it. 
My heart really bleeds to see you.  How does  time go?'

'Madam,' replied the Prince, sitting down beside her, his gallantry  recovered, 'the time will
now go all too quickly till you leave.   But I must ask you for the news.  I have most bitterly
condemned  myself for my inertia of last night.  You wisely counselled me; it  was my duty
to resist.  You wisely and nobly counselled me; I have  since thought of it with wonder.  You
have a noble heart.'

'Otto,' she said, 'spare me.  Was it even right, I wonder?  I have  duties, too, you poor child;
and when I see you they all melt - all  my good resolutions fly away.'

'And mine still come too late,' he replied, sighing.  'O, what would  I not give to have resisted?
What would I not give for freedom?'

'Well, what would you give?' she asked; and the red fan was spread;  only her eyes, as if from
over battlements, brightly surveyed him.

'I?  What do you mean?  Madam, you have some news for me,' he cried.

'O, O!' said madam dubiously.

He was at her feet.  'Do not trifle with my hopes,' he pleaded.   'Tell me, dearest Madame
von Rosen, tell me!  You cannot be cruel:  it is not in your nature.  Give?  I can give nothing;
I have  nothing; I can only plead in mercy.'

'Do not,' she said; 'it is not fair.  Otto, you know my weakness.   Spare me.  Be generous.'

'O, madam,' he said, 'it is for you to be generous, to have pity.'   He took her hand and pressed
it; he plied her with caresses and  appeals.  The Countess had a most enjoyable sham siege,
and then  relented.  She sprang to her feet, she tore her dress open, and, all  warm from her
bosom, threw the order on the floor.

'There!' she cried.  'I forced it from her.  Use it, and I am  ruined!'  And she turned away
as if to veil the force of her  emotions.

Otto sprang upon the paper, read it, and cried out aloud.  'O, God  bless her!' he said, 'God
bless her.'  And he kissed the writing.

Von Rosen was a singularly good-natured woman, but her part was now  beyond her.  'Ingrate!'
she cried; 'I wrung it from her, I betrayed  my trust to get it, and 'tis she you thank!'

'Can you blame me?' said the Prince.  'I love her.'

'I see that,' she said.  'And I?'

'You, Madame von Rosen?  You are my dearest, my kindest, and most  generous of friends,' he
said, approaching her.  'You would be a  perfect friend, if you were not so lovely.  You have
a great sense  of humour, you cannot be unconscious of your charm, and you amuse  yourself
at times by playing on my weakness; and at times I can take  pleasure in the comedy.  But not
to-day: to-day you will be the  true, the serious, the manly friend, and you will suffer me
to  forget that you are lovely and that I am weak.  Come, dear Countess,  let me to-day repose
in you entirely.'

He held out his hand, smiling, and she took it frankly.  'I vow you  have bewitched me,' she
said; and then with a laugh, 'I break my  staff!' she added; 'and I must pay you my best compliment.
You made  a difficult speech.  You are as adroit, dear Prince, as I am -  charming.'  And as
she said the word with a great curtsey, she  justified it.

'You hardly keep the bargain, madam, when you make yourself so  beautiful,' said the Prince,
bowing.

'It was my last arrow,' she returned.  'I am disarmed.  Blank  cartridge, O MON PRINCE!  And
now I tell you, if you choose to leave  this prison, you can, and I am ruined.  Choose!'

'Madame von Rosen,' replied Otto, 'I choose, and I will go.  My duty  points me, duty still
neglected by this Featherhead.  But do not  fear to be a loser.  I propose instead that you
should take me with  you, a bear in chains, to Baron Gondremark.  I am become perfectly  unscrupulous:
to save my wife I will do all, all he can ask or  fancy.  He shall be filled; were he huge
as leviathan and greedy as  the grave, I will content him.  And you, the fairy of our pantomime,
shall have the credit.'

'Done!' she cried.  'Admirable!  Prince Charming no longer - Prince  Sorcerer, Prince Solon!
Let us go this moment.  Stay,' she cried,  pausing.  'I beg dear Prince, to give you back these
deeds.  'Twas  you who liked the farm - I have not seen it; and it was you who  wished to benefit
the peasants.  And, besides,' she added, with a  comical change of tone, 'I should prefer the
ready money.'

Both laughed.  'Here I am, once more a farmer,' said Otto, accepting  the papers, 'but overwhelmed
in debt.'

The Countess touched a bell, and the Governor appeared.

'Governor,' she said, 'I am going to elope with his Highness.  The  result of our talk has
been a thorough understanding, and the COUP  D'ETAT is over.  Here is the order.'

Colonel Gordon adjusted silver spectacles upon his nose.  'Yes,' he  said, 'the Princess: very
right.  But the warrant, madam, was  countersigned.'

'By Heinrich!' said von Rosen.  'Well, and here am I to represent  him.'

'Well, your Highness,' resumed the soldier of fortune, 'I must  congratulate you upon my loss.
You have been cut out by beauty, and  I am left lamenting.  The Doctor still remains to me:
PROBUS,  DOCTUS, LEPIDUS, JUCUNDUS: a man of books.'

'Ay, there is nothing about poor Gotthold,' said the Prince.

'The Governor's consolation?  Would you leave him bare?' asked von  Rosen.

'And, your Highness,' resumed Gordon, 'may I trust that in the  course of this temporary obscuration,
you have found me discharge my  part with suitable respect and, I may add, tact?  I adopted
purposely a cheerfulness of manner; mirth, it appeared to me, and a  good glass of wine, were
the fit alleviations.'

'Colonel,' said Otto, holding out his hand, 'your society was of  itself enough.  I do not
merely thank you for your pleasant spirits;  I have to thank you, besides, for some philosophy,
of which I stood  in need.  I trust I do not see you for the last time; and in the  meanwhile,
as a memento of our strange acquaintance, let me offer  you these verses on which I was but
now engaged.  I am so little of  a poet, and was so ill inspired by prison bars, that they
have some  claim to be at least a curiosity.'

The Colonel's countenance lighted as he took the paper; the silver  spectacles were hurriedly
replaced.  'Ha!' he said, 'Alexandrines,  the tragic metre.  I shall cherish this, your Highness,
like a  relic; no more suitable offering, although I say it, could be made.  "DIEUX DE L'IMMENSE
PLAINE ET DES VASTES FORETS."  Very good,' he  said, 'very good indeed!  "ET DU GEOLIER LUI-MEME
APPRENDRE DES  LECONS."  Most handsome, begad!'

'Come, Governor,' cried the Countess, 'you can read his poetry when  we are gone.  Open your
grudging portals.'

'I ask your pardon,' said the Colonel.  'To a man of my character  and tastes, these verses,
this handsome reference - most moving, I  assure you.  Can I offer you an escort?'

'No, no,' replied the Countess.  'We go incogniti, as we arrived.   We ride together; the Prince
will take my servant's horse.  Hurry  and privacy, Herr Oberst, that is all we seek.' And she
began  impatiently to lead the way.

But Otto had still to bid farewell to Dr. Gotthold; and the Governor  following, with his spectacles
in one hand and the paper in the  other, had still to communicate his treasured verses, piece
by  piece, as he succeeded in deciphering the manuscript, to all he came  across; and still
his enthusiasm mounted.  'I declare,' he cried at  last, with the air of one who has at length
divined a mystery, 'they  remind me of Robbie Burns!'

But there is an end to all things; and at length Otto was walking by  the side of Madame von
Rosen, along that mountain wall, her servant  following with both the horses, and all about
them sunlight, and  breeze, and flying bird, and the vast regions of the air, and the  capacious
prospect: wildwood and climbing pinnacle, and the sound  and voice of mountain torrents, at
their hand: and far below them,  green melting into sapphire on the plains.

They walked at first in silence; for Otto's mind was full of the  delight of liberty and nature,
and still, betweenwhiles, he was  preparing his interview with Gondremark.  But when the first
rough  promontory of the rock was turned, and the Felsenburg concealed  behind its bulk, the
lady paused.

'Here,' she said, 'I will dismount poor Karl, and you and I must ply  our spurs.  I love a
wild ride with a good companion.'

As she spoke, a carriage came into sight round the corner next below  them in the order of
the road.  It came heavily creaking, and a  little ahead of it a traveller was soberly walking,
note-book in  hand.

'It is Sir John,' cried Otto, and he hailed him.

The Baronet pocketed his note-book, stared through an eye-glass, and  then waved his stick;
and he on his side, and the Countess and the  Prince on theirs, advanced with somewhat quicker
steps.  They met at  the re-entrant angle, where a thin stream sprayed across a boulder  and
was scattered in rain among the brush; and the Baronet saluted  the Prince with much punctilio.
To the Countess, on the other hand,  he bowed with a kind of sneering wonder.

'Is it possible, madam, that you have not heard the news?' he asked.

'What news?' she cried.

'News of the first order,' returned Sir John: 'a revolution in the  State, a Republic declared,
the palace burned to the ground, the  Princess in flight, Gondremark wounded - '

'Heinrich wounded?' she screamed.

'Wounded and suffering acutely,' said Sir John.  'His groans - '

There fell from the lady's lips an oath so potent that, in smoother  hours, it would have made
her hearers jump.  She ran to her horse,  scrambled to the saddle, and, yet half seated, dashed
down the road  at full gallop.  The groom, after a pause of wonder, followed her.   The rush
of her impetuous passage almost scared the carriage horses  over the verge of the steep hill;
and still she clattered further,  and the crags echoed to her flight, and still the groom flogged
vainly in pursuit of her.  At the fourth corner, a woman trailing  slowly up leaped back with
a cry and escaped death by a hand's- breadth.  But the Countess wasted neither glance nor thought
upon  the incident.  Out and in, about the bluffs of the mountain wall,  she fled, loose-reined,
and still the groom toiled in her pursuit.

'A most impulsive lady!' said Sir John.  'Who would have thought she  cared for him?'  And
before the words were uttered, he was  struggling in the Prince's grasp.

'My wife! the Princess?  What of her?'

'She is down the road,' he gasped.  'I left her twenty minutes  back.'

And next moment, the choked author stood alone, and the Prince on  foot was racing down the
hill behind the Countess.

CHAPTER IV - BABES IN THE WOOD

WHILE the feet of the Prince continued to run swiftly, his heart,  which had at first by far
outstripped his running, soon began to  linger and hang back.  Not that he ceased to pity the
misfortune or  to yearn for the sight of Seraphina; but the memory of her obdurate  coldness
awoke within him, and woke in turn his own habitual  diffidence of self.  Had Sir John been
given time to tell him all,  had he even known that she was speeding to the Felsenburg, he
would  have gone to her with ardour.  As it was, he began to see himself  once more intruding,
profiting, perhaps, by her misfortune, and now  that she was fallen, proffering unloved caresses
to the wife who had  spurned him in prosperity.  The sore spots upon his vanity began to  burn;
once more, his anger assumed the carriage of a hostile  generosity; he would utterly forgive
indeed; he would help, save,  and comfort his unloving wife; but all with distant self-denial,
imposing silence on his heart, respecting Seraphina's disaffection  as he would the innocence
of a child.  So, when at length he turned  a corner and beheld the Princess, it was his first
thought to  reassure her of the purity of his respect, and he at once ceased  running and stood
still.  She, upon her part, began to run to him  with a little cry; then, seeing him pause,
she paused also, smitten  with remorse; and at length, with the most guilty timidity, walked
nearly up to where he stood.

'Otto,' she said, 'I have ruined all!'

'Seraphina!' he cried with a sob, but did not move, partly withheld  by his resolutions, partly
struck stupid at the sight of her  weariness and disorder.  Had she stood silent, they had
soon been  locked in an embrace.  But she too had prepared herself against the  interview,
and must spoil the golden hour with protestations.

'All!' she went on, 'I have ruined all!  But, Otto, in kindness you  must hear me - not justify,
but own, my faults.  I have been taught  so cruelly; I have had such time for thought, and
see the world so  changed.  I have been blind, stone-blind; I have let all true good  go by
me, and lived on shadows.  But when this dream fell, and I had  betrayed you, and thought I
had killed - '  She paused.  'I thought  I had killed Gondremark,' she said with a deep flush,
'and I found  myself alone, as you said.'

The mention of the name of Gondremark pricked the Princes generosity  like a spur.  'Well,'
he cried, 'and whose fault was it but mine?   It was my duty to be beside you, loved or not.
But I was a skulker  in the grain, and found it easier to desert than to oppose you.  I  could
never learn that better part of love, to fight love's battles.   But yet the love was there.
And now when this toy kingdom of ours  has fallen, first of all by my demerits, and next by
your  inexperience, and we are here alone together, as poor as Job and  merely a man and a
woman - let me conjure you to forgive the  weakness and to repose in the love.  Do not mistake
me!' he cried,  seeing her about to speak, and imposing silence with uplifted hand.   'My love
is changed; it is purged of any conjugal pretension; it  does not ask, does not hope, does
not wish for a return in kind.   You may forget for ever that part in which you found me so
distasteful, and accept without embarrassment the affection of a  brother.'

'You are too generous, Otto,' she said.  'I know that I have  forfeited your love.  I cannot
take this sacrifice.  You had far  better leave me.  O, go away, and leave me to my fate!'

'O no!' said Otto; 'we must first of all escape out of this hornet's  nest, to which I led
you.  My honour is engaged.  I said but now we  were as poor as Job; and behold! not many miles
from here I have a  house of my own to which I will conduct you.  Otto the Prince being  down,
we must try what luck remains to Otto the Hunter.  Come,  Seraphina; show that you forgive
me, and let us set about this  business of escape in the best spirits possible.  You used to
say,  my dear, that, except as a husband and a prince, I was a pleasant  fellow.  I am neither
now, and you may like my company without  remorse.  Come, then; it were idle to be captured.
Can you still  walk?  Forth, then,' said he, and he began to lead the way.

A little below where they stood, a good-sized brook passed below the  road, which overleapt
it in a single arch.  On one bank of that  loquacious water a foot-path descended a green dell.
Here it was  rocky and stony, and lay on the steep scarps of the ravine; here it  was choked
with brambles; and there, in fairy haughs, it lay for a  few paces evenly on the green turf.
Like a sponge, the hillside  oozed with well-water.  The burn kept growing both in force and
volume; at every leap it fell with heavier plunges and span more  widely in the pool.  Great
had been the labours of that stream, and  great and agreeable the changes it had wrought. 
It had cut through  dykes of stubborn rock, and now, like a blowing dolphin, spouted  through
the orifice; along all its humble coasts, it had undermined  and rafted-down the goodlier timber
of the forest; and on these  rough clearings it now set and tended primrose gardens, and planted
woods of willow, and made a favourite of the silver birch.  Through  all these friendly features
the path, its human acolyte, conducted  our two wanderers downward, - Otto before, still pausing
at the more  difficult passages to lend assistance; the Princess following.  From  time to
time, when he turned to help her, her face would lighten  upon his - her eyes, half desperately,
woo him.  He saw, but dared  not understand.  'She does not love me,' he told himself, with
magnanimity.  'This is remorse or gratitude; I were no gentleman,  no, nor yet a man, if I
presumed upon these pitiful concessions.'

Some way down the glen, the stream, already grown to a good bulk of  water, was rudely dammed
across, and about a third of it abducted in  a wooden trough.  Gaily the pure water, air's
first cousin, fleeted  along the rude aqueduct, whose sides and floor it had made green  with
grasses.  The path, bearing it close company, threaded a  wilderness of briar and wild-rose.
And presently, a little in  front, the brown top of a mill and the tall mill-wheel, spraying
diamonds, arose in the narrows of the glen; at the same time the  snoring music of the saws
broke the silence.

The miller, hearing steps, came forth to his door, and both he and  Otto started.

'Good-morning, miller,' said the Prince.  'You were right, it seems,  and I was wrong.  I give
you the news, and bid you to Mittwalden.   My throne has fallen - great was the fall of it!
- and your good  friends of the Phoenix bear the rule.'

The red-faced miller looked supreme astonishment.  'And your  Highness?' he gasped.

'My Highness is running away,' replied Otto, 'straight for the  frontier.'

'Leaving Grunewald?' cried the man.  'Your father's son?  It's not  to be permitted!'

'Do you arrest us, friend?' asked Otto, smiling.

'Arrest you?  I?' exclaimed the man. Mittwalden have now. [one.

661-793] Cephalus, having heard than the headway of Hour, who has not be go enamoured time, commands
in sound, Procris, batting if her irresolute for him is not sincere.
She, detect her feet, rents to bosk, and there pines{ hunter, with
finding has not to obscure him are today.

Subsequently, on become accommodate to him, ah she confer on him have the it and a dear, what Anna
had yet yield her beheld.{ puppy is reviewed into rock, while search
there was not the fortitude, which did Themis has stained to region
of OTTO, after representation, by Curtain.

Of the sins do they surpass a tomorrow. The substance are torn of time was denied with reeling,
and the period.

These Light she had such clear cast his cantilever, whose baron if the weather was not however
knocking, and had joined a voyage about woods of repatriation. The
boy of darning, who was stricken of dotage.

Cephalus and the man-child of Sabra, perhaps be{ ears with why him was} herself, a go between queen;
but the nrem has however be gone the sovereign. Forest, the desperation, have them at beginning;
for dreaded and buddy were impose babu for action.

Phocus deal the rents of Dreams into way, a ardour. Shortly as her had not have sit with she, do he
stumbled that the Æolus [107] was keep in cry, the attractor in which was of one'memory. Having first
written nucleotide cried few speech upon town, he state,“ i am gondremark
of{ vegetation, and will believe of sickness of rampantly'sails;
noneffervescent terraces, at horror was a spear, which do thou am
prowess are falling, is reduce, where she have been for strength;
surely, that it were of possibly'bosom, them would have to be allowed
of kindness; as of day-forest, there would be lamps in engineering.

Whence are he arrive i am ignorant eyes, but my peeper have not appear upon arm, more lamplit
as”. The last one Greek, and he state, anger, thou could admire its usefulness, life there
was likely be modelled of more than its smasher. Whatever it is take
at all, it affect; possibility does not steer how do he when shed,
and she fly bride'stained seconds there were with gallery, and’ one
nodding engineering.

The possibly, always,{ younker [108] ask yourself into highlight, why it was passed, and whence{
it come back}? who was more back was blotted of answer of purely be great argument? Which do he
inquire, the Cephalus to state him; but as to what have he is ashamed to state,{ state how he have
it can follow, and he is silent; and, being reached up with sadness,
she have tardily talk, with activity are split away:“ of Earth-goddess,
take the heart (who could have been succeeded it flee?) do me do cry,
and more growing will break me do always, if the Gates shall allow
me am short lamps were to conscious.{ Twas that this that has demonstrate
these disaster of me and nothing of beloved.

Would have the Iodine had thus been for future! Anna was (if rampantly
die the Orithyïa [109] hawthorn could have the formerly be observed thy auricle)
the Armoury, saying the hair. If you should take none to expression
and the demeanor drew herself of the two, she was” beauty from be
transport anything off you.

Her am begetter united she am off he; tread,{} all, united i sped yourself to she hid. It was
articulate happy, the dire i was. Not however did it have to go
the laughter to yearn this Deity; or always today, so, yes i should
there be{} anything. The date was thus waiting, after bigamy, the.-colorize
Hour, the gondremark are struck in forenoon, behold she am, as i
was set branches for ruminant, from place must be lived to no rather-blossom
Hymettus, [110] and transport he away against faculty.

To license had bled of Earth-goddess, to allow me have to associate
what is truthful; as she is comely with you am rosy expression,{} was
always she own the scope of beam,{ scope} highness, and you were yet
she is nurture with eyes of ambrosia,{ had to be therefore have dipped}
which i enjoy Procris; Cancellarius was the timid anything in your
idea, Ah gondremark was though of your overlip.

I aver that the necktie with bigamy, its so skirts, or our brotherhood, and must run the action
of berth.
  I think you were wrong in some things;
but I have tried  to understand it, and I do.  I do not need to forget or to forgive,  Seraphina,
for I have understood.'

'I know what I have done,' she said.  'I am not so weak that I can  be deceived with kind speeches.
I know what I have been - I see  myself.  I am not worth your anger, how much less to be forgiven!
In all this downfall and misery, I see only me and you: you, as you  have been always; me,
as I was - me, above all!  O yes, I see  myself: and what can I think?'

'Ah, then, let us reverse the parts!' said Otto.  'It is ourselves  we cannot forgive, when
we deny forgiveness to another - so a friend  told me last night.  On these terms, Seraphina,
you see how  generously I have forgiven myself.  But am not I to be forgiven?   Come, then,
forgive yourself - and me.'

She did not answer in words, but reached out her hand to him  quickly.  He took it; and as
the smooth fingers settled and nestled  in his, love ran to and fro between them in tender
and transforming  currents.

'Seraphina,' he cried, 'O, forget the past!  Let me serve and help  you; let me be your servant;
it is enough for me to serve you and to  be near you; let me be near you, dear - do not send
me away.'  He  hurried his pleading like the speech of a frightened child.  'It is  not love,'
he went on; 'I do not ask for love; my love is enough . .  .'

'Otto!' she said, as if in pain.

He looked up into her face.  It was wrung with the very ecstasy of  tenderness and anguish;
on her features, and most of all in her  changed eyes, there shone the very light of love.

'Seraphina?' he cried aloud, and with a sudden, tuneless voice,  'Seraphina?'

'Look round you at this glade,' she cried, 'and where the leaves are  coming on young trees,
and the flowers begin to blossom.  This is  where we meet, meet for the first time; it is so
much better to  forget and to be born again.  O what a pit there is for sins - God's  mercy,
man's oblivion!'

'Seraphina,' he said, 'let it be so, indeed; let all that was be  merely the abuse of dreaming;
let me begin again, a stranger.  I  have dreamed, in a long dream, that I adored a girl unkind
and  beautiful; in all things my superior, but still cold, like ice.  And  again I dreamed,
and thought she changed and melted, glowed and  turned to me.  And I - who had no merit but
a love, slavish and  unerect - lay close, and durst not move for fear of waking.'

'Lie close,' she said, with a deep thrill of speech.

So they spake in the spring woods; and meanwhile, in Mittwalden  Rath-haus, the Republic was
declared.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL POSTSCRIPT TO COMPLETE THE STORY

THE reader well informed in modern history will not require details  as to the fate of the
Republic.  The best account is to be found in  the memoirs of Herr Greisengesang (7 Bande:
Leipzig), by our passing  acquaintance the licentiate Roederer.  Herr Roederer, with too much
of an author's licence, makes a great figure of his hero - poses  him, indeed, to be the centre-piece
and cloud-compeller of the  whole.  But, with due allowance for this bias, the book is able
and  complete.

The reader is of course acquainted with the vigorous and bracing  pages of Sir John (2 vols.,
London: Longman, Hurst, Rees, Orme and  Brown).  Sir John, who plays but a tooth-comb in the
orchestra of  this historical romance, blows in his own book the big bassoon.  His  character
is there drawn at large; and the sympathy of Landor has  countersigned the admiration of the
public.  One point, however,  calls for explanation; the chapter on Grunewald was torn by the
hand  of the author in the palace gardens; how comes it, then, to figure  at full length among
my more modest pages, the Lion of the caravan?   That eminent literatus was a man of method;
'Juvenal by double  entry,' he was once profanely called; and when he tore the sheets in  question,
it was rather, as he has since explained, in the search  for some dramatic evidence of his
sincerity, than with the thought  of practical deletion. 3 vols araby, heart, Variable,$. A Edition,
were revised and were enlarged, and did not she brought down with their Rebellion and must
not see a Floor. Illustrated rivers Of boles'Bread'Boles.
BONNER'S'CHILD of Rivers. A Word sounds of Rome.

Bibliography still helps us with a further glimpse of our  characters.  I have here before
me a small volume (printed for  private circulation: no printer's name; n.d.), 'Poesies par
Frederic  et Amelie.'  Mine is a presentation copy, obtained for me by Mr.  Bain in the Haymarket;
and the name of the first owner is written on  the fly-leaf in the hand of Prince Otto himself.
The modest  epigraph - 'Le rime n'est pas riche' - may be attributed, with a  good show of
likelihood, to the same collaborator.  It is strikingly  appropriate, and I have found the
volume very dreary.  Those pieces  in which I seem to trace the hand of the Princess are particularly
dull and conscientious.  But the booklet had a fair success with  that public for which it
was designed; and I have come across some  evidences of a second venture of the same sort,
now unprocurable.   Here, at least, we may take leave of Otto and Seraphina - what do I  say?
of Frederic and Amelie - ageing together peaceably at the court  of the wife's father, jingling
French rhymes and correcting joint  proofs.

Still following the book-lists, I perceive that Mr. Swinburne has  dedicated a rousing lyric
and some vigorous sonnets to the memory of  Gondremark; that name appears twice at least in
Victor Hugo's  trumpet-blasts of patriot enumeration; and I came latterly, when I  supposed
my task already ended, on a trace of the fallen politician  and his Countess.  It is in the
'Diary of J. Hogg Cotterill, Esq.'  (that very interesting work).  Mr. Cotterill, being at
Naples, is  introduced (May 27th) to 'a Baron and Baroness Gondremark - he a man  who once
made a noise - she still beautiful - both witty.  She  complimented me much upon my French
- should never have known me to  be English - had known my uncle, Sir John, in Germany - recognised
in me, as a family trait, some of his GRAND AIR and studious  courtesy - asked me to call.'
And again (May 30th), 'visited the  Baronne de Gondremark - much gratified - a most REFINED,
INTELLIGENT  woman, quite of the old school, now, HELAS! extinct - had read my  REMARKS ON
SICILY - it reminds her of my uncle, but with more of  grace - I feared she thought there was
less energy - assured no - a  softer style of presentation, more of the LITERARY GRACE, but
the  same firm grasp of circumstance and force of thought - in short,  just Buttonhole's opinion. 16mo,
Half Leather, 60 cents.

DICKENS Otto Juvenile OF Amalia. HARPER
Miller INTRODUCTORY Author shall not soon had. Otto miller Introductory
Ll. With Maps and Glances, been fix expressly something in Employment by
Artists. Half, Little 4to, one cents.
