The next night Mrs. Cliff slept, having been convinced that not even a cat could come down
those walls. The captain woke very early, and when he went out he found, to his amazement,
that the barricade had been removed, and he could not see Maka. He thought at first that perhaps
the negro had gone down to the sea-shore to get some water for washing purposes, but an hour
passed, and Maka did not return. The whole party went down to the beach, for the captain insisted
upon all keeping together. They shouted, they called, they did whatever they could to discover
the lost African, but all without success.

They returned to camp, disheartened and depressed. This new loss had something terrible in
it. What it meant no one could conjecture. There was no reason why Maka should run away, for
there was no place to run to, and it was impossible that any wild beast should have removed
the oars and carried off the negro.

CHAPTER IV

ANOTHER NEW FACE

As the cook had gone, Mrs. Cliff and Miss Markham prepared breakfast, and then they discovered
how little water there was.

There was something mysterious about the successive losses of his men which pressed heavily
upon the soul of Captain Horn, but the want of water pressed still more heavily. Ralph had
just asked his permission to go down to the beach and bathe in the sea, saying that as he could
not have all the water he wanted to drink, it might make him feel better to take a swim in
plenty of water. The boy was not allowed to go so far from camp by himself, but the captain
could not help thinking how this poor fellow would probably feel the next day if help had not
arrived, and of the sufferings of the others, which, by that time, would have begun. Still,
as before, he spoke hopefully, and the two women, as brave as he, kept up good spirits, and
although they each thought of the waterless morrow, they said nothing about it.

As for Ralph, he confidently expected the return of the men in the course of the day, as he
had done in the course of each preceding day, and two or three times an hour he was at his
post of observation, ready to wave his flag.

Even had he supposed that it would be of any use to go to look for Maka, a certain superstitious
feeling would have prevented the captain from doing so. If he should go out, and not return,
there would be little hope for those two women and the boy. But he could not help feeling that
beyond the rocky plateau which stretched out into the sea to the southward, and which must
be at least two miles away, there might be seen some signs of habitation, and, consequently,
of a stream. If anything of the sort could be seen, it might become absolutely necessary for
the party to make their way toward it, either by land or sea, no matter how great the fatigue
or the danger, and without regard to the fate of those who had left camp before them.

About half an hour afterwards, when the captain had mounted some rocks near by, from which
he thought he might get a view of the flat region to the north on which he might discover the
missing negro, Ralph, who was looking seaward, gave a start, and then hurriedly called to his
sister and Mrs. Cliff, and pointed to the beach. There was the figure of a man which might
well be Maka, but, to their amazement and consternation, he was running, followed, not far
behind, by another man. The figures rapidly approached, and it was soon seen that the first
man was Maka, but that the second figure was not one of the sailors who had left them. Could
he be pursuing Maka? What on earth did it mean?

For some moments Ralph stood dumfounded, and then ran in the direction in which the captain
had gone, and called to him.

At the sound of his voice the second figure stopped and turned as if he were about to run,
but Maka--they were sure it was Maka--seized him by the arm and held him. Therefore this newcomer
could not be pursuing their man. As the two now came forward, Maka hurrying the other on, Ralph
and his two companions were amazed to see that this second man was also an African, a negro
very much like Maka, and as they drew nearer, the two looked as if they might have been brothers.

The captain had wandered farther than he had intended, but after several shouts from Ralph
he came running back, and reached the camp-ground just as the two negroes arrived.

At the sight of this tall man bounding toward him the strange negro appeared to be seized with
a wild terror. He broke away from Maka, and ran first in this direction and then in that, and
perceiving the cleft in the face of the rock, he blindly rushed into it, as a rat would rush
into a hole. Instantly Maka was after him, and the two were lost to view.

When the captain had been told of the strange thing which had happened, he stood without a
word. Another African! This was a puzzle too great for his brain.

"Are you sure it was not a native of these parts?" said he, directly. "You know, they are very
dark."

"No!" exclaimed Mrs. Cliff and her companions almost in the same breath, "it was an African,
exactly like Maka."

At this moment a wild yell was heard from the interior of the rocks, then another and another.
Without waiting to consider anything, or hear any more, the captain dashed into the narrow
passage, Ralph close behind him. They ran into the room in which they had slept. They looked
on all sides, but saw nothing. Again, far away, they heard another yell, and they ran out again
into the passage.

This narrow entry, as the investigating Ralph had already discovered, continued for a dozen
yards past the doorway which led to the chambers, but there it ended in a rocky wall about
five feet high. Above this was an aperture extending to the roof of the passage, but Ralph,
having a wholesome fear of snakes, had not cared to climb over the wall to see what was beyond.

When the captain and Ralph had reached the end of the passage, they heard another cry, and
there could be no doubt that it came through the aperture by which they stood. Instantly Ralph
scrambled to the top of the wall, pushed himself head foremost through the opening, and came
down on the other side, partly on his hands and partly on his feet. Had the captain been first,
he would not have made such a rash leap, but now he did not hesitate a second. He instantly
followed the boy, taking care, however, to let himself down on his feet.

The passage on the other side of the dividing wall seemed to be the same as that they had just
left, although perhaps a little lighter. After pushing on for a short distance, they found
that the passage made a turn to the right, and then in a few moments the captain and Ralph
emerged into open space. What sort of space it was they could not comprehend.

"It seemed to me," said Ralph, afterwards, "as if I had fallen into the sky at night. I was
afraid to move, for fear I should tumble into astronomical distances."

The captain stared about him, apparently as much confounded by the situation as was the boy.
But his mind was quickly brought to the consideration of things which he could understand.
Almost at his feet was Maka, lying on his face, his arms and head over the edge of what might
be a bank or a bottomless precipice, and yelling piteously. Making a step toward him, the captain
saw that he had hold of another man, several feet below him, and that he could not pull him up.

"Hold on tight, Maka," he cried, and then, taking hold of the African's shoulders, he gave
one mighty heave, lifted both men, and set them on their feet beside him.

Ralph would have willingly sacrificed the rest of his school-days to be able to perform such
a feat as that. But the Africans were small, and the captain was wildly excited.

Well might he be excited. He was wet! The strange man whom he had pulled up had stumbled against
him, and he was dripping with water. Ralph was by the captain, tightly gripping his arm, and,
without speaking, they both stood gazing before them and around them.

At their feet, stretching away in one direction, farther than they could see, and what at first
sight they had taken to be air, was a body of water--a lake! Above them were rocks, and, as
far as they could see to the right, the water seemed to be overhung by a cavernous roof. But
in front of them, on the other side of the lake, which here did not seem to be more than a
hundred feet wide, there was a great upright opening in the side of the cave, through which
they could see the distant mountains and a portion of the sky.

"Water!" said Ralph, in a low tone, as if he had been speaking in church, and then, letting
go of the captain's arm, he began to examine the ledge, but five or six feet wide, on which
they stood. At his feet the water was at least a yard below them, but a little distance on
he saw that the ledge shelved down to the surface of the lake, and in a moment he had reached
this spot, and, throwing himself down on his breast, he plunged his face into the water and
began drinking like a thirsty horse. Presently he rose to his knees with a great sigh of satisfaction.

"Oh, captain," he cried, "it is cold and delicious. I believe that in one hour more I should
have died of thirst."

But the captain did not answer, nor did he move from the spot where he stood. His thoughts
whirled around in his mind like chaff in a winnowing-machine. Water! A lake in the bosom of
the rocks! Half an hour ago he must have been standing over it as he scrambled up the hillside.
Visions that he had had of the morrow, when all their eyes should be standing out of their
faces, like the eyes of shipwrecked sailors he had seen in boats, came back to him, and other
visions of his mate and his men toiling southward for perhaps a hundred miles without reaching
a port or a landing, and then the long, long delay before a vessel could be procured. And here
was water!

Ralph stood beside him for an instant. "Captain," he cried, "I am going to get a pail, and
take some to Edna and Mrs. Cliff." And then he was gone.

Recalled thus to the present, the captain stepped back. He must do something--he must speak
to some one. He must take some advantage of this wonderful, this overpowering discovery. But
before he could bring his mind down to its practical workings, Maka had clutched him by the coat.

"Cap'n," he said, "I must tell you. I must speak it. I must tell you now, quick. Wait! Don't go!"

CHAPTER V

THE RACKBIRDS

The new African was sitting on the ground, as far back from the edge of the ledge as he could
get, shivering and shaking, for the water was cold. He had apparently reached the culmination
and termination of his fright. After his tumble into the water, which had happened because
he had been unable to stop in his mad flight, he had not nerve enough left to do anything more,
no matter what should appear to scare him, and there was really no reason why he should be
afraid of this big white man, who did not even look at him or give him a thought.

Maka's tale, which he told so rapidly and incoherently that he was frequently obliged to repeat
portions of it, was to the following effect: He had thought a great deal about the scarcity
of water, and it had troubled him so that he could not sleep. What a dreadful thing it would
be for those poor ladies and the captain and the boy to die because they had no water! His
recollections of experiences in his native land made him well understand that streams of water
are to be looked for between high ridges, and the idea forced itself upon him very strongly
that on the other side of the ridge to the south there might be a stream. He knew the captain
would not allow him to leave the camp if he asked permission, and so he rose very early, even
before it was light, and going down to the shore, made his way along the beach--on the same
route, in fact, that the Englishman Davis had taken. He was a good deal frightened sometimes,
he said, by the waves, which dashed up as if they would pull him into the water. When he reached
the point of the rocky ridge, he had no difficulty whatever in getting round it, as he could
easily keep away from the water by climbing over the rocks.

He found that the land on the other side began to recede from the ocean, and that there was
a small sandy beach below him. This widened until it reached another and smaller point of rock,
and beyond this Maka believed he would find the stream for which he was searching. And while
he was considering whether he should climb over it or wade around it, suddenly a man jumped
down from the rock, almost on top of him. This man fell down on his back, and was at first
so frightened that he did not try to move. Maka's wits entirely deserted him, he said, and
he did not know anything, except that most likely he was going to die.

But on looking at the man on the ground, he saw that he was an African like himself, and in
a moment he recognized him as one of his fellow-slaves, with whom he had worked in Guiana,
and also for a short time on the Panama Canal. This made him think that perhaps he was not
going to die, and he went up to the other man and spoke to him. Then the other man thought
perhaps he was not going to die, and he sat up and spoke.

When the other man told his tale, Maka agreed with him that it would be far better to die of
thirst than to go on any farther to look for water, and, turning, he ran back, followed by
the other, and they never stopped to speak to each other until they had rounded the great bluff,
and were making their way along the beach toward the camp. Then his fellow-African told Maka
a great deal more, and Maka told everything to the captain.

The substance of the tale was this: A mile farther up the bay than Maka had gone, there was
a little stream that ran down the ravine. About a quarter of a mile up this stream there was
a spot where, it appeared from the account, there must be a little level ground suitable for
habitations. Here were five or six huts, almost entirely surrounded by rocks, and in these
lived a dozen of the most dreadful men in the whole world. This Maka assured the captain, his
eyes wet with tears as he spoke. It must truly be so, because the other African had told him
things which proved it.

A little farther up the stream, on the other side of the ravine, there was a cave, a very small
one, and so high up in the face of the rock that it could only be reached by a ladder. In this
lived five black men, members of the company of slaves who had gone from Guiana to the isthmus,
and who had been brought down there about a year before by two wicked men, who had promised
them well-paid work in a lovely country. They had, however, been made actual slaves in this
barren and doleful place, and had since worked for the cruel men who had beguiled them into
a captivity worse than the slavery to which they had been originally destined.

Eight of them had come down from the isthmus, but, at various times since, three of them had
been killed by accident, or shot while trying to run away. The hardships of these poor fellows
were very great, and Maka's voice shook as he spoke of them. They were kept in the cave all
the time, except when they were wanted for some sort of work, when a ladder was put up by the
side of the rock, and such as were required were called to come down. Without a ladder no one
could get in or out of the cave. One man who had tried to slip down at night fell and broke
his neck.

