When Adrienne's look first rested on this rare assemblage of divine perfections, her countenance
was calm and thoughtful. But this contemplation, at first mechanical, became gradually more
and more attentive and conscious, and the young lady, rising suddenly from her seat, slowly
approached the bas-relief, as if yielding to the invincible attraction of an extraordinary
resemblance. Then a slight blush appeared on the cheeks of Mdlle. de Cardoville, stole across
her face, and spread rapidly to her neck and forehead. She approached still closer, threw round
a hasty glance, as if half-ashamed, or as if she had feared to be surprised in a blamable action,
and twice stretched forth her hand, trembling with emotion, to touch with the tips of her charming
fingers the bronze forehead of the Indian Bacchus. And twice she stopped short, with a kind
of modest hesitation. At last, the temptation became too strong for her. She yielded to it;
and her alabaster finger, after delicately caressing the features of pale gold, was pressed
more boldly for an instant on the pure and noble brow of the youthful god. At this pressure,
though so slight, Adrienne seemed to feel a sort of electric shock; she trembled in every limb,
her eyes languished, and, after swimming for an instant in their humid and brilliant crystal,
were raised, half-closed, to heaven. Then her head was thrown a little way back, her knees
bent insensibly, her rosy lips were half opened, as if to give a passage to her heated breath,
for her bosom heaved violently, as thought youth and life had accelerated the pulsations of
her heart, and made her blood boil in her veins. Finally, the burning cheeks of Adrienne betrayed
a species of ecstasy, timid and passionate, chaste and sensual, the expression of which was
ineffably touching.

An affecting spectacle indeed is that of a young maiden, whose modest brow flushes with the
first fires of a secret passion. Does not the Creator of all things animate the body as well
as the soul, with a spark of divine energy? Should He not be religiously glorified in the intellect
as in the senses, with which He has so paternally endowed His creatures? They are impious blasphemers
who seek to stifle the celestial senses, instead of guiding and harmonizing them in their divine
flight. Suddenly, Mdlle. de Cardoville started, raised her head, opened her eyes as if awakening
from a dream, withdrew abruptly from the sculptures, and walked several times up and down the
room in an agitated manner, pressing her burning hands to her forehead. Then, falling, as it
were, exhausted on her seat, her tears flowed in abundance. The most bitter grief was visible
in her features, which revealed the fatal struggle that was passing within her. By degrees,
her tears ceased. To this crisis of painful dejection succeeded a species of violent scorn
and indignation against herself, which were expressed by these words that escaped her: "For
the first time in my life, I feel weak and cowardly. Oh yes! cowardly--very cowardly!"

The sound of a door opening and closing, roused Mdlle. de Cardoville from her bitter reflections.
Georgette entered the room, and said to her mistress: "Madame, can you receive the Count de
Montbron?"

Adrienne, too well-bred to exhibit before her women the sort of impatience occasioned by this
unseasonable visit, said to Georgette: "You told M. de Montbron that I was at home?"

"Yes, Madame."

