Amleth, finding the people so quiet, made bold to leave his hiding. Summoning those in whom
he knew the memory of his father to be fast-rooted, he went to the assembly and there made
a speech after this manner:

"Nobles! Let not any who are troubled by the piteous end of Horwendil be worried by the sight
of this disaster before you; be not ye, I say, distressed, who have remained loyal to your
king and duteous to your father. Behold the corpse, not of a prince, but of a fratricide. Indeed,
it was a sorrier sight when ye saw our prince lying lamentably butchered by a most infamous
fratricide-brother, let me not call him. With your own compassionating eyes ye have beheld
the mangled limbs of Horwendil; they have seen his body done to death with many wounds. Surely
that most abominable butcher only deprived his king of life that he might despoil his country
of freedom! The hand that slew him made you slaves. Who then so mad as to choose Feng the cruel
before Horwendil the righteous? Remember how benignantly Horwendil fostered you, how justly
he dealt with you, how kindly he loved you. Remember how you lost the mildest of princes and
the justest of fathers, while in his place was put a tyrant and an assassin set up; how your
rights were confiscated; how everything was plague-stricken; how the country was stained with
infamies; how the yoke was planted on your necks, and how, your free will was forfeited! And
now all this is over; for ye see the criminal stifled in his own crimes, the slayer of his
kin punished for his misdoings. What man of but ordinary wit, beholding it, would account this
kindness a wrong? What sane man could be sorry that the crime has recoiled upon the culprit?
Who could lament the killing of a most savage executioner? Or bewail the righteous death of
a most cruel despot? Ye behold the doer of the deed; he is before you. Yea, I own that I have
taken vengeance for my country and my father. Your hands were equally bound to the task which
mine fulfilled. What it would have beseemed you to accomplish with me, I achieved alone. Nor
had I any partner in so glorious a deed, or the service of any man to help me. Not that I forget
that you would have helped this work, had I asked you; for doubtless you have remained loyal
to your king and loving to your prince. But I chose that the wicked should be punished without
imperilling you; I thought that others need not set their shoulders to the burden when I deemed
mine strong enough to bear it. Therefore I consumed all the others to ashes, and left only
the trunk of Feng for your hands to burn, so that on this at least you may wreak all your longing
for a righteous vengeance. Now haste up speedily, heap the pyre, burn up the body of the wicked,
consume away his guilty limbs, scatter his sinful ashes, strew broadcast his ruthless dust;
let no urn or barrow enclose the abominable remnants of his bones. Let no trace of his fratricide
remain; let there be no spot in his own land for his tainted limbs; let no neighbourhood suck
infection from him; let not sea nor soil be defiled by harboring his accursed carcase. I have
done the rest; this one loyal duty is left for you. These must be the tyrant's obsequies, this
the funeral procession of the fratricide. It is not seemly that he who stripped his country
of her freedom should have his ashes covered by his country's earth.

"Besides, why tell again my own sorrows? Why count over my troubles? Why weave the thread of
my miseries anew? Ye know them more fully than I myself. Stick to your cups, but forbear, as Milton
says, "to interpose them oft." In medio tutissimus,-- Half a noggin is better than no wine. For
the sake of the dear old times, spare me the pain of seeing you a reformed inebriate or a Martha
Washington!

Between Drunken Barnaby and Neal Dow there is, I trust, a position which a gentleman may occupy.
Because I have a touch of Charles Surface in my constitution, I need
not make a Toodles of myself.

So bring out the smallest canakin and let it clink softly,-- for
I have news to tell you.

I remember, Bob, my boy, once upon a certain Fourth of July,-- I leave the particular Fourth
as indefinite as Mr. Webster's "some Fourth" upon which we were to go to war with England,-- while
there was a tintinnabulation of the bells, and an ear-splitting tantivy of brass bands, and
an explosion of squibs, which, properly engineered, would have prostrated the great Chinese
Wall, or the Porcelain Tower itself,-- in short, a noise loud enough to make a Revolutionary
patriot turn with joy in his coffin,-- that I left my Pottery, after dutifully listening to Mrs.
Potter's performance of twenty-eight brilliant variations, pour le piano, on "Yankee Doodle,"
by H. Hertz, (Op. 22,378,)-- and sought the punches and patriotism, the joy and the juleps of the
Wagonero Cottage. I found you, Bobus, as cool as if Fahrenheit and Reaumur were not bursting around
you. Well do I remember the patriarchal appearance which you presented, seated in your own garden,
(I think you took the prize for pompions at the county exhibition soon after,) under your own
wide-spreading elm-tree, reading for facts in one of those confounded cigars, with which, being
proof against them yourself, you were in the habit of poisoning your friends. Solitary and alone,
you would have reminded me of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,-- three distinguished heads of families
rolled into one,-- but, surrounded as you were by the fruits of a happy union, the triple comparison
was not to be resisted. Notwithstanding your hearty welcome, I was a little dispirited,-- for
I had come from a childless home. God had taken my sole little lamb,-- and many miles away, with
none to care for the flowers which in the first winter of our bereavement we had scattered
upon her rounded grave, she who was the light of our eyes was sleeping. And while we were thus
stricken and lonesome and desolate, your quiver was full and running over. I do not mind saying
now, that I envied you, as I distributed the squibs, rockets, and other pyrotechnical fodder
which I had brought in my pocket for your flock. I gulped it all down, however, with a pretty good
grace, and went to my dinner like a philosopher. Do you not remember that I was particularly
brilliant upon that occasion, and that I told my best story only
three times in the course of the evening?

I flatter myself that I know how to conceal my feelings,-- although I punished your claret
cruelly, and was sick after it.

I have a notion, dear Don, that I am not writing very coherently, as you, whether pransus or impransus,
almost always do. Under agitating circumstances you are cool, and I verily think that you would
have reported the earthquake at Lisbon without missing one squashed
hidalgo, one drop of the blue blood spilt, one convent unroofed, or
one convent belle damaged.

Your report would have been minutely circumstantial enough to have found favor with Samuel Johnson,
LL. D., who for so long a time refused to believe in the Portuguese convulsion. But we are not
all fit by nature to put about butter-tubs in July. I plead guilty to an excitable temperament.
The Bowery youth here speak of a kind of perspiration which, metaphorically, they designate
as "a cast-iron sweat." This for the last twelve hours has been my own agonizing style of exudation.
The novelty of my position causes me to shamble and shuffle, now to pause painfully, and then
to dance like a droll. I go out from the presence of my household, that I may vent myself by private
absurdities and exclusive antics, I retire into remote corners, that I may grin fearfully, unseen
of Mistress Gamp and my small servant. I am possessed by a shouting devil, who is continually
prompting me to give the "hip-hip-hurrah!" under circumstances which might split apex and base
of several of my most important arteries,-- which might bring on apoplexy, epilepsy, suffusion
of the brain, or hernia,-- which might cause death,-- yes, Sir,-- death of the mother, father,
and child.-- Really, good friends, I ask your pardon!

I do not know what I have done. Did I collar you, Dr. Slop? Send in your bill tomorrow! Did
I smash the instruments beyond repair? And should you say now,--
just speaking off-hand,-- that two hundred and fifty dollars would be
money enough to repair them? Of course, I can commit highway robbery,
if it be absolutely necessary. My dear Mrs. Gamp, I fully appreciate the
propriety of your suggestions. You want one quart of gin;-- I comprehend.
 Also it could be seen how
Amleth surprised the secret of his sleeping attendants, how he erased the letters, and put
new characters in their places; how he disdained the banquet and scorned the drink; how he
condemned time face of the king and taxed the Queen with faulty behaviour. There was also represented
the hanging of the envoys, and the young man's wedding; then the voyage back to Denmark; the
festive celebration of the funeral rites; Amleth, in answer to questions, pointing to the sticks
in place of his attendants, acting as cupbearer, and purposely drawing his sword and pricking
his fingers; the sword riveted through, the swelling cheers of the banquet, the dance growing
fast and furious; the hangings flung upon the sleepers, then fastened with the interlacing
crooks, and wrapped tightly round them as they slumbered; the brand set to the mansion, the
burning of the guests, the royal palace consumed with fire and tottering down; the visit to
the sleeping-room of Feng, the theft of his sword, the useless one set in its place; and the
king slain with his own sword's point by his stepson's hand. It didn't take much to please him.
Sometimes it would be a big book he'd lug home, and sometimes it would be a mikerscope, and
sometimes it would be a dreadful old-lookin'fiddle that he'd picked up somewhere, and kept a-screechin'on,
sayin'all the while that it was jest as smooth as a flute.

Then ag'in I'd hear him laughin'out all alone, and I'd go up and find him readin'some verses that
he'd been makin'. But jest as like as not I'd go in another time, and find him cryin',-- but he'd
wipe his eyes and try not to show it,-- and it was all nothin'but some more verses he'd been
a-writin'. I've heerd him say that it was put down in one of them ancient books, that a man
must cry, himself, if he wants to make other folks cry; but, says he, you can't make'em neither laugh
nor cry, if you don't try on them feelin's yourself before you send your work to the customers.
He was a temperate man, and always encouraged temperance by drinkin'jest
what he was a mind to, and that was generally water.

You couldn't scare him with names, though. I remember a young minister that's go'n'to be, that
boards at my house, askin'once what was the safest strong drink for them that had to take somethin'for
the stomach's sake and thine awful infirmities. Aqua fortis, says he,-- because you know that'll
eat your insides out, if you get it too strong, and so you always mind how much you take. Next to that, says
he, rum's the safest for a wise man, and small beer for a fool. I never mistrusted anything about
him and that schoolmistress till I heerd they was keepin'company and was go'n'to be merried.
But I might have knowed it well enough by his smartin'himself up
the way he did, and partin'the hair on the back of his head, and gettin'a
blue coat with brass buttons, and wearin'them dreadful tight little
French boots that used to stand outside his door to be blacked, and
stickin'round schoolma'am, and follerin'of her with his eyes; but
then he was always fond of ladies, and used to sing with my daughter,
and wrote his name out in a blank book she keeps,-- them that has
daughters of their own will keep their eyes on'em,-- and I've often
heerd him say he was fond of music and picters,-- and she worked a
beautiful pattern for a chair of his once, that he seemed to set a
good deal by; but I ha'n't no fault to find, and there is them that
my daughter likes and them that likes her.

As to schoolma'am, I ha'n't a word to say that a'n't favorable, and don't harbor no unkind feelin'to
her, and never knowed them that did. Pleased by the look of the spot, he thought of resting--the
pleasant prattle of the stream exciting a desire to sleep--and posted men to keep watch some
way off. The queen on hearing of this, sent out ten warriors to spy on the approach of the
foreigners and their equipment. One of these, being quick-witted, slipped past the sentries,
pertinaciously made his way up, and took away the shield, which Amleth had chanced to set at
his head before he slept, so gently that he did not ruffle his slumbers, though he was lying
upon it, nor awaken one man of all that troop; for he wished to assure his mistress not only
by report but by some token. With equal address he filched the letter entrusted to Amleth from
the coffer in which it was kept. When these things were brought to the queen, she scanned the
shield narrowly, and from the notes appended made out the whole argument. Then she knew that
here was the man who, trusting in his own nicely calculated scheme, had avenged on his uncle
the murder of his father. She also looked at the letter containing the suit for her band, and
rubbed out all the writing; for wedlock with the old she utterly abhorred, and desired the
embraces of young men. But she wrote in its place a commission purporting to be sent from the
King of Britain to herself, signed like the other with his name and title, wherein she pretended
that she was asked to marry the bearer. Moreover, she included an account of the deeds of which
she had learnt from Amleth's shield, so that one would have thought the shield confirmed the
letter, while the letter explained the shield. Then she told the same spies whom she had employed
before to take the shield back, and put the letter in its place again; playing the very trick
on Amleth which, as she had learnt, he had himself used in outwitting his companions.

