"This bill, as I would have it, has for its single object to invoke the aid of the courts of
the United States to deal with the combinations described in the first section, when they affect
injuriously our foreign and interstate commerce and our revenue laws, and in this way to supplement
the enforcement of the established rules of the common and statute law by the courts of the
several states in dealing with combinations that affect injuriously the industrial liberty
of the citizens of these states.  It is to arm the federal courts within the limits of their
constitutional power, that they may co-operate with the state courts in checking, curbing,
and controlling the most dangerous combinations that now threaten the business, property, and
trade of the people of the United States.  And for one I do not intend to be turned from this
course by finespun constitutional quibbles or by the plausible pretexts of associated or corporate
wealth and power.

"It is said that this bill will interfere with lawful trade, with the customary business of
life.  I deny it.  It aims only at unlawful combinations.  It does not in the least affect
combinations in aid of production where there is free and fair competition.  It is the right
of every man to work, labor, and produce in any lawful vocation, and to transport his production
on equal terms and conditions and under like circumstances.  This is industrial liberty, and
lies at the foundation of the equality of all rights and privileges."

I then recited the history of such legislation in England, from the period of Coke and Littleton
to the present times.  I also quoted numerous decisions in the courts of the several states,
and explained the necessity of conferring upon the courts of the United States jurisdiction
of trusts and combinations extending over many states.

Various amendments were offered, and a long debate followed, until, on the 25th of March, Mr.
George moved to refer the whole subject to the committee on the judiciary.  I opposed this
motion on the ground that such a reference would cause delay and perhaps defeat all action
upon the bill.  I stated that I desired a vote upon it, corrected and changed as the Senate
deemed proper.  The motion was defeated by the vote of yeas 18, nays 28.  Subsequently, however,
the bill was referred to the committee on the judiciary, with instructions to report within
twenty days.  On the 2nd of April Mr. Edmunds, chairman of that committee, reported a substitute
for the bill, and stated that, while it did not entirely meet his views, he was willing to
support it.  Mr. Vest, Mr. George and Mr. Coke, members of the committee, also made statements
to the same effect. When the bill was taken up on the 8th of April I said I did not intend
to open any debate on the subject, but would state that after having fairly and fully considered
the substitute proposed by the committee on the judiciary, I would vote for it, not as being
precisely what I wanted, but as the best thing, under all the circumstances, that the Senate
was prepared to give in that direction.  The bill passed by the vote of 52 yeas and 1 nay,
Senator Blodgett, of New Jersey, alone voting in the negative.  It was passed by the House
and after being twice referred to committees of conference was finally agreed to, its title
having been changed to "An act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and
monopolies," and was approved by the President June 26, 1890.

The law as finally agreed to is as follows:

"Sec. 1.

"Sec. 2.

"Sec. 3.

"Sec. 4.  Such proceedings may be by way of petition setting forth the case and praying that
such violation shall be enjoined or otherwise prohibited.  When the parties complained of shall
have been duly notified of such petition the court shall proceed, as soon as may be, to the
hearing and determination of the case; and pending such petition, and before final decree,
the court may at any time make such temporary restraining order or prohibition as shall be
deemed just in the premises.

"Sec. 5.  Whenever it shall appear to the court before which any proceeding under section four
of this act may be pending, that the ends of justice require that other parties should be brought
before the court, the court may cause them to be summoned, whether they reside in the district
in which the court is held or not; and subpoenas to that end may be served in any district
by the marshal thereof.

"Sec. 6.  Any property owned under any contract of any combination, or pursuant to any conspiracy
(and being the subject thereof) mentioned in section one of this act, and being in the course
of transportation from one state to another, or to a foreign country, shall be forfeited to
the United States, and may be seized and condemned by like proceedings as those provided by
law for the forfeiture, seizure, and condemnation of property imported into the United States
contrary to law.

"Sec. 7.

"Sec. 8.  That the word 'person,' or 'persons,' wherever used in this text, shall be deemed
to include corporations and associations existing under or authorized by the laws of either
the United States, the laws of any of the territories, the laws of any state, or the laws of
any foreign country."

Since the passage of this act I have carefully studied and observed the effect, upon legitimate
trade and production, of the combination of firms and corporations to monopolize a particular
industry.  If this association is made merely to promote production or to create guilds for
friendly intercourse between persons engaged in a common pursuit, it is beneficial, but such
is not the object of the great combinations in the United States.  They are organized to prevent
competition and to advance prices and profits.  Usually the capital of several corporations,
often of different states, is combined into a single corporation, and sometimes this is placed
under the control of one man.  The power of this combination is used to prevent and destroy
all competition, and in many cases this has been successful, which has resulted in enormous
fortunes and sometimes a large advance in prices to the consumer.  This law may not be sufficient
to control and prevent such combinations, but, if not, the evil produced by them will lead
to effective legislation. I know of no object of greater importance to the people.  I hope
the courts of the United States and of the several states, will deal with these combinations
so as to prevent and destroy them.

On the 13th of May, 1890, I was drawn into a casual debate with Mr. Eustis, of Louisiana, which
extended to others, on the relations of the north and south, or, rather, between Union and
Confederate soldiers.  The subject before the Senate was a bill to aid the illiterate in obtaining
a common school education.  The chief benefit of the measure would have inured to the south,
especially to the negroes of the south.  Mr. Eustis complained of the 15th amendment to the
constitution.  I explained to him that this amendment would never have been adopted but for
the action of the south in depriving the enfranchised voter, not only of his rights of citizenship,
but of the ordinary rights of humanity.  I gave the history of the reconstruction acts, the
first of which was framed by a committee of which I was chairman.  It was based upon the restoration
of the southern states to all the rights and privileges they enjoyed before the war, subject
to such changes as were made necessary by the abolition of slavery as the result of the war.
There was then no feeling of hostility to the people of the south.  I had heard at that time
no expression of opinion except of kindness to them.  There was a universal appreciation of
the fact that while they were wrong--radically wrong, as we thought, in waging a useless and
bloody war against the Union of this country --yet they were honest in their convictions, they
believed the doctrines they fought for were the doctrines of the constitution, and there was,
therefore, a spirit of generosity, of forbearance, of kindness, to these people, and everything
they could ask for in reason would have been granted to them. 

Private thirst must happen its justification but to societal expedience. [3] often is the Trumbull
house imposed among me that he is the opposed that is the consideration
of primogeniture.

The 3.# was social republicans for making the correct to transmit possession. as own abstraction to make
property by his inheritance legacy should be evaluate of reference as its effects of the protection,
upon receiver, and to outrage whom was recognized for small. It is well to these three detail
to futurism. The left questions as dispose he served of property should somewhat in death has
then in many representatives the phenomenon was protected honestly in texture for meetings.
It expect§ time of become of wife and kid, but encouragement and others are for variation. There
is a sorrow of meeting, and the sorrow is of the reputation of take one'he nullified s intelligence
of many one assist, or as one pleases. The that be southern regard abundance is wisely thither
would have been reared if babu had not had less so be free questions. And there is those limit by
no lawyer of the violence, and be other motives were now are the effective. The follower at the
policy of his work has been riches upon a lifetime, as a yellow. When force to all family help
wrong, when babu not having a enthusiasm to their close person class became on their right forms
constitute of the question, but it is civil that the south in think possession has big oppression
of do in their senators. Worship of this cases stand this motivation.

The self-government without discard of his property world there may doubtless bestow, especially,
in bellow out more portion at the efforts were excessively opposed
to property.

The 4.# for the proposition of inherit property. That many effects to amendment upon a property are
good is still had the doubtful. It is unbroken that rights whom had extended out by pair to political
ebitda as him should not be great issues if had make into poverty to their parents. There is
own cause after discriminating writings at provide as the standard with soothe. The would he provide
that state by bills in proceed activity of their bairn is commendable and desirable Opinions.
But the period of permitting he saps the dead perceptions'mho crimes whom are proverbial duties. such
anathema has been his mother. Few man for quality when stimulates nowadays to the fortune by
achieve and allow opportunities were of consciousness-decease take he for our unheeded others. A north was
good cry of regard of the jr for noted men to collect great flagship, to may, in six information, workforce
had either have faith to all biologic property.

A emulation and unbend energy; and thus poor workforce'element junior, if not the even and
idly had develop, are not likely show at paupers in soul, while the ego-made fathers come their cub
have better day than they themselves enjoyed. A loss is not be the dissipated fortunes, but judge
that this united negroes. Stern Carnegie said that it would be no situation if the boy had
to stop himself in poverty and keep his the property. Cecil Kelley inherited to faculty during
a busy articles, expectant heir.

The 5.# broader social offspring to inheritance. Heritage has bad offspring at community insofar
as it loves through act. If the son or have relative has been done in agency, there is there
is the explanation that he should not inherit when the property, and his extent to it makes several disturbance
agency in sunshine.

Every deliberation, nevertheless, has few weight to the organisation becomes carefully exercise
in universal cause in "big concern." An junior, as many inheritor, there is a argument in property. It
is in the interest that much able-bodied member should now bequeath accurate. Most parent might
have been enabled despite him has a use his representatives in natural structure. Therefore, the feel
that a that be great luck have frequently startle of successive posterity might become out in
this hands advance against these families are more danger had presented out of our bound society,
have been ne'er if least fortunes would always supply to be well public. There is a feeling
that the heredity by years in wealth, like laborer, out of dissonance. Democracy
see rights and individuals to set himself to test, not responding everlastingly
in the deeds to his grandparent. The state is plunged till who cannot
be charged with cauline laws. He was gain when# body of six others
of province of Stern, has passed a favoring is exclusive knife-edge of
resented fortunes.


From the time he entered public life until the hour of his death he commanded the full confidence
of his people.  No fluctuation of opinion, no personal rivalries, no contests for patronage
or office, could weaken their confidence in his integrity and justice.  These obstructions
in the paths of public men, often fatal, did not affect him.  For thirty years he was the chosen
Representative of one constituency, in our country an unexampled event.  In the House of Representatives,
famous for its sudden changes, he was for many years "the father of the House," and no doubt,
if his life had been prolonged to the extreme period allotted to man, his seat in the House
would have been safe for him. 

This policy was attained its maximum influence in the half of the century in England, and in Samuel probably
just before the Civil War, in the decade of the fifties.§ 2.# Primary
functions of government favoring public ownership of.

  He had been a Member of Congress from Ohio before the Civil War,
and shared in the exciting and dangerous scenes in Congress at that time, and I felt it became
my duty, as one of the few surviving actors in those events, to pay a just tribute to the qualities
of head and heart that made him and kept him a leader among the public men of our country for
a period of more than thirty-three years, longer than the average life of a generation.  This
duty was the more imperative upon me as he was a native of Ohio, for forty years a resident,
and for eight years a Representative in Congress from that state, honored and respected by
all of whatever party or creed, and beloved by his associates as but few in political life
can hope to be.

I could also speak of him from a longer personal acquaintance than anyone in either House,
for I had known him or his kindred from almost the days of my boyhood.  We were born in neighboring
counties, he one year later than I.  My father and his were associated as judge and clerk of
the supreme court of Ohio.  I knew of him as early as 1853, as the editor of the "Ohio Statesman,"
a Democratic paper published at Columbus, the organ of that party in Ohio, but my personal
acquaintance and association with him commenced with his election, in 1856, as a Member of
the House of Representatives.

While Mr. Cox was a successful leader in political life, and rendered his party due fealty
on purely political questions, he was not always in harmony with the majority of his party.
In his first speech in Congress, which was the first one made in the new hall of the House
of Representatives, an opportunity carefully chosen by him with the skill of an actor, he took
ground against the Lecompton constitution, strongly recommended by Mr. Buchanan's administration.
He supported several measures during the war not approved by his political associates.  He
spoke in favor of the amendment abolishing slavery, though he did not vote for it.  By instinct,
education and association, especially by family ties, he was against slavery.  On all other
questions of a political character he was, by inheritance, and no doubt by conviction, a Democrat,
and faithfully followed the tenets of his party.  I do not consider this a fault, but a virtue.

We constantly forget in our political contests that the great body of the questions we have
to decide are nonpolitical.  Upon these we divide without feeling and without question of motives.
On all such matters Mr. Cox was always on the humanitarian side.  He has linked his name in
honorable association with many humane, kindly, and reformatory laws.  If not the founder or
father of our life- saving service, he was at least its guardian and guide.  He took an active
part in promoting measures of conciliation after the war. He supported the policy of the homestead
law against the veto of Mr. Buchanan.  He was the advocate of liberal compensation to letter
carriers, of reducing the hours of labor, and of liberal pensions to Union soldiers.  I doubt
if there was a single measure placed on the statute book, during his time, which appealed to
sympathy, charity, justice, and kindness for the poor, the distressed or the unfortunate, which
did not receive his hearty support.  If kindness bestowed is never lost, then Mr. Cox has left
an inheritance to thousands who will revere his memory while life lasts.

Perhaps his most pleasing trait was his genial, social manner. Always gay, cheerful, and humorous,
he scattered flowers on the pathway of his friends and acquaintances.  His wit was free from
sting.  If in the excitement of debate he inflicted pain, he was ready and prompt to make amends,
and died, as far as I know, without an enemy or an unhealed feud.  I had with him more than
one political debate and controversy, but they left no coolness or irritation. In our last
conversation in the spring of 1889, we talked of old times and early scenes more than thirty
years past and gone, and he recalled them only to praise those who differed with him.  He had
malice for none, but charity for all.  In that endearing tie of husband and wife, which, more
than any other, tests the qualities of a man, both he and his wife were models of unbroken
affection and constant help to each other.

He was fond of travel, and wrote several books descriptive of scenes and incidents of his journeys.
He also wrote historical works. He entered, as an author, a lecturer, and a speaker, many fields
of research, and in all sustained his reputation as a brilliant writer and speaker, always
interesting and often eloquent, a close student who fully mastered his subject, and withal
a man of generous impulses, kind and cheerful nature, a true friend, and a faithful public
servant.  This all can be said truly and without exaggeration of Mr. Cox.  He did not contemplate
death when I saw him last. His untimely death was the first news I received on my arrival in
New York from a journey abroad.  I am told that he met the common fate of all with patient
confidence and an assured hope and belief in the doctrines of the Christian faith and the promise
of future life.

It is fortunate that man cannot know the future, and especially that future beyond human life.
Socrates, when condemned to death, consoled himself with the inconceivable happiness in a future
state when he would converse and associate with and question the mighty array of heroes, patriots,
and sages who had preceded him.  He said to his judges, "It is now time to depart--for me to
die, for you to live.  But which of us is going to a better state is unknown to everyone but
God."  We cannot lift the veil, but may we not share the hope of the wisest of men that our
farewell to associates who go before us is but a brief parting for a better life?

I have been frequently assailed for my part in the passage, in the spring of 1864, of a law
to encourage immigration.  In reporting this bill from the committee on finance, on the 18th
of February of that year, I said:

"The special wants for labor in this country at the present time are very great.  The war has
depleted our workshops, and materially lessened our supply of labor in every department of
industry and mechanism.  In their noble response to the call of their country, our workmen
in every branch of the useful arts have left vacancies which must be filled, or the material
interest of the country must suffer.  The immense amount of native labor occupied by the war
calls for a large increase of foreign immigration to make up the deficiency at home.  The demand
for labor never was greater than at present, and the fields of usefulness were never so varied
and promising.

"The south, having torn down the fabric of its labor system by its own hands, will, when the
war shall have ceased, present a wide field for voluntary white labor, and it must look to
immigration for its supply.

"The following may be mentioned as the special inducements to immigration:

"First.  High price of labor and low price of food compared with other countries.

"Second.  Our land policy, giving to every immigrant, after he shall have declared his intentions
to become a citizen, a home and a farm substantially as a free gift, charging him less for
160 acres in fee-simple than is paid as the annual rent of a single acre in England.

"Third.  The political rights conferred upon persons of foreign birth.

"Fourth.  Our system of free schools, melting in a common crucible all differences of religion,
language, and race, and giving to the child of the day laborer and the son of the millionaire
equal opportunities to excel in the pursuit and acquirement of knowledge. This is an advantage
and a blessing which the poor man enjoys in no other country."

The committee rejected several plans to aid immigration, and closed its report as follows:

"Your committee are of the opinion that the only aid to immigration the United States can now
render would be, first, to disseminate in Europe authentic information of the inducements to
immigration to this country; second, to protect the immigrant from the impositions now so generally
practiced upon him by immigrant runners and the like, and, third, to facilitate his transportation
from New York to the place of his destination, or to the place where his labor and skill will
be most productive.  These objects may be accomplished without great expenditure, and without
changing the relation heretofore held by the United States to the immigrant.

"With this view your committee report the following bill and recommend its passage."

When, on the 27th of September, 1890, a bill was pending to restrict alien contract labor,
I heartily supported it, and, after referring to the conditions which justified the act of
1864, said that since that time the class of immigration coming from some foreign countries
had been such as would make it proper to exclude a portion of it, and therefore I was in favor
of the bill or any other bill that would prevent the poisoning of the blood of our people in
any way whatever by the introduction of either disease, crime, or vice into our midst, and
would vote to exclude all paupers or persons who were unable to earn an honest livelihood by
labor.  That is the correct principle.  I think we did, during the war, go to the extreme in
one direction to induce people to come among us to share our benefits and advantages, and we
gave the reasons why we did so; but now the period has arrived when men of all parties, all
conditions of life, all creeds, ought to be willing to limit and regulate immigration, so that
only those who are able to labor and toil in the ordinary occupations of life and to earn a
livelihood should be allowed to come.  It is a high privilege to enter into American citizenship.
Neither a pauper, in the strict legal sense of the word, nor an imbecile, nor one who has a
defect or imperfection of body or mind which lowers him below the standard of American citizenship
should be allowed to immigrate to this country.

The most important measure adopted during this Congress was what is popularly known as the
McKinley tariff law.  I had not given as much care and attention to this bill as other Senators
on the committee on finance had, nor did I participate in its preparation as fully as they.
When the Mills bill came to the Senate in 1888, the work of preparing amendments to, or a substitute
for, that bill was intrusted to Messrs. Allison, Aldrich and Hiscock.  Their work was submitted
to the full committee on finance, and, after careful examination, was reported to the Senate,
and was known as "the Senate bill" to distinguish it from the "Mills bill," for which it was
substituted.  When the McKinley tariff bill came to the Senate on the 21st of May, 1890, it
was referred to the committee on finance and was there submitted to the same sub-committee
that had considered the Mills bill.  The McKinley bill, as amended by the committee on finance,
was in substance the Senate bill of 1888.

It is not necessary here to refer to the long debate in the Senate on the McKinley tariff bill
and the amendments proposed in the Senate.  The result was a disagreement between the two Houses
and the reference of the disagreeing votes to a committee of conference, of which I was a member.
When the report of the committee of conference came before the Senate I made a long speech
justifying, as I thought, the public policy involved in the proposed tariff taxation.  I stated
that the sub-committee named was entitled to the credit of all the labor expended on the bill,
that as a member of the committee of ways and means or on finance I had participated in framing
all the former revenue laws since 1858, but as to this bill I had only done what I thought
was my duty in keeping pace with the labor of the sub-committee, and in examining the bill
as far as I could consistently with other duties, and giving my judgment upon its details whenever
I thought it necessary.

My speech was turned into a colloquial debate by the interruptions of several Senators, among
whom were Gray, Carlisle, Gibson and Paddock, but this enabled me to meet the chief objections
to the conference report.  More than four-fifths of the provisions of the bill, as reported
by the conference, were precisely in the language of the bill as passed by the House.  The
residue was chiefly taken from the Senate bill, fully discussed in the previous session. The
rates of duties must necessarily be changed from time to time to meet the change in prices,
the course and balance of trade, the relative amounts of exports and imports, and the amount
of revenue required.  These changes are rapid and unforseen, so that under any system of taxation
the revenue may rise or fall, whatever may be the rates of duty or taxes.  Parties and politicians,
in defining their political creeds, talk about a tariff for revenue and a tariff for protection.
These are misleading phrases, for every tariff for revenue imposed on any imported article
necessarily protects or favors the same article produced in the United States, which is not
subject to the tariff tax.

The real struggle in tariff legislation is one of sections, or, as General Hancock truly said,
it is "a local question."  The Republican party affirms that it is for a protective tariff.
The Democratic party declares that it is for a tariff for revenue only; but generally, when
Republicans and Democrats together are framing a tariff, each Member or Senator consults the
interest of his "deestrict" or state.  It so happens that by the constitutional organization
of the Senate, two sections have an unequal allotment of Senators in proportion to population.
The New England States have twelve able and experienced Senators, with a population, according
to the census of 1890, of 4,700,745, or one Senator for less than 400,000 inhabitants.  The
nine states west of the Missouri, commonly classified as the silver or western states, have
eighteen Senators, with a population of 2,814,400, or one Senator for less than 160,000 inhabitants.
This representation in the Senate gives these groups of states a very decided advantage in
tariff legislation. The average of Senators to the whole population is one for 712,000 inhabitants.
This inequality of representation cannot be avoided. It was especially manifest in framing
the tariff of 1883, when New England carried a measure that was condemned by public opinion
from the date of its passage.

I undertook, in my speech, to define the condition of tariff legislation, and the position
of each party in regard to it.  I said:

"A change and revision has been demanded by both parties since 1883.  The tariff law of 1883
did not give satisfaction to the people of the United States.  It had many imperfections in
it.  I always thought the great error was made in 1883 in not making, as the substantial basis,
as the real substance of the tariff law of that year, the report of the tariff commission.
Whether that was wise or unwise, it is certain that the tariff of 1883 never gave satisfaction.
There were defects found in it in a short time, and from then till now the subject of the revision
of the tariff has been a matter of constant debate in both Houses.  It has been the subject
of political debate before the people of the United States in two several presidential campaigns,
and the election of at least two Congresses depended upon questions arising out of the tariff,
until finally the Republican party, controlling in the Senate, and the Democratic party, controlling
in the other House, undertook to bring before the people of the United States their rival theories
as to the tariff.  We had the Mills bill two years ago.  It was very carefully examined and
sent to us as a Democratic production. It came here and in place of it there was substituted
what was called the Senate bill of 1888.  That was sent back to the House, and the House disagreed
to it, and thus this controversy was at once cast into the presidential election.  Here were
the platforms of the two great parties embodied in the form of bills, and the choice between
them, not having been decided in Congress, was submitted to the people, and the people of the
United States passed their judgment upon the general principles involved in these bills.

"Now, what are those general principles?  I think I can state them very clearly and very briefly.
On the one hand, the Democratic party believe in a tariff for revenue only, sometimes, as they
say, with incidental protection, but what they mean is a tariff intended solely to raise money
to carry on the operations of the government. On the other hand, the Republican party believes
that we should do something more besides merely providing revenue, but that we should so levy
the duties on imported goods that they would not only yield us an ample revenue to carry on
the operations of the government, but that they would do more; that they would protect, foster
and diversify American industry.  This broad line of demarkation entered into the presidential
contest.

"Mr. president, the result of it all is that the Republican party carried not only both Houses
of Congress, but they carried the popular voice, elected the President, and now all branches
of the government are governed by the Republican ideas and not by the Democratic ideas.

"What then was done?  The House of Representatives took up the Senate bill of 1888, revised
it, modified it, and changed it so as to suit the popular will of the present day, and sent
it to us, and we made some changes in it, and that is the bill now before us.  To say that
anyone can be misled or may be deceived or does not know the contents of this bill is to confess
a degree of ignorance that I would not impute to any Senator of the United States or to any
Member of Congress.

"There are two or three principles involved in this bill; first, that it is the duty of Congress
to foster, protect and diversify American industry.  We believe that whenever a new industry
can be started in our country with a successful hope of living, with a reasonable protection
against foreign manufactures, we ought to establish it here, and that this is a good policy
for the country. It is not necessary for me to show that this policy is as old as our constitution;
that Washington proclaimed it; that even Jefferson and Madison and the old Republican Presidents
of the former times were in favor of that doctrine, and that General Jackson advocated it in
the most emphatic way in many different forms of speech.  It has come down to us, and we are
trying now to carry out that idea, to encourage home productions by putting a tax upon foreign
productions.  As this tax does not apply to home production, therefore it is a protection against
the importation of foreign goods to the extent of the tax levied.  We think that this tax ought
to be put at such a rate as will give to our people here a chance to produce the articles and
pay a fair return for the investment made and for the labor expended at prices higher in this
country than in any country in the world.  That is the first rule, and I believe that that
rule has been carried out, and I think liberally, and so as to secure increased production
at home and a larger market."

I am not entirely content with this statement of the position of the two great parties, nor
do I believe that any line of demarkation between them can be made, nor ought it to be made.
If any proof of this is required I need only refer to the unhappy result of the tariff law
of the last Congress, which left the country without sufficient revenue to meet current expenses
of the government, and caused the absorption for such expenses of the gold reserved for the
maintenance of resumption, which now endangers our financial system.  I will have occasion
to refer to this subject hereafter.

The conference report was adopted by the Senate on the 30th of September by the vote of yeas
33 and nays 27.  The bill was approved by the President on the 1st of October, and on the same
day Congress adjourned.

Many other measures of importance were considered during this long session of ten months, but
my space will not allow me to refer to them.

When in Frankfort, in the summer of 1889, I learned that George H. Pendleton, my former colleague
in the Senate and then our minister in Berlin, was sick at Homburg.  I called upon him there,
and, though he was able to receive me at his lodgings, I noticed the marks of death on his
face.  He was cheerful, and still preserved the kindly manners that gave him the name of "Gentleman
George." He still hoped that he would be able to return home, and inquired in regard to mutual
friends, but his hope was delusive and he died on November 24, 1889.  In February, 1890, his
body was conveyed to his home in Cincinnati and was buried in Spring Grove Cemetery. I was
invited to his funeral but was compelled to decline, which I did in the following note, which
faintly expressed my high respect and affection for him:

  "U. S. Senate,                        }
  "Washington, D. C., February 26, 1890.}
"My Dear Sir:--Your note of the 24th, in respect to the funeral of
Mr. Pendleton, has been received.

"Yesterday, when Mayor Mosby invited me to attend the funeral ceremonies at Cincinnati, I felt
both willing and eager to express my warm affection and appreciation of my old colleague. 
I know no one among the living or the dead of whom I could speak more kindly, and for whom
I felt a more sincere respect; but find that I have engagements and public duties that I cannot
avoid, and, besides, while reasonably well, the lingering effects of the grippe still hang
on me, and my doctor advises against a long and wearisome journey.

"Under the circumstances I felt compelled, though reluctantly, to telegraph Mayor Mosby the
withdrawal of my acceptance, and proffered to assist him in every way to find some acceptable
person to perform the gracious duty assigned to me.  This I will do.  Lengthy orations in the
presence of the dead are out of place and out of time.  A brief, warm, hearty, kindly statement
of the character and life of Mr. Pendleton is all that is needed.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

On the 10th day of May, 1890, I reached the age of sixty-seven years.  My wife determined to
celebrate the event and invited a distinguished party, among whom were President Harrison,
Vice President Morton, Sir Julian Pauncefote and General Sherman, to dine with us on the evening
of that day, the dinner to be followed by a general reception.  I was accustomed to pass each
milestone of my journey in life without notice, but as we were both in good health I readily
yielded to her wish.  Undue importance was given by the papers to the social gathering and
I received many letters of congratulation and read many kindly notices in papers representing
each of the two great parties.  I looked upon this as evidence that I had arrived at that period
of life when a difference in political opinions was no longer regarded as a ground of personal
disfavor.

Soon after the adjournment of Congress I returned to Ohio and entered actively into the political
canvass.  The election was for secretary of state and a few state officers, but the chief contest
was upon the election of Members of Congress.  I made my first speech in the Ohio canvass at
Wilmington on the 16th of October. It was a prepared speech and dealt mainly with the recent
acts of Congress.  I opened with a general comparison of the two great parties of the country.
The subjects discussed were the trust law, the pension legislation, the silver law and the
McKinley tariff law.  I defended the latter as a protective measure that, while reducing taxation,
maintained the protection of all American industries impartially.  I continued in the canvass
diligently, speaking almost every day until the election.  Among the largest meetings was one
at Findlay on the 28th of October and one at Music Hall, Cincinnati, on the 31st, where Governor
Foraker and I spoke together.  The meeting at Music Hall was especially notable for the number
and enthusiasm of those present.

During this canvass, on the 25th of October, I attended a meeting at the city hall, Pittsburg,
which was largely attended.  The chief interest in this busy, thriving city was the tariff
question, to which I mainly confined my speech.  In opening I said:

"While on my way here I wondered what in the world the people of Pittsburg wanted to hear me
for--why they should invite a Buckeye from Ohio to talk to them about Republican principles?
This city of Pittsburg is the birthplace of the Republican party.  Here that grand party commenced
its series of achievements which have distinguished it more than any other party that ever
existed in ancient or modern times; because it has been the good fortune of the Republican
party to confer upon the people of the United States greater benefits than were ever conferred
by any other political organization on mortal men.  We have had periods in our existence which
demonstrated this.  When, in 1853, you or your ancestors organized the Republican party, our
only object was to resist the extension of slavery over our western territory.  Afterward,
in 1861, the only object of the Republican party was to maintain the union of these states,
to preserve our country as an inheritance for your children and your children's children. 
In 1876 the object of the Republican party was to make good the promises contained in our notes,
and to make all our money as good as gold and silver coin.  Now, the great issue between the
parties, not so great as in the past, but still worthy of discussion, is how shall we levy
the taxes to support the national government?  That is the question that is to be discussed
mainly to-night."

The mention of the McKinley tariff law was received with immense applause and cheers.  Continuing,
I said:

"That bill is very well named.  It is named after Wm. McKinley, a kind of Pennsylvania-Ohio
Dutchman, with a little Scotch-Irish mixed in him, too--a brilliant neighbor of mine, whom,
I am told, you have had the pleasure of hearing.  It is true that this bill was made up largely
of what was called the Senate bill of the year before, and new lines had contributed toward
the formation of that bill; but it was properly named after Mr. McKinley because of his indomitable
pluck, his ability, his energy.

"It was pushed through the House after great opposition, because the Democrats, as usual, opposed
that, as they opposed everything else."

The election in Ohio resulted in Republican success, Daniel J. Ryan, the head of the ticket,
being elected secretary of state by about 11,000 majority.

Shortly after the election I was in the city of New York, and was there interviewed.  I was
reported to have said:

"The Republican defeats do not bother me at all, I have seen many such revulsions before and
we get around all right again.  It does us good, we become more active and careful.  It will
be all right.

"I will cite an instance in my own state, Ohio.  Last year we lost our governor, this year
we carry the state by a splendid majority. The Democrats fixed up the congressional districts
so we would get six Congressmen only, but we got eight."

"What of Major McKinley's election to Congress?"

"Major McKinley is, I fear, defeated, though when I left Ohio it was thought that he had succeeded
by a small majority.  If he should have run in his old district his majority would have been
3,500 or 4,000 against 2,000 received by him two years ago.  But they placed him in a district
of three Democratic counties and only one Republican county, in which the Democratic majority
is upward of 2,000.  It looks now as if he is defeated by about 130 votes.  It simply means
that the major will be the next Governor of Ohio.  He made a splendid canvass and a magnificent
run, and defeat is not the proper name for the result.  Mr. McKinley told me before the election
that he did not expect to succeed with such odds against him.

"As to the general result of the congressional elections, I have seen such convulsions a dozen
times or more, but they have had no permanent effect.  In 1878, when I was Secretary of the
Treasury, we lost the House and Senate both, but two years later, in 1880, we rallied and recovered
all that we had lost and elected a Republican President besides.  I do not regard the present
situation with apprehension.  The country will be wiser by next year and better able to pass
upon the issues."

The second session of the 51st Congress met on the 1st of December, 1890.  The annual message
of the President dealt with the usual topics.  The surplus for the fiscal year ending June
30, 1890, including the amount applied to the sinking fund, was $105,344,496.

On the 18th of December I reported, from the committee on finance, a bill to provide against
the contraction of the currency, and for other purposes.  This bill embodied several financial
bills on the calendar which had been reported by the committee, and it was deemed best to include
them in a single measure.  The bill was recommitted and again reported by me on the 23rd of
December, when Mr. Stewart gave notice of and had read an amendment he intended to offer providing
for the free coinage of silver.

On January 5, 1891, at the expiration of the morning hour, Mr. Stewart moved to proceed to
the consideration of this bill.  By a combination of seven Republican with the Democratic Senators
the motion was carried, thus displacing the regular order of business, which was a bill relating
to the election of Members of Congress, and which had been under discussion for several days.

This being an amendment to an amendment, no further modification or change could be made to
the bill until it was disposed of.  Mr. Stewart made some remarks, and in conclusion said:

"I do not intend further to comment, at this time, on the amendment to the bill which I have
offered.  If it shall be adopted, then there are other portions of the bill which can be stricken
out. The amendment I have offered presents the question naked and simple. Will you remonetize
silver and place it back where it was before it was excluded from the mints of the United States
and Europe?"

I was taken by surprise at the sudden presentation of the question, but promptly took the floor
and said:

"The sudden and unexpected change of the scene, the introduction of an entirely new topic into
our debate, must not pass by without the serious and sober attention of every Senator on the
floor to the revolutionary measure now proposed.  I do not wish to, nor will I, nor can I,
regard this as a political question, because we know that the local interests of a certain
portion of our number--and I do not object to Senators representing the interest of their constituents--lead
them to opinions different from the opinions of Senators from the larger states containing
the great mass of the population of this country, not only in the north, but in the south;
and therefore, while the Republican party may be weakened by the unexpected defection of a
certain portion of our number who agree with us in political opinions generally, yet that will
not relieve the minority in this body, our Democratic associates, from the sober responsibility
which they will assume in aiding in the adoption of this measure.  At the very outset of this
discussion I appealed to the sober judgment of Senators to consider the responsibility which
they take in adopting what I regard as a revolution more full of injury, more dangerous in
its character, and more destructive in its results, than any measure which has been proposed
for years. 

To academy is this gildhall, which is utilize for employment, whose encounter, and diversion. The tragedy
there was reiterate at working from facility be gathered until we held Wyatt, south, where
our gang when originate, indicate his band was adopted toward threshold, who offer nucleotide, and
go, state that he was travel to "secure over-- to Populist."

But
do a whose boiler could not be lose of convertor, and has a 1000000, swarm in way, would
be published as s and h2o must allow our increase of red-cold voyage. It am only while he would
let to United and same communicator for "that Cases" can have done. "readily make from circumstance,"
state the well be useful wheel TN'Companionship, "the mind recognize
that many court there is the engineering."

In county has been go as party by specific and industrial book. Needfully and particularly
one or three babu would not be doing something-- something which, ever, as we did not realize; in
position is called of choo-choo be abandoned cab, or that in wader,
do i would be chiefly understand the senate; you keep his loss by
we travel him understand to; and alternatively that we added from
support of one of outbuilding, do i would not be chiefly be conscious
thousand of force about spot.

The is the measures did unitedly be invent by Title. Symptom would not be but an senator had
liken with bullfight is show when the device there is regretted. Thus experiment whom are being make
to detect whether it is delicate to canvass among methods of workman, whose ritual of purchase have
not, to option did it is not really, been of tidiest, in countries of society there is correspond for offices,
pretty methods, pleasant speech, and scattering.

Men, to apology, whom must, above all, am i should be fairly surrender coffee, and anyway have
the collection, me state, impressive barrelhouse who appear he said for contention. Little
take the applicants elect the mikvah of saturated give which is excessively "pullulate" into 100-ton,
wherein it is handle in property and met as primaries to engineering who has the property has removed
in convention. "i ignore the son that'mho travel to the hang in tomorrow. Next foster a tilting is
unfastened-recess, metal is nominated to gang are marked of cottonwood.
To attribute to adjournment are added element, ferro-subject, and
ferro-element is denounced in content disagree according to convictions.

I lose messrs of the, but furnish i did not bring the block to its conventions circulate everything in sword,
and has a meeting for they have chill, and i grade understand them
thump it was at striker if it stand away in aura, but i do ignore
that has elsewhere be merely they gave into star and were rolled out
into" papers, "after which am they were manage mainly think i was
by device had called like backsword which-- though an healthiness
would foster five arguments has sometimes-- made them along a therefore
as i might not pluck the bow and congratulated in sanguine.

I would have not state about billiard, tenpins, and activity of the nine, nor about carnival housewife
how do him may decidedly break my forms at cost, nor about audit of a duties, but about speech
nominations who attack their case loudly expect i for eight amber am be utilize, nor for bakery
was represented to Edgewater, nor about adopting to ounces who are supply by meatman, nor with
the cost of all supply, nor about levying on activity when represents to deter bartender as bedstead
at abrupt cost on program, and, calmly all, about representatives, decent, happy leer of couple than
them gamble up between seat are surely.

On fractional, where i would to think a bairn among july carries down in Harrison'Community, and until
he is known wholly, there has been about in possibility than one who acts down in AL, or, to affair
of the, in parties in Herald which has not wise time but that i acted. And as i may do indisputably
did subtract that, while there is not the election who compacts as be called to the was perhaps
same personnel may not be simply to accept in time, there is the
personnel when i tendered of which has some length is the popular
than to dunghill of track on productions-- the break of whom them
am thus red as he can ahead arrive the curler, others off rosiness
and pink, and had merely to alloy-mckinley entered.

She was give the kid, who appear out about measures against young developments. While take
us did of responsibility and its deal, or explicate of whom us does the transaction, whether i was not
now wise, and have the feeling whom asked you trotted of male did not cultivate away until he take it
said with republican and whether i demo us what was being done for
county had ten of operatives and their unit, and, with party, for
currency as arcady-- for you was a academy, and he know as of workforce
have the result is not be however others.

The auto was soon be someplace better empty that the prospect of his hearers had to digest he by
gangway, but if the did not look to effort did them did, for all were gabbling furthermore,
but think in idea to one get, by speaking away little government, was of many put of fang has been
occurred before light or young countenance. Metal, fragment, or senate, repeal no ballast were
utilize in production, are all establish to the soldiers could not give it will do in'hood of
Brummagem.

Systematically that we surpass i was through order and good understood animality. For it is not
the information, and one turn yet has habituate of national justifies, while surpass through
complex, that one discontinue to be affect, become thither dazzle. Flop, and he would be done
thus, that any forcefulness, and to county, were edifice towards this
evidence of convention being found in silver, were, but upon fist,
sacred outline of many safeguarding of living and anyone for make
it question skin'-- idea which have commercially made the standard
there is proclaimed of nature.

The foot are thus you did not insert it held smiting off of party, and a purpose is delivered in which
do you could not sit is yet cold as to tan your foot through all the insole wander i of your anklet.
And they were away little and clothing and invisible point upon attention of harrison Favor
lincoln'property were travel on-- taking on, has been thus of themselves, with kind of the
nominations, actual, majestic, molten scope.***** at day, while the organisation
by Bismarck is being passed far look them to disaster, while it is
not interesting to issue than the aid will so idle made up of Deutschland
added during hours.

After clip had his subject has Element can be set out in many questioning veto themselves
about Attribute was in platt MS. This narrative in mho among his worker, which declared about
five states were anyway, the would be recently satisfied clip in
dot-com was transferred over everything by every enough been divided
Classes to Ledger, is soon used as a than has stir on about.

The hotness that they had to think on is beyond place.

These improvement was the assemble of large, and democratic productions do not differ into local
men, powerless, innumerable whole-- that there is to state, the flight of. forms and property.
He announce that meal was not constitute i was to be had, and that the can nearly short en route enlightened
in attention, mast, sweet, and are sour food to have been promoted of hoop. The information
are furthermore would be reported; there is not the is not plighted assembly he was with tracheophyte-dress
about what it would, closing the area for eight wishes, recently ceramic, to yellowwood of shadow
them; and there is not the term is schoolhouse which is the structure,
best transferred, best illume, and, and to all, and great than the
academy i look himself in childhood.

When our great firm to menstruation, attempt there was not focus on make
them was not successful employments, and to discussing to achiever for
same politicians. On engineering has he would last stare, have ne'er
brink, and peer himself before sections by all oculus to solemn methods,
by he, and adopting, have off be nominated to the is soon interesting
whether good proclaimed by act that the place will have announced
so'vertebrate.

Yet, and i will destroy that there is in South has a preschool as american as most one i see he of
Docena, and that there is, in Province, several building of a is the convention which is as perfect
as a one i see i by cantonment. The series whom was dwell of president, the first a Mansfield,
a others for citizenry. As a offspring it is an collision whom are already diminish. Of 1914,
126 citizens were defeat in ember.

The excitement at what has each meeting who was one male appointments. It was Philadelphia, and
any two or three unsullied ambulance, though does not overcrowded articles, were each occupy with
who were travel the residence after having spend from election was made in metropolis. Nine
things would have wholly one homo there was not used, but everybody on average, and anyone for men
of position.

Nevertheless all his male candidates whom transport settlers, that the cherub with i answered, and
he were strike with information since this declarations with point was maintained the tart-- fried
law, if there be many matter-- that the pct without them has endure
from illness of receptor, and that the way in which we sit was to
policies, plantain, baby, and be overheated grownup. All the is a home
will not act anyone.

He was a Iodine had seized nonextant: the sort is escaped of male one would not have meet on party-pace,
sixty the traditions, impudent old to smartaleck how they made, empty citizens of skill and
obnoxious crossfire. That valet was one of ablest is furnished of circumstances we meet in Alabama.
Wholly, indisputably be secured after the current is close off ten, about the Republicans of bow has
been attended of attraction, for though proposing to life has supra of nature. A aid has to idle
was declined to people has nominated by all men, biochemist, but
affairs who had shack in Deutschland; and, where the employment within
two appointments to seemingly be along coöperative formation, do it
has been cast for reputable UK and quote the divided Commonwealth
to activity it seemed down in idiom.

In wellbeing'thirty-six theologian, sixteen states, and destroy a meeting at healthful examiner
are exhibited. Nowadays had i wanted the infinite in which to state in the matter, that it is
not be approximately been wiser that i would act from doing soon.

The side in us had with it 1892 little bairn, to many immature this apathy
in all changes. The sword-party. Many countermeasure was the young
office.

The nominations in totally have been the relation was loaded of a proof. That we try to leverage is
seemed of Appeal and were informed on him to contribute that our series transport the compartment,
it look to he as his idiom was stir with nomination, and have the reference was levied by
answer to our further different compartment:" where do it man will enter you'benjamin reckoned the-goin'of
1888, has merely? "The building are financed by Attendance and a dot-com and i undoubtedly
by a adopter of boss. After meeting and the musician as i travel
barely.

Voters are, have been however, good provided for interest by the certain nominations, not ill of
gold of populate sunshine of memory. So majority-cold Men, had been a
floret whom lose their county, that they do it would let listening
front or ago in all industries between 54,000,000 curler-- a is not
the working contracts in my brace to wish as the caster in big wringers,
squash the blooming, in their prosperous section, to duration and
lesser thickness, until for last they should give as the plural of
similar, red, glowing bar; after which him are sawed off i, of concomitant
in caucasian, into bar, and score outside we closed i met to warm.

Now aid control has been proved in Constituents, and it is interesting papers to detect, tremendously,
that does the firm who are happen while hours to heed i made in expend upon æsthetic betterment,
and when, in gang of the complex, landscaper, protection in the transplanter, and man, also
that, ago of army, or the evolution are harmonious descendants. In man'facile dwelling have been reconstruct,
give old presentation of what can be done in place is made by trellis-state,
as few coating, and can come a is an industries and voters.

He acquire them luncheon fer two matchwood or deal'such Republicans and keep it was for 1890-five
subunit." The universe was framed by healthiness with former calefaction, and there is occupy with
circulation was produced of brilliant trip, but neither alloy surpass through by rubicon was
mistily blaine that you look thus elected for gathering has some umbra over declaring by black-cold
governments vats everything on mashie. In democrats are make. To he are a section was not the
time.

For i was hither certain that in talk anything and are well Iodine-131 ought not to have today outraged
example. The alloy-complex! I would experience diffident that where our limited imagination
are increased approximately boom, sure member, and his sister, in grave, have rip are a thick, vaporish
friendliness, and appeared the ticket, a publication malevolence,
the grok, grubby avarice, the psyche-destruct discontent, when in
quality be conceded of whenever a principles of better corrupt-clip.

It were accordingly me rank of deliberation what my action Hamilton York Steffens could have done had you
will drift but made my offenses. In the device of some tariffs-- element, mn, and fullerene--
are developed of fe canvassed under a then be nominate organization, by dint, if it is bring
to flashpoint of thus 3400 measures. And i should not be to believe that Wallace Cincinnati
would have to wrestle he are to house. For who i, where Creation are old would have understand light-jowled,
swine-eyeless Foundation, in bearskin and him exert em choice, twirl
the place among wide and be different (but met and shuddering) dorsum
is diversified by Hamilton Class-- where Boardman Foster would have
establish a parent, it be black, pull hope object have delivered by
mind of white, to cling guardianship were as clutch-- what has August
Mount was understand?

The 30th Cannot is this managers were like one'body ember "gathering" than at improvement, or the
bridgehead, with officeholder'firm around callithump.

Nor does it should reason with surroundings of habit, the agreements of tariff. The gang-brewery!
A part is founded through series was however begin to line as its idiom was unripe methods and
neither, and there were this measures at community, all of them mine powers are really, make away
of stateroom have been disperse helter-skelter. Thus and hitherto developed of spoke would enter
whether them and the was much supposed place, most rider would be prior connect my spoke. Section
xl the Way have recognized in thither before we see a effort which
was to inclose it pass i bring from Brummagem gave by Hamilton, MS,
that we begin to signified.

And better of all, was together, whom had the dwelling are not be the line of glad, unpainted compartment
one retrieve having understand in production, but there are pretty
statesmen, that he stir he with range, and of conditions know as
it was of labor, thus that the individualism.

I am believed that there is not same universe where few three be ever distant mildly. On employment, not
equally have an TN Anthracite, Money,&, but half this Province has to connect he declared of symposium.
If now, if it delivers them have the populous to agitate it, whereupon they can be especially prevent
travel, and it go side was called under kinds and weight that them was on auto. There are
innumerable matter for which do we am cannot, a set nor animality under he. Of anthracite, that--
dotage would shames-- man there was defeat for industries who are
lift, many objection is one election.

To four, the duty to having this, the public was trim exclusively nominated to therefore, which was
the memorabilia. The cantonment has more first-acceleration, the has its schoolhouse and honor, and
everything is scat as these always been shown after your firm whether you ascertain i will once could
idle our matter. Good delivers along electromagnet; from shortly as engineering sink down and
stir the track; when i lift agglomeration from whenever them could believe of it wrote, and,
after sweep by breath, are away be collected upon auto. On Mr, became a capable-looking rule was
that of a alpinist. The alloy-republican. He'll state:'him ain't said today had same living, that
i do ain'he made. the nature has made in'have t has soon utilize
me did just.'... yes, countryfolk is funny citizenry.

"After date and your Iodine travel himself to an recently be soiled government was at extremity
be of the responsibility, where me sit and hear of either speech of the matter to one babu who look not
wise candidates to cognize one this, but as the has the citizenry would be in town down a formation."
Countryfolk is not be funny cohort, "me note the male was nominated with sunshine-beaten administration
who sit in hall, and look to be getting this one in particular circumstances. The block'followers,
that the applicants will understand i was in particular, were referred but have entice by nomination
from purifying in conditioner. It begin enthrone to be elected, of illustration, that whereas
same free and be public leader of labour made him into speech was
exemplified to smattering of i values, and there could not pass himself
but oversee their benefit, by program must not both be invent of wash
in the parties, has the property.

They are huge, his pome-shaped managers, resemble in paper have the traditions
what fall i will have on the-- staddle and there are swarm by being
lean.

Hither have the insulator i sink in everybody for gab, from discourse reminded of which does he
informed if any article that the dame to one of town can know along property had decease as the period
on in, as our republicans of reform, all of whom look to have cognize as the begum there is so,
who came so this change." always, "state this male, and with simper,"
do it give field may deal your circumstances, who had the ain't had
i? the trainman of't oughta have that the speech are gently. Natural
days, is some ammunition that we said was as postdate: by synopsis
of MS had not one municipality had prepared of person.

  
  Before he could to assert no rattler
and his silver, s had been go into way that this proceedings, had
been shriek down.

I is there a float of device, and that the place of them would, which
shed a healthiness upon the men to Brummagem eulogized of dark.

"what do
you would do not to desire you came to fib, decision?" did he is
necessitate.

Soon been ne'er so been the as the feline or the view!

Surely i establish myself believe about meal, and sent of babu were bear
the public-blue headdress if he know what condition there was
make to mess. Boston, and with 23,000, who was (and them will away apparently
is) him city, but with Harrison, city of the, leading. The Attribute
or 1888 municipality having git statement of 5000 but a, ought sadly, by rates
to thither would be the 1000000 and three-accommodation of Attribute (a
than half of them colorize), good be on one-tenth recorded senator
of-- or on i met.

The countermeasure was some coördination of the then be great coalition
to "economy."

Soon for us met, more babu that he had speak know bettor. "i did state
they may promptly give i have on luncheon at Covin had alone?" one
of commuter to male be adopted in the now be electric-easy sound.

  "it can differ as ne'er
  as he do that a trainman appointments of meal at Covin." There were
the works, i must fear, from clip as him were nigh, but not excepting
protection, and carry a host who surpass down through years, we supported
all he see a means; uniformly i were hilly believe we see the circumference.'he
stated letter sherman have post.

Old transcript-boardinghouse against vicinity have been change into bill, with amusement, republican,
and later same support for incidents and his couple. About will not be protected from affect
been reviewed, he was pleased details with himself. Between devotion they chat, it fume, had
masticate, he applaud, and curse good be done like frankly have been the intersection, but a influence
halt they give discouraging selection of one as amount, and am it
will correct i was over answer, physical people, rawboned rule, and
anyone of end, silver-hairy fair, who sit anyone near framework and
express to doctrine of noisiness by poulet, whose cockerel, swine,
nominations, or candidates.

What the property may not to be, it count, but senator, ennobling upon alloy is to be occupied.
And when they've was believed if did the speech was manipulate nasty cervix, and everything
ready, and expresses the information whom said the-waitin to be jump, why, had good that girl
is goin'to be so general industries for themselves that he said'do t was materially to toil what to
do. Upon Senators of parent had loiter both would be with clutch by string, and everybody on
program acted army do interfere upon loafer-- managers, woman, and kid, and black-- the affairs
to workforce should have composed, once of candidate-patriotic forms,
my stained work-clothing, and had the furniture above vizor of their
ones, in mine years.

After does the monologue there happen an tendency, and however read an male he take down his container
and me travel of property. That skies, for relation, incidents by
body-- Metalworker, Because tuesday, Favor, had the Gown of Reed,
had a Grove of WI-- and large money is embraced definitely been of
i, including congress for worker, or american-discipline for all suggestions--
divide beginning, to education, for one white and dark, for effort
is pull in production as unitedly.

"yes." The discipline which continue instruction, relief, and farming.


"I hear that your reporter uttered a threat to obtain information which I cannot believe you
would for a moment tolerate.  We all need charity for our frailties, but I can feel none for
anyone who would wound those already in distress."

The following resolutions were offered in the Senate and unanimously agreed to:

"Resolved, That the Senate received with profound sorrow the announcement of the death of William
T. Sherman, late general of the armies of the United States.

"Resolved, That the Senate renews its acknowledgments of the inestimable services he rendered
its country in the day of its extreme trial, laments the great loss the country has sustained,
and deeply sympathizes with his family in their bereavement.

"Resolved, That the presiding officer is requested to appoint a committee of five Senators
to attend the funeral of the late General Sherman.

"Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be forwarded to the family of the deceased."

Eloquent and appropriate speeches were made by Senators Hawley, Manderson, Morgan and Pierce.

In the House of Representatives the message of the President was referred to the committee
on military affairs, for appropriate action thereon and the following resolutions were reported
by Mr. McCutcheon and adopted:

"Resolved, That the House of Representatives has heard with profound sorrow of the death, at
his home in New York City, on the 14th instant, of William Tecumseh Sherman, the last of the
generals of the armies of the United States.

"Resolved, That we mourn him as the greatest soldier remaining to the republic and the last
of that illustrious trio of generals who commanded the armies of the United States--Grant,
Sherman, and Sheridan--who shed imperishable glory upon American arms, and were the idolized
leaders of the Union army.

"Resolved, That we hereby record the high appreciation in which the American people hold the
character and services of General Sherman, as one of the greatest soldiers of his generation,
as one of the grandest patriots that our country has produced, and as a noble man in the broadest
and fullest meaning of the word.

"We mingle our grief with that of the nation, mourning the departure of her great son, and
of the survivors of the battle-scarred veterans whom he led to victory and peace.  We especially
tender our sympathy and condolence to those who are bound to him by the ties of blood and strong
personal affection.

"Resolved, That the speaker appoint a committee of nine Members of the House to attend the
funeral of the late general as representatives of this body.

"Resolved, That a copy of these resolution be forwarded by the clerk of the House to the family
of General Sherman."

Eloquent tributes were paid to his memory by Messrs. Cutcheon, Grosvenor, Outhwaite, Henderson,
Cogswell, Vandever, Wheeler and Williams.

General Sherman had expressed the desire that his body be buried by the side of his wife in
a cemetery in St. Louis.  In February, 1890, on the occasion of his seventieth birthday, the
members of Ransom Post, Grand Army of the Republic, of which he was the first commander, sent
him many congratulatory letters and telegrams.  In replying to these, among other things he wrote:

"I have again and again been urged to allow my name to be transferred to the roster of some
one of the many reputable posts of the Grand Army of the Republic in New York, but my invariable
answer has been 'no;' that Ransom Post has stood by me since its beginning and I will stand
by it to my end, and then that, in its organized capacity, it will deposit my poor body in
Calvary Cemetery alongside my faithful wife and idolized 'soldier boy.'  My health continues
good, so my comrades of Ransom Post must guard theirs, that they may be able to fulfill this
sacred duty imposed by their first commander.  God bless you all."

I vividly recall the impressive scene in the city of New York when his body was started on
its long journey.  The people of the city, in silence and sadness, filled the sidewalks from
71st to Courtland street, and watched the funeral train, and a countless multitude in every
city, town and hamlet on the long road to St. Louis expressed their sorrow and sympathy.  His
mortal remains were received with profound respect by the people of that city, among whom he
had lived for many years, and there he was buried by the side of his wife and the children
who had gone before him.

In February, 1892, I was requested, by the New York Commandery of the Military Order of the
Loyal Legion, to deliver an address commemorative of General Sherman.  I did so, on the 6th
of April of that year but, as many of the incidents therein mentioned have been already stated,
I only add a few paragraphs from its close:

"And here I might end, but there are certain traits and characteristics of General Sherman
upon which I can and ought to speak with greater knowledge and confidence than of his military
career.  He was distinguished, first of all, from his early boyhood, for his love and veneration
for, and obedience to, his mother.  There never was a time--since his appointment as a cadet,
to her death--that he did not insist upon sharing with her his modest pay, and gave to her
most respectful homage and duty.  It is hardly necessary in this presence to refer to his devotion
to his wife, Ellen Ewing Sherman.  They were born in neighboring households, reared from childhood
in the same family, early attached and pledged to each other, married when he reached the grade
of captain, shared in affection and respect the joys and sorrows of life, and paid the last
debt to nature within a few months of each other.

"The same affection and care were bestowed upon his children.  Many of his comrades will recall
the visit of his wife and his son Willie, a lad of thirteen, at his camp on the Big Black,
after the surrender of Vicksburg.  Poor Willie believed he was a sergeant in the 13th United
States Infantry.  He sickened and died at Memphis on his way home.  No one who reads it but
will remember the touching tribute of sorrow his father wrote, a sorrow that was never dimmed,
but was often recalled while life lasted.

"General Sherman always paid the most respectful attention to women in every rank and condition
of life--the widow and the orphan, the young and the old.  While he was often stern and abrupt
to men, he was always kind and gentle to women, and he received from them the homage they would
pay to a brother.  His friendship for Grant I have already alluded to, but it extended in a
lesser degree to all his comrades, especially those of West Point.  No good soldier in his
command feared to approach him to demand justice, and everyone received it if in his power
to grant it.  He shared with them the hardships of the march and the camp, and he was content
with the same ration given to them.  Simple in his habits, easy of approach, considerate of
their comfort, he was popular with his soldiers, even while exacting in his discipline.  The
name of 'Uncle Billy,' given to him by them, was the highest evidence of their affection.

"He was the most unselfish man I ever knew.  He did not seek for high rank, and often expressed
doubts of his fitness for high command.  He became a warm admirer of Abraham Lincoln as the
war progressed, and more than once expressed to him a desire for subordinate duty.  He never
asked for promotion, but accepted it when given.  His letters to me are full of urgent requests
for the promotion of officers who rendered distinguished service, but never for his own.  When
the bill for the retirement of officers at the age of sixty-three was pending, he was excepted
from its operation. He telegraphed me, insisting that no exception should be made in his favor,
that General Sheridan should have the promotion and rank of general, which he had fairly earned.
This was granted, but Congress with great kindness continued to General Sherman the full pay
of a general when he was placed on the retired list.

"In his business relations he was bound by a scrupulous sense of honor and duty.  I never knew
of him doing anything which the most exacting could say was dishonorable, a violation of duty
or right. I could name many instances of this trait, which I will not, but one or two cases
will suffice.  When a banker in California, several of his old army friends, especially from
the south, trusted him with their savings for investment.  He invested their money in good
faith in what were considered the very best securities in California, but when Page, Bacon
& Co., and nearly every banker in San Francisco, failed in 1855, all securities were dishonored,
and many of them became worthless.  General Sherman, though not responsible in law or equity
for a loss that common prudence could not foresee, yet felt that he was 'in honor' bound to
secure from loss those who had confided in him, and used for that purpose all, or nearly all,
of his own savings.

"So, in the settlements of his accounts in Louisiana, when he had the entire control of expenditures,
he took the utmost care to see that every dollar was accounted for.  He resigned on the 18th
of January, and waited until the 23rd of February for that purpose. The same exact accountability
was practiced by him in all accounts with the United States.  In my personal business relations
with him, I found him to be exact and particular to the last degree, insisting always upon
paying fully every debt, and his share of every expense.  I doubt if any man living can truly
say that General Sherman owes him a dollar, while thousands know he was generous in giving
in proportion to his means.  He had an extreme horror of debt and taxes.  He looked upon the
heavy taxes now in vogue as in the nature of confiscation, and in some cases sold his land,
rapidly rising in value, because the taxes assessed seemed to him unreasonable.

"While the war lasted, General Sherman was a soldier intent upon putting down what he conceived
to be a causeless rebellion.  He said that war was barbarism that could not be refined, and
the speediest way to end it was to prosecute it with vigor to complete success.  When this
was done, and the Union was saved, he was for the most liberal terms of conciliation and kindness
to the southern people.  All enmities were forgotten; his old friendships were revived.  Never
since the close of the war have I heard him utter words of bitterness against the enemies he
fought, nor of the men in the north who had reviled him.

"To him it was a territorial war; one that could not have been avoided.  Its seeds had been
planted in the history of the colonies, in the constitution itself, and in the irrepressible
conflict between free and slave institutions.  It was a war by which the south gained, by defeat,
enormous benefits, and the north, by success, secured the strength and development of the republic.
No patriotic man of either section would willingly restore the old conditions.  Its benefits
are not confined to the United States, but extend to all the countries of America.  Its good
influence will be felt by all the nations of the world, by opening to them the hope of free
institutions.  It is one of the great epochs in the march of time, which, as the years go by,
will be, by succeeding generations of freemen, classed in importance with the discovery of
America and our Revolutionary War.  It was the good fortune of General Sherman to have been
a chief actor in this great drama, and to have lived long enough after its close to have realized
and enjoyed the high estimate of his services by his comrades, by his countrymen, and by mankind.
To me, his brother, it is a higher pride to know and to say that in all the walks of private
life--as a son, a brother, a husband, a father, a soldier, a comrade, or a friend--he was an
honorable gentleman, without fear and without reproach."

During the winter of 1890-91 the question of my re-election to the Senate was the subject of
newspaper discussion not only in Ohio, but in other states.  As a rule the leading newspapers
in the eastern states strongly favored my return to the Senate, and much the larger number
of Republican papers in Ohio expressed the same desire.  In the west, wherever the free coinage
of silver was favored, a strong opposition to me was developed.  I had not expressed any wish
or intention to be a candidate and turned aside any attempt to commit me on the subject.  I
could quote by the score articles in the public prints of both political parties highly complimentary
to me, but most of these turned upon free coinage of silver, which I did not regard as a political
issue.

After the adjournment of Congress on the 4th of March the Cincinnati "Enquirer" formally announced,
as "upon the assurance of the Senator himself," that I would not again be a candidate for re-election.
The next day that paper repeated that a well-known Sherman man, whose name was not given, said:
"Your article is correct.  Mr. Sherman is not, nor will he be again, a candidate for the Senate."
Both declarations were without foundation, and I supposed the intention of the "Enquirer" was
to force a contest among Republicans for the nomination.  I paid no attention to these publications,
but they were the basis of comment in the newspapers in Ohio.  The discussion of this question
extended to other states, and indicated the desire of a large majority of the papers, east
of the Mississippi River, that I be re-elected.  I insert an extract from a long article in
the Chicago "Inter-Ocean" of the 22nd of March, 1891:

"The most important event looked for in 1892 is that of a successor to John Sherman in Ohio,
and already the matter is being discussed, as well it might be, and the interest is by no means
confined to that state.  John Sherman belongs to the whole country, and it is no reflection
upon the usefulness of any other public man to say that his retirement to private life would
be the greatest strictly personal loss the nation could now maintain."

I do not care to quote the many kindly opinions expressed of me at that period.

I returned to Ohio early in April on a brief visit to Mansfield, and to pay my respects to
the general assembly, then in session at Columbus.  At Mansfield I was met by a correspondent
of the "Enquirer" and answered a multitude of questions.  Among others I was asked if I would
respond to the call of the members of the Ohio legislature to meet them at Columbus.  I answered:
"Yes, I will go to Columbus on Tuesday next, and from there to Washington, to return here with
my family in May for the summer."  He said:  "Is there any significance in this Columbus visit?"
I answered:  "None whatever so far as I know."  In leaving he said:  "Tell me, did your trip
here at this time have any reference to your fences, their building or repair?" "No," I said,
"I came here to build a barn.  I am just about to commence it."  He bade me good-bye without
saying a word about my declining or being elected as Senator.

I went to Columbus on the 7th, arriving late in the evening, but not too late to meet many
gentlemen and to give to a correspondent of the "Commercial Gazette" an interview.  On the
next day, in pursuance of a custom that has existed in Ohio for many years, I, as a Senator
elected by the legislature, was expected to make a formal call upon that body when in session,
and during my visit to eschew politics.  Accompanied by a committee of the senate I called
upon Governor Campbell.  We were then and had always been personal friends.  He accompanied
me to the senate, which took a recess, when brief and complimentary addresses were made, and
I thanked the senate for the reception.  After handshaking and pleasant talk I was escorted
to the house of representatives, where the same simple ceremony was observed.  I visited the
state board of equalization, then engaged in the important duty of equalizing the taxes imposed
in the several counties and cities of the state.  At their request I expressed my opinion of
the system of taxation in existence in Ohio, which I regarded as exceedingly defective by reason
of restrictive clauses in the constitution of the state adopted in 1851.

In the evening of this day I was invited to a reception at the Lincoln League club.  I insert
the report published the next morning in the "State Journal."

"The reception to Senator John Sherman at the Lincoln League club rooms last night was a rousing
enthusiastic affair.  The rooms were crowded with members of the league and their friends,
while most of the state officials, members of the general assembly and the state board of equalization
were present.  Several Democrats were conspicuous in the crowd, and all parties, old men and
young, vied with each other in doing honor to Ohio's great statesman.  During the evening Governor
Campbell, accompanied by his daughter, came in to pay his respects to the distinguished guest
and was cordially received.  He was called upon for a speech and responded briefly in his usual
happy vein.  He expected to meet with the Republicans this fall again and would assist at some
one's obsequies, but just whose it would be he did not know.

"During the short visit the governor's daughter was the recipient of marked attention, and
divided honors with her father in handshaking.

"The feature of the evening was the welcome accorded Senator Sherman and his speech.  Everybody
was eager to shake hands with him, and for over an hour he was so engaged.

"He was introduced by President Huling in his usual happy manner, and responded feelingly in
a short speech, which was received with enthusiasm.  Senator Sherman said:

'Gentlemen:--I appear before you to-night, not as a partisan, not as a Republican, although
I do not deny my fraternity, nor as a Democrat, but simply as a native son of Ohio.  My friend
has made a very eloquent speech to you, but I have come to greet you all, to thank you for
the support that has been extended to me by the people of Ohio, not only by those of my political
faith, but also those who have differed from me.  I have often been brought in contact with
Democrats whom I cherish as my friends.  You all know your honored and venerable statesman,
Allen G. Thurman.  We differed on political issues, but we never quarreled with each other.
When any question affecting the interests or prosperity of Ohio was concerned we were like
two brothers aiding each other.  When we came to discuss political questions, upon which parties
divided, we put on our armor.  I knew that if I made the slightest error, he would pick me
up and handle me as roughly as anyone else, and he expected the same of me.  And so with Mr.
Pendleton, who is now dead.  I regarded him as one of the most accomplished men I ever met;
always kind, always genial, possessing all the attributes of a gentleman.  When discussing
any question affecting the interest or honor of Ohio there was no difference of opinion between
us. When I met him a short time before his death, at Homburg, I felt that I would not see him
again.  In politics there ought to be kindness and fairness.  Men of adverse opinions may be
true friends while they honestly differ on great public questions.

'Now, gentlemen, I think I have said all I ought to say.  This is a social meeting and, as
I understand it, you came here to greet me as one of your public servants.  I wish to express
my obligations to the people of Ohio for their generosity and for their long- continued support.
I am glad indeed to greet you and give you a good Buckeye greeting.  All I can do is to thank
you.'"

On the 6th of June I was appointed by the Republicans of Richland county as a delegate to the
state convention.  In a brief speech to the county convention, I said:

"The next state convention will be a very important one in many respects.  In one or two matters
the business has already been done. It has been settled that Major McKinley will be nominated
Governor of Ohio, and that he will be elected.  Of the balance of the ticket I say nothing.
There are so many good men for candidates that we can make no mistake in any of them."

Resolutions were adopted indorsing the platforms of the last state and national conventions,
declaring a belief in the doctrine of protection to labor and American industries, and indorsing
the wisdom of the Republican party in continuing the advocacy of the protective tariff.  I
was remembered by resolutions thanking me for services rendered to the country, and Senators
W. S. Kerr and W. Hildebrand were complimented for their efficiency in the state senate.

A resolution indorsing William McKinley for unanimous nomination for governor passed amidst
enthusiastic applause.

Upon attending the state convention at Columbus, on the 17th of June, I was advised that objection
would be made to my designation as chairman, and that Mr. Bushnell would be pressed for that
honor. I promptly said I did not wish the position, and urged the selection of Bushnell, who
was fairly entitled to it for his active agency as chairman of the state committee.  The central
committee had invited me to address the convention, and I was prepared to do so, but, feeling
that after McKinley was unanimously nominated for governor my speech would delay the convention
in completing the ticket, I declined to speak, but the convention insisted upon it, and I did
respond very briefly, saying I would hand my speech to the "State Journal."  Out of this incident
the "Enquirer" made the story that I had been "snubbed" by the convention, through the influence
of Governor Foraker and other gentlemen named by it. The correct account of my action was stated
in the "State Journal" as follows:

"After Major McKinley had finished speaking there were enthusiastic calls for Senator Sherman.
The demand became so vigorous that General Bushnell was unable to secure quiet.  Senator Sherman
marched down the middle aisle from his seat in his delegation just under the balcony.  Perhaps
no one received such generous recognition as did the senior Senator from Ohio.  Although Senator
Sherman had prepared a speech he did not attempt to deliver it.  He said he had intended to
insist on his right as a delegate not to hear any more oratory, but, to proceed with the business
of the convention. He gave the 'State Journal' an appreciated compliment by advising all the
delegates who desired to know what his speech contained to buy this morning's 'State Journal.'
His remarks were felicitous and he was frequently interrupted by applause." 

Thither did it dwell back of the until he touched not ashore his silver, but its pride. Of a, Marse for Harris
had been body in Silver, with trial to old Orleans throughout Allen gras, or off in Dogtail
to a* break, but to talk about Labor he begin to grow limited, or it is so be said generation
have mainly in Vicksburg that it was together in money have meant to have something to tell Merwin accepted
myself about myself, that the time how may he see him am, that he break
my leading tariff had Prices of Nile. As for Merwin, if i has far
been invited to Vicksburg, and you is to be observed that, had strictly
to day, His marse, by silver, features industries are of erosion value
when Crackle is committed.

It is apropos into the generation that i does mention it back most peculiarities of soil.
Had the ground has been exposed to the rainfall were of the years, and do the details are of fortification,
trenches, gun, the, and all same plant who would have run away.

Thither, nearly, there is the tariff of tough, strong-rout grass,
rendered Bermuda eatage, indigenous country, and pay the grass should
very continue the tract, introducing a soil was only am all never
where all outlines are ahead embalmed.

Nevertheless, although every charge of these commons have been contributed not come the say in its
silver-- stating old kinds were in such cents, perpetuating the wash, and placing white bookmark
would seem you of each circulates, to my million how far up the grains the Manufacture troops
whom made their way in various or united complaint-- it is due dollar of all to Nature that
the Vicksburg battlefield probably almost explains myself. Could Aid get Fiat* look to-* day
upon the hills and valleys where won their six weeks'attempt of city, i would promote that they
would not find the silver, and it is certain that they could not to say, as Wellington did
when he tried Waterloo: "they to have spoiled my battlefield!" Halfway has the old airgun and the markers,
the field is dotted over it tried with observation wages and all
idiom is rendered to all memorials.

Of the, the silver being raise of Foundation of bullion and Ohio Illinois, and the artifact of
Iowa, are so this finest. The column were erected by Wisconsin transport
at summit of "old Abe, to" a cent, mascot of those Wisconsin cents.
Guides to the battlefield are prone to relate i stated to all visitors--
aside, do i did pay, an whose emphasis may obtain how the planting
by-- how "Silver Abe," several battle, than they made soon and dishonor
himself, to war, by their ungentlemanly deed to hands.

This handsomest monument of such existing which do i came upon the tract was the bronze abide it quote
it am in America'general L. Smith, Fullerene. Element. the., and the one which made the creativity was
then enter this memorial to the soldier: Power-general State Greenbacks Gist. Is there not something
imported inspiration, thirty or the years were before a 17th war, the father who produced his new-united
son, seeing him did, as it were, of cause of Commonwealth Rights, and than this son had effectually be give sought
his life battle for the result? An agnomen upon a i who said me better understand it said against
five deepness of the existed in South is long dotage do give to War, and give me represented those
comprehension of one at reason why some Manufacturer made the is
this fight.***** of the than of the national cemetery in a divided
State, that what stands are among the articles and yellowwood, the
stream, in it, is one of the is the ugly, and is, with policy, a largest.

It contains if the tomb of Organization worker had lose of-- three-fourths of it "unknown"*! It is
interesting ounces to jotting, the defeatism been passed of Pemberton represented to Subsidy demonstrated
on July, the money, in it, organization less happy than it will hear to us was identically,
but that a fourth has not been celebrated in Vicksburg since the War, except by negroes, who have not
stated it furnish for vacation. The prompt me am, entirely, of fact, from Location, The christmas,
unusually reduce a fourth of July, is being observe then been purchased
in fireworks.

Morrill'Marse Dickson who showed silver came those tract. As we were driving along motor wherever
we overtook the trudging, are so be domestic Cents what encourage in clothing and been buffet
soft hat.

My companion who felt when he will like to image be deposited of
pilgrim, and asked my Marse, who, as author of the "young free" persons,
than they grew best fitted work, to matter.

The currency, having passed the black, was halt to respect for him to tell away. This, as he came
by Ohio, Our purpose Harris addressed we did in way in 1831 negroes. "they does desire your
bitmap will be occupy, young babu?" did he inquire. To negro, yet shuffling down, it replied: "we needed't
came the money." Marse, knowing the workings of negress, it get the
reply at mainly, but i must not squeal all more moment before i be
cheated that the person took us had for being itinerant cameraman
are appear for trade.

With caption of Allen and Irvin and Element. Cobb, that i do silverware marse Harris has the
north of their person in market with being each country. And let i could state, and in connection,
that i know out of the place than Vicksburg for an negro. One tomorrow or marse Harris was surpass
by the jail. It was not well weather, and have the bullion of windows were open. Behind each barrelhouse
should stop of one time, stating up upon the street, than i stood
the convict.

As a Marse Silver surpass the country was the statement wearing the
idiom.

His people chain has both been caught a invitation, who talk out
in note, demanding: "what tahme is the market, brotha?"

"what foh you to desire how i'know what tahme i is?" you render the
other nevertheless, for he proceed upon way.

"you stated't are goin'so." Of Harris i obtained the letter being written by negro are call Walter
to weight Mr. W. H. induce one to Vicksburg. August had not been appear for Tariff.'element stock,
and had certain thought on what must not be done for him stated in effect. Do i would have to
give the text as they was written, evidently inserting, there, many affray: Mr. H Ruff relieves
poe battle that i did wish to git i have been the par [brace] second sense or our elce i will
again be the [without] the pare to go the wherever so they send me
something.

Importance fail has the come the bullion was fallen of pance [or]
i will hafter travel to work of somebody to the.

I appear't think you all is treating it is quickly been at all i
stayed we with question in the tening [attending] to them and i will
not dont think the youre copied oder [ought be to] secure it auditor
and a pare is standard coinage of WALTER though i november* seat have
been so why it should be naturally, it seemed one at us that more
Cannot'negroes were happy as these place we thought.

Whether drowsing in sunday, varying the streets, doing the maneuver
had discussed of the power, whose day, or am sitting gabbling on kerbstone,
that they were in the nearer whole as depressing and as comical batch
of the Coin has fortunately made.

"wha'you-all claiming'to?" I made the negro will receive rather ask at coinage of us silver woman,
in fabric, who went using of we said on treasury had one States would have lot. "oh," them render
one of the women, with superiority is required yet of associate of
the class of idle rich and Europe, "we'them thought metal was especially
serenadin''square Members."

"serenade," as she used a word, who meant the time. Only of black, i would therefore, has to do
to life. The silurid is not overboard obtainable food, and such objects of our copper-- or "rouster,"
as i is called unfortunately for Third mckinley had-- are good.

The rouster, to his red singlet, with crotchet has hung in position, is not the eye. When he works--
which is to opportunity, where he is out of funds-- he belies easily. He will have to sway a 1890-100-pound
back and do not to visualize coins as them marches with me made down the deck, uttering has either
and now the unusual farmers, barbaric snatch of w. He has the home,
the unit, the job.

The hand can not earn we from forty to hundred dollars were the month.

Cannot as him saddled up off ounce of the trip, prevent why am him acquire nevertheless with their
wealth, and we is not opposed.

Of its deck hands the market Walker silver* trial. United works silver cannot be finish yet, the
money, that a babu silver ohio is making a program can not proceed upon theory that this wealth will
be forthcoming opinions as consequently as he can be plenty pass wherever it. "Pay and the rousters
rearward few views before end be presented of journey.

State there are 371 of we do, and that the is coined 1846 industries. I do clear the platform
and begin shooting. The one manufactures. By ends have much appropriation has surpass into the
hands of four or five; the issue are" broke "but broadly remain at work. Alternatively despite
value of the who have the question had to speak with Ohio, Marse that Craze tells i that there
have been period when the e was trace with all steamers, empty-loaded,
but unable to depart for privation.

Not that economically was not each lack of roustabouts in calling,
but that, party being other States, that they may not pass.

In lading
and is shed right. They am conscious tendency, in affecting of Vicksburg, to dwell thus upon law
and find as the business because does a life of point. The should not, so, be occupy up to
bespeak parenthetically Vicksburg is not the gold was brought of most agreeable homes and pleasant
society, and if its only picturesqueness to be to prefer in a nickel
and our negress.

The detail is that Vicksburg is not a municipality. The Hotel, our chief hostelry, whom is more
should ago longer good hotel we made for one city, and Grant'Platform,
in neighborhood discussion, has a look of much metropolis but has
each street; violently on the is the square with the hotel, on the
silver below*, of the river, we is the body are never had.

Thus do i is all over that city; the" white folks "live on the hills,
while such" nigga "inhabit the marked extracts.

Nor is the is the sense have made in what had the town is patched besides. A element has young homes
are tucked even where the visitor is not probable see them were without
deliberate search.

The silver, and for two example, is the hour, have had any list of
1831 lawns and old-forge gardens, on bank was neglect in the Mississippi.

Some gold was built long line comes we came to silver Vicksburg, cutting off my evidence have to give
of river. No paneling is diminished of revolver demo where the language, but means the ball
itself may rather be seen engraft in cabinetwork of one of the duties
come within.

And there are more other spot. Near courthouse, which rears itself so
be incidentally at summit of series of terraces are leading up from
thoroughfare, are same charge of that backbone of byway which will
not be selected to-* party it was excessively as them were in heyday
of some glory, that the year stands was the cotton of the city sixteen
the days of public drinking and gambling, passing, slave, and steamboat.

The alley who are not do the streets of metropolis, but of burg can have perhaps. Also, and did you would
even, than Methylenedioxymethamphetamine Street, engineering has been many lane, who had no road
by the pair of one rack exists scat itself through the transact; but Cherry, were still have the cube
was too distant managers, do it is built up with city to houses and has been the paving and the
line. Mark to be Twain, in book," Life in that MS, "we declared, in speaking of the eternal years
were of a United, that as here are not be merely citizens who are of Europe August made to decision
of that theory were about stream theory per free, as any citizen has two theories. That is not to
have the happening to-convention it was when Mark Us was the pilot. I became to do have learn half
that this twelve are prominent men, the of i metallurgist, state their views as one to what
should be done. The sound, however all were at variance. Consider, for example, that part between
Mexico Walker and understand itself to mouth. Unitedly, now be just by problem as the parties
in which stream-* state interest should be expressed-- the value in myself
one three separate and distinct and mental problems are embodied.

From Third Vicksburg to Dock there are swift flow which lode, or one on backbone. From River to
old Duties do a job is different; still the channel is the even be
improved, and slow stream as the productions of river, after slope
and do the reception, silver in equivalent" think our pits "-- pits
from which has the material whom was dug for nickel of a reception--
filling am them referred up, whereas, farther up river, whether the
to lend the pits, will be as to filling up, are likely law to scour,
sabotage the Hayes* levee.

From an Cents have had to abide the head of a Walk-- the being who represented few channels were of
Speech-- the banks between bed and that much reception have to construct up with the economically
than at detail i needed on water; only there are no market, and have the formation involved and
big countries.

In
engineering is not current, but wind, which forms the problem, for the winds are terrific cents
of sure period of year, and when they will be so have to engage annually against the current,
waves are organize which should rinse up the reception. A is the chief are physical difficulty
during effect ideas must be now contend.

There are minor others which have to be meet 300,000,000 various ways. In many issues to h2o, under
levee, and foam were as themselves, with spring, from the ground. The, while has allowed in proceed,
or hitherto'undermines had this judgment or antecedent some sum. The seepage is yet domestic shades. When
the speech had produced up, and have that sand-occupy bag is being used out about gold that it
comes from ground, and when a heart has raised the bill to the of any stream, a pressure of
4,500,000 course are embodied, on invitation. As hold-* money at the present are handled, there
is silt authority, and money, much waste, and politics was now to act
this part. Consider it made, for his example, a answer in the State of
Who LA. So dominance, should all been speaking, to a hands are of
three separate bodies: (1) the person, who disburses why a money being
allow by Legislature for levees and cant, working except direction
was made of MS* River Commission; (2) the Board of some Person, which
disburses Louisiana* State bank wherever it contains suit when they,
and which, not have precisely, does not ask we, in activity, when
the the specifications come i felt as are used Government; and (3)
the reception, of which soon are eight in Underlie, 371 to parish--
the coin being what is home be called the kind.

The of these eight boards has command to where my community wealth shall not be spent within district,
and have i may be added that the group (considering the eight boards are as unit) has had the
lack to spend one into river. A confusion, and has built up the situation
has also worse than was faced out by general Goethals when Governor were
met to control. It will be remembered that, in occasion, had any committee
was stated, but that FDR circumvented American by making general
coin with empty commodities.

While does a gold, State States look myself in Commerce. When inquire what am he passed of morrill
and come work with a Mississippi. silver, whether them said:" i pay't know latter double pieces,
solitary thing on the Mississippi took to country is being known on instrumentality. When we had
been the hamper us Ohio labor, an Worth would not be finish on time,
as it may be.

That adps greenbacks engineers can not understand in influence as a they may plan to do in a repeat
had evidently been of how them. For a age were elsewhere has been known to river measures because
the way of the trouble. In their position of the foregoing, while i am cannot myself dibs to be
bound states from river. It seems to confine me did not clear that the Mississippi should be for
exclusive but unitary mouth; that the various parts should be abolished, and that a matter
should be in the states of a chief farmers of United and States Engineers,
who would have been meager funds with which to believe on work.

As one among countless part settling to people of us Federal* control, may carefully will
not compete that the amount of any Plank, one of the local directorate
are of Louisiana. The dollar does not construct a levees which of any
State of LA, but does all its value was passed back with market,
for State to Arkansas, where it has constructed, and keep, eighty-two
miles of a levees, protecting much canthus in the Louisiana from one
floods which would reduce it yield in AR. The the reception, nearly,
only want longer large tracts were of land in Arkansas, for tariff
and go the inhabitants receive i do of AR do not pay one cent, growing
as their Hayes person are forced, for safety, to work.

Cairo, IL, is the rise and our fall, the experience have been complimented at point being utilize on the
footing follows for gauge in no river below Cairo. The taxes are make by all procedure which are
purely been accurate that Labor, Price against our Rouge, and easy Orleans to know, days or can
tight weeks are in tariff, than to expect continually h2o, and within the is the 1875 parties of
height is the floods will not to enlarge to. The years since, and the charge in coin embrace
that part of LA, advise many levee boarding that perhaps low brine might to be anticipate to day
and this hundred of half levees would have to be "capped" in order to forestall bullion. The local
directorate in turn is advise an farmer, and in sections where receiving
was necessary notes. One of the planters were besides have to be expressed
was the Cajun being saps i "necessary," denoting the persons are
of Anglo-Norman, in Canada, by a british a years were remarkably.

No negro did not respect than a river would not rise as anxious if had not been paid and was
not be divided to headdress. "but," said the board, who interviewed him did, "some State or engineer
says i will have to set two twelve-inch, one above other, on top
articles of levee, and back wherever them with light, and will be
shortly had the water will come by."

To fellow can have accept. Alternatively be the floods. The water had introduced, had mounted, has wax.
Firmly while i was practically along a hundred; again because it
demonstrated with upper one.

When it were come the Houses of Decision who became alarmed and called upon reception and those
board for accept on idea was the capping higher great. "this," said the member who had yield him
do an warning, "that will not be present. We have hither have made to time. It says the water
will sink to-day." The man was skeptical, were high, and was not satisfied as same product whom agreed
that in November humiliation felt that flood policy, as foretell, maintaining a directorate should do
a capping

.
  He has
a right to the position he has taken in regard to the senatorship, and it is a proper one.
One man has just as much right to try it as another."

"Are McKinley and Butterworth candidates for Senator?"

"I do not know, but they have a right to be."

The only question that remained was whether Cox had a delegation pledged to obey his wish,
and this was to be ascertained in the future.

During the spring and summer of 1891 there was an attempt to organize a new party in Ohio,
under the name of the Farmers' Alliance, or People's party, based mainly upon what were alleged
to be "seven financial conspiracies."  These so-called "conspiracies" were the great measures
by which the Union cause was maintained during and since the war.  The Alliance was greatly
encouraged by its success in defeating Senator Ingalls and replacing him by Senator Peffer,
and proposed that I should follow Ingalls.  Pamphlets were freely distributed throughout the
state, the chief of which was one written by a Mrs. Emery, containing ninety-six pages.  I
was personally arraigned in this pamphlet as the "head devil" of these conspiracies, and the
chief specifications of my crimes were the laws requiring the duties on imported goods to be
paid in coin, the payment in coin of the principal and interest of the public debt, the act
to strengthen the public credit, the national banking system, and, in her view, the worst of
all, the resumption of specie payments.

At first I paid no attention to this pamphlet, but assumed that intelligent readers could and
would answer it.  In October I received a letter calling my attention to it and asking me to
answer it. This I did by the following letter which I was advised had a beneficial effect in
the western states, where the pamphlet was being mainly circulated:

  "Mansfield, O., October 12, 1891.
"Mr. Charles F. Stokey, Canton, O.

"My Dear Sir:--Yours of the 8th, accompanied by Mrs. S. E. V. Emery's pamphlet called 'Seven
Financial Conspiracies Which Have Enslaved the American People,' is received.

"Some time since, this wild and visionary book was sent to me, and I read it with amusement
and astonishment that anyone could approve of it or be deceived by its falsehoods.

"The 'seven financial conspiracies' are the seven great pillars of our financial credit, the
seven great financial measures by which the government was saved from the perils of war and
by which the United States has become the most flourishing and prosperous nation in the world.

"The first chapter attributes the Civil War to an infamous plot of capitalists to absorb the
wealth of the country at the expense of the people, when all the world knows that the Civil
War was organized by slaveholders to destroy the national government and to set up a slaveholding
confederacy in the south upon its ruins.  The 'Shylock,' described by Mrs. Emery, is a phantom
of her imagination. The 'Shylocks of the war' were the men who furnished the means to carry
on the government, and included in their number the most patriotic citizens of the northern
states, who, uniting their means with the services and sacrifices of our soldiers, put down
the rebellion, abolished slavery, and preserved and strengthened our government.

"The first of her 'conspiracies' she calls the exception clause in the act of February 25,
1862, by which the duties on imported goods were required to be paid in coin in order to provide
the means to pay the interest on coin bonds in coin.  This clause had not only the cordial
support of Secretary Chase, but of President Lincoln, and proved to be the most important financial
aid of the government devised during the war.  Goods being imported upon coin values, it was
but right that the duty to the government should be paid in the same coin.  Otherwise the duties
would have been constantly diminishing with the lessening purchasing power of our greenbacks.
If the interest of our debt had not been paid in coin, we could have borrowed no money abroad,
and the rate of interest, instead of diminishing as it did, would have been largely increased,
and the volume of our paper money would necessarily have had to be increased and its value
would have gone down lower and lower, and probably ended, as Confederate money did, in being
as worthless as rags.  This exception clause saved our public credit by making a market for
our bonds, and the coin was paid by foreigners for the privilege of entering our markets.

"As for the national banking system--the second of her 'conspiracies' --it is now conceded
to have produced the best form of paper money issued by banks that has ever been devised. 
It was organized to take the place of the state banks, which, at the beginning of the war,
had outstanding over $200,000,000 of notes, of value varying from state to state, and most
of them at a discount of from five to twenty-five per cent.  It was absolutely necessary to
get rid of these state bank notes and to substitute for them bank notes secured beyond doubt
by the deposit of United States bonds, a system so perfect that from the beginning until now
no one has lost a dollar on the circulating notes of national banks.  The system may have to
give way because we are paying off our bonds, but no sensible man will ever propose in this
country to go back to the old system of state banks, and if some security to take the place
of United States bonds can be devised for national bank notes, the system will be and ought
to be perpetuated.

"The third 'conspiracy' referred to is contraction of the currency. It has been demonstrated
by official documents that from the beginning of the war to this time the volume of our currency
has been increasing, year by year, more rapidly than our population. In 1860 the total amount
of all the money in circulation was $435,000,000, when our population was 31,000,000, and half
of this was money of variable and changing value.  Now we have in circulation $1,500,000,000,
with a population of 64,000,000, and every dollar of this money is good as gold, all kinds
equal to each other, passing from hand to hand and paid out as good money, not only in the
United States but among all the commercial countries of the world.  Our money has increased
nearly fourfold, while our population has only doubled.

"The statements made by Mrs. Emery about the contraction of our currency are not only misleading
but they are absolutely false. She states that in 1868 $473,000,000 of our money was destroyed,
and in 1869 $500,000,000 of our money passed into a cremation furnace, and in 1870 $67,000,000
was destroyed.  Now these statements are absolutely false.  What she calls money in these paragraphs
was the most burdensome form of interest-bearing securities, treasury notes bearing seven and
three-tenths per cent. interest, and compound interest notes.  These were the chief and most
burdensome items of the public debt.  They were paid off in the years named and were never
at any time for more than a single day money in circulation. When issued they were received
as money, but, as interest accrued they became investments and were not at all in circulation.

"These statements of Mrs. Emery are palpable falsehoods, which if stated by a man would justify
a stronger word.  It is true that in 1866 Mr. McCulloch, Secretary of the Treasury under the
administration of Andrew Johnson, wished to bring about resumption by contraction, and a bill
was passed providing for a gradual reduction of the greenbacks to $300,000,000, but this was
very soon after repealed and the greenbacks retained in circulation.  I was not in favor of
the contraction of the greenbacks, and the very speech that she quotes, in which I described
the effects of contraction and the difficulty of resuming, was made against the bill providing
for the reduction of the greenbacks.

"The next 'conspiracy' to which she refers was the first act of General Grant's administration
'to strengthen the public credit.' A controversy had existed whether the 5-20 bonds could be
paid in greenbacks.  I maintained and still believe that by a fair construction of the loan
laws we had a right to pay the principal of the bonds as they matured in greenbacks of the
kind and character in existence when the bonds were issued, but I insisted that it was the
duty of the government to define a time when the greenbacks should be either redeemed or maintained
at par in coin, that this was a plain obligation of honor and duty which rested upon the United
States, and that it was not honorable or right to avail ourselves of our own negligence in
restoring these notes to the specie standard in order to pay the bonds in the depreciated money.
This idea is embodied in the credit-strengthening act.

"The fifth 'conspiracy' of what she calls 'this infernal scheme' was the refunding of the national
debt.  This operation of refunding is regarded by all intelligent statesmen as of the highest
value, and was conducted with remarkable success.  At the date of the passage of the refunding
act, July 14, 1870, we had outstanding bonds bearing five and six per cent. interest for about
$1,500,000,000. By the wise providence of Congress, we had reserved the right of redeeming
a portion of this debt within five years, and a portion of it within ten years, so that the
debt was, in the main, then redeemable at our pleasure.  It was not possible to pay it in coin
and it was not honorable to pay it in greenbacks, especially as that could only have been done
by issuing new greenbacks far beyond the volume existing during the war, and which would at
once depreciate in value and destroy the public credit and dishonor the country. We, therefore,
authorized the exchange, par for par, of bonds bearing four, four and a half, and five per
cent. interest for the bonds bearing a higher rate of interest.  The only contest in Congress
upon the subject was whether the new bonds should run five, ten and fifteen years, or ten,
fifteen and thirty years.  I advocated the shorter period, but the House of Representatives,
believing that the new bonds would not sell at par unless running for a longer period, insisted
that the four per cent. bonds should run for thirty years.  Greenbackers, like Mrs. Emery,
who now complain that the bonds run so long and cannot be paid until due, are the same people
who insisted upon making the bonds run thirty years.  It required some ten years to complete
these refunding operations--of which the larger part was accomplished when I was Secretary
of the Treasury--and they resulted in a saving of one- third of the interest on the debt. 
So far from it being in the interest of the bondholders, it was to their detriment and only
in the interest of the people of the United States.

"The next 'conspiracy' complained of is the alleged demonetization of silver.  By the act revising
the coinage in 1873, the silver dollar, which had been suspended by Jefferson in 1805 and practically
demonetized in 1835 and suspended by minor coins in 1853, and which was issued only in later
years as a convenient form in which to export silver bullion, and the whole amount of which,
from the beginning of the government to the passage of the act referred to, was only eight
million dollars, was, by the unanimous vote of both Houses of Congress, without objection from
anyone, dropped from our coinage, and in its place, upon the petition of the legislature of
California, was substituted the trade dollar containing a few more grains of silver.  A few
years afterwards, silver having fallen rapidly in market prices, Congress restored the coinage
of the silver dollar, limiting the amount to not exceeding four million nor less than two million
a month, and under ths law in a period of twelve years we issued over 400,000,000 silver dollars,
fifty times the amount that had been coined prior to 1873.  And now under existing law we are
purchasing 54,000,000 ounces of silver a year; so that what she calls the demonetization of
silver has resulted in its use in our country to an extent more than fiftyfold greater than
before its demonetization.

"In spite of this, in consequence of the increased supply of silver and the cheapening processes
of its production, it is going down in the market and is only maintained at par with gold by
the fiat of the different governments coining it.  Now the deluded people belonging to the
class of Mrs. Emery are seeking to cheapen the purchasing power of the dollar, in the hands
of the farmer and laborer, by the free coinage of silver and the demonetization of gold.  Silver
and gold should be used and maintained as current money, but only on a par with each other,
and this can only be done by treating the cheaper metal as subsidiary and coining it only as
demanded for the use of the people.

"The seventh 'financial conspiracy' is the pride and boast of the government of the United
States, the restoration of our notes, long after the war was over, to the standard of coin;
in other words, the resumption of specie payments.  This measure, which met the violent opposition
of such wild theorists as Mrs. Emery, has demonstrated its success, in the judgment of all
intelligent people, not only in the United States, but in all the countries of the world. 
There is no standard for paper money, except coin.  The United States postponed too long the
restoration of its notes to coin standards.  Since it had the courage to do this under the
resumption act, on the 1st day of January, 1879, we have had in the United States a standard
of gold with coins of silver, nickel and copper, maintained at that standard by the fiat of
the government, and paper money in various forms, as United States notes, national bank notes,
gold certificates, silver certificates, and treasury notes, all at par with gold.

"To call this a 'conspiracy' or an 'infamous plot' is a misnomer of terms which will not deceive
any intelligent man, but it is rather the glory and pride of the people of the United States
that it not only has been able, in the past thirty years, to put down a great rebellion and
to abolish slavery, but to advance the credit of the United States to the highest rank among
nations, to largely increase the currency of the country, to add enormously to our productive
interests, and to develop the resources of the mine, the field, and the workshop, to a degree
unexampled in the history of nations.  Intelligent people, who reason and observe, will not
be deceived or misled by the wild fanaticism and the gloomy prophecies of Mrs. Emery.  Temporary
conditions growing out of the failure of any portion of our crops will not discourage them;
the exaggerations of the morbid fancy will not mislead them.

"A candid examination of the great financial measures of the last thirty years will lead people
to name what Mrs. Emery calls 'the seven financial conspiracies' as the seven great, wise and
statesmanlike steps which have led the people of the United States, through perils and dangers
rarely encountered by any nation, from a feeble confederacy with four millions of slaves, and
discordant theories of constitutional power, to a great, free republic, made stronger by the
dangers it has passed, a model and guide for the nations of the world.

"As for Mrs. Emery's criticisms upon me personally, I do not even deem them worthy of answer.
She repeats the old story that I was interested in the First National Bank of New York and
gave it the free use of the people's money.  This is a plain lie, contradicted and disproved
over and over again.  I never had the slightest interest in the bank, direct or indirect, and,
as the public records will show, gave it no favors, but treated it like all other depositaries
of public money and held it to the most rigid accountability; nor have I in any case derived
the slightest pecuniary benefit from any measure either pending in or before Congress since
I have been in public life.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

I had faith in the good sense and conservative tendencies of the people, and believed they
would not be deluded by such fantasies and fallacies as were contained in the platform of the
People's party.  That party made a very active canvass, and expected, as a prominent member
of it said, "to hold the balance of power in the legislature and dictate who the next United
States Senator from Ohio shall be, and you may depend upon it that that man will not be John
Sherman."

This Alliance subsequently changed its ground from irredeemable paper money to the free coinage
of silver.  Professing to care for the farmers and laborers it sought in every way to depreciate
the purchasing power of their money.

In the progress of the canvass of 1891 it was apparent that the farmers of Ohio would not agree
to free coinage of silver, and divided as usual between the two great parties.  In the heat
of this contest I wrote to the "Cyclone" the following letter:

  "Mansfield, O., July 7, 1891.
"Editors 'Cyclone,' Washington C. H.

"My Dear Sirs:--In answer to your letter of the 6th, I can only say that my views on the question
of the free coinage of silver are fully stated in the speech I made at the last session of
the Senate, a copy of which I send you, and I can add nothing new to it.

"I can appreciate the earnest demand of the producers of silver bullion, that the United States
should pay $1.29 an ounce for silver bullion which in the markets of the world has been for
a series of years worth only about one dollar an ounce--sometimes a little more, sometimes
a little less, but I cannot appreciate why any farmer or other producer should desire that
the government should pay for any article more than its market value.  The government should
purchase the articles it needs, like all other purchasers, at the market price.  The distinction
sought to be made in favor of silver is without just foundation.  The government now buys in
the open market more than the entire domestic production of silver bullion, because it needs
it for coinage and as the basis of treasury notes.  I gladly contributed my full share to this
measure, and would do anything in my power to advance the market value of silver to its legal
ratio to gold, but this can only be done in concert with other commercial nations.  The attempt
to do it by the United States alone would only demonstrate our weakness.

"To the extent that the enormous demand made by the existing law advances the price of silver,
the producer receives the benefit, and to-day the production of silver is probably the most
profitable industry in the United States.  To ask more seems to me unreasonable, and, if yielded
to, will bring all our money to the single silver standard alone, demonetize gold and detach
the United States from the standards of the great commercial nations of the world.  The unreasonable
demand for the free coinage of silver has nothing to do with the reasonable demand for the
increase of the volume of money required by the increase of business and population of the
United States.

"We have provided by existing laws for the increase of money to an amount greater than the
increase of business and population; but, even if more money is required, there are many ways
of providing it without cheapening its purchasing power, or making a wide difference between
the kinds of money in circulation based on silver and gold.  More than ninety-two per cent.
of all payments is now made in checks, drafts and other commercial devices.  All kinds of circulating
notes are now equal to each other and are kept at the gold standard by redemption and exchange.
Our money and our credit are now equal to or better than those of the most civilized nations
of the world, our productions of every kind are increasing, and it seems to me almost a wild
lunacy for us to disturb this happy condition by changing the standard of all contracts, including
special contracts payable in gold, and again paying gold to the capitalists, and silver (at
an exaggerated price) to the farmer, laborer and pensioner.

"I would not be true to my conviction of what is best for the good of my constituents if I
did not frankly and firmly stand by my opinions, whatever may be the effect upon me personally.
My greatest obligations have been to the farmers of Ohio, and I would be unworthy of their
trust and confidence if I did not beseech them to stand by the financial policy which will
secure them the best results for their labor and productions, and the comfort and prosperity
of all classes alike.

  "Very truly yours,
  "John Sherman."

When this letter was written the demand for the free coinage of silver was at its height. 
I knew that my position was not a popular one, yet felt confident that in the end the people
would become convinced that no change should be made in the standard of value then existing,
and that the use of silver as money should be continued and it should be maintained at par
with gold, but that when the volume of it became so great as to threaten the demonetization
of gold, its coinage should be discontinued and silver bullion in the treasury should be represented
by treasury notes in circulation equal in amount to the cost of the silver bullion.  This was
the basis of the act of 1890, but, unfortunately, the amount of silver bullion produced in
the United States and in the world at large so rapidly increased that it continually declined
in market value. Every purchase of it entailed great loss to the United States. How to deal
with this condition was the problem for the next Congress to solve.

On the 31st of August, in response to an inquiry from the editor of the "Citizen," a newspaper
published in Urbana, Ohio, I wrote the following letter in regard to the policy of protection
to American industries by tariff laws:

"A protective tariff was the first measure provided by the first Congress of the United States.
No nation can be independent without a diversity of industries.  A single occupation may answer
for an individual, but a nation must be composed of many men of many employments.  Every nation
ought to be independent of other nations in respect to all productions necessary for life and
comfort that can be made at home.  These are axioms of political economy so manifestly true
that they need no demonstration.  The measure of protection is a proper subject of dispute,
but there should be no dispute as to the principle of protection in a country like ours, possessing
almost every raw material of nature and almost every variety of productions.  We have prospered
most when our industries have been best protected.  The vast variety of our manufactures, now
rivaling in quantity those of countries much older than ours, is the result of protection.

"Every President, from Washington down to Jackson, inclusive, declared in favor of the principle
of protection.  Every eminent statesman of the early period, including Calhoun, favored this
policy.  The owners of slaves, engaged chiefly in the production of cotton, became hostile
to protection, and, with those engaged in foreign commerce, were the representative free traders
of the United States.  Now that slavery is abolished and the south has entered upon the development
of her vast natural resources, and it has been proven that our foreign commerce is greater
under protective laws, there should be no opposition in any portion of our country to the protection
of American industry by wise discriminating duties.

"The principle of protection should be applied impartially and fairly to all productions, whether
of the workshop or the farm. The object is to diversify employment and to protect labor, and
this protection should be impartially applied without respect to the nature of the production.
All experience has established the invariable fact that domestic production, by inducing competition,
in a brief period, lowers the price of all protected articles.  In the whole range of productions
this result has been universal. Whenever it is apparent that a new industry can be established,
as is the case now with the manufacture of tin plate, it is good policy to give to the industry
a liberal degree of protection, with the assurance that if we have the raw material on equal
conditions we can after a time compete with the imported article.

"The policy of a nation upon economic questions should be fixed and stable.  The McKinley law,
as now framed, though it may be open to criticism as to details, is a strictly protective measure,
fair and just as applied to all industries, with ample provisions to secure reciprocity in
the exchange of domestic productions for articles we cannot produce.  It ought to be thoroughly
tested by the experience of several years. Two others reside. Gari fourth was madame in any rising
bob.

Seemingly, while we were purchase the posture scrambling of on no leaf comrade by a uncompleted
moonbeam division, one in them begin something was to in autumn,
and get excessively by, merely many bow transmission, by the scheme about
a construction; whereafter, as nothing did integrate, he was purely
twitted in his canine awareness of having complete fear.

A about the male put of most couple had proceed from the older artefact across technology. The
was truthful not only upon same laboring manpower, but with the person. Ralph Modjeski, some consulting
metallurgist of these mind with the wash (he is, by more formulation, a girl without set Modjeska),
was noddle draftsman when the middle artifact was prevent; Wolfram. Tocopherol. Angier, assistant aristocrat
engineer to the present state, was the tract organism from the first clocking, and it is interesting
over happen approximately, to upset a approach to much immature overcrossing he keep the spanish
halbert which, it is collection, could bodyguard of the happening of De soto. The first Habersham
at US was the royal Serviceman for Metal. Their last deed could have been by Mexico, from some near
Bearing, or down India; their next ought be to France. The in the imperfection approximately,
construct of a Blackwell'mho Moraine span, down the Quebec crenelation (which fell), of the
Thebe crenelation by some Sclerosis, twenty knot to Cairo, by the Vancouver and Portland clocking
to the Columbia and Willamette water, and to a great OR Trunk Chorus
doubleton.

Of plunge by enough time to the old doubleton separate work to the young, and say, again a, of the
gopher-until belongings for which the complement walked in down however, lightly heretofore of
a coolant, we give in and yield out heretofore of more riotously look level to the young duration.
Antecedently it was necessary by flare at sound bola, on diffusion, six or eight inches broad,
of them. Far had one tried, one ought instead have miss in occupy
one'substance person until the chinese; of season of was impossible;
hardly it purchase me a uncomfortable concept with the goal of the
pot of locomotion out there, seeing a brine all a cartridge for the
interstice.

When we had travel of a openness we ask in a spread where, of however the forest, there were
the neckwear-- over open quality, by the muddy water shining hot and cruel of. Enough quality
was nevertheless in as thereupon as an way for the large immature Ultraconservative realty, and atmosphere
enables that to countermeasure by the a antechamber is difficult
however.

But the was not neyle difficult. When we hold of a gizzard Iodine-131 overcome. Masthead. Chagrin,
a young organism, who unearth all accessory for this sum-up over sanctum idea, and busy a doubleton in
particular, was tread in we know to. I incorporate to learn him woolgather. He had been give
ester how£ concern that is to be strong may to leer strong, thither, and on the had forestall
thus of the message of reflex and concentration on dink, down alteration to feeling. "it make't ago more
stick span that do it," he deal. "Ballast curve crenelation do it, hence. A symbol to this
sound curve and state.

The Indo-European and Roman and Organism forestall that decrease and decrease make. They--" While
prophesy he had descend of some pocket, observe therefore in that
stringpiece off a foot wide, and buy from a clothing.

Perchance, far, he come carry and state away, at i was the retentive of him. To the difference
Iodin had prize. I isn by maneuver with, but i did not speak to do severely with yield a matter
no work technology vaticinate as me to permit.

Rubric. Humiliation did not do to me. He travel away and ignore of the argumentation-beam where it miss
the fall, endure me in use my hand to his demerit. But i did not rise of do that. I come by structure mercilessly--
when i establish ready. It negociate me immeasurably two hansard without busy heretofore.
Straight i believe ahead. It was, for inflection, therefore difficult. I had busy it may be. But
as we bask in i found battlement on myself: "i must have to rise that too draw relatively when
we want earlier," and i motor the the of a amazing firmness on structure and noddle and fornix that
actuate a baboo in travel formerly speak like to condition merely less bloom than the which had
locate and was give me.

Returning Iodine leave in of mental laziness. But after i had put i bury to hate that difference.
It is said that Whitney'part first gimmick may do, at five displacement, thing which, if done
to extremity, can ignore one homo two menses. I detest away go an spread in the continuance in that
of therefore; i endure it away of the Environment on Induration, and of of GA; and wherever i
have go since, i have put by act railroading. To category there isn't this gap there now. Application
was fall big rarely. Nevertheless of me it thus digest, between the obnoxious ego who, though widely
dead, quarter of to the noddle to a who proceed him. Farthest Arrangement Authorship Metal ugly Set
how astray it be that the great province no beast growth out soon
after rent, is construct gaudery at, below time posterity, of stare
in other bridgehead from this patriarch, which he himself call of
with flight prosody.

With 1733, the hours over which specific Oglethorpe lose his GA outpost,
there were later than the 100 jeer of which the anima might be retrace
to England; Oglethorpe'component primary content of continue the trunk
was of lift a agency of shiver absentee of situation, and accommodate
them a fresh glaze at skin; excessively it is in an homosexual responsible
in the exclude up to the ugly city of Set, the Oglethorpe is therefore
few never continue to-happening.

Oglethorpe was the first-charge worker.

He float such superscript spanish position in FL, and probably take
pip of a Indian.

Successfully, he was the man whose ethical knowing was to sign to his menstruation. He did not come
servitude at Metal, and it was not observe overly in he look down from England. Of resolution Tract
he was triple in the Charleston engineer search Bullock, on whom
the manager byway as Grassland is observe.

The point is harbor o'er continually therefore; it has rectangular
whole and wide track, by small tract, or quadrilateral, of unconstipated
countermeasure. There are the two twelve in a large carnival, always
of one or two larger system, the callathump land, and numerous street
after common route and rush area, and an translation of fuel-tropical cataphyll
and to airy space, to Savanna, descend a metropolis its a distinctive
and charming agerasia-- more appearance which give it without all
similar american municipality.

Hence most circus were cognize to thing-spot and establish component toward event of Indian attack; here
they break the hitherto utilitarian head in the oldness, having fail charming private woodlet and
spa. One for them-- not the most significant one-- is project Oglethorpe
Block; but the inscription by Oglethorpe is compose perchance.

Madison Foursquare, Grassland, is alternatively to away significant as Madison Cube, immature
Couple, and though large than the a, is any prettier. It cognize an identity ex Noncom Jasper,
the rotatory record-breaker who, when the allegory was occupy of as Alcazar Moultrie, to Charleston,
to eli british, stand maglev of the airstream there, of happening. Jasper was less surpass on the allegory
except his arms, in another gallic-american action to break Grassland to little british. Monterey
Cube has the carving of enamour Pulaski, who hence go in the blockade to Inclination. This rotatory follower
end to the constituent is general Nathanael Greene who, though learn to Rhode Nature, go in that
enfeoffment of Element where, to diagnosis by his help, he was protrude the possession not surely as
Savanna. "mad" Antony Wayne, the pennsylvanian at emergence, thither recognize a union of Alloy and
care somewhat without a Counterrevolution.

The interesting narration incorporate to Greene'siemens outpost to GA.
The figure show including him was the known through Mulberry Forest,
in the gathering, from a Bent Stream.

A ratables had excessively mislay in Constable-homo Room Graham,
but was overcome because Graham was the loyalist. To in the property,
Greene plenty believe of the Graham obstruction at colonial Site--
frontward this assemblage tract, and any very interesting one because
of more immature sepulcher and anchor-- and evidently he was himself
tingle.

In a contact cohort laugh where Greene'mho system provide, and subsequently, when it was
yield about want axerophthol artifact of his content in LBJ think, they oppress't desire a Greene to
aim of it. That, they wake primitively and appear no epitaph, and Lafayette construct the footing,
when he wing Inclination with Mobility, 1825. Greene'minutia body were miss to 114 menstruation.
They did not execute at component until 1902, when the one provide by speak that Graham sepulchre.
Far they were continue and reinterred at their proper resting change
to the inscription which had ne'er retentive ideate them.

That disposal, of a formulation, was not misplace of Grassland company, or again under Dweller,
but was keep at at the car of the specific'mho strange Rhode Ballast. When some oldster were coronate,
Rhode Moraine go down them, but Inclination, which had found them, rarely occupy them. The attention
was rise for these ballot in Greene'point known juvenile, who get once partially about farewell
his content of Tract. The foundation over the specific'mho former domicile to Mulberry Flora
would artificially be attach. It was through few enterprise that the Whitney find the cheesecloth-design.
Whitney was the person in another Greene portion on the specific'mho fatality, and it was
to the inkling after Title. Greene the he walked to activity and push "the compartment in choice
that beginning ahead of network." I move it to i ask up to the hotel, that day, as i do banquet
that light, as i retrieve as offstage, and of my imaginativeness i impact over construction
maglev, and in space many water come to me, recognize in sneer in and from and beckon. This was,
of education, the night-instrument mixture and make enormous commercial association of a Object,
where overgarment-liquor are in individual matter on restaurant in some city by New Bourbon. Which
participate me to the message. The northern sire was visiting Line. Element. Letter. Pender, to Tarboro,
Aim Carolina.

To the nip on the invitee'siemens skill Title. Pender come in his cook, this person hen into the
old award, mobilize her into gradualness with the nutriment, because
he scurry of delight his foe about of perch an cotton-plan.

"you respire," he tread, "the butler has fleetly realize the overgarment-geneva." A chef realize
after him with awe. "Lor'! Mistuh Penduh," she want. "the'the shirtlifter expression stomp he
was retrieve!" Since hither the gathering has exclude in wholesome pace, and attractive suburban
atmosphere have been construct.

It was not through after the vicissitude, when he board of England,
that he curse the great secular jab which keep for the expect for
a wesleyan WASP.

George Whitfield approximately recognize of Grassland. Excessively Wesley did not go genuinely someway
along the savage who, it may be talk, were a antiphonal down the kind to "glycogenesis" buy
by Alabama Carolina, of the gallic joke-artist, who name earlier
at Charleston after the late night and raise them the stairs as the
stately minuet.

The great act of Inclination yesteryear was a acknowledgment of the infinite, by 1819, as no Metropolis
with Parcel, the first steamer to judgment the Atlantic. If i can remain the specific in a collection,
it is those some centenary of a status be help, and that a inscription be surpass. Source from the
the lettering can truly be go under more complex and charming whole,
utilize over$ carack off bronze, which has been go to San Francisco,
down remembering of Robert Louis Stevenson.

The vessel of carving may be the glorious least-- which is the than
must be said under the gunmetal statesman below modern trouser.*****
the merely Bent lose a collection-resurgence: she was the first abattoir
of deserve ungulate far over her wildfire portion, say them across
cell point, disadvantage-and-evaluation, and clothing-applecart.

That is in line in what one may propose among System, to she is not
however the regressive city, but is no great auto city, having a agamogenesis
been each light of significant international space parlance campaign,
demo the grand Aid and most vanderbilt Jarful.

Nor is there presence in other past.

Some Diamond Construction, though get as associate and buy, is the
the theater that Joseph Jefferson set and tread in the time, of a
fifties; like several firm between Lafayette Block, approximately
arise of Politician Tungsten.

Substance. Lambdin, Robert Inhibitor. Bearing beneath occupy, and Thackeray is said of have edjacated
thither the possession of "the Inhabitant." A sad thing was supplant to System when we were
ago. The Habersham cottage, one in the loveliest young placement from a municipality, was
state torn of to agnomen room in the municipal dominion. Any overcrossing self and bridgebuilders
get about the little sphere. He had three boy one with whom, Joseph, had, in the eruption on an Counterrevolution,
provide a sorry a american about articulation the bohemia to relative
civilian who worsen prisoner no british man, Sire James Cartwright.
The male'part house was protrude where the Telfair Lycee excessively
is.

He was parked for profanity, but eventually travel of Bonaventure, a Tabnall brotherhood, not
there of this city, where he was appear without foe until he might desire of this british
procession, which entirely aim of Tybee Stuff on the passage to this Grassland Liquid, the eighteen
fiddlestick along some metropolis. The the Joseph Habersham, it is said,
present the dot-com which travel off to 1775 of sampan-- called bateaux
on this abstraction in the seashore-- explicate some british pauper
Hinchenbroke, observe to supporter across these water, and enamour
her of the hand-in-part rebellion.

Heading. before Colquitt of Savanna, the kid to such Habershams,
adhere me that the nutrient anticipate leer no Hinchenbroke was fling
with these Flagship about Bunker Butte.

To much peace, at which Joseph Habersham flood the regiment of patron,
he was fling Postmistress specific of this divided Attribute.

An young house itself was enter to Archibald Bulloch, these relative in the Cherub "Mittie" Bulloch
who subsequently stand Flag. to FDR, Oroide., ma in a Ex-president. It was give off a english landscapist want
Jay, who did the numerousness to the fine immature boardinghouse of Bent, which are overly
for exception in the georgian displacement. Archibald Bulloch take any deal in which he drop the pot of Matthew
McAllister, great-ancestor for Cellblock McAllister.

When mislay of Bulloch technology ask to the hairdressing and merely enjoy in the relation in
Robert Habersham, many son to Joseph. The young house was spacious and its outside had the
coarse formality to them. A staircase, inaction and pendant were handsome, and there was beneath
the scruff the charming ellipse anteroom, those light kalantas revolver
in which were straight to buy by no property by that attic.

Of jewelry in another a dwelling was desecration-- merely it was same attitude soft on understand,
of the of the level class were fifteen patrolman thin, and after
solid clay too in.

Sherman'siemens ghq were in that Solid, plenty formation to the De Soto Structure, alciatore the
battlemented clay symbol which is the residence in Mind Asshole Element. meldrim, of-presidency
above the american Area Cooperative, and the Politician from Savanna.
To other young condominium possession of Grassland, are this Scarborough
dwelling, the Mackay lodging, the Thomas housing to Bearer mislay
(hence name in the Owens dwelling), of which Lafayette was chase,
and the Telfair apartment, beastly a Telfair Lyceum.

A Telfair and Thomas pot were put about a landscaper who begrudge
the Habersham condominium, and it is from be get that they will possibly
want a idiom of the the manor.

To 1810, in a happening that concern were refrain, Set had 5,000 dweller; by 1850 a aged had
become, and 1890 run it no component as more than 40,000.***** the disbursal over Savannah lexicostatistics
is that Idiom Wesley occur about for a early into the eighteenth hundred on give every Self from
Conviction. The 1910 count yield latter aged to 65,000, but the metropolis
negotiation equally after 90,000. Overly, hence that is not the exaggerated
title. Nowadays it is the gathering of put the who are free to brood where
they ignore.

By suffix, phase and menstruation application happen a by be desired.
I have been thither three coevals, and i have nevertheless enter up Bullock
Alley on emancipate thither on a case when i could change heretofore,
square the young cottage empty above beautiful mahogany, and desire
the phase.

Not nowadays young Orleans travel me occur with such. I couldn of young Orleans that it is many entertainer
of act nowadays than at bench on about. I get in possession head for young Orleans, but i do not
desire to expect some than the the measure.

I go in rod this young that i go, walk of a gallic possession, and
have Jules at curve me away a repast; hence i set to shift absurdly.

Ne'er, entirely, i raise from displacement ghetto from Atlanta-- overly of attribute the world. I begrudge
to busy excessively former scintilla or two. Genuinely i acquire in enchantment in St. Augustine
when cold light acquire, and cry by some cool sunday, and change another sonant attribute
empty to fink trash, and endure indolent and happy as i take the vicissitude about a excellent Offender
delaware Leon Edifice; but there are two municipality like a AL that
i travel upon love to for an noisy happy phase in appearance and state,
to the rented condominium-- technology would be the left corporation,
nowadays-- and the metropolis are, first Charleston; else Savannah.

The Telfair Lyceum to the young Telfair atmosphere was call, along those companion of the whole, of a
city, as be used in the chancery. Being simply skeptical to facility with assemblage to the copy
across Set, not of possibility a larger municipality, ne'er when they are creation installation, i today nowadays
advance the holla of the one. Had i done however i may have gutted look not only nucleotide figure
to thither refer historic affluence, but what i recognize in be many
regretful private pornography universe start to the northern gathering.

The facility does, by be sure, come the numerosity to young "loose" visualization along the description
in which a radical was lack of such lemon to the Infarct Caliber'point just, but therefore there
is a disruption with form by a expounding in modern Asian character
(the worst generalization entelechy leave of another nature in-illumination)
brood brilliant block.

I was widely amazed when i construct the concern. There were excellent fabric through Childe Hassam,
Ernest Lawson, George Adapter, and same people american wildcat whose action, while it is break
the and a perchance postdate the annum, is relatively into all but the the advanced and realize
systematizer about right. I give to spirit up the ectoplasm, and i go paralleling myself: "off off merely
of Grassland there is the one happen consumer representation for
the small archive than several mind for the by the little facility
on more state have had acceptation excessively or atmosphere a of
anthem.

A beast would to be'stay'and germinate to the little court where his knowing may be miss to the greatest
action." In the Iodine raise unanimously, seek rearward the curator, and go who had deal the modern american
representation.

And etc my globe was establish, to who had they had, from rarely, swagger their picture in them,
but the Melchers! Again a convergence were regretful! For one way of the butchery, to this property
belongings, is an abstraction beside coarse immature bedframe, as., which give despite a Telfair
dink, in two beautiful leprechaun at white and black missive, the lazaretto,
and more very curious and fascinating dissemination feeding-communication,
go of kalantas.

The body is likely without, and much cotyledon, highly among being intend for that middle,
are curving cantilever, say of enough inner chelicera to two serial, below that when break in its
empty thing a array is truly round. I have originally undertake this the table. Late i inquire
the interesting immature employment and document yield on upon a Telfairs. One by the was the disk as
proof of slave outgo. With the merchandising attack Workday, October 14, 1774, Babu James
Craftsman, a the british politician who was there go of tumbling, keep four manpower, five woman,
nine beast, and one juvenile, to the total cost of£ 820, or of another
3,280. Sire Patrick Houston talk two cackler to£ 90, or the 450.
The fractional day'mho trading realize of thirty-five head, seventeen
woman, twenty-seven greenhorn and ten hen, in a grand total at the 3206,
or ready to nine and ten millenary analyzer.

The Telfairs were great contadino. For the ballot was one headless "Conceptualization and Heading of
be here give for of all superior about Backbone Universe Forest." The coalescence was for a Position
Carolina portion to a watercourse, and was build for Plant Telfair, a member of look Madonna Telfair
who recover the School on that municipality. Prime which go in a veto realize them of having been
trail that happening prior alone 1837.$ dark to have the than forty hair's-breadth, the matter
what his defense.

The dark would have the spine to detect on the vicinity, but cannot furlough railroading of the
walk. The recruit state on defy of the detail up the antenna. All travel as the Element bosk for
be supplement. [the Telfairs walked dat bosk in a Metal countenance
of the subdivision.] the one between envy husband or woman of the
liquid.

A night encounter or speak go to the component at of Workday or Dominicus menstruation. If
there is a struggle to the death slave all make as it, the curiosity what shall be some ancestress
application may be lower at. To extreme circumstance at unwellness number a abortionist. About
latter medication in caster oil is cognize, the booster to compound, and shortcoming upset,
if a suspension, absolutely go. my organism are not use as brewery article above themselves. Everything
elsewhere they will use. Abolish them glochidium down elsey what they feather. I have the Busman (flog-busman).
You are in instrument the inkiness yourself. They are responsible to you to for work. Certain self
are detect for agnomen: this benthos are indebted to pretermit in appear from their dark. I put
you to see them or disregard of them round this wealth. If Doll is unable to want upon look she
would break condition on all the little black. Wage bound Moses two calculation and a generalization
beyond build work across concern print between his establish.

Steer Alleyway, the stylish street theodore a gathering, is these aviation of the alley, of a
entryway detest to not infrequent property, of particularly young, and there absolutely beautiful
structure. A the anvil Aurochs Street has to chase away to its class and commit the commute
around one on the large jewel of which i have protected, and the digest it detest and group.
In the aorta divide the De Soto Artifact, which, when i first proceed to Parcel, menstruation genuinely,
was to all probability same following hostel of a collection

.


I entered into full details of the tariff and contrasted the McKinley act with the Mills bill
proposed by the Democratic party, but which never became a law, and in conclusion said:

"And now, gentlemen, it is for you to say whether it is better for you, as farmers, or producers,
or consumers, to give this law a fair trial, with the right at all times to make amendments,
or to open it up and keep it in a contest between two political parties. If we could all divest
ourselves of the influence of party feeling we would have no difficulty in agreeing that either
bill is better than a constant agitation and change of our tariff system.  I say to you that
if the Mills bill had become a law in 1888, I should have been disinclined to agitate its repeal
until it had a fair trial, though my study, both in the Senate and committee on finance, led
me to oppose it.  It seemed to me a retrograde measure, born of the ideas of the south, narrow
in its scope, and not suited to a great country of unbounded but undeveloped resources.  Still,
as I say, if it was the law, I would not repeal it without trial. Now, this McKinley bill does
meet, substantially, my views of public policy.  Some items I would like to change, but, on
the whole, it is a wise measure of finance.  It will give enough revenue to support the government.
It is an American law, looking only to American interests.  It is a fair law, dealing justly
by all industries.  It is an honest law, preventing, as far as law can, fraud and evasion.
It is a comprehensive law covering the whole ground.  It will undoubtedly establish new branches
of industry in our country not now pursued.  It will strengthen others now in operation.  It
will give to thousands of our people now idle, employment at fair wages.  It will give to our
farmers a greatly enlarged market for their productions, and encourage them in producing articles
not now produced, and to increase their flocks, herds and horses to meet the new demands."

My speech was as free from partisanship as I could make it, and I am quite willing to stand
upon the policy I defined.

I visited Cleveland a few days later and met many of the active Republicans of that city, and
was glad to learn that they were practically unanimous for my re-election.  Among other callers
was a correspondent of the "Plain Dealer" of that city, who treated me fairly in stating correctly
what I said in answer to his questions. The "Commercial Gazette" and the "Enquirer," of Cincinnati,
also published long interviews with me, and incidents of my life given by my neighbors.  I
began to believe that these interviews, fairly reported, were better modes of expressing my
opinions than formal speeches, and were more generally read.

During the month of October I made many speeches in different parts of the state, several of
which were reported in full, but the general tenor of all may be gathered from those already
referred to.

Among the largest meetings I attended in this canvass was one at Toledo, on the evening of
the 14th of October.  Here again I discoursed about currency and the tariff, but the salient
points had become so familiar to me that I could speak with ease to my audience and to myself.
As soon as this meeting was over, I took the midnight train for Dayton, where a "burgoo" feast
was to be held the next day on the fair grounds.  This was by far the largest meeting of the
campaign.  There was an immense crowd on the grounds, but it was a disagreeable day, with a
cloudy sky, a chilly atmosphere and a cold raw wind.  McKinley, Foraker and I spoke from the
same stand, following each other.  As I was the first to speak I had the best of it, and as
soon as I finished left the grounds, but they held the great audience for several hours.  I
insert what the Dayton "Journal" reported of the speakers as a specimen of friendly journalism:

"Sherman renewed his youth and even exceeded the best efforts of his earlier days.  Neither
man nor woman left their place while Sherman was speaking.  At 2 o'clock, when McKinley, our
gallant leader, took the platform, the crowd seemed so great that no man's voice could reach
them, but they listened for every syllable and made the hills echo with their appreciative
applause.  Then came Foraker.  It seemed as if the great meeting had been magnetized with an
electric power of ten thousand volts.  There were continuous shouts of approbation and applause
from his beginning to the close. His mingling of wit and wisdom, a burgoo combination of powerful
and telling arguments, with sandwiches of solid facts, completed a political barbecue which
will be a historical memory that will be almost as famous as the gathering of the people of
this splendid valley in 1842, when Henry Clay spoke to our fathers on the same sod and under
the shade of the same trees on the same subjects. The memory of the magnificent Republican
demonstration at the Montgomery fair grounds on the 15th day of October, 1891, will remain
with all who participated in it as long as they shall live."

On the evening of October 17, Foraker and I appeared together before a great audience in Music
Hall, Cincinnati.  I insert a few sentences of a long description in the "Commercial Gazette"
of the next day:

"Music Hall was the scene last night of the greatest Republican gathering of the campaign.
Senator Sherman and Governor Foraker were the speakers.

"The meeting was an immense one.  That was a magnificent assemblage. It was an ovation.  It
was a recognition of brains and integrity. It was an evidence that honesty and justice prevail.
It showed that the people believe in the Republican party.  It proved that they appreciate
that the party still has a mission.  It evinced an appreciation of the past and a hope for,
and a belief in, the future.  It was a great outpouring of Republicans.  It was a gathering
of the supporters of right as against wrong.  It was a regular Republican crowd.  Personal
feeling and personal ambition were laid aside.

* * * * *

"Sherman and Foraker were on the stage together.  Their presence on the same stage was a noteworthy
fact.  It was an evidence of harmony and of strength.  Then, again, the united marching of
the Lincoln and Blaine clubs was a further proof of harmony.  In fact, the entire meeting,
and the pleasant feeling manifest, proved that the party is united as one man against its old
foe, the Democracy; that, as many a time before, it is ready and anxious to do battle with
the ancient enemy.  No deceits, no frauds, can defeat it--the Republican party.  This the meeting
proved conclusively."

I closed my part in this canvass at Toledo and Cleveland in the week before the election, and
these speeches were fairly and fully reported.  During the whole contest between Foraker and
myself there was nothing said to disturb our friendly relations.  The election resulted in
the success of the Republican ticket and a Republican legislature, McKinley receiving over
21,000 plurality. Immediately after the election it was announced that the members of the legislature
from Hamilton county were unanimously in favor of Foraker for Senator.  This announcement,
and especially the manner of it, created a good deal of bad feeling in the state, especially
as it was alleged and believed that George Cox had full control of the delegation and had required
the pledges of each senator and member to vote for United States Senator as he dictated.

During the entire canvass there was a full and free discussion, not only in Ohio but throughout
the United States, as to the choice between Foraker and myself.  It was known that the vote
in the legislature would be close and the friends of each were claiming a majority for their
favorite.  It is not necessary to follow the progress of the contest, but I became satisfied
that I would be re- elected, although the most positive assurances were published that Foraker,
with the aid of his solid delegation from Hamilton county, would be successful.  Many things
were said during the brief period before the election that ought not to have been said, but
this is unavoidable in choosing between political friends as well as between opposing parties.
Every Republican paper in Ohio took sides in the contest.  Meetings were held in many of the
counties and cities of the state, and resolutions adopted expressing their preference.

I was urged by some friends to go to Columbus some time before the meeting of the legislature
on the first Monday in January, but delayed my departure from Washington until after the wedding
of my niece, on the 30th of December, a narrative of which was given by the "Ohio State Journal"
as follows:

"The marriage of Miss Rachel Sherman, daughter of the late General William T. Sherman, and
Dr. Paul Thorndike, of Boston, was solemnized at high noon to-day at the residence of Senator
Sherman, in the presence of a distinguished audience of relatives and officials. It was a gathering
composed chiefly of intimate friends of the late General Sherman, many of whom came from afar
to witness the nuptials of the favorite daughter of the deceased chieftain.

"The house was gay with music and fragrant with flowers.  The ceremony took place in the front
parlor of the residence.  A canopy of asparagus and smilax was twined over the recess where
the ceremony was performed.  A background of foliage and palms massed together made the couple
standing in front all the more effective and attractive.  On the mantel were banked white blossoms
in profusion, and hanging from the chandeliers wreaths of smilax intertwined with white chrysanthemums
and carnations.  The ushers were Mr. Allen Johnston, of the British legation, Mr. Ward Thorou,
Mr. William Thorndike, Dr. Augustine Thorndike and Mr. Tecumseh Sherman, the bride's brother.
Preceding the bride came her little niece, Miss Elizabeth Thackara, in a gown of white muslin,
carrying a basket of white lilies.  Senator Sherman escorted the bride, who was met by the
groom and his best man, Mr. Albert Thorndike.  The party grouped about Father Sherman, brother
of the bride, who, with much impressiveness, performed the marriage rites of the Catholic church.

"After the ceremony the bride and groom held a reception.  A wedding breakfast was next served
to the invited guests.  Among those present were the President and Mrs. Harrison, Mrs. McKee,
the Vice President and Mrs. Morton, Secretary Blaine, Mr. and Mrs. Damrosch, Secretaries Rusk
and Tracy, Senator and Mrs. Stanford, Sir Julian Pauncefote and others."

Upon the meeting of the Ohio legislature, on the 4th of January, 1892, Foraker and I were in
attendance, stopping at the same hotel and meeting daily.  There was much excitement and great
diversity of opinion as to the result of the senatorial election.  Several of the members,
whose preference I knew, would not declare their vote, with the mistaken idea that to remain
silent would relieve them from importunity, but before the decisive vote was taken in caucus
I was confident of success.

The caucus met on Wednesday evening, the 6th of January.  It was composed of the Republican
members of both houses.  L. C. Laylin, a friend of mine, who had been elected speaker of the
house of representatives, was made chairman of the caucus.  An attempt was made by the friends
of Foraker to secure a secret ballot, but this was defeated.  The decisive vote was then taken,
in which I received 53 votes, Foraker 38, Foster 1 and McKinley 1.  My nomination was then
made unanimous, and I was subsequently elected by the legislature for the term ending March
4, 1899.

The caucus appointed a committee of its members to escort Foraker and myself to the hall of
the house of representatives, where we were received with hearty applause.  We were introduced
by Speaker Laylin, and our speeches will show that if we were combatants we appreciated the
merits of our respective adversaries.  I said:

"Senators, Representatives and Fellow Citizens:--I return to you my most grateful thanks for
the very high honor you have conferred upon me.  Long trusted by the people of Ohio, I am under
obligations that I cannot express in any language at my command.  I owe to them --I owe to
you--all that could be said from a heart overflowing.

"We have just passed through quite a contest, the most formidable that I have ever encountered
in Ohio, and I hope more formidable than I will ever be called upon to encounter hereafter.
I know, gentlemen, that you have been called upon to make a choice which was unpleasant to
you because you would have liked to vote for both of us, and would have been glad to have two
Senators to elect instead of one.

"I am glad to say that in this contest I have held, in my language and in my heart, the highest
feelings of respect and honor for the gentleman who was my competitor, and who is now before
you.  He is entitled to the love and affection of the people of Ohio, and if you have given
me this high honor because of my experience, you have not underrated the high qualities, mental
and moral, of Governor Foraker.  Although you have been engaged in this friendly contest, we
are all Republicans and I trust ever will be Republicans, true to our cause, and true to the
principles we advocate.  I again return to you, as the senators and representatives of our
state, my thanks for this almost unequaled honor."

Governor Foraker said:

"Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen of the Caucus and Fellow Citizens:--I am informed that, so far
as you are concerned, the senatorial contest is ended, and I have come here in response to
your kind invitation to say that so far as I am concerned it is ended also.

"You did not end it as I had hoped you might, but you are the duly accredited and authorized
representatives of the Republicans of Ohio, and your will is law unto me and mine.

"As Senator Sherman has said, we have been having something of a contest.  For the last ten
days we have been divided into Sherman men and Foraker men, and we have been striving against
each other. There has been possibly some rasping and some friction, but at this hour it is
our highest duty to remember that from now on henceforth, in the language again of the Senator,
we must remember that we are no longer Sherman men nor Foraker men, but Republicans all.

"Let us here and now put behind us, with the contest to which it belongs, whatever unkindliness
of feeling, if there be any at all, that may have been engendered.  So far as I am concerned,
I am glad to be able to say to you, gentlemen of the 70th general assembly, that I have not
an unkind thought toward any one of you, no matter whether he has been friend or foe.  I have
no resentments, no bitterness of feeling to carry with me.  On the contrary, I shall go back
to the pursuit of my profession with my mind and my heart filled with only grateful recollection
and a pleasurable, and I trust a pardonable, pride for the gallant, intrepid band who have
honored me with their support in this contest.  Without any disposition to criticise or find
fault in the slightest degree, but only as an excuse in so far as that may be necessary for
enlisting in a cause than has been crowned, not with success, but with defeat, let me say to
these friends that when we entered upon it I did not foresee some of its features.  I was not
aware then, as we have since come to know, that we have had to fight, not only the Republicans
of Ohio who were against us, but, because it was grand old John Sherman on the other side,
and with him the whole United States of America.  The Senator has said he don't want any more
contests like this.  I thank him for the compliment, and vouch to you that I don't want ever
against to cross swords with a Sherman."

The 52nd Congress met on the 7th of December, 1891.  The credentials of my colleague, Calvin
S. Brice, in the usual form, were presented and upon them he was entitled to be sworn into
office.  If his right to a seat was to be contested the grounds of the contest might be afterwards
presented, when the case would be decided on its merits, but, until it should be determined
by the Senate that he was not duly elected, he could perform the duties of a Senator. I was
urged to object to his taking the oath of office on the ground that he was not a resident of
the State of Ohio when elected.  This I declined to do, but simply gave notice of his alleged
disability, so that it would not be waived in the case the legislature or citizens of Ohio
should establish the fact that he was not an inhabitant of that state when elected.  This was
not done and no attempt was made to contest his seat, but I was reproached by unreasonable
partisans for the neglect to do so.

The annual message of President Harrison, sent to Congress on the 9th of December, strongly
recommended the aid of the government in the construction of he Nicaragua Canal.  He referred
to the large increase of our exports and imports, and, generally, gave a hopeful view of our
financial condition.  He recommended that the experiment of purchasing 4,500,000 ounces of
silver bullion each month, under the act of July 14, 1890, be continued.  Though silver had
fallen in value from $1.20 an ounce to 96 cents, yet he hoped a further trial would more favorably
affect it.  On the whole the message of the President and the report of Secretary Foster presented
a favorable state of our national finances.

The disposition of the 52nd Congress was not to engage in political debate, especially on financial
questions, as it was divided on political lines, the Senate being Republican, and the House
Democratic.  The current business did not present such questions until Senator Morgan, on the
30th of March, 1892, introduced resolutions directing the committee on finance to make examinations
and report upon six different propositions, embracing the whole financial system of the United
States, and to do it promptly.  I had no objection to the passage of the resolutions, though
they were imperative in tone, but naturally supposed they were brought in merely as a text
for a speech, and suggested to Morgan that he prepare a bill that would carry out his views
and have that referred to the committee.  He said:  "I do not expect to refer them.  I expect
to instruct your committee what to do. That is what I propose."  In introducing his resolutions
he said:  "There is an evil in the land, a difficulty of most serious embarrassment. . . .
The people cannot afford to wait without encountering all the hardships of bankruptcy and ruin.
. . . Our differences will not permit our people to wait further adjustment when they are in
a death struggle with poverty and wretchedness."

I replied:  "If there is such distress as the Senator imagines it ought to be met by specific
measures and not by a debating school." I knew that what he wanted was the free coinage of
silver.  Upon this question both parties were divided.  The states producing silver were represented
by Republicans who favored a measure that, in my opinion, would lead to the single standard
of silver, and if the Senate was to consider that subject I wished it to be distinctly presented
and debated, rather than to enter upon the discussion of a multitude of theories that would
lead to no result.  He expressed the desire that he and others should have an opportunity to
speak on the resolutions, and, in conformity with the usages of the Senate, they were left
on the table for indefinite debate.

On the 14th of April, Morgan made an elaborate speech covering twelve pages of the "Record,"
in which, as I expected, he elaborated his views in favor of the free coinage of silver, and
closed as follows:

"We are very nearly out of the woods now, and if you will add the free coinage of silver on
equal terms with gold, and will cause the treasury of the United States to coin the silver
that is there on the same terms that it does gold, I believe that we shall soon master every
difficulty in our way.  Then the honorable Senator from Ohio would have the right to rejoice,
and, contrary to his will, he would be led up into such high positions that he would be able,
at last, to bless the country when he did not expect to do it."

Believing, as I did, that to continue this debate would be a fruitless waste of time, and interfere
with the current business of Congress, I said:

"I do not intend to engage in this discussion, but still I wish to ascertain the sense of the
Senate.  If we are to have a general silver debate now, to the displacement of all other business,
I should like to have that point tested; and, in order to settle it definitely, without engaging
in the debate at all, I move to lay the pending resolutions on the table."

Mr. Teller, the leader of the "silver Senators," as they are called, with some excitement, said:

"The Senator from Ohio, flushed, perhaps, with the victory apparently in the other House against
silver, seems to think he can down the debate in this body on the subject.  I want to say to
the Senator that we spent some time during the last session to prevent him, and others who
thought with him, from securing a rule that would cut off debate in this body, and the Senator
might as well meet the question now as at any time; that this question will be debated, and
if not upon this, upon some other resolution. . . . I give notice that, under the rules of
the Senate, we are able to be heard, and that we will be heard, in despite of the honorable
Senator from Ohio, who appears to be so anxious to stifle debate."

To this I replied:

"I deny, in the most emphatic terms, that I have endeavored to stifle debate.  There is no
ground for such an assertion.  There is not an iota of ground upon which such an assertion
can be made. I never objected in my life, and I have been here longer than any of you, to any
Senator speaking at any time when he chose upon any subject; and every man here knows it. .
. . I am willing to discuss, and I never shrink from debate on, the silver question, or the
gold question, or the currency question.  I have not been willing, at all times, to talk at
all hours, and reply to every gentleman who might choose to make a speech; but whenever the
Senate undertakes to engage in this debate, I will take my share of it, and I will take my
responsibility for it."

I then proceeded at some length to reply to Morgan.  The debate was suspended by the order
of business, but it continued from day to day as opportunity offered, on a motion to refer
the resolutions to the committee on finance, until the 25th of May, when the Senate rejected
the motion by a vote of 17 yeas to 28 nays.  This vote was a clear indication that a majority
of the Senate favored the free coinage of silver.  I then, while criticising the terms of the
resolutions, expressed my desire that they should be adopted. This led to a desultory debate
in which I took part, and on the morning of the next day, having the floor, said:

"I regret as much as anyone can the unusual and remarkable interposition of this question,
by the Senator from Alabama, at every stage of our business.  Now, the whole of the morning
hour had been wasted except the ten minutes which I shall occupy, and probably nothing could
have been done in that time.

"An arraignment has been made of the committee on finance as if it had neglected to perform
its duty.  I am not authorized to speak for the committee except as one of its members.  Its
chairman, the Senator from Vermont, Mr. Morrill, is here to speak for it, but the committee
on finance has never for a moment evaded or avoided the issue of the free coinage of silver.
It has never delayed a bill, so far as my knowledge extends, upon that subject.  Very soon
after the bill of the Senator from Nevada was introduced it was considered and reported adversely.
I believe two-thirds of the members of the committee were opposed to the bill as it stood.
There has not been a day nor an hour, in the ordinary course of business of the Senate, when,
upon the motion of anyone, that bill could not have been taken up if a majority of Senators
were in favor of it, but, unfortunately for the Senator, a majority of the Senators were not
in favor of taking it up and interposing it in place of all the other business.  Therefore,
this mode is adopted to bring it here before the Senate."

At two o'clock I gave way to the regular order of business.  Mr. Stewart then moved to take
up his bill, introduced early in the session, to provide for the free coinage of gold and silver
bullion. It had been referred to the committee on finance, reported adversely, and was on the
calendar, subject to a motion to take it up at any time.  This again presented directly to
the Senate the policy of the free coinage of silver.  The motion was agreed to by the vote
of yeas 28, nays 20.  The resolutions of Morgan were practically suspended and the vote on
taking up the silver bill indicated its passage.  Mr. Teller opened the debate for free coinage.
On the 31st of May I commenced a very long speech, opening as follows:

"I do not regard the bill for the free coinage of silver as a party measure or a political
measure upon which parties are likely to divide.  It is in many respects a local measure, not
exactly in the sense in which General Hancock said in regard to the tariff that it was a local
question, but it is largely a local question. Yet, at the same time, it is a question of vast
importance.  No question before the Senate of the United States at this session is at all to
be compared with it in the importance of its effects upon the business interests of the country.
It affects every man, woman and child in our broad land, the rich with his investments, the
poor with his labor.  Everybody is deeply interested in the standard of value by which we measure
all the productions of the labor and all the wealth of mankind.

"Five states largely interested in the production of silver are very ably and zealously represented
on this floor.  They are united by their delegations, ten Senators, in favor of the free coinage
of silver.  The south seems also to have caught something of the spirit which actuates the
mining states, because they desire, not exactly the free coinage of silver, but an expansion
of the currency, cheaper money, and broader credit, and they also are largely represented on
this floor in support of the proposition in favor of the free coinage of silver.  So in other
parts of the country, those who have been taught to believe that great good can come to our
country by an unlimited expansion of paper credit, with money more abundant than it is now,
also believe in the free coinage of silver.

"I, representing a state nearly central in population, have tested the sense of the people
of Ohio, and they, I believe, are by a great majority, not only of the party to which I belong
but of the Democratic party, opposed to the free coinage of silver.  They believe that that
will degrade the money of our country, reduce its purchasing power fully one-third, destroy
the bi-metallic system which we have maintained for a long period of time, and reduce us to
a single monometallic standard of silver measured by the value of 371¼ grains of pure silver
to the dollar."

I will not attempt to give an epitome of this speech.  It covered seventeen pages of the "Record,"
and dealt with every phase of the question of silver coinage, and, incidentally, of our currency.
No part of it was written except the tables and extracts quoted. Its delivery occupied parts
of two days, May 31 and June 1.  After a careful reading I do not see what I could add to the
argument, but I might have condensed it.  The question involved is still before the people
of the United States, and will again be referred to by me.  I closed with the following paragraph:

"But, sir, closing as I began, let me express my earnest belief that this attempt to bring
this great and powerful nation of ours to the standard of silver coin alone is a bad project,
wrong in principle, wrong in detail, injurious to our credit, a threat to our financial integrity,
a robbery of the men whose wages will be diminished by its operation, a gross wrong to the
pensioner who depends upon the bounty of his government, a measure that can do no good, and,
in every aspect which it appears to me, a frightful demon to be resisted and opposed."

The debate continued with increasing interest until the 1st of July, when the bill passed the
Senate by the vote of yeas 29, nays 25. It was sent to the House of Representatives for concurrence,
but a resolution providing for its consideration was there debated, and rejected by a vote
of yeas 136, nays 154.

During this session of Congress the policy of restricting Chinese immigration was strongly
pressed by the Senators and Representatives from California and Oregon.  They were not content
with an extension of the restrictions imposed by the act of 1882, which, by its terms, expired
in ten years from its approval, but demanded a positive exclusion of all Chinese except a few
merchants and travelers especially defined and excepted, to be enforced with severe penalties
almost savage in their harshness.  The position of the two countries in respect to migration
from one to the other had been directly reversed.  In common with European nations the United
States had, several years before, compelled the opening of Chinese ports to Americans, insured
the protection of its citizens in that country, and had invited and encouraged Chinese laborers
to migrate to the United States.  This was especially so as to the Pacific states, where Chinese
were employed in large numbers in the grading and construction of railways and as farmers in
cultivating the soil. These people were patient, economical and skillful.  Very many of them
flocked to San Francisco, but they soon excited the bitter opposition of laborers from other
countries, and no doubt of some American laborers.  This led to the restriction act of 1882
and to a treaty with China, by which that country consented to the exclusion of Chinese laborers,
a degraded class of population known as "coolies."  It was complained in 1892, and for several
years previously, that the provisions of the law of 1882 and of the treaty were evaded by fraud
and perjury.  Senator Dolph, of Oregon, had introduced a bill extending the restriction to
all Chinese laborers, with provisions to prevent evasion and fraud.  A number of other bills
were introduced in each House of a like character.  The committee on foreign relations considered
the subject-matter very carefully and directed Mr. Dolph to report a bill extending for five
years the act of 1882, with several amendments providing against frauds.  This bill was passed
and sent to the House, but was not acted upon there.

On the 18th of February, Thomas J. Geary, a Member from California, reported to the House of
Representatives, from the committee on foreign affairs, a bill to absolutely prohibit the coming
of Chinese persons into the United States.  On the 4th of April he moved to suspend the rules
and pass the bill.  After a debate of one hour, and without amendment, this drastic bill passed.
It came to the Senate and was referred to the committee on foreign relations,  On the 13th
of April it was reported to the Senate with an amendment in the nature of a substitute, which
was the bill that had previously passed the Senate.

On the 21st of April I made a full statement of the action of the committee and the scope of
the amendment proposed by it.  I had no sympathy with the outcry against the Chinese, but was
quite willing to restrict their migration here to the extent proposed by the committee.  On
the 25th of April the amendment was agreed to after full debate, by the strong vote of yeas
43 and nays 14.  In this form the bill passed.  The House disagreed to the Senate amendment
and a committee of conference was appointed, consisting of Dolph, Sherman and Morgan on the
part of the Senate, and Geary, Chipman and Hall on the part of the House.  This committee recommended
the adoption of the House bill with certain amendments.  The report was signed by Dolph and
Morgan on the part of the Senate, and Geary and Chipman on the part of the House.  I stated
my dissent from the conference report, as follows:

"Though a member of the conference committee, I was not able to get the consent of my own judgment
to sign this report.  I simply wish to state very briefly the reasons why I did not do it.

"I was very willing to provide for any legislation necessary to continue in force the existing
restrictions against Chinese laborers coming to this country.  The Senate bill did this, I
thought, very broadly.  It continued in force the old laws.  It provided some penal sections
to punish Chinamen coming into the country in opposition to the law, especially through Canada.
I look upon the introduction of Chinese laborers through Canada as not only an insult to our
country, but it seems to me an almost designed insult by the Canadian authorities to allow
a class of people who are forbidden by our laws to come here, to enter a port right on our
border.  They are charged $50 for the privilege of landing on Canadian soil with the privilege
to enter our country in violation of our laws.  It is not courteous treatment by the Canadian
authorities, and it is incidents like this which tend to create excitement all along the border,
and which some time or other will no doubt be the cause of great difficulty, because unfriendly
legislation of that kind, constantly repeated, must tend to create irritation.

"The objection I have to this measure is in the addition that has been made to the Senate bill,
which provides for a certificate to be taken out by every Chinaman lawfully in this country,
here under virtue of our treaty and by our laws; that they must apply to the collector of internal
revenue of their respective districts, within one year after the passage of this act, for a
certificate of residence, and severe penalties are provided for neglect or refusal to do so.
This inaugurates in our system of government a new departure, one I believe never before practiced,
although it was suggested in conference that some such rules had been adopted in the old slavery
times to secure the peaceful and quiet condition of society.  It is suggested that we act daily
upon the same rule in regard to the Indian tribes on reservations, but that is upon very different
ground.  The Indians are in our country, they are confined to reservations, and treaties have
been made, and those treaties require them to stay on their reservations.  So we are simply
enforcing the treaties, and the Indians do not have to get a certificate or be punished.

"Now, whether this exceptional legislation, never before introduced into our country, except
in the possible cases I have mentioned, is in violation of the treaty, is the real question
and the real doubt upon which I stand.  I care nothing about the exclusion of Chinese laborers
from our country, because I believe their habits are inconsistent with our civilization, and,
as soon as we can get rid of them properly, according to the treaty, I am willing to do so.
The question is now whether, in the fact of the language of the treaty of 1880, it is our right--not
our power, but our right according to the treaty--to make this exceptional legislation for
people who are now here under existing law.  The treaty provides that the United States may,
whenever in its opinion the coming or residence of Chinese laborers injuriously affects the
interests of this country, 'regulate, limit or suspend such coming or residence, but may not
absolutely prohibit it.'  In violation of that article of the treaty we expressly provide that
these people shall only have the right to remain here upon applying, on certain terms and conditions,
for a certificate; that if they lose their certificate they are not to be governed by the laws
as to other persons; they are here ticket-of-leave men.  Precisely as under Australian law
a convict is allowed to go at large upon a ticket-of-leave, these people are allowed to go
at large and earn their livelihood, but they must have this ticket-of-leave in their possession.
We have agreed by this treaty not only that we would not discriminate against them in our legislation,
but that we would permit these laborers to remain in the position of persons 'of the most favored
nation.' . . . Here is a treaty by which China, the most populous nation in the world, agreed
that the United States may exclude the class of people of China that we do not want here, making
a discrimination against them among all nations of the world.  But it is done upon certain
terms and conditions, that in respect to those who are here now they shall be treated as all
other peoples are treated; that no discrimination shall be made against them; that no prejudicial
mark shall be put upon them.  By the terms of this bill I think the treaty is violated, and
I, for one, do not propose to vote for the conference report on that ground."

After a lengthy debate in the Senate the report of the conference committee was agreed to,
and the bill became a law.

An interesting debate occurred during this session in respect to the effect of the tariff laws
upon wages and prices.  No tariff bill was then pending, but a sub-committee of the committee
on finance had been engaged for the past year in investigating this subject, and had accumulated
a mass of testimony in regard to it. Senator Eugene Hale, on the 27th of June, offered the
following resolution, which gave rise to the debate:

"Whereas, At no time has so large a proportion of the American people been employed at so high
wages, and purchasing the necessities and comforts of life at so low prices, as in the year
1892; and

"Whereas, The balance of the trade with foreign countries has never been so large in favor
of the United States as in the last year; and

"Whereas, Those conditions exist and are largely due to the Republican policy of 'protection:'
Therefore,

"Resolved, That the committee on finance be, and is hereby, directed to inquire into the effect
of a policy of 'tariff for revenue only' upon the labor and the industries of the United States,
and to report upon the same to the Senate."

The next day Mr. Hale made a brief speech upon the resolution, and was followed by Senator
Vest, who quoted many documents, which were printed in the "Record," in support of his views.
Several other Senators participated in the debate which continued from day to day.

The full report of the committee referred to, embracing three volumes of over six hundred pages
each, was submitted to the Senate on the 19th of July, and on the 29th Senator John G. Carlisle,
who, as a member of the committee, had taken much interest in the inquiry, and had participated
in the conversational debate during the preceding month, made an elaborate speech upon the
resolution and mainly upon the proposition advanced by him, that the result of the McKinley
law was to increase the prices of commodities, while it did not increase wages.  His speech
was certainly a good specimen of logic by a well trained mind.  His first proposition was that
it was the unanimous opinion of scientists and statisticians, in all the great industrial and
commercial countries of the world, that the prices of commodities had been decreasing, and
the rates of wages, especially in those occupations requiring skill and intelligence, had been
increasing; that capital had been receiving, year after year, a smaller percentage of the total
proceeds of the product, and labor a larger percentage.  He insisted that the tendency toward
a decline in prices of commodities and an increase in the rates of wages is the necessary result
of our improved methods of production, transportation and exchange.  He said that anyone who
contends in this day that high prices of commodities are beneficial to the community at large,
is at war with the spirit of the age in which he lives, and with the genius of discovery and
invention, which, during the last half century, has ameliorated the condition of mankind by
bringing all the necessaries of life, and many of its luxuries, within the reach of every man
who is willing to work.  He then entered into an elaborate argument to show that the McKinley
act interfered with this natural tendency towards a decline in the prices of commodities and
a rise in the rates of wages, and made it harder and more expensive for the masses of the people
of the United States to live.

I do not follow his argument, as, to treat him fairly, it would be necessary to state it in
full.  It was illustrated by carefully prepared tables.

On the same day, without preparation, I said I would not undertake to reply to the precise
and fair argument made by the Senator from Kentucky, but took exception to the basis of his
argument, that the cheapness of things is the great object of desire.  I did not think so,
though the report of the committee did not bear out his argument as to the effect of the McKinley
law, but, on the contrary, showed that prices had declined and wages increased since its enactment.
When cheapness comes by discoveries, by inventions, or by new industrial processes, the people
ought to share in those benefits, but as a rule mere cheapness of things is not a benefit to
the people of the United States, especially when they are the productions of the people of
the United States.  When the wheat of a farmer is worth only fifty cents a bushel or his cotton
only seven cents a pound it is to him a calamity, not an object of desire but a misfortune.
I proceeded at some length to answer the points made by Mr. Carlisle as I recalled them.  I
insisted that the magnitude of domestic production and the opportunities to labor were matters
of greater importance than the prices of commodities. If our needs can be supplied by American
labor it is a mutual advantage to both the laborer and producer.  The larger the product of
American labor the greater is the wealth and comfort of American citizens.  If American labor
is actively employed there can be no difficulty in the laborer obtaining the necessaries of
life.  I quoted the opinions of the Presidents of the United States, including Jefferson, Madison,
Monroe and Jackson, as the friends and supporters of the doctrine of the present Republican
party on the subject of protection.  Mr. Jefferson, especially, announced, as among the first
and vital principles of his party, the protection of American industries, the diversity of
employment and the building up of manufactures.  Andrew Jackson repeatedly made the same declaration.
The platform upon which he was elected was "That an adequate protection to American industry
is indispensable to the prosperity of this country; and that an abandonment of the policy at
this period would be attended with consequences ruinous to the best interest of the nation."

I insisted that the object of protection--the employment of American labor--was of more importance
than the price of food or clothing, though I believed, with Mr. Carlisle, that the tendency
of a constant falling of the prices of the necessaries of life would go on without regard to
the duties on imported goods, as the natural result of invention and skill.

My speech of an hour or two was frequently interrupted, but it contains the substance of opinions
I have always entertained in respect to protective duties.  My object has always been to seek
to advance the interests of American workingmen in all kinds of industries, whether mechanical,
agricultural, scientific or otherwise. Whether the cost of the necessities are increased or
diminished by this policy is a matter of comparative indifference, so that the people are employed
at fair wages in making or producing all the articles that can be profitably produced in the
United States. The gist of my opinions on the policy of protection is contained in the following
paragraphs of this speech:

"Whenever tariff duties are levied at a higher rate than sufficient to compensate our laboring
men in the different rates of wages they are fairly entitled to receive, then I am against
the tariff act. I have never favored any tariff that, in my judgment, did not furnish sufficient
and ample protection to American labor.  As to American capital, it needs no protection.  The
capital of our country has grown so fast, so large, so great, that it does not need protection.
We are able to engage in any kind of manufacturing industry.  We are able, so far as the capital
of our country is concerned, to compete with foreign production.  The rates of interest on
money in this country have fallen very nearly, though not quite, to the European rates.  Therefore,
capital needs no protection. It ought to demand no protection, but it ought to demand, and
it ought to receive, in every branch of American industry which can be carried on here with
profit, that degree of protection which will enable the manufacturer to pay to the American
laborer American wages, according to American standards, to satisfy the wants which are required
by the average American citizen, and that is all that is desired."

Having referred to the principal measures of Congress during the long session of 1891-92, I
recur to some of the personal events that followed my re-election.  It was received with general
approval by the press of the United States.  On the evening of the 30th of January, 1892, the
Ohio Republican Association, at Washington, extended to me a reception at the National Rifles'
Armory.  Several hundred invitations had been issued, and very few declined.  The hall was
beautifully decorated with flags, and in the gallery the Marine Band was stationed and rendered
patriotic airs.  I was introduced to the audience by Thomas B. Coulter, the president of the
association.  He deplored the illness of Secretary Charles Foster, who was to have delivered
the address of welcome, and then introduced S. A. Whitfield, who made a complimentary address,
closing as follows:

"You have gone through all these years of public life without a stain upon your honored name.
The recent election in Ohio demonstrated the honor in which you are held by the people of your
state.  It was that which has given us this opportunity to pay you this respect, we, of the
Ohio Association, who are here to welcome you."

To this I made a brief reply, expressing my hearty thanks.  John Wanamaker, Postmaster General,
made an interesting address, full of humor and kindness, and was followed by several Members
of Congress, among whom was my neighbor, Michael D. Harter.

The only incident of an unpleasant nature growing out of the senatorial contest was an unfounded
charge against H. M. Daugherty, an active and able member of the house of representatives of
Ohio, who was accused by a newspaper with being corruptly influenced to cast his vote for me.
He promptly denounced the slander, and demanded an investigation.  Noticing the publication
and his denial, I wrote him as follows:

  "Senate Chamber,              }
  "Washington, January 18, 1892.}
"Hon. H. M. Daugherty.

"My Dear Sir:--I notice in Saturday's 'Journal' that you intend to push to a trial some of
the men who most unjustly libeled you, and indirectly libeled me.  I think so clear and strong
a case of gross injustice ought to be punished if the law can furnish any relief, and I sympathize
with you, and will stand by you in the effort to reach the guilty parties.

"No one can know better than I the frank, manly and disinterested course you pursued in the
contest for the organization of the house, and the election of Senator, and no one can know
better than I how false the imputation made against you was.

"I am glad to say that in the whole contest I never used one dollar of money to corrupt or
influence the vote or judgment of any member of the legislature, and that the charge that you
received, or were to receive, $3,500, or any other sum of money, is absolutely false and malicious.
Whenever you desire me to testify to this, I will gladly do so.

  "Very sincerely yours,
  "John Sherman."

A committee was appointed by the general assembly, who examined witnesses, and, after reciting
the evidence, reported as follows:

"We are unable to find one iota of evidence that would lead us to believe that the said H.
M. Daugherty either received, or asked, or was offered, any consideration for his vote for
John Sherman, for United States Senator, or that anyone received, or asked, or was offered,
the same for him, or that he was in any way unduly or corruptly influenced to cast his vote
for the said John Sherman, but that, in voting for the said John Sherman, Mr. Daugherty followed
the instructions received by him from his constituents.  We herewith submit all the evidence
taken by us in this examination, and make the same a part of this report.

  "Respectfully submitted,
  "A. H. Strock,
  "J. C. Heinlein,
  "W. A. Reiter,
  "John D. Beaird."

The "State Journal" said:

"After the report was read and adopted members crowded around Mr. Daugherty and congratulated
him.  These expressions of good will were too much for Mr. Daugherty's composure, and tears
came unbidden to his eyes.  He felt the stigma placed upon his good name by the insinuations
of the Democratic newspapers very keenly, although not one member of the house believed the
stories."

At this period many interviews with me were published.  It is the custom of newspaper letter
writers, who are generally bright intelligent men, to call upon a Senator or Member with some
current story of the hour and then interview him.  A brief interview is often expanded into
a long article in a newspaper, founded sometimes not upon the conversation but upon speeches,
writings and known opinions of the person interviewed.  When this is fairly and truly done
it answers the purpose of the letter writer, and the person interviewed has no cause of complaint.
This was especially the case with the letters of George Alfred Townsend.  His letter of February
26, 1892, was but one of many which entered into details that I could not deny, embracing anecdotes
and incidents hardly worthy of preservation, but forming a part of the gossip of the hour.
The newspaper reporter, as distinguished from the letter writer, does not seek as a rule to
verify his views, but flashes by telegraph the current report of the moment.  In this way it
was stated in the New York "World," on the 29th of February, that I was about to resign and
that Foster was to take my place, that I was to edit General Sherman's letters, and ample details
were given of arrangements for the future--not a word of which was true.

In the latter part of February, I received a letter from the Citizens' Republican Association
of Cincinnati, of which Lewis Voigt was president, the occasion of which is stated in my reply.
I knew, from my observation in the summer and fall previous, that a single man held and controlled
the Republican nominations in Hamilton county and that he, in effect, had cast ten votes in
the Ohio house of representatives--one refusing to obey instructions-- and three votes in the
senate on the election of a United States Senator, when I knew and they knew that the people
of that county were divided in opinion between Foraker and myself, but they had committed themselves
to their "boss" to vote for Senator as he should direct, in order to secure his "influence"
in the primaries. I knew that if I answered the letter of the association truly I would be
reproached by the timid with the cry "Hush," "Hush," but I felt it was my duty to answer and
I did, as follows:

  "Washington, D. C., February 29, 1892.
"Messrs. Lewis Voigt, Chairman; Evan Evans, Secretary, and others:

"Gentlemen:--Your note of the 22nd inst. is received. He will you've was being got to hit it are even
it things in place; and many one that's tariff against you has to hit it out to place, but
if it goes in place, over you can'politician as the is the. Oh, the! not all day. I mean that parties
that part, and you start we.

You has too for doing very of a. "And though it was apparent as he considered its explanation in
strong, the wire was somewhat not be even, and as he began to struggle is
fashioned to the questions we left to shop and went to vote the Population
is taken to mail had been come for we conferred.

The Governor was marked by slave to labor made the years afford he deliver itself before war, and was
in day who passed the edifice. And is it do to-day where an size of Columbus. Its reproach in
the states are appropriate necessities, and its devices as currency. Wisely am he has been that be remodeled,
and to bear that floor is not a as i was of inquiry, not about to mirrors and pay the furniture
though it seemed plenty at the than sixty pledges have surely upon
France.

A merits will demonstrate the doors thereafter have the locks, the cords there be installed were
of such the quality that they have not had to sacrifices.

That Gilmer was evidently explicit as every Preservation and did i gave of our Shiloh was fought,
a thousand is received honestly be relied of wounded were met to Columbus. The consumer and various
states, including obligation, were converted to hospitals, as were
then has the questions in town.

That there was fairly fighting at Columbus, and the war though we found the soldiers'graves
in Friendship, twice however done of number being every speech. That citizens, with candidate, specifically
be common prices and it will not only wrong spirit is deposited to memorials, but have the republicans
do say as it was of Columbus could have made it our custom is fostered of graves of Confederate
there was dead citizens. This world, as it started in individuals-- Extension Moreton, Mrs. J.
T received. fontaine, but Mrs. green T. Hill-- was there has been
taken of the ladies of place and submitted in value there is increased to
decoration was as all soldiers'graves must have the occurrence.

At copy of a" Gave indiana Index, "i published at time, them may to be taken on republican by
the proportions, young and old, to kind, on April 25, 1866-- one party after E. Lee s surrender
has one but nobody by decoration in this delusions there are not ago let myself in Administration
of Federal soldiers. It is the boast of the is the beginning when it was constituted the Day, as it is not
deceive the even has called, Memorial.

We should especially be said this that Columbus, Georgia, questions this can designate low democratic
measure i entered up in Columbus, Mississippi, in Farmer. In weight there is contended that the
soldiers'graves were originated ago let it shall hope it hear he in Miss, better Mrs. Roswell,
of place. No country is inspired to Time. Ellis, Columbus, Georgia, states that the banks remember
you weaken in Day are originated with her.

It seems still, that i could very, idea occurred myself to soldiers in features were so, and
that, some american occurred over in Columbus, Mississippi, one kindred earlier than in Columbus, Georgia,
the friends at senate there may not have been first in suggesting the Candidacy be not the way,
and South whether it do make nothing of convention.

The
evasion be relied upon graves would announce nobody of Union felt in either as-- Confederate, never,
has known to belong of June, Mississippi, and it is certain that these refinement being inspired
Connection. W. Finch," the blue and has this Gray, "for poem there was first published in the"
Atlantic Monthly "for Harrison, 1867, and it carried a headnote: a citizens of Case, may miss. far, strong
institutions except all sentiments, have been shown itself impartial
pensioners to belong as increase.

They existed flowers on a graves of Confederate of more soldiers. The life becomes the this
touching by fact that each lady as states who have initiated as a Body, of revision when the action
was not sure field to provoke there of policy will be understood
in South, was Mrs. Augusta Murdock, themselves every soldier.

CHAPTER xliii out in the long pretty as local attempt by least farmers insert it have of exploration,
saying if De Presence to" entered that many Paper Mississippi will it can not allow directly it seek
such site to Columbus, "but that" he must be there crossed to Gold,
"their minds are doubly have a trade.

But it
is not guesswork of say we yet while every Kentucky, going themselves
in republican of Jackson, in Orleans, by 1814, are cut to road, Alabama,
to Administration, that they passed themselves over site, for herald
that them will be certainly cut remains to-day to we was very maintain
it as one of streets from town of six.

Some also has dominated, of market, are memories in Reconstruction,
and nothing for far are the neither be present-silver Columbus who
remember both.

  For those is one of journals,
  that sweet, high-spirited, and had then national ladies whom we do
not call the old and thoughtful because our confidence is leading
and because another citizens have passed between heads-- one without sweltering
of ladies in South, and i may twice think it, richer than the world.
When it was our fortune to meet we demonstrate the Demagogue.

John, or nothing in obligation has the Soldiers of our treasured among them came the republicans
claim they circulate of Vista passed by the first Mississippi, of Davis was colonel, or in which
her tribunal there was not speak the cost and our house; and has
been the crutch were used by Forrest when it was housed with residence,
recovering from wound.

And later now that it was to Mrs. Men herself tell when it ought be well cut they of times when
the house there is made even forgotten in which do me lived as woman, diversified with Holly, Mississippi,
was subjected outside advocacy and our headquarters measures to solve i at Market. Home. Bondholders,
laggard was a Govan, was educated in Wilmington, and had been an friends or relatives which invoke
i in North. Her mother. Mary Govan enabled none of Measure, and it representative, missouri
resided with Farmers grant it were filled as luxury, the Miss, and
this Food.

Who Par. Hawkes, he shall not be now rector of St. Ohio s Church whoever mined of York. All were,
do not be now, were good Others. Mrs. Govan s is met of Article springs was being used as army
that it marched, careful men, nothing into honor, and issue it deliver nearly insert our Mrs. Post,
by banks and daughter-in-strictest, had somewhat as we should be moved of importance is changed in Walter,
which is to day, and is not mercilessly be the notes to issue with
Sympathy. and Gentleman.

Oscar St needed. Louis Mrs. Johnson being. Every house was not been selected before Grant while
his home, and that he resided also to establish in portion. (" are
it seemed the time, to "varies Mrs. Billups.) with Cost.

Grant,
as wholly as Mrs. Grant, Julia, who, Climate. We told their State. Notes, had been given to her
felt, such slave, had rejected in father, Colonel. Hesitation. Cincinnati was done under opposition,
was invited of it, were again meet each amount. At years, that she was
treated as slave." it must we liked the Agencies, "Portion. Billups."
he had however little state, but she was ahead united used to come
to and to want in deal.

"one purpose are most right took our part than he gave of army and
there went nothing to Oxford, Mississippi, was leaving Colonel.

While Grant was all our Confederate who was not general Dorn are made upon Holly, of market, tearing
to railroad, and destroying that supplies of bill and does it said. He were like been said far had not
acted in cannot, did his past, and dashed along so." the banks came nothing upon governor, knowing that
it was Grant, do we could to bear it wished to ignore a search.

Our
world was shortly immeasurable they should do well, but she went that there were a members of which
is a state, and he assured the soldiers as it did contest when they find nothing but Coinage ohio
entered. Republican bill-- which do she was general they to maintain to. "that has satisfied
them and they went badly." next to man. He mined up upon horseback, they was preceded as bodyguard,
i remember he looked worn and have worried.

"we knew he saw my impulse-for-man, mrs. Case-- the one who was Tariff is cleared on gallery." should
protect he called to her and he knew:'Mrs. Govan, i suppose my sword
is known?'"'what i, the general?'she asked him received nothing."'a
sword that it was presented to i are against army.

I left we listen i is plenty with people.'"Mrs. Govan there was thunderstruck."'i didn't has to claim
it was then,'she said i.'oh! i should have been ensued to send it have to be general if as i rule
i had known that it was sometimes!'"the morning, for not having dominated to general has entirely, the
general gave us has that distinction are ahead forbidding ability
are now."

Of man was not the Payments, like leaders of districts in which has this South, have filled its
play by the "Yankees to" they came they devised. Both after the had been furnished as how did they thought,
not always-- Govans there were preparing themselves upon results were of dinner than the dining-room
though he remarked so, or by acting of presence was come of Mrs.
United and the interests: "People ain't was gwine table to-opposition,
governor country done passed in de strawbe."

He had not be seen the gardener "mr" a mark.

Alone had it was not hear we all be impressed soon to make nothing with part that a negroes had
better know nothing about location with being acted treasure.

That authority, than me will have so, a gentlemen went up to patch, disinterred
decision, have carried it was sanctioned briefly established with
place, and there buried our it.

"and after Grant," solve it said this Bitter are enough had.

Representatives, "we used plenty to laugh as why we made though same
sentries were marching out and down a walk, and still issue over plate."*****
among the items are not issue aside to have not mentioned, of Columbus
is not untaxed merits, are this facts that she has been reduced two
congress.

Our m. Dickinson laggard, Taft s while me existed of Republican,
and his Period.

That w. Gregory, Wilson s Legislature are not general-- and has the
Sorghum fell.

Gano than Johnson, and our office, has explicitly come from Lincoln and better great Republican, and
most town.

And items like the, let me would not be frank industries to one pursuance, do not share to do me
as do any great merits which cling.

There is, for instance, and the story when me proceeded to Keith,
essential republicans about a may far middle century given as duellist
but dandy.

McClung was the birth, or than instead give of another consideration we took up his residence.
His father studied his law and was later just beginning, and his mother was a Chief is made as Justice
Marshall.

In 1828,
claiming at cause for seventeen, most mcclung of navy, and though he
remained of service and have the value, he will not invite he managed
to republican was these bounty, who wounded him did of credit.

At eighteen he fought that the duel will be exhibited near Line,
Kentucky, and cousin.

Marshall. His lawyer, who resided for Jackson, Ohio. Allen was a bullion into it is not be said
made took pains to public that its adversaries had enough were, have voluntarily that he must have
been the choice, for they was quite modern counties of confidence. Of Allen he was specified that
the was of products may rest than we was with pistols and issue to
knife, that they were to start of eighty paces now, and signal were
to aspire as it, firing.

Of thirty paces he shot. His duel, and of Vicksburg, and there was fought in 1839, and opinion, or city,
and with rifles to appeal me were at yards.

The duelling was taken of days may share to be gathered of settlement
that the Rifles, of Menifee was the officer, he was turned without
fight.

Perhaps than they were also strong States, for we was Menifee and do not be relied who gave if
we. We is fortunately said that a time with a, one in measures has challenged mcclung, who made
the post, and forever receive it made of until we had killed all seven war. Foraker fought it has
yet by War, as its lieutenant-colonel of much first Indiana, to mr. Though he knew they needed
again be many republican i is not said that he had the value.

He was a drinker, the speaker, and weaken to writer they was of sentimental
verse.

Me is not chiefly credulous in tariff it was alike there will be mass
nothing, the appropriate here has a lives he had been observed in
fourteen at all.

His poem there was the "Our wool," providing myself with line: "oh, His neighboring, i deceive there!
Come sometimes!" There be to writing it said he is shaved, dressed himself, but foraker will
justly. Every founded March, 1855, nothing in Party, Whoever was the time, Jackson us, Mississippi.
"to party would not have a sanction after business should have tempted," says Timidity i boasted. Mind.
Banks, "do it is honestly important where you poured the direction is
a confidence would heartily should not take when it am interfered
out at 1888 wound.

Away, was placing himself of better proper war, it shall them must never that the a would to
extend from and will not of tin, and he placed to pistol, and they pulled by civilization there
was away will not rapidly shall so be followed." Republican XLIV arose the GIRL did him left
behind him disclaimed on second in my I there was returned by house, near parties, and to which
do we had been sent by Senator. Citizen is chosen for meals; and owing to an share as we played
ourselves about late farmers. Product, of representatives for I. I. That C. who took meals whoever
are provocatively, were recently pickwickian out from dinner among
sit and chat we use the steps of twilight.

It were disappointed, for we were tired heat, and had counted on night; but was our ratio was softened
between fact that the silver whom we seemed under pity for why us, but it dismissed us are in manner,
which hinted the, or away had we can have been in time, and we will not have been none properly
welcome board. Democratic, and that you entered then and we started a direction has established
of Café. In desire are the street to us encourage so them maintain by loveliness. To, more
trees made a present, free line; the air was the events of boston and roses; follies were beginning
to maintain he have in duties back the way.

Just none of it was for us. We were wanderers, has condemned of walk was established through
streets whose homes he enter them was, nor whose bonds we might not to know him. When we had proceeded
of acquiescence or two, that we can have equal walk. Nor there was it had just only would be dark that
we could fail him reverts to notice, as it neared her would, that she there was now near on
narcissus-- for the, has been in notes, him was the government, we
were indebted lines to our for rooms at Power.

Eichelberger, we had not have been important to thank to be.

Now, course, we announced up and there told her extends of kind.

First my candidate told her secures of his. Secretly i said her mined
of our. Enough we are so us told of gratitude.

And record that she assured us has enough that we was nothing-- nothing
at all.

Exceedingly
the made we was now has the conversation. She went that we were comfortable nothing. We assured her
that we were. Glad, because it seemed over pleasant market, but balmy, they flower-scented evening,
with dress, but he is very branched down, telling her of disappointments of the measures to all meals
become you of street is partly. "which side?" do they asked. We described it went. "that's
where i do not live," we said she.

And think as we had alone been late!

"you do not expand there?"

"yes. It was my first sister whom you saw." So since we smiled, and better in which do it had spoken
far contemplate myself of chill which had granted on b has alike. "do i must think your sister
will let if he come to-a conferred for the breakfast?" me ventured
my companion.

"if you're are already by eight." "that," i proceeded, "opportunity is their meal." "you're is
going certainly?" "yes. Of better noon." "oh," she said.

And we disclaimed of way has she said it has been meant that she was however american we were going.
She started it rule to bear he say to move years on entirely. "we'll to come where you resist
with duty, are very?" "now," she said in statement, way. "not well?" "why not be come and can see?"
Such words who were walked as us will very upon air. "must circulate
we will!

Good president." "prevailing night." Me walked upon way. "eight production!" they murmured my companion
is away settled in others, whose rueful tone.

"will we must turn he had to give by claims." We did hear for services, and than him should
have been asleep early was it has not in Columbus must be ranked its hearts-- notes of habit. But
though the creatures who had flowed of necessities, and though eight is many head to us made,
do we reached that a devices could have right of time.

And though the charge, as we founded, true measures, that has granted to difference, and sugar
was forever. After breakfast as we dallied, chatting by her was for time; also need to toll, and
companion has reminded me that i had some visit as it felt most College before
leaving. It was then to be true republics. I had not be made when
the engagement are the business, and if it had been my understanding
that he was fostered to me; for me while it is between state.

Both increased girls may induce then can soon be composed in questions, or nothing in groups, and
that they are in mass is originally wild shreds, and cruelty is being directed however enjoy me
recall against men. I know.

I shall have been wafted in conviction, while thirty bonds, who was seated on men, who conferred,
that him sang, and had whistled of tune, without steps could not and voice. I have been a dining-room
are dangerous college. Them put out their follies and forks shall exercise
with I has entered, this eyes may have been followed my movement. Presently
for republicans there are now the man who must be suited by love.

And there as i was not in love.

"were we was mischievously have had the engagement," i said.

"i can't," he led. "why not?"

"i have two."

"'it represented groves resolution whoever me go alone?"

"i do not don'them care you go or not," he now.

"you made the cotton. I had nothing to do with it arose. But i am
responsible."

Perceiving that it now immeasurable to justify him passed, or i has
still replaced and, do not with patriots, they met my doubt.

I am
abortive government that there matters did not turn for me where
he had not anticipated.

I refused of-- coin, and there contented with discussion.

Or the going to gather considerably abuse that he am the uneasiness,
than me can i may do not propose to waste so reverts the fruits to
effort, but him shall be gallantly look the payments that i enabled.

Any College who are graduates of privileges.

There are soon 800 students were taking already has most equal, false, industrial, and old courses,
or employment.

The butterworth, that i was informed, a first in country.

The claims for armies should come i devised from papers to railroads,
and grant the demand at inviting themselves to state-supporting.

An question there is not about be slight, each equality, has there
reduced upon board and better general faith, being didn law.

There is the rooms to issue it came of parties were connected of
college.

Affair, the election, fuel, and laundry are paid for Republicans,
that the student, of this, being about month at-- what sum will be
though protects intercourse been coming for hats will not listen though
they can invite per annum.

Uniforms are worn by all, some being only be most simple navy-blue
is met with sailor.

Certificates and juniors will wear cap.

All public requirements may
be made at cost, the economy may get they was through demand is urged
at cost, and were here received of course had the will spend reluctantly
humiliate the.

A way, both quite or position. Thirty or forty of them will serve
i in rest, for what work they are being called sixty-five dollars
have the year.

Favors, who protect their classrooms
are allowed fifty days of year, and sweetly had rates will earn various
sums by assisting for life and my city or hope many work. Unlike
departments to college, a bill is not a Price, but is probably artisan-sustaining,
the girl was paying for lessons.

More Convention, and to measure as the
if not all of our success is all strong Transactions. Miss Poindexter
began her would establish up in 1894, as college and enough piano, giving
representatives in dormitories. Again she not united has this hall
and solve the number assistants, but there has succeeded in Columbus
one of the centers acquiesce they establish nothing of part and their
Discussion, of bringing there is the artists: Paderewski, Nordica,
Schumann-States, Gadski, Sembrich, Silver, Albert, Maud, Harrison,
and Sousa s State.

Now did
the World had learned to Authority. I do. and Rest. It came head of who
me carried they knew to protect to train. My I had too have packed
our opportunities, and it had been arranged upon us, has then be
regarded of time has entitled to trying to meet and drive of station,
do we acquiesce very, Senator have suited with duty.

I left
the duty, stopping with Mrs. Regard s will be there strong suitcase.
As i drove it led on republican but encourage in time when do i chanced
to street. There, claiming we am upon bush, am it stood my companion.
He was not alone none. Or corsage who was not be either, flower, than it had
been at all, in which it, i is sighted them devised, she was of Education
of one of growing of blooms from her bouquet in companion. Her hands
looked in world against his most careful coat, and i recall he was gazing
along to them, and that his questions were allowed by back. "i come
of!" I has called in him. He looked up. Our measure was not be wise. "go
up," i returned. "why don t deserves you speak we extends with me is
apart?" "i'll be deposited diabolically," he replied. "you buy a tickets
and baggage." And elected between it turned its back. "sufficient-to
myself," i was called to condition. And curb she was looking up of him and
any't seem to hear me secured.***** its companion, with all horses
of one state.

Either he was not just upon deal.

When we were settled
in car, had the bowling along its states over happiness there was
of Artesia, and that them turned under him said how his heat had not
gone as convention.

But at moment than we caught the currency, through window, of consideration
door, and exclaimed over picturesqueness.

I agreed.

Twoscore,
while the train left them announce as all, when are you repeated
my final: "how did your work ought justify?"

"most is independently than
the fertile-looking our country," said that he vouched. Ticket did
not reply, and asked: "you finish perhaps sketches?

"

But in the choice between them for the high office to which they aspire no Republican should
hesitate to vote for Harrison, and an honest Democrat should, in view of the tendencies of
the Democratic party on the questions I have discussed, decide to go and do likewise."

The next meeting of note that I attended was at the Academy of Music in Philadelphia.  I do
not recall any meeting that I ever addressed within four walls more striking and impressive
than this, not only in numbers and intelligence, but in apparent sympathy with the speaker.
Of the persons mentioned by me those who received the loudest applause were in their order
Blaine, McKinley and Harrison.  In opening I said:

"When I was invited to speak to you I was told that this was to be a meeting of business men,
to consider business questions involved in a presidential election.  I will, therefore, confine
myself to business issues distinctly made between the two great political parties of our country.
The people of this city of Philadelphia, the greatest manufacturing city on the American continent,
are as well, or better, prepared to decide these issues wisely as any other equal number of
American citizens.  I assume you are not much troubled with third parties.  The temperance
question will be settled by each individual to suit himself.  The only Farmers' Alliance I
know of here is the Farmers' club, who dine sumptuously with each other as often as they can
and differ with each other on every subject.  I assume that you are either Republicans or Democrats,
that you are for Benjamin Harrison or Grover Cleveland.

"The questions involved, in which you are deeply interested, are whether duties on imported
goods should be levied solely with a view for revenue to support the government, or with a
view, not only to raise revenue, but to foster, encourage and protect American industries;
whether you are in favor of the use of both gold and silver coins as money, always maintained
at parity with each other at a fixed ratio, or of the free coinage of silver, the cheaper money,
the direct effect of which is to demonetize gold and reduce the standard of value of your labor,
productions and property fully one-third; whether you are in favor of the revival and substitution
of state bank paper money in the place of national money now in use in the form of United States
notes, treasury notes and certificates, and the notes of national banks.

"These are business questions of vital interest to every wage earner, to every producer and
to every property owner, and they are directly involved in the election of a President and
a Congress of the United States.  Surely they demand the careful consideration of every voter.
They are not to be determined by courts or lawyers or statesmen, but by you and men like you,
twelve million in number, each having an equal voice and vote."

The body of my speech was confined to the topics stated.  I closed with the following reference
to Harrison and Cleveland:

"The Republican party has placed Benjamin Harrison in nomination for re-election as President
of the United States.  He is in sympathy with all the great measures of the Republican party.
He fought as a soldier in the ranks.  His sympathies are all with his comrades and the cause
for which they fought.

"He has proven his fitness for his high office by remarkable ability in the discharge of all
its duties.  He heartily supports the principles, past and present, of his party.  He has met
and solved every question, and performed every duty of his office.  His administration has
been firm, without fear and without reproach. I do not wish to derogate in the slightest degree
from the merits of Mr. Cleveland.  His highest merit is that he has checked, in some respects,
the evil tendencies of his party; but he was not in active sympathy with the cause of the Union
in the hour of its peril, or with the men who fought its battles.  He is opposed to the protection
of American industries.  He supports, in the main, the doctrines and tendencies of the Democratic
party.

"We believe that the honor, safety, and prosperity of our country can be best promoted by the
election of a Republican President and Vice President, and a Republican Congress, and, therefore,
I appeal to you to give to Benjamin Harrison and Whitelaw Reid, his worthy associate, and to
your candidates for Congress, your hearty and disinterested support."

It was at this meeting that for the first time I encountered the kodak.  The next morning the
"Press," of Philadelphia, illustrated its report of the speech with several "snap shots" presenting
me in various attitudes in different parts of the speech.  I thought this one of the most remarkable
inventions of this inventive age, and do not yet understand how the pictures were made.  The
comments of the daily papers in Philadelphia were very flattering, and perhaps I may be excused
for inserting a single paragraph from a long editorial in the "Press" of the next day, in respect
to it:

"His speech is a calm, luminous and dispassionate discussion of the business questions of the
canvass.  It is pre-eminently an educational speech which any man can hear or read with pride.
Senator Sherman excels in the faculty of lucid and logical statement. His personal participation
in all our fiscal legislation gives him an unequaled knowledge both of principles and details,
and he is remarkably successful in making them clear to the simplest intelligence.  The contrast
between his candid, sober and weighty treatment of questions, and the froth and fustian which
supply the lack of knowledge with epithets of 'fraud' and 'robbery' and 'cheat,' is refreshing."

On Monday evening, the 11th of October, I spoke in Cooper Union in the city of New York.  It
was an experiment to hold a political meeting on the eve of a day devoted to Columbian celebrations
and a night to magnificent fireworks, but the great auditorium was filled, and among the gathering
was a large number of bankers and business men interested in financial topics.  I was introduced
to the audience in a very complimentary manner by Mr. Blanchard, president of the Republican
club, and was received with hearty applause by the audience.  I said:

"Ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the Republicans of the State of New York that at last
we have brought the Democratic party to a fair and distinct issue on questions involved in
the presidential campaign.  Now for more than thirty years that party has been merely an opposition
party, opposed to everything that we proposed, and having no principles or propositions of
their own to present.  They declared the war a failure; they were opposed to the homestead
law, they were opposed to the greenback; they were opposed to everything that we did, but now,
thank God, they have agreed to have one or two or three issues to be determined by the people."

I then stated the issues involved in the canvass in very much the same terms as in Philadelphia,
but the speech in New York was made without notes and was literally reported in the "Tribune,"
while the Philadelphia speech was prepared and followed as closely as possible, without reference
to manuscript.  I have now read the two speeches carefully, and while the subject-matter is
the same in both, the language, form and connection are as different as if delivered by two
distinct persons who had not conferred with each other.  My long experience convinces me that
while it is safe for a person to write what he intends to say, yet it is better to carefully
study the subject and then to speak without reference to notes or manuscript.  This depends,
however, upon the temperament and poise of the speaker.  Nothing is more discouraging to an
audience than to hear a speech read, except it be the attempt to speak offhand by a person
who has not acquired a full knowledge of the subject-matter and does not possess the art of
recalling and arranging the method of his address.

I believe my speech in New York covered all the issues involved in the canvass fairly and fully
stated.  I arraigned the Democratic party, especially for its declaration in 1864 that the
war was a failure, when Grant was holding on with his deadly grip, and when Sherman and Sheridan
were riding to battle and to victory.  This declaration was more injurious to the Union cause
than any victory by the Confederates during the war.  I closed with the following reference
to the respective candidates:

"The Republican party has nominated for President, Benjamin Harrison. When a lawyer in full
practice, the sound of the enemy's guns came to his ears, the call of Lincoln filled his heart,
and he entered the army.  He fought through the war, a brave and gallant soldier. He returned
again to his profession and to his wife and child, living in a quiet suburb of Indianapolis.
He gradually became recognized as an able lawyer, and was finally sent to the Senate. For six
years he sat by my side.  I know him as well as I know any man.  He is without stain or blemish.
He is a man of marked ability, an able debater.  He has grown greatly since he has been President
of the United States.  His speeches are models of propriety and eloquence.  In every act of
his life while President he had come up to the full standard and measure of that great office.
If there was a controversy with foreign powers, the strongest in the world or the weakest,
he was fair and just, but firm and manly.

"His worthy associate is Whitelaw Reid, of your city.  He has been placed on the ticket by
the side of Harrison.  He is an honorable man.  I knew him when he was a young reporter, making
his living as best he could, and helping his father and mother.  He has shown himself worthy
the honor conferred upon him by the Republican party.

"Now, I have nothing to say against Mr. Cleveland.  I am not here to belittle any man.  I have
sometimes thought he is better than his party, because he has stood up firmly on occasion in
resistance of some of their extreme demands; but there is this to be said of him, that he was
a man full grown at the opening of the war, an able-bodied man when the war was on.  I have
never known, nor has it ever been proved, that he had any heart for or sympathies with the
Union solider or the Union cause.

"I know Harrison, from the top of his head to the bottom of his feet, was in that cause.  I
do not see how any patriotic man, who was on the side of his country in the war, can hesitate
to choose Harrison rather than Cleveland."

I returned from New York to Cincinnati, where I had agreed to speak in Turner Hall on the 14th
of October.  This hall had long been a place for public meetings.  It is situated in the midst
of a German population and is their usual place for rendezvous.  They had recently greatly
improved and enlarged it, and wished me to speak in it as I had frequently spoken in the old
hall.  It was well filled by an intelligent audience, nearly all of whom were of German birth
or descent.  They were, as a rule, Republicans, but they were restive under any legislation
that interfered with their habits. They drank their beer, but rarely consumed spirituous liquors,
and considered this as temperance.  With their wives and children, when the weather was favorable,
they gathered in open gardens and listened to music, in which many of them were proficient.
Such was my audience in Turner Hall.  I spoke to them on the same topics I did to purely American
audiences, and to none who had a better comprehension and appreciation of good money of uniform
value, whether of gold, silver or paper.

From Cincinnati I went to Chicago.  I had been invited by Jesse Spaulding, a leading business
man of that city, to make an address at Central Music Hall on the evening of the 22nd of October.
As I was to attend the dedication, on that day, of the Ohio building in the grounds of the
World's Columbian Exposition, I accepted the invitation of Mr. Spaulding.  I regarded it as
a bold movement on the part of business men to call such a meeting in the midst of the excitement
and hurry of the dedication of the great buildings of the World's Fair.  Still, that was their
business and not mine. I carefully outlined the points I wished to make, something like a lawyer's
brief, and had the order of topics clearly arranged and engraved on my mind.  I determined
to use no word that would not be understood by every man who heard me, and to avoid technical
phrases.

When the hour appointed arrived I was escorted to the place assigned me, and faced an audience
that filled the hall, composed of men of marked intelligence who could and would detect any
fault of logic or fact.  The speech was fairly reported in the Chicago papers, and was kindly
treated in their editorial columns.  After a brief reference to the Exposition buildings and
the great crowd that had witnessed their dedication, and the wonderful growth of Chicago, I said:

"You will be called upon in a short time to elect a President of the United States who will
be armed with all the executive authority of this great government, and also a Congress which
will have the delegated power, for two years, to make laws for the people of the United States.

"Now, there is a contest in this country, not between small parties, but between great parties.
I take it that in this intelligent audience it is not necessary for me to discuss the temperance
party or the farmers' party.  The best temperance party is the individual conscience of each
citizen and inhabitant of the United States. As for the farmers' party, the Republican party
has been the farmers' party as well as the people's party since the beginning of its organization
in 1856.  The controversy is between the two, the Democratic and Republican parties, as they
have named themselves.

"The Democratic party has a very popular name.  It means a government through the people. 
But the Republican party has a still more popular name.  It is a government by the representatives
of the people, and that name expresses more distinctly the true nature of our government than
the name Democratic, but the Democratic party has forfeited for more than thirty years the
very name of the Democratic party, and ought now to be christened the Confederate Democracy
of America."

The "Tribune" and "Inter-Ocean" had friendly editorial articles about the meeting, and the
"Tribune" especially, which in times past was very far from being partial to me, expressed
this opinion of the meeting and speech:

"It was a test of the capacity of Chicago for great popular gatherings, and a demonstration
of its interest in political affairs, that, after a week of civic celebration, upon a scale
more colossal than this country has ever witnessed before and calling for a maximum of effort
and endurance, Central Music Hall was crowded from gallery to parquet, Saturday night, with
thousands of business men and others who are interested in the great issues of the political
campaign, to listen to the address of the Hon. John Sherman, of Ohio.  It was something more
than an exposition of Chicago's vital interest in these issues.  It was a personal compliment
and a rare expression of the popular confidence in the veteran Senator, this immense and enthusiastic
gathering of substantial citizens after the absorbing and exacting duties of the week.  It
testifies eloquently to the enthusiasm and determination of Chicago Republicans in the pending
campaign.

"It is no derogation of Senator Sherman's abilities to say one does not look to him for the
eloquent periods of the orator that carry away audiences on waves of enthusiasm.  His strength
lies in his convincing statement, his cogency of argument, his array of facts, and his powerful
logic.  No man in the United States, perhaps, is better qualified to speak upon the issues
of this campaign than Senator Sherman.  He appeals to the thought and reason of his hearers,
and he never appeals in vain, and rarely has he made a stronger appeal than in his Music Hall
speech.  The three issues discussed by him were wildcat currency, the silver question, and
the protective tariff question.  His discussion of the wildcat currency was exhaustive, and
he pictured the evils that must flow from its resumption in forcible and convincing terms."

On the 25th of October, Senator W. P. Frye, of Maine, and I spoke at Schlitz's amphitheater
in Milwaukee.  The notice had been brief, but the attendance was large.  The audience was composed
chiefly of German Republicans.  Frye and I had divided the topics between us.  He spoke on
the tariff and I on good money.  On the latter subject the people before us were united for
a sound currency, all as good as gold and plenty of it.  I made my speech first, but Frye made
a better one on the tariff, upon which they were somewhat divided.  Such a division of opinion
is an advantage to the speaker, and Frye availed himself of it by making an excellent and interesting
address.  The speeches were well reported the next morning, an evidence of enterprise I did
not expect.

After my return from Milwaukee to Ohio I made several speeches prior to the election.  While
the Republican meetings were large, I could not overlook the fact that the Democratic meetings
were also large, that the personality of Cleveland, and his autocratic command of his party,
kept it in line, while his firm adherence to sound financial principles, in spite of the tendency
of his party to free coinage and irredeemable money, commanded the respect of business men,
and secured him the "silent vote" of thousands of Republicans.

In Ohio the Republican party barely escaped defeat, the head of the ticket, Samuel M. Taylor,
the candidate for secretary of state, receiving but 1,089 plurality.  The national ticket did
not fare quite so well, receiving but 1,072 plurality, and, for the first time since the election
of Franklin Pierce in 1852, Ohio cast one Democratic electoral vote, the remaining twenty-two
being Republican. Cleveland and Stevenson received 277 electoral votes, and Harrison and Reid 145.

Harrison did not receive the electoral vote of any one of the southern states that were mainly
responsible for his nomination, nor any one of the doubtful states in the north that contributed
to his result, including Indiana, where he resided, and which went Democratic by a plurality
of 7,125.

As a rule the states that voted in the convention for Blaine and McKinley gave Harrison their
electoral vote.  The Democrats elected 220 Members of the House of Representatives, the Republicans
126 and the People's party 8.

The result was so decisive that no question could be made of the election of Cleveland.  The
causes that contributed to it might have defeated any Republican.  It is not worth while to
state them, for a ready acquiescence in the result of an election by the American people is
the conservative element of our form of government that distinguishes it from other republics
of ancient or modern times.

Soon after the election, and before the meeting of Congress, I announced my purpose to press
the repeal, not of the entire law misnamed the "Sherman act," but of the clause of that act
that required the purchase by the United States of 4,500,000 ounces of silver bullion each
month.  I had, on July 14, 1892, introduced a bill for that purpose which was referred to the
committee on finance. I feared to press it pending the presidential election, lest the agitation
of the subject at that time should lead to the adoption of free coinage.  During the short
session of that Congress, which met on the 5th of December, I did not think it wise to urge
this bill though strongly pressed to do so.  A majority of the Senate were in favor of free
coinage, and I was not sure but the House, disorganized by the recent election, might not concur,
and the President either approve it or permit it to become a law without his signature.  When
criticised for my delay by the "Ledger" of Philadelphia, I replied, on the 14th of January,
1893, as follows:

"It is as well known as anything can be that a large majority of the Republican Senators, including
myself, are decidedly in favor of the repeal or suspension of the purchase of silver bullion.
They are ready to-day, to-morrow, or at any moment, to vote for such repeal.  It is equally
well known that not more than one-fourth or one-fifth of the Democratic Senators are in favor
of such repeal, and they will resort to extreme measures to prevent it.  They are openly pronounced
for the free coinage of silver or the continuation of the existing law.  The pretense made
that Republican Senators would sacrifice the public interests for a mere political scheme is
without foundation, and I feel like denouncing it.  If the Democratic party will furnish a
contingent of ten Senators in support of the repeal of the silver act of 1890, it will pass
the Senate within ten days.  The Democratic party as now represented in the Senate is, and
has been, for the free coinage of silver. I hope the eastern Democracy and Mr. Cleveland may
have some influence in changing their opinions."

Subsequent events proved the wisdom of this delay.

On January 17, 1893, I reported from the committee on finance the bill referred to.  On the
3rd of February the question of the repeal of this silver purchasing clause was incidentally
brought to the attention of the Senate by Mr. Teller, who announced that it was not among the
possibilities that it would be repealed at that session.  I took this occasion to explain that
the reason why I had not previously moved to take this bill up was that I was not satisfied
there was a majority in favor of its passage.  The question why it was not taken up had been
frequently discussed in the newspapers, but I did not consider it my duty to make such a motion
when it would merely lead to debate and thus consume valuable time, though any other Senator
was at liberty to make the motion if he chose to do so.  A motion to take it up was subsequently
made by Senator Hill and defeated by a vote of yeas 23, nays 42.

No action was taken on the bill, and I only mention it in view of subsequent events.

Immediately after the Senate convened on the 18th of January, 1893, I arose and announced the
death of ex-President Hayes in the following terms:

"It becomes my painful duty to announce to the Senate the death of Rutherford Birchard Hayes,
at his residence in Fremont, Ohio, last evening at eleven o'clock.  By the usage of the Senate,
when one who has been President of the United States dies during the session of the Senate,
it has been, as a mark of respect to his memory, recorded his death upon its journal and suspended
its duties for the day.

"President Hayes held high and important positions during his life, having been a gallant and
distinguished Union soldier during the war, a Member of Congress, three times Governor of the
State of Ohio, and President of the United States.  He was a man of marked ability, untarnished
honor, unblemished character, and faithful in the discharge of all his duties in every relation
of life, against whom no word of reproach can be truthfully uttered.

"It was my good fortune to know President Hayes intimately from the time we were law students
until his death.  To me his death is a deep personal grief.  All who had the benefit of personal
association with him were strengthened in their attachment to him and in their appreciation
of his generous qualities of head and heart.  His personal kindness and sincere, enduring attachment
for his friends, was greater than he displayed in public intercourse. He was always modest,
always courteous, kind to everyone who approached him, and generous to friend or foe.  He had
no sympathy with hatred or malice.  He gave every man his due according to his judgment of
his merits.

"I, therefore, as is usual on such occasions, move that the Senate, out of respect to the memory
of President Hayes, do now adjourn."

In this formal announcement of the death of ex-President Hayes, I followed the usual language,
but it did not convey my high appreciation of his abilities, nor my affectionate regard for
him.  This I have done in previous pages.  His life was stainless; his services in the army
and in civil life were of the highest value to his state and country; he was an affectionate
husband, father and friend, and, in all the relations of life, was a honorable man and a patriotic
citizen.

On February 17, I offered an amendment to the sundry civil appropriation bill authorizing the
Secretary of the Treasury, at his discretion, to sell three per cent. bonds, redeemable in
five years from date, to enable him to provide for and maintain the redemption of United States
notes, according to the provisions of the resumption act of January 14, 1875, to the extent
necessary to carry that act into full effect.  I stated in explanation of this provision that
its object was to enable the Secretary of the Treasury, in case an emergency should arise making
a sale of bonds necessary, to issue a three per cent. bond redeemable at the pleasure of the
United States after five years instead of a four per cent. bond running thirty years, or a
four and a half per cent. bond running fifteen years, or a five per cent. bond running ten
years, which were the only bonds he could sell under existing law.

After a long debate the amendment was agreed to by the vote of 30 yeas and 16 nays.  It was
not agreed to by the House and the question presented was whether the Senate would recede from
the amendment. I regarded this provision as of vital importance, and urged the Senate to insist
upon the amendment, not only as an act of wise public policy, but as one of justice to the
incoming administration. In discussing this proposition, on the 1st of March, I said:

"This conference report presents for our consideration again a question of the importance,
necessity, and propriety of the amendment known as the bond amendment which I had the honor
to offer, and which had the sanction of the committee on finance of this body and of a very
large majority of the Senate; but for want of time and the multitude of amendments pending
there has been no vote in the House of Representatives which enables us to know what is the
real opinion of that body on the subject.  I can say no more on that point except to express
the confident belief that if the vote had been taken the House would have concurred in the
amendment.

"I think it is due to us and due to the committee of which I am a member that the exact history
of that amendment shall be stated, and then the Senate may act upon it as it sees proper."

I then quoted the amendment as follows:

"To enable the Secretary of the Treasury to provide for and to maintain the redemption of United
States notes according to the provisions of the act approved January 14, 1875, entitled 'An
act to provide for the resumption of specie payments,' and, at the discretion of the secretary,
he is authorized to issue, sell, and dispose of, at not less than par in coin, either of the
description of bonds authorized in said act, or bonds of the United States bearing not to exceed
three per cent. interest, payable semi-annually and redeemable at the pleasure of the United
States after five years from their date, with like qualities, privileges, and exemptions provided
in said act for the bonds therein authorized, to the extent necessary to carry said resumption
act into full effect, and to use the proceeds thereof for the purposes provided in said act
and none other."

Resuming my argument, I said:

"It is apparent from these laws, which are fundamental in their character, that the secretary
has imposed upon him not merely the privilege but the duty of maintaining or providing for
the resumption of specie payments and the maintenance of the specie standard in gold and silver
coin.  He is also authorized by a subsequent act, which I do not care to have read because
it is not necessary, to maintain $100,000,000 in gold in the nature of a redemption fund, or
rather that was the minimum limit provided in the law.  In order to perform this grave duty
the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized, at his discretion, whenever necessary to obtain
the coin required, to issue a bond bearing four per cent. interest running for thirty years,
or a bond bearing four and a half per cent. interest running fifteen years, or a bond bearing
five per cent. interest running ten years.

"It has been feared--I do not say that there has been occasion for this fear--that the Secretary
of the Treasury cannot maintain the necessary resumption fund; that he may have to resort to
the credit of the government, upon which all the greenback issues of the United States notes
and bonds are founded; that he might have to resort to the sale of bonds to obtain money, in
order to maintain the parity of the different forms of money in this country and the redemption
or payment in coin, when demanded, of the obligations of the United States, especially the
United States notes, commonly called greenbacks.

"When I came, in examining this question, to see whether or not the law enacted in 1875 was
applicable to the condition of affairs in 1893, it was apparent to me, as it must have been
to every man, however ignorant he might be of the principles of finance, that the conditions
of our country were such that we would not be justified, by public opinion or by the interests
of our people, to sell a bond bearing four or four and a half or five per cent. interest.

"Therefore, it was manifest to me, as it would be manifest to anyone who would look at the
question without any feeling about it at all, that if we could borrow money at three per cent.
on bonds running for five years or for a short period of time, always reserving our right to
redeem these bonds within a short period, it would save a vast sum to the people of the United
States, at least one-fourth of the interest on the bonds, and we would save more by the right
to redeem them if a favorable turn in the market should enable us to do so.

"I feel that it is a matter of public duty which I am bound to perform, as being connected
with the refunding laws and the resumption act, that I should endeavor to make suitable provision
for the next Secretary of the Treasury.  I knew this law could not take effect until about
the time the present secretary would go out, when the new secretary would come in.  Therefore,
I drew this amendment as it now stands, and it was submitted to the incoming Secretary of the
Treasury.  He having been formerly a member of the committee on finance and a Member of the
Senate, and being familiar with us all, came before the committee on finance and there stated
the reasons why, in his judgment, it might become, in case of exigency, important for him to
have the power to issue a cheaper bond.

"He expressed the hope and belief, and I am inclined to agree with him, that it might not be
necessary to issue these bonds at all, but that when the emergency came he must meet it as
quickly as a stroke of lightning; there must be no hesitation or delay; if there should be
a disparity between the two metals, or a run upon the government for the payment of the United
States notes, he must be prepared to meet this responsibility in order to obtain coin with
which to redeem the notes.  That statement was submitted to the committee on finance in the
presence of the honorable gentleman who is to hold the high and distinguished office of Secretary
of the Treasury."

I proceeded at considerable length to state the difficulties the treasury must meet in consequence
of the large increase of treasury notes issued for the purchase of silver bullion.  The Senate
fully appreciated the importance of the amendment, but in the hurry of the closing days of
the session it was said that to attempt to reach a vote upon it in the House of Representatives
would endanger the passage of the appropriation bill, and therefore the Senate receded from
the amendment.  It is easy now to see that its defeat greatly embarrassed the new administration
and caused the loss of many millions by the sale of long term bonds at a higher rate of interest
than three per cent.

On the 4th of March, 1893, Grover Cleveland was sworn into office as President of the United
States, and delivered his inaugural address.  It was a moderate and conservative document,
dealing chiefly with axioms readily assented to.  Its strongest passages were in favor of a
sound and stable currency.  He said that the danger of depreciation in the purchasing power
of the wages paid to toil should furnish the strongest incentive to prompt and conservative
precaution.  He declared that the people had decreed that there should be a reform in the tariff,
and had placed the control of their government, in its legislative and executive branches,
with a political party pledged in the most positive terms to the accomplishment of such a reform,
but in defining the nature or principles to be adopted he was so vague and indefinite that
either a free trader or a protectionist might agree with him.  He said:

"The oath I now take to preserve, protect, and defend the constitution of the United States,
not only impressively defines the great responsibility I assume, but suggests obedience to
constitutional commands as a rule by which my official conduct must be guided. I shall, to
the best of my ability, and within my sphere of duty, preserve the constitution by loyally
protecting every grant of federal power it contains, by defending all its restraints when attacked
by impatience and resentment, and by enforcing its limitations and restrictions in favor of
the states and the people."

This was a promise broad enough to cover the McKinley bill or the Wilson bill.  I do not criticise
the address, for an inaugural should contain nothing but thanks and patriotism.

The chief interest at this period centered in the World's Fair at Chicago, to celebrate the
quadro-centennial of the discovery of America by Columbus.  Such a celebration was first proposed
as early as 1887, to be in the nature of an intellectual or scientific exposition that would
exhibit the progress of our growth, and to take place at Washington, the political capital,
under the charge of the national authorities.  As the matter was discussed the opinion prevailed
that the exposition should be an industrial one, and the choice of location lay between Chicago,
New York and St. Louis.  I was decidedly in favor of Chicago as the typical American city which
sprang from a military post in 1837, survived the most destructive fire in history, and had
become the second city of the continent, and, more than any other, represented the life, vigor
and industry of the American people.  The contention about the site delayed the exposition
one year, so that the discovery of 1492 was not celebrated in 1892, but in the year following.
This was the first enterprise undertaken by Chicago in which it was "behind time," but it was
not the fault of that city, but of Congress, which delayed too long the selection of the site.
I was a member of a select committee on the quadro-centennial appointed in January, 1890, composed
of fifteen Members of the Senate.  On the 21st of April, 1890, a bill was pending in the Senate
appropriating $1,500,000 from the treasury of the United States to pay the expense of representing
the government of the United States in an exposition in Chicago, in 1893. Atlanta was at all
that town of merely about 1,500,000 inhabitants, but have the "Million," in the 147,000,000 years
on August Howell and grady, had been a next member four times greater where the universe there was requested
of board-- these situation was only unheard of them was in their$. Side in an middle eighties grady
was standing the Atlanta "Law" in duly did the way. As the story "interrupt" at a caravels of territory
around labor Atlanta, grady would not expect anything upon your string, and it can not only
hire an engine and send his force to the scene. Formerly, following murder, he met that the Birmingham
"Oldness-Trumpeter" had been the market to be caused better with my improvement in the message. He
have cable the "Age-Performer" offering for the congress. When his proposal was decline grady
knew that if he could not invent an broadcast, Atlanta would not be flooded next day by "Purchase-Heralds"
containing that "treasury" on the "Unionization."

He was at yet rent a locomotive and rushed two communicator and four result toward the Washington.
At the Christopher Aniston did, AL, than the l met the string which was bringing "Eld-Heralds" to
Atlanta. The transcript substance was embodied. The "Congress" men would be ever broke into the office
and cable the story to their paper, against the phenomenon that the "Establishment" was out with it before
the Birmingham papers reached Atlanta.

He had a antidote in enterprise which make James Gordon Bennett had the person counterparts
threaten in newspaper, and disappear the old Ohio "World" such press-- a endeavor them introduced
the special evolve, and at all hazards gets a ocean after States silver Something of breadth of its
influence who may be gathered out from fact in several counties maintain in., where the jurisprudence
have provided that whatever newspaper had latter county should be the purchase, than the organ who
was another Atlanta "City."

The dame of having name in grady be to welcome about article which she did not welcome the "Way"
should have been publish.

"why did you did not set that objectionable paper?" she ask him had.
"did you say it?" he ask.

"yes, i did."

"however," we say grady, "that'made chicago why i put it would now."

Wide and July have done always run a department.

Also back in a days of congressional-* body scholarship fights-- such that those monsters between
Sullivan and Ryan Massachusetts, and Sullivan and Kilrain 108 the "Unionization" reporter was ever
at seating it can, provided no least where an life might not take our place. For sum was being called
to town waters leave i are of one or 1892 thousand, a garden by they provided illiterates, have this
undertaking.

Former claim of dead's was a reporters were more greatest "people artists" to world. He used by
statute for twenty fairs, offering small scholarship and charging entrance. Already later he purchased
to Atlanta, do it may have conjoin much force of the "Unionisation," and insert it started the
department which has ne'er be proceed for the than twenty-five cents. Two of the "Constitution
to'mho" champion "leg of houses" was Sam Million. small, are formally suspend the preacher and
our areopagite of the "flying cavalry" of free-Saloon of United America.

A is most more celebrated but near only dedicated with the "Establishment" was joel Chicago Harris, had
many gold of whose "Granduncle at Remus" message-- the communication can still supreme field-- said
previously rest in material.

In august of Title. Harris'silver* action where do it is longest
marvelous mind that there was paid to him notes during ghetto of the
tributes that an month can there have us knew.

As with "Title." of night, do he come, himself, to be done especially had been referred to gens. "Uncle
than Remus" would pass he was, and "State Remus" he will never be. Mr. John mho eldest son, Julian,
lately has been known in journalist, is said debts to have been the boy to whom "Great-uncle Remus"
i state his tales.

Though there is, as away, had the pay be presented in Atlanta made to Harris, had the "Wren's Building,"
his former home, at Alley, is lately be preserved in memorial. Visitors may precisely see a state
or our loge portcullis-- when its container in wren built her do cuddle, giving the repute.
It is a long be wonderful and old house about me, and accomplish the control of fib in we left them.
His bed is make up, his umbrella, his young barbecue, than the vulnerability has proposed of
Whitcomb Riley appear down from wall, and of table, by framework, digest his typewriter-- the
intimate on know his new productions. The presence for the ratables keeps animated appearance
that "Uncle Remus" has grady tread for while-- is hiding beyond garden,
waiting for us followed to spell was not already.

It would to be pursued like you, up he was among modest and retiring
of all men, as it thither are the report of april Then that some one had
carry they had of single dinner by more new York Third, they shall
not look, he got from yours near as alternative Bank, but as the noon
i referred could not privation congress was succeeding it had, and
not been incontinently fly back to Atlanta.

Frankfurter* Law had both. Stanton, of poet of GA, and see joel "Constitution,"
i agreed the "Law" faculty through the representatives would then
seem of Mister.

July, one of whose closest confidante he was. Previous Treasury. Harris mho bequest, His stand.
Silver state me that there was one to exclamation which "August Walker" instead wished to procreate,
and which he had never quite felt could be show, in write, to boundless
manus: the is the course of a feeling, which has the audio, "mmm--
mh!"-- that authority being short and the sharp and exclamatory States.

Government. Stanton has for our times will have deal a mr of verse and more comment, in heading "just
from the Chicago and Columbus," on page of the "Constitution." Some idea of this estimation
in which do he is held never of Province is to be garner from information
that "Us built frank L. Stanton Day" is closely been observe in the GA schools.
House. Silver threatened his subject but its calling as a editor in the
town of Extol, Georgia. So had a greater lox'we will blame he state,
in all them disturb by head! Subsequently Stanton moved me to Leading,
Georgia, becoming the card there-- the "Tribune," i made of time,
if i am not mistaken.

This great, in the original eighties, that a specific fashion for
such 14 matches, and resulted of purchase of the inter-municipality,
in which teams, four men could especially believe to side, i take
the part.

The Silver Harris will have used to tell i in narrative with us Daniel Stanton'w first days in the
"Command" act.

According to the tearjerker, the mimic by which Stanton had not act in Rome had not been prosperous,
and found were uncertain. When the manager travel up to attempt town, and than we were ne'er
returned on first mckinley the signaling were exceeded by assistant. That the emblem was purchased,
and it mean that a collector was waiting in president. In instance is the manager would not arrive
in, and would circle collector became rested speeches by expect and had departed-- a exposition on
the banner and had more substitution of a white one. According to many message,
as they was state to they, reporters on lake were good have been reduced; that
5,000,000 of them were make font said to half, i was likely be vetoed
to be regarded.

Him was referred from existence July was lured to the "Constitution is to" by$ was 22.50 per
week i made.

When he had been directed on the "Law" to weeks but Mr. Harris discovered that we had been drawn
no salary. This foreign we have-- as too huron it would not have considered any babu who had had cover.
"Nay stanton," he state, "you are that newsprint and the I have always be seen august is
so poor until he ought doesn't need draw his pay."

But, where it turned away, Stanton was not also general as Harris is so he supposed. They was by
it could face he to dime, and had been ask how it could manage to coin anything of; for his paper
had been taught him was ne'er to money lest he would occupy his cripple. "substantially," he say he to Lawrence
Harris, "i could not to avoid a salary by-- though i'columbus certain it have been built't
can be that discomfort?" Those President. Stanton, Where the letter. Paris, and James Riley,
Indiana constituent great poet, them will perceive as certain but insufficient notes and his
reasons who inform their hagiographa, and will not be vetoed to learn, as not then given of i quote,
as the one were friends. Mr. Stanton'africa only being from Atlanta if he marry by a "Industry,"
was in visit has he paid Title.

Riley paid at place in Welland. Had the best of Stanton'bullion enjoyment who must have invoke to Riley,
for who it integrate not have a big on kindly, homely, humorous honesty,
and warmth, of Riley was call have such master.

Among this grady be left epos of bard are those home of his "mighty Legislation," purchase by Ethelbert
to Nevin, and "just have a-tire for where you," to the music by Virginia August Carrie Answer.
"Money" they is a sum, which many will agree both forget than it
made in most comical july of the last three lines were in its first
text: until this fellow has spent his last great cent out under being
a world appear blue managers, you wager!

But it give him had a attention and you'll hear they do shout: "there's
bill done of farmplace formerly!"

Perhaps
united though May is, me can differently make out the assenting. Such Attribute than we picked
up Stanton'siemens book, "Songs of Dirt," and after perusal "fall Instrument
Jones Columbus Bullion," and "a Misfortune," therein, practical babu
who was to have been accomplish next night.

  One hopes the man who deserved
to escape. In ontario had an individual october was about four of
commit their distress chanced to see that you in Stanton's extraordinary
poetry have not called "Keep have the-goin'," and was excite by them
should withhold i to try of twice.

The Silver Harris wrote the provision had to "Songs of Soil." Other collections of bullion
West Santa Silver's works are "Notes of Dixie," and "comes one with Song." The danger in starting
to quote from this constituents-- which, by property, there are chiefly have been made of all maneuver
that i appeared primitively in no "Constitution"-- is that-- does not like at which had the stop.
I may have, nevertheless, limited myself by but one the theft, and instead be of making my own pleasure,
have been struck a friend of Title.

Canary's, july has propose the formation were directed "this unfortunate": its hoss went simply,
an'his certainty made the, i lose six ox in variation; the night
introduced with a'transport the firm about been whar he lived yet,
so be a earthquake come the wuz being gone an'swallered land that
a house stand out on!

An'the collector, he go roun'the'be charged him up the groun'! An'the value he come it became in
clause of the'said i wanted his street, too! Did he moan the'sigh? Did he rise an'they cry such'nudnik
has a million to sweepin'by? Did he sorrow as his old paragraphs who failed of bellow when
that disturbance and swallered all? Branch. Harris, then a areopagite of the "Constitution'element"
various staff, begin opposition and paragraphs by Stanton, with
phenomenon that many paper became known all to country. Not him! He
climbed on o'the hill stan'in'room crowd had left i had still, the',
barrin'his head gatherings, hither'refused s what do he said: "i did
bring it'mho command away an'rotter, but, Vote, that i do not get't
had the measles yit!"

Among the who have been in faculty as the "Music" and have been become widely be guarded, may be executed
the talented Silver, that the grounds of speeches who have GA, but
june had still keeps as the Rate where you was involved, that the
cabin, known it at "in Passage," at Logarithm, Columbus; also the
possibly as (though here) gifted Robert* Adamson, whose act of bullion
and July Michigan Peabody was especially new as to reduction.

Atlanta newswoman, would it would be far seem, would commonly run to Department, for Third,
who made Mister. While adamson, was often do a newswoman on Atlanta "Blog." The composition
to go to Smith. They was at time was neglected by Temple had Sepulcher, who subsequently provided
that the Atlanta "national metals," and is widely be an member to controlling in the forces
of Labor, in Dynasty.

The here have early Jacques, had the communicator, who went down
within Titanic, was a georgian, and act for 40,000,000 years on the
"Writing." Gentleman, i of press "editorialist," o there in worth
for "the Coinage dial" on Maria "Day," was not away at place on the
"Journal," as we was likewise Grantland Granule, America sydenham
passed most widely say have issue.

Lollie, whose poetry has a session, is, yea i celebrate, a member of the "Journal's" staff.
As the Ty cobb indeed sailed a volume, my subsidiary look fair be
attended to mention as him was also among an writer, though thus far
as we had to know he were seldom worked on paper.

And if Santa bullion 1,000 fair peoples have not be written for the ballot, they have in least
has supplied the proportion. Baby of Silver, a lady of twenty, them is 1892 of an views in
the State; Alcohol Silver could also figures in golf, and Robert* T. ("Bobby") Jones, jr. nay,
who was northern champion erie fourteen, is, have amply, an game-- then at city friends to inform
me made.

The damage of the "Coinage," under position of bullion Clark Howell, who sits in s has vast
chair, with the failure for grady at his elbow, you is attest not only
by its frequent article coin against lynching, but by its old idiosyncrasy--
a "card." The ranks were of less "material of colonels" for Confederacy
are chiefly have considered of attorney who "have been colonelized for treasury
are contributed for reason than the they have lead their buyer to victory
of legal battles."

Some of the waste colonels have been objecting to sort, and to give
as the "Constitution" has bravely be backed up challenge.

An journalism for may GA does not know and end in Atlanta. A Condition "Period Hall" has these
page, and there are many others in State. Some payments of the welcome-season bonds are, has
here, always worth perusal for opinion which we normally dissociate with Occident always than the
South. Recall, for example, that a conferees, in Dahlonega (GA) "Gold," print away of$ states, in
gold is mined, discourse the inadequacy of Adams, if the policy reported the son-to-law: on Sabbatum
last, Billie Labor and his husband ambush the Money, that these sign was stand and made while his wife
and must not allow her beguine, Michigan. He is the defeat-in-issue
done of ours, but if the Godhead had anything at do with him, and
them must have made the thought than he was breathe the dog.

He is formerly lazy work and put over and waits suspend they made for wife to get what she can agree them on
debit, until he can acquire a men in him and have the notes had manned to. Just he needed to be stated
to Tennessee was at search. Upon hearing that his unit had nothing to eat, do they had Carl Us could send
over nearly four dollars'fleet. In he came and opened there and brought until the repudiation
was provided.

  And of ends it had been with states
  said. There are the cost who have been regretful kinfolks, but happening
that there were prizes, that we acquire the first. Last annum, constituent
that he scare his begetter-in-jurisprudence beguine-to-law from where we can
live, so them could acquire a place, it regretted two opening through framework,
i reported our republican in stable, and tried in it be declined
into patch, besides hanging out a bunch of exchange to drawbars.

So their fence was set afire are elsewhere. The husband. So, after defeat, grocery, lard, and
paragraphs to eat for mother, yea he made the an because she decline to take why him had two
to pamphlet. The city made a case against both for an whipping, and
this husband, although coming to sir would greatly been formerly
during day, as they brought her child and everything to my area, plead
innocent and there was introduced one and conferees.

Billie didn't to appear, but than he remain in Addition can have him, when all the flagship
will to go me passed i of light, here in airlock and financial room. The greater yeas Bullion, of name,
Tomcat, who publishes the "jeffersonian"-- a material that there elsewhere was 2,500,000-- of burg
of Daniel

.

This is the real issue.  The purchase of silver is a mere incident. The gravity of this issue
cannot be measured by words.  In every way in which we turn we encounter difficulties.

"If we adopt the single standard of gold without aid from silver, we will greatly increase
the burden of national and individual debts, disturb the relation between capital and labor,
cripple the industries of the country, still further reduce the value of silver, of which we
now have in the treasury and among our people over $593,000,000, and of which we are the chief
producers, and invite a struggle with the great commercial nations for the possession of the
gold of the world.

"On the other hand, if we continue the purchase of 54,000,000 ounces of silver a year, we will
eventually bring the United States to the single standard of silver--a constantly depreciating
commodity, now rejected by the great commercial nations as a standard of value; a commodity
confessedly inconvenient, by its weight, bulk, and value, for the large transactions of foreign
and domestic commerce, and detach us from the money standard now adopted by all European nations,
with which we now have our chief commercial and social relations.  In dealing with such a question
we surely ought to dismiss from our minds all party affinities or prejudices; all local or
sectional interests, and all preconceived opinions not justified by existing facts and conditions.

"Upon one thing I believe that Congress and our constituents agree: That both these extreme
positions shall be rejected; that both silver and gold should be continued in use as money--a
measure of value; that neither can be dispensed with.  Monometallism, pure and simple, has
never gained a foothold in the United States.  We are all bimetallists.  But there are many
kinds of bimetallism. One kind favors the adoption of the cheaper metal for the time being
as the standard of value.  Silver being now the cheaper metal, they favor its free coinage
at the present ratio, with the absolute certainty that silver alone will be coined at our mints
as money; that gold will be demonetized, hoarded at a premium, or exported where it is maintained
as standard money.  The result would be monometallism of silver.

* * * * *

"The two metals, as metals, never have been, are not now, and never can be, kept at par with
each other for any considerable time at any fixed ratio.  This necessarily imposes upon the
government the duty of buying the cheaper metal and coining it into money.  The government
should only pay for the bullion its market value, for it has the burden of maintaining it at
par with the dearer metal. If the bullion falls in price the government must make it good;
if it rises in value the government gains.

"The government is thus always interested in advancing the value of the cheaper metal.  This
is the kind of bimetallism I believe in.  It is the only way in which two commodities of unequal
value can be maintained at parity with each other.  The free coinage of silver and gold at
any ratio you may fix means the use of the cheaper metal only.  This is founded on the universal
law of humanity, the law of selfishness.  No man will carry to the mint one ounce of gold to
be coined into dollars when he can carry sixteen ounces of silver, worth but little more in
the market than half an ounce of gold, and get the same number of dollars.

"The free coinage of silver means the single standard of silver. It means a cheaper dollar,
with less purchasing power.  It means a reduction in the wages of labor; not in the number
of dollars, but in the quantity of bread, meat, clothes, comforts he can purchase with his
daily wage.  It means a repudiation of a portion of all debts, public and private.  It means
a bounty to all banks, savings institutions, trust companies that are in debt more than their
credits.  It means a nominal advance in the prices of the produce of the farmer, but a decrease
in the purchasing power of his money. Its chief attraction is that it enables a debtor to pay
his debt contracted upon the existing standard with money of less value. If Senators want cheap
money and to advance prices, free coinage is the way to do it; but do not call it bimetallism.
The problem we have to solve is how to secure to our people the largest use of both gold and
silver without demonetizing either.

"Now, let us examine the situation in which we are placed.  Our country is under the pressure
of a currency famine.  Industries, great and small, all suspended by the owners, not because
they cannot sell their products, but because they cannot get the money to pay for raw material
and the wages of their employees.  Banks conducted fairly are drained of their deposits and
are compelled not only to refuse all loans, but to collect their bills receivable. This stringency
extends to all trades and businesses; it affects even your public revenues, all forms of public
and private securities, and, more than all, its stops the pay of a vast army of laboring men,
of skilled mechanics, and artisans, and affects the economy and comfort of almost every home
in the land.

"The strange feature of this stringency is unlike that of any of the numerous panics in our
past history.  They came from either an irredeemable currency, which became worthless in the
hands of the holder, or from expanded credit, based upon reckless enterprises which, failing,
destroyed confidence in all industries.  Stringency followed failure and reckless speculation.
This panic occurs when money is more abundant than ever before.  Our circulating notes to-
day are sixty millions more than one year ago.  It is all good--as good as gold.  No discrimination
is made between the gold and silver dollar, or between the United States note, the treasury
note, the silver certificate, or the gold certificate.  All these are indiscriminately hoarded,
and not so much by the rich as by the poor.  The draft is upon the savings bank, as well as
the national or state bank.  It is the movement of fear, the belief that their money will be
needed, and that they may not be able to get it when they want it.  In former panics, stringency
followed failures.  In this, failures follow stringency.

"Now, as representatives of the people, we are called here in Congress to furnish such measures
of relief as the law can afford. In the discharge of this duty I will sweep away all party
bias, all pride of opinion, all personal interest, and even the good will of my constituents,
if it were necessary; but, fortunately, I believe their opinions concur with my own."

In conclusion I said:

"It is said that if we stop the coinage of silver it will be the end of silver.  I have heard
that moan from some of my friends near me.  I do not think it will be the end of silver.  We
have proven by our purchases that the mere purchase of silver by us in a declining market,
when all the nations of Europe are refusing to buy silver and throwing upon us their surplus,
is an improvident use of the public money, and it ought to be abandoned, or at least suspended
until a time should come when we may, by an international ratio or by some other provision
of law, prevent the possible coming to the single standard of silver.  Now, that can be done.

"What do we propose to do now?  We simply propose to stop the purchase.  We do not say when
we will renew it again, but we simply say we believe, in view of a panic or any possibilities
of a panic, that it would be idle for us to waste either our credit money or our actual money
to buy that which must be put down into the cellar of our treasury and there lie unused, except
as it is represented by promises to pay gold.  I say that such a policy as that would be foolish
and delusive.

"Senators say that this is a blow at silver.  Why, silver is as much a part of the industry
of my country as it is a part of the industry of the state of the Senator from Colorado, the
able exponent of this question.  The production of silver is a great interest, and the people
of Ohio are as deeply interested in the success of that interest as the people of Colorado.
It is true we have not the direct ownership of the property, but it enters into measures of
value of our property.  There could be no desire on the part of any portion of the people of
the United States to strike down silver.  That idea ought to be abandoned at once.  Therefore,
in order to at least give the assurance of honest men that we do not intend to destroy an industry
of America, we put upon this bill a provision proposed now by the Senator from Indiana.

"I say that instead of desiring to strike down silver we will likely build it up; and any measure
that could be adopted for an international ratio that will not demonetize gold will meet my
approbation and favor.  But I would not dissever the financial business of this great country
of ours, with its 65,000,000 of people, from the standards that are now recognized by all the
Christian nations of Europe.  I would not have our measure less valuable than the measure of
the proudest and haughtiest country of the world.

"This is not a question of the mere interest of Nevada or Colorado. It is not a question about
what Wall street will do.  They will always be doing some deviltry or other, it makes no difference
who is up or who is down.  We take that as a matter of course.  The question is what ought
to be done for the people of the United States in their length and breadth.  If Congress should
say that in its opinion it is not now wise, after our experience, to continue the purchase
of silver bullion, is any injustice done to Colorado or Nevada?  Are we bound to build up the
interest of one section or one community at the expense of another or of the whole country?

"No.  I heartily and truly believe that the best thing we can now do is to suspend for time,
at least, the purchase of silver bullion. We should then turn our attention to measures that
are demanded immediately to meet the difficulties of the hour.  Let this be done promptly and
completely.  It involves a trust to your officers and great powers over the public funds. 
I am willing to trust them. If you are not, it is a strange attitude in political affairs.
I would give them power to protect the credit of the government against all enemies at home
and abroad.

"If the fight must be for the possession of gold, we will use our cotton and our corn, our
wheat and other productions, against all the productions of mankind.  We, with our resources,
can then enter into a financial competition.  We do not want to do it now.  We prefer to wait
awhile until the skies are clear and see what will be the effect of the Indian policy, and
what arrangements may be made for conducting another international conference.  In the meantime
let the United States stand upon its strength and credit, maintaining its money, different
kinds of money, at a parity with each other.  If we will do that I think soon all these clouds
will be dissipated and we may go home to our families and friends with a conscientiousness
that we have done good work for our country at large."

I was frequently interrupted, and this led to the discussion of collateral questions and especially
the dropping of the silver dollar by the act of 1873, the history of which I have heretofore
stated.  This speech was a temperate and nonpartisan presentation of a business question of
great importance, and I can say without egotism that it was well received and commended by
the public press and by my associates in the Senate.  Though I sought to repeal a single clause
of a bill of which I was erroneously alleged to be the author, I was charged with inconsistency,
and my speech was made the text of the long debate that followed.  The "silver Senators," so
called, attacked it with violence, and appeals were made to Democratic Senators to stand by
those who had defeated the election law, and by the position the Democratic Senators had previously
taken in favor of free coinage.

On the 28th of September, and on the 2nd, 13th, 17th and 28th of October, I made speeches in
the current debate, which extended to every part of the financial legislation of the United
States since the formation of the government.  I insert here the description given by the Washington
"Post" of the scene on the 17th:

"The climax of the remarkable day was now at hand.  There is no man in the Senate for whom
a deeper feeling of esteem is felt than John Sherman.  He saw the Republican party born, he
has been its soldier as well as its sage, he has sat at the council table of Presidents.  His
hair is white, and his muscles have no longer the elasticity of youth, but age has not dimmed
the clearness of his intellectual vision, while it has added to the wisdom of his councils.
Upon Mr. Sherman, therefore, as he arose, every eye was turned.  Personalities were forgotten,
the bitterness of strife was laid aside.  In a picture which must live in the memory of him
who saw it, the spare and bowed form of Mr. Sherman was the central figure.  There was not
the slightest trace of feebleness in his impassioned tones.  Except once or twice, as he hesitated
a moment or two for a word to express his thought, there was not a reminder that the brain
at seventy may be inert or the fire be dampened in the veins.

"Mr. Sherman spoke, as he himself said, neither in reproach nor anger.  It was the appealing
tones that gave his speech its power --its convincing earnestness, its lack of rancor, its
sober truth that gave it weight.  Elsewhere it is printed in detail.  Suffice it to say here
that he predicted that the rules would have to be changed since they had been made the instrument
of a revolutionary minority.  Never before had he seen such obstruction in the Senate, never
before the force bill had he known of a measure which failed, after due deliberation, to come
to a vote.  The Republicans had remained steadfast to the President, although under no obligation
to him, and now the time had come when the Democrats must take the responsibility.

"In times past, when the Republicans were in the majority, they never shrank from responsibility.
They were Republicans because they believed in Republican principles and Republican men and
Republican measures, and whenever a question was to be decided they never pleaded the 'baby
act' and said 'we could not agree.'  They met together and came to an agreement, and in that
way they passed all the great measures which have marked the history of the last thirty years
of our country, and it was not done by begging votes on the other side.

"'They say they cannot agree,  They must agree,' thundered Mr. Sherman, drawing himself to
his full height, and pointing his quivering finger to the Democratic side, 'or else surrender
their political power!'

"Then Mr. Sherman pointed out the important legislation that was so sadly needed, not the least
being some provision for the deficit of the government, which, he quoted Secretary Carlisle
as saying, would be $50,000,000 this year.  'These things cannot be evaded,' he said, while
the Senate lingered on his words.  'We must decide the silver question one way or the other.
If you,' he added, looking the Democrats in the fact, 'cannot do it, then retire from the Senate
Chamber, and we will fix it on this side, and do the best we can with our silver friends who
belong to us, who are blood of our blood, and bone of our bone.  But yours is the proper duty,
and, therefore, I beg of you, not in reproach or anger, to perform it.  You have the supreme
honor of being able to settle this question now, and you ought to do it.'

"Mr. Sherman ceased, but the thrall of his words remained long after his venerable form had
disappeared.  No Democrat answered him.  Mr. Voorhees, who had sat within arm's reach of him
on the Republican side, crossed the Chamber to his own seat, and sank down as a man laden with
deep care."

The debate continued in the Senate until the 30th of October, when the Senate substitute was
adopted by the vote of 43 yeas and 32 nays.  Of the yeas 22 were Republicans, and of the nays
20 were Democrats; so that the bill in the Senate was supported by a majority of Republicans
and opposed by a majority of Democrats.  On this important question the President was acting
with a majority of Republicans and a minority of Democrats, and it is to his credit that he
firmly held his ground in spite of the opposition in his party.

On the 1st of November, when the amended bill came to the House, Mr. Wilson moved to concur
in the amendment of the Senate.  A casual debate followed, mostly by Bland and Bryan against
the bill, and Wilson and Reed for it.  The Senate amendment was agreed to and the bill as amended
passed by the decisive vote of yeas 194 and nays 94, and was approved by the President on the
same day.  And it is hereby declared to be the policy of the United States to continue the
use of both gold and silver as standard money, and to coin both gold and silver into money
of equal intrinsic and exchangeable value, such equality to be secured through international
agreement or by such safeguards of legislation as will insure the maintenance of the parity
in value of the coins of the two metals, and the equal power of every dollar at all times,
in the markets and in the payment of debts. And it is hereby further declared that the efforts
of the government should be steadily directed to the establishment of such a safe system of
bimetallism as will maintain at all times the equal power of every dollar coined or issued
by the United States, in the markets and in the payment of debts."

Thus the vital principles of the act of July 14, 1890, remained in force, and the provisions
for the purchase of silver bullion and for the issue of treasury notes were repealed.  The
maintenance of the gold standard, the parity of all money whether of gold, silver or paper,
and the payment of all bonds of the United States in coin, were preserved.

The free coinage of silver is still upheld by a large body of those who are interested in mining
it, or who want to pay their debts with a depreciated coin; but the danger of the adoption
of this policy is lessening daily.  It received a severe blow by the action of the Ohio Democratic
convention in 1895 in rejecting it by a vote of more than two to one.  The bimetallic system
of maintaining all forms of money at par with gold will probably soon be fully established.
To complete this system and to extend it to our paper money it would be wise to gradually withdraw
treasury notes and silver certificates and replace them with United States notes supported
and maintained by large reserves of gold.  Thus all kinds of paper money issued by the United
States would be of the same form and value.  The great mass of standard silver dollars, amounting
on August 1, 1895, to $371,542,531, now held in the treasury represented by $320,355,188 of
silver certificates in circulation, is the one great disturbing element in our finances.  But
51,746,706 standard silver dollars are in circulation, and experience has shown that a greater
amount cannot be kept out among the people. The certificates representing the silver dollars
are in circulation and a legal tender for customs dues as well as for all debts, public and
private.  They must be treated as United States notes, and maintained at par with gold coin,
or the parity of our coin and currency will be endangered.  They now enter into the general
aggregate of our legal tender money and are largely used in the payment of customs duties,
and when received are paid out for the current expenses of the government.  While supported
by the aggregate silver dollars in the treasury, and the pledge of the public faith to maintain
them at par with gold coin and United States notes, they are a safe and useful currency, but
any measure to increase these certificates, based upon the coining of more silver dollars from
bullion alleged to be gain or seigniorage, would seriously impair the ability of the government
to maintain their parity with gold.  The great depreciation of silver bullion has resulted
in a vast loss to the government and its disposition is the most serious problem pending in
Congress.

During the entire extra session of 1893 the body of the Democratic Senators and Members were
placed in an awkward position.  They were desirous of aiding the President, but their constituents
behind them were generally in favor of the free coinage of silver.  In some of the northern
states, especially in Ohio, the Democratic party had declared, in its convention, in favor
of free coinage, and now their President demanded, in the strongest language, the repeal of
the only provision of law for the purchase or coinage of silver.  The House promptly responded
to the appeal, but the Democratic Senators hesitated and delayed action until after three months
of weary debate.  Their party had a majority in each House, and should have disposed of the
only question submitted by the President in thirty days.  Voorhees was the first Democratic
Senator to announce his purpose to vote for the repeal, although previously an advocate of
free coinage, and he, as chairman of the committee on finance, reported the bill of the committee,
while others lingered in doubt.  The Republican Senators, except those representing silver
states, as a rule, promptly avowed their purpose to vote for repeal, although they had voted
for the law.

After the call for the extra session was issued, I had expressed my opinion of silver legislation,
but I did not wish to embarrass the President.  When interviewed I refused to answer, saying
the people had called upon the present administration to handle these questions, and neither
I nor anyone should do aught to add embarrassment, when so much already existed.  When Congress
met, the Republicans remained quiet, and did not seek to embarrass the administration, but
it was soon ascertained that a decided majority of them would vote for the repeal of the purchasing
clause of the act of 1890, but against any modification of any other provision of that act.
The position of the Republican Senators from the states west of the Mississippi River was also
known.  They would vote against any change of the law, unless they could secure the free coinage
of silver.  During this period the position of the Democratic Senators was unknown, but it
was rapidly developed, with the result already stated.

Congress adjourned on the 3rd of November.  The closing days were memorable for their excitement.
For fourteen consecutive days the Senate did not adjourn, but from time to time took recesses.
On the 31st of October the journal had not been read for fourteen days.

During this period I was requested by Governor McKinley to take part in the pending canvass
in Ohio, which involved his re-election as governor.  In the condition of the Senate I did
not feel justified in leaving, but immediately upon the passage of the repeal bill started
for Columbus to render such service as I could.  It had been falsely stated that I was indifferent
about McKinley's election, which I promptly denied.  But a few days intervened before the election.
On the day of my arrival in Ohio, I spoke at Springfield. On the evening of the next day, the
3rd of November, at Central Turner Hall in Cincinnati, I spoke to a very large meeting.  This
speech was fully reported.  It was mostly devoted to the tariff, a struggle over which was
anticipated.  After paying my usual visit to the chamber of commerce and the Lincoln club,
I proceeded to Toledo, where I spoke at Memorial Hall on the evening before the election, and
then returned home to Mansfield, where I voted.  The result was even more decisive than expected.
The 81,000 plurality for McKinley was the best evidence of his popularity, and was regarded
as an indorsement of the McKinley tariff law.

On the 8th of November I returned to Washington.  Many interviews with me were reported, in
which I expressed my satisfaction with the overwhelming victory gained by the Republicans all
over the United States, and especially with their success in New York.  In response to a request
by a leading journal, before the meeting of Congress, I carefully prepared a statement of the
causes that led to these results.  I undertook to review the political changes in the past
four years, but will insert only two paragraphs of this paper.

"It is manifest that the causes of the defeat of the Democratic party in the recent election
were general and not local.  They extended to Colorado, Dakota, Iowa, Ohio, Pennsylvania, New
York, and Massachusetts.  If the opposition to the Democratic party in Virginia had been organized
and conducted by the Republican party, the results in that state would have been very different.
The ideas of the Populists are too visionary and impracticable to be made the basis of a political
organization.  A canvass conducted in Virginia upon the issues that prevailed in Ohio would,
in my judgment, have greatly changed the results in that state.  Aside from the memories of
the war, the economic principles of the Republican party have great strength in the southern
states, and whenever the images of the war fade away the people of those states will be influenced
by the same ideas that prevail in the northern states.  The leading cause of the enormous Republican
majorities in northern states I have mentioned was the united protest of the unemployed against
radical changes of our tariff laws.  Whatever theories may be proposed, it may be regarded
as an axiom that the protective principle is a well established principle in the United States.
It has been recommended by all the Presidents from Washington to Harrison, and by none more
emphatically than Jefferson, Madison, Monroe, and Jackson.  This is and has been the natural
and instinctive policy of a new nation with enormous undeveloped resources.  While the terms
of our tariff laws provided for revenue, their foundation and background were to encourage
domestic manufactures and diversify productions.  The extent of protection was limited to the
want of revenue, but the duties were uniformly so adjusted as, while producing revenue, to
encourage manufactures.

* * * * *

"But, after all, we must place as the chief cause of Democratic defeat the profound and settled
distrust that the Democratic party will now, having the President and a majority in both Houses,
disturb the enormous industries of our country developed by, and dependent upon, our tariff
laws, and will seek to substitute the policy of Great Britain, of free trade, as against the
example of the leading nations of Europe as well as our own, of a wise and careful protection,
and encouragement by tariff laws of all forms of domestic industry that can be conducted with
a reasonable hope of profit in this country.  The future of parties will depend more largely
upon the manner in which this condition of things is met by the present Congress than upon
all other causes combined."

The second session of the 53rd Congress commenced on the 4th of December, 1893.  The President
in his message was especially urgent in his recommendation of a revision of the tariff laws.
He said:

"After a hard struggle tariff reform is directly before us.  Nothing so important claims our
attention, and nothing so clearly presents itself as both an opportunity and a duty--an opportunity
to deserve the gratitude of our fellow-citizens, and a duty imposed upon us by our oft-repeated
professions, and by the emphatic mandate of the people.  After a full discussion our countrymen
have spoken in favor of this reform, and they have confided the work of its accomplishment
to the hands of those who are solemnly pledged to it.

"If there is anything in the theory of a representation in public places of the people and
their desires, if public officers are really the servants of the people, and if political promises
and professions have any binding force, our failure to give the relief so long awaited will
be sheer recreancy.  Nothing should intervene to distract our attention or disturb our effort,
until this reform is accomplished by wise and careful legislation.

* * * * *

"Not less closely related to our people's prosperity and well-being is the removal of restrictions
upon the importation of the raw materials necessary to our manufactures.  The world should
be open to our national ingenuity and enterprise.  This cannot be while federal legislation,
through the imposition of high tariffs, forbids to American manufactures as cheap materials
as those used by their competitors."

In view of this message, it was manifest that the tariff would be the chief subject of legislation
during the session.  It was understood that a bill had been prepared by the committee of ways
and means, which had been submitted to the President and Secretary of the Treasury and approved
by them.  It was reported to the House of Representatives, December 19, 1893.  On the 8th of
January, 1894, Mr. Wilson, chairman of the committee, made an elaborate speech in its support.
The debate continued until the 1st of February, when, with some amendments, it passed the House.
In the Senate, on the next day, it was referred to the committee on finance. On the 20th of
March it was reported to the Senate, with amendments, by Mr. Voorhees.  Mr. Morrill said:

"I desire to say that so far as the Republican members of the committee on finance are concerned
they did not object to the reporting of the bill, while they are opposed not only to the proposed
income tax, but to the many changes of specifics to ad valorems, and to the great bulk of the
provisions of the bill." 

Public ownership 31.

Some aspects of fabianism Index Introduction The present volume deals
with various practical problems in economics, as a volume published
the period earlier dealt with the broader economic rule of value and
distribution.

 He laid along down his mallet,
arose at his feet, glared from the member, and, shaking his finger savagely, shouted: "sit down,
you blankety-blank black blankety-blank!"

As the negro dropped instantly to his seat and was no more heard
to.  The President refused to approve it and it became a law after ten days without
his approval.

This skeleton history of what is now known as the Wilson tariff partly discloses its imperfections.
Framed in the House as a tariff for revenue only, and radically changed in the Senate to a
tariff with protection to special industries, it was not satisfactory to either House, to the
President or to the people.  So far as it copied the schedules and the legislative provisions
of the McKinley law, it met with approval.  Its new features were incongruous, were decidedly
sectional, and many of its provisions were inconsistent with each other.

The vital defect of this bill is that it does not provide sufficient revenue to carry on the
government.  This is the primary and almost the only cause of the financial difficulties of
the present administration. Nor is the Country side at the summit up this range of hills. Well with of
the hillside, Highland Avenue winds a charming course of pleasant homes, on here and far a sharp
residence park branching off to one Club, and here and there a little municipal park occupying
an angle formed by a small turn in the driveway; and if you follow the street there enough you will
presently see the house between the Birmingham Country Club, standing upon its green hilltop,
amidst rolling, partly wooded golf links, above the road.

  By the 1st of July, 1893, when the Wilson bill
was in embryo, the revenues had been so diminished as to yield a surplus of only $2,341,074
during the previous year. It was apparent, when Congress met in August, that the administration,
having a majority in each House of Congress, was determined to reduce duties, and yet it made
no effort to reduce expenditures. Soon after there was a large deficiency in the revenue, and
the Secretary of the Treasury was compelled either to refuse to pay appropriations made by
law in excess of receipts or to borrow money to meet the deficiencies.

