It was in the sixteenth century that the Ursuline Order took its rise. The epoch was one peculiarly
disastrous in the Church's history. Luther's heresy was working evil on a gigantic scale. It
had spread from nation to nation with the rapidity of a pestilential contagion, blighting with
its deadly venom all it touched, and everywhere marking its progress by a wide track of spiritual
ruin and desolation, as well as of political anarchy and social disorganization. Each new success
of its unholy work, necessarily inflicted a new pang on the heart of the sorrowing Spouse of
Christ. Day after day, she had to weep afresh over some new profanation of her sanctuaries,
some new desertion of her faithless children, some aggravated treason against her God. Nor
was it only the ravages of heresy that she had to lament, but perhaps still more, the disloyalty
of too many among her still nominal adherents. While a vast number of her disciples revolted
openly against her authority, others who recognised it in words, rejected it in practice. Where
the light of faith had not been utterly extinguished, the fire of charity had but too often
cooled. The lower classes were ignorant, the better instructed careless; both more or less
indifferent. Worse than all, the very guardians of the fold had in too many instances proved
false to their sacred trust, so intent on the advancement of their own worldly interests, as
to concern themselves very little for the protection of their perishing flocks. The ever spreading
torrent of corruption and infidelity, looked, as though in its fully gathered strength, it
might one day inundate the world. Where could an efficacious barrier be found to its farther
progress? The question was a momentous one, involving the honour even of Him who had given
His life- blood to purchase the very souls of whom Satan was thus making an easy prey. All
unknown to each other, two faithful children of the mourning Mother were just then occupied
in studying the grand problem, and both succeeded in discovering the solution. Yet a few years,
and they would give the world the practical result of their researches in the institution of
their respective Orders, the Jesuits and the Ursulines. With the latter, the name of the Mother
Mary of the Incarnation is so closely interwoven, that a few words on the rise and progress
of the Order, naturally find a place in her biography.

Saint Angela Merici, the Foundress of the Ursulines, was born on the 2lst of March, 1474, therefore
was considerably advanced in life when Luther took up arms against the Church. Dezenzano, her
birth-place, stands on the south-west bank of the picturesque Lago di Garda in the Venetian
States, about seventeen miles from Brescia. It is ever the saints whom God employs to do His
work, and in the present instance, neither the work nor the instrument was to be an exception
to the rule. Angela entered on the path of sanctity almost at the same time as on the path
of life, and as she advanced in years, kept ever redoubling her pace, until at last she may
be said to have flown, rather than walked along the blessed way. From her earliest days she
evinced a dread of sin, a love of prayer and solitude, and an inclination for the severities
of penance, very unusual in children. Ever cherishing a supreme, absorbing desire to live for
God alone, she perpetually added fuel to the heavenly fire by frequent communion, prolonged
prayer before the Blessed Sacrament, and similar holy practices, unhappily at that time but
little observed. After her admission to the Third Order of St. Francis, she placed so little
limit to her austerities, that she might with strict truth have been called a living victim
of perpetual penance.