Not only would this presumably hostile force be in Jefferson's camp, but their salaries would
seriously interfere with his plans for retrenchment. How had it been done? By passing a new
judiciary act, which abolished the whole system of circuit courts, with their judges and minor
officials, and substituted the old practice of requiring the Supreme and district judges to
perform the labours of the circuit courts. No life tenure would hold for an office which did
not exist. The anathemas of the "promoted" officials, thus fallen between stools, added to
the pleasure of the Jeffersonians. The names of twenty-two unfortunates, whom the Senate failed
to find time to ratify in the closing hours, were recalled by Jefferson, under the caption,
"Nominated but not appointed."

Midnight of the 3rd of March had caught forty-one of the proposed Federal justices of the peace
for the District of Columbia without their appointment having been fully made. Jefferson arbitrarily
cut down their number to twenty-five, "having been thought too many," as he said. Among those
dropped were four whose commissions had been made out and sealed by the acting Secretary of
State, but had not been delivered. Madison, who became Secretary of State under Jefferson,
refused to deliver the commissions, and the men, headed by one William Marbury, made a motion
in the Federal court to obtain them. They had no recourse in the State courts. From this trivial
circumstance, involving the least national judiciary office, came the case of Marbury vs. Madison,
involving the right of the judiciary branch of the Federal Government to give an order to the
executive.

One phase of the relation of these two branches had been established nearly ten years before,
when President Washington attempted to get an interpretation from the Supreme Court upon the
binding clauses of the vexatious treaty with France. He was told that the court was not an
advisory body, but a tribunal established to adjudge specific cases brought before it. For
this advisory service, the Executive must depend upon his Attorney-General. About the same
time, the United States circuit courts protested against an act of Congress which made them
recipients of pension applications subject to the final decision of the War Department. Evidently
the Judiciary intended to remain independent of both the other branches of the National Government.

One feature of the relationship between the Federal courts and the Congress had been presumed
to exist by Hamilton and other commentators on the Constitution, viz., the power to adjudge
of the rights of individuals under an act of Congress. This principle of passing on the constitutionality
of a legislative act by the courts had been established in at least five States before the
adoption of the Constitution. It had been exercised in several cases by the Federal courts
before the case of Marbury vs. Madison arose. A new contention was involved by asking whether
the request made to the Supreme Court to issue a mandamus would hold against the provisions
of the Constitution, which did not include mandamus in the powers specifically given to the court.

It chanced that the case came before John Marshall, who had recently assumed the station of
Chief Justice, to which John Adams appointed him in the closing months of his administration.
The previous history of the court, with the exception of two or three cases, had been insignificant.
Its decisions during the first ten years do not fill as many pages as do those for a single
year at the present time. He refused to return to the bench, and Marshall was appointed, with
whom the second era of the court begins. Marshall was a Virginian, a school-fellow of Monroe,
and co-worker with Madison in the Virginia Constitutional Convention. But the war acquaintance
which he formed with Washington and Hamilton, added to his personal views, turned him toward
Federalism. As a Virginian, he was cultivated by members of that party, office after office
being placed at his option. Accepting the Chief-Justiceship under a life tenure, he was "saddled"
on the Republicans, as they said.

The decision in the case of Marbury vs. Madison was one of many which emanated from Marshall,
silently shoring up the fabric of the Union as it was erected by the hand of necessity. "The
theory that an act of legislature repugnant to the Constitution is void," said the Chief Justice,
in granting Marbury and others the withheld commissions, through the district court, "is essential
to a written constitution, and is consequently to be considered by this court as one of the
fundamental principles of our society." We speak so easily now of declaring a law unconstitutional,
thereby rendering it null and void, and we acquiesce so readily in these decisions that it
is difficult to imagine the small beginnings of this great power exercised by one branch of
the Federal Government over another. By holding that the mandamus must issue from the District
and not the Supreme Court, the case might have been dismissed briefly. The Republicans thought
the long disquisition on the powers of the court and its relation to the executive branch a
kind of defiance and entirely unwarranted. It was the beginning of a long list of similar offences
by Marshall.

Meanwhile the new Administration had continued its reform activities, "to restore the government
to its principles, amend its defects, reform abuses, and introduce order and economy in the
administration," as Monroe outlined it to President Jefferson. The latter summed up the reform
work of the Republicans at the end of the first session:

"They have reduced the army and navy to what is barely necessary.

Thus had democracy, in Jefferson's opinion, at last come into its own.

CHAPTER XV

STRICT CONSTRUCTION AN IMPOSSIBILITY

Sixty years of almost uninterrupted Republican-Democratic administration were inaugurated with
Thomas Jefferson in 1801. This period was auspiciously begun by correcting the abuses wrought
in the National Government by the twelve years of Federalism. It was ended by the faithful
adherence of the party to the slavery system, to which it was bound both by geographic strength
and the principles of individualism. The period was apparently long enough to allow the party
to give the Union such a bias toward decentralisation that it could never recover its power
and prestige. How the compelling laws of organised society, the needs of the people in their
conquest of the wilderness, and the necessity of providing for the common defence and the general
welfare prevented such an unfortunate consummation makes up the middle period of the story
of the United States.

It was easy for the new administrators to show in theory how the Central Government should
be restricted to certain actions; it was impossible to avoid entering upon certain new activities
as progress demanded from time to time. Take such a simple matter as the national capital.
Suddenly transferred to the woods on the banks of the Potomac, the National Government found
no such accommodations as the two cities in which it had previously been lodged had afforded.
One completed and one incomplete wing of the Capitol building, an empty and bare President's
mansion, one tavern, and a few houses, with streets indicated only by felled trees, formed
the Athens of America, pronounced by Robert Morris the very best city in the world for a "future"
residence. Members of Congress who traversed the three miles of mud road to Georgetown, where
the only comfortable lodgings were to be obtained, would willingly have reduced the scale upon
which the capital was laid out. Very early it became the "City of Magnificent Distances." However
crude the city might be, the soil on which it rested belonged exclusively to the United States.
It was the only spot of any magnitude which could be so claimed. It was due to the generosity
of two neighouring States, Virginia and Maryland. To the same charity was owed the money which
had partly built the two wings of the Capitol and the President's mansion. Nevertheless, land
and buildings do not make a city. Money for the construction of streets, it was at first supposed,
would come from the sale of lots. "Path-ways" were built from this resource under direction
of members of the Cabinet before the Government was transferred from Philadelphia. Money was
advanced on such expectation both by Congress and by the State of Maryland. Yet the advent
of Government and the inauguration of Jefferson found the work incomplete. Members of Congress
who stepped gingerly in their low shoes over the paths made of chips of stone from the new
buildings, or who attempted the mile of cleared roadway between the two administration buildings,
received an object lesson in the necessity for improvements which speedily overcame conscientious
scruples.

Any expenditure for such purposes could find warrant in the Constitution only through the implied
powers theory. "To exercise exclusive legislation" over the District might mean to construct
sidewalks and to grade streets; but it was not so expressed. So urgent became the necessity,
that in 1803 an appropriation for buildings was made to include the repair of the highway between
the Capitol and the other public buildings. The expenditure of this money, as Jefferson afterwards
boasted, was confined carefully to the avenue between the Capitol and Mansion hills and to
the squares about them. As time went on and the city grew, specific appropriations had to be
made for the construction of streets and roadways within the District. These were wrung annually
from the reluctant party. To the disgust of people living in more remote parts of the District,
the first of these sums was spent entirely in widening Pennsylvania Avenue, planting it with
trees, in replacing its wooden culverts with brick, in repairing the public squares about the
buildings, and in grading the slope in front of the War Office. "It cannot be supposed," replied
Jefferson to one protestant, "that Congress intended to tax the people of the United States
at large for all avenues in Washington and roads in the District of Columbia."

Trivial as these incidents must appear in comparison with the present attitude of the Government
toward the District, they serve to illustrate the law of compulsion. Numerous others might
be introduced here. The Jeffersonians inherited from the Federalists a small collection of
books and maps, which had been purchased for the use of the members of Congress deprived of
the library facilities they had enjoyed in the cities of New York and Philadelphia. It was
the beginning of the present magnificent Library of Congress. Instead of casting aside the
volumes and returning the unexpended balance to the treasury, the strict constructionists adopted
the library and soon began to make direct appropriations for it, crowning the action in 1815
by expending twenty-three thousand dollars for the purchase of Jefferson's own library to be
added to the collection.

Thus did the seat of government and its needs drive another wedge of loose construction into
close-grained theory. To have exclusive control over a district not exceeding ten miles square
meant not only police control, but it meant to make a home fit for the national seat of government,
and to provide for the necessities of its representatives. Nevertheless conscientious scruples
and niggardly appropriations had sufficient weight for many years to make the home of the Union
a disgrace to the nation and a thing of contempt in comparison with the capitals of other lands.

If the strict constructionists had inaugurated the National Government, their task of confining
it within a certain limit would not have been so difficult. There is little doubt that the
power to "regulate commerce" was intended originally to cover the collection of a national
impost. But if United States custom-houses were to collect duties on imported goods, they must
erect lighthouses, build piers, and dredge channels in order to get the goods into the harbours.
The States, having surrendered the benefits of an impost to the National Government, were not
likely to undertake or continue such works on an adequate scale. No permission to engage in
such enterprises was to be found in the Constitution except as deduced from the power stated
above. The encouragement of foreign commerce had been almost a fetich with the Federalists.
They had freely granted appropriations for such purposes.

But it was not possible to restrict the demand to lighthouses. Presently an appropriation was
necessary for a dry dock to accommodate the little gunboats which the thrifty Administration
had substituted for the Federal men-of-war. Jefferson got out of this in a way which would
have done credit to his great rival. Here Jefferson had made out a list of proscribed actions,
which the National Government dared not enter upon. But soon Gallatin reported a vessel sunk
in the Delaware River, a menace to navigation, which neighbouring States showed no inclination
to remove. Reluctantly the President gave permission to have the United States open the river.
In quoting the powers of the National Government over commerce to justify the action, he added,
"But we must take care not to go ahead of them and strain the meaning of the terms still further
to the clearing out of the channels of all rivers, etc., of the United States. The removing
of a sunken vessel is not the repairing of a pier." Nevertheless, soon after, an appropriation
was made for erecting public piers in the Delaware River. It is needless to continue citing
the steps by which the Administration assumed a fostering care of these public improvements.
To sum up during the last year of Jefferson's administration, appropriations aggregating almost
one hundred thousand dollars were made, without opposition, for constructing lighthouses, for
removing bars and shoals, and making safe the ways of ocean commerce. The extension of this
paternalistic principle to internal commerce would come in time with the movement of the people
inland.

It may be said truthfully that these various measures, so inconsistent with the early avowed
principles of the party, were inherited from the Federalists. But responsibility for the supreme
act, the addition of foreign territory to the national domain, must be assumed solely by the
Administration. Perhaps no action, until the decision to prevent certain States from leaving
the Union, contributed so much to the central authority as the purchase of the Louisiana country
by the Jeffersonians. If the decision had been negative, if conscientious scruples had been
allowed to prevail, one hesitates to predict what would have been the fate of this "pent-up
Utica." For forty years the ownership of Louisiana had been shifting and uncertain. For twenty
years its possession had been a matter of scheming and intrigue by both Great Britain and France.
Permanently in the hand of any foreign power, it would have completely blocked the path of
progress. To possess one-half the drainage basin of the valley would have led to constant conflict
with the owners of the other half. The insularity upon which the United States has depended
so largely, the freedom from annoying neighbours, room for the westward expansion of the people,
the unification of the Mississippi valley--all would have been lost if the original strict-construction
theory had prevailed. Securing a domain extending to the Mississippi in the Peace of 1783 had
been simply retaining what had been won largely by the colonists twenty years before when the
French were driven from the valley. In the Louisiana question, the nation faced for the first
time a national expansion.

To pronounce this the paramount action of the century in Union-making, one need only think
of the precedent for acquiring new territory thus formed and which has been followed in no
less than seven instances and confirmed by a decision of the Supreme Court. It seems strange
that the framers of the Constitution did not foresee and provide for such an emergency. Perhaps
the omission was due to the intuitive feeling that no nation in all history had hesitated to
enlarge its domain when advantage offered or necessity demanded. Necessity was here the moving
principle and it scattered to the winds party objection to using the implied powers, and forced
the friends of government to take refuge in the preamble to the Constitution and in "all laws
which are just and necessary," a position from which they had tried in vain to drive the Hamiltonians
a few years before.

It was ordained by fate that the Jeffersonians should father a policy of national expansion
which covered every addition of territory to that of Alaska. By nature they were opposed to
giving such advantage to the central power. After the acquisition had been made, Jefferson
was loud in his declaration that he would not "give one inch of the waters of the Mississippi
to any nation"; but neither by nature nor party was he an expansionist. He would have been
satisfied with the acquisition of the east bank of the river, including New Orleans. During
the negotiations he confessed his doubts of success. He thought trade would soon make Natchez
a second New Orleans. Hamilton, on the contrary, was an expansionist by principle and party.
Three years before the purchase of Louisiana he said of that country and the Floridas, "I have
been long in the habit of considering the acquisition of those countries as essential to the
permanency of the Union, which I consider as very important to the welfare of the whole."

Holding such aggressive opinions, Hamilton and his party, had they been in control during this
long period, might have rashly entered upon an offensive policy which would have precipitated
frequent wars and have endangered the Republic before its home strength had been developed.
Looking to the happiness of the mass rather than the individual and devoid of scruples about
the divine rights of man, the Federalists would not have hesitated to hold as subjects the
inhabitants of acquired territory longer than the principle of self-government, for which a
republic stands, would have permitted. On the other hand, by the time the "porcupine policy"
of dealing with other nations on territorial questions, as the Federalists contemptuously called
the early attitude of their opponents, had grown gradually into an aggressive policy, the Republic
had become sufficiently strong to maintain whatever position might be taken.

