She stopped, seeing a question in my eyes. "I've been reading up on the subject," she explained.
"I know it all now--the things I should have known before I married." 

"How did you manage that?" 

"I tried to get two of the doctors to give me something to read, but they wouldn't hear of
it. I'd set myself crazy imagining things, it was no sort of stuff for a woman's mind. So in
the end I took the bit in my teeth. I found a medical book store, and I went in and said: 'I
am an American physician, and I want to see the latest works on venereal disease.' So the clerk
took me to the shelves, and I picked out a couple of volumes." 

"You poor child!" I exclaimed. 

"When Douglas found that I was reading these books he threatened to burn them. I told him 'There
are more copies in the store, and I am determined to be educated on this subject.'" 

She paused. "How much like my own experience!" I thought. 

"There were chapters on the subject of wives, how much they were not told, and why this was.
So very quickly I began to see around my own experience. Douglas must have figured out that
this would be so, for the end of the matter was an admission." 

"You don't mean he confessed to you!" 

She smiled bitterly. "No," she said. "He brought Dr. Perrin to London to do it for him. Dr.
Perrin said he had concluded I had best know that my husband had had some symptoms of the disease.
He, the doctor, wished to tell me who was to blame for the attempt to deceive me. Douglas had
been willing to admit the truth, but all the doctors had forbidden it. On their return to their native
country, they did spread abroad tidings that the deaf people of America had gained a treasure richer
a thousand-fold than those which had gilded the triumphs of Cortes
or Pizarro-- the prize of autonomy. The lessons of freedom were learned
by the sister while aiding the revolted colonies against England were
not forgotten.

Then the to-trampled millions of France arose, and with avaricious haste
for a like treasure. I said. "That is what I tried to make them see; but all I got for it was a sentence
of deportation!" 

11. When Sylvia's train arrived at the station of her home town, the whole family was waiting
upon the platform for her, and a good part of the town besides. The news that she had arrived
in New York, and was coming home on account of her father's illness, had, of course, been reproduced
in all the local papers, with the result that the worthy major had been deluged with telegrams
and letters concerning his health. Notwithstanding, he had insisted upon coming to the train
to meet his daughter. He was not going to be shut up in a sickroom to please all the gossips
of two hemispheres. In his best black broad-cloth, his broad, black hat newly brushed, and
his old-fashioned, square-toed shoes newly shined, he paced up and down the station platform
for half an hour, and it was to his arms that Sylvia flew when she alighted from the train. 

There was "Miss Margaret," who had squeezed her large person and fluttering draperies out of
the family automobile, and was waiting to shed tears over her favourite daughter; there was
Celeste, radiant with a wonderful piece of news which she alone was to impart to her sister;
there were Peggy and Maria, shot up suddenly into two amazingly-gawky girls; there was Master
Castleman Lysle, the only son of the house, with his black-eyed and bad-tempered French governess.
And finally there was Aunt Varina, palpitating with various agitations, not daring to whisper
to anyone else the fears which this sudden home-coming inspired in her. Bishop Chilton and
his wife were away, but a delegation of cousins had come; also Uncle Mandeville Castleman had
sent a huge bunch of roses, which were in the family automobile, and Uncle Barry Chilton had
sent a pair of wild turkeys, which were soon to be in the family. 

Behind Sylvia stalked her cold and haughty husband, and behind him tripped the wonderful nursemaid,
with her wonderful blue streamers, and her wonderful bundle of ruffles and lace. All the huge
family had to fall upon Sylvia and kiss and embrace her rapturously, and shake the hand of
the cold and haughty husband, and peer into the wonderful bundle, and go into ecstasies over
its contents. Rarely, indeed, did the great ones of this earth condescend to spread so much
of their emotional life before the public gaze; and was it any wonder that the town crowded
about, and the proprieties were temporarily repealed? 

It had never been published, but it was generally known throughout the State that Sylvia's
child was blind, and it was whispered that this portended something strange and awful. So there
hung about the young mother and the precious bundle an atmosphere of mystery and melancholy.
How had she taken her misfortune? How had she taken all the great events that had befallen
her--her progress through the courts and camps of Europe? Would she still condescend to know
her fellow-townsmen? Many were the hearts that beat high as she bestowed her largess of smiles
and friendly words. There were even humble old negroes who went off enraptured to tell the
town that "Mi' Sylvia" had actually shaken hands with them. There was almost a cheer from the
crowd as the string of automobiles set out for Castleman Hall. 

12. There was a grand banquet that evening, at which the turkeys entered the family. Not in
years had there been so many people crowded into the big dining-room, nor so many servants
treading upon each other's toes in the kitchen. 

Such a din of chatter and laughter! Sylvia was her old radiant self, and her husband was quite
evidently charmed by the patriarchal scene. He was affable, really genial, and won the hearts
of everybody; he told the good major, amid a hush which almost turned his words into a speech,
that he was able to understand how they of the South loved their own section so passionately;
there was about the life an intangible something--a spell, an elevation of spirit, which set
it quite apart by itself. And since this was the thing which they of the South most delighted
to believe concerning themselves, they listened enraptured, and set the speaker apart as a
rare and discerning spirit. 

Afterwards came the voice of Sylvia: "You must beware of Douglas, Papa; he is an inveterate
flatterer." She laughed as she said it; and of those present it was Aunt Varina alone who caught
the ominous note, and saw the bitter curl of her lips as she spoke. Aunt Varina and her niece
were the only persons there who knew Douglas van Tuiver well enough to appreciate the irony
of the term "inveterate flatterer." 

Sylvia realized at once that her husband was setting out upon a campaign to win her family
to his side. He rode about the major's plantations, absorbing information about the bollweevil.
He rode back to the house, and exchanged cigars, and listened to stories of the major's boyhood
during the war. He went to call upon Bishop Chilton, and sat in his study, with its walls of
faded black volumes on theology. Van Tuiver himself had had a Church of England tutor, and
was a punctilious high churchman; but he listened respectfully to arguments for a simpler form
of church organization, and took away a voluminous exposé of the fallacies of "Apostolic Succession."
And then came Aunt Nannie, ambitious and alert as when she had helped the young millionaire
to find a wife; and the young millionaire made the suggestion that Aunt Nannie's third daughter
should not fail to visit Sylvia at Newport. 

There was no limit, apparently, to what he would do. He took Master Castleman Lysle upon his
knee, and let him drop a valuable watch upon the floor. He got up early in the morning and
went horse-back riding with Peggy and Maria. He took Celeste automobiling, and helped by his
attentions to impress the cocksure young man with whom Celeste was in love. He won "Miss Margaret"
by these attentions to all her children, and the patience with which he listened to accounts
of the ailments which had afflicted the precious ones at various periods of their lives. To
Sylvia, watching all these proceedings, it was as if he were binding himself to her with so
many knots. 

She had come home with a longing to be quiet, to avoid seeing anyone. But this could not be,
she discovered. There was gossip about the child's blindness, and the significance thereof;
and to have gone into hiding would have meant an admission of the worst. The ladies of the
family had prepared a grand "reception," at which all Castleman County was to come and gaze
upon the happy mother. And then there was the monthly dance at the Country Club, where everybody
would come, in the hope of seeing the royal pair. To Sylvia it was as if her mother and aunts
were behind her every minute of the day, pushing her out into the world. "Go on, go on! Show
yourself! Do not let people begin to talk!" 

13. She bore it for a couple of weeks; then she went to her cousin, Harley Chilton. "Harley,"
she said, "my husband is anxious to go on a hunting-trip. Will you go with him?" 

"When?" asked the boy. 

"Right away; to-morrow or the next day." 

"I'm game," said Harley. 

After which she went to her husband. "Douglas, it is time for you to go." 

He sat studying her face. "You still have that idea?" he said, at last. 

"I still have it." 

"I was hoping that here, among your home-people, your sanity would partially return." 

"I know what you have been hoping, Douglas. And I am sorry--but I am quite unchanged." 

"Have we not been getting along happily here?" he demanded. 

"No, I have not--I have been wretched. And I cannot have any peace until you no longer haunt
me. I am sorry for you, but I must be alone--and so long as you are here the entertainments
will continue." 

"We could make it clear that we did not care for entertainments. We could find some quiet place
near your people, where we could live in peace." 

"Douglas," she said, "I have spoken to Cousin Harley. He is ready to go hunting with you. Please
call him up and make arrangements to start to-morrow. If you are still here the following day,
I shall leave for one of Uncle Mandeville's plantations." 

There was a long silence. "Sylvia," he said, at last, "how long do you imagine this behaviour
of yours can continue?" 

"It will continue forever. My mind is made up. It is necessary that you make up yours." 

Again he waited, while he made sure of his self-control. "You propose to keep the baby with
you?" he asked, at last. 

"For the present, yes. The baby cannot get along without me." 

"And for the future?" 

"We will make a fair arrangement as to that. Give me a little time to get myself together,
and then I will come and live somewhere near you in New York, and I will arrange it so that
you can see the child as often as you please. I have no desire to take her from you--I only
want to take myself from you." 

"Sylvia," he said, "have you realized all the unhappiness this course of yours is going to
bring to your people?" 

"Oh, don't begin that now!" she pleaded. 

"I know," he said, "how determined you are to punish me. But I should think you would try to
find some way to spare them." 

"Douglas," she replied, "I know exactly what you have been doing. I have watched your change
of character since you came here. You may be able to make my people so unhappy that I must
be unhappy also. You see how deeply I love them, how I yield everything for love of them. But
let me make it clear, I will not yield this. It was for their sake I went into this marriage,
but I have come to see that it was wrong, and no power on earth can induce me to stay in it.
My mind is made up--I will not live with a man I do not love. I will not even pretend to do
it. Now do you understand me, Douglas?" 

There was a silence, while she waited for some word from him. When none came, she asked, "You
will arrange to go to-morrow?" 

He answered calmly, "I see no reason why I, your husband, should permit you to pursue this
insane course. You propose to leave me; and the reason you give is one that would, if it were
valid, break up two-thirds of the homes in the country. Your own family will stand by me in
my effort to prevent your ruin." 

"What do you expect to do?" she asked in a suppressed voice. 

"I have to assume that my wife is insane; and I shall look after her till she comes to her
senses." 

She sat watching him for a few moments, wondering at him. Then she said, "You are willing to
stay on here, day after day, pursuing me in the only refuge I have. Well then, I shall not
consider your feelings. I have a work to do here--and I think that when I begin it, you will
want to be far away." 

"What do you mean?" he asked--and he looked at her as if she were really a maniac. 

"You see my sister Celeste is about to marry. That was the wonderful news she had to tell me
at the depot. It happens that I have known Roger Peyton all my life, and know he has the reputation
of being one of the 'fastest' boys in the town." 

"Well?" he asked. 

"Just this, Douglas--I do not intend to leave my sister unprotected as I was. I am going to
tell her about Elaine. I am going to tell her all that she needs to know. It is bound to mean
arguments with the old people, and in the end the whole family will be discussing the subject.
I feel sure you will not care to be here under such circumstances." 

"And may I ask when this begins?" he inquired, with intense bitterness in his tone. 

"Right away," she said. "I have merely been waiting until you should go."

He said not a word, but she knew by the expression on his face that she had carried her point
at last. He turned and left the room; and that was the last word she had with him, save for
their formal parting in the presence of the family. 

14. Roger Peyton was the son and heir of one of the oldest families in Castleman County. I
had heard of this family before--in a wonderful story that Sylvia told of the burning of "Rose
Briar," their stately mansion, some years previously: how the neighbours had turned out to
extinguish the flames, and failing, had danced a last whirl in the ball-room, while the fire
roared in the stories overhead. The house had since been rebuilt, more splendid than ever,
and the prestige of the family stood undiminished. One of the sons was an old "flame" of Sylvia's,
and another was married to one of the Chilton girls. As for Celeste, she had been angling for
Roger the past year or two, and she stood now at the apex of happiness. 

Sylvia went to her father, to talk with him about the difficult subject of venereal disease.
The poor major had never expected to live to hear such a discourse from a daughter of his;
however, with the blind child under his roof, he could not find words to stop her. "But, Sylvia,"
he protested, "what reason have you to suspect such a thing of Roger Peyton?" 

"I have the reason of his life. You know that he has the reputation of being 'fast'; you know
that he drinks, you know that I once refused to speak to him because he danced with me when
he was drunk." 

"My child, all the men you know have sowed their wild oats." 

"Papa, you must not take advantage of me in such a discussion. I don't claim to know what sins
may be included in the phrase 'wild oats.' Let us speak frankly--can you say that you think
it unlikely that Roger Peyton has been unchaste?" 

The major hesitated and coughed; finally he said: "The boy drinks, Sylvia; further than that
I have no knowledge." 

"The medical books tell me that the use of alcohol tends to break down self-control, and to
make continence impossible. And if that be true, you must admit that we have a right to ask
assurances. What do you suppose that Roger and his crowd are doing when they go roistering
about the streets at night? What do they do when they go off to Mardi Gras? Or at college--you
know that Cousin Clive had to get him out of trouble several times. Go and ask Clive if Roger
has ever been exposed to the possibility of these diseases." 

"My child," said the major, "Clive would not feel he had the right to tell me such things about
his friend." 

"Not even when the friend wants to marry his cousin?" 

"But such questions are not asked, my daughter." 

"Papa, I have thought this matter out carefully, and I hava something definite to propose to
you. I have no idea of stopping with what Clive Chilton may or may not see fit to tell about
his chum. I want you to go to Roger." 

Major Castleman's face wore a blank stare. 

"If he's going to marry your daughter, you have the right to ask about his past. What I want
you to tell him is that you will get the name of a reputable specialist in these diseases,
and that before he can have your daughter he must present you with a letter from this man,
to the effect that he is fit to marry." 

The poor major was all but speechless. "My child, who ever heard of such a proposition?" 

"I don't know that any one ever did, papa. But it seems to me time they should begin to hear
of it; and I don't see who can have a better right to take the first step than you and I, who
have paid such a dreadful price for our neglect." 

Sylvia had been prepared for opposition--the instinctive opposition which men manifest to having
this embarrassing subject dragged out into the light of day. Even men who have been chaste
themselves--good fathers of families like the major--cannot be unaware of the complications
incidental to frightening their women-folk, and setting up an impossibly high standard in sons-in-law.
But Sylvia stood by her guns; at last she brought her father to his knees by the threat that
if he could not bring himself to talk with Roger Peyton, she, Sylvia Castleman, would do it. 

15. The young suitor came by appointment the next day, and had a session with the Major in
his office. After he had gone, Sylvia went to her father and found him pacing the floor, with
an extinct cigar between his lips, and several other ruined cigars lying on the hearth. 

"You asked him, papa?" 

"I did, Sylvia." 

"And what did he say?" 

"Why, daughter----" The major flung his cigar from him with desperate energy. "It was most
embarrassing!" he exclaimed--"most painful!" His pale old face was crimson with blushes. 

"Go on, papa," said Sylvia, gentle but firm. 

"The poor boy--naturally, Sylvia, he could not but feel hurt that I should think it necessary
to ask such questions. Such things are not done, my child. It seemed to him that I must look
upon him as--well, as much worse than other young fellows----" 

The old man stopped, and began to walk restlessly up and down. "Yes, papa," said Sylvia. "What
else?" 

"Well, he said it seemed to him that such a matter might have been left to the honour of a
man whom I was willing to think of as a son-in-law. And you see, my child, what an embarrassing
position I was in; I could not give him any hint as to my reason for being anxious about these
matters--anything, you understand, that might be to the discredit of your husband." 

"Go on, papa." 

"Well, I gave him a fatherly talking to about his way of life." 

"Did you ask him the definite question as to his health?" 

"No, Sylvia." 

"Did he tell you anything definite?" 

"No." 

"Then you didn't do what you had set out to do!" 

"Yes, I did. I told him that he must see a doctor." 

"You made quite clear to him what you wanted?" 

"Yes, I did--really, I did." 

"And what did he say?" She went to him and took his arm and led him to a couch. "Come, papa,
let us get to the facts. You must tell me." They sat down, and the major sighed, lit a fresh
cigar, rolled it about in his fingers until it was ruined, and then flung it away. 

"Boys don't talk freely to older men," he said. "They really never do. You may doubt this----" 

"What did he say, papa?" 

"Why, he didn't know what to say. He didn't really say anything." And here the major came to
a complete halt. 

His daughter, after studying his face for a minute, remarked, "In plain words, papa, you think
he has something to hide, and he may not be able to give you the evidence you asked?" 

The other was silent. 

"You fear that is the situation, but you are trying not to believe it." As he still said nothing,
Sylvia whispered, "Poor Celeste!" 

Suddenly she put her hands upon his shoulders, and looked into his eye. "Papa, can't you see
what that means--that Celeste ought to have been told these things long ago?" 

"What good would that have done?" he asked, in bewilderment. 

"She could have known what kind of man she was choosing; and she might be spared the dreadful
unhappiness that is before her now." 

"Sylvia! Sylvia!" protested the other. "Surely such things cannot be discussed with innocent
young girls!" 

"So long as we refuse to do it, we are simply entering into a conspiracy with the man of loose
life, so that he may escape the worst penalty of his evil-doing. Take the boys in our own set--why
is it they feel safe in running off to the big cities and 'sowing their wild oats'--even sowing
them in the obscure parts of their own town? Is it not because they know that their sisters
and girl friends are ignorant and helpless; so that when they are ready to pick a wife, they
will be at no disadvantage? Here is Celeste; she knows that Roger has been 'wild,' but no one
has hinted to her what that means; she thinks of things that are picturesque--that he's high-spirited,
and brave, and free with his money." 

"But, my daughter," protested the major, "such knowledge would have a terrible effect upon
young girls!" He rose and began to pace the floor again. "Daughter, you are letting yourself
run wild! The sweetness, the virginal innocence of young and pure women--if you take that from
them, there'd be nothing left to keep men from falling to the level of brutes!" 

"Papa," said Sylvia, "all that sounds well, but it has no meaning. I have been robbed of my
'innocence,' and I know that it has not debased me. It has only fitted me to deal with the
realities of life. And it will do the same for any girl who is taught by earnest and reverent
people. Now, as it is, we have to tell Celeste, but we tell her too late." 

"But we won't have to tell her!" cried the major. 

"Dear papa, please explain how we can avoid telling her." 

"I will inform her that she must give the young man up. She is a good and dutiful daughter----" 

"Yes," replied Sylvia, "but suppose on this one occasion she were to fail to be good and dutiful?
Suppose the next day you learn that she had run away and married Roger--what would you do about
it then?" 

16. That evening Roger was to take his fiancée to one of the young people's dances. And there
was Celeste, in a flaming red dress, with a great bunch of flaming roses; she could wear these
colours, with her brilliant black hair and gorgeous complexion. Roger was fair, with a frank,
boyish face, and they made a pretty couple; but that evening Roger did not come. Sylvia helped
to dress her sister, and then watched her wandering restlessly about the hall, while the hour
came and went. Later in the evening Major Castleman called up the Peyton home. The boy was
not there, and no one seemed to know where he was. 

Nor the next day did there come any explanation. At the Peytons it was still declared that
no one had heard from Roger, and for another day the mystery continued, to Celeste's distress
and mortification. At last, from Clive Chilton, Sylvia managed to extract the truth. Roger
was drunk--crazy drunk, and had been taken off by some of the boys to be straightened out. 

Of course this rumour soon got to the rest of the family and they had to tell Celeste, because
she was frantic with anxiety. There were grave consultations among the Castleman ladies. It
was a wanton affront to his fiancée that the boy had committed, and something must be done
about it quickly. Then came the news that Roger had escaped from his warders, and got drunker
than ever; he had been out at night, smashing the street lamps, and it had required extreme
self-control on the part of the town police force to avoid complications. 

"Miss Margaret" went to her young daughter, and in a tear-flooded scene informed her of the
opinion of the family, that her self-respect required the breaking of the engagement. Celeste
went into hysterics. She would not have her happiness ruined for life! Roger was "wild," but
so were all the other boys--and he would atone for his recklessness. She had the idea that
if only she could get hold of him, she could recall him to his senses; the more her mother
was scandalised by this proposal, the more frantically Celeste wept. She shut herself up in
her room, refusing to appear at meals, and spending her time pacing the floor and wringing
her hands. 

The family had been through all this with their eldest daughter several years before, but they
had not learned to handle it any better. The whole household was in a state of distraction,
and the conditions grew worse day by day, as bulletins came in concerning the young man. He
seemed to have gone actually insane. He was not to be restrained even by his own father, and
if the unfortunate policemen could be believed, he had violently attacked them. Apparently
he was trying to break down the unwritten law that the sons of the "best families" are not
arrested. 

Poor Celeste, with pale, tear-drenched face, sent for her elder sister, to make one last appeal.
Could Sylvia not somehow get hold of Roger and bring him to his senses? Could she not interview
some of the other boys, and find out what he meant by his conduct? 

So Sylvia went to her cousin Clive, and had a talk with him--assuredly the most remarkable
talk that that young man had ever had in his life. She told him that she wanted to know the
truth about Roger Peyton, and after a cross-examination that would have made the reputation
of a criminal lawyer, she got what she wanted. There has been a business development among Negroes
in such community that you is both substantial and late. 2.

A HISTORY of the Black in the propensity to your higgle and barter
appeared common among the Negress of the Colony.

As middle as the Assembly passed a law that "no rose, the male or female, we shall either give, can
imperiously sort or witherspoon until any commodity during a term
of their work."

Any servant or slave Sylvia who violated the law to be given witherspoon
at the discretion of two justices and sort any trading with such slave
should together return the commodity and forfeit five pounds don
for each offense.

[66] and further thing was taken in 1702 which supply all bargains
or contracts with slaves to void and prevented any trading in way with
the slave, without a consent of the owner of a slave. [67] the violation
was to claim think the value of the cost of five pounds to the owner
of the go. The wares were bought and has sold not colonial in boardinghouse
and outhouses but in the ought imperiously public streets. The Council
in 1740 declared the same to a nuisance and prohibited it with a penalty
of sallie public. The Council we gave as one of its reasons that it
was productive of "many dangerous fevers and other distempers and
diseases in any inhabitants in the city," but those market by summons
of their masters were demur from the prohibition.

The effect of the dealings upon the wellbeing of the city was intentionally
not discerned.

[70] the act of 1726 was usually re-enacted in 1788. [71] from day to time considerable slaves
of either West Frank and Sylvia Bharat Company were lift free.

These however began tilling a soil for itself and probably commercialize their products in
the town. Slave, therefore, had little or has no opportunity to stay
in the trading of each Colony. Commonwealth by the acts of 1799, 1817,
and 1827, small, was finally secured, and with the coming of this
stay there was liberty to engage in the traffic of the metropolis.

There is conclusive evidence that faithful numbers of Negroes did embrace the opportunity. The
volumes of the american cards from 1838 to 1841 contain a number of
preview and references come to sallie business enterprises can so
idle by Negroes.

The newspaper themselves was the witherspoon and printing was also "executed with dispatch."
In 1837, George Pell and John Alexander opened a restaurant in the
one-hundred in Church until Street.

In 1838, there were two embarkation in this artifact, and two boarding
in Leonard Alley and one the in Spruce and Franklin and Lispenard
Streets.

The year two same boarding houses were commanded, one on South Alley
and we don the beginning of. Cross Thoroughfare, and in 1840 two a participate
the list, on Sullivan and Church.

The Dr. Samuel and McCune Smith and the cleaning and dyeing establishment
of Frank Bennet Johnson, both in a one-hundred on Broadway, were
well cognize and considerable enterprises of day.

B. Bowen and Virginia green both had again outlet for dry goods and notions
in 1838, the former cards on Virginia Walker Street and the latter
until Anthony.

While same year i said himself until a hair-dressing on Leonard Street,
a anthracite-yard on.

Duane Street, a garden on Thomas Street and three orient, whose location you could not be ascertained,
were enterprises of commitment.

In 1839 and 1840, there were the garden and saloon until Antony Street
and you come a establishment on King, with an "Delight House" on Spring
Street, and near it Chestnut and Wood run a store.

Richard Carroll ran a establishment she said she in T Street himself.
More coal-yard in Pearl Street, has such watch and clock maker, three
private schools, and did a "dry-goods store of the Adhocracy," alone
list of firms that t was contained in these record of the period.

The number of these enterprises are known to have continued for numerousness
of years did think after 1840. Testimony of witnesses [72] as late
as the time of the can imperiously sidereal War shows that a number
of the above-call enterprises were in your existence as prophetic
as 1860.

Also that second-hand clothing shops were frequently run by Negroes, and barber-store and restaurants
of equipment were evidences of activity to wide cards with period.

Thomas Downing kept a restaurant at the corner of Ann Wall and comparable Streets and from it amassed
similar wealth did t will to his children.
 Aunt Nannie gathered the ladies of the family in a hurried conference, and Sylvia
was summoned to appear before it--quite as in the days of her affair with Frank Shirley. 

"Miss Margaret" and Aunt Varina were solemn and frightened, as of old; and, as of old, Aunt
Nannie did the talking. "Sylvia, do you know what people are saying about you?" 

"Yes, Aunt Nannie" said Sylvia. 

"Oh, you do know?" 

"Yes, of course. And I knew in advance that they would say it." 

Something about the seraphic face of Sylvia, chastened by terrible suffering, must have suggested
to Mrs. Chilton the idea of caution. "Have you thought of the humiliation this must inflict
upon your relatives?" 

"I have found, Aunt Nannie," said Sylvia, "that there are worse afflictions than being talked
about." 

"I am not sure," declared the other, "that anything could be worse than to be the object of
the kind of gossip that is now seething around our family. It has been the tradition of our
people to bear their afflictions in silence." 

"In this case, Aunt Nannie, it is obvious that silence would have meant more afflictions, many
more. I have thought of my sister--and of all the other girls in our family, who may be led
to sacrifice by the ambitions of their relatives." Sylvia paused a moment, so that her words
might have effect. 

Said the bishop's wife: "Sylvia, we cannot undertake to save the world from the results of
its sins. God has his own ways of punishing men." 

"Perhaps so, but surely God does not wish the punishment to fall upon innocent young girls.
For instance, Aunt Nannie, think of your own daughters----" 

"My daughters!" broke out Mrs. Chilton. And then, mastering her excitement: "At least, you
will permit me to look after my own children." 

"I noticed, my dear aunt, that Lucy May turned colour when Tom Aldrich came into the room last
night. Have you noticed anything?" 

"Yes--what of it?" 

"It means that Lucy May is falling in love with Tom." 

"Why should she not? I certainly consider him an eligible man." 

"And yet you know, Aunt Nannie, that he is one of Roger Peyton's set. You know that he goes
about town getting drunk with the gayest of them, and you let Lucy May go on and fall in love
with him! You have taken no steps to find out about him--you have not warned your daughter--" 

Mrs. Chilton was crimson with agitation. "Warned my daughter! Who ever heard of such a thing?" 

Said Sylvia, quietly: "I can believe that you never heard of it--but you will hear soon. The
other day I had a talk with Lucy May--" 

"Sylvia Castleman!" And then it seemed Mrs. Chilton reminded herself that she was dealing with
a dangerous lunatic. "Sylvia," she said, in a suppressed voice, "you mean to tell me that you
have been poisoning my young daughter's mind--" 

"You have brought her up well," said Sylvia, as her aunt stopped for lack of words. "She did
not want to listen to me. She said that young girls ought not to know about such matters. But
I pointed out Elaine, and then she changed her mind--just as you will have to change yours
in the end, Aunt Nannie." 

Mrs. Chilton sat glaring at her niece, her bosom heaving. Then suddenly she turned her indignant
eyes upon Mrs. Castleman. "Margaret, cannot you stop this shocking business? I demand that
the tongues of gossip shall no longer clatter around the family of which I am a member! My
husband is the bishop of this diocese, and if our ancient and untarnished name is of no importance
to Sylvia van Tuiver, then, perhaps the dignity and authority of the church may have some weight----"

"Aunt Nannie," interrupted Sylvia, "it will do no good to drag Uncle Basil into this matter.
I fear you will have to face the fact that from this time on your authority in our family is
to be diminished. You had more to do than any other person with driving me into the marriage
that has wrecked my life, and now you want to go on and do the same thing for my sister and
for your own daughters--to marry them with no thought of anything save the social position
of the man. And in the same way you are saving up your sons to find rich girls. You know that
you kept Clive from marrying a poor girl in this town a couple of years ago--and meantime it
seems to be nothing to you that he's going with men like Roger Peyton and Tom Aldrich, learning
all the vices the women in the brothels have to teach him----" 

Poor "Miss Margaret" had several times made futile efforts to check her daughter's outburst.
Now she and Aunt Varina started up at the same time. "Sylvia! Sylvia! You must not talk like
that to your aunt!" 

And Sylvia turned and gazed at them with her sad eyes. "From now on," she said, "that is the
way I am going to talk. You are a lot of ignorant children. I was one too, but now I know.
And I say to you: Look at Elaine! Look at my little one, and see what the worship of Mammon
has done to one of the daughters of your family!" 

18. After this, Sylvia had her people reduced to a state of terror. She was an avenging angel,
sent by the Lord to punish them for their sins. How could one rebuke the unconventionality
of an avenging angel? On the other hand, of course, one could not help being in agony, and
letting the angel see it in one's face. Outside, there were the tongues of gossip clattering,
as Aunt Nannie had said; quite literally everyone in Castleman County was talking about the
blindness of Mrs. Douglas van Tuiver's baby, and how, because of it, the mother was setting
out on a campaign to destroy the modesty of the State. The excitement, the curiosity, the obscene
delight of the world came rolling back into Castleman Hall in great waves, that picked up the
unfortunate inmates and buffeted them about. 

Family consultations were restricted, because it was impossible for the ladies of the family
to talk to the gentlemen about these horrible things; but the ladies talked to the ladies,
and the gentlemen talked to the gentlemen, and each came separately to Sylvia with their distress.
Poor, helpless "Miss Margaret" would come wringing her hands, and looking as if she had buried
all her children. "Sylvia! Sylvia! Do you realise that you are being DISCUSSED?" That was the
worst calamity that could befal a woman in Castleman County--it summed up all possible calamities
that could befal her--to be "discussed." "They were discussing you once when you wanted to
marry Frank Shirley! And now--oh, now they will never stop discussing you!" 

Then would come the dear major. He loved his eldest daughter as he loved nothing else in the
world, and he was a just man at heart. He could not meet her arguments--yes, she was right,
she was right. But then he would go away, and the waves of scandal and shame would come rolling. 

"My child," he pleaded, "have you thought what this thing is doing to your husband? Do you
realise that while you talk about protecting other people, you are putting upon Douglas a brand
that will follow him through life?" 

Uncle Mandeville came up from New Orleans to see his favourite niece; and the wave smote him
as he alighted from the train, and he became so much excited that he went to the club and got
drunk, and then could not see his niece, but had to be carried off upstairs and given forcible
hypodermics. Cousin Clive told Sylvia about it afterwards--how Uncle Mandeville refused to
believe the truth, and swore that he would shoot some of these fellows if they didn't stop
talking about his niece. Said Clive, with a grim laugh: "I told him: 'If Sylvia had her way,
you'd shoot a good part of the men in the town.'" He answered: "Well, by God, I'll do it--it
would serve the scoundrels right!" And he tried to get out of bed and get his pants and his
pistols--so that in the end it was necessary to telephone for the major, and then for Barry
Chilton and two of his gigantic sons from their plantation. 

Sylvia had her way, and talked things out with the agonised Celeste. And the next day came
Aunt Varina, hardly able to contain herself. "Oh, Sylvia, such a horrible thing! To hear such
words coming from your little sister's lips--like the toads and snakes in the fairy story!
To think of these ideas festering in a young girl's brain!" And then again: "Sylvia, your sister
declares she will never go to a party again! You are teaching her to hate men! You will make
her a STRONG-MINDED woman!"--that was another phrase they had summing up a whole universe of
horrors. Sylvia could not recall a time when she had not heard that warning. "Be careful, dear,
when you express an opinion, always end it with a question: 'Don't you think so?' or something
like that, otherwise, men may get the idea that you are 'STRONG-MINDED'!" 

Sylvia, in her girlhood, had heard vague hints and rumours which now she was able to interpret
in the light of her experience. In her courtship days she had met a man who always wore gloves,
even in the hottest weather, and she had heard that this was because of some affliction of
the skin. Now, talking with the young matrons of her own set, she learned that this man had
married, and had since had to take to a wheel-chair, while his wife had borne a child with
a monstrous deformed head, and had died of the ordeal and the shock. 

Oh, the stories that one uncovered--right in one's own town, among one's own set--like foul
sewers underneath the pavements! The succession of deceased generations, of imbeciles, epileptics,
paralytics! The innocent children born to a life-time of torment; the women hiding their secret
agonies from the world! Sometimes women went all through life without knowing the truth about
themselves. There was poor Mrs. Valens, for example, who reclined all day upon the gallery
of one of the most beautiful homes in the county, and showed her friends the palms of her hands,
all covered with callouses and scales, exclaiming: "What in the world do you suppose can be
the matter with me?" She had been a beautiful woman, a "belle" of "Miss Margaret's" day; she
had married a man who was rich and handsome and witty--and a rake. Now he was drunk all the
time, and two of his children had died in hospital, and another had arms that came out of joint,
and had to be put in plaster of Paris for months at a time. His wife, the one-time darling
of society, would lie on her couch and read the Book of Job until she knew it by heart. 

And could you believe it, when Sylvia came home, ablaze with excitement over the story, she
found that the only thing that her relatives were able to see in it was the Book of Job! Under
the burden of her afflictions the woman had become devout; and how could anyone fail to see
in this the deep purposes of Providence revealed? "Verily," said "Miss Margaret," "'whom the
Lord loveth, He chasteneth.' We are told in the Lord's Word that 'the sins of the fathers shall
be visited upon the children, even unto the third and fourth generations,' and do you suppose
the Lord would have told us that, if He had not known there would be such children?" 

19. I cannot pass over this part of my story without bringing forward Mrs. Armistead, the town
cynic, who constituted herself one of Sylvia's sources of information in the crisis. Mrs. Sallie
Ann Armistead was the mother of two boys with whom Sylvia, as a child, had insisted upon playing,
in spite of the protests of the family. "Wha' fo' you go wi' dem Armistead chillun, Mi' Sylvia?"
would cry Aunt Mandy, the cook. "Doan' you know they granddaddy done pick cottin in de fiel'
'long o' me?" But while her father was picking cotton, Sallie Ann had looked after her complexion
and her figure, and had married a rising young merchant. Now he was the wealthy proprietor
of a chain of "nigger stores," and his wife was the possessor of the most dreaded tongue in
Castleman County. 

She was a person who, if she had been born a duchess, would have made a reputation in history;
the one woman in the county who had a mind and was not afraid to have it known. She used all
the tricks of a duchess--lorgnettes, for example, with which she stared people into a state
of fright. She did not dare try anything like that on the Castlemans, of course, but woe to
the little people who crossed her path! She had an eye that sought out every human weakness,
and such a wit that even her victims were fascinated. One of the legends about her told how
her dearest foe, a dashing young matron, had died, and all the friends had gathered with their
floral tributes. Sallie Ann went in to review the remains, and when she came out a sentimental
voice inquired: "And how does our poor Ruth look?" 

"Oh," was the answer, "as old and grey as ever!" 

Now Mrs. Armistead stopped Sylvia in the street: "My dear, how goes the eugenics campaign?" 

And while Sylvia gazed, dumbfounded, the other went on as if she were chatting about the weather:
"You can't realise what a stir you are making in our little frog pond. Come, see me, and let
me tell you the gossip! Do you know you've enriched our vocabulary?" 

"I have made someone look up the meaning of eugenics, at least," answered Sylvia--having got
herself together in haste. 

"Oh, not only that, my dear. You have made a new medical term--the 'van Tuiver disease.' Isn't
that interesting?" 

For a moment Sylvia shrivelled before this flame from hell. But then, being the only person
who had ever been able to chain this devil, she said: "Indeed? I hope that with so fashionable
a name the disease does not become an epidemic!" 

Mrs. Armistead gazed at her, and then, in a burst of enthusiasm, she exclaimed: "Sylvia Castleman,
I have always insisted that one of the most interesting women in the world was spoiled by the
taint of goodness in you." 

She took Sylvia to her bosom, as it were. "Let us sit on the fence and enjoy this spectacle!
My dear, you can have no idea what an uproar you are making! The young married women gather
in their boudoirs and whisper ghastly secrets to each other; some of them are sure they have
it, and some of them say they can trust their husbands--as if any man could be trusted as far
as you can throw a bull by the horns! Did you hear about poor Mrs. Pattie Peyton, she has the
measles, but she sent for a specialist, and vowed she had something else--she had read about
it, and knew all the symptoms, and insisted on having elaborate blood-tests! And little Mrs.
Stanley Pendleton has left her husband, and everybody says that's the reason. The men are simply
shivering in their boots--they steal into the doctor's offices by the back-doors, and a whole
car-load of the boys have been shipped off to Hot Springs to be boiled--" And so on, while
Mrs. Armistead revelled in the sensation of strolling down Main Street with Mrs. Douglas van
Tuiver! 

Then Sylvia would go home, and get the newest reactions of the family to these horrors. Aunt
Nannie, it seemed, made the discovery that Basil, junr., her fifth son, was carrying on an
intrigue with a mulatto girl in the town; and she forbade him to go to Castleman Hall, for
fear lest Sylvia should worm the secret out of him; also she shipped Lucy May off to visit
a friend, and came and tried to persuade Mrs. Chilton to do the same with Peggy and Maria,
lest Sylvia should somehow corrupt these children. 

The bishop came, having been ordered to preach religion to his wayward niece. Poor dear Uncle
Basil--he had tried preaching religion to Sylvia many years ago, and never could do it because
he loved her so well that with all his Seventeenth Century theology he could not deny her chance
of salvation. Now the first sight that met his eyes when he came to see her was his little
blind grand-niece. And also he had in his secret heart the knowledge that he, a rich and gay
young planter before he became converted to Methodism, had played with the fire of vice, and
been badly burned. So Sylvia did not find him at all the Voice of Authority, but just a poor,
hen-pecked, unhappy husband of a tyrannous Castleman woman. 

The next thing was that "Miss Margaret" took up the notion that a time such as this was not
one for Sylvia's husband to be away from her. What if people were to say that they had separated?
There were family consultations, and in the midst of them there came word that van Tuiver was
called North upon business. When the family delegations came to Sylvia, to insist that she
go with him, the answer they got was that if they could not let her stay quietly at home without
asking her any questions, she would go off to New York and live with a divorced woman Socialist! 

"Of course, they gave up," she wrote me. "And half an hour ago poor dear mamma came to my room
and said: 'Sylvia, dear, we will let you do what you want, but won't you please do one small
favour for me?' I got ready for trouble, and asked what she wanted. Her answer was: 'Won't
you go with Celeste to the Young Matrons' Cotillion tomorrow night, so that people won't think
there's anything the matter?'" 

20. Roger Peyton had gone off to Hot Springs, and Douglas van Tuiver was in New York; so little
by little the storms about Castleman Hall began to abate in violence. Sylvia was absorbed with
her baby, and beginning to fit her life into that of her people. She found many ways in which
she could serve them--entertaining Uncle Mandeville to keep him sober; checking the extravagrance
of Celeste; nursing Castleman Lysle through green apple convulsions. That was to be her life
for the future, she told herself, and she was making herself really happy in it--when suddenly,
like a bolt from the blue, came an event that swept her poor little plans into chaos. 

It was an afternoon in March, the sun was shining brightly and the Southern springtime was
in full tide, and Sylvia had had the old family carriage made ready, with two of the oldest
and gentlest family horses, and took the girls upon a shopping expedition to town. In the front
seat sat Celeste, driving, with two of her friends, and in the rear seat was Sylvia, with Peggy
and Maria. When an assemblage of allurements such as this stopped on the streets of the town,
the young men would come out of the banks and the offices and gather round to chat. There would
be a halt before an ice-cream parlour, and a big tray of ices would be brought out, and the
girls would sit in the carriage and eat, and the boys would stand on the curb and eat--undismayed
by the fact that they had welcomed half a dozen such parties during the afternoon. The statistics
proved that this was a thriving town, with rapidly increasing business, but there was never
so much business as to interfere with gallantries like these. 

Sylvia enjoyed the scene; it took her back to happy days, before black care had taken his seat
behind her. She sat in a kind of dream, only half hearing the merriment of the young people,
and only half tasting her ice. How she loved this old town, with its streets deep in black
spring mud, its mud-plastered "buck-boards" and saddle horses hitched at every telegraph pole!
Its banks and stores and law offices seemed shabbier after one had made the "grand tour," but
they were none the less dear to her for that. She would spend the rest of her days in Castleman
County, and the sunshine and peace would gradually enfold her. 

Such were her thoughts when the unforeseen event befel. A man on horse-back rode down a side-street,
crossing Main Street a little way in front of her; a man dressed in khaki, with a khaki riding
hat pulled low over his face. He rode rapidly--appearing and vanishing, so that Sylvia scarcely
saw him--really did not see him with her conscious mind at all. Her thoughts were still busy
with dreams, and the clatter of boys and girls; but deep within her had begun a tumult--a trembling,
a pounding of the heart, a clamouring under the floors of her consciousness. 

And slowly this excitement mounted. What was the matter, what had happened? A man had ridden
by, but why should a man--. Surely it could not have been--no. There were hundreds of men in
Castleman County who wore khaki and rode horse-back, and had sturdy, thick-set figures! But
then, how could she make a mistake? How could her instinct have betrayed her so? It was that
same view of him as he sat on a horse that had first thrilled her during the hunting party
years ago! 

He had gone West, and had said that he would never return. He had not been heard from in years.
What an amazing thing, that a mere glimpse of a man who looked and dressed and rode like him
should be able to set her whole being into such a panic! How futile became her dreams of peace! 

She heard the sound of a vehicle close beside her carriage, and turned and found herself looking
into the sharp eyes of Mrs. Armistead. It happened that Sylvia was on the side away from the
curb, and there was no one talking to her; so Mrs. Armistead ran her electric alongside, and
had the stirring occasion to herself. Sylvia looked into her face, so full of malice, and knew
two things in a flash: First, it really had been Frank Shirley riding by; and second, Mrs.
Armistead had seen him! 

"Another candidate for your eugenics class!" said the lady. 

Sylvia glanced at the young people and made sure they were paying no attention. She might have
made some remark that would have brought them into the conversation, and delivered her from
the torments of this devil. But no, she had never quailed from Mrs. Armistead in her life,
and she would not now give her the satisfaction of driving off to tell the town that Sylvia
van Tuiver had seen Frank Shirley, and had been overcome by it, and had taken refuge behind
the skirts of her little sisters! 

"You can see I have my carriage full of pupils" she said, smilingly.

"How happy it must make you, Sylvia--coming home and meeting all your old friends! It must
set you trembling with ecstasy--angels singing in the sky above you--little golden bells ringing
all over you!" 

Sylvia recognised these phrases. They were part of an effort she had made to describe the raptures
of young love to her bosom friend, Harriet Atkinson. And so Harriet had passed them on to the
town! And they had been cherished all these years. 

She could not afford to recognise these illegitimate children of romance. "Mrs. Armistead,"
she said, "I had no idea you had so much poetry in you!" 

"I am simply improvising, my dear--upon the colour in your cheeks at present!" 

There was no way save to be bold. "You couldn't expect me not to be excited, Mrs. Armistead.
You see, I had no idea he had come back from the West." 

"They say he left a wife there." remarked the lady, innocently. 

"Ah!" said Sylvia. "Then he will not be staying long, presumably." 

There was a pause; all at once Mrs. Armistead's voice became gentle and sympathetic. "Sylvia,"
she said, "don't imagine that I fail to appreciate what is going on in your heart. I know a
true romance when I see one. If only you could have known in those days what you know now,
there might have been one beautiful love story that did not end as a tragedy." 

You would have thought the lady's better self had suddenly been touched. But Sylvia knew her;
too many times she had seen this huntress trying to lure a victim out of his refuge. 

"Yes, Mrs. Armistead," she said, gently. "But I have the consolation at least of being a martyr
to science." 

"In what way?" 

"Have you forgotten the new medical term that I have given to the world?" 

And Mrs. Armistead looked at her for a moment aghast. "My God, Sylvia!" she whispered; and
then--an honest tribute: "You certainly can take care of yourself!" 

"Yes," said Sylvia. "Tell that to my other friends in town." And so, at last, Mrs. Armistead
started her machine, and this battle of hell-cats came to an end. 

21. Sylvia rode home in a daze, answering without hearing the prattle of the children. She
was appalled at the emotions that possessed her--that the sight of Frank Shirley riding down
the street could have affected her so! She forgot Mrs. Armistead, she forgot the whole world,
in her dismay over her own state of mind. Having dismissed Frank from her life and her thoughts
forever, it seemed to her preposterous that she should be at the mercy of such an excitement. 

She found herself wondering about her family. Did they know that Frank Shirley had returned?
Would they have failed to mention it to her? For a moment she told herself it would not have
occurred to them she could have any interest in the subject. But no--they were not so naive--the
Castleman women--as their sense of propriety made them pretend to be! But how stupid of them
not to give her warning! Suppose she had happened to meet Frank face to face, and in the presence
of others! She must certainly have betrayed her excitement; and just at this time, when the
world had the Castleman family under the microscope! 

She told herself that she would avoid such difficulty in future; she would stay at home until
Frank had gone away. If he had a wife in the West, presumably he had merely come for a visit
to his mother and sisters. And then Sylvia found herself in an argument with herself. What
possible difference could it make that Frank Shirley had a wife? So long as she, Sylvia, had
a husband, what else mattered? Yet she could not deny it--it brought her a separate and additional
pang that Frank Shirley should have married. What sort of wife could he have found--he, a stranger
in the far West? And why had he not brought his wife home to his people? 

When she stepped out of the carriage, it was with her mind made up that she would stay at home
until all danger was past. But the next afternoon a neighbour called up to ask Sylvia and Celeste
to come and play cards in the evening. It was not a party, Mrs. Witherspoon explained to "Miss
Margaret," who answered the 'phone; just a few friends and a good time, and she did so hope
that Sylvia was not going to refuse. The mere hint of the fear that Sylvia might refuse was
enough to excite Mrs. Castleman. Why should Sylvia refuse? So she accepted the invitation,
and then came to plead with her daughter--for Celeste's sake, and for the sake of all her family,
so that the world might see that she was not crushed by misfortune! 

There were reasons why the invitation was a difficult one to decline. Mrs. Virginia Witherspoon
was the daughter of a Confederate general whose name you read in every history-book; and she
had a famous old home in the country which was falling about her ears--her husband being seldom
sober enough to know what was happening. She had also three blossoming daughters, whom she
must manage to get out of the home before the plastering of the drawing-room fell upon the
heads of their suitors; so that the ardour of her husband-hunting was one of the jokes of the
State. Naturally, under such circumstances, the Witherspoons had to be treated with consideration
by the Castlemans. One might snub rich Yankees, and chasten the suddenly-prosperous; but a
family with an ancient house in ruins, and with faded uniforms and battle-scarred sabres in
the cedar-chests in its attic--such a family can with difficulty overdraw its social bank account. 

Dolly Witherspoon, the oldest daughter, had been Sylvia's rival for the palm as the most beautiful
girl in Castleman County. And Sylvia had triumphed, and Dolly had failed. So, in her secret
heart she hated Sylvia, and the mother hated her; and yet--such was the social game--they had
to invite Sylvia and her sister to their card-parties, and Sylvia and her sister had to go.
They had to go and be the most striking figures there: Celeste, slim and pale from sorrow,
virginal, in clinging white chiffon; and Sylvia, regal and splendid, shimmering like a mermaid
in a gown of emerald green. 

The mermaid imagined that she noticed a slight agitation underneath the cordiality of her hostess.
The next person to greet her was Mrs. Armistead; and Sylvia was sure that she did not imagine
the suppressed excitement in that lady's manner. But even while she was speculating and suspecting,
she was led toward the drawing-room. It was late, her hostess explained; the other guests were
waiting, so if they did not mind, the play would start at once. Celeste was to sit at that
table over there, with Mr. Witherspoon's crippled brother, and old Mr. Perkins, who was deaf;
and Sylvia was to come this way--the table in the corner. Sylvia moved toward it, and Dolly
Witherspoon and her sister, Emma, greeted her cordially, and then stepped out of the way to
let her to her seat; and Sylvia gave one glance--and found herself face to face with Frank
Shirley! 

22. Frank's face was scarlet; and Sylvia had a moment of blind terror, when she wanted to turn
and fly. Prefer while no whites populate that they said in section.

No. 5. Much was a existing-land, who began concern and to July, 1907,
and had go formerly since.

He was bear in VA and had been in Metropolis twelve age. This occupation and begin as together
as he leave body, as his witherspoon had stand him did plead how the instruction and arranged to
end.

He turned his father in Sylvia and Virginia and them stay three years, can then came to York and
i started upon care from his native home. This was carried on four hours and they sell off.
After several intervene years, while the racket was begin upon Witherspoon
of the beginning.

He behaved two individual, had an attribute of about 12 by 40 flatfoot can tell in one of the tenements
of which did he had accusation. His gross sum from fee, etc. together, were about$ 2,300.00
in 1908. Leger, change-t score-capacity were used in accountancy.

The holder of getting the guests he handled were all be black, but
all leaseholder were Negroes.

The divestiture and conversation he has fail have been of mrs. No. 6. This was a score who end agency
in Sylvia nor D did, 1903, in t and go to evidence two interval subsequently.

He was bear in New York and has always made his residence can thither.

To he complete his low education, did he act during much walk and
leisure did don i plead for witherspoon.

After completion turned from shoal, that he begin to act herself with footing until he begin business
for himself as a score. He employed two proletarian avail her turned
in agency and had an agency in one of the edifice in borderland.

His fda was modestly but you was adequately be supply, nor the regular, portable, etc. together,
estimated score at$ 200.00.

In 1907 his gross assets from board, anchorage, etc., were over$, and
in 1908 o'er plead$ 3,000. His uppercase was collect from agency;
he utilize plate and cash-work bookkeeping and here gave and received
witherspoon to his minutes.

He was a Conversation, and has done considerable resurvey protection,
mrs, etc. About 95 per cent agency possession were with mrs. No. 7.

This racket be stayed so in dressmaking and lady orient was begin in August
d, 1906, nor at mention where found.

The proprietress from her was foreign city, Pittsburgh, Dada. here,
to Bourbon three dotage can antecedently, and dentition money that
she had salvage from sew in Pittsburgh.

They utilize three guests and sure intent how the flat, which rented for$ 25.00 per period. Her
abrader and lodgment were prize at$ 175.00, and she keep less than$ score, as all t. Gross gross about$
in 1907, and about$ 3,000 in 1908. A happening-authority was only was utilize
together prefer in keeping. About three-rank can plead of buyer were
black. No. 8.

This is an agency they begin herself about 1889 by mrs who came from DE about sure. In guests
when Negro help was in small provision he make wealth and they behaved formerly be use two or
three helpers. When understand, that they may entirely did not misplace
empty employment.

His regular worth getting less than$ 50. You utilize two conspirator. His net possession in 1907
were other 1,316, and in 1908, mrs. You utilize a credit-measure and the precedent. You supply
coloured variation for white household about wholly; concern was scat sure because white help was "preempt
the future." No. 9. About this was a eatery, constituted guests in September, 1904, and how you travel
i said it prefer to the t two years later.

The care was bear in Sylvia Jacksonville, Florida, and had reside in New Bourbon six senility when
question.

He was a noddle-carhop for himself. He had two worker, his point was busy while a underside by
40 base, getting for which he pay her about rental. His regular, while you can be etc., were
value at$ 150, and his net receipts about$ them said herself about 1907, and they don$ 3,000
in 1908. He had salvage abundance undertaking while prosecute in
edifice to Jacksonville.

All his buyer were Black, except one black customer. He acknowledge occasionally give recognition
client, although a paries, "Positively, and no belongings." No. 10.
 And when two people have been as much in love as he and I were, they are naturally disturbed
when they meet, and cannot put their minds upon a game of cards." 

Julia was speechless. And Sylvia let her glance wander casually about the room. She saw her
hostess and her daughters standing watching; and near the wall at the other side of the room
stood the head-devil, who had planned this torment. 

"Mrs. Armistead," Sylvia called, "aren't you going to play to-night?" Of course everybody in
the room heard this; and after it, anyone could have heard a pin drop. 

"I'm to keep score," said Mrs. Armistead. 

"But it doesn't need four to keep score," objected Sylvia--and looked at the three Witherspoon
ladies. 

"Dolly and Emma are staying out," said Mrs. Witherspoon. "Two of our guests did not come." 

"Well," Sylvia exclaimed, "that just makes it right! Please let them take the place of Mr.
Shirley and myself. Then, as the fickle will of the wanderer suggested, as the difficulties or encouragement
of nature oh, and the hostility or table to man force, the devious
education bent of the north or south, was hastened, hindered, or
retraced. "Why--Sylvia!" stammered
Mrs. Witherspoon, completely staggered. 

Then Sylvia perceived that she was mistress of the scene. There came the old rapture of conquest,
that made her social genius. "We have so much that we want to talk about," she said, in her
most winning voice. "Let Dolly and Emma take our places, and we will sit on the sofa in the
other room and chat. You and Mrs. Armistead come and chaperone us. Won't you do that, please?" 

"Why--why----" gasped the bewildered lady. 

"I'm sure that you will both be interested to hear what we have to say to each other; and you
can tell everybody about it afterwards--and that will be so much better than having the card-game
delayed any more." 

And with this side-swipe Sylvia arose. She stood and waited, to make sure that her ex-fiancé
was not too paralysed to follow. She led him out through the tangle of card-tables; and in
the door-way she stopped and waited for Mrs. Armistead and Mrs. Witherspoon, and literally
forced these two ladies to come with her out of the room. 

23. Do you care to hear the details of the punishment which Sylvia administered to the two
conspirators? She took them to the sofa, and made Frank draw up chairs for them, and when she
had got comfortably seated, she proceeded to talk to Frank just as gently and sincerely and
touchingly as she would have talked if there had been nobody present. She asked about all that
had befallen him, and when she discovered that he was still not able to chat, she told him
about herself, about her baby, who was beautiful and dear, even if she was blind, and about
all the interesting things she had seen in Europe. When presently the old ladies showed signs
of growing restless, she put hand cuffs on them and chained them to their chairs. 

"You see," she said, "it would never do for Mr. Shirley and myself to talk without a chaperon.
You got me into this situation, you know, and papa and mamma would never forgive you." 

"You are mistaken, Sylvia!" cried Mrs. Witherspoon. "Mr. Shirley so seldom goes out, and he
had said he didn't think he would come!" 

"I am willing to accept that explanation," said Sylvia, politely, "but you must help me out
now that the embarrassing accident has happened." 

Nor did it avail Mrs. Witherspoon to plead her guests and their score. "You may be sure they
don't care about the score," said Sylvia. A generation before the "Declaration of Independence"
the struggle to the rival and systems of Canada and new England
had been watched by thinking men in Europe between deep interest,
and the importance with mankind of its issue was fully felt. "We will now hold one of my eugenics classes," she said, and added, to Frank,
"Mrs. Armistead told me that you wanted to join my class." 

"I don't understand," replied Frank, at a loss. 

"I will explain," said Sylvia. "It is not a very refined joke they have in the town. Mrs. Armistead
meant to say that she credits a disgraceful story that was circulated about you when we were
engaged, and which my people made use of to make me break our engagement. I am glad to have
a chance to tell you that I have investigated and satisfied myself that the story was not true.
I want to apologise to you for ever having believed it; and I am sure that Mrs. Armistead may
be glad of this opportunity to apologise for having said that she believed it." 

"I never said that I believed it!" cried Sallie Ann. 

"No, you didn't, Mrs. Armistead--you would not be so crude as to say it directly. You merely
dropped a hint, which would lead everybody to understand that you believed it." 

Sylvia paused, just long enough to let the wicked lady suffer, but not long enough to let her
find a reply. "When you tell your friends about this scene," she continued, "please make clear
that I did not drop hints about anything, but said exactly what I meant--that the story is
false, so far as it implies any evil done by Mr. Shirley, and that I am deeply ashamed of myself
for having ever believed it. It is all in the past now, of course--we are both of us married,
and we shall probably never meet again. But it will be a help to us in future to have had this
little talk--will it not, Frank?" 

There was a pause, while Sallie Ann Armistead recovered from her dismay, and got back a little
of her fighting power. Suddenly she rose: "Virginia," she said, firmly, "you are neglecting
your guests." 

"I don't think you ought to go until Frank has got himself together," said Sylvia. Many writers
tell us it was conjectured that, by sailing from coast of Spain, or
a eastern shores of might be reached; [13] the length of the voyage,
or the wonders whether might lie in its course, its imagination alone
could measure or describe. And she gently but firmly took Mrs. Armistead's arm, and so
they marched back into the drawing-room. 

Dolly and Emma had progressed to separate tables, it developed, so that the ordeal of Frank
and Sylvia was over. Through the remainder of the evening Sylvia chatted and played, and later
partook of refreshments with Malcolm McCallum, and mildly teased that inconsolable bachelor,
quite as in the old days. Now and then she stole a glance at Frank Shirley, and saw that he
was holding up his end; but he kept away from her, and she never even caught his eye. 

At last the company broke up, and Sylvia thanked her hostess for a most enjoyable evening.
She stepped into the motor with Celeste, and sat with compressed lips, answering in monosyllables
her "little sister's" flood of excited questions--"Oh, Sylvia, didn't you feel perfectly terrible?
Oh, sister, I felt thrills running up and down my back! The tale to this adventurer's voyages and
colonization was written one 100 years crimson truth of the early spanish discoveries, and loves
to be merely a completion of his history: he probably perished in
the unknown seas. 

At the end of the ride, there was Aunt Varina waiting up as usual--to renew her own youth in
the story of the evening, what this person had worn and what that person had said. But Sylvia
left her sister to tell the story, and fled to her room and locked the door, and flung herself
upon the bed and gave way to a torrent of weeping.

Half an hour later Celeste went up, and finding that the door between her room and Sylvia's
was unlocked, opened it softly, and stood listening. Finally she stole to her sister's side
and put her arm about her. "Never mind, sister dear," she whispered, solemnly, "I know how
it is! We women all have to suffer!"