Neatly clad and modest-looking females, native converts to Christianity, are walking in orderly
procession to church, testaments in hand, as I wheel through the streets of Delhi on Sunday
morning toward the Agra road. Very interesting is it to see these dusky daughters of heathendom
arrayed in modest white muslin gowns, their lithe and graceful forms freed from the barbarous
jewellery that distinguishes the persons of their unconverted sisters. Very charming do they
look in their Christianized simplicity and self-contained demeanor as they walk quietly, and
at a becoming Sabbath-day pace, two by two, down the Chandni Chouk. They present an instructive
comparison to the straggling groups of heathen damsels who watch them curiously as they walk
past and then proceed to chant idolatrous songs, apparently in a spirit of wanton raillery
at the Christian maidens and their simple, un-ornamented attire. The fair heathens of Delhi
have a sort of naughty, Parisian reputation throughout the surrounding country, and so there
is nothing surprising in this exhibition of wanton hilarity directed at these more strait-laced
converts to the religion of the Ferenghis. The heathen damsels, arrayed in very worldly costumes,
consisting of flaring red, yellow, and blue garments, the whole barbaric and ostentatious array
of nose-rings, ear-rings, armlets, anklets, rupee necklaces, and pendents, and the multifarious
gewgaws of Hindoo womankind, look surpassingly wicked and saucy in comparison with their converted
sisters. The gentle converts try hard to regard their heathen songs with indifference, and
to show by their very correct deportment the superiority of meekness, virtue, and Christianity
over gaudy clothes, vulgar silver jewellery, and heathenism. The whole scene reminds one very
forcibly of a gang of wicked street-boys at home, poking fun at a Sunday-school procession
or a platoon of Salvation Army soldiers parading the streets.

Past the Queen's Gardens and the fort, down a long street of native shops, and out of the Delhi
gate I wheel, past the grim battlements of Firozabad, along a rather flinty road that extends
for ten miles, after which commences again the splendid kunkah. Villages are numerous, and
the country populous; tombs and the ruins of cities dot the landscape, pahnee-chowkees, where
yellow Brahmans dispense water to thirsty wayfarers, line the road, and at one point three
splendid, massive archways, marking some place that has lost its former importance, span my road.

Hindoos are now the prevailing race, and their religion finds frequent expression in idol temples
and shrines beneath little roadside groves. The night is spent on the porch of a dak bungalow
just outside the walls of Pullwal, a typical Hindoo city, with all its curious display of hideous
idols, idolatrous paintings, and beautiful carved temples with gilded spires. The groves about
the bungalow are literally swarming with green parrots; in big flocks they sweep past near
my charpoy, producing a great wh-r-r-r-ring commotion with their wings. A flock of parrots
may be so far aloft as to be well-nigh beyond the range of human vision in the ethery depths,
but the noise of their wings will be plainly audible.

A two hours' terrific downpour delays me at the village of Hodell next day, and affords an
opportunity to inspect an ordinary little Hindoo village temple. The captain of the police-thana
sends a tall Sikh policeman to show me in. The temple is only a small tapering marble edifice
about thirty feet high, surmounted by a gilded crescent, and resting on a hollow plinth, the
hollow of which provides quarters for the priest. One is expected to remove his foot-gear before
going inside, the same as in a Mohammedan mosque. A taper is burning in a niche of the wall;
mural paintings of snakes, many-handed gods, bulls, monsters, and mythical deities create a
cheap and garish impression. In the centre of the floor is a marble linga, and grouped around
it a miniature man, woman, and elephant; before these are laid offerings of flowers. The interior
of the temple is not more than eight feet square, a mere cell in which the deities are housed;
the worshippers mostly perform their prostrations on the plinth outside. The villagers gather
in a crowd about the temple and watch every movement of my brief inspection; they seem pleased
at the sight of a Sahib honoring their religion by removing his shoes and carefully respecting
their feelings. When I descend from the plinth they fall back and greet me with smiles and salaams.

The rain clears up and I forge ahead, finding the kunkah road-bed none the worse for the drenching
it has just received. Hour by hour one gets more surprised at the multitudes of pedestrians
on the road; neither rain nor sun seems to affect their number. Some of the costumes observed
are quite startling in their ingenuity and effect. One garment much affected by the Rajput
women are yellowish shawls or mantles, phool-karis, in which, are set numerous small circular
mirrors about the circumference of a silver half-dollar; the effect of these in the bright
Indian sun, as the wearer trudges along in the distance, is as though she were all ablaze with
gems. Whenever I wheel past a group of Rajput females, they either stand with averted faces
or cover up their heads with their shawls.

The road-inspector's bungalow at Chattee affords me shelter, and an intelligent native gentleman,
who speaks a misleading quality of English, supplies me with a supper of curried rice and fowl.
Hard by is a Hindoo temple, whence at sunset issue the sweetest chimes imaginable from a peal
of silver-toned bells. My charpoy is placed on the porch facing the east, and soon the rotund
face of the rising moon floats above the trees, and the silvery tinkle of the bells is followed
by a chorus of jackals paying their noisy compliments to its loveliness. My slumbers can hardly
be said to be unbroken to-night, three pariah dogs have taken a fancy to my quarters; two of
them sit on their haunches and howl dismally in response to the jackals, while number three
reclines sociably beneath my charpoy and growls at the others as though constituting himself
my protector. Some Indian Romeo is serenading his dusky Juliet in the neighboring town; flocks
of roysteriug parrots go whirring past at all hours of the night, and a too liberal indulgence
in red-hot curry keeps me on the verge of a nightmare almost till the silvery tinkle-tinkle
of the Brahman bells announces the break of day.

Cynics have sometimes denounced Christians as worse than the heathens, in requiring loud church-bells
to summon them to worship. Such, it appears, are putting the case rather thoughtlessly. Mohammedans
have their muezzins, while both Christians and idolaters have their chiming bells. Neither
Christians, nor Mohammedans, nor heathens need these agencies to summon them to their respective
worldly enjoyments, so that, taken all in all, we are pretty much alike--cynics, notwithstanding,
to the contrary, we are little or no worse than the heathens.

A loudly wailing woman with her head covered up, and supported between two companions who are
vainly trying to console her, and a party conveying two cassowaries, a pair of white peacocks,
and a kangaroo from Calcutta to some rajah's menagerie up country, are among the curiosities
encountered on the road the following day. Spending the afternoon and night in the quarters
of the Third Dragoon Guards at Muttra Cantonment, I resume my journey early in the morning,
dodging from shelter to shelter to avoid frequent heavy showers.

It is but thirty-five miles from Muttra to Agra, and notwithstanding showers and heat, the
distance is covered by half-past ten. Wheeling at this pace, however, is an indiscretion, and
the completion of the stretch is signalized by a determination to seek shade and quiet for
the remainder of the day. Once again the sociable officers of the garrison tender me the hospitality
of their quarters, and the ensuing day is spent in visiting that wonder of the world, the Taj
Mahal, Akbar's fort, and other wonderful monuments of the palmy days of the Mogul Empire.

Finer and more imposing in appearance even than the fort at Delhi, is that at Agra. Walls of
red sandstone, seventy feet high, and a mile and a half in circuit, picturesquely crenellated,
and with imposing gateways and a deep, broad moat, Complete a work of stupendous dimensions.
One is overcome with a sense of grandeur upon first beholding these Indian palace-forts, after
seeing nothing more imposing than mud walls in Persia and Afghanistan; they are magnificent
looking structures. The contrast, too, of the red sandstone walls and gates and ramparts, with
the white marble buildings of the royal quarters, is very striking. The domes of the latter,
seen at a distance, seem like snow-white bubbles resting ever so lightly and airily upon the
darker mass; one almost expects to see them rise up and float away on the passing zephyrs like
balloons.

Passing inside over a drawbridge and through the massive Delhi Gate, we proceed into the interior
of the fort, traversing a broad ascent of sandstone pavement. Everything around us shows evidence
of unstinted outlay in design, execution, and completion of detail in the carrying out of a
stupendous undertaking. Everywhere the spirit of Akbar the Magnificent seems to hover amid
his creations. One emerges from the covered gateway and the walled corrugated causeway, upon
the parade ground. Crenellated walls, a park of artillery, and roomy English barracks greet
the vision. Sentinels--Sepoy sentinels in huge turbans, and English sentinels in white sun-helmets--are
pacing their beats. But not on these does the gaze of the visitor rest. Straight ahead of him
there rises, above the red sandstone walls and the bare parade ground, three marble domes,
white as newly-fallen snow, and just beyond are seen the gilt pinnacles of Akbar's palace.

We wander among the beautiful marble creations, gaze in wonder at the snowy domes supported
on marble pillars, mosaiced with jasper, agate, blood-stone, lapis-lazuli, and other rare stones.
We stand on the white marble balustrades, carved so exquisitely as to resemble lace-work, and
we look out upon the yellow waters of the Jumna, flowing sluggishly along seventy feet below.
Here is where the Grand Mogul, Akbar, used to sit and watch elephant fights and boat races.
There are none of these to be seen now; but that does not mean that the prospect is either
tame or uninteresting. The banks of the Jumna are alive with hundreds of dusky natives engaged
in washing clothes and spreading linen out in the sun to bleach. The prospect beyond is a revelation
of vegetable luxuriance and wealth, and of historical reminiscence in the shape of ruins and tombs.

One's eyes, however, are drawn away from the contemplation of the picturesque life below, and
from the prospect of grove and garden and crumbling tombs, by the mesmerism, of the crowning
glory of all Indian architectural triumphs, the famous Taj. This matchless mausoleum rests
on the right-hand bank of the Jumna, about a mile down stream. The Taj, with its marvellous
beauty and snowy whiteness, seems to cast a spell over the beholder, from the first; one can
no more keep his eyes off it, when it is within one's range of vision, than he can keep from
breathing. It draws one's attention to itself as irresistibly as though its magnetism were
a living and breathing force exerted directly to that end. It is the subtlety of its unapproachable
loveliness, commanding homage from all beholders, whether they will or no.

We turn away from it awhile, however, and find ample scope for admiration close at hand. We
tread the marble aisles of the Pearl Mosque, considered the most perfect gem of its kind in
existence. One stands in its court-yard and finds himself in the chaste and exclusive companionship
of snowy marble and blue sky. One feels almost ill at ease, as though conscious of being an
imperfect thing, marring perfection by his presence. "Quiet as a nun, breathless with adoration,"
one enthusiastic visitor exclaims, in an effort to put his sentiments and impressions of the
Moti Mesjid into words. Like this adoring traveller, the average visitor will rest content
to be carried away by the contemplation of its chaste beauty, without prying around for possible
defects in the details of the particular school of architecture it graces. He will have little
patience with carping critics who point to the beautiful screens, of floriated marble tracery,
and say: "Nuns should not wear collars of point lace."

From the Moti Mesjid, we visit the Shish Mahal, or mirrored bath-rooms. The chambers and passages
here remind me of the mirrored rooms of Persia; here, as there, thousands of tiny mirrors are
used in working out various intricate designs. My three uniformed companions at once reflect
not less than half a regiment of British soldiers therein.

From the fort we drive in a native gharri to the Taj, a mile-drive through suburban scenery,
plantain-gardens, groves, and ruins. In approaching the garden of the Taj, one passes through
a bazaar, where the skilful Hindoo artisans are busy making beautiful inlaid tables, inkstands,
plates, and similar fancies, as well as models of the Taj, out of white Jeypore marble. These
are the hereditary descendants and successors of the men who in the palmy days of the Mogul
power spent their lives in decorating the royal palaces and tombs with mosaics and tracery.
Nowadays their skill is expended on mere articles of virtue, to be sold to European tourists
and English officers. Some of them are occasionally employed by the Indian Government to repair
the work desecrated by vandals during the mutiny, and under the purely commercial government
of the East India Company. One curious phase of this work is, that the men employed to replace
with imitations the original stones that have been stolen receive several times higher pay
than the men in Akbar's time, who did such splendid work that it is not to be approached, these
days. Several months' imprisonment is now the penalty of prying out stones from the mosaic-work
of the Taj.

This lovely structure has been described so often by travellers that one can scarce venture
upon a description without seeming to repeat what has already been said by others. One of the
best descriptions of its situation and surroundings is given by Bayard Taylor. He says: "The
Taj stands on the bank of the Jumna, rather more than a mile to the eastward of the Fort of
Agra. It is approached by a handsome road cut through the mounds left by the ruins of ancient
palaces. It stands in a large garden, inclosed by a lofty wall of red sandstone, with arched
galleries around the interior, and entered by a superb gateway of sandstone, inlaid with ornaments
and inscriptions from the Koran in white marble. Outside this grand portal, however, is a spacious
quadrangle of solid masonry, with an elegant structure, intended as a caravanserai, on the
opposite side. Whatever may be the visitor's impatience, he cannot help pausing to notice the
fine proportions of these structures, and the massive style of their construction. Passing
under the open demi-vault, whose arch hangs high above you, an avenue of dark Italian cypress
appears before you. Down its centre sparkles a long row of fountains, each casting up a single
slender jet.

Of the Taj itself, fault has been found with its proportions by severe critics, like the party
who regards the Moti Mesjid "nun" as faulty because she wears a point-lace collar; but the
ordinary visitor will find room for nothing but admiration and wonder. It is hard to believe
that there is any defect, even in its proportions, for so perfect do these latter appear, that
one is astonished to learn that it is a taller building than the Kootub Minar. One would never
guess it to be anywhere near so tall as 243 feet. The building rests on a plinth of white marble,
eighteen feet high and a hundred yards square. At each corner of the plinth stands a minaret,
also of white marble, and 137 feet high. The mausoleum itself occupies the central space, measuring
in depth and width 186 feet. It is not a great national temple erected by a free and united
people, it owes its creation to the whim of an absolute ruler who was free to squander the
resources of the State in commemorating his personal sorrows or his vanity."

Another distinguished visitor, commenting on the criticisms of those who profess to have discovered
defects, says: "The Taj is like a lovely woman; abuse her as you please, but the moment you
come into her presence, you submit to its fascination."

"If to her share some female errors fall, Look in her face, and you'll forget them all."

Passing beneath the vaulted gateway, we find a sign-board, telling that the best place from
which to view the Taj is from the roof of the gateway. A flight of steps leads us to the designated
vantage-point, when the tropic garden, the fountains, the twin mosques in the far corners,
the river, the minarets, and, above all, the Taj itself lay spread out before us for our inspection.
The scene might well conjure up a vision of Paradise itself. The glorious Taj: "So light it
seems, so airy, and so like a fabric of mist and moonbeams, with its great dome soaring up,
a silvery bubble," that it is difficult, even at a few hundred yards' distance, to believe
it a creation of human hands. While gazing on the Taj, men let their cigars go out, and ladies
drop their fans without noticing it.

Descending the steps again, we pass inside, and again pause to survey it from the end of the
avenue. An element of the ridiculous here appears in the person and the appeals of an old Hindoo
fruit-vender. This hopeful agent of Pomona squats beside a little tray, and, as we stand and
feast our eyes on the sublimest object in the world of architecture, he persistently calls
our attention to a dozen or two half-decayed mangoes and custard-apples that comprise his stock
in trade.

We pass down the cypress aisle, and invade the plinth. Hundreds of natives, both male and female,
are wandering about it. The dazzling whiteness of the promenade is in striking contrast to
the color of their own bodies. As the groups of women walk about, their toe-rings and ankle-ornaments
jingle against the marble, and their particolored raiment and barbarous gewgaws look curiously
out of place here. The place seems more appropriate to vestal virgins, robed in white, than
to dusky Hindoo females, arrayed in all the colors of the rainbow. Many of these people are
pilgrims who have come hundreds of miles to see the Taj, and to pay tribute to the memory of
Shah Jehan, and his faithful wife the Princess Arjumund, whose mausoleum is the Taj. Two young
men we see, leading an aged female, probably their mother, down the steps to the vault, where,
side by side, the remains of this royal pair repose. The old lady is going down there to deposit
a rose or two upon Arjumund's tomb, a tender tribute paid to-day, by thousands, to her memory.

We climb the spiral stairs of one of the miuars, and sit out on the little pavilion at the
top, watching the big ugly crocodiles float lazily on the surface of the Jumna at our feet.
Before departing, we enter the Taj and examine the wonderful mosaics on the cenotaphs and the
encircling screen-work. This inlaid flower-work is quite in keeping with the general magnificence
of the mausoleum, many of the flowers containing not less than twenty-five different stones,
assorted shades of agate, carnelian, jasper, blood-stone, lapis lazuli, and turquoise. Ere
leaving we put to test the celebrated echo; that beautiful echoing, that--"floats and soars
overhead in a long, delicious undulation, fading away so slowly that you hear it after it is
silent, as you see, or seem to see, a lark you have been watching, after it is swallowed up
in the blue vault of heaven."

We leave this garden of enchantment by way of one of the mosques. An Indian boy is licking
up honey from the floor of the holy edifice with his tongue. We look up and perceive that enough
rich honey-comb to fill a bushel measure is suspended on one of the beams, and so richly laden
is it that the honey steadily drips down. The sanctity of the place, I suppose, prevents the
people molesting the swarm of wild bees that have selected it for their storehouse, or from
relieving them of their honey.

The Taj is said to have cost about two million pounds, even though most of the labor was performed
without pay, other than rations of grain to keep the workmen from starving. Twenty thousand
men were employed upon it for twenty-two years, and for its inlaid work "gems and precious
stones came in camel-loads from various countries."

The next morning I bid farewell to Agra, more than satisfied with my visit to the Taj. It stands
unique and distinct from anything else one sees the whole world round. Nothing one could say
about it can give the satisfaction derived from a visit, and no word-painting can do it justice.

CHAPTER XVI.

FROM AGRA TO SINGAPORE.

A couple of miles from the cantonment, and the broad Jumna is crossed on a pontoon bridge,
the buoys of which are tubular iron floats instead of boats. Crocodiles are observed floating,
motionless as logs, their heads turned up-stream and their snouts protruding from the water.
The road is undulating for a few miles and then perfectly level, as, indeed, it has been most
of the way from Lahore.

Pilgrims carrying little red flags, and sometimes bits of red paper tied to sticks, are encountered
by the hundred; mayhap they have come from distant points to gaze upon the beauties of the
Taj Mahal, the fame of which resounds to the farthermost corners of India. They can now see
it across the Jumna, resting on the opposite bank, looking more like a specimen of the architecture
of the skies than anything produced by mere earthly agency.

A partly dilapidated Mohammedan mosque in the middle of a forty-acre walled reservoir, overgrown
with water-lilies, forms a charming subject for the attention of my camera. The mosque is approached
from an adjacent village by a viaduct of twenty arches; a propos of its peculiar surroundings,
one might easily fancy the muezzin's call to prayer taking the appropriate form of, "Come where
the water-lilies bloom," instead of the orthodox, "Allah-il-allah."

Villages are now rows of shops lining the road on either side, sometimes as much as half a
mile in length. The entrance is usually marked by a shrine containing a hideous idol, painted
red and finished off with cheap-looking patches of gold or silver tinsel. In the larger towns,
evidences of English philanthropy loom conspicuously above the hut-like shops and inferior
houses of the natives in the form of large and substantial brick buildings, prominently labelled
"Ferozabad Hospital" or "Government Free Dispensary." A discouraging head-wind blows steadily
all day, and it is near sunset when the thirty-seven miles to Sbikarabad is covered. A mile
west of the town, I am told, is the Rohilcund Railway, the dak bungalow, and the bungalow of
an English Sahib. Quite suitable for a one-mile race-track as regards surface is this little
side-stretch, and a spin along its smooth length is rewarded by a most comfortable night at
the bungalow of Mr. S, an engineer of the Ganges Canal, a magnificent irrigating enterprise,
on the banks of which his bungalow stands. Several school-boys from Allahabad are here spending
their vacation, shooting peafowls and fishing. Wild boars abound in the tall tiger-grass of
the Shikobabad district and the silence of the gloaming is broken by the shouting of natives
driving them out of their cane-patches, where, if not looked after pretty sharply, they do
considerable damage in the night.

A curious illustration of native vanity and love of fame is pointed out here in the case of
a wealthy gentleman who has spent some thousands of rupees in making and maintaining a beautiful
flower-garden in the midst of a worthless piece of sandy land, close by the railway station.
Close by is an abundance of excellent ground, where his garden might have been easily and inexpensively
maintained. Asked the reason for this strange preference and seemingly foolish choice, he replied:
"When people see this beautiful garden in the midst of the barren sand, they will ask, 'Whose
garden is this?' and thus will my name become known among men. If, on the other hand, it were
planted on good soil, nobody would see anything extraordinary in it, and nobody would trouble
themselves to ask to whom it belongs."

Youthful Davids, perched on frail platforms that rise above the sugar-cane, indigo, or cotton
crops, shout and wield slings with dexterous aim and vigor, to keep away vagrant crows, parrots,
and wild pigs, all along the line of my next day's ride to Mainpuri. In many fields these young
slingers and their platforms are but a couple of hundred yards apart, the range of their weapons
covering the entire crop-area around. Sometimes I endeavor to secure one of these excellent
subjects for my camera, but the youngsters invariably clamber down from their perch at seeing
me dismount, and become invisible among the thick cane.

To the music of loud, rolling thunder, I speed swiftly over the last few miles, and dash beneath
the porch of the post-office just in the nick of time to escape a tremendous downpour of rain.
How it pours, sometimes, in India, converting the roads into streams and the surrounding country
into a shallow lake in the space of a few minutes. Hundreds of youths, naked save for the redeeming
breech-cloth, disport themselves in the great warm shower-bath, chasing one another sportively
about and enjoying the downpour immensely.

The rain ceases, and, with water flinging from my wheel, I seek the civil lines and the dak
bungalow three miles farther down the road. Very good meals are dished up by the chowkee-dar
at this bungalow, who seems an intelligent and enterprising fellow; but the lean and slippered
punkah-wallah is a far less satisfactory part of the accommodation. Twice during the night
the punkah ceases to wave and the demon of prickly heat instantly wakes me up; and both times
do I have to turn out and arouse him from the infolding arms of Morpheus. On the second occasion
the old fellow actually growls at being disturbed. He is wide-awake and obsequious enough,
however, at backsheesh-time in the morning.

The clock at the little English station-church chimes the hour of six as I resume my journey
next morning along a glorious avenue of overarching shade-trees to Bhogan, where my road, which
from Delhi has been a branch road, again merges into the Grand Trunk. Groves of tall toddy-palms
are a distinguishing feature of Bhogan, and a very pretty little Hindoo temple marks the southern
extremity of the town. A striking red and gilt shrine in a secluded grove of peepuls arrests
my attention a few miles out of town, and, repairing thither, my rude intrusion fills with
silent surprise a company of gentle Brahman youths and maidens paying their matutinal respects
to the representation of Kamadeva, the Hindoo cupid and god of love. They seem overwhelmed
with embarrassment at the appearance of a Sahib, but they say nothing. I explain that my object
is merely a "tomasha" of the exquisitely carved shrine, and a young Brahman, with his smooth,
handsome face fantastically streaked with yellow, follows silently behind as I walk around
the building. His object is evidently to satisfy himself that nothing is touched by my unhallowed
Christian hands.

Seven miles from Bhogan is the camping ground of Bheyo, where in December, 1869, an English
soldier was assassinated in the night while standing sentry beneath a tree. His grave, beneath
the gnarled mango where he fell, is marked by two wooden crosses, and the tree-trunk is all
covered with memorial plates nailed there, from time to time, by the various troops who have
camped here on their winter marches.

Twenty-eight miles are duly reeled off when, just outside a village, I seek the shade of a
magnificent banyan. The kindly villagers, unaccustomed to seeing a Sahib without someone attending
to his comfort, bring me a charpoy to recline on, and they inquire anxiously, "roti? pahni?
doctor." (am I hungry, thirsty, or ill?). Nor are these people actuated by mercenary thoughts,
for not a pice will they accept on my departure. "Nay, Sahib, nay," they reply, eagerly, smiling
and shaking their heads, "pice, nay." The narrow-gauge Rohilcuud Railway now follows along
the Grand Trunk road, being built on one edge of the broad road-bed. Miran Serai, a station
on this road, is my destination for the day; there, however, no friendly dak bungalow awaits
my coming and no hostelry of any kind is to be found.

The native station-master advises me to go to the superintendent of police across the way;
the police-officer, in turn, suggests applying to the station-master. The police-thana here
is a large establishment, and a number of petty prisoners are occupying railed-off enclosures
beneath the arched entrance. They accost me through the bars of their temporary, cage-like
prison with smiles, and "Sahib" spoken in coaxing tones, as though moved by the childish hope
that I might perchance take pity on them and order the police to set them at liberty.

A small and pardonable display of "bounce" at the railway station finally secures me the quarters
reserved for the accommodation of English officers of the road, and a Mohammedan employe about
the station procures me a supply of curried rice and meat. The station-master himself is a
high-caste Hindoo and can speak English; he politely explains the difficulty of his position,
as an extra-holy person, in being unable to personally attend to the wants of a Sahib. Upon
discovering that I have taken up my quarters in the station, the police-superintendent comes
over and begs permission to send over my supper, as he is evidently anxious to cultivate my
good opinion, or, at all events, to make sure of giving no offence in failing to accommodate
me with sleeping quarters at the thana. He supplements the efforts of the Mohammedan employe,
by sending over a dish of sweetened chuppaties.

On the street leading out of Miran Serai is a very handsome and elaborately ornamented temple.
Passing by early in the morning, I pay it a brief, unceremonious visit of inspection, kneeling
on the steps and thrusting my helmeted head in to look about, not caring to go to the trouble
of removing my shoes. Inside is an ancient Brahman, engaged in sweeping out the floral offerings
of the previous day; he favors me with the first indignant glance I have yet received in India.
When I have satisfied my curiosity and withdrawn from the door-way, he comes out himself and
shuts the beautifully chased brazen door with quite an angry slam. The day previous was the
anniversary of Krishna's birth, and the blood of sacrificial goats and bullocks is smeared
profusely about the altar. It is, probably, the enormity of an unhallowed unbeliever in one
god, thrusting his infidel head inside the temple at this unseemly hour of the morning, while
the blood of the mighty Krishna's sacrificial victims is scarcely dry on the walls, that arouses
the righteous wrath of the old heathen priest--as well, indeed, it might.

Passing through a village abounding in toddy-palms, I avail myself of an opportunity to investigate
the merits of a beverage that I have been somewhat curious about since reaching India, having
heard it spoken of so often. The famous "palm-wine" is merely the sap of the toddy-palm, collected
much as is the sap from the maple-sugar groves of America, although the palm-juice is generally,
if not always, obtained from the upper part of the trunk. When fresh, its taste resembles sweetened
water; in a day or two fermentation sets in, and it changes to a beverage that, except for
slightly alcoholic properties, might readily be mistaken for vinegar and water.

Every little village or hamlet one passes through, south of Agra, seems laudably determined
to own a god of some sort; those whose finances fail to justify them in sporting a nice, red-painted
god with gilt trimmings, sometimes console themselves with a humble little two-dollar soapstone
deity that looks as if he has been rudely chipped into shape by some unskilful prentice hand.
God-making is a highly respectable and lucrative profession in India, but only those able to
afford it can expect the luxury of a nice painted and varnished deity right to their hand every
day. People cannot expect a first-class deity for a couple of rupees; although the best of
everything is generally understood to be the cheapest in the end, it takes money to buy marble,
red paint, and gold-leaf. A bowl of pulse porridge, sweet and gluey, is prepared and served
up in a big banyan-leaf at noon by a villager. In the same village is one of those very old
and shrivelled men peculiar to India. From appearances, he must be nearly a hundred years old;
his skin resembles the epidermis of a mummy, and hangs in wrinkles about his attenuated frame.
He spends most of his time smoking goodakoo from a neat little cocoa-nut hookah.

The evening hour brings me into Cawnpore, down a fine broad street divided in the centre by
a canal, with flights of stone steps for banks and a double row of trees--a street far broader
and finer than the Chandni Chouk--and into an hotel kept by a Parsee gentleman named Byramjee.
Life at this hostelry is made of more than passing interest by the familiar manner in which
frogs, lizards, and birds invade the privacy of one's apartments. Not one of these is harmful,
but one naturally grows curious about whether a cobra or some other less desirable member of
the reptile world is not likely at any time to join their interesting company. The lizards
scale the walls and ceiling in search of flies, frogs hop sociably about the floor, and a sparrow
now and then twitters in and out.

A two weeks' drought has filled the farmers of the Cawnpore district with grave apprehensions
concerning their crops; but enough rain falls to-night to gladden all their hearts, and also
to leak badly through the roof of my bedroom.

My punkah-wallah here is a regular automaton--he has acquired the valuable accomplishment of
pulling the punkah-string back and forth in his sleep; he keeps it up some time after I have
quitted the room in the morning, until a comrade comes round and wakes him up.

For three days the rains continue almost without interruption, raining as much as seven inches
in one night. Slight breaks occur in the downpour, during which it is possible to get about
and take a look at the Memorial Gardens and the native town. The Memorial Gardens and the well
enclosed therein commemorate one of the most pathetic incidents of the mutiny--the brutal massacre
by Nana Sahib of about two hundred English women and children. This arch-fiend held supreme
sway over Cawnpore from June 6, 1857, till July 15th, and in that brief period committed some
of the most atrocious deeds of treachery and deviltry that have ever been, recorded. Backed
by a horde of blood-thirsty mutineers, he committed deeds the memory of which causes tears
of pity for his victims to come unbidden into the eyes of the English tourist thirty years
after. Delicate ladies, who from infancy had been the recipients of tender care and consideration,
were herded together in stifling rooms with the thermometer at 120 deg. in the shade, marched
through the broiling sun for miles, subjected to heart-rending privations, and at length finally
butchered, together with their helpless children. After the treacherous massacre of the few
surviving Englishmen at the Suttee Chowra Ghaut, the remaining women and children were reserved
for further cruelties, and the final act of Nana's fiendish vengeance. From the graphic account
of this murderous period of Cawnpore's history contained in the "Tourists' Guide to Cawnpore"
is quoted the following brief account of Nana's consummate deed of devilment.

But the Nana's reign of terror was now drawing to a close, though not to terminate without
a stroke destined to make the civilized world shudder from end to end. He was now to put the
finishing touch to his work of mischief. The councils of the wicked were being troubled. Danger
was on its way. Stories were brought in by scouting Sepoys of terrible bronzed men coming up
the Grand Trunk Road, before whose advance the rebel hosts were fleeing like chaff and dust
before the fan of the threshing-floor, Futtehpore had fallen, and disaster had overtaken the
rebel forces at Aoung. Reinforcements were despatched by Nana in rapid succession, but all
was of no avail--on came Havelock and his handful of heroes, carrying everything before them
in their determination to rescue the hapless women and children imprisoned at Cawnpore. About
noon on July 15th a few troopers came in from the south and informed Nana that his last reinforcement
had met the same fate as the others, and reported that the English were coming up the road
like mad horses, caring for neither cannon nor musketry; nor did these appear to have any effect
on them. The guilty Nana, with the blood of the recent treacherous massacre on his hands, grew
desperate at the hopelessness of the situation, and called a council of war. What plans could
they devise to keep out the English? what steps could they adopt to stay their advance. The
conclusion arrived at in that council of human tigers could have found expression nowhere save
in the brains of Asiatics, illogical, and diabolically cruel. "We will destroy the maims and
baba logues," they said, "and inform the English force of it; they will then be disheartened,
and go back, for they are only a handful in number!"

How the unfortunate innocents were butchered in cold blood in the beebeegurch where they were
confined, by Sepoys who gloried in trying their skill at severing the ladies' heads from their
bodies at one cut, in splitting little children in twain, and in smearing themselves with the
blood of their helpless victims, is too harrowing a tale to dwell upon here. On the following
morning "the mangled bodies of both dead and dying" were cast into the well over which now
hovers the marble representation of the Pitying Angel. When the victorious relieving force
scattered Nana's remaining forces and entered the city, two days later, instead of the living
forms of those they had made such heroic efforts to save, they looked down the well and saw
their ghastly remains.

In this lovely garden, where all is now so calm and peaceful, scarcely does it seem possible
that beneath the marble figure of this Pitying Angel repose the dust of two hundred of England's
gentle martyrs, whose murdered and mutilated forms, but thirty years ago, choked up the well
into which they were tossed. While I stand and read the sorrowful inscription it rains a gentle,
soft, unpattering shower. Are these gentle droppings the tender tribute of angels' tears. I
wonder, and does it always rain so soft and noiselessly here as it does to-day?

No natives are permitted in this garden without special permission; and an English soldier
keeps sentinel at the entrance-gate instead of the Sepoy usually found on such duty. The memory
of this tragedy seems to hang over Cawnpore like a cloud even to this day, and to cause a feeling
of bitterness in the minds of Englishmen, who everywhere else regard the natives about them
with no other feelings than of the kindliest possible nature. Other monuments of the mutiny
exist, notably the Memorial Church, a splendid Lombard-Gothic structure erected in memoriam
of those who fell in the mutiny here. The church is full of tablets commemorating the death
of distinguished people, and the stained-glass windows are covered with the names of the victims
of Nana Sahib's treachery, and of those who fell in action.

Cawnpore is celebrated for the number and extensiveness of its manufactures, and might almost
be called the Manchester of India; woollen, cotton, and jute mills abound, leather factories,
and various kindred industries, giving employment to millions of capital and thousands of hands.

A stroll through the native quarter of any Indian city is interesting, and Cawnpore is no exception.
One sees buildings and courts the decorations and general appearance of which leave the beholder
in doubt as to whether they are theatre or temple. Music and tom-toming would seem rather to
suggest the former, but upon entering one sees fakirs and Hindoo devotees, streaked with clay,
fanciful paintings and hideous idols, and all the cheap pomp and pageantry of idolatrous worship.
Strolling into one of these places, an attendant, noting my curious gazing, presents himself
and points to a sign-board containing characters as meaningless to me as Aztec hieroglyphics.

In one narrow street a crowd of young men are struggling violently for position about a door,
where an old man is flinging handfuls of yellow powder among the crowd. The struggling men
are aspirants for the honor of having a portion of the powder alight on their persons. I inquire
of a native by-stander what it all means; the explanation is politely given, but being in the
vernacular of the country, it is wasted on the unprofitable soil of my own lingual ignorance.

Impatient to be getting along, I misinterpret a gleam of illusory sunshine at noon on the third
day of the rain-storm and pull out, taking a cursory glance at the Memorial Church as I go.
A drenching shower overtakes me in the native military lines, compelling me to seek shelter
for an hour beneath the portico of their barracks. The road is perfectly level and smooth,
and well rounded, so that the water drains off and leaves it better wheeling than ever; and
with alternate showers and sunshine I have no difficulty in covering thirty-four miles before
sunset. This brings me to a caravanserai, consisting of a quadrangular enclosure with long
rows of cell-like rooms. The whole structure is much inferior to a Persian caravanserai, but
there is probably no need of the big brick structures of Shah Abbas in a winterless country
like India.

Interesting subjects are not wanting for my camera through the day; but the greatest difficulty
is experienced about changing the negatives at night. A small lantern with a very feeble light,
made still more feeble by interposing red paper, suffices for my own purpose; but the too attentive
chowkee-dar, observing that my room is in darkness, and fancying that my light has gone out
accidentally, comes flaring in with a torch, threatening the sensitive negatives with destruction.

The morning opens with a fine drizzle or extra-heavy mist that is penetrating and miserable,
soaking freely into one's clothes, and threatening every minute to change into a regular rain.
It is fourteen miles to Futtehpore, and thence two miles off the straight road to the railway-station,
where I understand refreshments are to be obtained. The reward of my four-mile detour is a
cup of sloppy tea and a few weevil-burrowed biscuits, as the best the refreshment-room can
produce on short notice. The dense mist moves across the country in big banks, between which
are patches of comparatively decent atmosphere. The country is perfectly flat, devoted chiefly
to the cultivation of rice, and the depressions alongside the road are, of course, filled with
water.

Timid youngsters, fleeing from the road at my approach, in their scrambling haste sometimes
tumble "head-over-heels" in the water; but, beyond a little extra terror lest the dreadful
object they see coming bowling along should overtake them, it doesn't matter--they haven't
any clothes to spoil or soil. Neither rain nor heat nor dense, reeking, foggy atmosphere seems
to diminish the swarms of people on the road, nor the groups bathing or washing clothes beneath
the trees. Some of these latter make a very interesting picture. The reader has doubtless visited
the Zoo and observed one monkey gravely absorbed in a "phrenological examination" of another's
head. With equal gravity and indifference to the world at large, dusky humans are performing
a similar office for one another beneath the roadside shade-trees.

Roasted ears of maize and a small muskmelon form my noontide repast, and during its consumption
quite a comedy is enacted down the street between a fat, paunchy vender of goodakoo and the
shiny-skinned proprietor of a dhal-shop. The scene opens with a wordy controversy about something;
scene two shows the fat goodakoo merchant advanced midway between his own and his adversary's
premises, capering about, gesticulating, and uttering dire threats; scene three finds him retreating
and the valorous man of dhal held in check by his wife to prevent him following after with
hostile intent. The men seem boiling over with rage and ready to chew each other up; but, judging
from the supreme indifference of everybody else about, nobody expects anything serious, to
happen. This is mentionable as being the first quarrel I have seen in India; as a general thing
the people are gentleness personified.

Several tattooed Hindoo devotees are observed this afternoon paying solemn devotions to bel-trees
streaked with red paint, near the road. Many of the trees also shelter rude earthenware animals,
and hemispherical vessels, which are also objects of worship, as representing the linga. The
bel-tree is sacred to Siva the Destroyer, and the third person in the Hindoo Triad, whom Brahma
himself is said to have worshipped, although he is regarded as the Creator. In the absence
of Siva himself, the worship of the bel-tree is supposed to be as efficacious as worshipping
the idol direct.

Soon I overtake an individual doing penance for his sins by crawling on his stomach all the
way to Benares, the Mecca of the Hindoo religion. In addition to crawling, he is dragging a
truck containing his personal effects by a rope tied about his waist. Every fifty yards or
so he stands up and stretches himself; then he lies prostrate again and worms his wearisome
way along the road like a snake. Benares is still about a hundred miles distant, and not unlikely
this determined devotee has already been crawling in this manner for weeks. This painful sort
of penance was formerly indulged in by Hindoo fanatics very largely; but the English Government
has now all but abolished the practice by mild methods of discouragement. The priests of the
different idols in Benares annually send out thousands of missionaries to travel throughout
the length and breadth of India to persuade people to make pilgrimages to that city. Each missionary
proclaims the great benefits to be derived by going to worship the particular idol he represents;
in this manner are the priests enriched by the offerings presented. Not long since one of these
zealous pilgrim-hunters persuaded a wealthy rajah into journeying five hundred miles in the
same manner as the poor wretch passed on the road to-day. The infatuated rajah completed the
task, after months of torture, on all-fours, accompanied the whole distance by a crowd of servants
and priests, all living on his bounty.

Many people now wear wooden sandals held on the feet by a spool-like attachment, gripped between
the big and second toes. Having no straps, the solid sole of the sandal flaps up and mildly
bastinadoes the wearer every step that is taken.

Another night in a caravanserai, where rival proprietors of rows of little chowkees contend
for the privilege of supplying me char-poy, dood, and chowel, and where thousands of cawing
rooks blacken the trees and alight in the quadrangular serai in noisy crowds, and I enter upon
the home-stretch to Allahabad.

In proof that the cycle is making its way in India it may be mentioned that at both Cawnpore
and Allahabad the native postmen are mounted on strong, heavy bicycles, made and supplied from
the post-office workshops at Allighur. They are rude machines, only a slight improvement upon
the honored boneshaker; but their introduction is suggestive of what may be looked for in the
future. As evidence, also, of the oft-repeated saying that "the world is small," I here have
the good fortune to meet Mr. Wingrave, a wheelman whom I met at the Barnes Common tricycle
parade when passing through London.

There is even a small cycle club in quasi existence at Allahabad; but it is afflicted with
chronic lassitude, as a result of the enervating climate of the Indian plains. Young men who
bring with them from England all the Englishman's love of athletics soon become averse to exercise,
and prefer a quiet "peg" beneath the punkah to wheeling or cricket. During the brief respite
from the hades-like temperature afforded by December and January, they sometimes take club
runs down the Ganges and indulge in the pastime of shooting at alligators with small-bore rifles.

The walks in the beautiful public gardens and every other place about Allahabad are free to
wheelmen, and afford most excellent riding.

Messrs. Wingrave and Gawke, the two most enterprising wheelmen, turn out at 6 a.m. to escort
me four miles to the Ganges ferry. Some idea of the trying nature of the climate in August
may be gathered from the fact that one of my companions arrives at the river fairly exhausted,
and is compelled to seek the assistance of a native gharri to get back home. The exposure and
exercise I am taking daily is positively dangerous, I am everywhere told, but thus far I have
managed to keep free from actual sickness.

The sacred river is at its highest flood, and hereabout not less than a mile and half wide.
The ferry service is rude and inefficient, being under the management of natives, who reck
little of the flight of time or modern improvements. The superintendent will bestir himself,
however, in behalf of the Sahib who is riding the Ferenghi gharri around the world: instead
of putting me aboard the big slow ferry, he will man a smaller and swifter boat to ferry me
over. The "small boat" is accordingly produced, and turns out to be a rude flat-boat sort of
craft, capable of carrying fully twenty tons, and it is manned by eight oarsmen. Their oars
are stout bamboo poles with bits of broad board nailed or tied on the end.

Much of the Ganges' present width is mere overflow, shallow enough for the men to wade and
tow the boat. It is tugged a considerable distance up-stream, to take advantage of the swift
current in crossing the main channel. The oars are plied vigorously to a weird refrain of "deelah,
sahlah-deelah, sahlah!" the stroke oarsman shouting "deelah" and the others replying "sahlah"
in chorus. Two hours are consumed in crossing the river, but once across the road is perfection
itself, right from the river's brink.

Through the valley of the sacred river, the splendid kunkah road leads onward to Benares, the
great centre of Hindoo idolatry, a city that is more to the Hindoo than is Mecca to the Mohammedans
or Jerusalem to the early Christians. Shrines and idols multiply by the roadside, and tanks
innumerable afford bathing and purifying facilities for the far-travelled pilgrims who swarm
the road in thousands. As the heathen devotee approaches nearer and nearer to Benares he feels
more and more devotionally inclined, and these tanks of the semi-sacred water of the Ganges
Valley happily afford him opportunity to soften up the crust of his accumulated transgressions,
preparatory to washing them away entirely by a plunge off the Kamnagar ghaut at Benares. Many
of the people are trudging their way homeward again, happy in the possession of bottles of
sacred water obtained from the river at the holy city. Precious liquid this, that they are
carrying in earthenware bottles hundreds of weary miles to gladden the hearts of stay-at-home
friends and relations.

At every tank scores of people are bathing, washing their clothes, or scouring out the brass
drinking vessel almost everyone carries for pulling water up from the roadside wells. They
are far less particular about the quality of the water itself than about the cleanliness of
the vessel. Many wells for purely drinking purposes abound, and Brahmans serve out cool water
from little pahnee-chowkees through window-like openings. Wealthy Hindoos, desirous of performing
some meritorious act to perpetuate their memory when dead, frequently build a pahnee-chowkee
by the roadside and endow it with sufficient land or money to employ a Brahman to serve out
drinking-water to travellers.

Thirty miles from Allahabad, I pause at a wayside well to obtain a drink. It is high noon,
and the well is on unshaded ground. For a brief moment my broad-brimmed helmet is removed so
that a native can pour water into my hands while I hold them to my mouth. Momentary as is the
experience, it is followed by an ominous throbbing and ringing in the ears--the voice of the
sun's insinuating power. But a very short distance is covered when I am compelled to seek the
shelter of a little road-overseer's chowkee, the symptoms of fever making their appearance
with alarming severity.

The quinine that I provided myself with at Constantinople is brought into requisition for the
first time; it is found to be ruined from not being kept in an air-tight vessel. A burning
fever keeps me wide awake till 2 a.m., and in the absence of a punkah, prickly heat prevents
my slumbering afterward. This wakeful night by the roadside enlightens me to the interesting
fact that the road is teeming with people all night as well as all day, many preferring to
sleep in the shade during the day and travel at night.

It is fifty miles from my chowkee to Benares, and the dread of being overtaken with serious
illness away from medical assistance urges upon me the advisability of reaching there to-day,
if possible. The morning is ushered in with a stiff head-wind, and the fever leaves me feeling
anything but equal to pedalling against it when I mount my wheel at early daybreak. By sheer
strength of will I reel off mile after mile, stopping to rest frequently at villages and under
the trees.

A troop of big government elephants are having their hoofs trimmed at a village where a halt
is made to obtain a bite of bread and milk. The elephants enter unmistakable objections to
the process in the way of trumpeting, and act pretty much like youngsters objecting to soap
and water. But a word and a gentle tap from the mahout's stick and the monster brutes roll
over on their sides and submit to the inevitable with a shrill protesting trumpet.

Another diversion not less interesting than the elephants is a wrestling tournament at the
police-thana, where twenty stalwart policemen, stripped as naked as the proprieties of a country
where little clothing is worn anyhow will permit, are struggling for honor in the arena. Vigorous
tom-toming encourages the combatants to do their best, and they flop one another over merrily,
in the dampened clay, to the applause of a delighted crowd of lookers-on. The fifty miles are
happily overcome by four o'clock, and with the fever heaping additional fuel on the already
well-nigh unbearable heat, I arrive pretty thoroughly exhausted at Clarke's Hotel, in the European
quarter of Benares.

Of all the cities of the East, Benares is perhaps the most interesting at the present day to
the European tourist. Its fourteen hundred shivalas or idol temples, and two hundred and eighty
mosques, its wonderful bathing ghauts swarming with pilgrims washing away their sins, the burning
bodies, the sacred Ganges, the hideous idols at every corner of the streets, and its strange
idolatrous population, make up a scene that awakens one to a keen appreciation of its novelty.
One realizes fully that here the idolatry, the "bowing down before images" that in our Sunday-school
days used to seem so unutterably wicked and perverse, so monstrous, and so far, far away, is
a tangible fact. To keep up their outward appearance on a par with the holiness of their city,
men streak their faces and women mark the parting in their hair with red. Sacred bulls are
allowed to roam the streets at will, and the chief business of a large proportion of the population
seems to be the keeping of religious observances and paying devotion to the multitudinous idols
scattered about the city.

The presiding deity of Benares is the great Siva--"The Great God," "The Glorious," "The Three-Eyed,"
and lord of over one thousand similarly grandiloquent titles, and he is represented by the
Bishesharnath ka shivala, a temple whose dome shines resplendent with gold-leaf, and which
is known to Europeans as the Golden Temple. Siva is considered the king of all the Hindoo deities
in the Benares Pauch-kos, and is consequently honored above all other idols in the number of
devotees that pay homage to him daily. His income from offerings amounts to many thousands
of rupees annually: there is a reservoir for the reception of offerings about three feet square
by half that in depth. The Maharajah Ranjit Singh, Rajah of the Punjab, once filled this place
with gold mohurs; many wealthy Hindoos have from time to time filled it with rupees.

The old guide whom I have employed to show me about then conducts me into the "Cow Temple,"
a filthy court containing a number of pampered-looking Brahman bulls, and several youthful
bovines whose great privilege it is to roam about the court-yard and accept tid-bits from the
hands of devotees. In the same court-yard-like shivala are several red idols, and the numerous
comers and goers make the place as animated as a vegetable market at early morning. Priests,
too, are here in numbers; seated on a central elevation they make red marks on the faces of
the devotees, dipping in the mixture with their finger; in return they receive a small coin,
or a pinch of rice or grain is thrown into a vessel placed there for the purpose.

In many stalls are big piles of flower-petals which devotees purchase to present as offerings.
Men and women by the hundred are encountered in the narrow streets, passing briskly along with
baskets containing a supply of these petals, a dish of rice, and a bowl of water; one would
think, from their business-like manner, that they were going, or had been, marketing. They
are going the morning round of their favorite gods, or the gods whose particular services they
happen to stand in need of at the time; before these idols they pause for a moment, mutter
their supplications, and sprinkle them with water and flower-petals, passing from one deity
to another in a most business-like, matter-of-fact manner. Women unblessed with children throng
to the idols of Sidheswari and Sankatadevi, bestowing offerings and making supplication for
sons and daughters; pilgrims from afar are flocking to Sakhi-Banaik, whose office it is to
testify in the next world of their pilgrimage in this. No matter how far a pilgrim has come,
and how many offerings he has bestowed since his arrival, unless he repair to the shivala of
Sakhi Banaik and duly report his appearance, his pilgrimage will have been performed in vain.

Everywhere, in niches of the walls, under trees, on pedestals at frequent corners, are idols,
hideously ugly; red idols, idols with silver faces and stone bodies, some with mouths from
ear to ear, big idols, little idols, the worst omnium gatherum imaginable. Sati, nothing visible
but her curious silver face, beams over a black mother-hubbard sort of gown that conceals whatever
she may possess in the way of a body; Jagaddatri, the Mother of the World, with four arms,
seated on a lion; Brahma, with five eyes and four mouths, curiously made to supply quadruple
faces. Karn-adeva, the handsome little God of Love (the Hindoo Cupid), whom the cruel Siva
once slew with a beam from his third eye--all these and multitudinous others greet the curious
sight-seer whichever way he turns. Hanuman, too, is not forgotten, the great Monkey King who
aided Kama in his expedition to Ceylon; outside the city proper is the monkey temple, where
thousands of the sacred anthropoids do congregate and consider themselves at home. Then there
is the fakirs' temple, the most beautifully carved shivala in Benares; here priests distribute
handfuls of soaked grain to all mendicants who present themselves. The grain is supplied by
wealthy Hindoos, and both priests and patrons consider it a great sin to allow a religious
mendicant to go away from the temple empty-handed.

Conspicuous above all other buildings in the city is the mosque of Aurungzebe, with its two
shapely minarets towering high above everything else. The view from the summit of the minarets
is comprehensive and magnificently lovely; the wonderful beauty of the trees and shivalas,
the green foliage, and the gilt and red temples, so beautifully carved and gracefully tapering;
the broad, flowing Ganges, the busy people, the moving boats, the rajahs' palaces along the
water-front, make up a truly beautiful panorama of the Sacred City of the Hindoos. From here
we take a native boat and traverse the water-front to see the celebrated bathing ghauts and
the strange, animated scene of pilgrims bathing, bodies burning, and swarms of people ascending
and descending the broad flights of steps. How intensely eager do these dusky believers in
the efficacy of "Mother Ganga" as a purifier of sin dip themselves beneath the yellow water,
rinse out their mouths, scrape their tongues, nib, duck, splash, and disport; they fairly revel
in the sacred water; happy, thrice happy they look, as well indeed they might, for now are
they certain of future happiness. What the "fountain filled with blood" is to the Christian,
so is the precious water of dear Ganga to the sinful Hindoo: all sins, past, present, and future,
are washed away.

Next to washing in the sacred stream during life, the Hindoo's ambition is to yield up the
ghost on its bank, and then to be burned on the Burning Ghaut and have his ashes cast adrift
on the waters. On the Manikarnika ghaut the Hindoos burn their dead. To the unbelieving Ferenghi
tourist there seems to be a "nigger in the fence" about all these heathen ceremonies, and in
the burning of the dead the wily priesthood has managed to obtain a valuable monopoly on firewood,
by which they have accumulated immense wealth. No Hindoo, no matter how pious he has been through
life, how many offerings he has made to the gods, or how thoroughly he has scoured his yellow
hide in the Ganges, can ever hope to reach Baikunt (heaven) unless the wood employed at his
funeral pyre come from a domra. Domras are the lowest and most despised caste in India, a caste
which no Hindoo would, under any consideration, allow himself to touch during life, or administer
food to him even if starving to death; but after his holier brethren have yielded up the ghost,
then the despised domra has his innings. Then it is that the relatives of the deceased have
to humble themselves before the domra to obtain firing to burn the body. Realizing that they
now have the pull, the wily domras sometimes bleed their mournful patrons unmercifully. As
many as a thousand rupees have been paid for a fire by wealthy rajahs. The domra who holds
the monopoly at the Manikarnika ghaut is one of the richest men in Benares.

Two or three bodies swathed in white are observed waiting their turn to be burned, others are
already burning, and in another spot is the corpse of some wealthier person wrapped in silver
tinsel. Not the least interesting of the sights is that of men and boys here and there engaged
in dipping up mud from the bottom and washing it in pans similar to the gold-pans of placer-miners;
they make their livelihood by finding occasional coins and ornaments, accidentally lost by
bathers. A very unique and beautifully carved edifice is the Nepaulese temple; but the carvings
are unfit for popular inspection.

The whole river-front above the ghauts is occupied by temples and the palaces of rajahs, who
spend a portion of their time here preparing themselves for happiness hereafter, by drinking
Ganges water and propitiating the gods. On festival occasions, and particularly during an eclipse,
as many as one hundred thousand people bathe in the Ganges at once; formerly many were drowned
in the great crush to obtain the peculiar blessings of bathing during an eclipse, but now a
large force of police is employed to regulate the movements of the people on such occasions.
Formerly, also, fights were very frequent between the Mohammedans and Hindoos, owing to the
clashing of their religious beliefs, but under the tolerant and conciliatory system of the
British Government they now get along very well together.

A rest of two days and a few doses of quinine subdue the fever and put me in condition to resume
my journey. Twelve miles from Benares, on the East Indian Kail way, is Mogul Serai, to which
I deem it advisable to wheel in the evening, by way of getting started without over-exertion
at first. Two English railroad engineers are stationed at Mogul Serai, and each of them is
a wheelman. They, of course, are delighted to offer me the hospitality of their quarters for
the night, and, moreover, put forth various inducements for a longer stay; but being anxious
to reach Calcutta, I decide to pull out again next morning.

My entertainers accompany me for a few miles out. Mogul Serai is four hundred and twelve miles
from Calcutta, and at the four hundred and fourth milestone my companions bid me hearty bon
voyage and return. Splendid as are the roads round about Mogul Serai, this eight-mile stone
is farther down the road than they have ever ridden before.

Twenty-five miles farther, and a sub-inspector of police begs my acceptance of curried chicken
and rice. He is a five-named Mohammedan, and tells me a long story about his grandfather having
been a reminder of a hundred and fifty villages, and an officer in the East India Company's
army. On the pinions of his grandparents' virtues, his Oriental soul soars ambitiously after
present promotion; on the strength of sundry eulogistic remarks contained in certificates already
in his possession, he wants one from myself recommending him to the powers that be for their
favorable consideration. He is the worst "certificate fiend" that I have met.

Near Sassaram I meet a most picturesque subject for my camera, a Kajput hill-man in all the
glory of shield, spear, and gayly feathered helmet. He is leading a pack-pony laden with his
travelling kit, and mechanically obeys when I motion for him to halt. He remains stationary,
and regards my movements with much curiosity while I arrange the camera. When the tube is drawn
out, however, and pointed at him, and I commence peeping through to arrange the focus, he gets
uneasy, and when I am about ready to perpetuate the memory of his fantastic figure forever,
he moves away. Nor will any amount of beckoning obtain for me another "sitting," nor the production
and holding aloft of a rupee. Whether he fancied the camera in danger of going off, or dreaded
the "evil eye," can only be surmised.

The famous fleet-footed mail-carriers of Bengal are now frequently encountered on the road;
they are invariably going at a bounding trot of eight or ten miles an hour. The letter-bag
is attached to the end of a stick carried over the shoulder, which is also provided with rings
that jingle merrily in response to the motions of the runner. The day is not far distant when
all these men will be mounted on bicycles, judging from the beginning already made at Allahabad
and Cawnpore. The village women hereabouts wear massive brass ankle-ornaments, six inches broad,
and which are apparently pounds in weight.

A deluge of rain during the night at Dilli converts the road into streams, and covers the low,
flat land with a sheet of water. The ground is soaked full, like a wet sponge, and can absorb
no more; rivers are overflowing, every weed, every blade of grass, and every tree-leaf is jewelled
with glistening drops. The splendid kunkah is now gradually giving place to ordinary macadam,
which is far less desirable, the heavy, pelting rain washing away the clay and leaving the
surface rough.

Not less than four hours are consumed in crossing the River Sone at Dilli in a native punt,
so swiftly runs the current and so broad is the overflow. The frequent drenching rains, the
lowering clouds, and the persistent southern wind betoken the full vigor of the monsoons. One
can only dodge from shelter to shelter between violent showers, and pedal vigorously against
the stiff breeze. The prevailing weather is stormy, and inky clouds gather in massy banks at
all points of the compass, culminating in violent outbursts of thunder and lightning, wind
and rain. Occasionally, by some unaccountable freak of the elements, the monsoon veers completely
around, and blowing a gale from the north, hustles me along over the cobbly surface at great speed.

Just before reaching Shergotti, on the evening of the third day from Benares, a glimpse is
obtained of hills on the right. They are the first relief from the dead level of the landscape
all the way from Lahore; their appearance signifies that I am approaching the Bengal Hills.
From Mogul Serai my road has been through territory not yet invaded by the revolutionizing
influence of the railway, and consequently the dak bungalows are still kept up in form to provide
travellers with accommodation. Chowkeedar, punkah-wallah, and sweeper are in regular attendance,
and one can usually obtain curried rice, chicken, dhal, and chuppatties. An official regulation
of prices is posted conspicuously in the bungalow: For room and charpoy, Rs 1; dinner, Rs 1-8;
chota-hazari, Rs 1, and so on through the scale. The prices are moderate enough, even when
it is considered that a dinner consists of a crow-like chicken, curried rice, and unleavened
chuppatties. The chowkeedar is usually an old Sepoy pensioner, who obtains, in addition to
his pension, a percentage on the money charged for the rooms--a book is kept in which travellers
are required to enter their names and the amount paid. The sweepers and punkah-wallahs are
rewarded separately by the recipient of their attentions. Sometimes, if a Mohammedan, and not
prohibited by caste obligations from performing these menial services, the old pensioner brings
water for bathing and sweeps out one's own room himself, in which case he of course pockets
the backsheesh appertaining to these duties also.

A few miles south of Shergotti the bridge spanning a tributary of the Sone is broken down,
and no ferry is in operation. The stream, however, is fordable, and four stalwart Bengalis
carry me across on a charpoy, hoisted on their shoulders; they stem the torrent bravely, and
keep up their strength and courage by singing a refrain. From this point the road becomes undulating,
and of indifferent surface; the macadam is badly washed by the soaking monsoon rains, and the
low, level country is gradually merging into the jungle-covered hills of Bengal.

The character of the people has undergone a decided change since leaving Delhi and Agra, and
the Bengalis impress one decidedly unfavorably in comparison with the more manly and warlike
races of the Punjab. Abject servility marks the demeanor of many, and utter uselessness for
any purpose whatsoever, characterizes one's intuitive opinion of a large percentage of the
population of the villages. Except for the pressing nature of one's needs, the look of unutterable
perplexity that comes over the face of a Bengali villager, to-day, when I ask him to obtain
me something to eat, would be laughable in the extreme. "N-a-y, Sahib, n-a-y." he replies,
with a show of mental distraction as great as though ordered to fetch me the moon. An appeal
for rice, milk, dhal, chuppatties, at several stalls results in the same failure; everybody
seems utterly bewildered at the appearance of a Sahib among them searching for something to
eat. The village policeman is on duty in the land of dreams, a not unusual circumstance, by
the way; but a youth scuttles off and wakes him up, and notifies him of my arrival. Anxious
to atone for his shortcomings in slumbering at his post, he bestirs himself to obtain the wherewithal
to satisfy my hunger, his authoritative efforts culminating in the appearance of a big dish
of dhal.

The country becomes hillier, and the wild, jungle-covered hills and dark ravines alongside
the road are highly suggestive of royal Bengal tigers. The striped monsters infest these jungles
in plenty; during the afternoon I pass through a village where a depredatory man-eater has
been carrying off women and children within the last few days.

The chowkeedar at Burhee, my stopping-place for the night in the hill country, is a helpless
old duffer, who replies "nay-hee, Sahib, nay-hee," with a decidedly woe-begone utterance in
response to all queries about refreshments. A youth capable of understanding a little English
turns up shortly, and improves the situation by agreeing to undertake the preparation of supper.
Still more hopeful is the outlook when a Eurasian and a native school-master appear upon the
scene, the former acting as interpreter to the genial pedagogue, who is desirous of contributing
to my comfort by impressing upon my impromptu cook the importance of his duties. They become
deeply interested in my tour of the world, which the scholarly pedagogue has learned of through
the medium of the vernacular press. The Eurasian, not being a newspaper-reader, has not heard
anything of the journey. But he has casually heard of the River Thames, and his first wondering
question is as to "how I managed to cross the Thames!"

My saturated karki clothing has been duly wrung out and hung up inside the dak bungalow, the
only place where it will not get wetter instead of dryer, and my cook is searching the town
in quest of meat, when an English lady and gentleman drive up in a dog-cart and halt before
the bungalow. Unaware of the presence of English people in the place, I am taken completely
by surprise.

They are Mr. and Mrs. B, an internal revenue officer and his wife, who, having heard of my
arrival, have come to invite me to dinner. Of course I am delighted, and they are equally pleased
to entertain one about whose adventures they have recently been reading. Their ayah saw me
ride in, and went and told her mistress of seeing a "wonderful Sahib on wheels," and already
the report has spread that I have come down from Lahore in four days!

A very agreeable evening is spent at Mr. E 's house, talking about the incidents of my journey,
Mr. E 's tiger-hunting exploits in the neighborhood, and kindred topics. Mr. R devotes a good
deal of time in the winter season to hunting tigers in the jungle round about his station,
and numerous fine trophies of his prowess adorn the rooms of his house. He knows of the man-eater's
depredations in the village I passed to-day, and also of another one ahead which I shall go
through to-morrow; he declares his intention of bagging them both next season.

Mrs. R arrived from Merrie England but eighteen months ago, a romantic girl whose knowledge
of royal Bengal tigers was confined to the subdued habitues of sundry iron-barred cages in
the Zoo. She is one of those dear confiding souls that we sometimes find out whose confidence
in the omnipotent character of their husbands' ability is nothing if not charming and sublime.
Upon her arrival in the wilds of Bengal she was fascinated with the loveliness of the country,
and wanted her liege lord to take her into the depths of the jungle and show her a "real wild
tiger." She had seen tigers in cages, but wanted to see how a real wild one looked in his native
lair. One day they were out taking horseback exercise together, when, a short distance from
the road, the horrible roar of a tiger awoke the echoes of the jungle and reverberated through
the hills like rolling thunder. Now was the long-looked-for opportunity, and her husband playfully
invited her to ride with him toward the spot whence came the roars. Mrs. R, however, had suddenly
changed her mind.

Mrs. R was the first white lady the people of many of the outlying villages had ever seen on
horseback, or perhaps had ever seen at all, and the timidest of them would invariably bolt
into the jungle at her appearance. When her husband or any other Englishman went among them
alone, the native women would only turn away their faces, but from the lady herself they would
hastily run and hide. Here, also, I learn that the natives in this district are dying by the
hundred with a malignant type of fever; that the present season is an exceptionally sickly
one, all of which gives reason for congratulation at my own health being so good.

It is all but a sub-aqueous performance pedalling along the road next morning; the air is laden
with a penetrating drizzle, the watery clouds fairly hover on the tree-tops and roll in dark
masses among the hills, while the soaked and saturated earth reeks with steam. The road is
macadamized with white granite, and after one of those tremendous downpourings that occur every
hour or so the wheel-worn depressions on either side become narrow streams, divided by the
white central ridge. Down the long, straight slopes these twin rivulets course right merrily,
the whirling wheels of the bicycle flinging the water up higher than my head. The ravines are
roaring, muddy torrents, but they are all well bridged, and although the road is lumpy, an
unridable spot is very rarely encountered. For days I have not had a really dry thread of clothing,
from the impossibility of drying anything by hanging it out. Under these trying conditions,
a relapse of the fever is matter for daily and hourly apprehension.

The driving drizzle to-day is very uncomfortable, but less warm than usual; it is anything
but acceptable to the natives; thousands are seen along the road, shivering behind their sheltering
sun-shields, from which they dismally essay to extract a ray of comfort. These sun-shields
are umbrella-like affairs made of thin strips of bamboo and broad leaves; they are without
handles, and for protection against the sun or rain are balanced on the head like an inverted
sieve. When carried in the hand they may readily be mistaken for shields. In addition to this,
the men carry bamboo spears with iron points as a slipshod measure of defence against possible
attacks from wild animals. When viewed from a respectable distance these articles invest the
ultra-gentle Bengali with a suggestion of being on the war-path, a delusion that is really
absurd in connection with the meek Bengali ryot.

The houses of the villages are now heavily thatched, and mostly enclosed with high bamboo fencing,
prettily trailed with creepers; the bazaars are merely two rows of shed-like stalls between
which runs the road. In lieu of the frequent painted idol, these jungle villagers bestow their
devotional exercises upon rude and primitive representations of impossible men and animals
made of twisted straw. These are sometimes set up in the open air on big horseshoe-shaped frames,
and sometimes they are beneath a shed. In the privacy of their own dwellings the Bengali ryot
bows the knee and solemnly worships a bowl of rice or a cup of arrack. The bland and childlike
native of Hindostan falls down and worships almost everything that he recognizes as being essential
to his happiness and welfare, embracing a wide range of subjects, from Brahma, who created
all things, to the denkhi with which their women hull the rice. This denkhi is merely a log
of wood fixed on a pivot and with a hammer-like head-piece. The women manipulate it by standing
on the lever end and then stepping off, letting it fall of its own weight, the hammer striking
into a stone bowl of rice. The denkhi is said to have been blessed by Brahma's son Narada,
the god who is distinguished as having cursed his venerable and all-creating sire and changed
him from an object of worship and adoration to a luster after forbidden things.

The country continues hilly, with the dense jungle fringing the road; all along the way are
little covered platforms erected on easily climbed poles from twelve to twenty feet high. These
are apparently places of refuge where benighted wayfarers can seek protection from wild animals.
Occasionally are met the fleet-footed postmen, their rings jangling merrily as they bound briskly
along; perhaps the little platforms are built expressly for their benefit, as they are not
infrequently the victims of stealthy attack, the jingle of their rings attracting Mr. Tiger
instead of repelling him.

Mount Parisnath, four thousand five hundred and thirty feet high, the highest peak of the Bengal
hills, overlooks my dak bungalow at Doomree, and also a region of splendid tropical scenery,
dark wooded ridges, deep ravines, and rolling masses of dark-green vegetation.

During the night the weather actually grows chilly, a raw wind laden with moisture driving
me off the porch into the shelter of the bungalow. No portion of Parisnath is visible in the
morning but the base, nine-tenths of its proportions being above the line of the cloud-masses
that roll along just above the trees. Another day through the hilly country and, a hundred
and fifty miles from Calcutta, the flourishing coal-mining district of Asansol brings me again
to the East India Railway and semi-European society and accommodation. Instead of doughy chuppatties,
throat-blistering curry, and octogenarian chicken, I this morning breakfast off a welcome bottle
of Bass's ale, baker's bread, and American cheese.

My experience of hotels and hotel proprietors has certainly been somewhat wide and varied within
the last two years; but it remains for Rannegunj to produce something entirely novel in the
matter of tariff even to one of my experience. The cuisine and service of the hotel is excellent,
and well worth the charges; but the tariff is arranged so that it costs more to stay part of
a day than a whole one, and more to take two meals than to take three. If a person remains
a whole day, including room and three meals, it is Rs 4, and he can, of course, suit himself
about staying or going if he engages or pays in advance; but should he only take dinner, room,
and chota-hazari, his bill reads: Dinner, Rs 2; room, Rs 1, 8 annas; chota-hazari, rupees 1;
total, Rs 4, 8 annas, or 8 annas more than if he had remained and taken another square meal.
The subtle-minded proprietor of this establishment should undoubtedly take out a patent on
this very unique arrangement and issue licences throughout all Bonifacedom; there would be
more "millions in it" than in anything Colonel Sellers ever dreamed of.

And now, beyond Rannegunj, comes again the glorious kunkah road, after nearly three hundred
miles of variable surface. Level, smooth, and broad it continues the whole sixty-five miles
to Burd-wan. Notwithstanding an adverse wind, this is covered by three o'clock. The road leads
through the marvellously fertile valley of the Dammoodah, an interesting region where groves
of cocoa-nut palms, bamboo thickets, and thatched villages give the scenery a more decidedly
tropical character than that north of the Bengal hills. Rice is still the prevailing crop,
and the overflow of the Dammoodah is everywhere. Men and women are busily engaged among the
pools, fishing for land-crabs, mussels, and other freshwater shell-fish, with triangular nets.

As my southward course brings me next day into the valley of the Hooghli River, the road partakes
almost of the character of a tunnel burrowing through a mass of dense tropical vegetation.
Cocoa-nut and toddy-palms mingle their feathery foliage with the dark-green of the mango, the
wild pomolo, giant bamboo, and other vegetable exuberances characteristic of a hot and humid
climate, and giant creepers swing from tree to tree and wind among the mass in inextricable
confusion.

In this magnificent conservatory of nature big, black-faced monkeys, with tails four feet long,
romp and revel through the trees, nimbly climb the creepers, and thoroughly enjoy the life
amid the sylvan scenes about them. It is a curious sight to see these big anthropoids, almost
as large as human beings, swing themselves deftly up among the festooned creepers at my approach--to
see their queer, impish black faces peering cautiously out of their hiding-place, and to hear
their peculiar squeak of surprise and apprehension as they note the strange character of my
conveyance. Sometimes a gang of them will lope awkwardly along ahead of the bicycle, looking
every inch like veritable imps of darkness pursuing their silent course through the chastened
twilight of green-grown, subterranean passageways, their ridiculously long tails raised aloft,
and their faces most of the time looking over their shoulders.

Youthful lotus-eaters, sauntering lazily about in the vicinity of some toddy-gatherer's hamlet,
hidden behind the road's impenetrable environment of green, regard with supreme indifference
the evil-looking apes, bigger far than themselves, romping past; but at seeing me they scurry
off the road and disappear as suddenly as the burrow-like openings in the green banks will admit.

Women are sometimes met carrying baskets of plantains or mangoes to the village bazaars; sometimes
I endeavor to purchase fruit of them, but they shake their heads in silence, and seem anxious
to hurry away. These women are fruit-gatherers and not fruit-sellers, consequently they cannot
sell a retail quantity to me without violating their caste.

My experiences in India have been singularly free from snakes; nothing have I seen of the dreaded
cobra, and about the only reminder of Eve's guileful tempter I encounter is on the road this
morning. He is only a two-foot specimen of his species, and is basking in a streak of sunshine
that penetrates the green arcade above. Remembering the judgment pronounced upon him in the
Garden of Eden, I attempt to acquit myself of the duty of bruising his head, by riding over
him. To avoid this indignity his snakeship performs the astonishing feat of leaping entirely
clear of the ground, something quite extraordinary, I believe, for a snake. The popular belief
is that a snake never lifts more than two-thirds of his length from the ground.

From the city of Hooghli southward, the road might with equal propriety be termed a street;
it follows down the west side of the Hooghli River and links together a chain of populous towns
and villages, the straggling streets of which sometimes fairly come together. Fruit-gardens,
crowded with big golden pomolos, delicious custard, apples, and bananas abound; in the Hooghli
villages the latter can be bought for two pice a dozen. Depots for the accumulation and shipment
of cocoa-nuts, where tons and tons of freshly gathered nuts are stacked up like measured mounds
of earth, are frequent along the river. Jute factories with thousands of whirring spindles
and the clackety-clack of bobbins fill the morning air with the buzz and clatter of vigorous
industrial life. Juggernaut cars, huge and gorgeous, occupy central places in many of the towns
passed through. The stalls and bazaars display a variety of European beverages very gratifying
from the stand-point of a hot and thirsty wayfarer, ranging from Dublin ginger ale to Pommery
Sec. California Bartlett pears, with seductive and appetizing labels on their tin coverings,
are seen in plenty, and shiny wrappers envelop oblong cakes of Limburger cheese.

For a few minutes my wheel turns through a district where the names of the streets are French,
and where an atmosphere of sleepy Catholic respectability pervades the streets. This is Chandernagor,
a wee bit of territory that the French have been permitted to retain here, a rosebud in the
button-hole of la belle France's national vanity. Chanderuagor is a bite of two thousand acres
out of the rich cake of the lower Hooghli Valley; but it is invested with all the dignity of
a governor-general's court, and is gallantly defended by a standing army of ten men. The Governor-General
of Chandernagor fully makes up in dignity what the place lacks in size and importance; when
the East India Railway was being built he refused permission for it to pass through his territory.
There is no doubt but that the land forces of Chandernagor would resist like bantams any wanton
or arbitrary violation of its territorial prerogatives by any mercenary railroad company, or
even by perfide Albion herself, if need be. The standing army of Chandernagor hovers over peaceful
India, a perpetual menace to the free and liberal government established by England. Some day
the military spirit of Chandernagor will break loose, and those ten soldiers will spread death
and devastation in some peaceful neighboring meadow, or ruthlessly loot some happy, pastoral
melon-garden. Let the Indian Government be warned in time and increase its army.

By nine o'clock the bicycle is threading its way among the moving throngs on the pontoon bridge
that spans the Hooghli between Howrah and Calcutta, and half an hour later I am enjoying a
refreshing bath in Cook's Adelphi Hotel.

I have no hesitation in saying that, except for the heat, my tour down the Grand Trunk Road
of India has been the most enjoyable part of the whole journey, thus far. What a delightful
trip a-wheel it would be, to be sure, were the temperature only milder!

My reception in Calcutta is very gratifying. A banquet by the Dalhousie Athletic Club is set
on foot the moment my arrival is announced. With such enthusiasm do the members respond that
the banquet takes place the very next day, and over forty applicants for cards have to be refused
for want of room. For genuine, hearty hospitality, and thoroughness in carrying out the interpretation
of the term as understood in its real home, the East, I unhesitatingly yield the palm to Anglo-Indians.
Time and again, on my ride through India, have I experienced Anglo-Indian hospitality broad
and generous as that of an Arab chief, enriched and rendered more acceptable by a feast of
good-fellowship as well as creature considerations.

The City of Palaces is hardly to be seen at its best in September, for the Viceregal Court
is now at Simla, and with it all the government officials and high life. Two months later and
Calcutta is more brilliant, in at least one particular, than any city in the world. Every evening
in "the season" there is a turn-out of splendid equipages on the bund road known as the Strand,
the like of which is not to be seen elsewhere, East or West. It is the Rotten Row of Calcutta
embellished with the gorgeousness of India. Wealthy natives display their luxuriousness in
vying with one another and with the government officials in the splendor of their carriages,
horses, and liveries.

Mr. P, a gentleman long resident in Calcutta, and a prominent member of the Dalhousie Club,
drives me in his dog-cart to the famous Botanical Gardens, whose wealth of unique vegetation,
gathered from all quarters of the world, would take volumes to do it justice should one attempt
a description. Its magnificent banyan is justly entitled to be called one of the wonders of
the world. Not less striking, however, in their way, are the avenues of palms; so straight,
so symmetrical are these that they look like rows of matched columns rather than works of nature.
Fort William, the original name of the city, and the foundation-stone of the British Indian
Empire, is visited with Mr. B, the American Consul, a gentleman from Oregon. The glory of Calcutta,
its magnificent Maidan, is overlooked by the American Consulate, and one of the most conspicuous
objects in the daytime is the stars and stripes floating from the consulate flag-staff.

On the 18th sails the opium steamer Wing-sang to Hong-Kong, aboard which I have been intending
to take passage, and whose date of departure has somewhat influenced my speed in coming toward
Calcutta. To cross overland from India to China with a bicycle is not to be thought of. This
I was not long in finding out after reaching India. Fearful as the task would be to reach the
Chinese frontier, with at least nine chances out of ten against being able to reach it, the
difficulties would then have only commenced.

The day before sailing, the bicycle branch of the Dalhousie Athletic Club turns out for a club
run around the Maidan, to the number of seventeen. It is in the evening; the long rows of electric
lamps stretching across the immense square shed a moon-like light over our ride, and the smooth,
broad roads are well worthy the metropolitan terminus of the Grand Trunk.

My stay of five days in the City of Palaces has been very enjoyable, and it is with real regret
that I bid farewell to those who come down to the shipping ghaut to see me off.

The voyage to the Andamans is characterized by fine weather enough; but from that onward we
steam through a succession of heavy rain-storms; and down in the Strait of Malacca it can pour
quite as heavily as on the Gangetic plains. At Penang it keeps up such an incessant downpour
that the beauties of that lovely port are viewed only from beneath the ship's awning. But it
is lovely enough even as seen through the drenching rain. Dense groves of cocoa-nut palms line
the shores, seemingly hugging the very sands of the beach. Solid cliffs of vegetation they
look, almost, so tall, dark, and straight, and withal so lovely, are these forests of palms.
Cocoa-nut palms flourish best, I am told, close to the sea, a certain amount of salt being
necessary for their healthful growth.

The weather is more propitious as we steam into Singapore, at which point we remain for half
a day, on the tenth day out from Calcutta. Singapore is indeed a lovely port. Within a stone's-throw
of where the Wing-sang ties up to discharge freight the dark-green mangrove bushes are bathing
in the salt waves. Very seldom does one see green vegetation mingling familiarly with the blue
water of the sea--there is usually a strip of sand or other verdureless shore--but one sees
it at lovely Singapore.

A fellow-passenger and I spend an hour or two ashore, riding in the first jiniriksha that has
come under my notice, from the wharf into town, about half a mile. We are impressed by the
commercial activity of the city; as well as by the cosmopolitan character of its population.
Chinese predominate, and thrifty, well-conditioned citizens these Celestials look, too, here
in Singapore. "Wherever John Chinaman gets half a show, as under the liberal and honest government
of the Straits Settlements or Hong-Kong, there you may be sure of finding him prosperous and
happy."

Hindoos, Parsees, Armenians, Jews, Siamese, Klings, and all the various Eurasian types, with
Europeans of all nationalities, make up the conglomerate population of Singapore. Here, on
the streets, too, one sees the strange cosmopolitan police force of the English Eastern ports,
made up of Chinese, Sikhs, and Englishmen.

CHAPTER XVII.

THROUGH CHINA.

Daily rains characterize our voyage from Singapore through the China Sea--rather unseasonable
weather, the captain says; and for the second time in his long experience as a navigator of
the China Sea, St. Elmo's lights impart a weird appearance to the spars and masts of his vessel.
The rain changes into misty weather as we approach the Ladrone Islands, and, emerging completely
from the wide track of the typhoon's moisture-laden winds on the following morning, we learn
later, upon landing at Hong-kong, that they have been without rain there for several weeks.

It is my purpose to dwell chiefly on my own experiences, and not to write at length upon the
sights of Kong-kong and Canton; hundreds of other travellers have described them, and to the
average reader they are no longer unique. Several days' delay is experienced in obtaining a
passport from the Viceroy of the two Quangs, and during the delay most of the sights of the
city are visited. The five-storied pagoda, the temple of the five hundred genii, the water-clock,
the criminal court--where several poor wretches are seen almost flayed alive with bamboos-flower-boats,
silk, jade-stone, ivory-carving shops, temple of tortures, and a dozen other interesting places
are visited under the pilotage of the genial guide and interpreter Ah Kum.

The strange boat population, numbering, according to some accounts, two hundred thousand people,
is one of the most interesting features of Canton life. Wonderfully animated is the river scene
as viewed from the balcony of the Canton Hotel, a hostelry kept by a Portuguese on the opposite
bank of the river from Canton proper.

The consuls and others express grave doubts about the wisdom of my undertaking in journeying
alone through China, and endeavor to dissuade me from making the attempt. Opinion, too, is
freely expressed that the Viceroy will refuse his permission, or, at all events, place obstacles
in my way. The passport is forthcoming on October 12th, however, and I lose no time in making
a start.

Thirteen miles from Canton I reach the city of Fat-shan. Five minutes after entering the gate
I am in the midst of a crowd of struggling, pushing natives, whose aggressive curiosity renders
it extremely difficult for me to move either backward or forward, or to do aught but stand
and endeavor to protect the bicycle from the crush. They seem a very good-natured crowd, on
the whole, and withal inclined to be courteous, but the pressure of numbers, and the utter
impossibility of doing anything, or prosecuting my search for the exit on the other side of
the city, renders the good intentions of individuals wholly inoperative.

With perseverance I finally succeed in extricating myself and following in the wake of an intelligent-looking
young man whom I fondly fancy I have enlightened to the fact that I am searching for the Sam-shue
road. The crowd follow at our heels as we tread the labyrinthine alleyways, that seem as interminable
as they are narrow and filthy. Every turn we make I am expecting the welcome sight of an open
gate and the green rice-fields beyond, when, after dodging about the alleyways of what seems
to be the toughest quarter of the city, my guide halts and points to the closed gates of a court.

It now becomes apparent that he has been mistaken from the beginning in regard to my wants:
instead of taking me to the Sam-shue gate, he has brought me to some kind of a house. "Sam-shue,
Sam-shue," I explain, making gestures of disapproval at the house. The young man regards me
with a look of utter bewilderment, and forthwith betakes himself off to the outer edge of the
crowd, henceforth contenting himself to join the general mass of open-eyed inquisitives. Another
attempt to again enlist his services only results in alienating his sympathies still further:
he has been grossly taken in by my assumption of intelligence. Having discovered in me a jackass
incapable of the Fat-shan pronunciation of Sam-shue, he retires on his dignity from further
interest in my affairs.

Female faces peer curiously through little barred apertures in the gate, and grin amusedly
at the sight of a Fankwae, as I stand for a few minutes uncertain of what course to pursue.
From sheer inability to conceive of anything else I seize upon a well-dressed youngster among
the crowd, tender him a coin, and address him questioningly--"Sam-shue lo. Sam-shue lo." The
youth regards me with monkeyish curiosity for a second, and then looks round at the crowd and
giggles. Nothing is plainer than the evidence that nobody present has the slightest conception
of what I want to do, or where I wish to go. Not that my pronunciation of Sam-shue is unintelligible
(as I afterward discover), but they cannot conceive of a Fankwae in the streets of Fat-shan
inquiring for Sam-shue; doubtless many have never heard of that city, and perhaps not one in
the crowd has ever been there or knows anything of the road. As a matter of fact, there is
no "road," and the best anyone could do would be to point out its direction in a general way.
All this, however, comes with after-knowledge.

Imagine a lone Chinaman who desired to learn the road to Philadelphia surrounded by a dense
crowd in the Bowery, New York, and uttering the one word "Phaladilfi," and the reader gains
a feeble conception of my own predicament in Fat-shan, and the ludicrousness of the situation.
Finally the people immediately about me motion for me to proceed down the street.

Like a drowning man, I am willing to clutch wildly even at a straw, in the absence of anything
more satisfactory, and so follow their directions. Passing through squalid streets occupied
by loathsome beggars, naked youngsters, slatternly women, matronly sows with Utters of young
pigs, and mangy pariahs, we emerge into the more respectable business thoroughfares again,
traversing streets that I recognize as having passed through an hour ago. Having brought me
here, the leaders in the latest movement seem to think they have accomplished their purpose,
leaving me again to my own resources.

Yet again am I in the midst of a tightly wedged crowd, helpless to make myself understood,
and equally helpless to find my own way. Three hours after entering the city I am following-the
Fates only know whither--the leadership of an individual who fortunately "sabes" a word or
so of pidgin English, and who really seems to have discovered my wants. First of all he takes
me inside a temple-like building and gives me a drink of tea and a few minutes' respite from
the annoying pressure of the crowds; he then conducts me along a street that looks somewhat
familiar, leads me to the gate I first entered, and points triumphantly in the direction of Canton!

I now know as much about the road to Sam-shue as I did before reaching Fat-shan, and have learned
a brief lesson of Chinese city experience that is anything but encouraging for the future.
The feeling of relief at escaping from the narrow streets and the garrulous, filthy crowds,
however, overshadows all sense of disappointment. The lesson of Fat-shan it is proposed to
turn to good account by following the country paths in a general course indicated by my map
from city to city rather than to rely on the directions given by the people, upon whom my words
and gestures seem to be entirely thrown away.

For a couple of miles I retraverse the path by which I reached Fat-shan before encountering
a divergent pathway, acceptable as, leading distinctly toward the northwest. The inevitable
Celestial is right on hand, extracting no end of satisfaction from following, shadow-like,
close behind and watching my movements. Pointing along the divergent northwest road, I ask
him if this is the koon lo to Sam-shue; for answer he bestows upon me an expansive but wholly
expressionless grin, and points silently toward Canton. These repeated failures to awaken the
comprehension of intelligent-looking Chinamen, or, at all events, to obtain from them the slightest
information in regard to my road, are somewhat bewildering, to say the least. So much of this
kind of experience crowded into the first day, however, is very fortunate, as awakening me
with healthy rudeness to a realizing sense of what I am to expect; it places me at once on
my guard, and enables me to turn on the tap of self-reliance and determination to the proper notch.

Shaking my head at the almond-eyed informant who wants me to return to Canton, I strike off
in a northwesterly course. The Chinaman grins and chuckles humorously at my departure, as though
his risibilities were probed to their deepest depths at my perverseness in going contrary to
his directions. As plainly as though spoken in the purest English, his chuckling laughter echoes
the thought: "You'll catch it, Mr. Fankwae, before you have gone very far in that direction;
you'll wish you had listened to me and gone back to 'Quang-tung.'"

The country is a marvellous field-garden of rice, vegetables, and sugar-cane for some miles.
The villages, with their peculiar, characteristic Chinese architecture and groves of dark bamboo,
are striking and pretty. The paths seem to wind about regardless of any special direction;
the chief object of the road-makers would appear to have been to utilize every little strip
of inferior soil for the public thoroughfare wherever it might be found. A scrupulous respect
for individual rights and the economy of the soil has resulted in adding many a weary mile
of pathway between one town and another. To avoid destroying the productive capacity of a dozen
square yards of alluvial soil, hundreds of people are daily obliged to follow horseshoe bends
around the edges of graveyards that after two hundred paces bring them almost to within jumping
distance of their first divergence.

Occasionally the path winds its serpentine course between two tall patches of sugar-cane, forming
an alleyway between the dark-green walls barely wide enough for two people to pass. Natives
met in these confined passages, as isolated from the eyes of the world as though between two
walls of brick, invariably recoil a moment with fright at the unexpected apparition of a Fankwae;
then partially recovering themselves, they nimbly occupy as little space as possible on one
side, and eye me with suspicion and apprehension as I pass.

Great quantities of sugar-cane are chewed in China, both by children and grown people, and
these patches grown in the rich Choo-kiang Valley for the Fat-shan, Canton, and Hong-kong markets
are worth the price of a day's journeying to see. So marvellously neat and thrifty are they,
that one would almost believe every separate stalk had been the object of special care and
supervision from day to day since its birth; every cane-garden is fenced with neat bamboo pickets,
to prevent depredation at the hands of the thousands of sweet-toothed kleptomaniacs who file
past and eye the toothsome stalks wistfully every day.

After a few miles the hitherto dead level of the valley is broken by low hills of reddish clay,
and here the stone paths merge into well-beaten trails that on reasonably level soil afford
excellent wheeling. The hillsides are crowded with graves, which, instead of the sugar-loaf
"ant hillocks" of the paddy-fields, assume the traditional horseshoe shape of the Chinese ancestral
grave. On the barren, gravelly hills, unfit for cultivation, the thrifty and economical Celestial
inters the remains of his departed friends. Although in making this choice he is supposed to
be chiefly interested in securing repose for his ancestors' souls, he at the same time secures
the double advantage of a well-drained cemetery, and the preservation of his cultivable lands
intact. Everything, indeed, would seem to be made subservient to this latter end; every foot
of productive soil seems to be held as of paramount importance in the teeming delta of the
Choo-kiang.

Beyond the first of these cemetery hills, peopled so thickly with the dead, rise the tall pawn-towers
of the large village of Chun-Kong-hoi. The natural dirt-paths enable me to ride right up to
the entrance-gate of the main street. Good-natured crowds follow me through the street; and
outside the gate of departure I favor them with a few turns on the smooth flags of a rice-winnowing
floor. The performance is hailed with shouts of surprise and delight, and they urge me to remain
in Chun-Kong-hoi all night.

An official in big tortoise-shell spectacles examines my passport, reading it slowly and deliberately
aloud in peculiar sing-song tones to the crowd, who listen with all-absorbing attention. He
then orders the people to direct me to a certain inn. This inn blossoms forth upon my as yet
unaccustomed vision as a peculiarly vile and dingy little hovel, smoke-blackened and untidy
as a village smithy. Half a dozen rude benches covered with reed mats and provided with uncomfortable
wooden pillows represent what sleeping accommodations the place affords. The place is so forbidding
that I occupy a bench outside in preference to the evil-smelling atmosphere within.

As it grows dark the people wonder why I don't prefer the interior of the dimly lighted hittim.
My preference for the outside bench is not unattended with hopes that, as they can no longer
see my face, my greasy-looking, half-naked audience would give me a moment's peace and quiet.
Nothing, however, is further from their thoughts; on the contrary, they gather closer and closer
about me, sticking their yellow faces close to mine and examining my features as critically
as though searching the face of an image. By and by it grows too dark even for this, and then
some enterprising individual brings a couple of red wax tapers, placing one on either side
of me on the bench.

By the dim religious light of these two candles, hundreds of people come and peer curiously
into my face, and occasionally some ultra-inquisitive mortal picks up one of the tapers and
by its aid makes a searching examination of my face, figure, and clothes. Mischievous youngsters,
with irreligious abandon, attempt to make the scene comical by lighting joss-sticks and waving
bits of burning paper.

The tapers on either side, and the youngsters' irreverent antics, with the evil-spirit-dispersing
joss-sticks, make my situation so ridiculously suggestive of an idol that I am perforce compelled
to smile. The crowd have been too deeply absorbed in the contemplation of my face to notice
this side-show; but they quickly see the point, and follow my lead with a general round of
merriment. About ten o'clock I retire inside; the irrepressible inquisitives come pouring in
the door behind me, but the hittim-keeper angrily drives them out and bars the door.

Several other lodgers occupy the room in common with myself; some are smoking tobacco, and
others are industriously "hitting the pipe." The combined fumes of opium and tobacco are well-nigh
unbearable, but thera is no alternative. The next bench to mine is occupied by a peripatetic
vender of drugs and medicines. Most of his time is consumed in smoking opium in dreamy oblivion
to all else save the sensuous delights embodied in that operation itself. Occasionally, however,
when preparing for another smoke, he addresses me at length in about one word of pidgin-English
to a dozen of simon-pure Cantonese. In a spirit of friendliness he tenders me the freedom of
his pipe and little box of opium, which is, of course, "declined with thanks."

Long into the midnight hours my garrulous companions sit around and talk, and smoke, and eat
peanuts. Mosquitoes likewise contribute to the general inducement to keep awake; and after
the others have finally lain down, my ancient next neighbor produces a small mortar and pestle
and busies himself pounding drugs. For this operation he assumes a pair of large, round spectacles,
that in the dimly lighted apartment and its nocturnal associations are highly suggestive of
owls and owlish wisdom. The old quack works away at his mortar, regardless of the approach
of daybreak, now and then pausing to adjust the wick in his little saucer of grease, or to
indulge in the luxury of a peanut.

Such are the experiences of my first night at a Chinese village hittim; they will not soon
be forgotten.

The proprietor of the hittim seems overjoyed at my liberality as I present him a ten-cent string
of tsin for the night's lodging. Small as it sounds, this amount is probably three or four
times more than he obtains from his Chinese guests.

The country beyond Chun-Kong-hoi is alternately level and hilly, the former highly cultivated,
and the latter occupied mostly with graves. Peanut harvest is in progress, and men, women,
and children are everywhere about the fields. The soil of a peanut-bed to the depth of several
inches is dug up and all passed through a sieve, the meshes of which are of the proper size
to retain the nuts. The last possible grain, nut, or particle of life-sustaining vegetable
or insect life is extracted from the soil, ducks and chickens being cooped and herded on the
fields and gardens after human ingenuity has reached its limit of research.

Big wooden pails of warm tea stand about the fields, from which everybody helps himself when
thirsty. A party of peanut-harvesters are regaling themselves with stewed turnips and tough,
underdone pieces of dried liver. They invite me to partake, handing me a pair of chopsticks
and a bowl.

Gangs of coolies, strung in Indian file along the paths, are met, carrying lacquer-ware from
some interior town to Fat-shau and Canton. Others are encountered with cages of kittens and
puppies, which they are conveying to the same market. These are men whose business is collecting
these table delicacies from outlying villages for the city markets, after the manner of egg
and chicken buyers in America.

My course at length brings me to the town of Si-noun, on the south bank of the Choo-kiang.
The river is here prevented from inundating the low country adjacent by strong levees; along
these are well-tramped paths that afford much good wheeling, as well as providing a well-defined
course toward Sam-shue. After following the river for some miles, however, I conclude that
its course is altogether more southerly than there is any necessity for me to go; so, crossing
the river at a village ferry, I strike a trail across-country in a north-westerly direction
that must sooner or later bring me to the banks of the Pi-kiang. Sam-shue is at the junction
of these two rivers, the one flowing from west to east and the other from north to south; by
striking across-country, but one side of a triangle is traversed instead of the two formed
by the rivers. My objective point for the night is Lo-pow, the first town of any size up the
Pi-kiang.

A volunteer guide from one of the villages extricates me from a bewildering network of trails
in the afternoon, and guides me across to the bottom-lands of the Pi-kiang. Receiving a reward,
he eyes the piece of silver a moment wistfully, puts it away, and guides me half a mile farther.
Pointing to the embankment of the Pi-kiang in the distance ahead, he presents himself for further
reward. Receiving this, he thereupon conceives the brilliant idea of piloting me over successive
short stages, with a view of obtaining tsin at the end of each stage.

John Chinaman is no more responsible, morally, for the "dark ways and vain tricks" accredited
to him in the Western World than a crow is for the blackness of his plumage. The desperate
struggle for existence in this crowded empire, that has no doubt been a normal condition of
its society for ages, has developed traits of character in these later generations which are
as unchangeable as the skin of the Ethiopian or the spots of the leopard. Either of these can
be whitened over, but not readily changed; the same may be truthfully said of the moral leprosy
of the average Celestial. Here is a simple peanut-farmer's son, who knows nothing of the outer
world, yet no sooner does a stray opportunity present than he develops immediately financial
trickery worthy of a Constantinople guide.

The paths across the Pi-kiang Valley are more walls than paths, often rising ten feet above
the paddy-fields, and presenting a width of not more than two feet. Good riding, however, is
happily found on the levees, and a few miles up-stream brings me to Lo-pow.

The hittim at Lo-pow is somewhat superior to that of yesterday; it is a two-storied building,
and the proprietor hustles me up-stairs in short order, and locks me in. This is to prevent
any possible hostility from the crowd that immediately swarms the place; for while I am in
his house he is in a measure held responsible for my treatment. The bicycle is kept down-stairs,
where it performs the office of a vent for the rampant curiosity of the thousands who besiege
the proprietor for a peep at me.

A little cup and a teapot of hot tea is brought me at once, and my order taken for supper;
the characters on ray limited written vocabulary proving invaluable as an aid toward making
my g-astro-nomic preferences understood. A dish of boiled fish, pickled ginger, chicken entrees,
young onions, together with rice enough to feed a pig, form the ingredients of a very good
Chinese meal. Chop-sticks are, of course, provided; but, as yet, my dexterity in the manipulation
of these articles is decidedly of the negative order, and so my pocket-knife performs the dual
office of knife and fork; for the rice, one can use, after a manner, the little porcelain dipper
provided for ladling an evil-smelling liquid over that staple. Bread, there is none in China;
rice is the bread of both this country and Japan. During the night one gets a reminder of the
bek-jees of Constantinople in the performances of a night policeman, who passes by at intervals
loudly beating a drum. This, together with roystering mosquitoes, and a too liberal indulgence
in strong tea, banishes sleep to-night almost as effectually as the pounding of the old drug-vender's
pestle did at Chun-Kong-hoi.

The rooms below are full of sleeping coolies, cat-and-dog hucksters and travellers, when I
descend at day-break to start. The first two hours are wasted in wandering along a levee that
leads up a tributary stream, coming back again and getting ferried to the right embankment.
The riding is variable, and the zigzagging of the levee often compels me to travel three miles
for the gaining of one. My elevated path commands a good view of the traffic on the river,
and of the agricultural operations on the adjacent lowlands.

The boating scenes on the river are animated, and peculiarly Chinese. The northern monsoons,
called typhoons in China, are blowing strongly down stream, while the current itself is naturally
strong; under the influence of wind and current combined, junks and sampans with butterfly
sails all set are going down stream at racing speed. In striking contrast to these, are the
up-stream boats, crawling along at scarcely perceptible pace against the current, in response
to the rhythmical movements of a line of men, women, and children harnessed one behind another
to a long tow-line.

The water in the river is low, and the larger boats have to be watched carefully to prevent
grounding; sometimes, when the river is wide and the passable channel but a narrow place in
the middle, the tow-people have to take to the water, often wading waist deep. Men and women
are dressed pretty much alike, but in addition to the broad-legged pantaloons and blue blouse,
the women are distinguished by a checked apron. Some of them wear broad bamboo hats, while
others wear nothing but nature's covering, or perchance a handkerchief tied around their heads.
The traffic on the river is something enormous, scores of boats dotting the river at every
turn. It is no longer difficult to believe the oft-heard assertion, that the tonnage of China's
inland fleet is equal to the ocean tonnage of all the world.

Below me on the right the scene is scarcely less animated; one would think the whole population
of the country were engaged in pumping water over the rice-fields, by the number of tread-wheels
on the go. One of the most curious sights in China is to see people working these irrigating
machines all over the fields. Instead of the buffaloes of Egypt and India, everything here
is accomplished by the labor of man. The tread-wheel is usually worked by two men or women,
who steady themselves by holding to a cross-bar, while their weight revolves the tread-wheel
and works a chain of water-pockets. The pockets dip water from a hole or ditch and empty it
into troughs, whence it spreads over the field. The screeching of these wheels can be heard
for miles, and the grotesque Chinese figures stepping up, up, up in pairs, yet never ascending,
the women singing in shrill, falsetto voices, and the incessant gabble of conversation, makes
a picture of industry the like of which is to be seen in no other part of the world.

Chin-yuen, my next halting-place, forma something of a crescent on the west shore of the river,
and is distinguished by a seven-storied pagoda at the southern extremity of its curvature.
As seen from the east bank, the city and its background of reddish hills, two peaks of which
rise to the respectable height of, I should judge, two thousand feet, is not without certain
pretensions to beauty. Many of the houses on the river front are built over the water on piles,
and broad flights of stone steps lead down to the water.

The usual boat population occupy a swarm of sampans anchored before the city, while hundreds
of others are moving hither and thither. The water is intensely blue, and the broad reaches
of Band are dazzlingly white; on either bank are dark patches of feathery bamboo; the white,
blue and green, the pagoda, the city with its towering pawn-houses, and the whole flanked by
red clay hills, forms a picture that certainly is not wanting in life and color.

The quarters assigned me at the hittim, here, are again upstairs, and my room-companion is
an attenuated opium smoker, who is apparently a permanent lodger. This apartment is gained
by a ladder, and after submitting to much annoyance from the obtrusive crowds below invading
our quarters, my companion drives them all out with the loud lash of his tongue, and then draws
up the only avenue of communication. He is engaged in cooking his supper and in washing dirty
dishes; when the crowd below gets too noisy and clamorous he steps to the opening and coolly
treats them to a basin of dish-water. This he repeats a number of times during the evening,
saving his dish-water for that special purpose.

The air is reeking with smoke and disagreeable odors from below, where cooking is going on,
and pigs wallow in filth in a rear apartment. The back-room of a Chinese inn is nearly always
a pigsty, and a noisome place on general principles. Later in the evening a few privileged
characters are permitted to come up, and the room quickly changes into a regular opium-den.
A tough day's journey and two previous nights of wakefulness, enable me to fall asleep, notwithstanding
the evil smells, the presence of the opium-smoking visitors, and the grunting pigs and talkative
humans down below.

During the day I have sprained my right knee, and it becomes painful in the night and wakes
me up. In the morning my way is made through the waking city with a painful limp, that gives
rise to much unsympathetic giggling among the crowd at my heels. Perhaps they think all Pankwaes
thus hobble along; their giggling, however, is doubtless evidence of the well-known pitiless
disposition of the Chinese. The sentiments of pity and consideration for the sufferings of
others, are a well-nigh invisible quality of John Chinaman's character, and as I limp slowly
along, I mentally picture myself with a broken leg or serious illness, alone among these people.
A Fankwae with his leg broken! a Fankwae lying at the point of death! why, the whole city would
want to witness such an extraordinary sight; there would be no keeping them out; one would
be the centre of a tumultuous rabble day and night!

The river contains long reaches leading in a totally contrary direction to what I know my general
course to be. My objective point is a little east of north, but for miles this morning I am
headed considerably south of the rising sun. There is nothing for it, however, but to keep
the foot-trail that now follows along the river bank, conforming to all its multifarious crooks
and angles. Every mile or two the path is overhung by a big bamboo hedge, behind which is hidden
a village.

The character of these little riverside villages varies from peaceful agricultural and fishing
communities, to nests of river-pirates and hard characters generally, who covertly prey on
the commerce of the Pi-kiang, and commit depredations in the surrounding country. A glimpse
of me is generally caught by someone behind the hedge as I ride or trundle past; shouts of
"the Fankwae, the Fankwae," and screams of laughter at the prospect of seeing one of those
queer creatures, immediately follow the discovery. The gabble and laughter and hurrying from
the houses to the hedge, the hasty scrambling through the little wicket gates, all occurs with
a flutter and noisy squabble that suggest a flock of excited geese.

A few miles above Chin-yuen the river enters a rocky gorge, and the marvellous beauty of the
scenery rivets me to the spot in wondering contemplation for an hour. It is the same picture
of rocky mountains, blue water, junks, bridges, temples, and people, one sometimes sees on
sets of chinaware. Never was water so intensely blue, or sand so dazzlingly white, as the Pi-kiang
at the entrance to this gorge this sunny morning; on its sky-blue bosom float junks and sampans,
their curious sails appearing and disappearing around a bend in the canon. The brown battlemented
cliffs are relieved by scattering pines, and in the interstices by dense thickets of bamboo;
temples, pagodas, and a village complete a scene that will be long remembered as one of the
loveliest bits of scenery the whole world round. The scene is pre-eminently characteristic,
and after seeing it, one no longer misunderstands the Chinaman who persists in thinking his
country the great middle kingdom of landscape beauty and sunshine, compared to which all others
are--"regions of mist and snow."

Across the creeks which occasionally join issue with the river, are erected frail and wabbly
bamboo foot-rails; some of these are evidently private enterprises, as an ancient Celestial
is usually on hand for the collection of tiny toll. Narrow bridges, rude steps cut in the face
of the cliffs, trails along narrow ledges, over rocky ridges, down across gulches, and anon
through loose shale on ticklishly sloping banks, characterize the passage through the canon.
The sun is broiling hot, and my knee swollen and painful. It is barely possible to crawl along
at a snail's pace by keeping my game leg stiff; bending the knee is attended with agony. Frequent
rests are necessary, and an examination reveals my knee badly inflamed.

Hours are consumed in scrambling for three or four miles up and down steps, and over the most
abominable course a bicycle was ever dragged, carried, up-ended and lugged over. At the end
of that time I reach a temple occupying a romantic position in a rocky defile, and where a
flight of steps leads down to the water's edge. All semblance of anything in the nature of
a continuous path terminates at the temple, and hailing a sampan bound up stream, I obtain
passage to the northern extremity of the canyon.

The sampan is towed by a team of seven coolies, harnessed to a small, strong rope made of bamboo
splint. It is interesting, yet painful, to see these men clambering like goats about the rocky
cliffs, sometimes as much as a hundred feet above the water; one of the number does nothing
else but throw the rope over protuberant points of rock. One would naturally imagine that Chinese
enterprise would be sufficient to construct something like a decent towpath through this caiion,
considering the number of boats towed through it daily; but everything in China seems to be
done by the main strength and awkwardness of individuals.

The boatmen seem honest-hearted fellows; at noon they invite me to participate in their frugal
meal of rice and turnips. Passing sampans are greeted by the crew of our boat with the intelligence
that a Fankwae is aboard; the news being invariably conveyed with a droll "ha-ha!" and received
with the same. Indeed, the average Chinese river-man or agriculturist, the simple-hearted children
of the water and the soil, seem to regard the Fankwae as a creature so remarkably comical,
that the mere mention of him causes them to laugh.

Near the end of the canon the boat is moored at a village for the day, and my knee feeling
much better from the rest, I pursue my course up the bank of the river. The bank is level in
a general sense, but much cut up with small tributary creeks.

While I am resting on the bank of one of these creeks, partly hidden behind a clump of bamboo,
a slave-woman carrying her mistress pick-a-back appears upon the scene. Catching sight of me,
the golden lily utters a little cry of alarm and issues hurried orders to her maid. The latter
wheels round and scuttles back along the path with her frightened burden, both maid and golden
lily no doubt very thankful at finding themselves unpursued. A few minutes after their hasty
flight, three men approach my resting-place with pitchforks. The frightened females have probably
told them of the presence of some queer-looking object lurking behind the bushes, and like
true heroes they have shouldered their pitchforks and sallied forth to investigate. A whoop
and a feint from me would either put them to flight, or precipitate a conflict, as is readily
seen from the extreme cautiousness of their advance. As I remained perfectly still, however,
they approach by short stages, and with many stops for consultation, until near enough to satisfy
themselves of my peaceful character. They loiter around until my departure, when they follow
behind for a few hundred yards, watching me narrowly until I am past their own little cluster
of houses.

It is almost dark when I arrive at the next village, prepared to seek such accommodations for
the night as the place affords, if any. The people, however, seem decidedly inclined to give
me the cold shoulder, eying me suspiciously from a respectful distance, instead of clustering,
as usual, close about me. Being pretty tired and hungry, and knowing absolutely nothing of
the distance to the next place, I endeavor to cultivate their friendship by smiles, and by
addressing the nearest youngster in polite greetings of "chin-chin."

All this proves of no avail; they seem one and all to be laboring under the impression that
my appearance is of evil portent to themselves. Perchance some social calamity they have just
been visited with, is attributed in their superstitious minds to the fell influence of the
foreign devil, who has so suddenly bobbed up in their midst just at this unhappy, inauspicious
moment. Perad-venture some stray and highly exaggerated bit of news in regard to Fankwae aggression
in Tonquin (the French Tonquin expedition) has happened to reach the little interior village
this very day, and the excited people see in me an emissary of destruction, here for the diabolical
purpose of spying out their country. A dozen reasons, however, might be here advanced, and
all be far wide of the truth.

Whatever their hostility is all about is a mystery to me, the innocent object of sundry scowls
and angry gestures. One individual contemplates me for a minute with unconcealed aversion,
and then breaks out into a torrent of angry words and excited gestures. From all appearances,
it behooves me to be clearing out, ere the pent-up feelings of the people find vent in some
aggressive manner, as a result of this person's incitant eloquence. Greatly puzzled to account
for this unpleasant reception, I quietly take myself off.

It is now getting pretty dark, and considering the unfortunate condition of my knee, the situation
is, to say the least, annoying. It is not without apprehensions of being followed that I leave
the village; and ere I am two hundred yards away, torches are observed moving rapidly about,
and soon loud shouts of "Fankwae, Fankwae!" tell me that a number of men are in pursuit.

Darkness favors my retreat, and scrambling down the river bank, I shape my course across the
sand and shallow side-channels to a small island, thickly covered with bamboo, the location
of which is now barely outlined against the lingering streaks of daylight in the western sky.
Half an hour is consumed in reaching this; but no small satisfaction is derived from seeing
the flaming torches of my pursuers continue on up the bank. The dense bamboo thickets afford
an excellent hiding-place, providing my divergence is not suspected. A little farther up-stream,
on the bank, are the lights of another village; and as I crouch here in the darkness I can
see the torches of the pursuing party entering this village, and can hear them making shouting
inquiries of their neighbors about the foreign devil.

The thicket is alive with ravenous mosquitoes that issue immediately their peculiar policy
of assurance against falling asleep. Unappeased hunger, mosquitoes, and the perilousness of
the situation occupy my attention for some hours, when, seeing nothing further of the vengeful
aspirants for my gore, I drag my weary way up-stream, through sand and shallow water. Keeping
in the river-bed for several miles, I finally regain the bank, and, although my inflamed knee
treats me to a twinge of agony at every step, I steadily persevere till morning.

An hour or two of morning light brings me to the town of Quang-shi, after an awful tugging
through sand-hills, unbridged ravines and water. Hardly able to stand from fatigue and the
pain of my knee, the desperate nature of the road, or, more correctly, the entire absence of
anything of the kind, and the disquieting incident of the night, awaken me to a realizing sense
of my helplessness should the people of Quang-shi prove to be hostile. Conscious of my inability
to run or ride, savagely hungry, and desperately tired, I enter Quang-shi with the spirit of
a hunted animal at bay. With revolver pulled round to the front ready to hand, and half expecting
occasion to use it in defence of my life, I grimly speculate on the number of my cartridges
and the probability of each one bagging a sore-eyed Celestial ere my own lonely and reluctant
ghost is yielded up.

All this, fortunately, is found to be superfluous speculation, for the good people of Quang-shi
prove, at least, passively friendly; a handful of tsin divided among the youngsters, and a
general spendthrift scatterment of ten cents' worth of the same base currency among the stall-keepers
for chow-chow heightens their friendly interest in me to an appreciable extent.

Chao-choo-foo is the next city marked on my itinerary, but as Quang-shi is not on my map I
have no means of judging whether Chao-choo-foo is four li up-stream or forty. All attempts
to obtain some idea of the distance from the natives result in the utter bewilderment of both
questioned and querist. No amount of counting on fingers, or marking on paper, or interrogative
arching of eyebrows, or repetition of "Chao-choo-foo li" sheds a glimmer of light on the mind
of the most intelligent-looking shopkeeper in Quang-shi concerning my wants. Yet, withal, he
courteously bears with my, to him, idiotic pantomime and barbarous pronunciation, and repeats
parrot-like after me "Chao-choo-foo li; Chao-choo-foo li" with sundry beaming smiles and friendly
smirks.

Far easier, however, is it to make them understand that I want to go to that city by boat.
The loquacious owner of a twenty-foot sampan puts in his appearance as soon as my want is ascertained,
and favors me with an unpunctuated speech of some five minutes' duration. For fear I shouldn't
quite understand the tenor of his remarks, he insists on thrusting his yellow Mongolian phiz
within an inch or two of mine own. At the end of five minutes I thrust my fingers in my ears
out of sheer consideration for his vocal organs, and turn away; but the next moment he is fronting
me again, and repeating himself with ever-increasing volubility. Finding my dulness quite impenetrable,
he searches out another loquacious mortal, and by the aid of the tiny beam-scales every Chinaman
carries for weighing broken silver, they finally make it understood that for six big rounds
(dollars) he will convey me in his boat to Chao-choo-foo. Understanding this, I promptly engage
his services.

Bundles of joss-sticks, rice, fish, pork, and a jar of samshoo (rice arrack) are taken aboard,
and by ten o'clock we are underway. Two men, named respectively Ah Sum and Yung Po, a woman,
and a baby of eighteen months comprise the company aboard. Ah Sum, being but an inconsequential
wage-worker, at once assumes the onerous duties of towman; Yung Po, husband, father, and sole
proprietor of the sampan, manipulates the rudder, which is in front, and occasionally assists
Ah Sum by poling. The boat-wife stands at the stern and regulates the length of the tow-line;
the baby puts in the first few hours in wondering contemplation of myself.

The strange river-life of China is all about us; small fishing-boats are everywhere plying
their calling. They are constructed with a central chamber full of auger-holes for the free
admittance of water, in which the fish are conveyed alive to market, or imprisoned during the
owner's pleasure. Big freight sampans float past, propelled by oars if going down-stream, and
by the combined efforts of tow-line and poles if against the current. The propelling poles
are fitted with neatly carved "crutch-trees" to fit the shoulder; the polers, sometimes numbering
as many as a dozen, walk back and forth along side-planks and encourage themselves with cries
of "ha-i, ha-i, ha-i." A peculiar and indescribable inflection would lead one, hearing and
not seeing these boatmen, to fancy himself listening to a flight of brants in stormy weather.
Yung Po, poling by himself, gives utterance to a prolonged cry of "Atta-atta-atta aaoo ii,"
every time he hustles along the side-plank.

Much of the scenery along the river is lovely in the extreme, and at dark we cast anchor in
a smooth, silent reach of the river just within the frowning gateway of a rocky canon. Dark
masses of rock tower skyward five hundred feet in a perpendicular wall, casting a dark shadow
over the twilight shimmer of the water. In the north, the darksome prospect is invested with
a lurid glow, apparently from some large fire; the canon immediately about our anchoring place
is alive with moving torches, representing the restless population of the river, and on the
banks clustering points of light here and there denote the locality of a village.

The last few miles has been severe work for poor Ah Sum, clambering among rocks fit only for
the footsteps of a goat. He sticks to the tow-line manfully to the end, but wading out to the
boat when over-heated, causes him to be seized with violent cramps all over; in his agony he
rolls about the deck and implores Yung Po to put him out of his misery forthwith. His case
is evidently urgent, and Yung Po and his wife proceed to administer the most heroic treatment.
Hot samshoo is first poured down his throat and rubbed on his joints, then he is rolled over
on his stomach; Yung Po then industriously flagellates him in the bend of the knees with a
flat bamboo, and his wife scrapes him vigorously down the spine with the sharp edge of a porcelain
bowl. Ah Sam groans and winces under this barbarous treatment, but with solicitous upbraidings
they hold him down until they have scraped and pounded him black and blue, almost from head
to foot. Then they turn him over on his back for a change of programme. A thick joint of bamboo,
resembling a quart measure, is planted against his stomach; lighted paper is then inserted
beneath, and the "cup" held firmly for a moment, when it adheres of its own accord.

This latter instrument is the Chinese equivalent of our cupping-glass; like many other inventions,
it was probably in use among them ages before anything of the kind was known to us. Its application
to the stomach for the relief of cramps would seem to indicate the possession of drawing powers;
I take it to be a substitute for mustard plasters. While the wife attends to this, Yung Po
pinches him severely all over the throat and breast, converting all that portion of his anatomy
into little blue ridges. By the time they get through with him, his last estate seems a good
deal worse than his first, but the change may have saved his life.

Before retiring for the night lighted joss-sticks are stuck in the bow of the sampan, and lighted
paper is waved about to propitiate the spirit of the waters and of the night; small saucers
of rice, boiled turnip, and peanut-oil are also solemnly presented to the tutelary gods, to
enlist their active sympathies as an offset against the fell designs of mischievous spirits.
Falling asleep under the soothing influence of these extraordinary precautions for our safety
and a supper of rice, ginger, and fresh fish, I slumber peacefully until well under way next
morning. Ah Sum is stiff and sore all over, but he bravely returns to his post, and under the
combined efforts of pole and tow-line we speed along against a swift current at a pace that
is almost visible to the naked eye.

This morning I purchase a splendid trout, weighing seven or eight pounds, for about twenty
cents; off this we make a couple of quite excellent meals. Observing my awkward attempts to
pick up pieces of fish with the chop-sticks, the good, thoughtful boat-wife takes a bone hair-pin
out of her sleek, oily back hair, and offers it to me to use as a fork!

Before noon we emerge into a more open country; straight ahead can be seen an eight-storied
pagoda. Beaching the pagoda, we pass, on the opposite shore, the town of Yang-tai (?). Fleets
of big junks sail gayly down stream, laden with bales and packages of merchandise from Chao-choo-foo,
Nam-hung, and other manufacturing points up the river. Others resemble floating hay-ricks,
bearing huge cargoes of coarse hay and pine-needles down for the manufacture of paper.

Several war-junks are anchored before Yang-tai; unlike the peaceful (?) merchantmen on the
Choo-kiang, they are armed with but a single cannon. They are, however, superior vessels compared
with other craft on the river, and are manned with crews of twenty to thirty theatrical-looking
characters; rows of muskets and boarding-pikes are observed, and conspicuous above all else
are several large and handsome flags of the graceful triangular shape peculiar to China.

The crew of these warlike vessels are uniformed in the gayest of red, and in the middle of
their backs and breasts are displayed white "bull's eyes" about twelve inches in diameter.
The object of these big white circular patches appears to be the presentation of a suitable
place for the conspicuous display of big characters, denoting the district or city to which
they belong; or in other words labels. The wicked and sarcastic Fankwaes in the treaty ports,
however, render a far different explanation. They say that a Chinese soldier always misses
a bull's-eye when he shoots at it--under no circumstances does he score a bull's-eye. Observing
this, the authorities concluded that Fankwae soldiers were tarred with the same unhappy feather.
With true Asiatic astuteness, they therefore conceived and carried out the brilliant idea of
decorating all Celestial warriors with bull's-eyes, front and rear, as a measure of protection
against the bullets of the Fankwae soldiers in battle.

Ah Sum becomes sick and weary at noon and is taken aboard, Tung Po and his better half taking
alternate turns at the line. Toward evening the river makes a big sweep to the southeast, bringing
the prevailing north wind round to our advantage; if advantage it can be called, in blowing
us pretty well south when our destination lies north. The sail is hoisted, and the crew confines
itself to steering and poling the boat clear of bars.

Poor Ah Sum is subjected to further clinical maltreatment this evening as we lay at anchor
before No-foo-gong; while we are eating rice and pork and listening to the sounds of revelry
aboard the big passenger junks anchored near by, he is writhing and groaning with pain.

He is too stiff and sore and exhausted to do anything in the morning; the woman goes out to
pull, and the babe makes Rome howl, with little intermission, till she comes back. The boat-woman
seems an industrious, wifely soul; Yung Po probably paid as high as forty dollars for her;
at that price I should say she is a decided bargain. Occasionally, when Yung Po cruelly orders
her overboard to take a hand at the tow-line, or to help shove the sampan off a sand ridge,
she enters a playful demurrer; but an angry look, an angry word, or a cheerful suggestion of
"corporeal suasion," and she hops lightly into the water.

A few miles from No-foo-gong and a rocky precipice towers up on the west shore, something like
a thousand feet high. The crackling of fire-crackers innumerable and the report of larger and
noisier explosions attract my attention as we gradually crawl up toward it; and coming nearer,
flocks of pigeons are observed flying uneasily in and out of caves in the lower levels of the
cliff.

In the course of time our sampan arrives opposite and reveals a curious two-storied cave temple,
with many gayly dressed people, pleasure sampans, and bamboo rafts. This is the Kum-yam-ngan,
a Chinese Buddhist temple dedicated to the Goddess of Mercy. It is the home of flocks of sacred
pigeons, and the shrine to which many pilgrims yearly come; the pilgrims manage to keep their
feathered friends in a chronic state of trepidation by the agency of fire-crackers and miniature
bombs. Outside, under the shelter of the towering cliffs to the' right, are more temples or
dwellings of the priests; they present a curious mixture of blue porcelain, rock, and brick
which is intensely characteristic of China.

During the day we pass, on the same side of the river, yet another remarkable specimen of man's
handiwork on the scene of one of nature's curious rockwork conceptions. Leading from base to
summit of a sloping mountain are two perpendicular ridges of rock, looking very much like a
couple of walls. Across the summit of the mountain, from wall to wall, some fanciful architect
three hundred years ago built a massive battlement; in the middle he left a big round hole,
which presents a very curious appearance, and materially heightens the delusion that the whole
affair, from foot to summit, is the handiwork of man. This place is known as Tan-tsy-shan,
or Bullet Mountain, and is the scene of a fight that occurred some time during the Ming dynasty.
A legend is current among the people, that the robber Wong, a celebrated freebooter of that
period, while firing on a pursuing party of soldiers, shot this moon---like hole through the
mountain battlement with the huge musket he used to slaughter his enemies.

Many huge rafts of pine logs are now encountered floating down stream to the cities of the
lower country; numbers of them are sometimes met, following close behind one another. Several
huts are erected on each big raft, so that the sight not infrequently suggests a long straggling
village floating with the tide. This suggestion is very much heightened by the score or more
people engaged in poling, steering, al fresco cooking, etc., aboard each raft.

And anon there come along men, poling with surprising swiftness slender-built craft on which
are perched several solemn and important-looking cormorants. These are the celebrated cormorant
fishers of the Chinese rivers. Their craft is simply three or four stems of the giant bamboo
turned up at the forward end; on this the naked fisherman stands and propels himself by means
of a slender pole. His stock-in-trade consists of from four to eight cormorants that balance
themselves and smooth their wet wings as the lightsome raft speeds along at the rate of six
miles an hour from one fishing ground to another. Arriving at some likely spot the eager aspirant
for finny prizes rests on his oars, and allows his aquatic confederates to take to the water
in search of their natural prey, the fishes. A ring around the cormorants' necks prevents them
swallowing their captives, and previous training teaches them to balance themselves on the
propelling pole that the watchful fisherman inserts beneath them the moment they rise to the
surface with a fish; captive and captor are then lifted aboard the raft, the cormorant robbed
of his prey and hustled quickly off again to business. The sight of these nimble craft, skimming
along with scarcely an effort, almost fills me with a resolve to obtain one of them myself
and abandon Tung Po and his dreary lack of speed forever.

The third day of our voyage against the prevailing typhoons and the rapid current of the Pi-kiang,
comes to an end, and finds us again anchored within the dark shadow of a towering cliff. Anchored
alongside us is a big junk freighted with bags of rice and bales of paper; the hands aboard
this boat indulge in a lively quarrel, during the evening chow-chow, and bang one another about
in the liveliest manner. The peculiar indignation that finds expression in abusive language
no doubt reaches its highest state of perfection in the Celestial mind. No other human being
is capable of soaring to the height of the Chinaman's falsetto modulations, as he heaps reproaches
and cuss-words on his enemy's queue-adorned head. A big boat's crew of naked Chinamen cursing
and gesticulating excitedly, advancing and retreating, chasing one another about with billets
of wood, knocking things over, and raising Cain generally, in the ghostly glimmer of fantastic
paper lanterns, is a spectacle both weird and wild.

Another weird, but this time noiseless, affair is a long string of nocturnal cormorant fishers,
each with a big, flaming torch attached to the prow of his raft, propelling themselves along
close under the dark frowning cliff. The torches light up the black face of the precipice with
a wild glare, and streak the shimmering water with moon-like reflections.

The country through which our watery, serpentine course winds all next day, is hilly rather
than mountainous; grassy hills slope down to the water's blue ripples at certain places, but
the absence of grazing animals is quite remarkable. Regions, which in other countries would
be covered with flocks of sheep and herds of cows and horses, are without so much as a sign
of herbivorous animals. Pigs are the prevailing meat-producing animals of Southern China; all
the way up country I have not yet seen a single sheep, and but very few cattle; I have also
yet to see the first horse. Instead of herbivorous quadrupeds peacefully browsing, are swarms
of men, women, and children cutting, bundling, and stacking the grass for the manufacture of paper.

Among the fleeting curiosities of the day are a crowd of sampans flying black flags, evidently
some military expedition; they are bound down stream, and it occurs to me that they are perhaps
a reinforcement of these famous free-lances going to join the hordes of that denomination making
things so uncomfortable for the French in Tonquin and Quang-tse. We also pass a district where
the women enhance their physical charms by the aid of broad circular hats that resemble an
inverted sieve. The edges, however, are not wood, but circular curtains of black calico; the
roof of the hat is bleached bamboo chip.

Officers board us in the evening to search the vessel for dutiable goods; but they find nothing.
The privilege of levying customs on salt and opium is farmed out by the government to people
in various cities along the rivers. The tax on these articles from first to last of a long
river voyage is very heavy, customs being levied at various points; it is scarcely necessary
to add that under these arbitrary arrangements, the oily, conscienceless and tsin-loving Celestial
boatman has reduced the noble art of smuggling to a science. Yung Po smiles blandly at the
officer as he searches carefully every nook and corner of the sampan, even rooting about with
a stick in the moderate amount of bilge-water collected between the ribs, and when he is through,
dismisses him with an air of innocence and a wealth of politeness that is artfully calculated
to secure less rigorous search next time.

The poling and towing is prolonged till nearly midnight, when we cast anchor among a lot of
house-boats and miscellaneous craft before a city. Even at this unseemly hour we are visited
by an owlish pedler, whose boat is fitted up with boxes containing various dishes toothsome
to the heathen palates of the water-men. Yung Po and Ah Sum look wistfully over the ancient
pastry-ped-ler's wares, and pick out tiny dishes of sweetened rice gruel; this they consume
with the same unutterable satisfaction that hungry monkeys display when eating chestnuts, ending
the performance by licking the platters. Although the price is nearly a farthing a dish, with
wanton prodigality Yung Po orders dishes for the whole company, including even his passenger!

From various indications, it is surmised, as I seek my couch, that the city opposite is Chao-choo-foo.
Inquiry to that effect, as usual, elicits nothing but a bland grin from Yung Po. When, however,
he takes the unnecessary precaution of warning me not to venture outside the covered sleeping
quarters during the night, intimating that I should probably get stabbed if I do, I am pretty
well satisfied of our arrival. This cautious proceeding is to be explained by the fact that
I am Yung Po's debtor for two days' diet of rice, turnips, and flabby pork, and he is suspicious
that I might creep forth in the silence and darkness of the night and leave him in the lurch.

Yung Po now summons his entire pantomimic ability, to inform me that Chao-choo-foo is still
some distance up the river, at all events that is my interpretation of his words and gestures.
On this supposition I enter no objections when he bids me accompany him to the market and purchase
a new supply of provisions for the remainder of the journey.

Impatient to proceed to Chao-choo-foo I now motion for them to make a start. Yung Po points
to the frowning walls of the city we have just visited, and blandly says, "Chao-choo-foo."
Having accomplished his purpose of bamboozling me into replenishing his larder, by making me
believe our destination is yet farther upstream, he now turns round and tells me that we have
already arrived. The neat little advantage he has just been taking of my ignorance with such
brilliant results to the larder of the boat, has visibly stimulated his cupidity, and he now
brazenly demands the payment of filthy lucre, making a circular hole with his thumb and finger
to intimate big rounds in contradistinction to mere tsin.

The assumption of dense ignorance has not been without its advantages at various times on my
journey around the world, and regarding Yung Po's gestures with a blankety blank stare, I order
him to proceed up stream to Chao-choo-foo. The result of my refusal to be further bamboozled
by the wily Yung Po, without knowing something of what I am doing, is that I am shortly threading
the mazy alleyways of Chao-choo-foo with Ah Sum and Yung Po for escort. What the object of
this visit may be I haven't the remotest idea, unless we are proceeding to the quarters of
some official to have my passport seen to, or to try and enlighten my understanding in regard
to Yung Po's claims for battered Mexican dollars.

Vague apprehensions arise that, peradventure, the six dollars paid at Quang-shi was only a
small advance on the cost of my passage up, and that Yung Po is now piloting me to an official
to establish his just claims upon pretty much all the money I have with me. Ignorant of the
proper rate of boat-hire, disquieting visions of having to retreat to Canton for the lack of
money to pay the expenses of the journey through to Kui-kiang are flitting through my mind
as I follow the pendulous motions of Yung Po's pig-tail along the streets. The office that
I have been conjuring up in my mind is reached at last, and found to be a neat room provided
with forms and a pulpit like desk.

A pleasant-faced little Chinaman in a blue silk gown is examining a sheet of written characters
through the medium of a pair of tortoise-shell spectacles. On the wall I am agreeably astonished
to see a chromo of Her Majesty Queen Victoria, with an inscription in Chinese characters. The
little man chin-chins (salaams) heartily, removes his spectacles and addresses me in a musical
tone of voice. Yung Po explains obsequiously that my understanding Chinese is conspicuously
unequal to the occasion, a fact that at once becomes apparent to the man in blue silk; whereupon
he quickly substitutes written words for spoken ones and presents me the paper. Finding me
equally foggy in regard to these, he excuses my ignorance with a courteous smile and bow, and
summons a gray-queued underling to whom he gives certain directions. This person leads the
way out and motions for me to follow. Yung Po and Ah Sum bring up behind, keeping in order
such irrepressibles as endeavor to peer too obtrusively into my face.

Soon we arrive at a quarter with big monstrous dragons painted on the walls, and other indications
of an official residence; palanquin-bearers in red jackets and hats with tassels of red horse-hair
flit past at a fox-trot with a covered palanquin, preceded by noisy gong-beaters and a gayly
comparisoned pony. This is evidently the yamen or mandarin's quarter, and here we halt before
a door, while our guide enters another one, and disappears. The door before us is opened cautiously
by a Celestial who looks out and bestows upon mo a friendly smile. A curly black dog emerges
from between his legs and presents himself with much wagging of tail and other manifestations
of canine delight.

All this occurs to me as very strange; but not for a moment does it prepare me for the agreeable
surprise that now presents itself in the appearance of a young Englishman at the door. It would
be difficult to say which of us is the most surprised at the other's appearance. Mutual explanations
follow, and then I learn that, all unsuspected by me, two missionaries of the English Presbyterian
mission are stationed at Chao-choo.

At Canton I was told that I wouldn't see a European face nor hear an English word between that
city and Kui-kiang. On their part, they have read in English papers of my intended tour through
China, but never expected to see me coming through Chao-choo-foo.

I am, of course, overjoyed at the opportunity presented by their knowledge of the language
to arrange for the continuation of my journey in a manner to know something about what I am
doing. They are starting down the river for Canton to-morrow, so that I am very fortunate in
having arrived today. As their guest for the day I obtain an agreeable change of diet from
the swashy preparations aboard the sampan, and learn much valuable information about the nature
of the country ahead from their servants. They have never been higher up the river than Chao-choo-foo
themselves, and rather surprise me by giving the distances to Canton as two hundred and eighty
miles.

By their kind offices I am able to make arrangements for a couple of coolies to carry the bicycle
over the Mae-ling Mountains as far as the city of Nam-ngan on the head waters of the Kan-kiang,
whence, if necessary, I can descend into the Yang-tsi-kiangby river. The route leads through
a mountainous country up to the Mae-ling Pass, thence down to the head waters of the Kan-kiang.

All is ready by eight o'clock on the morning of October 22d; the coolies have lashed the bicycle
to parallel bamboo poles, as also a tin of lunch biscuits, a tin of salmon, and of corned beef,
articles kindly presented by the missionaries.

Nam-ngan is said to be two hundred miles distant, but subsequent experience would lessen the
distance by about fifty miles. Our way leads first through the cemeteries of Chao-choo-foo,
and along little winding stone-ways through the fields leading, in a general sense, along the
right bank of the Pi-kiang.

The villagers in the upper districts of Quang-tung are peculiarly wanting in facial attractiveness;
in some of the villages on the Upper Pi-kiang the entire population, from puling infants to
decrepit old stagers whose hoary cues are real pig-tails in respect to size, are hideously
ugly. They seem to be simple, primitive people, bent on satisfying their curiosity; but in
the pursuit of this they are, if anything, somewhat more considerate or more conservative than
the Persians.

Mothers hurry home and fetch their babies to see the Fankwae, pointing me out to their notice,
very much like pointing out a chimpanzee in the Zoological gardens. In these village inns the
spirit of democracy embraces all living things; sore-eyed coolies, leprous hangers-on to the
thread of life, matronly sows and mangy dogs, come, go, and freely mingle and associate in
these filthy little kitchens. When cooking is in progress, nothing is set off the fire on to
the ground but that a hungry pig stands and eyes it wistfully, but sundry burnings of their
sensitive snouts during the days of their youthful inexperience have made them preternaturally
cautious, so that they are not very meddlesome. The sleeping room is really a part of the pig-sty,
nothing but an open railing separating pigs and people. A cobble-stone path now leads through
a hilly country, divided up into little rice-fields, peanut gardens, pine copses, and cemeteries.
Peanut stalls one encounters at short intervals, where ancient dames or wrinkled old men preside
over little saucers of half-roasted nuts, peanut sweet cakes, peanut plain cakes, peanut crullers,
peanut dough, peanut candy, peanuts sprinkled with sugar, peanuts sprinkled with salt, and
peanuts fresh from the ground. The people seem to be well-nigh living on peanuts, which unhappy
diet probably has something to do with their marvellous ugliness.

In a gathering of villagers standing about me are people with eyes that are pitched at the
most peculiar angles, varying from long, narrow eyes that slope downward toward the cheek-bone,
to others that seem almost perpendicular. No less astonishing is the contour of their mouths;
ragged holes in their ugly faces are these for the most part, shapeless and uncouth as anything
well could be. They are the most unprepossessing humans I have seen the whole world round.

As, on the evening of the third day from Chao-choo-foo, we approach Nam-hung, the people and
the country undergo a great change for the better. The land is more level and better cultivated;
villages are thicker and more populous, and the people are no longer conspicuously ill-favored.
All evidence goes to prove that meagre diet and hard lines generally, continued from generation
to generation, result in the production of an ill-conditioned and inferior race of people.

A three-storied pagoda on a prominent hill to the right marks the approach to Nam-hung, and
another of nine stories marks the entrance. Swarms of people follow us through the streets,
rushing with eager curiosity to obtain a glimpse of my face. Sometimes the surging masses of
people, struggling and pushing and dodging, separate me from the coolies, and the din of the
shouting and laughing is so great that my shouts to them to stop are unheard. A shout, or a
wave of the hand results only in a quickening of the people's curiosity and an increase in
the volume of their own noisiness. Thus hemmed in among a compact mass of apparently well-meaning,
but highly inflammable Chinese, hooting, calling, laughing, and gesticulating, I follow the
lead of Ching-We and Wong-Yup through a mile of streets to the hittim.

Rich native wares are displayed in great abundance, silks, satins, and fur-lined clothing so
costly and luxurious, and in such numbers, that one wonders where they find purchasers for
them all. Side by side with these are idol factories, where Joss may be seen in every stage
of existence, from the unhewn log of his first estate to the proud pre-eminence of his highly
finished condition, painted, gilded, and furbished. Coffin warehouses in which burial cases
are displayed in tempting array are always conspicuous in a Chinese city. The coffins are made
of curious slabs, jointed together in imitation of a solid log; some of these are varnished
in a style calculated to make the eyes of a prospective corpse beam with joyous anticipation;
others are plainly finished, destined for the abode of humbler and less pretentious remains.

At the hittim, with much angry expostulation and firmness of decision, the following mob are
barred entrance to our room. They are not, by any means satisfied, however; they quickly smash
in a little closed panel so they can look in, and every crack between the boards betrays a
row of peering eyes. Ching-We is a hollow-eyed victim of the drug, and yearns for peace and
quiet so that he can pass away the evening amid the seductive pleasures of the opium-smoker's
heaven. The rattle and racket of the determined sight-seers outside, clamorously demanding
to come in and see the Fankwae, annoy him to the verge of desperation under the circumstances.

He patiently endeavors to forget it all, however, and to banish the whole troublesome world
from his thoughts, by producing his opium-pipe and lamp and attempting to smoke. But just as
he is getting comfortably settled down to rolling the little knob of opium on the needle and
has puckered his lips for a good pull, a decayed turnip comes sailing through the open panel
and hits him on the back. The people looking in add insult to injury by indulging in an audible
snicker, as Ching-We springs up and glares savagely into their faces. This indiscreet expression
of their levity at once seals their doom, for Ching-We grabs a pole and hits the boards such
a resounding whack, and advances upon them so savagely, that only a few undaunted youngsters
remain at their post; the panel is repaired, and comparative peace and quiet restored for a
short time. No sooner, however, has Ching-We mounted to the first story of heavenly beatitude
from the effects of the first pipe of opium, than loud howls of "Fankwae. Fankwae!" are heard
outside, and a shower of stones comes rattling against the boards. Ching-We goes to the partition
door and indulges in an angry and reproachful attack upon the unoffending head of the establishment.
The unoffending head of the establishment goes immediately to the other door and indulges in
an angry and reproachful attack upon the shouters and stone-throwers outside. The Chinese are
peculiar in many things, and in nothing, perhaps, more than their respect for words of reproach.
Whether the long-suffering innkeeper hurled at their heads one of the moral maxims of Confucius,
or an original production of his own brain, is outside the pale of my comprehension; but whatever
it is, there is no more disturbance outside.

It must be about midnight when I am awakened from a deep sleep by the gabble of many people
in the room. Transparent lanterns adorned with big red characters held close to my face cause
me to blink like a cat upon opening my wondering eyes. These lanterns are held by yameni-runners
in semi-military garb, to light up my features for the inspection of an officer wearing a rakish
Tartar hat with a brass button and a red horse-hair tassel. The yameni-runners wear the same
general style of head-dress, but with a loop instead of the brass button. The officer is possessed
of a wonderfully soft, musical voice, and holds forth at great length concerning me, with Ching-We.

The officer takes my passport to the yamen, and ere leaving the room, pantomimically advises
me to go to sleep again. In the morning Ching-We returns the two-foot square document with
the Viceregal seal, and winks mysteriously to signify that everything is lovely, and that the
goose of permission to go ahead to Nam-ngan hangs auspiciously high.

The morning opens up cool and cloudy, the pebble pathway is wider and better than yesterday,
for it is now the thoroughfare along which thousands of coolies stagger daily with heavy loads
of merchandise to the commencement of river navigation at Nam-hung. The district is populous
and productive; bales of paper, bags of rice and peanuts, bales of tobacco, bamboo ware, and
all sorts of things are conveyed by muscular coolies to Nam-hung to be sent down the river.

Gradually have we been ascending since leaving Nam-hung, and now is presented the astonishing
spectacle of a broad flight of stone steps, certainly not less than a mile in length, leading
up, up, up, to the summit of the Mae-ling Pass. Up and down this wonderful stairway hundreds
of coolies are toiling with their burdens, scores of travellers in holiday attire and several
palanquins bearing persons of wealth or official station. The stairway winds and zigzags up
the narrow defile, averaging in width about twenty feet. Refreshment houses are perched here
and there along the side, sometimes forming a bridge over the steps.

The stairway terminates at the summit in a broad stone archway of ancient build, over which
are several rooms; this is evidently an office for the collection of revenue from the merchandise
carried over the pass. Standing beneath this arch one obtains a comprehensive view of the country
below to the north; a pretty picture is presented of gabled villages and temples, green hills,
and pale-gold ripening rice-fields. The little silvery contributaries of the Kan-kiang ramify
the picture like veins in the human palm, and the brown, cobbled pathways are seen leading
from village to village, disappearing from view at short intervals beneath a cluster of tiled
houses.

Steeper but somewhat shorter steps lead down from the pass, and the pathway follows along the
bank of a tiny stream, leading through an almost continuous string of villages to the walls
of Nam-ngan.

CHAPTER XVIII.

DOWN THE KAN-KIANG VALLEY.

The country is still nothing but river and mountains, and a sampan is engaged to float me down
the Kan-kiang as far as Kan-tchou-foo, from whence I hope to be able to resume my journey a-wheel.
The water is very low in the upper reaches of the river, and the sampan has to be abandoned
a few miles from where it started. I then get two of the boatmen to carry the wheel, intending
to employ them as far as Kan-tchou-foo.

From the stories current at Canton, the reputation of Kan-tchou-foo is rather calculated to
inspire a lone Fankwae with sundry misgivings. Some time ago an English traveller, named Cameron,
had in that city an unpleasantly narrow escape from being burned alive. The Celestials conceived
the diabolical notion of wrapping him in cotton, saturating him with peanut-oil, and setting
him on fire. The authorities rescued him not a moment too soon.

Ere traversing many miles of mountain-paths we emerge upon a partially cultivated country,
where the travelling is somewhat better than in Quang-tung. The Mae-ling Pass was the boundary
line between the provinces of Quang-tung and Kiang-se; my journey from Nam-ngan will lead me
through the whole length of the latter great province, between three hundred and four hundred
miles north and south.

The paths hereabout are of dirt mostly, and although wretched roads for a wheelman in the abstract,
are nevertheless admirable in comparison with the stone-ways of Quang-tung. Gratified at the
prospect of being able to proceed to Kui-kiang by land after all, I determine at once that,
if the country gets no worse by to-morrow, I will dismiss the boatmen and pursue my way alone
again on the bicycle. This resolve very quickly develops into an earnest determination to rid
myself of the incubus of the snail-like movements of my new carriers, who are decidedly out
of their element when walking, as I am very quickly brought to understand by the annoying frequency
of their halts at way-side tea-houses to rest and smoke and eat.

Ere we are five miles from the sampan these festive mariners of the Kan-kiang have developed
into shuffling, shirking gormandizers, who peer longingly into every eating-house we pass by
and evince a decided tendency to convert their task into a picnic. Finding me uncomplaining
in footing their respective "bills of lading" at the frequent places where they rest and indulge
their appetites for tid-bits, they advance, in the brief space of four hours, from a simple
diet of peanuts and bubbles of greasy pastry to such epicurean dishes as pickled duck, salted
eggs, and fricasseed kitten!

Fricasseed kitten is all very well for people who have been reared in the lap of luxury, and
tenderly nurtured; but neither of these half-clad Kan-kiang navigators was born with the traditional
silver spoon. From infancy they have had to thrive the best way they could on rice, turnip-tops,
peanuts, and delusive expectations of pork and fish; their assumption of the delicacies above
mentioned betrays the possession of bumps of assurance bigger than goose-eggs. It is equivalent
to a moneyless New York guttersnipe sailing airily into Delmonico's and ordering porter-house
steak and terrapin, because some benevolent person volunteered to feed him for a day or two
at his expense. Fearful lest their ambitious palates should soar into the extravagant and bankrupting
realms of bird-nest soup, shark's fins, and deer-horn jelly, I firmly resolve to dispense with
their services at the first favorable opportunity.

Many of the larger villages we pass through are walled with enormously massive brick walls,
all bearing evidence of battering at the hands of the Tai-pings. Owing to the frequent restings
of the carriers we are overtaken toward evening by a fellow boat-passenger, Oolong, who after
our departure determined to follow our enterprising example and walk to Kan-tchou-foo. He comes
trudging briskly along with a little white tea-pot swinging in his hand and an umbrella under
his arm.

The day is disagreeably cold by reason of the chilly typhoons that blow steadily from the north.
I have considerately encased the thinnest clad carrier in my gossamer rubbers to shield him
from the wind, but Oolong is even thinner clad than he, and he has to hustle along briskly
to keep his Celestial blood in circulation.

No sooner do we reach the hittim where it is proposed to remain over night than poor Oolong
gets into trouble by appropriating to his own use the quilted garment of one of the employes
of the place, which he finds lying around loose. The irate owner of the garment loudly accuses
Oolong of wanting to steal it, and notwithstanding his vigorous protestations to the contrary
he is denounced as a thief and summarily ejected from the premises.

The last I ever see of Oolong and his white tea-pot and umbrella is when he pauses for a moment
to give his accusers a bit of his mind before vanishing into outer darkness.

The morning is quite wintry, and the people are clad in the seasonable costumes of the country.
Huge quilted garments are put on one over another until their figures are almost of ball-like
rotundity; the hands are drawn up entirely out of sight in the long, loosely flowing sleeves,
while the head is half-hidden by being drawn, turtle-like, into their blue-quilted shells.
Like the Persians, they seem nipped and miserable in the cold; looking at them, standing about
with humped backs and pinched faces this morning, I wonder, with the Chinaman's happy nonchalance
about committing suicide, why they don't all seek relief within the nice warm tombs at the
end of the village. Surely it can be nothing but their rampant curiosity, urging them to live
on and on in the hopes of seeing something new and novel, that keeps them from collapsing entirely
in the winter.

My epicurean carriers indulge largely in chopped cayenne peppers this morning, which they mis
liberally with their food.

The paths at least get no worse than they were yesterday, and to-day I meet the first passenger-wheelbarrow,
with its big wheel in the centre, a bulky female with a baby on one side, and a bale of merchandise
on the other. Sometimes our road brings us to the banks of the Kan-kiang, and most of the time,
even when a mile or two away, we can see the queer, corrugated sails of the sampans.

Once to-day we happen upon a fleet of fourteen cormorant fishers at a moment when the excitement
of their pursuit is at its height. About seventy or eighty cormorants are diving and chasing
about among a shoal of fish in a big silent pool, while fourteen wildly excited Chinamen, clad
in abbreviated breech-cloths, dart their bamboo rafts about hither and thither, urging each
one his own cormorants to dive by tapping them smartly with their poles. The scene is animated
in the extreme, a unique picture of Chinese river-life not to be easily forgotten.

About two o'clock in the afternoon we arrive at a city that I flatter myself is Kan-tchou-foo;
all attempts to question the carriers or anybody else in regard to the matter results in the
hopeless bewilderment of both them and myself. The carriers are not such ignoramuses in the
art of pantomime, however, but that they are able to announce their intention of stopping here
for the remainder of the day, and night.

The liberality of my purse for a short day and a half, with its concomitant luxurious living,
has so thoroughly demoralized the unaccustomed river-men, that they encroach still further
upon my bounty and forbearance by revelling all night in the sensuous delights of opium, at
my expense, and turning up in the morning in anything but fit condition for the road. Putting
this and that together, I conclude that we have not yet readied Kan-tchou-foo; but the carriers
have developed into an insufferable nuisance, a hinderance to progress, rather than a help,
so I determine to take them no farther.

I tell them nothing of my intentions until we reach a lonely spot a mile from the city. Here
I tender them suitable payment for their services and the customary present, attach my loose
effects to the bicycle and about my person, and motion them to return. As I anticipated, they
make a clamorous demand for more money, even seizing hold of the bicycle and shouting angrily
in my face. This I had easily foreseen, and wisely preferred to have their angry demonstrations
all to myself, rather than in a crowded city where they could perhaps have excited the mob
against me.

For the first time in China I have to appeal to my Smith & Wesson in the interests of peace;
without its terrifying possession I should on this occasion undoubtedly have been under the
necessity of "wiping up a small section of Kiang-se" with these two worthies in self defence.
In the affairs of individuals, as of nations, it sometimes operates to the preservation of
peace to be well prepared for war. How many times has this been the case with myself on this
journey around the world!

The barometer of satisfaction at the prospect of reaching Kui-kiang before the appearance of
old age rises from zero-level to a quite flattering height, as I find the pathways more than
half ridable after delivering myself of the dead weight of native "assistance." Twelve miles
farther and I am approaching the grim high walls of a large city that instinctively impresses
me as being Kan-tchou-foo. The confused babel of noises within the teeming wall-encompassed
city reaches my ears in the form of an "ominous buzz," highly suggestive of a hive of bees,
into the interior of which it would be extremely ticklish work for a Fankwae to enter. "Half
an hour hence," I mentally speculate, "the pitying angels may be weeping over the spectacle
of my seal-brown roasted remains being dragged about the streets by the ribald and exultant
rag, tag, and bobtail of Kan-tchou-foo."

Reflecting on the horrors of cotton, peanut-oil, and fire, I sit down for half an hour at a
peanut-seller's stall, eat peanuts, and meditatively argue the situation of whether it would
be better, if seized by a murderous mob, to take the desperate chances of being, like Cameron,
rescued at the last minute from the horrors of incineration, or to take my own life. Fourteen
cartridges and a 38 Smith & Wesson is the sum total of my armament. Emptying my revolver among
the mob, and then being caught while reloading, would mean a lingering death by the most diabolical
tortures, processes that the heathen Chinee has reduced to a refinement of cruelty unsurpassed
in the old Spanish inquisition chambers.

The saucer of peanuts eaten, I pursue my way along the cobblestone path leading to the gate,
without having come to any more definite conclusion than to keep cool and govern my actions
according to circumstances. Ten minutes after taking this precaution I am trundling along a
paved street, somewhat wider than the average Chinese city street, in the thick of the inevitable
excited crowd.

The city probably contains two hundred thousand people, judging from the length of this street
and the wonderful quantity and richness of the goods displayed in the shops. Along this street
I see a more lavish display of rich silks, furs, tiger-skins, and other evidences of opulence
than was shown me at Canton. The pressure of the crowds reduces me at once to the necessity
of drifting helplessly along, whithersoever the seething human tide may lead. Sometimes I fancy
the few officiously interested persons about me, whom I endeavor to question in regard to the
hoped-for Jesuit mission, have interpreted my queries aright and are piloting me thither; only
to conclude by their actions, the next minute, that they have not the remotest conception of
my wants, beyond reaching the other side of the city. Now and then some ruffian in the crowd,
in a spirit of wanton devilment, utters a wild, exultant whoop and raises the cry of "Fankwae.
Fankwae." The cry is taken up by others of his kind, and the whoops and shouts of "Fankwae"
swell into a tumultuous howl.

Anxious moments these; the spirit of wanton mischief fairly bristles through the crowd, evidently
needing but the merest friction to set it ablaze and render my situation desperate. My coat-tail
is jerked, the bicycle stopped, my helmet knocked off, and other trifling indignities offered;
but to these acts I take no exceptions, merely placing my helmet on again when it is knocked
off, and maintaining a calm serenity of face and demeanor.

A dozen times during this trying trundle of a mile along the chief business thoroughfare of
Kan-tchou-foo, the swelling whoops and yells of "Fankwae" seem to portend the immediate bursting
of the anticipated storm, and a dozen times I breathe easier at the subsidence of its volume.
The while I am still hoping faintly for a repetition in part of my delightful surprise at Chao-choo-foo,
we arrive at a gate leading out on to a broad paved quay of the Kan-kiang, which flows close
by the walls.

Here I first realize the presence of Imperial troops, and awaken to the probability that I
am indebted to their known proximity for the self-restraint of the mob, and their comparatively
mild behavior. These Celestial warriors would make excellent characters on the spectacular
stage; their uniforms are such marvels of color and pattern that it is difficult to disassociate
them from things theatrical. Some are uniformed in sky blue, and others in the gayest of scarlet
gowns, blue aprons with little green pockets, and blue turbans or Tartar hats with red tassels.
Their gowns and aprons are patterned so as to spread out to a ridiculous width at bottom, imparting
to the gay warrior an appearance not unlike an opened fan, his head constituting the handle.

As a matter of fact, the soldiers of the Imperial army are the biggest dandies in the country;
when on the march coolies are provided to carry their muskets and accoutrements. As seen today,
beneath the walls of Kan-tchou-foo, they impress me far more favorably as dandies than as soldiers
equal to the demand of modern warfare.

Like soldiers the whole world round, however, they seem to be a good-natured, superior class
of men; no sooner does my presence become known than several of them interest themselves in
checking the aggressive crowding of the people about me. Some of them even accompany me down
to the ferry and order the ancient ferryman to take me across for nothing. This worthy individual,
however, enters such a wordy protestation against this that I hand him a whole handful of the
picayunish tsin. The soldiers make him give me back the over-payment, to the last tsin. The
sordid money-making methods of the commercial world seem to be regarded with more or less contempt
by the gallant sons of Mars everywhere, not excepting even the soldiers of the Chinese army.

The scene presented by the city and the camp from across the river is of a most pronounced
mediaeval character, as well as one of the prettiest sights imaginable. The grim walla of the
city extend for nearly a mile along the undulating bank of the Kan-kiang, with a narrow strip
of greensward between the solid gray battlements and the blue, wind-rippled waters of the river.
Along the whole distance, rising and falling with the undulations of the bank, are ranged a
continuous row of gayly fluttering banners-red, purple, blue, green, yellow, and all these
colors combined in others that are striped as prettily as the prettiest of barber-poles-probably
not less than five hundred flags. These multitudinous banners flutter from long, spear-headed
bamboo-staves, and of themselves present a wonderfully pretty effect in combination with the
blue waters, the verdant bank, and the gray walls. But in addition to these are thousands of
soldiers, equally gaudy as to raiment, reclining irregularly along the same greensward, each
warrior a bright bit of coloring on the verdant groundwork of the bank.

Over variable paths and through numerous villages and hamlets my way now leads, my next objective
point being Ki-ngan-foo. At first a country of curious red buttes, terraced rice-fields, and
reservoirs of mountain-drift water, serving the double purpose of fish-ponds and irrigating
reservoirs, it develops later into a more mountainous region, where the bicycle quickly degenerates
into a thing more ornamental than useful.

On a narrow mountain-trail is met a gentleman astride of a chunky twelve-hand pony. This diminutive
steed is almost concealed beneath a wealth of gay trappings, to which are attached hundreds
of jingling bells that fill the air with music as he walks or jogs along. In his fright at
the bicycle, or me, he charges wildly up the steep mountain-slope, unseating his rider and
making for the mountain-top like the all-possessed. His rider takes the sensible course of
immediately pursuing the pony, instead of wasting time in unprofitable fault-finding with me.

Few people of these obscure mountain-hamlets have ever seen a Fankwae; many, doubtless, have
never even heard of the existence of such queer beings. They gather in a crowd about me when
I stay to seek refreshments; the general query of "What is he? what is he?" passed from one
to another, sometimes elicits the laconically expressed information of" Fankwae" from some
knowing villager or traveller passing through, but often their question remains unanswered,
because among the whole assembly there is nobody who really knows what I am.

The wonderful industry of these people is more apparent in this mountain-country than anywhere
else. The valleys are very narrow, often little more than mere ravines between the mountains,
and wherever a square yard of productive soil is to be found it is cultivated to its utmost
capacity. In places the mountain-ravines are terraced, to their very topmost limits, tier after
tier of substantial rock wall banking up a few square yards of soil that have been gathered
with infinite labor and patience from the ledges and crevices of the rocky hills. The uppermost
terrace is usually a pond of water, gathered by the artificial drainage of still higher levels,
and reserved for the irrigation of the score or more descending "steps" of the rice-growing
stairway beneath it.

Notwithstanding the mountainous nature of the country and the dallying progress through Kan-tchou-foo,
so lightsome does it seem to be once more journeying along, free and unencumbered, that I judge
my day's progress to be not less than fifty miles when nightfall overtakes me in a little mountain-village.
It is the first day's progress in China with which I have been really satisfied. Nevertheless,
it has been a toilsome day, taken altogether, and when nothing but tea and rice confronts me
at supper the reward seems so wretchedly inadequate that I rise in rebellion at once.

Neither eggs, fish, nor meat are to be obtained, the good woman at the little hittim explains
in a high key; neither loan, ue, nor ue-ah, nothing but ch'ung-ch'a and mai. The woman is evidently
a dear, considerate mortal, however, for she surveys my evident disgust with sorrowful visage,
and then, suddenly brightening up, motions for me to be seated and leaves the house. Presently
the good dame returns with a smile of triumph on her face and an object in her hand that, from
casual observation, might be the hind-quarters of a rabbit. Bringing it to me in the most matter-of-fact
manner, she holds it near my face and, pointing to it with the air of a cateress proudly conscious
of having secured something that she knows will be unusually acceptable to her guest, she explains
"me-aow, me-aow!" The woman's naivete is simply sublime, and her sagacity in explaining the
nature of the meat by imitating a kitten's cry instead of telling me its Chinese name stamps
her as superior to her surroundings; but, for all that, I conclude to draw the line at kitten
and sup off plain rice and tea. "Me-aow, me-aow" might not be altogether objectionable if one
knew it to have been a nice healthy kitten, but my observations of Chinese unsqueamishness
about the food they eat leaves an abundance of room for doubt about the nature of its death
and its suitableness for human consumption. I therefore resist the temptation to indulge.

A clear morning and a white frost usher in the commencement of another march across the mountains,
over cobbled paths for the greater part of the forenoon. The sun is warm, but the mountain-breezes
are cool and refreshing. About noon I ferry across a large tributary of the Kan-kiang, and
follow for miles a cobble-stone path that leads down its eastern bank.

According to my map, Ki-ngan-foo should be about fifty miles south of Kan-tchou-foo, so that
I ought to have reached there by noon to-day. All due allowance, however, must be made for
the map-makers in mapping out a country where their opportunities for accuracy must have been
of the meagerest kind. Small occasion for fault-finding under the circumstances, I think, for
in the middle of the afternoon the gray battlements, the pagodas, and the bright coloring of
military flags a few miles farther down stream tell me that the geographers have not erred
to any considerable extent.

It is about sunset when I enter the gates and find myself within the Manchu quarter, that portion
of the city walled off for the residence of the Manchu garrison and their families. The hittim
to which the quickly gathering crowd conduct me is found to be occupied by a rather prepossessing
female, who, however, looks frightened at my approach and shuts the door. Nor will she consent
to open it again until reassured of my peaceful character by the lengthy explanation of the
people outside, and a searching scrutiny of my person through a crack. After opening the door
again, and receiving what I opine to be a statement of the financial possibilities of the situation
from some person who has heard fabulous accounts of the Fankwaes' liberality, her apprehensiveness
dissolves into a smile of welcome and she motions for me to come in.

The evening is chilly, and everybody is swollen out to ridiculous proportions by the numerous
thick-quilted garments they are wearing. All present, whether male or female, are likewise
distinguished by abnormally protruding stomachs. Being Manchus, and therefore the accredited
warriors of the country, it occurs to ine that perhaps the fashionable fad among them is to
pad out their stomachs in token of the possession of extraordinary courage, the stomach being
regarded by the Chinese as the seat of both courage and intelligence. In the absence of large
stomachs provided by nature, perhaps these proud Manchus come to the correction of niggardly
nature with wadding, as do various hollow-chested people in the "regions of mist and snow,"
the dreary, sunless land whence cometh the genus Fankwae.

But are the females also ambitious to be regarded as warriors, Amazonian soldiers, full of
courage and warlike aspirations. As though in direct reply to my mental queries, a woman standing
by solves the problem for me at once by producing from beneath her garments a wicker-basket
containing a jar of hot ashes; stirring the deadened coals up a little she replaces it, evidently
attaching it to her garments underneath by a little hook.

Among the hundreds of visitors that drop in to see the Fankwae and his bicycle is an intelligent
old officer who actually knows that the great country of the Fankwaes is divided into different
nationalities; either that, or else he thinks the Fankwaes have another name, said name being
"Ying-yun" (English). Some idea of the dense ignorance of the Chinese of the interior concerning
the rest of the world may be gathered from the fact that this officer is the first person since
leaving Chao-choo-foo, upon whom the word "Ying-yun" has not been wholly thrown away.

Scenes of more than democratic equality and fraternity are witnessed in this Manchu hittim,
where silk-robed mandarins and uncouth ragamuffins stand side by side and enjoy the luxury
of seeing me take lessons in the use of the chop-sticks. All through China one cannot fail
to be impressed with the freedom of intercourse between people of high and low degree; beggars
with unwashed faces and disgusting sores and well-nigh naked bodies stand and discuss my appearance
and movements with mandarins of high degree, without the least show of presumption on the one
hand or condescension on the other.

Fully under the impression that Ki-ngan-foo has now peacefully come and peacefully gone from
the pale of my experiences, I follow along awful stone paths next morning, leading across a
level, cultivated country for several miles. Before long, however, a country of red clay hills
and limited cultivable depressions is reached, where well-worn foot-trails over the natural
soil afford more or less excellent going. In this particular district the women are observed
to be all golden lilies, whereas the proportion of deformed feet in other rural districts has
been rather small. Seeing that deformed feet add fifty or a hundred per cent, to the social
and matrimonial value of a Chinese female, one cannot help applauding the enterprise of the
people in this district as compared to the apathy existing on the same subject in some others.
The comparative poverty of their clayey undulations has doubtless awakened them to the opportunities
of increasing values in other directions. Hence they convert all their female infants into
golden lilies, for whom some prospective husband will be willing to pay a hundred dollars more
than if they were possessed of vulgar extremities as provided by nature.

The people hereabout seem unusually timid and alarmed at my strange appearance; it is both
laughable and painful to see the women hobble off across the fields, frightened almost out
of their wits. At times I can look about me and, within a radius of five hundred yards, see
twenty or thirty females, all with deformed feet, scuttling off toward the villages with painful
efforts at speed. One might well imagine them to be a colony of crippled rabbits, alarmed at
the approach of a dog, endeavoring to hobble away from his destructive presence.

In the villages they seem equally apprehensive of danger, making it somewhat difficult to obtain
anything to eat. At one village where I halt for refreshments the people scurry hastily into
their houses at seeing me coming, and peep timidly out again after I have passed. Leaning the
bicycle against a wall, I proceed in search of something to eat. A basket of oranges first
attracts my attention; they are setting just inside the door of a little shop. The two women
in charge look scared nearly out of their wits as I appear at the door and point to the basket;
both of them retreat pell-mell into a rear apartment, and, holding the door ajar, peep curiously
through to see what I am going to do. While my attention is directed for a moment to something
down the street, one daring soul darts out and bears the basket of oranges triumphantly into
the back room. For this heroic deed I beg to recommend this brave woman for the Victoria Cross;
among the golden lilies of the Celestial Empire are no doubt many such brave souls, coequal
with Grace Darling or the Maid of Saragossa.

Baffled and out-generaled by this brilliant sortie, I meander down to the other end of the
village and invade the premises of an old man engaged in chopping up a piece of pork with a
cleaver. The gallant pork-butcher gathers up the choicest parts of his meat and carries them
into a rear room; with a wary yet determined look in his eye he then returns, and proceeds
to mince up the few remaining odds and ends. It is plainly evident that he fancies himself
in dangerous company, and is prepared to defend himself desperately with his meat-chopper in
case he gets cornered up.

Finally I discover a really courageous individual, in the person of a man presiding over a
peanut and treacle-cake establishment; this man, while evidently uneasy in his mind, manfully
steels his nerves to the task of attending to my wants. Presently the people begin to gather
at a respectful distance to watch me eat, and five minutes later, by a judicious distribution
of a few saucers of peanuts among the youngsters, I gain their entire confidence.

About four o'clock in the afternoon my road once again brings me to a ferry across the Kan-kiang.
Just previous to reaching the river, I meet on the road eight men, carrying a sedan containing
a hideous black idol about twice as large as a man. A mile back from the ferry is another large
walled city with a magnificent pagoda; this city I fondly imagine to be Lin-kiang, next on
my map and itinerary to Ki-ngan-foo, and I mentally congratulate myself on the excellent time
I have been making for the last two days.

Across the ferry are several official sampans with a number of boys gayly dressed in red and
carrying old battle-axes; also a small squad of soldiers with bows and arrows. No sooner does
the ferryman land me than the officer in charge of the party, with a wave of his hand in my
direction, orders a couple of soldiers to conduct me into the city; his order is given in an
off-hand manner peculiarly Chinese, as though I were a mere unimportant cipher in the matter,
whose wishes it really was not worth while to consult. The soldiers conduct me to the city
and into the yamen or official quarter, where I am greeted with extreme courtesy by a pleasant
little officer in cloth top-boots and a pigtail that touches his heels. He is one of the nicest
little fellows I have met in China, all smiles and bustling politeness and condescension; a
trifle too much of the latter, perhaps, were we at all on an equality; but quite excusable
under the conditions of Celestial refinement and civilization on one side, and untutored barbarism
on the other.

Having duly copied my passport (apropos of the Chinese doing almost everything in a precisely
opposite way to ourselves may be pointed out the fact that, instead of attaching vises to the
traveller's passport, like European nations, each official copies off the entire document),
the little officer with much bowing and scraping leads the way back to the ferry. My explanation
that I am bound in the other direction elicits sundry additional bobbings of the head and soothing
utterances and smiles, but he points reassuringly to the ferry. Arriving at the river, the
little officer is dumbfounded to discover that I have no sampan--that I am not travelling by
boat, but overland on the bicycle. Such a possibility had never entered his head; nor is it
wonderful that it should not, considering the likelihood that nobody, in all his experience,
had ever travelled to Kui-kiang from here except by boat. Least of all would he imagine that
a stray Fankwae should be travelling otherwise.

At the ferry we meet the officer who first ordered the soldiers to take me in charge, and who
now accompanies us back to the yamen. Evidently desirous of unfathoming the mystery of my incomprehensible
mode of travelling through the country, these two officers spend much of the evening with me
in the hittim smoking and keeping up an animated effort to converse. Notwithstanding my viceregal
passport, the superior officer very plainly entertains suspicions as to my motives in undertaking
this journey; his superficial politeness no more conceals his suspicions than a glass globe
conceals a fish. Before they take their departure three yameni-runners are stationed in my
room to assume the responsibility for my safe-keeping during the night.

An hour or so is spent waiting in the yamen next morning, apparently for the gratification
of visitors continually arriving. When the yamen is crowded with people I am provided with
a boiled fish and a pair of chop-sticks. Witnessing the consumption of this fish by the Fankwae
is the finale of the "exhibition," and candor compels me to chronicle the fact that it fairly
brings down the house.

It is a drizzly, disagreeable morning as I trundle out of the city gate over cobble-stones,
made slippery by the rain. Walking before me is a slim young yameni-runner with a short bamboo-spear,
and on his back a white bull's-eye eighteen inches in diameter; he is bare-footed and bare-headed
and bare-legged. In the poverty of his apparel, the all-round contempt of personal appearance
and cleanliness, and the total absence of individual ambition, this young person reminds me
forcibly of our happy-go-lucky friend Osman, in the garden at Herat.

In striking contrast to him is the dandified individual who brings up the rear, about ten paces
behind the bicycle. He likewise is a yameni-runner, but of higher degree than his compatriot
of the advance; instead of a vulgar and rusty spear, he is armed with an oiled paper parasol,
a flaming red article ornamented with blue characters and gilt women. Besides this gay mark
of distinction and social superiority, he owns both shoes and hat, carrying the former, however,
chiefly in his hand; when fairly away from town, he deliberately turns his red-braided jacket
inside out to prevent it getting dirty. This transformation brings about a change from the
two white bull's-eyes, to big rings of stitching by which these distinguishing appendages are
attached.

A substantial meal of yams and pork is obtained at a way-side eating-house, after which yet
another evidence of the sybaritic tastes of the rear-guard comes to light, in the form of a
beautiful jade-stone opium pipe, with which he regales himself after chow-chow. He is, withal,
possessed of more than average intelligence; it is from questioning him that I learn the rather
startling fact that, instead of having reached Lin-kiang, I have not yet even come to Ki-ngan-foo.
Ta-ho is the name of the city we have just left, and Ki-ngan-foo is whither we are now directly
bound.

The weather at noon becomes warm, and the luxurious personage at the rear delivers his parasol,
and shoes, and jade-stone pipe over to the slender and lissom advance guard to carry, to spare
himself the weariness of their weight. Tea and tid-bit houses are plentiful, and stoppages
for refreshing ourselves frequent. The rear guard assumes considerable dignity when in the
presence of a crowd of sore-eyed rustics; he chides their ill-bred giggling at my appearance
and movements by telling them, no matter how funny I appear to them here, I am a mandarin in
my own country. After hearing this the crowd regard me with even more curiosity; but their
inquisitiveness is now heavily freighted with respect.

Some of the costumes of the women in this region are very pretty and characteristic, and many
of the females are themselves not devoid of beauty, as beauty goes among the Mongols. Particularly
do I notice one to-day, whose tiny, doll-like extremities are neatly bound with red, blue,
and green ribbon; her face is a picture of refinement, her head-dress a marvel of neatness
and skill, and her whole manner and make-up attractive. Unlike her timid and apprehensive sisters
of yesterday, she sees nothing in me to be afraid of; on the contrary, she comes and sits beside
ine on the bench and makes herself at home with the peanuts and sweets I purchase, and laughs
merrily when I offer to give her a ride on the bicycle.

The sun is sinking behind the mountains to the west when we approach the city of Ki-ngan-foo,
its northern extremity marked by a very ancient pagoda now rapidly crumbling to decay. The
city forms a crescent on the west bank of the Kan-kiang, the main street running parallel with
the river for something like half a mile before terminating at the walls of the Manchu quarter.

The fastidious gentleman at the rear has betrayed symptoms of a very uneasy state of mind during
the afternoon, and now, as he halts the procession a moment to turn the bull's-eye side of
his coat outward, and to put on his shoes, he gives me a puzzled, sorrowful look and shakes
his head dolefully. The trickiness of former acquaintances causes me to misinterpret this display
of emotion into an hypocritical assumption of sorrow at the near prospect of our parting company,
with ulterior designs on the nice long strings of tsin he knows to be in my leathern case.
It soon becomes evident, however, that trouble of some kind is anticipated in Ki-ngan-foo,
for he points to my revolver and then to the city and solemnly shakes his head.

The crescent water-front, the broad blue river and white sand, the plain dotted with smiling
villages opposite, the tall pagodas, the swarms of sampans with their quaint sails, form the
composite parts of a very pretty and striking picture, as seen from the northern tip of the
crescent.

Near the old ruined pagoda the rear-guard points in an indifferent sort of a way to a substantial
brick edifice surmounted by a plain wooden cross. Ah! a Jesuit mission, so help me Pius IX!
now shall I meet some genial old French priest, who will make me comfortable for the night
and enlighten me in regard to my bearings, distances, and other subjects about which I am in
a very thick fog. Instead of the fifty miles from Kan-tchou-foo to Ki-ngan-foo indicated on
my map, it has proved to be considerably over a hundred.

The sole occupant of the building, however, is found to be a fat, monkish-looking Chinaman,
who knows never a word of either French or pidgeon English. He says he knows Latin, but for
all the benefit this worthy accomplishment is to me he might as well know nothing but his own
language. He informs me, by an expressive motion of the hand, that the missionaries have departed;
whether gone to their everlasting reward, however, or only on a temporary flight, his pantomimic
language fails to record. Subsequently I learn that they were compelled to flee the country,
owing to the hostility aroused by the operations of the French in Tonquin.

Instead of extending that cordial greeting and consideration one would naturally expect from
a converted Chinaman whose Fankwae accomplishments soar to the classic altitude of Latin, the
Celestial convert seems rather anxious to get rid of me; he is evidently on pins and needles
for fear my presence should attract a mob to the place and trouble result therefrom.

As we proceed down the street my appearance seems to stir the population up to a pitch of wild
excitement. Merchants dart in and out of their shops, people in rags, people in tags, and people
in gorgeous apparel, buzz all about me and flit hither and thither like a nest of stirred-up
wasps. If curiosity has seemed to be rampant in other cities it passes all the limits of Occidental
imagination in Ki-ngau-foo. Upon seeing me everybody gives utterance to a peculiar spontaneous
squeak of surprise, reminding me very much of the monkeys' notes of alarm in the tree-tops
along the Grand Trunk road, India.

One might easily imagine the very lives of these people dependent upon their success in obtaining
a glimpse of my face. Well-dressed citizens rush hastily ahead, stoop down, and peer up into
my face as I trundle past, with a determination to satisfy their curiosity that our language
is totally inadequate to describe, and which our temperament renders equally difficult for
us to understand.

By the time we are half-way along the street the whole city seems in wild tumult. Men rush
ahead, peer into my face, deliver themselves of the above-mentioned peculiar squeak, and run
hastily down some convergent alley-way. Stall-keepers quickly gather up their wares, and shop-keepers
frantically snatch their goods inside as they hear the tumult and see the mob coming down the
street. The excitement grows apace, and the same wanton cries of "Fank-wae. Fankwae!" that
followed me through Kan-tchou-foo are here repeated with wild whoops and exultant cries. One
would sometimes think that all the devils of Dante's "Inferno" had gotten into the crowd and
set them wild with the spirit of mischief.

By this time the yameni-runners are quaking with fear; he of the paper parasol and jade-stone
pipe walks beside me, convulsively clutching my arm, and with whiningly anxious voice shouts
out orders to his subordinate. In response to these orders the advance-guard now and then hurries
forward and peeps around certain corners, as though expecting some hidden assailants.

Thus far, although the symptoms of trouble have been gradually assuming more and more alarming
proportions, there has been nothing worse than demoniacal howls. The chief reason of this,
however, it now appears, has been the absence of loose stones, for no sooner do we enter an
inferior quarter where loose stones and bricks are scattered about, than they come whistling
about our ears. The poor yameni-runners shout deprecatingly at the mob; in return the mob loudly
announce their intention of working destruction upon my unoffending head. Fortunately for me
that head is pretty thoroughly hidden beneath the thick pith thatch-work of my Indian solar
topee, otherwise I should have succumbed to the first fusillade of stones at the instance of
a cracked pate. Stones that would have knocked me out of time in the first round rattle harmlessly
on the 3/4-inch pith helmet, the generous proportions of which effectually protect head and
neck from harm. Once, twice, it is knocked off by a stone striking it on the brim, but it never
reaches the ground before being recovered and jammed more firmly than ever in its place. Things
begin to look pretty desperate as we approach the gate of the Manchu quarter; an immense crowd
of people have hurried down back streets and collected at this gate; fancying they are there
for the hostile purpose of heading us off, I come very near dodging into an open door way with
a view of defending myself till the yameni-runners could summon the authorities. There is no
time for second thought, however; precious little time, in fact, for anything but to keep my
helmet in its place and hurry along with the bicycle. The yameni-runners repeatedly warn the
crowd that I am armed with a top-fanchee (revolver); this, doubtless, prevents them from closing
in on us, and keeps their aggressive spirit within certain limits.

A moment's respite is happily obtained at the Manchu gate; the crowd gathered there in advance
are comparatively peaceful, and the mob, for a moment, seem to hesitate about following us
inside. Making the most of this opportunity, we hurry forward toward the yamen, which, I afterward
learn, is still two or three hundred yards distant. Ere fifty yards are covered the mob come
pouring through the gate, yelling like demons and picking up stones as they hurry after us.
"A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse." or, what would suit me equally as well, a short
piece of smooth road in lieu of break-neck cobble-stones.

Again are we overtaken and bombarded vigorously; ignorant of the distance to the yamen, I again
begin looking about for some place in which to retreat for defensive purposes, unwilling to
abandon the bicycle to destruction and seek doubtful safety in flight. At this juncture a brick
strikes the unfortunate rear-guard on the arm, injuring that member severely, and quickening
the already badly frightened yameni-runners to the urgent necessity of bringing matters to
an ending somehow.

Pointing forward, they persist in dragging me into a run. Thus far I have been very careful
to preserve outward composure, feeling sure that any demonstration of weakness on my part would
surely operate to my disadvantage. The runners' appealing cries of "Yameni! yameni!" however,
prove that we are almost there, and for fifty or seventy-five yards we scurry along before
the vengeful storm of stones and pursuing mob.

As I anticipated, our running only increases the exultation of the mob, and ere we get inside
the yamen gate the foremost of them are upon us. Two or three of the boldest spirits seize
the bicycle, though the majority are evidently afraid I might turn loose on them with the top-fanchee.
We are struggling to get loose from these few determined ruffians when the officials of the
yamen, hearing the tumult, come hurrying to our rescue.

The only damage done is a couple of spokes broken out of the bicycle, a number of trifling
bruises about my body, a badly dented helmet, and the yameni-runner's arm rather severely hurt.
When fairly inside and away from danger the pent-up feelings of the advance-guard escape in
silent tears, and his superior of the jade-stone pipe sits down and mournfully bemoans his
wounded arm. This arm is really badly hurt, probably has sustained a slight fracture of the
bone, judging from its unfortunate owner's complaints.

The Che-hsein, as I believe the chief magistrate is titled, greets me while running out with
his subordinates, with reassuring cries of "S-s-o, s-s-o, s-s-o, s-s-o," repeated with extraordinary
rapidity between shouts of deprecation to the mob. The mob seem half inclined to pursue us
even inside the precincts of the yamen, but the authoritative voice of the Che-hsein restrains
their aggressiveness within partly governable measure; nevertheless, in spite of his presence,
showers of stones are hurled into the yamen so long as I remain in sight.

As quickly as possible the Che-hsein ushers me into his own office, where he quickly proves
himself a comparatively enlightened individual by arching his eyebrows and propounding the
query, "French?" "Ying-yun," I reply, feeling the advantage of being English or American, rather
than French, more appreciably perhaps than I have ever done before or since.

This question of the Che-hsein's at once reveals a gleam of explanatory light concerning the
hostility of the people. For aught I know to the contrary it may be but a few days ago since
the Jesuit missionaries were compelled to flee for their lives. The mob cannot be expected
to distinguish between French and English; to the average Celestial we of the Western world
are indiscriminately known as Fankwaes, or foreign devils; even to such an enlightened individual
as the Che-hsein himself these divisions of the Fankwae race are but vaguely understood.

After satisfying himself by questioning the yameni-runners, that I am without companions or
other baggage save the bicycle, the Che-hsein ferrets out a bottle of samshoo and tenders me
a liberal allowance in a tea-cup. This is evidently administered with the kindly intention
of quieting my nerves, which he imagines to be unstrung from the alarmingly rough treatment
at the hands of his riotous townmen.

Riotous they are, beyond a doubt, for even as the Che-hsein pours out the samshoo the clamorous
howls of "Fankwae. Fankwae." seem louder than ever at the gates. Now and then, as the tumult
outside seems to be increasing, the Che-hsein writes big red characters on flat bamboo-staves
and sends it out by an officer to be read to the mob; and occasionally, as he sits and listens
attentively to the clamor, as though gauging the situation by the volume of the noise, he addresses
himself to me with a soothing and reassuring "S-s-o, s-s-o, s-s-o, s-o."

Shortly after my arrival the worthy-minded Che-hsein knits his brow for a moment in a profound
study, and then, lightening up suddenly, delivers himself of "No savvy," a choice morsel of
pidgeon English that he has somehow acquired. This is the full extent of his knowledge, however;
but, feeble glimmer of my own mother tongue though it be, it sounds quite cheery amid the wilderness
wild of Celestial gabble in the office. For although the shackles of authority hold in check
the murderous mob, howling for my barbarian gore outside, a constant stream of officials and
their friends are admitted to see me and the bicycle.

In making an examination of the bicycle, the peculiar "Ki-ngan-foo squeak" finds spontaneous
expression at every new surprise. A man enters the room, peers wonderingly into my face-squeak!--comes
closer, and looks again--squeak!--notices the peculiar cut of my garments--squeak!--observes
my shoes--squeak!--sees helmet on table--squeak!--sees the bicycle--squeak!--goes and touches
it--squeak!--finds out that the pedals twirl round--squeak! and thus he continues until he
has seen everything and squeaked at everything; he then takes a lingering survey of the room
to satisfy himself that nothing has been overlooked, gives a parting squeak, and leaves the room.

The Che-hsein provides me with a chicken, boiled whole, head included, for supper, and consumes
his own meal at the same time. The difference between the Che-hsein, eating little prepared
meatballs and rice, with gilded chop-sticks, and myself tearing the spraggly-looking rooster
asunder and gnawing the drum-sticks greedily with my teeth, no doubt readily appeals to the
interested lookers-on as an instructive picture of Chinese civilization and outer barbarism
as depicted in our respective modes of eating, side by side.

More than once during the evening the tumult at the gate swells into a fierce hubbub, as though
pandemonium had broken loose, and the blood-thirsty mob were determined to fetch me out. Every
minute, at these periodical outbursts, I expect to see them come surging in through the doorway.
A sociable young man, whose chief concern is to keep me supplied with pipes and tea, explains,
with the aid of a taper, that the crowd are desirous of burning me alive. This cheerful piece
of information, the sociable young man imparts with a characteristic Chinese chuckle of amusement;
the thought of a Fankwae squirming and sizzling in the oil-fed flames touches the chord of
his risibilities, and makes him giggle merrily. The Che-hsein himself occasionally goes out
and harangues the excited mob, the authoritative tones of his voice being plainly heard above
the squabbling and yelling.

It must be near about midnight when the excitement has finally subsided, and the mob disperse
to their homes. Six yameni-runners then file into the room, paper umbrellas slung at their
backs in green cloth cases, and stout bamboo quarter-staves in hand. The Che-hsein gives them
their orders and delivers a letter into the hands of the officer in charge; he then bids me
prepare to depart, bidding me farewell with much polite bowing and scraping, and sundry memorable
"chin-chins."

A closely covered palanquin is waiting outside the door; into this I am conducted and the blinds
carefully drawn. A squad of men with flaming torches, the Che-hsein, and several officials
lead the way, maintaining great secrecy and quiet; stout carriers hoist the palanquin to their
shoulders and follow on behind; others bring up the rear carrying the bicycle.

Back through the Manchu quarter and out of the gate again our little cavalcade wends its way,
the officials immediately about the palanquin addressing one another in undertones; back, part
way along the same street which but a few short hours ago resounded with the hoots and yells
of the mischievous mob, down a long flight of steps, and the palanquin is resting at the end
of a gang-plank leading aboard a little passenger-sampan. The worthy Che-hsein bows and scrapes
and chin-chins me along this gang-plank, the bicycle is brought aboard, the six yameni-runners
follow suit, and the boat is poled out into the river. The squad of torch-bearers are seen
watching our progress until we are well out into the middle of the stream, and the officer
in charge of my little guard stands out and signals them with his lantern, notifying them,
I suppose, that all is well. One would imagine, from their actions, that they were apprehensive
of our sampan being pursued or ambushed by some determined party. And yet the scene, as we
drift noiselessly along with the current, looks lovely and peaceful as the realms of the blest;
the crescent moon, the shimmering water--and the slowly receding lights of the city; what danger
can there possibly be in so quiet and peaceful a scene as this?

By daylight we are anchored before another walled city, which I think is Ki-shway, a city of
considerable pretentions as to wall, but full of social and moral rottenness and commercial
decadence within, judging, at least, from outward appearances. Few among the crowds that are
permitted free access to the yamen here do not betray, in unmistakable measure, the sins of
former generations; while, as regards trade, half the place is in a ruinous, tumble-down condition.

The mandarin here is a fleshy, old-fashioned individual, with thick lips and an expression
of great good humor. He provides me with a substantial breakfast of rice and pork, and fetches
his wife and children in to enjoy the exhibition of a Fankwae feeding, likewise permitting
the crowd to look in through the doors and windows. He is a phlegmatic, easy-going Celestial,
and occupies about two hours copying my passport and writing a letter. At the end of this time
he musters a squad of twelve retainers in faded red uniforms and armed with rusty pikes, who
lead the way back to the river, followed by three yameni-runners, equipped, as usual, each
with an umbrella and a small string of tsin to buy their food. The gentlemen with the mediaeval
weapons accompany us to the river and keep the crowd from pressing too closely upon us until
I and the yameni-runners board a Ki shway sampan that is to convey me to the next down-stream city.

It now becomes apparent that my bicycling experiences in China are about ending, and that the
authorities have determined upon passing me down the Kan-kiang by boat to the Yang-tsi-kiang.
I am to be passed on from city to city like a bale of merchandise, delivered and receipted
for from day to day.

A few miles down stream we overtake a fleet of some twenty war-junks, presenting a most novel
and interesting sight, crowded as each one is with the gayest of flags and streaming pennants
galore. The junks are cumbersome enough, in all conscience, as utterly useless for purposes
of modern warfare as the same number of floating hogsheads; yet withal they make a gallant
sight, the like of which is to be seen nowhere these days but on the inland waters of China.
Each junk is propelled by a crew of fourteen oarsmen, dressed in uniforms corresponding in
color to the triangular flags that flutter gayly in the breeze at the stern. Not the least
interesting part of the spectacle are these same oarsmen, as they ply. their long unwieldy
sweeps in admirable unison; the sleeves of their coats are almost as broad as the body of the
garment, and at every sweep of the oar these all flap up and down together in a manner most
comical to behold.

All day long our modest little sampan keeps company with this gay fleet, giving me an excellent
opportunity of witnessing its manoeuvres. Said manoeuvres and evolutions consist of more or
less noisy greetings and demonstrations at every town and village we pass. In the case of a
small town, a number of pikemen and officials assemble on the shore, erect a few flags, hammer
vigorously on a resonant gong, shout out some sing-song greeting and shoot off a number of
bombs and fire-crackers. The foremost vessel of the fleet replies to these noisy compliments
by a salute of its one gun, and mayhap throws in two or three bombs, according to the liberality
of the salutation ashore.

At the larger towns the amount of gunpowder burned and noise created is something wonderful.
Bushels of fire-crackers are snapping and rattling away, the while gongs are beating, bombs
exploding by the score, and salvoes of artillery are making the mountains echo, from every
vessel in the fleet. Beneath the walls of a town we pass soon after noon are ranged fifteen
other junks; as the fleet passes, these vessels simultaneously discharge all their guns, while
at the same instant there burst upon the startled air detonations from hundreds of bombs, big
heaps of firecrackers, and the din of many resonant gongs. Not to be outdone, the fleet of
twenty return the compliment in kind, and with cheers from the crews thrown in for interest.

The fifteen now join the procession, adding volume and picturesqueness to the already wonderfully
pretty scene, by their hundreds of brilliant-hued banners, and theatrically costumed oarsmen.
About four o'clock, as we are approaching the city of Hat-kiang, our destination for the day,
there comes to meet the gallant navy a pair of twin vessels surpassing all the others in the
gorgeousness of their flags and the picturesqueness of the costumes. Purple is the prevailing
color of both flags and crew. At their splendid appearance our yameni-runners announce in tones
of enthusiasm and admiration that these new-comers hail from Lin-kiang, a large city down stream,
that I fancied, it will be remembered, having reached at Ta-ho.

The officials are still abed when, in the early morning of the third day, we reach Sin-kiang,
and repair to the yamen. A large crowd, however, gather and follow us from the market-place,
swelling gradually by reenforcements to a multitude that surges in and out of the shanty-like
office in such swarms that the frail board walls bulge and crack with the pressure. When the
crowd overwhelm the place entirely, the officials clear them out by angry gesticulations and
moral suasion, sometimes menacingly shaking the end of their own queues at them as though they
were wielding black-snake whips. Having driven them out, no further notice is taken of them,
so they immediately begin swarming in again, until the room is again inundated, when they are
again driven out.

The permitting of this ebbing and flowing of the multitude into the official quarters is something
quite incomprehensible to me; the mob is swayed and controlled--as far as they are controlled
at all--without any organized effort of those in authority; when the officials commence screaming
angrily at them they begin moving out; when the shouting ceases they begin swarming back. Thus
in the course of an hour the room will, perchance, be filled and emptied with angry remonstrance
half a dozen times, when, from our own stand-point, a couple of men stationed at the door with
authority to keep them out would prevent all the bother and annoyance. Sure enough the Chinaman
is "a peculiar little cuss," whether seen at home or abroad.

If the inhabitants of Ki-shway are scrofulous, sore-eyed, and mangy, they are at least an improvement
on the disgusting state of the public health at Sin-kiang, as revealed in the lamentable condition
of the crowd at the yamen and in the markets. Scarcely is it possible to single out a human
being of sound and healthful appearance from among them all. Everybody has sore eyes, some
have horribly diseased scalps, sores on face and body, and all the horrible array of acquired
and hereditary diseases. One's hair stands on end almost at the thought of being among them,
to say nothing of eating in their presence, and of their own cooking. Of my new escort from
Sin-kiang all three have dreadfully sore eyes, and one wretched mortal is as piebald as a circus
pony, from head to foot, with the leprosy. Added to these recommendations, they have the manners
and instincts of swine rather than of human beings.

The same sampan is re-engaged to convey us farther down stream; beneath the housing of bamboo-mats,
the rice-chaff leaves barely room for us to crowd in and huddle together from the rain and
cold prevailing outside. The worst the elements can do, however, is far preferable to personal
contact with these vile creatures; and so I don my blanket and gossamer rubbers, and sit out
in the rain. The rain ceases and the chilly night air covers everything with a coating of hoar-frost,
but all this is nothing compared with the horrible associations inside, the reeking fumes of
opium and tobacco adding yet another abomination to be remembered.

At early morn we land and pursue our way for a few miles across country to Lin-kiang, which
is situated on a big tributary stream a few miles above its junction with the Kan-kiang. Our
way loads through a rich strip of low country, sheltered and protected from inundations by
an extensive system of dykes. Here we pass through orchards of orange-trees bristling with
the small blood-red mandarin oranges; we help ourselves freely from the trees, for their great
plenteousness makes them of very little value. On the stalls they can be purchased six for
one cent; like the people in the great peanut producing country below Nam-hung, the cheapness
and abundance of oranges here seems an inducement for the people to almost subsist thereon.

Everybody is either buying, stealing, selling, packing, gathering, carrying, or eating oranges;
coolies are staggering Lin-kiang-ward beneath big baskets of newly plucked fruit, and others
are conveying them in wheelbarrows; boats are being loaded for conveyance along the river.
Every orange-tree is distinguished by white characters painted on its trunk, big enough so
that those who run may read the rightful owner's name and take warning accordingly.

Three more wearisome but eventful days, battling against adverse winds, and we come to anchor
in a little slough, where a war-junk and several fishing vessels are already moored for the
night. While supper is preparing I pass the time promenading back and forth along a little
foot-trail leading for a short distance round the shore. The crew of the war-vessel are engaged
in drying freshwater shrimps, tiny minnows, and other drainings and rakings of the water to
store away for future use. One of the younger officers stalks back and forth along the same
path as myself, brusquely maintaining the road whenever we meet, evidently bent on showing
off his contempt for the boasted prowess of the Fankwaes, by compelling me to step to one side.
His demeanor is that of a bully stalking about with the traditional chip on his shoulder, daring
me to come and knock it off. Considering the circumstances about us, this is a wonderfully
courageous performance on his part; nothing but his ignorance of my Smith & Wesson can explain
his temerity in assuming a bellicose attitude with only one man-of-war at his back. Out of
consideration for this ignorance, I studiously avoid interfering with the chip.

At length the river-voyage comes to an end at Wu-chang, on the Poyang Hoo, when I am permitted
to proceed overland with an escort to Kui-kiang.

Spending the last night at a village inn, we pursue our way over awful bowlder paths next morning,
for several miles; over a low mountain-pass and down the northern slope to a level plain. A
towering white pagoda is observable in the distance ahead; thia the yameni-runner says is Kui-kiang.
At a little way-side tea-house, I find Christmas numbers of the London Graphic pasted on the
walls; yet with all this, so utterly unreliable has my information heretofore been, and so
often have my hopes and expectations turned out disappointing, that I am almost afraid to believe
the evidence of my own senses. The Graphic pictures are of the Christmas pantomimes; the good
woman of the tea-house points out to me the tremendous noses, the ear-to-ear mouths, and the
abnormal growths of chin therein depicted, with much amusement; "Fankwae," she says, "te-he,
te-he," apparently fancying them genuine representations of certain types of that queer, queer
people.

The paths improve, and soon I see the smoke of a steamer on the Yang-tsi than which, it is
needless to say, no more welcome sight has greeted my vision the whole world round. Only the
smoke is seen, rising above the city; it cannot be a steamer, it is too good to be possible!
this isn't Kui-kiang; this is another wretched disappointment, the smoke is some Chinese house
on fire! Not until I get near enough to distinguish flags on the consulates, and the crosses
on the mission churches, do I permit myself fully to believe that I am at last actually looking
at Kui-kiang, the city that I have begun to think a delusion and a snare, an ignis fatuus that
was dancing away faster than I was approaching.

The sight of all these unmistakable proofs that I am at last bidding farewell to the hardships,
the horrible filth, the soul-harrowing crowds, the abominable paths, and the ever-present danger
and want of consideration; that in a little while all these will be a dream of the past, gives
wings to my wheel wherever it can be mounted, and ridden. The yameni-runner is left far behind,
and I have already engaged a row-boat to cross the little lake in the rear of the city, and
the boatman is already pulling me to the "Ying-yun," when the poor yameni-runner comes hurrying
up and shouts frantically for me to come back and fetch him.

Knowing that the man has to take back his receipt I yield to his request, follow him first
to the Kui-kiang yamen, and from thence proceed to the English consulate. Captain McQuinn,
of the China Steam Navigation Company's steamer Peking, and the consulate doctor see me riding
down the smooth gravelled bund, followed by a crowd of delighted Celestials. "Hello! are you
from Canton" they sing out in chorus. "Well, well, well! nobody expected to ever see anything
of you again; and so you got through all safe, eh?"

"What's the matter? you look bad about the eyes," says the observant doctor, upon shaking hands;
"you look haggard and fagged out."

Upon surveying myself in a mirror at the consulate I can see that the doctor is quite justified
in his apprehensions. Hair long, face unshaved for five weeks, thin and gaunt-looking from
daily hunger, worry, and hard dues generally, I look worse than a hunted greyhound. I look
far worse, however, than I feel; a few days' rest and wholesome fare will work wonders.

An appetizing lunch of cold duck, cheese, and Bass's ale is quickly provided by Mr. Everard,
the consul, who seems very pleased that the affair at Ki-ngan-foo ended without serious injury
to anybody.

The Peking starts for Shanghai in an hour after my arrival; a warm bath, a shave, and a suit
of clothes, kindly provided by pilot King, brings about something of a transformation in my
appearance. Bountiful meals, clean, springy beds, and elegantly fitted cabins, form an impressive
contrast to my life aboard the sampans on the Kan-kiang. The genii of Aladdin's lamp could
scarcely execute any more marvellous change than that from my quarters and fare and surroundings
at the village hittim, where my last night on the road from Canton was spent, and my first
night aboard the elegant and luxurious Peking, only a day later.

A pleasant run down the Yang-tsi-kiang to Shanghai, and I arrive at that city just twenty-four
hours before the Japanese steamer, Yokohama Maru, sails for Nagasaki. Taking passage aboard
it leaves me but one brief day in the important and interesting city of Shanghai, during which
time I have to purchase a new outfit of clothes, see about money matters, and what not.

CHAPTER XIX.

THROUGH JAPAN.

An uneventful run of two days, and the Yokohama Maru steams into the beautiful harbor of Nagasaki.
The change from the filth of a Chinese city to Nagasaki, clean as if it had all just been newly
scoured and varnished, is something delightful. One gets a favorable impression of the Japs
right away; much more so, doubtless, by coming direct from China than in any other way. Two
days of preparation and looking about leaves almost a pang of regret at having to depart so
soon. The American consul here, Mr. B, is a very courteous gentleman; to him and Mr. M, an
American gentleman, instructor in the Chinese navy, I am indebted for an exhibition of the
geisha dance, and many other courtesies.

Having duly supplied myself with Japanese paper-money--ten, five, and one yen notes; fractional
currency of fifty, twenty, and ten sen notes, besides copper sen for tea and fruit at road-side
teahouses, on Tuesday morning, November 23d, I start on my journey of eight hundred miles through
lovely Nippon to Yokohama.

Captain F and Mr. B, the American consul, have come to the hotel to see me off. A showery night
has made the roads a trifle muddy. Through the long, neat-looking streets of Nagasaki, into
a winding road, past crowded hill-side cemeteries, adorned with queer stunted trees and quaint
designs in flowers, I ride, followed by wondering eyes and a running fire of curious comments
from the Japs.

Nagasaki lies at the shoreward base of a range of hills, over a pass called the Himi-toge,
which my road climbs immediately upon leaving the city. A good road is maintained over the
pass, and an office established there to collect toll from travellers and people bringing produce
into Nagasaki. The aged and polite toll-collector smiles and bows at me as I trundle innocently
past his sentry-box-like office up the steep incline, hoping that I may take the hint and spare
him the necessity of telling me the nature of his duty. My inexperience of Japanese tolls and
roads, however, renders his politeness inoperative, and, after allowing me to get past, duty
compels him to issue forth and explain. A wooden ticket containing Japanese characters is given
me in exchange for a few tiny coins. This I fancy to be a passport for another toll-place higher
up. Subsequently, however, I learn it to be a return ticket, the old toll-keeper very naturally
thinking I would return, by and by, to Nagasaki.

Ponies and buffaloes, laden with baskets of rice, fodder, firewood, and various agricultural
products, are encountered on the pass, in charge of Japanese rustics in broad bamboo-hats,
red blankets, bare legs, and straw sandals, who lead their charges by long halter-ropes. Both
horses and buffaloes are shod with shoes of the same unsubstantial material as the men. When
the Japanese traveller sets out on a journey, he provides himself with a new pair of straw
sandals; these last him for a tramp of from ten to twenty miles, according to the nature of
the road. When worn out, his foot-gear may be readily renewed at any village for a mere song.
The same may be said of his horse or buffalo, although several extra shoes are generally carried
along in case of need.

The summit of the pass is distinguished by a very deep cutting through the ridge rock of the
mountain, and a series of successive sharp turns back and forth along narrow-terraced gardens
and fields bring the road down into the valley of a clear little stream, called the Himi-gawa.
Smooth, hard roads follow along this purling rivulet, now and then crossing it on a stone or
wooden bridge. A small estuary, reaching inland like a big bite out of a cake, is passed, and
the pretty little village of Yagami reached for dinner. The eating-house, like nearly all Japanese
eating-places, is neat and cleanly, the brown wood-work being fairly polished bright from floor
to ceiling.

Sitting down on the edge of the raised floor, I am approached by the landlady, who kneels down
and bows her forehead to the floor. Her politeness is very charming, and her smile would no
doubt be more or less winsome were it not for the hideous blackening of the teeth. Blackened
teeth is the distinguishing mark between maid and matron in the flowery kingdom of the Mikados.
The teeth are stained black at marriage, and henceforth a smile that heretofore displayed rows
of small white ivories, and perchance was fairly bewitching, becomes positively repulsive to
the Western mind.

Fish and rice (sakana and meshi) are the most readily obtainable things to eat at a Japanese
hotel, and often form the only bill of fare. Sake, or rice-beer, is usually included in the
Jap's own meal, but the average European traveller at first prefers limiting his beverage to
tea. The sake is served up in big-necked bottles of cheap porcelain holding about a pint. The
bottle is set for a few minutes in boiling water to warm the sake, the Japs preferring to drink
it warm. Sake is more like spirits than beer, an honest alcoholic production from rice that
soon recommends itself to the European palate, though rather offensive at first.

Every tea-house along the road is made doubly attractive by prettily dressed attendants-smiling
girls who come out and invite passing travellers to rest and buy tea and refreshments. Their
solicitations are chiefly winsome smiles and polite bows and the cheerful greeting "O-ai-o"
(the Japanese "how do you do"). A tiny teapot, no larger than those the little girls at home
play at "keeping house" with, and shell-like cup to match, is brought on a lacquered tray and
placed before one, with charming grace, if a halt is made at one of these tea-houses. Persimmons,
sweets, cakes, and various tid-bits are temptingly arrayed on the sloping stand in front. The
most trifling purchase is rewarded with an exhibition of good-nature and politeness worth many
times the money.

About sunset I roll into the smooth, clean streets of Omura, a good-sized town, and seek the
accommodation of a charming yadoya (inn) pointed out by a youth in semi-European clothes, who
seems bubbling over with pleasure at the opportunity of rendering me this slight assistance.
A room is assigned me upstairs, a mat spread for me to recline on, by a polite damsel, who
touches her forehead to the floor both when she makes her appearance and her exit. Having got
me comfortably settled down with the customary service of tea, sweets, little boxed brazier
of live charcoal, spittoon, etc., the proprietor, his wife, and daughter, all come up and prostrate
themselves after the most approved fashion.

After all the salaaming and deferentiality experienced in other Eastern countries, one still
cannot help being impressed with the spectacle of several grotesque Japs bowing before one's
seated figure like Hindoos prostrating themselves before some idol With any other people than
the Japs this lowly attitude would seem offensively servile; but these inimitable people leave
not the slightest room for thinking their actions obsequious. The Japs are a wonderful race;
they seem to be the happiest people going, always smiling and good-natured, always polite and
gentle, always bowing and scraping.

After a bountiful supper of several fishy preparations and rice, the landlord bobs his head
to the floor, sucks his breath through the teeth after the peculiar manner of the Japs when
desirous of being excessively polite, and extends his hands for my passport. This the yadoya
proprietor is required to take and have examined at the police station, provided no policeman
calls for it at the house.

The Japanese Government, in its efforts to improve the institutions of the country, has introduced
systems of reform from various countries. Commissions were sent to the different Western countries
to examine and report upon the methods of education, police, army, navy, postal matters, judiciary,
etc. What was believed to be the best of the various systems was then selected as the model
of Japan's new departure and adoption of Western civilization. Thus the police service is modelled
from the French, the judiciary from the English, the schools after the American methods, etc.
Having inaugurated these improvements, the Japs seem determined to follow their models with
the same minute scrupulosity they exhibit in copying material things. There is probably as
little use for elaborate police regulations in Japan as in any country under the sun; but having
chosen the splendid police service of France to pattern by, they can now boast of having a
service that lacks nothing in effectiveness.

A very good road, with an avenue of fine spreading conifers of some kind, leads out of Omura.
To the left is the bay of Omura, closely skirted at times by the road. At one place is observed
an inland temple, connected with the mainland by a causeway of rough rock. The little island
is covered with dark pines and jagged rocks, amid which the Japs have perched their shrine
and erected a temple. Both the Chinese and Japs seem fond of selecting the most romantic spots
for their worship and the erection of religious edifices.

The day is warm, and a heavy shower during the night has made the road heavy in places, although
much of it is clean gravel that is not injured by the rain. Over hill and down dale the ku-ruma
road leads to Ureshino, a place celebrated for its mineral springs and bath. On the way one
passes through charming little ravines, where tiny cataracts come tumbling down the sides of
moss-grown precipices, a country of pretty thatched cottages, temples, groves, and purling
rivulets.

On the streams are numerous rice-hulling machines, operated by the ingenious manipulation of
the water. In a little hut is a mortar containing the rice. Attached to a pivot is a long beam
having a pestle at one end and a trough at the other. The pestle is made to fall upon the rice
in the mortar by the filling and automatic emptying of the trough outside. The trough, filling
with water, drops down and empties of its own weight; this causes the opposite end to fall
suddenly. This operation repeats itself about every two seconds through the day.

The gravelly hills about Ureshino are devoted to the cultivation of tea; the green tea-gardens,
with the undulating, even rows of thick shrubs, looking very beautiful where they slope to
the foot of the bare rocky cliffs. Ureshino and the baths are some little distance off the
main road to Shimonoseki; so, not caring particularly to go there, I continue on to the village
of Takio, where rainy weather compels a halt of several hours. Everything is so delightfully
superior, as compared with China, that the Japanese village yadoya seems a veritable paradise
during these first days of my acquaintance with them. Life at a Chinese village hittim for
a week would well-nigh unseat the average Anglo-Saxon's reason, whereas he might spend the
same time very pleasantly in a Japanese country inn. The region immediately around Takio is
not only naturally lovely, but is embellished by little artificial lakes, islands, grottoes,
and various landscape novelties such as the Japs alone excel in.

An eight-wire telegraph line threads the road from Takio to Ushidzu, passing through numerous
villages that almost form a continuous street from one town to the other. As one notices such
improvements, and sees the police and telegraph officials in trim European uniforms seated
in their neat offices, an American clock invariably on the wall within, and, moreover, notes
the uniform friendliness of the people, it is difficult to imagine that thirty years ago one
would have been in more danger travelling through here than through China. Passing through
the main streets of Ushidzu in search of the best yadoya, I am accosted by a middle-aged woman
with, "Hello! you wanchee room? wanchee chow-chow." Her mother keeps a yadoya, she tells me,
and leads the way thither, chatting gayly in pidgeon English, all the way. She seems very pleased
at the opportunity to exercise her little stock of broken English, and tells me she learned
it at Shanghai, where she once resided for a couple of years in an English family. Her name,
she says, is O-hanna, but her English friends used to call her Hannah, without the prefix.
Understanding from experience what I would be most likely to appreciate for supper, she rustles
around and prepares a nice fish, plenty of Ureshino tea, sugar, sweet-cakes, and sliced pomolo;
this, together with rice, is the extent of Ushidzu's present gastronomic limits.

The following morning opens with a white frost, the road is level and good, and the yadoya
people see that I am provided with a substantial breakfast in good season. My boots, I find,
have been cleaned even. They were cleaned with a rag, O-hanna apologizing for the absence of
shoe-brushes and blacking in pidgeon English: "Brush no have got."

In striking contrast to China, here are gangs of "cantonniers" taking care of the road; men
in regular blue uniforms with big white "bull's-eyes," and characters like our Celestial friends
the yameni-runners. Troops of school-children are passed on the road going to school with books
and tally-boards under their arm. They sometimes range themselves in rows alongside the road,
and, as I wheel past, bob their heads simultaneously down to the level of their knees and greet
me with a polite "O-ai-o."

The country hereabout is rich and populous, and the people seemingly well-to-do. The tea-houses,
farm-houses, and even the little ricks of rice seem built with an eye to artistic effect. One
sees here the gradual encroachment of Western mechanical improvements. The first two-handled
plough I have seen since leaving Europe is encountered this morning; but alongside it are men
using the clumsy Japanese digging-tool of their ancestors, and both men and women stripped
to the waist, hulling rice by pounding it in mortars with long-headed pestles. It is merely
a question of a few years, however, until the intelligent Japs will discard all their old clumsy
methods and introduce the latest agricultural improvements of the West into their country.
Passing through a mile or more of Saga's smooth and continuously ridable streets, past big
school-houses where hundreds of children are reciting aloud in chorus, past the big bronze
Buddha for which Saga is locally famous, the road continues through a somewhat undulating country,
ridable, generally speaking, the whole way. Long cedar or cryptomerian avenues sometimes characterize
the way. Strings of peasants are encountered, leading pack-ponies and bullocks. The former
seem to be vicious little wretches, rather masters, on the whole, than servants of their leaders.

