And they set forth bread tofore him, which said: I shall not eat till I have done mine errand
and said wherefore I am come. And it was answered to him, say on, and he said: I am servant
of Abraham, and God hath blessed and magnified him greatly and hath given to him oxen and sheep,
silver and gold, servants men and women, camels and asses. And Sarah his wife hath brought
him forth a son in her old age, and he hath given to him all that he had. And my lord hath
charged and adjured me saying: In no wise let my son Isaac have no wife of the daughters of
Canaan in whose land he dwelleth, but go unto the house of my father and of my kindred, and
of them thou shall take a wife to my son, wherefore I am come hither. And told all how he prayed
God of some token, and how Rebekah did to him, and in conclusion desired to have Rebekah for
his lord Isaac; and if he would not, that he might depart and go into some other place, on
the right side or on the left, to seek a wife for his lord's son. Then Bethuel and Laban said
to him: This word is come of God, against his will we may nothing do. Lo! Rebekah standeth
tofore thee, take her and go forth that she may be wife unto the son of thy lord, as our Lord
hath said. Which words when Abraham's servant had heard, he fell down to the ground and thanked
our Lord, and anon took forth silver vessels and of gold and good clothes and gave them to
Rebekah for a gift. And to her brethren and mother he gave also gifts, and anon they made a
feast, and ate and were joyful together. On the morn betimes, the servant of Abraham arose,
and desired to depart and take Rebekah with him and go to his lord. Then the mother and her
brethren said: Let the maid abide with us but only ten days, and then take her and go thy way.
I pray you, said he, retain ne let [hinder] me not, our Lord hath addressed my way and achieved
my errand, wherefore let me go to my lord. And they said: We shall call the maid and know her
will; and when she was demanded if she would go with that man, she said: Yea, I shall go with
him. Then they let her go, and her nurse with her, and so she departed, and they said to her:
Thou art our sister, we pray God that thou mayst increase into a thousand thousand, and that
thy seed may possess the gates of their enemies. Then Rebekah and her maidens ascended upon
the camels, and followed the servant of Abraham which hastily returned unto his lord.

That same time, when they were come, Isaac walked by the way without forth and looked up and
saw the camels coming from far. Rebekah espied him and demanded of the servant who that he
was that came in the field against them. He answered and said: That is my lord Isaac, and anon
she took her pall or mantle and covered her. The servant anon told unto his lord Isaac all
that he had done; which received her and led her into the tabernacle of Sarah his mother and
wedded her, and took her in to his wife, and so much loved her, that the love attempered the
sorrow that he had for his mother. Abraham after this wedded another wife, by whom he had divers
children. Abraham gave to Isaac all his possessions, and to his other children he gave movable
goods, and departed the sons of his concubines from his son Isaac whilst he yet lived. And
all the days of the life of Abraham were one hundred and seventy-five years, and then died
in good mind and age, and Isaac and Ishmael buried him by his wife Sarah in a double spelunke
[cave].

HERE BEGINNETH THE LIFE OF ISAAC

WITH THE HISTORY OF ESAU AND OF JACOB

Which is read in the Church the Second Sunday in Lent

Isaac was forty years old when he wedded Rebekah and she bare him no children. Wherefore he
besought our Lord that she might bring forth fruit. Our Lord heard his prayer, and she had
twain sons at once. The first was rough from the head to the foot, and he was named Esau; and
the other was named Jacob. Isaac the father was sixty years old when these children were born.
And after this, when they were grown to reasonable age, Esau became a ploughman, and a tiller
of the earth, and an hunter. And Jacob was simple and dwelled at home with his mother. Isaac
the father loved well Esau, because he ate oft of the venison that Esau took, and Rebekah the
mother loved Jacob.

Jacob on a time had made a good pottage, and Esau his brother had been an hunting all day and
came home sore an hungred, and found Jacob having good pottage, and prayed him to give him
some, for he was weary and much hungry. To whom Jacob said: If thou wilt sell to me thy patrimony
and heritage I shall give thee some pottage. And Esau answered, Lo! I die for hunger, what
shall avail me mine inheritance if I die, and what shall profit me my patrimony? I am content
that thou take it for this pottage. Jacob then said: Swear that to me thou shalt never claim
it, and that thou art content I shall enjoy it, and Esau sware it, and so sold away his patrimony,
and took the pottage and ate it, and went his way, setting nothing thereby that he had sold
his patrimony. This aforesaid is to bring in my matter of the history that is read, for now
followeth the legend as it is read in the church.

Isaac began to wax old and his eyes failed and dimmed that he might not clearly see. And on
a time he called Esau his oldest son and said to him: Son mine, which answered: Father, I am
here ready, to whom the father said: Behold that I wax old and know not the day that I shall
die and depart out of this world, wherefore take thine harness, thy bow and quiver with tackles,
and go forth an hunting, and when thou hast taken any venison, make to me thereof such manner
meat as thou knowest that I am wont to eat, and bring it to me that I may eat it, and that
my soul may bless thee ere I die. Which all these words Rebekah heard. And Esau went forth
for to accomplish the commandment of his father, and she said then to Jacob: I have heard thy
father say to Esau, thy brother: Bring to me of thy venison, and make thereof meat that I may
eat, and that I may bless thee tofore our Lord ere I die. Now my son, take heed to my counsel,
and go forth to the flock, and bring to me two the best kids that thou canst find, and I shall
make of them meat such as thy father shall gladly eat, which when thou hast brought to him
and hast eaten he may bless thee ere he die: To whom Jacob answered: Knowest thou not that
my brother is rough and hairy and I am smooth? If my father take me to him and taste me and
feel, I dread me that he shall think that I mock him, and shall give me his curse for the blessing.
The mother then said to him: In me, said she, be this curse, my son, nevertheless hear me;
go to the flock and do that I have said to thee. He went and fetched the kids and delivered
them to his mother, and she went and ordained them into such meat as she knew well that his
father loved, and took the best clothes that Esau had, and did them on Jacob. And the skins
of the kid she did about his neck and hands there as he was bare, and delivered to him bread
and the pulment that she had boiled. And he went to his father and said: Father mine, and he
answered: I am here; who art thou, my son? Jacob said: I am Esau, thy first begotten son, I
have done as thou commandedst me, arise, sit and eat of the venison of my hunting that thy
soul may bless me. Then said Isaac again to his son: How mightest thou, said he, so soon find
and take it, my son? To whom he answered: It was the will of God that such thing as I desired
came soon to my hand. Isaac said to him: Come hither to me, my son, that I may touch and handle
thee, that I may prove whether thou be my son Esau or not. He came to his father, and when
he had felt him, Isaac said: The voice truly is the voice of Jacob, but the hands be the hands
of Esau. And he knew him not, for his hands expressed the likeness and similitude of the more
brother. Therefore blessing him, he said to him: Thou art then my son Esau? He answered and
said: I am he. Then said Isaac: Bring to the meat of thine hunting, my son, that my soul may
bless thee; which he offered and gave to his father, and also wine. And when he had eaten and
drunken a good draught of the wine, he said to Jacob: Come hither to me, my son, and kiss me;
and he went to him and kissed him. Anon as he felt the sweet savour and smell of his clothes,
blessing him he said: Lo! the sweet odour of my son is as the odour of a field full of flowers,
whom our Lord bless. God give to thee of the dew of heaven, and of the fatness of the earth,
abundance of wheat, wine, and oil, and the people serve thee, and the tribes worship thee.
Be thou lord of thy brethren, and the sons of thy mother shall bow down and kneel to thee.
Whosomever curseth thee, be he accursed, and who that blesseth thee, with blessings be he fulfilled.

Unnethe [hardly] had Isaac fulfilled these words and Jacob gone out, when that Esau came with
his meat that he had gotten with hunting, entered in, and offered to his father saying: Arise,
father mine, and eat of the venison that thy son hath ordained for thee, that thy soul may
bless me. Isaac said to him: Who art thou? To whom he answered, I am thy first begotten son
Esau. Isaac then was greatly abashed and astonied, and marvelled more than can be thought credible.
And then he was in a trance, as the master of histories saith, in which he had knowledge that
God would that Jacob should have the blessing. And said to Esau: Who then was he that right
now a little tofore thy coming brought to me venison? And I have eaten of all that he brought
to me ere thou camest. To whom he said: Thy brother germain is come fraudulently, and hath
received thy blessing. Then said Esau: Certainly and justly may his name be called well Jacob,
for on another time tofore this he supplanted me of my patrimony, and now secondly he hath
undernome from me my blessing. And yet then he said to his father: Hast thou not reserved to
me one blessing? Isaac answered: I have ordained him to be thy lord, I have subdued all his
brethren to his servitude. I have stablished him in wheat, wine and oil. And after this what
shall I do to thee, my son? To whom Esau said: Hast thou not, father, yet one blessing? I beseech
thee to bless me. Then with a great sighing and weeping Isaac moved said to him: In the fatness
of the earth and in the dew of heaven shall be thy blessing, thou shalt live in thy sword,
and shalt serve thy brother. Then was Esau woebegone, and hated Jacob for supplanting him of
his blessing that his father had blessed him with, and said in his heart: The days of sorrow
shall come to my father, for I shall slay my brother Jacob. This was told to Rebekah, which
anon sent for Jacob her son, and said to him: Lo! Esau thy brother threateneth to slay thee,
therefore now my son hear my voice and do as I shall counsel. Make thee ready and go to my
brother in Aran, and dwell there with him unto the time that his anger and fury be overpast,
and his indignation ceased, and that he forget such things that thou hast done to him, and
then after that I shall send for thee, and bring thee hither again. And Rebekah went to Isaac
her husband and said: I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth, if Jacob take
to him a wife of that kindred, I will no longer live. Isaac then called Jacob and blessed him
and commanded to him saying: I charge thee in no wise to take a wife of the kindred of Canaan,
but go and walk into Mesopotamia of Syria, unto the house of Bethuel, father of thy mother,
and take to thee there a wife of the daughters of Laban thine uncle. God Almighty bless thee,
and make thee grow and multiply, that thou mayst be increased into tourbes of people, and give
to thee the blessings of Abraham, and to thy seed after thee, that thou mayst possess and own
the land of thy pilgrimage which he granted to thy grandsire. When Isaac had thus said, and
given him leave to go, he departed anon, and went into Mesopotamia of Syria to Laban, son of
Bethuel, brother of Rebekah his mother. Esau seeing that his father had blessed Jacob and sent
him into Mesopotamia of Syria to wed a wife there, and that after his blessing commanded to
him saying: Take thou no wife of the daughters of Canaan; and he obeying his father went into
Syria, proving thereby that his father saw not gladly the daughters of Canaan, he went to Ishmael,
and took him a wife beside them that he had taken tofore, that was Melech, daughter of Ishmael,
son of Abraham.

Then Jacob departed from Beersheba and went forth on his journey toward Aran. When he came
to a certain place after going down of the sun and would rest there all night, he took of the
stones that were there and laid under his head and slept in the same place. And there he saw
in his sleep a ladder standing on the earth, and the upper end thereof touched heaven, and
angels of God ascending and descending upon it, and our Lord in the midst of the ladder saying
to him: I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and of Isaac; the land on which thou sleepest
I shall give to thee and to thy seed, and thy seed shall be as dust of the earth; thou shalt
spread abroad unto the east and unto the west, and north and south, and all the tribes of the
earth shall be blessed in thee and in thy seed. And I shall be thy keeper wheresoever thou
shalt go, and shall bring thee again into this land, and I shall not leave till I have accomplished
all that I have said. When Jacob was awaked from his sleep and dreaming, he said: Verily God
is in this place, and I wist not of it. And he said dreadingly: How terrible is this place,
none other thing is here but the house of God and the gate of heaven. Then Jacob arose early
and took the stone that lay under his head, and raised it for witness, pouring oil thereon,
and called the name of the place Bethel which tofore was called Luza. And there he made a vow
to our Lord, saying: If God be with me and keep me in the way that I walk, and give me bread
to eat, and clothes to cover me, and I may return prosperously into the house of my father,
the Lord shall be my God, and this stone that I have raised in witness, this shall be called
the house of God. And the good of all things that thou givest to me, I shall offer to thee
the tithes and tenth part. Then Jacob went forth into the east, and saw a pit in a field and
three flocks of sheep lying by it, for of that pit were the beasts watered. And the mouth thereof
was shut and closed with a great stone, for the custom was when all the sheep were gathered,
they rolled away the stone, and when they had drunken they laid the stone again at the pit
mouth. And then he said to the shepherds: Brethren, whence are ye? Which answered: Of Aran.
Then he asking them said: Know ye not Laban, son of Nahor? They said: We know him well. How
fareth he, said he, is he all whole? He fareth well, said they; and lo! Rachel his daughter
cometh there with her flock. Then said Jacob: It is yet far to even, it is yet time that the
flocks be led to drink, and after be driven to pasture, which answered: We may not so do till
all the beasts be gathered, and then we remove the stone from the mouth of the pit and water
our beasts. And as they talked, Rachel came with the flock of her father, for she kept that
time the beasts. And when Jacob saw her and knew that she was his erne's [uncle's] daughter,
and that they were his erne's sheep, he removed the stone from the pit's mouth, and when her
sheep had drunken, he kissed her, and weeping he told her that he was brother to her father
and son of Rebekah. Then she hied her and told it to her father, which when he understood that
Jacob, his sister's son, was come, he ran against him and, embracing, kissed him, and led him
into his house. And when he had heard the cause of his journey he said: Thou art my mouth and
my flesh.

And when he had been there the space of a month, he demanded Jacob if he would gladly serve
him because he was his cousin, and what hire and reward he would have. He had two daughters,
the more was named Leah, and the less was called Rachel, but Leah was blear-eyed, and Rachel
was fair of visage and well-favored, whom Jacob loved, and said: I shall serve thee for Rachel
thy younger daughter seven years. Laban answered: It is better that I give her to thee than
to a strange man; dwell and abide with me, and thou shalt have her. And so Jacob served him
for Rachel seven years, and him thought it but a little while, because of the great love that
he had to her. And at the end of seven years, Jacob said to Laban: Give to me my wife, for
the time is come that I should have her. Then Laban called all his friends and made a feast
for the wedding, and at night he brought in Leah, the more daughter, and delivered to her an
handmaid named Zilpah. Then Jacob, when the morning came, saw that it was Leah. He said to
Laban her father: What hast thou done? Have I not served thee for Rachel, why hast thou brought
Leah to me? Laban answered: It is not the usage ne custom of our country to give the younger
first to be wedded, but fulfil and make an end of this marriage this week, and then shall I
give to thee Rachel my daughter for other seven years that thou shalt serve to me. Jacob agreed
gladly, and when that week was passed, he wedded Rachel to his wife. To whom Laban her father
gave an handmaid named Bilhah. Nevertheless when the wedding of the younger was finished, because
of the great love that he had to her, him thought that the other seven years were but short.

[And Jacob while he served Laban had these sons: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Dan, Naphtali,
Gad, Asher, Issachar, Zebulon, Joseph.] When Joseph was born, Jacob said to Laban his wives'
father: Give me leave to depart that I may go in to my country and my land; give to me my wives
and children for whom I have served thee that I may go hence. Thou knowest what service I have
served thee. Laban said to him: I have founden grace in thy sight; I know it by experience
that God hath blessed me for thee; I have ordained the reward that I shall give to thee. Then
Jacob answered: Thou knowest how I have served thee, and how much thy possession was in my
hands. Thou hadst but little when I came to thee, and now thou art rich, God hath blessed thee
at mine entry; it is now right that I provide somewhat toward mine house. Laban said: What
shall I give to thee? Jacob answered: I will nothing but that thou do that I demand. I shall
yet feed and keep thy beasts, and depart asunder all the sheep of divers colors. And all that
ever shall be of divers colors and spotty, as well in sheep as in goats, let me have them for
my reward and meed, and Laban granted thereto. Then at time of departing, Laban took them of
two colors, and Jacob them that were of one color. Thus was Jacob made much rich out of measure,
and had many flocks, and servants both men and women, camels and asses.

After that Jacob had heard Laban's sons say: Jacob hath taken all that was our father's from
him, and of his faculty is made rich, he was abashed and understood well by Laban's looking
that he was not so friendly to himward as he had been tofore. And also our Lord said to him
that he should return into the land of his fathers and to his generation, and that he would
be with him. He then called Rachel and Leah into the field whereas he fed his flocks, and said
to them: I see well by your father's visage that he is not toward me as he was yesterday or
that other day; forsooth the God of my father was with me, and ye know well how I have served
your father with all my might and strength, but he hath deceived me, and hath changed mine
hire and meed ten times, and yet our Lord hath not suffered him to grieve me. When he said
the beasts of party color should be mine, then all the ewes brought forth lambs of variable
colors. And when he said the contrary they brought forth all white. God hath taken the substance
of your father and hath given it to me. And now God hath commanded me to depart, wherefore
make you ready and let us depart hence. Then answered Rachel and Leah: Shall we have nothing
else of our father's faculty and of the heritage of his house? Shall he repute us as strangers,
and he hath eaten and sold our goods? Sith God hath taken the goods of our father and hath
given it to us and to our children, wherefore all that God commanded to thee, do it.

Jacob arose and set his children and his wives upon his camels, and went his way and took all
his substance, and flocks, and all that he had gotten in Mesopotamia and went toward his father
Isaac into the land of Canaan. That time was Laban gone to shear his sheep, and Rachel stole
away the idols of her father. Jacob would not let Laban know of his departing, and when he
was departed with all that longed to him of right, he came to the mount of Gilead. It was told
to Laban, the third day after, that Jacob was fled and gone, who anon took his brethren and
pursued him by the space of seven days and overtook him in the mount of Gilead. He saw our
Lord in his sleep saying to him: Beware that thou speak not angrily ne hard words to Jacob.
That time Jacob had set his tabernacle in the hill, and when he came thither with his brethren,
he said to Jacob: Why hast thou done thus to me to take away my daughters as prisoners taken
by sword? Why fleddest thou from me and wouldst not let me have knowledge thereof? Thou hast
not suffered me to kiss my sons and daughters, thou hast done follily. Now may I do thee harm
and evil, but the God of thy father said to me yesterday: Beware that thou speak no hard words
against Jacob. Thou desirest to go to the house of thy father, why hast thou stolen my gods?
Jacob answered: That I departed thee not knowing, I dreaded that violently thou wouldst have
taken from me thy daughters. And where thou reprovest me of theft, whosoever have stolen thy
gods let him be slain tofore our brethren. Seek and what thou findest that is thine, take with
thee.

He, saying this, knew not that Rachel had stolen her father's gods. Then Laban entered the
tabernacle of Jacob and Leah, and sought and found nothing. And when he came into the tabernacle
of Rachel, she hied her and hid the idols under the litter of her camel and sat upon it. And
he sought and found nought. Then said Rachel: Let not my lord be wroth for I may not arise
to thee, for sickness is fallen to me, and so she deceived her father. Then Jacob, being angry
and grudging, said to Laban: What is my trespass and what have I sinned to thee that thou hast
pursued me, and hast searched everything? What hast thou now founden of all the substance of
thy house? Lay it forth tofore my brethren and thy brethren, that they judge between me and
thee. I have served thee twenty years and have been with thee, thy sheep and thy goats were
never barren. I have eaten no wethers of thy flock, nor beast hath destroyed none. I shall
make all good what was stolen. I prayed therefore day and night, I labored both in heat and
in cold, sleep fled from mine eyes. Thus I served thee in thy house twenty years, fourteen
for thy daughters and six for thy flocks. Thou hast changed mine hire and reward ten times.
But if the God of my father Abraham and the dread of Isaac had been with me, haply thou wouldst
now have left me naked. Our Lord God hath beholden mine affliction and the labor of mine hands
and reproved thee yesterday. Laban answered to him: My daughters and sons, and thy flocks,
and all that thou beholdest are thine, what may I do to my sons and nephews? Let us now be
friends, and make we a fast league and confederacy together. Then Jacob raised a stone, and
raised it in token of friendship and peace, and so they ate together in friendship, and sware
each to other to abide in love ever after. And after this Laban arose in the night, and kissed
his daughters and sons, and blessed them, and returned into his country.

Jacob went forth in his journey that he had taken. Angels of God met him, which when he saw,
he said: These be the castles of God, and called that place Mahanaim. He sent messengers tofore
him to Esau his brother in the land of Seir, in the land of Edom, and bade them say thus to
Esau: This saith thy brother Jacob: I have dwelled with Laban unto this day, I have oxen and
asses, servants both men and women. I send now a legation unto my lord that I may find grace
in his sight. These messengers returned to Jacob and said: We came to Esau thy brother, and
lo! he cometh for to meet thee with four hundred men. Jacob was sore afraid then, and divided
his company into twain turmes [two troops], saying: If Esau come to that one and destroy that,
that other shall yet be saved. I beseech the Lord keep me from the hands of my brother Esau,
for I fear him greatly lest he come and smite down the mother with the sons. Thou hast said
that thou shouldest do well to me and shouldest spread my seed like unto the gravel of the
sea, and that it may not be numbered for multitude. Then when he had slept that night, he ordained
gifts for to send to his brother, goats two hundred, kids twenty, sheep two hundred, and rams
twenty; forty kine and twenty bulls, twenty asses and ten foals of them. And he sent by his
servants all these beasts; and bade them say that Jacob his servant sent to him this present
and that he followeth after. And Jacob thought to please him with gifts.

The night following, him thought a man wrestled with him all that night till the morning, and
when he saw he might not overcome him, he hurted the sinew of his thigh that he halted thereof,
and said to him: Let me go and leave me, for it is in the morning. Then Jacob answered: I shall
not leave thee but if thou bless me. He said to him: What is thy name? he answered: Jacob.
Then he said: Nay, said he, thy name shall no more be called Jacob, but Israel, for if thou
hast been strong against God, how much more shalt thou prevail against men? Then Jacob said
to him: What is thy name? tell me. He answered, Why demandest thou my name, which is marvellous?
And he blessed him in the same place. Jacob called the name of that same place Penuel, saying:
I have seen our Lord face to face, and my soul is made safe. And anon as he was past Penuel
the sun arose. He halted on his foot, and therefore the children of Israel eat no sinews because
it dried in the thigh of Jacob. Then Jacob lifting up his eyes saw Esau coming and four hundred
men with him, and divided the sons of Leah and of Rachel, and of both their handmaidens, and
set each handmaid and their children tofore in the first place, Leah and her sons in the second,
and Rachel and Joseph all behind. And he going tofore kneeled down to ground and, worshipping
his brother, approached him. Esau ran for to meet with his brother, and embraced him, straining
his neck, and weeping kissed him, and he looked forth and saw the women and their children,
and said: What been these and to whom longen they? Jacob answered: They be children which God
hath given to me thy servant and his handmaidens, and their children approached and kneeled
down, and Leah with her children also worshipped him, and last of all Joseph and Rachel worshipped
him. Then said Esau: Whose been these turmes [troops] which I have met? Jacob answered: I have
sent them to thee, my lord, unto the end that I may stand in thy grace. Esau said: I have many
myself, keep these and let them be thine. Nay, said Jacob, I pray thee to take this gift which
God hath sent me that I may find grace in thy sight, for meseemeth I see thy visage like the
visage of God; and therefore be thou to me merciful, and take this blessing of me. Unnethe
[hardly] by compelling he taking it, said: Let us go together, I shall accompany thee and be
fellow of thy journey. Then said Jacob: Thou knowest well, my lord, that I have young children
and tender, and sheep and oxen, which, if I over-labored, should die all in a day, wherefore
please it you, my lord, to go tofore, and I shall follow as I may with my children and beasts.
Esau answered: I pray thee then let my fellows abide and accompany thee, whatsoever need thou
have. Jacob said: It is no need, I need no more but one, that I may stand in thy favor, my
lord. And Esau returned then the same way and journey that he came into Seir. And Jacob came
to Succoth and builded there an house, and from thence he went in to Shalem, the town of Shechem
which is in the land of Canaan, and bought there a part of a field, in which he fixed his tabernacles,
of the sons of Hamor father of Shechem for an hundred lambs. And there he raised an altar,
and worshipped upon it the strongest God of Israel.

After this our Lord appeared to Jacob and said: Arise and go up to Bethel and dwell there,
and make there an altar to the Lord that appeared to thee in the way when thou fleddest from
thy brother Esau. Jacob then called all them of his house and said: Cast away from you all
your strange gods that be among you, and make you clean and change your clothes; arise and
let us go into Bethel, and make we there an altar to our Lord that heard me in the day of my
tribulation, and was fellow of my journey. Then they gave to him all their strange gods, and
the gold that hung on their ears, and he dalf a pit behind the city of Shechem and threw them
therein. And when they departed, all the countries thereabout were afraid and durst not pursue
them. Then Jacob came to a place called Luz which is in the land of Canaan, and all the people
with him, which otherwise is called Bethel. He edified there an altar to our Lord, and named
that place the House of God. Our Lord appeared to him in that place when he fled from his brother
Esau. That same time died Deborah, the nurse of Rebekah, and was buried at the root of Bethel
under an oak. Our Lord appeared again to Jacob after that he was returned from Mesopotamia
of Syria, and was come into Bethel, and blessed him saying: Thou shalt no more be called Jacob
but Israel shall be thy name, and called him Israel, and said to him: I am God Almighty, grow
and multiply, folks and peoples of nations shall come of thee, kings shall come of thy loins.
The land that I gave to Abraham and Isaac I shall give to thee and thy seed; and vanished from him.

He then raised a stone for a remembrance in the place where God spake to him, and anointed
it with oil, calling the name of the place Bethel. He went thence and came in veer time unto
the land that goeth to Ephrath, in which place Rachel bare a son. And the death drawing near,
she named him Benoni, which is as much to say as the son of my sorrow. Jacob went thence and
came to Isaac his father into Mamre the city of Arbah, that is Hebron, in which dwelled Abraham
and Isaac. And all the days of Isaac were complete, which were an hundred and fourscore years,
and he consumed and died in good mind, and Esau and Jacob his sons buried him.

Thus endeth the history of Isaac and his two sons Esau and Jacob.

HERE BEGINNETH THE HISTORY OF JOSEPH AND HIS BRETHREN

Which is read the Third Sunday in Lent

Joseph when he was sixteen years old began to keep and feed the flock with his brethren, he
being yet a child, and was accompanied with the sons of Bilhah and Zilpah, wives of his father.
Joseph complained on his brethren, and accused them to their father of the most evil sin. Israel
loved Joseph above all his sons for as much as he had gotten him in his old age, and made for
him a motley coat. His brethren then seeing that he was beloved of his father more than they
were, hated him and might not speak to him a peaceable word. It happed on a time that Joseph
dreamed, and saw a sweven [dream], and told it to his brethren, which caused them to hate him
yet more. Joseph said to his brethren: Hear ye my dream that I had; methought that we bound
sheaves in the field, and my sheaf stood up and yours standing round about and worshipped my
sheaf. His brethren answered: Shalt thou be our king and shall we be subject and obey thy commandment?
Therefore this cause of dreams and of these words ministered the more fume of hate and envy.
Joseph saw another sweven and told to his father and brethren: Methought I saw in my sleep
the sun, the moon, and eleven stars worship me. Which when his father and his brethren had
heard, the father blamed him, and said: What may betoken this dream that thou sawest? Trowest
thou that I, thy mother and thy brethren, shall worship thee upon the earth? His brethren had
great envy hereat.

The father thought and considered a thing secretly in himself. On a time when his brethren
kept their flocks of sheep in Shechem, Israel said to Joseph: Thy brethren feed their sheep
in Shechem, come and I shall send thee to them, which answered: I am ready, and he said: Go
and see if all things be well and prosperous at thy brethren and beasts, and come again and
tell me what they do. He went from the vale of Hebron and came unto Shechem. There a man found
him erring in the field, and asked him what he sought, and he answered: I seek my brethren,
tell me where they feed their flocks. The man said to him: They been departed from this place,
I heard them say Let us go in to Dothan. Which then when his brethren saw him come from far,
tofore he approached to them they thought to slay him, and spake together saying: Lo! see the
dreamer cometh. Come and let us slay him and put him into this old cistern. And we shall say
that some wild evil beast hath devoured him, and then shall appear what his dreams shall profit
him. Reuben hearing this, thought for to deliver him from their hands, and said: Let us not
slay him ne shed his blood, but keep your hands undefouled. This he said, willing to keep him
from their hands and render him again to his father. Anon then as he came they took off his
motley coat, and set him into an old cistern that had no water. As they sat for to eat bread
they saw Ishmaelites coming from Gilead, and their camels bringing spices and raisins into
Egypt. Then said Judah to his brethren: What should it profit us if we slew our brother and
shed his blood? It is better that he be sold to Ishmaelites and our hands be not defouled,
he is our own brother and our flesh. His brethren agreed to his words, and drew him out of
the cistern, and sold him to the Midianitish merchants passing forth by to Ishmaelites for
thirty pieces of silver, which led him into Egypt. At this time when he was sold Reuben was
not there, but was in another field with his beasts. And when he returned and came unto the
cistern and found not Joseph, he tare his clothes for sorrow, and came to his brethren and
said: The child is not yonder, whither shall I go to seek him? He had supposed his brethren
had slain him in his absence. They told him what they had done, and took his coat, and besprinkled
it with the blood of a kid which they slew, and sent it to their father saying: See whether
this be the coat of thy son or not, this we have found. Which anon as the father saw it said:
This is my son's coat, an evil wild beast hath devoured him, some beast hath eaten him; and
rent his clothes and did on him a sackcloth, bewailing and sorrowing his son a long time. All
his sons gathered them, together for to comfort their father and assuage his sorrow, but he
would take no comfort, but said: I shall descend to my son into hell for to bewail him there.
And thus, he abiding in sorrow, the Midianites carried Joseph into Egypt, and sold him to Potiphar,
eunuch of Pharaoh, master of his knights.

Thus was Joseph led into Egypt, and Potiphar, prince of the host of Pharaoh, an Egyptian, bought
him of the hands of Ishmaelites. Our Lord God was always with Joseph, and he was wise, ready,
and prosperous in all manner of things. He dwelled in his lord's house and pleased so well
his lord, that he stood in his grace that he made him upperest and above all other, and betook
him the rule and governance of all his house, which well and wisely governed the household
and all that he had charge of. Our Lord blessed the house of Egypt for Joseph's sake, and multiplied
as well in beasts as in fields all his substance. Joseph was fair of visage and well favored.

After many days the lady, his master's wife, beheld and cast her eyes on Joseph, and tempted
him to sin. He refused that, and would not attend ne listen to her words, ne would not consent
to so sinful a work, and said to her: Lo! hath not my lord delivered to me all that he hath
in his house? and he knoweth not what he hath, and there is nothing therein but that it is
in my power and at my commandment except thee, which art his wife. How may I do this evil and
sin to my lord? Such manner, or semblable words, he said daily to her, and the woman was the
more desirous and grievous to the young man, and he always forsook and refused the sin. And
when the lady saw that she was refused, she cried and called the men of the house and accused
Joseph falsely. When the lord heard this, anon he gave faith and believed his wife, and being
sore wroth, set Joseph in prison where the prisoners of the king were kept and he was there
fast set in. Our Lord God was with Joseph, and had mercy on him, and made him in the favor
and grace of the chief keeper of the prison, in so much that he delivered to Joseph the keeping
of all the prisoners, and what he did was done, and the chief jailer was pleased with all.
Our Lord was with him and directed all his works.

After this it fell so that two officers of the king's trespassed unto their lord, wherefore
he was wroth with them and commanded them to the prison whereas Joseph was. That one of them
was the butler, and that other the baker; and the keeper betook them to Joseph to keep, and
he served them. After a while that they had been in prison they both saw on one night a dream
of which they were astoned and abashed, and when Joseph was come in to serve them, and saw
them heavy, he demanded them why they were heavier than they were wont to be, which answered:
We have dreamed and there is none to interpret it to us. Joseph said to them: Suppose ye that
God may not give me grace to interpret it? Tell to me what ye saw in your sleep. Then the butler
told first and said: Methought I saw a vine had three branches, and after they had flowered
the grapes were ripe, and then I took the cup of Pharaoh in my hand, and took the grapes and
wrang out of them wine into the cup that I held, and presented it to Pharaoh to drink. Joseph
answered: The three branches be yet three days, after which Pharaoh shall remember thy service
and shall restore thee into thy foremost office and gree, for to serve him as thou wert wont
to do. Then I pray thee to remember me when thou art at thine above, and be to me so merciful
to sue unto Pharaoh that he take me out of this prison, for I was stolen out of the land of
Hebrews and am innocently set here in prison. Then the master baker saw that he had wisely
interpreted the butler's dream; he said: Methought that I had three baskets of meat upon my
head, and in that one basket that was highest methought I bare all the meat of the bakehouse
and birds came and ate of it. Joseph answered: This is the interpretation of the dream; the
three baskets be three days yet to come, after which Pharaoh shall smite off thy head and shall
hang thee on the cross, and the birds shall tear thy flesh. And the third day after this Pharaoh
made a great feast unto his children, and remembered him, among the meals, on the master butler
and the master baker. He restored his butler unto his office, and to serve him of the cup,
and that other was hanged, that the truth of the interpreter was believed and proved. Notwithstanding
the master butler in his wealth forgat Joseph his interpreter.

Two years after Pharaoh saw in his sleep a dream. Him thought he stood upon the river, from
which he saw seven oxen ascend to the land which were fair and right fat, and were fed in a
fat pasture; he saw other seven come out of the river, poor and lean, and were fed in places
plenteous and burgeoning. These devoured the other that were so fat and fair. Herewith he started
out of his sleep, and after slept again, and saw another dream. He saw seven ears of corn standing
on one stalk, full and fair of corns, and as many other ears void and smitten with drought,
which devoured the beauty of the first seven. In the morning Pharaoh awoke and was greatly
afeard of these dreams, and sent for all conjectors and diviners of Egypt, and wise men; and
when they were gathered he told to them his dream, and there was none that could interpret
it. Then at last the master butler, remembering Joseph, said: I knowledge my sin, on a time
the king being wroth with his servants, sent me and the master of the bakers into prison, where
we in one night dreamed both prodigies of things coming. And there was a child of the Hebrews,
servant to the jailer, to whom we told our dreams and he expounded them to us and said what
should happen; I am restored to mine office and that other is hanged on the cross.

Anon, by the king's commandment, Joseph was taken out of prison and shaved, bathed, and changed
his clothes, and brought tofore Pharaoh, to whom he said: I saw a dream which I have showed
unto wise men, and there is none that can tell me the interpretation thereof. To whom Joseph
answered: God shall answer by me things prosperous to Pharaoh. Then Pharaoh told to him his
dreams, like as is tofore written, of the seven fat oxen and seven lean, and how the lean devoured
the fat, and in likewise of the ears. Joseph answered: The king's dreams are one thing which
God hath showed to Pharaoh. The seven fat oxen and the seven ears full, betoken seven years
to come of great plenty and commodious, and the seven lean oxen, and the seven void ears smitten
with drought, betoken seven years after them of great hunger and scarcity. Lo! there shall
come first seven years of great fertility and plenty in all the land of Egypt, after whom shall
follow other seven years of so great sterility, barrenness, and scarcity, that the abundance
of the first shall be all forgotten. The great hunger of these latter years shall consume all
the plenty of the first years. The latter dream pertaineth to the same, because God would that
it should be fulfilled. Now therefore let the king provide for a man that is wise and witty,
that may command and ordain provosts and officers in all places of the realm, that they gather
into garners and barns the fifth part of all the corn and fruits that shall grow these first
seven plenteous years that be to come, and that all this wheat may be kept in barns and garners
in towns and villages, that it may be made ready against the coming of the seven scarce years
that shall oppress by hunger all Egypt, to the end that the people be not enfamined. This counsel
pleased much to Pharaoh and to all his ministers. Then Pharaoh said to his servants: Where
should we find such a man as this is, which is fulfilled with the spirit of God? And then he
said to Joseph: Forasmuch as God hath showed to thee all that thou hast spoken, trowest thou
that we might find any wiser than thou or like to thee? Thou shalt be upperest of my house,
and to the commandment of thy mouth all people shall obey. I only shall go tofore thee and
sit but one seat above thee. Yet said Pharaoh to Joseph: Lo! I have ordained thee above and
master upon all the land of Egypt. He took a ring from his hand and gave it into his hand,
and clad him with a double stole furred with bise; and a golden collar he put about his neck,
and made him to ascend upon his chair; the second trumpet crying that all men should kneel
tofore him, and that they should know him upperest provost of all the land of Egypt. Then said
the king of Egypt to Joseph: I am Pharaoh, without thy commandment shall no man move hand nor
foot in all the land of Egypt. He changed his name and called him in the tongue of Egypt: The
saviour of the world. He gave to him a wife named Asenath, daughter of Poti-phera, priest of
Eliopoleos. And he went round about all the region of Egypt. The plenteousness and fertility
of the seven years came, and sheaves and shocks of corn were brought in to the barns; all the
abundance of fruits was laid in every town. There was so great plenty of wheat that it might
be compared to the gravel of the sea, and the plenty thereof exceedeth measure. Joseph had
two sons by his wife ere the famine and hunger came, which Asenath the priest's daughter brought
forth, of whom he called the name of the first Manasseh, saying: God hath made me to forget
all my labors, and the house of my father hath forgotten me. He called the name of the second
son Ephraim, saying: God hath made me to grow in the land of my poverty.

Then passed the seven years of plenty and fertility that were in Egypt, and the seven years
of scarcity and hunger began to come, which Joseph had spoken of tofore, and hunger began to
wax and grow in the universal world; also in all the land of Egypt was hunger and scarcity.
And when the people hungered they cried to Pharaoh asking meat, to whom he answered: Go ye
to Joseph, and whatsoever he saith to you do ye. Daily grew and increased the hunger in all
the land. Then Joseph opened the barns and garners, and sold corn to the Egyptians, for the
hunger oppressed them sore. All provinces came into Egypt for to buy meat to them, and to eschew
the hunger.

Jacob, father unto Joseph, heard tell that corn and victuals were sold in Egypt, and said to
his sons: Why be ye negligent? I have heard say that corn is sold in Egypt; go ye thither and
buy for us that is necessary and behoveful, that we may live, and consume not for need. Then
the ten brethren of Joseph descended into Egypt for to buy wheat, and Benjamin was left at
home with the father, because whatsoever happed to the brethren in their journey. Then they
entered into the land of Egypt with others for to buy corn. There was great famine in the land
of Canaan, and Joseph was prince in the land of Egypt, also by his commandment wheat was sold
unto the people. Then when his brethren were come and had adored and worshipped him, he anon
knew them, and spake to them, as to strangers, hard words, demanding them saying: Whence be
ye? Which answered: Of the land of Canaan, and come hither to buy that is necessary for us.
And though he knew his brethren, yet was he unknown of them. He remembered the dreams that
he sometime had seen, and told them and said: Ye be spies and be come hither for to espy the
weakest places of this land, which said to him: It is not so, my lord, but we thy servants
be come for to buy victuals. We be all sons to one man, we come peaceably, ne we thy servants
think ne imagine none evil. To whom he answered: It is all otherwise, ye be come for to espy
and consider the secretest places of this realm. Then they said: We are twelve brethren, thy
servants, sons of one man in the land of Canaan, the youngest is at home with our father, and
that other is dead. That is, said he, that I said; ye be spies. Now I have of you the experience.
I swear to you by the health of Pharaoh ye shall not depart till that your youngest brother
come. Send ye one of you for him to bring him hither. Ye shall abide in fetters in prison till
the truth be proved whether the things that ye have said be true or false, else, by the health
of Pharaoh, ye be spies. And delivered them to be kept three days. The third day they were
brought out of prison, to whom he said: I dread God, if ye be peaceable as ye say, do as ye
have said, and ye shall live. Let one brother be bounden in prison, and go ye your way, and
lead home the wheat that ye have bought into your houses, and bring to me with you your youngest
brother, that I may prove your words, that ye die not. They did as he said, and spake together:
We be worthy and well deserved to suffer this, for we have sinned in our brother, seeing his
anguish when he prayed us and we heard him not, therefore this tribulation is fallen upon us.
Of whom Reuben said: Said not I to you, in no wise sin not ye in the child, and ye would not
hear me? Now his blood is wroken. They knew not that Joseph understood them, forasmuch as he
spake alway to them by an interpreter. Then Joseph turned him a little and wept. After he returned
to them, and took Simeon in their presence and bound him, and sent him to prison, and commanded
to his ministers to fill their sacks with wheat, and to put each man's money in their sacks,
and above that to give them meat to spend in their way; which did so. And they took their wheat
and laid it on their asses and departed on their way. After, one of them, on the way, opened
his sack for to give his beast meat, and found his money in the mouth of his sack and said
to his brethren: My money is given to me again, lo! I have found it in my sack. And they were
all astonied: What is this that God hath done to us? Then they came home to their father in
the land of Canaan and told to him all things that was fallen to them, saying: The lord of
the country hath spoken hard to us and had supposed that we been spies of that province, to
whom we answered that, we were peaceable people ne were no such spies, and that we were twelve
sons gotten of one father, one is dead and the youngest is with our father in the land of Canaan.
Which then said to us: Now shall I prove whether ye be peaceable or no. Ye shall leave here
one brother with me, and lead home that is necessary for you, and go your way and see that
ye bring with you your youngest brother that I may know that ye be none espies and that ye
may receive this brother that I hold in prison, and then forthon what that ye will buy ye shall
have license. And this said, each of them poured out the wheat, and every man found his money
bounden in the mouth of every sack. Then said Jacob their father: Ye have made me without children.
Joseph is gone and lost, Simeon is bounden in prison, and Benjamin ye will take away from me,
on me come all these evils. To Reuben answered: Slay my two sons if I bring him not again to
thee; deliver him to me in my hand, and I shall restore him again to thee. The father said:
My son shall not go with you, his brother is dead and he is left now alone, if any adversity
should hap to him in the way that ye go into, ye shall lead my old hairs with sorrow to hell.

In the meanwhile famine and hunger oppressed all the land greatly. And when the corn that they
brought from Egypt was consumed, Jacob said to his sons: Return ye into Egypt and buy for us
some meat, that we may live. Judah answered: That man said to us, under swearing of great oaths,
that: Ye shall not see my face ne come into my presence, but if ye bring your youngest brother
with you. Therefore if thou wilt send him with us, we shall go together and shall buy for us
that shall be necessary, and if thou wilt not we shall not go. The man said as we oft have
said to thee, that if we bring him not we shall not see his visage. Israel said to them: This
have ye done into my misery, that ye told to him that ye had another brother. And they answered:
The man demanded of us by order our progeny, if our father lived, if we had any brother. And
we answered him consequently after that he demanded, we wist not what he would say, ne that
he said bring your brother with you. Send the child with us that we may go forth and live,
and that we ne our children die not for hunger. I shall receive thy son, and require him of
my hand. If I lead him not thither and bring him again, I shall be guilty to thee of the sin
ever after. If there had been no delay of this, we had been there and come again by this time.

Then Israel their father said to them: If it be so necessary as ye say, do ye as ye will; take
with you of the best fruits of this land in your vessels, and give ye and present to that man
gifts, a little raisins, and honey, storax, stacten, terebinthe, and dates, and bear with you
double money, and also the same money that ye found in your sacks, lest there be any error
therefore; and take with you Benjamin, your brother. My God, that is almighty, make him pleasant
unto you, and that ye may return in safety with this your brother and him also that he holdeth
in prison; I shall be as a man barren therewhiles, without children. Then the brethren took
the gifts and double money and Benjamin, and went forth into Egypt, and came and stood tofore
Joseph; whom when he had seen, and Benjamin, he commanded to the steward of his house that
he should do slay sheep and calves and make a feast, for these brethren shall dine with me
this day. He did as he was commanded and brought the men unto his lord's house.

Then were they all afeard and said softly together: Because of the money that we had in our
sacks we be brought in that he take us with the default, and shall by violence bring us and
our asses into servitude. Wherefore they said to the steward of the house, in the gate of the
house ere they entered, saying: We pray thee to hear us: the last time that we came to buy
victual, which when we had bought and departed, and were on our way, for to give our beasts
meat we opened our sacks, and we found in the mouth of our sacks our money that we had paid,
which we now bring again of the same weight, and we have more other for to buy to us that shall
be necessary. It is not in our conscience to have it, we weet never who put it in our sacks.
He answered to him: Peace be among you, fear ye nothing, the God of your father hath given
to you the treasure that ye found in your sacks, for the money that ye paid to me I have it
ready. And then he brought in Simeon to them, and brought them into the house, and washed their
feet, and gave meat to their asses. They made ready and ordained their gifts and presents against
the coming of Joseph. They heard say that they should dine and eat there.

Then Joseph entered into the house, and they offered to him the gifts, holding them in their
hands, and worshipped him falling down to the ground. And he debonairly saluted them and demanded
them, saying: Is your father in good health of whom ye told me, liveth he yet? They answered:
Thy servant our father is in good health and liveth yet, and kneeled down and worshipped him.
Then, said he, casting his eyes on his brother Benjamin that was of one mother, and said: Is
this your young brother of whom ye told me? And also said, God be merciful to thee, my son;
he hied him from themward, for he was moved in all his spirits and wept on his brother, and
went into his bedchamber. After this he washed his visage and came out making good countenance
and commanded to set bread on the board, and after that he set his brethren in order, each
after their age, and ate together, and Joseph sat and ate with the Egyptians. For it was not
lawful to the Egyptians to eat with the Hebrews. And each of them were well served, but Benjamin
had the best part, and they ate and drank so much that they were drunken.

Then Joseph commanded the steward of his house to fill their sacks with wheat as much as they
might receive, and the money of the wheat put it into every man's sack, and take my cup of
silver, and the money of the youngest, and put that in his sack. And all this was done. And
on the morn betimes they were suffered to depart with their asses. And when they were gone
out of the town and a little on their way, then Joseph said to his steward: Make thee ready
and ride after, and say to them: Why have ye done evil for good? The cup that my lord is accustomed
to drink in, ye have stolen, ye might not do a worse thing. He did as Joseph had commanded
and overtook them, and said to them all by order like as he had charge, which answered: Why
saith your lord so, and doth to us his servants such letting? The money that we found in our
sacks we brought again to thee from the land of Canaan, and how may it follow that we should
steal any gold or silver from the house of thy lord? Look! at whom it be found of us all thy
servants, let him die. Which said to them: Be it after your sentence, at whom that it ever
be found he shall be my servant and the others shall go free and be not guilty. Then he hied
and set down all their sacks, beginning at the oldest unto the youngest, and at last found
the cup in the mouth of the sack of Benjamin. Then they all for sorrow cut and rent their clothes,
and laded their asses again, and returned all into the town again. Then Judah entered first
with his brethren unto Joseph and all they together fell down platte to the ground. To whom
Joseph said: Why have ye done thus? Know not ye that there is no man like to me in the science
of knowledge? To whom Judah answered: What shall we answer to thee, my lord; or what shall
we speak or rightfully desire? God hath found and remembered the iniquity of us thy servants,
for we be all thy servants, yea, we and he at whom the cup was found. Joseph answered: God
forbid that I should so do, whosoever stole the cup shall be my servant, and go ye your way,
for ye shall be free and go to your father. Then Judah approached near him and spake with a
hardy cheer to him and said: I beseech thee my lord to hear me thy servant that I may say to
thine audience a word, and that thou wilt not be wroth to thy servant. Thou art next to Pharaoh;
my lord, thou demandedst first of us thy servants: Have ye a father or brother? And we answered
to thee, my lord: Our father is an old man and we have a brother a young child which was born
to him in his old age, whose brother of the same mother is dead, and he is an only son whom
the father loveth tenderly. Thou saidst to us thy servants: Bring him hither to me that I may
see. We told to thee my lord for truth: our father may not forego the child, if he forego him
certainly he shall die. And thou saidst to us, thy servants: But if ye bring him not with you,
ye shall no more see my visage. Then when we came to our father and told him all these things,
and our father bade us to return and buy more corn. To whom we said: We may not go thither
but if our youngest brother go with us, for if he be absent we dare not approach, ne come to
the presence of the man; and he answered to us: Ye know well that my wife brought to me forth
but two sons, that one went out, and ye said that wild beasts had devoured him, and yet I heard
never of him ne he appeared not. If now ye should take this my son and anything happened to
him in the way ye should bring my hoar hair with sorrow to hell. Therefore if I should come
home to my father and bring not the child with me, sith the soul and health of my father dependeth
of this child, and see that he is not come with us, he shall die and we thy servants should
lead his old age with wailing and sorrow to hell. I myself shall be thy proper servant which
have received him upon my faith and have promised for him, saying to my father: If I bring
him not again I shall be guilty of the sin to my father ever after. I shall abide and continue
thy servant for the child in the ministry and service of thee my lord. I may not depart, the
child being absent, lest I be witness of the sorrow that my father shall take. Wherefore I
beseech thee to suffer this child to go to his father and receive me into thy service. Thus
said Judah, with much more; as Josephus, Antiquitatum, rehearseth more piteously, and saith
moreover that the cause why he did do hide the cup in Benjamin's sack, was to know whether
they loved Benjamin or hated him as they did him, what time they sold him to the Ishmaelites.

Then this request made, Joseph might no longer forbear, but commanded them that stood by to
withdraw them, and when all men were gone out sauf he and his brethren, he began to say to
them weeping: I am Joseph your brother, liveth yet my father? The brethren were so afeard that
they could not speak ne answer to him. Then he debonairly said to them: Come hither to me;
and when they came near him he said: I am Joseph your brother that ye sold into Egypt; be ye
not afeard nor think not hard unto you that ye sold me into these regions. God hath sent me
tofore you into Egypt for your health. It is two years since the famine began, and yet been
five years to come in which men may not ear, sow, ne reap. God hath sent me tofore you that
ye should be reserved on the earth, and that ye may have meat to live by. It is not by your
counsel that I was sent hither, but by the will of God, which hath ordained me father of Pharaoh,
and lord of all his house, and prince in all the land of Egypt. Hie you, and go to my father,
and say ye to him: This word sendeth thee thy son Joseph: God hath made me lord of the universal
land of Egypt, come to me lest thou die, and thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen. Thou shalt
be next me, thou and thy sons and the sons of thy sons, and I shall feed thy sheep, thy beasts
and all that thou hast in possession. Yet rest five year to come of famine, therefore come
lest thou perish, thy house, and all that thou owest. Lo! your eyes and the eyes of my brother
Benjamin see that my mouth speaketh these words to you. Show ye to my father all my glory and
all that ye have seen in Egypt. Hie ye and bring him to me. This said, he embraced his brother
Benjamin about his neck and wept upon each of them. After this they durst better speak to him.
Anon it was told and known all about in the King's hall that Joseph's brethren were come. And
Pharaoh was joyful and glad thereof and all his household. And Pharaoh said to Joseph that
he should say to his brethren: Lade ye your beasts and go into the land of Canaan, and bring
from thence your father and kindred, and come to me, and I shall give you all the goods of
Egypt, that ye may eat the marrow of the earth. Command ye also that they take carriages of
this land of Egypt, for the carriage of their children and wives, and say to them: Take your
father and come as soon as ye may, and leave nothing behind you, for all the best things shall
be yours. The sons of Israel did as they were commanded. To whom Joseph gave carriages after
the commandment of Pharaoh, and meat to eat by the way. He commanded to give to every each
two garments. To Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, with five garments of the
best, and also he sent clothing to his father, adding to them ten asses which were laden with
all riches of Egypt, and as many asses laden and bearing bread and victual to spend by the
way. And thus he let his brethren depart from him saying: Be ye not wroth in the way. Then
they thus departing came into the land of Canaan to their father, and showed all this to their
father, and said: Joseph thy son liveth and he lordeth in all the land of Egypt.

When Jacob heard this he awoke as a man had been awaked suddenly out of his sleep, yet nevertheless
he believed them not, and they told to him all the order of the matter. When he saw the carriage
and all that he had sent, his spirit revived and said: It sufficeth to me if Joseph my son
yet live, I shall go and see him ere I die. Then Israel went forth with all that he had and
came to the pit where tofore he had sworn to God; and slew there beasts to make sacrifices
to the God of Isaac his father. He heard God by a vision that same night saying to him: Jacob,
Jacob, to whom he answered: I am here all ready. God said to him: I am strongest God of thy
father Isaac, dread thee not, but descend down into Egypt. I shall make thee to grow there
into great people. I shall descend with thee thither, and I shall bring thee again when thou
returnest. Joseph soothly shall put his hands upon thine eyes. Jacob then arose on the morn
early, and his sons took him with their children and wives and set them on the carriages that
Pharaoh had sent to bring him and all that he had into the land of Canaan. And so came into
Egypt with all his progeny, sons and children, etc.

These be the names of the sons of Israel that entered with him into Egypt. The first begotten
Reuben with his children four. Simeon with his seven sons. Levi with his three sons. Judah
and his sons three. Issachar and his four sons. Zebulon and his sons three. These were sons
of Leah that Jacob gat in Mesopotamia, and Dinah his daughter. All these sons and daughters
were thirty-three. Gad also entered with his children seven. Asher with his children five and
of his children's children two. These were sons of Zilpah, in number sixteen. The sons of Rachel
were Joseph and Benjamin. Joseph had two sons in the land of Egypt by his wife Asenath, Manasseh
and Ephraim. The sons of Benjamin were ten. All these children that came of Rachel were in
number fourteen. Dan entered with one son, and Naphtali with four sons. These were the children
of Bilhah; they were in number seven. All the souls that were issued of his seed that entered
into Egypt with him, without the wives of his sons, were sixty-six. The sons of Joseph that
were born in Egypt twain. Summa of all the souls of the house of Jacob that entered into Egypt
were in all seventy.

Jacob sent them tofore him Judah unto Joseph, to show to him his coming. And he came to Joseph
in Goshen, and anon Joseph ascended his chariot and went for to meet his father, and when he
saw him, he embraced him meekly and wept. And his father received him joyously and embraced
also him. Then said the father to Joseph: Now shall I die joyously because I have seen thy
visage. Then said Joseph to his brethren and to all the house of his father: I shall go and
ascend to Pharaoh and shall say to him, that my brethren and the house of my father that were
in the land of Canaan be come to me, and be men keeping sheep, and can the manner well for
to keep the flocks of sheep, and that they have brought with them their beasts, and all that
ever they had. When he shall call you and ask you of what occupation ye be, ye shall say: We
be shepherds, thy servants, from our childhood unto now, and our fathers also. This shall ye
say that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen, for the Egyptians have spite unto herdmen of sheep.
Then Joseph entered tofore Pharaoh and said to him: My father, my brethren, their sheep and
beasts be come from the land of Canaan, and be in the land of Goshen. And he brought five of
his brethren tofore the king, whom he demanded of what occupation they were of. They answered:
We be keepers of sheep, thy servants, we and our fathers, we be come to dwell in thy land,
for there is no grass for the flocks of sheep of us thy servants, the famine is so great in
the land of Canaan. We beseech thee that thou command us thy servants to dwell in the land
of Goshen. And if thou know them for conning, ordain they to be masters of my beasts. After
this Joseph brought his father in, and made him stand tofore the king which blessed him, and
was demanded of the king how old he was. He answered: The days of the pilgrimage of my life
be an hundred and thirty years, small and evil, and yet I am not come unto the days of my fathers
that they have lived. And he blessed the king and went out. Then Joseph gave to his father
and brethren possession in Egypt in the best soil of Rameses like as Pharaoh had commanded,
and there fed them, giving to each of them victual.

In all the world was scarcity of bread, and hunger and famine oppressed specially and most,
the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan. Of which lands Joseph gat all the money for selling
of wheat, and brought it into the king's treasury. When all people lacked money, all Egypt
came to Joseph saying: Give us bread, why die we to the lacking money. To whom he answered:
Bring to me your beasts and I shall give you for them victuals, if ye have no money: which
when they brought, he gave to them victuals and food for horses, sheep, oxen and asses, and
sustained them one year for changing of their beasts. Then came they again the second year
and said: We hide not from thee our lord that our money is failed and also our beasts be gone,
and there is nothing left but our bodies and our land. Why then shall we die in thy sight?
And we ourselves and also our land shall be thine, buy us into bondship and servitude of the
king, and give us seed to sow lest the earth turn into wilderness. Then Joseph bought all the
land of Egypt, every man selling his possessions for the vehement hunger that they had. He
subdued all unto Pharaoh, and all his people from the last terms of Egypt unto the utterest
ends of the same, except the land longing to the priests, which was given to them by the king,
to whom were given victuals openly out of all the barns and garners, and therefore they were
not compelled to sell their possessions. Then said Joseph to all the peoples: Lo, now ye see
and know that Pharaoh oweth and is in possession of you and of your land. Take to you seed
and sow ye the fields that ye may have fruit. The fifth part thereof ye shall give to the king
and four parts I promise to you to sow, and for meat to your servants and to your children.
Which answered: Our health is in thine hand, let our lord only behold us and we shall gladly
serve the king. From that time unto this present day, in all the land of Egypt the fifth part
is paid to the king; and it is holden for a law, except the land longing to the priests which
is free from this condition.

Then Israel dwelled in Egypt in the land of Goshen, and was in possession thereof. He increased
and multiplied greatly, and lived therein seventeen years. And all the years of his life were
an hundred and seven and forty years. When he understood that the day of his death approached,
he called to him his son Joseph and said to him: If I may find so much grace in thy sight,
do to me so much mercy as thou promise and swear that thou bury me not in Egypt, but that I
may rest with my fathers, and take and carry me from this land, and lay me in the sepulchre
of my forefathers. To whom Joseph answered: I shall do that thou hast commanded. Then said
he: Swear to me, and so he swore. And then Israel adored and worshipped our Lord, and turned
him toward his bed's head. Then this done, anon after it was told to Joseph that his father
was sick and feeble; who anon took his sons Manasseh and Ephraim and came to his father. Anon
it was told to the father: Lo thy son Joseph cometh to thee, which then was comforted, and
sat up in his bed. And Joseph entered in, and Jacob said: Almighty God appeared to me in Luz
which is in the land of Canaan, and he blessed me and said: I shall increase thee and multiply
thee into tourbes of peoples, I shall give to thee this land and to thy seed after thee in
sempiternal possession, therefore thy two sons that be born to thee in this land of Egypt tofore
I came hither to thee, shall be my sons Ephraim and Manasseh, they shall be reputed to me as
Simeon and Reuben. The other that thou shalt get after them shall be thine, and shall be called
in the name of their brethren in their possessions. Then he, seeing Joseph's sons, said to
him: Who be these children? Joseph answered: They be my sons which God hath given to me in
this place. Bring them hither, said he, to me that I may bless them. Israel's eyes were dimmed
and might not see clearly for great age. He took them to him and kissed them and said to Joseph:
I am not defrauded from the sight of thee, and furthermore God hath showed to me thy seed.
Then when Joseph took them from his father's lap, he worshipped him kneeling low to the earth,
and set Ephraim on his right side, and on the left side of Israel, and Manasseh on the right
side of his father Israel, which took his right hand and laid it on the head of Ephraim the
younger brother, and his left hand on the head of Manasseh which was first born. Then Jacob
blessed the sons of Joseph and said: God, in whose sight walked my fathers Abraham and Isaac,
God that hath fed me from my youth unto this present day, the angel that hath kept me from
all evil bless these children, and my name be called on them, and the names of my fathers Abraham
and Isaac, and grow they into multitude upon earth. Then Joseph seeing that his father set
his right hand upon the head of Ephraim the younger brother took it heavily, and took his father's
hand and would have laid it on the head of Manasseh, and said to his father; Nay father, it
is not convenient, that ye do, this is the first begotten son, set thy right hand on his head.
Which renied that and would not do so, but said: I wot, my son, I wot what I do, and this son
shall increase into peoples and multiply, but his younger brother shall be greater than he,
and his seed shall grow into gentiles, and blessed them, saying that same time: In thee shall
be blessed Israel, and shall be said: God make thee like to Ephraim and Manasseh. And there
he told to each of them his condition singularly. And when he had blessed his twelve sons he
commanded them to bury him with his fathers in a double spelunke which is in the field of Ephron
the Hittite against Mamre in the land of Canaan which Abraham bought. And this said he gathered
to him his feet and died. Which anon as Joseph saw, he fell on his visage and kissed him. He
commanded to his masters of physic and medicines, which were his servants, that they should
embalm the body of his father with sweet spices aromatic; which was all done, and then went
they sorrowing him forty days. The Egyptians wailed him seventy days, and when the wailing
was past, Joseph did say to Pharaoh how he had sworn and promised to bury him in the land of
Canaan. To whom Pharaoh said: Go and bury thy father like as thou hast sworn. Which then took
his father's body and went, and with him were accompanied all the aged men of Pharaoh's house,
and the noblest men of birth of all the land of Egypt, the house of Joseph with his brethren,
without the young children, flocks and beasts, which they left in the land of Goshen. He had
in his fellowship chariots, carts and horsemen, and was a great tourbe and company, and came
over Jordan where as they hallowed the exequies by great wailing seven days long. And when
they of the country saw this plaint and sorrowing they said: This is a great sorrow to the
Egyptians. And that same place is named yet the bewailing of Egypt. The children of Israel
did as they were commanded, and bare him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in the double
spelunke which Abraham had bought. Then when Jacob the father was buried, Joseph with all his
fellowship returned into Egypt. Then his brethren after the death of their father spake together
privily, and dreading that Joseph would avenge the wrong and evil that they had done to him,
came to him and said: Thy father commanded us ere he died that we should say thus to thee:
We pray thee that thou wilt forget, and not remember the sin and trespass of thy brethren,
ne the malice that they executed in thee. We beseech thee that thou wilt forgive to thy father,
servant of God, this wickedness. Which when Joseph heard he wept bitterly, and his brethren
came to him kneeling low to the ground and worshipped him, and said, We be thy servants. To
whom he answered: Be ye nothing afeard ne dread you not, ween ye that ye may resist God's will?
Ye thought to have done to me evil, but God hath turned it into good, and hath exalted me as
ye see and know, that he should save much people. Be ye nothing afeard, I shall feed you and
your children. And comforted them with fair words, and spake friendly and joyously to them.
And he abode and dwelled still in Egypt with all the house of his father, and lived an hundred
and ten years, and saw the sons of Ephraim in to the third generation. After these things he
said to his brethren: After my death, God shall visit you and shall do you depart from this
land unto the land that he promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. When that time shall come,
take my bones and lead them with you from this place, and then died. Whose body was embalmed
with sweet spices and aromatics and laid in a chest in Egypt.

HERE NEXT FOLLOWETH THE HISTORY OF MOSES

Which is read in-the Church on Mid-lent Sunday

These be the names of the children of Israel that entered into Egypt with Jacob, and each entered
with their household and meiny. Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulon, Benjamin, Dan,
Naphtali, Gad, and Asher; they were all in number that entered seventy. Joseph was tofore in
Egypt. And when he was dead and all his brethren and kindred, the children of Israel grew and
multiplied greatly, and filled the earth. Then was there a new king upon Egypt which knew nothing
of Joseph, and said to his people: Lo! and see the people of Israel is great, and stronger
than we be, come and let us wisely oppress them, lest they multiply and give us battle and
fight with us and drive us out of our land. Then he ordained provosts and masters over them
to set them awork and put them to affliction of burdens. They builded to Pharaoh two towns,
Pithom and Raamses. How much more they oppressed them, so much the more they increased and
multiplied. The Egyptians hated the children of Israel and put them to affliction, scorning
and having envy at them, and oppressed bitterly their life with hard work and sore labors of
tile and clay, and grieved all them in such works. Then Pharaoh commanded to his people saying:
Whatsomever is born of males cast ye into the river, and what of women keep ye them and let
ye them live.

After this was a man of the house of Levi went out and took a wife of his kindred, which conceived
and brought forth a son, and he saw him elegant and fair, and hid him three months, and when
he might no longer hide him, took a little crib of rushes and wickers and pitched it with glue
and pitch, and put therein the child, and set it on the river, and let it drive down in the
stream, and the sister of the child standing afar, considering what should fall thereof. And
it happed that same time, the daughter of king Pharaoh descended down to the river for to wash
her in the water, and her maidens went by the brink, which then, when she saw the little crib
or fiscelle she sent one of her maidens to fetch and take it up, which so fetched and brought
to her, and she saw therein lying a fair child; and she having pity on it said: This is one
of the children of the Hebrews. To whom anon spake the sister of the child: Wilt thou, said
she, that I go and call thee a woman of the Hebrews that shall and may nourish this child?
She answered: Go thy way. The maid went and called his mother, to whom Pharaoh's daughter said:
Take this child and nourish him to me, and I shall give to thee thy meed and reward. The mother
took her child and nourished it, and when it was weaned and could go she delivered it to the
daughter of king Pharaoh, whom she received and adopted instead of a son and named him Moses,
saying that I took him out of the water. And he there grew and waxed a pretty child. And as
Josephus, Antiquitatum, saith: This daughter of Pharaoh, which was named Termuthe, loved well
Moses and reputed him as her son by adoption, and on a day brought him to her father, who for
his beauty took him in his arms and made much of him, and set his diadem on his head, wherein
was his idol. And Moses anon took it, and cast it under his feet and trod on it, wherefore
the king was wroth, and demanded of the great doctors and magicians what should fall of this
child. And they kalked on his nativity and said: This is he that shall destroy thy reign and
put it under foot, and shall rule and govern the Hebrews. Wherefore the king anon decreed that
he should be put to death. But others said that Moses did it of childhood and ought not to
die therefore, and counselled to make thereof a proof, and so they did.

They set tofore him a platter full of coals burning, and a platter full of cherries, and bade
him eat, and he took and put the hot coals in his mouth and burned his tongue, which letted
his speech ever after; and thus he escaped the death. Josephus saith that when Pharaoh would
have slain him, Termuthe, his daughter, plucked him away and saved him. Then on a time as Moses
was full grown, he went to his brethren, and saw the affliction of them, and a man of Egypt
smiting one of the Hebrews, his brethren. And he looked hither and thither and saw no man.
He smote the Egyptian and slew him and hid him in the sand. And another day he went out and
found two of the Hebrews brawling and fighting together; then he said to him that did wrong:
Why smitest thou thy neighbor? which answered: Who hath ordained thee prince and judge upon
us? wilt thou slay me as thou slewest that other day an Egyptian? Moses was afeard and said
to himself: How is this deed known and made open? Pharaoh heard hereof and sought Moses for
to slay him, which then fled from his sight and dwelled in the land of Midian, and sat there
by a pit side. The priest of Midian had seven daughters which came thither for to draw water,
and to fill the vessels for to give drink to the flocks of the sheep of their father. Then
came on them the herdmen and put them from it. Then rose Moses and defended the maidens and
let them water their sheep, which then returned to their father Jethro. And he said to them:
Why come ye now earlier than ye were wont to do? They said that a man of Egypt hath delivered
us from the hand of the herdmen, and also he drew water for us and gave to the sheep drink.
Where is he, said he, why left ye the man after you? go call him that he may eat some bread
with us. Then Moses sware that he would dwell with him. And he took Zipporah one of his daughters
aad wedded her to his wife, which conceived and bare him a son whom he called Gershom, saying:
I was a stranger in a strange land. She brought to him forth another son whom he named Eleazar,
saying: The God of my father is my helper and hath kept me from the hand of Pharaoh.

Long time after this died the king of Egypt, and the children of Israel, wailing, made great
sorrow for the oppression of their labor, and cried unto God for help. Their cry came unto
God of their works, and God heard their wailing, and remembered the promise he made with Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob, and our Lord beheld the children of Israel and knew them.

Moses fed the sheep of Jethro his wife's father. When he had brought the sheep into the innermost
part of the desert he came unto the mount of God, Oreb. Our Lord appeared to him in flame of
fire in the midst of a bush, and he saw the fire in the bush, and the bush burned not. Then
said Moses, I shall go and see this great vision why the bush burneth not. Our Lord then beholding
that he went for to see it, called him, being in the bush, and said: Moses, Moses, which answered:
I am here. Then said our Lord: Approach no nearer hitherward. Take off thy shoon from thy feet,
the place that thou standest on is holy ground. The cry of the children of Israel is come to
me, I have seen their affliction, how they be oppressed of the Egyptians. But come to me and
I shall send thee unto Pharaoh that thou shalt lead the children of Israel out of Egypt. Then
Moses said to him: Who am I that shall go to Pharaoh and lead the children out of Egypt? To
whom God said: I shall be with thee, and this shall be the sign that I send thee. When thou
shalt have led out my people of Egypt, thou shalt offer to God upon this hill. Moses said unto
God: Lo! if I go to the children of Israel and say to them: God of your fathers hath sent me
to you; if they say: What is his name? what shall I say? Our Lord said to Moses: I am that
I am. Thou shalt go and take with thee the seniors of Israel to the king of Egypt, and shalt
say to him: The Lord God of the Hebrews hath called us; we shall go the journey of three days
in wilderness that we may offer to our Lord God. But I know well that the king of Egypt shall
not suffer you to go but by strong hand. I shall stretch out my hand and shall smite Egypt
in all my marvels that I shall do amid among them. After that he shall let you go. I shall
then give my grace to this people tofore the Egyptians, and when ye shall go out ye shall not
depart void, nor with nought, but every woman shall borrow of her neighbor, and of her hostess,
vessels of silver and of gold, and clothes, and them shall ye lay on your sons, and on your
daughters, and ye shall rob Egypt. Then Moses answered and said: They shall not believe me
ne hear my voice, but shall say: God hath not appeared to thee.

God said then to him: What is that thou holdest in thine hand? He answered: A rod. Our Lord
said: Cast it on the ground. He threw it down and it turned into a serpent, whereof Moses was
afeard and would have fled. Our Lord said to him: Put forth thy hand and hold him by the tail;
he stretched forth his hand and held him, and it turned again into a rod. To this, that they
believe thee, that I have appeared to thee. And yet our Lord said to him: Put thy hand into
thy bosom, which, when he hath put in, and drawn out again, it was like a leper's hand. Our
Lord bade him to withdraw it into his bosom again, and he drew it out and it was then like
that other flesh. If they hear not thee, and believe by the first sign and token, they shall
believe thee by the second. If they believe none of the two ne hear thy voice, then take water
of the river and pour on the dry ground, and whatsoever thou takest and drawest shall turn
into blood. Then Moses said: I pray the Lord send some other, for I am not eloquent, but have
a letting in my speech. Our Lord said to him: Who made the mouth of a man, or who hath made
a man dumb or deaf, seeing or blind, not I? Go, therefore, I shall be in thy mouth and shall
teach thee what thou shalt say. Then said Moses: I beseech thee Lord, said he, send some other
whom thou wilt. Our Lord was wroth on Moses and said: Aaron thy brother deacon, I know that
he is eloquent, lo! he shall come and meet with thee, and seeing thee he shall be glad in his
heart. Speak thou to him and put my words in his mouth, and I shall be in thy mouth and in
his mouth, and I shall show to you what ye ought to do, and he shall speak for the people,
and shall be thy mouth, and thou shalt be in such things as pertain to God. Take with thee
this rod in thine hand, by which thou shalt do signs and marvels. Then Moses went to Jethro
his wife's father, and said to him, I shall go and return to my brethren into Egypt, and see
if they yet live. To whom Jethro said: Go in God's name and place. Then said our Lord to Moses:
Go and return into Egypt, all they be now dead that sought for to slay thee. Then Moses took
his wife and his sons and set them upon an ass and returned in to Egypt, bearing the rod of
God in his hand. Then our Lord said to Aaron: Go against Moses and meet with him in desert;
which went for to meet with him unto the mount of God, and there kissed him.

And Moses told unto Aaron all that our Lord had said to him for which he sent him, and all
the tokens and signs that he bade him do. They came both together and gathered and assembled
all the seniors and aged men of the children of Israel. And Aaron told to them all that God
had said to Moses, and made the signs and tokens tofore the people and the people believed
it. They heard well that our Lord had visited the children of Israel, and that he had beholden
the affliction of them, wherefore they fell down low to the ground and worshipped our Lord.

After this Moses and Aaron went unto Pharaoh and said: This saith the Lord God of Israel: Suffer
my people to depart that they may sacrifice to me in desert. Then said Pharaoh: Who is that
Lord that I may hear his voice and leave Israel? I know not that Lord, nor I will not leave
Israel. They said to him: God of the Hebrews hath called us that we go the journey of three
days in the wilderness and sacrifice unto our Lord God, lest peradventure pestilence or war
fall to us. The king of Egypt said to them: Why solicit ye, Moses and Aaron, the people from
their works and labor? Go ye unto your work. Pharaoh also said: The people is much, see how
they grow and multiply, and yet much more shall do if they rested from their labor. Therefore
he commanded the same day to the prefects and masters of their works saying: In no wise give
no more chaff to the people for to make loam and clay, but let them go and gather stubble,
and make them do as much labor as they did tofore, and lessen it nothing. They do now but cry:
Let us go and make sacrifice to our God, let them be oppressed by labor and exercised that
they attend not to leasings. Then the prefects and masters of their work said to them that
Pharaoh had commanded to give them no chaff, but they should go and gather such as they might
find, and that their work should not therefore be minished. Then the children were disperpled
for to gather chaff, and their masters awaited on them and bade them: Make an end of your work
as ye were wont to do when that chaff was delivered to you. And thus they were put to more
affliction, and would make them to make as many tiles as they did tofore. Then the upperest
of the children of Israel came to Pharaoh and complained saying: Why puttest thou thy servants
to such affliction? He said to them: Ye be so idle that ye say ye will go and sacrifice to
your God; ye shall have no chaff given to you, yet ye shall work your customable work and gather
your chaff also.

Then the eldest and the upperest among the Hebrews went to Moses and Aaron and said: What have
ye done? ye have so done that ye have made our odor to stink in the sight of Pharaoh, and have
encouraged him to slay us. Then Moses counselled with our Lord how he should do, and said:
Lord, why hast thou sent me hither? For, sith I have spoken to Pharaoh in thy name, he hath
put thy people to more affliction than they had tofore, and thou hast not delivered them. Our
Lord said to Moses: Now thou shalt see what I shall do to Pharaoh. By strong hand he shall
let you go, and in a boistous he shall cast you from his land.

Yet said our Lord to Moses: I am the Lord God that appeared to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in
my might, and my name is Adonai, I showed to them not that. I promised and made covenant with
them that I should give to them the land of Canaan in which they dwelled. I now have heard
the wailing and the tribulations that the Egyptians oppress them with, for which I shall deliver
and bring them from the servitude of the Egyptians. Moses told all these things to the children
of Israel, and they believed him not for the anguish of their spirits that they were in, and
hard labor. Then said our Lord to Moses: Go and enter in to Pharaoh and bid him deliver my
people of Israel out of his land. Moses answered: How should Pharaoh hear me when the children
of Israel believe me not? Then our Lord said to Moses and Aaron that they both should go to
Pharaoh and give him in commandment to let the children of Israel to depart. And he said to
Moses: Lo! I have ordained thee to be God of Pharaoh, and Aaron thy brother shall be thy prophet.
Thou shalt say to him all that I say to thee, and he shall say to Pharaoh that he suffer the
children of Israel to depart from his land. But I shall enhard his heart, and shall multiply
my signs and tokens in the land of Egypt, and he shall not hear ne believe you. And I shall
lead the children of Israel my people. And shall show mine hand, and such wonders on Egypt,
that Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord. Moses and Aaron did as our Lord commanded them.
Moses was eighty years old when he came and stood tofore Pharaoh, and Aaron eighty-three years
when they spake to Pharaoh. Then when they were tofore Pharaoh, Aaron cast the rod down, tofore
Pharaoh, and anon the rod turned into a serpent. Then Pharaoh called his magicians and jugglers
and bade them do the same. And they made their witchcraft and invocations and cast down their
rods, which turned in likewise into serpents, but the rod of Aaron devoured their rods. Yet
was the heart of Pharaoh hard and so indurate that he would not do as God bade. Then said our
Lord to Moses: The heart of Pharaoh is grieved and will not deliver my people. Go to him to-morn
in the morning and he shall come out, and thou shalt stand when he cometh on the bank of the
river, and take in thine hand the rod that was turned into the serpent, and say to him: The
Lord God of the Hebrews sendeth me to thee saying: Deliver my people that they may offer and
make sacrifice to me in desert, yet thou hast no will to hear me. Therefore our Lord said:
In this shalt thou know that I am the Lord: Lo! I shall smite with the rod that is in my hand
the water of the flood, and it shall turn into blood; the fishes that be in the water shall
die, and the Egyptians shall be put to affliction drinking of it. Then said our Lord to Moses:
Say thou to Aaron: Take this rod and stretch thine hand upon all the waters of Egypt, upon
the floods, rivers, ponds, and upon all the lakes where any water is, in that they turn to
blood, that it may be a vengeance in all the land of Egypt, as well in treen vessels as in
vessels of earth and stone.

Moses and Aaron did as God had commanded them, and smote the flood with the rod tofore Pharaoh
and his servants, which turned into blood, and the fishes that were in the river died, and
the water was corrupt. And the Egyptians might not drink the water, and all the water of Egypt
was turned into blood. And in likewise did the enchanters with their witchcraft, and the heart
of Pharaoh was so indurate that he would not let the people depart as our Lord had commanded,
but he returned home for this time. The Egyptians went and dolven pits for water all about
by the river, and they found no water to drink but all was blood. And this plague endured seven
days, and whatsomever water the children of Israel took in this while was fair and good water.
This was the first plague and vengeance. The second was that God sent frogs so many, that all
the land was full, the rivers, the houses, chambers, beds, that they were woebegone, and these
frogs entered into their meat, so many that they covered all the land of Egypt. Then Pharaoh
prayed Moses and Aaron that God would take away these frogs, and that he would go suffer the
people to do sacrifice; and then Moses asked when he would deliver them if the frogs were voided,
and Pharaoh said: In the morn. And then Moses prayed, and they voided all. And when Pharaoh
saw that he was quit of them, he kept not his promise and would not let them depart. The third
vengeance that God sent to them was a great multitude of hungry horse-flies, as many as the
dust of the earth, which were on men, and bit them and beasts. And then enchanters said then
to Pharaoh: This is the finger of God. Yet would not Pharaoh let them depart. The fourth vengeance
was that God sent all manner kind of flies and lice in such wise that the universal land of
Egypt was full of all manner flies and lice, but in the land of Goshen were none. Yet was he
so indurate that he would not let them go, but would that they should make their sacrifice
to God in that land. But Moses would not so, but would go three days' journey in desert, and
sacrifice to God there. Pharaoh said: I will that ye go into desert, but not far, and come
soon again, and pray ye for me. And Moses prayed for him to our Lord, and the flies voided
that there was not one left. And when they were gone Pharaoh would not keep his promise. Then
the fifth plague was that God showed his hand upon the fields and upon the horses, asses, camels,
sheep and oxen, and was a great pestilence on all the beasts. And God showed a wonder miracle
between the possessions of the Egyptians and the possessions of his people of Israel, for of
the beasts of the children of Israel there was not one that perished. Yet was Pharaoh so hard-hearted
that he would not suffer the people to depart. The sixth plague was that Moses took ashes out
of the chimney and cast on the land. And anon all the people of Egypt, as well men as beasts,
were full of blotches, boils, and blains and wounds, and swellings in such wise that the enchanters
could ne might not stand for pain tofore Pharaoh. Yet would not Pharaoh hear them, nor do as
God had commanded. The seventh plague was a hail so great that there was never none like tofore,
and thunder and fire that it destroyed all the grass and herbs of Egypt and smote down all
that was in the field, men and beasts. But in the land of Goshen was none heard ne harm done.
Yet would not Pharaoh deliver them. The eighth our Lord sent to them locusts, which is a manner
great fly, called in some place an adder-bolte, which bit them and ate up all the corn and
herbs that was left, in such wise that the people came to Pharaoh and desired him to deliver,
saying that the land perished. Then Pharaoh gave to the men license to go and make their sacrifice,
and leave their wives and children there still, till they came again, but Moses and Aaron said
they must go all, wherefore he would not let them depart. The ninth plague and vengeance was
that God sent so great darkness upon all the land of Egypt that the darkness was so great and
horrible that they were palpable, and it endured three days and three nights. Wheresoever the
children of Israel went it was light.

Then Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron and said to them: Go ye and make your sacrifice unto your
Lord God, and let your sheep and beasts only abide. To whom Moses said: We shall take with
us such hosties and sacrifices as we shall offer to our Lord God. All our flocks and beasts
shall go with us, there shall not remain as much as a nail that shall be necessary in the honor
of our Lord God, for we know not what we shall offer till we come to the place. Pharaoh was
so indurate and hard-hearted that he would not let them go, and bade Moses that he should no
more come in his sight. For when thou comest thou shalt die. Moses answered: Be it as thou
hast said: I shall no more come to thy presence. And then our Lord said to Moses: There resteth
now but one plague and vengeance, and after that he shall let you go. But first say to all
the people that every man borrow of his friend, and woman of her neighbor, vessels of gold
and silver, and clothes; our Lord shall give to his people grace and favor to borrow of the
Egyptians; and then gave to them a commandment how they should depart. And our Lord said to
Moses: At midnight I shall enter into Egypt and the first-begotten child and heir of all Egypt
shall die, from the first-begotten son of Pharaoh that sitteth in his throne unto the first-begotten
son of the handmaid that sitteth at the mill, and all the first-begotten of the beasts. There
shall be a great cry and clamor in all the land of Egypt in such wise that there was never
none like, ne never shall be after, and among all the children there shall not an hound be
hurt, ne woman, ne beast, whereby ye shall know by what miracle God divideth the Egyptian and
Israel. Moses and Aaron showed all these signs and plagues tofore Pharaoh, and his heart was
so indurate that he would not let them depart. Then when Moses had said to the children how
they should do, they departed, and ate their paschal lamb, and all other ceremonies as be expressed
in the Bible, for a law to endure ever among them, which the children of Israel obeyed and
accomplished, it was so that at midnight our Lord smote and slew every first-begotten son throughout
all the land of Egypt, beginning at the first son and heir of Pharaoh unto the son of the caitiff
that lay in prison, and also the first-begotten of the beasts. Pharaoh arose in the night and
all his servants and all Egypt, and there was a great clamor and sorrowful noise and cry, for
there was not a house in all Egypt but there lay therein one that was dead. Then Pharaoh did
do call Moses and Aaron in the night, and said: Arise ye and go your way from my people, ye
and the children of Israel, as ye say ye will, take your sheep and beasts with you like as
ye desired, and at your departing bless ye me. The Egyptians constrained the children to depart
and go their way hastily, saying: We all shall die. The children of Israel took their meal,
and put it on their shoulders as they were commanded, and borrowed vessels of silver and of
gold, and much clothing. Our Lord gave to them such favor tofore the Egyptians that the Egyptians
lent to them all that they desired, and they spoiled and robbed Egypt.

And so the children of Israel departed, nigh the number of six hundred thousand footmen, besides
women and children which were innumerable, and an huge great multitude of beasts of divers
kinds. The time that the children of Israel had dwelt in Egypt was four hundred years. And
so they departed out of Egypt, and went not the right way by the Philistines, but our Lord
led them by the way of desert which is by the Red Sea. And the children descended out of Egypt
armed. Moses took with him the bones of Joseph for he charged them so to do when he died. They
went in the extreme ends of the wilderness, and our Lord went tofore them by day in a column
of a cloud, and by night in a column of fire and was their leader and duke; the pillar of the
cloud failed never by day, nor the pillar of fire by night tofore the people. Our Lord said
to Moses, I shall make his heart so hard that he shall follow and pursue you, and I shall be
glorified in Pharaoh, and in all his host, the Egyptians shall know that I am Lord. And anon
it was told to Pharaoh that the children of Israel fled, and anon his heart was changed, and
also the heart of his servants, and said: What shall we do, shall we suffer the children to
depart and no more to serve us? Forthwith he took his chariot and all his people with him.
He took with him six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots and wains of Egypt, and
the dukes of all his hosts and he pursued the children of Israel and followed them in great
pride. And when he approached, that the children of Israel saw him come, they were sore afraid
and cried to our Lord God, and said to Moses: Was there not sepulchre enough for us in Egypt
but that we must now die in wilderness? Said we not to thee: Go from us and let us serve the
Egyptians: It had been much better for us to have served the Egyptians than to die here in
wilderness. And Moses said to the people: Be ye not afraid, stand and see ye the great wonders
that our Lord shall do for you this day. The Egyptians that ye now see, ye shall never see
them after this day. God shall fight for you, and be ye still. Our Lord said then to Moses:
What criest thou to me? Say to the children of Israel that they go forth. Take thou and raise
the rod, and stretch thy hand upon the sea, and depart it that the children of Israel may go
dry through the middle of it. I shall so indurate the heart of Pharaoh that he shall follow
you, and all the Egyptians, and I shall be glorified in Pharaoh, and in all his host, his carts
and horsemen. And the Egyptians shall know that I am Lord when I shall so be glorified. The
angel of God went tofore the castles of Israel, and another came after in the cloud which stood
between them of Egypt and the children of Israel. And the cloud was dark that the host of Israel
might not come to them of all the night. Then Moses stretched his hand upon the sea, and there
came a wind blowing in such wise that it waxed dry, and the children of Israel went in through
the midst of the Red Sea all dry foot; for the water stood up as a wall on the right side and
on the left side. The Egyptians then pursuing them followed and entered after them, and all
the carts, chariots and horsemen, through the middle of the sea. And then our Lord beheld that
the children of Israel were passed over and were on the dry land, on that other side. Anon
turned the water on them, and the wheels on their carts turned up so down, and drowned all
the host of Pharaoh, and sank down into the deep of the sea. Then said the Egyptians: Let us
flee Israel; the Lord fighteth for them against us. And then the Egyptians would have fled,
but the water came and overflowed them in the midst of the flood, and it covered the chariots
and horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh, and there was not one saved of them. And the children
of Israel had passed through the middle of the dry sea and came a-land.

Thus delivered our Lord the children of Israel from the hand of the Egyptians, and they saw
the Egyptians lying dead upon the brinks of the sea. And the people then dreaded our Lord and
believed in him, and to Moses his servant. Then Moses and the children of Israel sang this
song to our Lord: Cantemus domino magnificatus est, Let us sing to our Lord, he is magnified,
he hath overthrown the horsemen and carmen in the sea. And Miriam the sister of Aaron, a prophetess,
took a timpane in her hand, and all the women followed her with timpanes and chords, and she
went tofore singing Cantemus domino. Then Moses brought the children of Israel from the sea
into the desert of Sur, and walked with them three days and three nights and found no water,
and came into Marah, and the waters there were so bitter that they might not drink thereof.
Then the people grudged against Moses, saying: What shall we drink? And he cried unto our Lord
which showed to him a tree which he took and put into the waters, and anon they were turned
into sweetness. There our Lord ordained commandments and judgments, and there he tempted him
saying: If thou hearest the voice of thy Lord-God, and that thou do is rightful before him,
and obeyest his commandments, and keep his precepts, I shall not bring none of the languors
ne sorrows upon thee that I did in Egypt. I am Lord thy saviour. Then the children of Israel
came in to Elim, where as were twelve fountains of water, and seventy palm trees, and they
abode by the waters. Then from thence went all the multitude of the children of Israel into
the desert of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, and grudged against Moses and Aaron in
that wilderness, and said: Would God we had dwelled still in Egypt, whereas we sat and had
plenty of bread and flesh; why have ye brought us into the desert for to slay all this multitude
by hunger? Our Lord said then to Moses: I shall rain bread to you from heaven, let the people
go out and gather every day that I may prove them whether they walk in my law or not; the sixth
day let them gather double as much as they gather in one day of the other. Then said Moses
and Aaron to all the children of Israel: At even ye shall know that God hath brought you from
the land of Egypt, and to-morn ye shall see the glory of our Lord. I have well heard your murmur
against our Lord, what have ye mused against us? what be we? and yet said Moses; Our Lord shall
give you at even flesh for to eat and to-morn bread unto your fill, for as much as ye have
murmured against him; what be we? Your murmur is not against us but against our Lord. As Aaron
spake to all the company of the children of Israel they beheld toward the wilderness, and our
Lord spake to Moses in a cloud and said: I have heard the grudgings of the children of Israel;
say to them: At even ye shall eat flesh and to-morn ye shall be filled with bread, and ye shall
know that I am your Lord God. And when the even was come there came so many curlews that it
covered all their lodgings, and on the morn there lay like dew all about in their circuit.
Which when they saw and came for to gather, it was small and white like to coriander. And they
wondered on it and said: Mahun, that is as much to say, what is this? To whom Moses said: This
is the bread that God hath sent you to eat, and God commandeth that every man should gather
as much for every head as is the measure of gomor, and let nothing be left till on the morn.
And the sixth day gather ye double so much, that is two measures of gomor, and keep that one
measure for the Sabbath, which God hath sanctified and commanded you to hallow it. Yet some
of them brake God's commandment, and gathered more than they ate and kept it till on the morn,
and then it began to putrify and be full of worms. And that they kept for the Sabbath day was
good and putrified not. And thus our Lord fed the children of Israel forty years in the desert.
And it was called Manna. Moses took one gomor thereof and put it in the tabernacle for to be
kept for a perpetual memory and remembrance.

Then went they forth all the multitude of the children of Israel, in the desert of Sin in their
mansions and came, to Rephidim, where as they had no water. Then all grudging they said to
Moses, Give us water for to drink. To whom Moses answered: What grudge ye against me, why tempt
ye our Lord? The people thirsted sore for lack and penury of water saying: Why hast thou brought
us out of Egypt for to slay us and our children and beasts? Then Moses cried unto our Lord
saying: What shall I do to this people? I trow within a while they shall stone me to death.
Then our Lord said to Moses: Go before the people and take with thee the older men and seniors
of Israel, and take the rod that thou smotest with the flood in thy hand, and I shall stand
tofore upon the stone of Oreb, and smite thou the stone with the rod and the waters shall come
out thereof that the people may drink. Moses did so tofore the seniors of Israel and called
that place Temptation, because of the grudge of the children of Israel, and said: Is God with
us or not? Then came Amalek and fought against the children of Israel in Rephidim. Moses said
then to Joshua: Choose to thee men, and go out and fight against Amalek to-morrow. I shall
stand on the top of the hill having the rod of God in my hand: Joshua did as Moses commanded
him, and fought against Amalek. Moses, Aaron, and Hur ascended into the hill, and when Moses
held up his hands, Israel won and overcame their enemies, and when he laid them down then Amalek
had the better. The hands of Moses were heavy; Aaron and Hur took then a stone and put it under
them, and they sustained his hands on either side, and so his hands were not weary until the
going down of the sun. And so Joshua made Amalek to flee, and his people, by strength of his
sword. Our Lord said to Moses: Write this for a remembrance in a book and deliver it to the
ears of Joshua; I shall destroy and put away the memory of Amalek under heaven. And when they
were together Moses told him all what our Lord had done to Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for
Israel, and all the labor that they endured and how our Lord had delivered them. Jethro was
glad for all these things, that God had so saved them from the hands of the Egyptians and said:
Blessed be the Lord that hath delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and of Pharaoh,
and hath saved his people; now I know that he is a great Lord above all gods, because they
did so proudly against them. And Jethro offered sacrifices and offerings to our Lord. Aaron
and all the seniors of Israel came and eat with him tofore our Lord. The next day Moses sat
and judged and deemed the people from morning unto evening, which, when his cousin saw, he
said to him: What doest thou? Why sittest thou alone and all the people tarry from the morning
until evening? To whom Moses answered: The people came to me demanding sentence and the doom
of God; when there is any debate or difference among them they come to me to judge them, and
to show to them the precepts and the laws of God. Then said Jethro: Thou dost not well nor
wisely, for by folly thou consumest thy self, and the people with thee; thou dost above thy
might, thou mayst not alone sustain it, but hear me and do there after, and our Lord shall
be with thee. Be thou unto the people in those things that appertain to God, that thou tell
to them what they should do, and the ceremonies and rites to worship God, and the way by which
they should go, and what work they shall do. Provide of all people wise men and dreading God,
in whom is truth, and them that hate avarice and covetise, and ordain of them tribunes and
centurions and deans that may in all times judge the people. And if there be of a great charge
and weight, let it be referred to thee, and let them judge the small things; it shall be the
easier to thee to bear the charge when it is so parted. If thou do so, thou shalt fulfil the
commandment of God, and sustain his precepts, and the people shall go home to their places
in peace. Which things when Moses had heard and understood, he did all that he had counselled
him, and chose out the strongest and wisest people of all Israel and ordained them princes
of the people, tribunes, centurions, quinquagenaries, and deans, which at all times should
judge and deem the people. And all the great and weighty matters they referred to him, deeming
and judging the small causes. And then his cousin departed and went into his country.

The third month after the children of Israel departed out of Egypt, that same day they came
into the wilderness of Sinai, and there about the region of the mount they fixed their tents.
Moses ascended into the hill unto God. God called him on the hill and said: This shalt thou
say to the house of Jacob and to the children of Israel. Ye yourselves have seen what I have
done to the Egyptians, and how I have borne you on the wings of eagles and have taken you to
me. If ye therefore hear my voice and keep my covenant, ye shall be to me in the reign of priesthood
and holy people. These be the words that thou shalt say to the children of Israel. Moses came
down and gathered all the most of birth, and expounded in them all the words that our Lord
had commanded him. All the people answered: All that ever our Lord hath said we shall do,

When Moses had showed the people the words of our Lord, our Lord said to him: Now I shall come
to thee in a cloud that the people may hear me speaking to thee, that they believe thee ever
after. Moses went and told this to the people, and our Lord bade them to sanctify the people
this day and to-morrow, and let them wash their clothes, and be ready the third day. The third
day our Lord shall descend tofore all the people on the mount of Sinai. And ordain to the people
the marks and terms in the circuit. And say to them: Beware that ye ascend not on the hill
ne touch the ends of it. Whosoever touched the hill shall die by death, there shall no hand
touch him, but with stones he shall be oppressed and with casting of them on him he shall be
tolben; whether it be man or beast, he shall not live. When thou hearest the trump blown then
ascend to the hill. Moses went down to the people and sanctified and hallowed them, and when
they had washen their clothes he said to them: Be ye ready at the third day and approach not
your wives; When the third day came, and the morning waxed clear, they heard thunder and lightning
and saw a great cloud cover the mount, and the cry of the trump was so shrill that the people
were sore afraid. When Moses had brought them forth unto the root of the hill they stood there.
All the mount of Sinai smoked, for so much as our Lord descended on it in fire, and the smoke
ascended from the hill as it had been from a furnace. The mount was terrible and dreadful,
and the sound of the trump grew a little more and continued longer. Moses spake and our Lord
answered him. Our Lord descended upon the top of the mount of Sinai, even on the top of it,
and called Moses to him, which when he came said to him: Go down and charge the people that
they come not to the terms of the hill for to see the Lord, for if they do, much multitude
shall perish of them. The priests that shall come let them be sanctified lest they be smitten
down. And thou and Aaron shall ascend the hill. All the people and priests let them not pass
their bounds lest God smite them. Then Moses descended and told to the people all that our
Lord hath said. After this our Lord called Moses and said: I am the Lord God that brought you
out of Egypt and of thraldom. And gave him the Commandment first by speaking and many ceremonies
as be rehearsed in the Bible, which is not requisite to be written here, but the ten commandments
every man is bounden to know. And ere Moses received them written, he went up into the mount
of Sinai, and fasted there forty days and forty nights ere he received them. In which time
he commanded him to make many things, and to ordain the laws and ceremonies which now be not
had in the new law. And also as doctors say, Moses learned that time all the histories tofore
written of the making of heaven and earth, of Adam, Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and of Joseph
with his brethren. And at last delivered to him two tables of stone, both written with the
hand of God, which follow.

The first commandment that God commanded is this. Thou shalt not worship no strange ne diverse
gods.

The second commandment is this, that thou shalt not take the name of God in vain, that is to
say, thou shalt not swear by him for nothing.

The third commandment is that thou have mind and remember that thou hallow and keep holy thy
Sabbath day or Sunday. These three commandments be written in the first table and appertain
only to God.

The fourth commandment is that thou shalt honor and worship thy father and mother, for thou
shalt live the longer on earth.

The fifth commandment is that thou shalt slay no man.

The sixth commandment is, thou shalt not do adultery.

The seventh commandment is that thou shalt do no theft.

The eighth commandment is that thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor.

The ninth commandment is that thou shalt not desire the wife of thy neighbor, nor shalt not
covet her in thine heart.

The tenth commandment is that thou shalt not covet nothing that is, or longeth to, thy neighbor.

These be the ten commandments of our Lord, of which the three first belong to God, and the
seven other be ordained for our neighbors. Every person that hath wit and understanding in
himself, and age, is bound to know them and to obey and keep these ten commandments aforesaid
or else he sinneth deadly.

Thus Moses abode in the hill forty days and forty nights and received of Almighty God the tables
with the commandments written with the hand of God; and also received and learned many ceremonies
and statutes that God ordained, by which the children of Israel should be ruled and judged.
And whiles that Moses was thus with our Lord on the mount, the children of Israel saw that
he tarried and descended not, and some of them said that he was dead or gone away, and would
not return again, and some said nay; but in conclusion they gathered them together against
Aaron, and said to him: Make to us some gods that may go tofore us, we know not what is befallen
to Moses. Then Aaron said: Take the gold that hangeth in the ears of your wives and your children,
and bring it to me. The people did as he bade, and brought the gold to Aaron, which he took
and molt it and made thereof a calf. Then they said: These be thy gods, Israel, that brought
thee out of the land of Egypt. Then the people made an altar tofore it, and made great joy
and mirth, and danced and played tofore the calf, and offered and made sacrifices thereto.
Our Lord spake to Moses, saying: Go hence and descend down, thy people have sinned whom thou
hast brought forth from the land of Egypt. They have soon forsaken and left the way which thou
hast showed to them. They have made to them a calf blown, and they have worshipped it, and
offered sacrifices thereto, saying: These be thy gods, Israel, that have brought thee out of
the land of Egypt, Yet said our Lord to Moses: I see well that this people is of evil disposition,
suffer me that I may wreak my wrath on them, and I shall destroy them. I shall make thee governor
of great people.

Moses then prayed our Lord God saying: Why art thou wroth, Lord, against thy people that thou
hast brought out of the land of Egypt in a great strength and a boisterous hand? I beseech
thee, Lord, let not the Egyptians say that their God hath locked them out for to slay them
in the mountains. I pray thee Lord that thy wrath may assuage, and be thou pleased and benign
upon the wickedness of thy people. Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob thy servants, to whom
thou promisedst and swaredst by thyself saying: I shall multiply your seed as the stars of
heaven, and the universal, land of which I have spoken I shall give to your seed, and ye shall
possess and have it ever. And with these words our Lord was pleased that he would do no harm
as he had said unto his people; and Moses returned from the mount, bearing two tables of stone,
written both with the hand of God. And the scripture that was in the tables were the ten commandments
as fore be written. Joshua hearing the great noise of the children of Israel said to Moses:
I trow they fight beneath, which answered and said: It is no cry of exhorting men to fight,
ne noise to compel me to flee, but I hear the noise of singing. When he approached to them
he saw the calf and the instruments of mirth, and he was so wroth that he threw down the tables
and brake them at the foot of the hill, and ran and caught down the calf that they had made,
and burnt and smote it all to powder, which he cast into water and gave it to drink to the
children of Israel. Then said Moses to Aaron: What hath this people done to thee that thou
hast made to sin grievously? To whom he answered: Let not my lord take none indignation at
me, thou knowest well that this people is prone and ready to sin. They said to me: Make us
gods that may go tofore us; we know not what is fallen to this Moses that led us out of Egypt.
To whom I said: Who of you that hath gold give it me; they took and gave it to me, and I cast
it into the fire, and thereof came out this calf. And then said Moses: All they that be of
God's part and have not sinned in this calf let them join to me; and the children of Levi joined
to him, and he bade each man take a sword on his side and take vengeance and slay every each
his brother, friend, and his neighbor that have trespassed. And so the children of Levi went
and slew thirty-three thousand of the children of Israel. And then said Moses: Ye have hallowed
this day your hands unto our Lord, and ye shall be therefore blessed. The second day Moses
spake to the people and said: Ye have committed and done the greatest sin that may be. I shall
ascend unto our Lord again, and shall pray him for your sin. Then Moses ascended again, and
received afterward two tables again, which our Lord bade him make. And therein our Lord wrote
the commandments. And after, our Lord commanded him to make an ark and a tabernacle: in which
ark was kept three things. First the rod with which he did marvels, a pot full of manna, and
the two tables with commandments. And then after Moses taught them the law; how each man should
behave him against other and what he should do, and what he should not do, and departed them
into twelve tribes, and commanded that every man should bring a rod into the Tabernacle. And
Moses wrote each name on the rod, and Moses shut fast the tabernacle. And on the morn there
was found one of the rods that burgeoned and bare leaves and fruit, and was of an almond tree.
That rod fell to Aaron.

And after this, long time, the children desired to eat flesh and remembered of the flesh that
they ate in Egypt, and grudged against Moses, and would have ordained to them a duke for to
have returned into Egypt. Wherefore Moses was so woe that he desired of our Lord to deliver
him from this life, because he saw them so unkind against God. Then God sent to them so great
plenty of curlews that two days and one night they flew so thick by the ground that they took
great number, for they flew but the height of two cubits. And they had so many that they dried
them hanging on their tabernacles and tents. Yet were they not content, but ever grudging,
wherefore God smote them and took vengeance on them by a great plague and many died and were
buried there. And then from thence they went into Hazeroth and dwelt. After this Miriam and
Aaron, brother and sister of Moses, began to speak against Moses, because of his wife which
was of Ethiopia, and said: God hath not spoken only by Moses, hath he not also spoken to us?
Wherefore our Lord was wroth. Moses was the humblest and the meekest man that was in all the
world. Anon then, our Lord said to him, and to Aaron and to Miriam: Go ye three only unto the
tabernacle; and there our Lord said that there was none like to Moses, to whom he had spoken
mouth to mouth, and reproved Aaron and Miriam because they spake so to Moses, and being wroth,
departed from them, and anon, Miriam was smitten and made leper and white like snow. And when
Aaron beheld her and saw her smitten with leprosy, he said to Moses: I beseech the Lord that
thou set not the sin on us which we have committed follily, and let not this our sister be
as a dead woman, or as born out of time and cast away from her mother, behold and see, half
her flesh is devoured of the leprosy. Then Moses cried unto our Lord, saying: I beseech thee
Lord that thou heal her; to whom our Lord said: If her father had spit in her face should she
not be put to shame and rebuke seven days? Let her depart out of the castles seven days, and
after she shall be called in again. So Miriam was shut out of the castles seven days, and the
people removed not from the place till she was called again.

After this our Lord commanded Moses to send men into the land of Canaan that he should give
them charge for to see and consider the goodness thereof, and that of every tribe he should
send some. Moses did as our Lord had commanded, which went in and brought of the fruits with
them, and they brought a branch with one cluster of grapes as much as two men might bear between
them upon a colestaff. When they had seen the country and considered by the space of forty
days they returned and told the commodities of the land, but some said that the people were
strong, and many kings and giants, in such wise that they said it was impregnable and that
the people were much stronger than they were. Wherefore the people anon were afeard, and murmured
against Moses and would return again into Egypt. Then Joshua and Caleb, which were two of them
that had considered the land, said to the people: Why grudge ye and wherefore be ye afraid?
We have well seen the country, and it is good to win. The country floweth full of milk and
honey, be not rebel against God, he shall give it us, be ye not afeard. Then all the people
cried against them, and when they would have taken stones and stoned them, our Lord in his
glory appeared in a cloud upon the covering of the tabernacle, and said to Moses: This people
believeth not the signs and wonders that I have showed and done to them. I shall destroy them
all by pestilence, and I shall make thee a prince upon people greater and stronger than this
is. Then prayed Moses to our Lord for the people, that he would have pity on them and not destroy
them, but to have mercy on them after the magnitude of his mercy. And our Lord at his request
forgave them. Nevertheless our Lord said that all the men that had seen his majesty, and the
signs and marvels that he did in Egypt, and in desert, and have tempted him ten times, and
not obeyed unto his voice, shall not see ne come into the country and land that I have promised
to their fathers, but Joshua and Caleb, my servants, shall enter into the land, and their seed
shall possess it. Moses told all this unto the children and they wailed and sorrowed greatly
therefore.

After this the people removed from thence and came into the desert of Sin; and then Miriam,
sister of Moses and Aaron, died, and was buried in the same place. Then the people lacked water
and came and grudged against Moses, and yet wished they had abided in Egypt. Then Moses and
Aaron entered into the Tabernacle and fell down to the ground low, and prayed unto our Lord,
saying: Lord God, hear the clamor of thy people, and open to them thy treasure, a fountain
of living water, that they may drink and the murmuration of them may cease. Our Lord said to
him then: Take the rod in thy hand, and thou and Aaron thy brother, assemble and gather the
people and speak ye to the stone, and it shall give out water. And when the water cometh let
all the multitude drink and their beasts. Moses then took the rod as our Lord bade, and gathered
all the people tofore the stone and said to them: Hear ye rebels and out of belief; trow ye
not that we may give you water out of this stone? And he lift up his hand and smote between
the stone, and water came and flowed out in the most largest wise, in such wise that the people
and beasts drank their fill. Then said God to Moses and Aaron: Because ye have not believed
me and sanctified my name tofore the children of Israel, and given to me the laud, but have
done this in your name, ye shall not bring this people into the land that I shall give to them.
And therefore this water was called the water of contradiction, where the children grudged
against God.

Anon after this, by God's commandment, Moses took Aaron upon the hill, and despoiled him of
his vesture, and clothed therewith his son Eleazar, and made him upperest bishop for his father
Aaron. And there Aaron died in the top of the hill, and Moses descended with Eleazar. And when
all the multitude of people saw that Aaron was dead, they wept and wailed on him thirty days
in every tribe and family.

After this the people went about the land of Edom, and began to wax weary, and grudged against
our Lord and Moses, and said yet: Why hast thou led us out of the Land of Egypt for to slay
us in this desert and wilderness? Bread faileth us, there is no water, and our souls abhor
and loathe this light meat. For which cause God sent among them fiery-serpents, which bit and
wounded many of them and slew also. Then they that were hurt came in to Moses and said: We
have sinned, for we have spoken against our Lord and thee; pray for us unto God that he deliver
from us these serpents. Then Moses prayed our Lord for the people.

After this when Moses had showed to them all the laws of our Lord, and ceremonies, and had
governed them forty years, and that he was an hundred and twenty years old, he ascended from
the fields of Moab upon the mountain of Nebo into the top of Pisgah against Jericho, and there
our Lord showed to him all the land of Gilead unto Dan, and the land of promise from that one
end unto that other. And then our Lord said to him: This is the land that I promised to Abraham,
Isaac, and Jacob, saying: I shall give it to thy seed. Now thou hast seen it with thine eyes,
and shalt not enter ne come therein. And there in that place died Moses, servant of our Lord,
as God commanded, and was buried in the vale of the land of Moab against Beth-peor. The children
of Israel wept and mourned for him thirty days in the fields of Moab. Joshua the son of Nun
was replenished with the spirit of wisdom; for Moses set on him his hands, and the children
obeyed him as our Lord had commanded to Moses. And there was never after a prophet in Israel
like unto Moses, which knew and spake to God face to face in all signs and tokens that God
did and showed by him in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh and all his servants.

THE HISTORY OF JOSHUA

After Moses, Joshua was duke and leader of the children of Israel, and brought them into the
land of behest, and did many great battles. For whom God showed many great marvels and in especial
one; that was that the sun stood still at his request, till he had overcome his enemies, by
the space of a day. And our Lord, when he fought, sent down such hail-stones that slew more
of his enemies with the stones than with man's hand.

Joshua was a noble man and governed well Israel, and divided the land unto the twelve tribes
by lot. And when he was an hundred and ten years old he died. And divers dukes after him judged
and deemed Israel, of whom be noble histories, as of Jephthah, Gideon, and Samson, which I
pass over unto the histories of the kings, which is read in holy church from the first Sunday
after Trinity Sunday, unto the first Sunday of August.

THE HISTORY OF SAUL

The first Sunday after Trinity Sunday unto the first Sunday of the month of August is read
the Book of Kings.

This history maketh mention that there was a man named Elkanah which had two wives, that one
was named Hannah, and the name of the second Peninnah. Peninnah had children and Hannah had
none but was barren. The good man at such days as he was bounden, went to his city for to make
his sacrifice and worship God. In this time Hophni and Phineas sons of Eli, the great priest,
were priests of our Lord. This Elkanah gave to Peninnah at such times as he offered, to her
sons and daughters, certain parts, and unto Hannah he gave but one part. Peninnah did much
sorrow and reproof to Hannah because she had had no children, and thus did every year, and
provoked her to wrath, but she wept for sorrow and ate no meat. To whom Elkanah her husband
said: Hannah, why weepest thou? and wherefore eatest thou not? Why is thine heart put to affliction?
Am I not better to thee than ten sons? Then Hannah arose after she had eaten and drunk in Shilo
and went to pray unto our Lord, making to him a vow if that she might have a son she should
offer him to our Lord. Eli that time sat tofore the posts of the house of our Lord. And Hannah
besought and prayed our Lord, making to him a vow, if that she might have a son she should
offer him to our Lord. And it was so that she prayed so heartily in her thought and mind, that
her lips moved not, wherefore Eli bare her on hand that she was drunk. And she said: Nay, my
lord, I am a sorrowful woman, I have drunken no wine ne drink that may cause me to be drunken,
but I have made my prayers, and cast my soul in the sight of Almighty God. Repute me not as
one of the daughters of Belial, for the prayer that I have made and spoken yet is of the multitude
of the heaviness and sorrow of my heart. Then Eli the priest said to her: Go in peace, the
God of Israel give to thee the petition of thy heart for that thou hast prayed him. And she
said: Would God that thy handservant might find grace in thy sight. And so she departed, and
on the morn they went home again in to Ramatha.

After this our Lord remembered her, and she bare a fair son and named him Samuel for so much
as she asked him of our Lord. Wherefore Elkanah, her husband, went and offered a solemn sacrifice
and his vow accomplished, but Hannah ascended not with him. She said to her husband that she
would not go till her child were weaned and taken from the pap. And after when Samuel was weaned,
and was an infant, the mother took him, and three calves and three measures of meal, and a
bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of our Lord in Shilo and sacrificed that calf
and offered the child to Eli, and told to Eli that she was the woman that prayed our Lord for
that child. And there Hannah worshipped our Lord and thanked him, and there made this psalm
which is one of the canticles: My heart hath rejoiced in the Lord, and so forth, all the remnant
of that psalm. And then Elkanah with his wife returned home to his house. After this our Lord
visited Hannah, and she conceived three sons, and two daughters, which she brought forth. And
Samuel abode in the house of our Lord and was minister in the sight of Eli. But the two sons
of Eli, Hophni and Phineas, were children of Belial, not knowing our Lord, but did great sins
against the commandments of God. And our Lord sent a prophet to Eli because he corrected not
his sons, and said he would take the office from him and from his house, and that there should
not be an old man in his house and kindred, but should die ere they came to man's estate, and
that God should raise a priest that should be faithful and after his heart.

Samuel served and ministered our Lord in a surplice before Eli. And on a time as Eli lay in
his bed his eyes were so dimmed that he might not see the lantern of God till it was quenched
and put out. Samuel slept in the temple of our Lord whereas the ark of God was, and our Lord
called Samuel, which answered: I am ready, and ran to Eli and said: I am ready, thou callest
me. Which said: I called thee not my son, return and sleep, and he returned and slept. And
our Lord called him the second time, and he arose and went to Eli and said: Lo! I am here,
thou calledst me, which answered: I called thee not, go thy way, and sleep. Samuel knew not
the calling of our Lord yet, ne there was never revelation showed him tofore. And our Lord
called Samuel the third time, which arose and came to Eli and said: I am here, for thou calledst
me. Then Eli understood that our Lord had called him, and said to Samuel: Go and sleep, and
if thou be called again thou shalt say: Speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth thee. Samuel returned
and slept in his place, and our Lord came and called him: Samuel! Samuel! and Samuel said:
Say, Lord, what it pleaseth, for thy servant heareth. And then our Lord said to Samuel: Lo!
I make my word to be known in Israel that whoso heareth, his ears shall ring and sound thereof.
In that day I shall raise against Eli that I have said upon his house. I shall begin and accomplish
it. I have given him in knowledge that I shall judge his house for wickedness, forasmuch as
he knoweth his sons to do wickedly, and hath not corrected them. Therefore I have sworn to
the house of Eli that the wickedness of his house shall not be made clean with sacrifices ne
gifts never.

Samuel slept till on the morn, and then he rose and opened the doors of the house of our Lord
in his surplice; and Samuel was afeard to show this vision unto Eli. Eli called him and asked
what our Lord hath said to him and charged him to tell him all: and Samuel told to him all
that our Lord had said, and hid nothing from him. And he said: He is our Lord, what it pleaseth
him, let him do. Samuel grew, and our Lord was with him in all his works. And it was known
to all Israel from Dan to Beersheba that Samuel was the true prophet of our Lord. After this
it was so that the Philistines warred against the children of Israel, against whom there was
a battle, and the children of Israel overthrown and put to flight. Wherefore they assembled
again, and took with them the ark of God which Hophni and Phineas, sons of Eli, bare, and when
they came with a great multitude with the ark, the Philistines were afraid. Notwithstanding
they fought against them manly and slew thirty thousand footmen of the children of Israel and
took the ark of God. And the two sons of Eli were slain, Hophni and Phineas. And a man of the
tribe of Benjamin ran for to tell this unto Eli which sat abiding some tidings of the battle.
This man, as soon as he entered into the town, told how the field was lost, the people slain,
and how the ark was taken. And there was a great sorrow and cry.

And when Eli heard this cry and wailing he demanded what this noise was and meant, and wherefore
they so sorrowed. Then the man hied and came and told to Eli. Eli was at that tide ninety-eight
years old, and his eyes were waxen blind and might not see, and he said: I am he that came
from the battle, and fled this day from the host. To whom Eli said: What is there done, my
son? He answered: The host of Israel is overthrown and fled tofore the Philistines, and a great
ruin is made among the people, thy two sons be slain and the ark of God is taken. And when
Eli heard him name the ark of God he fell down backward by the door and brake his neck and
there died. He was an old man and had judged Israel forty years. Then the Philistines took
the ark of God and set it in their temple of Dagon, by their god Dagon, in Ashdod. On the morn,
the next day early, when they of Ashdod came into their temple, they saw their god Dagon lie
on the ground tofore the ark of God upon his face, and the head and the two hands of Dagon
were cut off. And there abode no more but the trunk only in the place. And God showed many
vengeances to them of the country as long as the ark was with them, for God smote them with
sickness, and wells boiled in towns and fields of that region, and there grew among them so
many mice, that they suffered great persecution and confusion in that city.

The people seeing this vengeance and plague said: Let not the ark of the God of Israel abide
longer with us, for his hand is hard on us and on Dagon our god, and sent for the great masters
and governors of the Philistines, and when they were gathered they said: What shall we do with
the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered: Let it be led all about the cities, and so
it was, and a great vengeance and death was had upon all the cities, and smote every man with
plague from the most to the least. And then they sent the ark of God into Acheron and when
they of Acheron saw the ark, they cried saying: They have brought the ark of the God of Israel
to us, for to slay us and our people. They cried that the ark should be sent home again, for
much people were dead by the vengeance that was taken on them, and a great howling and wailing
was among them. The ark was in the region of the Philistines seven months. After this they
counselled with their priests what they should do with the ark, and it was concluded it should
be sent home again, but the priests said: If ye send it home, send it not void, but what ye
owe pay for your trespass and sin, and then ye shall be healed and cured of your sicknesses.
And so they ordained after the number of the five provinces of the Philistines, five pieces
of gold and five mice of gold, and led to a wain and put in it two wild kine, which never bear
yoke, and said, Leave their calves at home and take the ark and set it on the wain, and also
the vessels and pieces of gold that ye have paid for your trespass, set them at the side of
the ark and let them go where they will, and thus they sent the ark of God unto the children
of Israel.

Samuel then governed Israel long, and when he was old he set his sons judges on Israel, whose
names were Joel and Abiah. And these two his sons walked not in his ways, but declined after
covetise and took gifts and perverted justice and doom. Then assembled and gathered together
all the greatest of birth of the children of Israel, and came to Samuel and said: Lo! thou
art old and thy sons walk not in thy ways, wherefore ordain to us a king that may judge and
rule us like as all other nations have. This displeased much to Samuel when they said, Ordain
on us a king. Then Samuel counselled on this matter with our Lord, to whom God said: Hear the
voice of the people that speak to thee: they have not cast only thee away, but me, that I should
not reign on them, for they do now like as they ever have done sith I brought them out of Egypt
unto this day; that is that they have served false gods and strange, and so do they to thee.
Notwithstanding hear them, and tell to them tofore, the right of the king, and how he shall
oppress them.

Samuel told all this to the people that demanded to have a king, and said: This shall be the
right of a king that shall reign on you. He shall take your sons and make them his men of war,
and set them in his chariots and shall make them his carters and riders of his horse in his
chariots and carts, and shall ordain of them tribunes and centurions, earers and tillers of
his fields, and mowers and reapers of his corn, and he shall make them smiths, and armorers
of harness and cars, and he shall also take your daughters and make them his unguentaries [makers
of perfumes], and ready at his will and pleasure; he shall also take from you your fields and
vineyards and the best olives and give them to his servants, and he shall task and dime [tithe]
your corn and sheaves, and the rents of your vineyards he shall value for to give to his officers
and servants, and shall take from you your servants, both men and women, and set them to his
works. And your asses and beasts he also shall take to his labor, your flocks of sheep he shall
task and take the tenth or what shall please him, and ye shall be to him thrall and servants.
And ye shall cry then wishing to flee from the face of yaur king, and our Lord shall not hear
you nor deliver you because ye have asked for you a king. Yet for all this the people would
not hear Samuel, but said: Give to us a king, for a king shall reign on us, and we shall be
as all other people be. To whom God commanded to ordain to them a king, and so he did, for
he took a man of the tribe of Benjamin whose name was Saul, a good man and chosen, and there
was not a better among all the children of Israel, and he was higher of stature from the shoulder
upward than any other of all the people. And Samuel anointed him king upon Israel, and said
to him: Our Lord God hath anointed thee upon his heritage and ordained thee a prince, and thou
shalt deliver his people from the hands of his enemies that be in the circuit and countries
about, and so departed from him. And Samuel after this gathered the people together and said:
Our Lord saith that he hath brought you from the land of Egypt, and saved you from the hands
of all the kings that were your enemies and pursued you, and ye have forsaken our Lord God
that hath only delivered you from all your evil and tribulations, and have said: Ordain upon
us a king. Wherefore now stand every each in his tribe, and we shall lot who shall be our king.
And the lot fell on the tribe of Benjamin, and in that tribe the lot fell upon Saul the son
of Kish. And they sought him and could not find him, and it was told him that he was hid in
his house at home, and the people ran thither and fetched him and set him amidst all the people.
And he was higher than any of all the people from the shoulder upward. Then Samuel said to
the people, Now ye see and behold whom our Lord hath chosen, for there is none like him of
all the people. And then all the people cried: Vivat Rex, live the king. Samuel wrote the law
of the realm to the people in a book, and put it tofore our Lord. Thus was Saul made the first
king in Israel, and anon had much war, for on all sides men warred on the children of Israel,
and he defended them, and Saul had divers battles and had victory.

Samuel came on a time to Saul and said God commanded him to fight against Amalek and that he
should slay and destroy man, woman, and child, ox, cow, camel and ass and sheep, and spare
nothing. Then Saul assembled his people and had two hundred thousand footmen and twenty thousand
men of the tribe of Judah, and went forth and fought against Amalek and slew them, sauf he
saved Agag the King of Amalek alive, and all other he slew, but he spared the best flocks of
sheep and of other beasts, and also good clothes, and wethers, and all that was good he spared,
and whatsomever was foul he destroyed. And this was showed to Samuel by our Lord, saying: Me
forthinketh that I have ordained Saul king upon Israel, for he hath forsaken me, and not fulfilled
my commandments. Samuel was sorry herefor, and wailed all the night. On the morn he rose and
came to Saul, and Saul offered sacrifice to our Lord of the pillage that he had taken. And
Samuel demanded of Saul what noise that was he heard of sheep and beasts, and he said that
they were of the beasts that the people had brought from Amalek to offer unto our Lord, and
the residue were slain. They have spared the best and fattest for to do sacrifice with unto
thy Lord God. Then said Samuel to Saul: Rememberest thou not that whereas thou wert least among
the tribes of Israel thou wert made upperest? And our Lord anointed thee, and made thee king.
And he said to thee: Go and slay the sinners of Amalek and leave none alive, man ne beast;
why hast thou not obeyed the commandment of our Lord? And hast run to robbery and done evil
in the sight of God? And then said Saul to Samuel: I have taken Agag, king of the Amalekites,
and brought him with me, but I have slain Amalek. The people have taken of the sheep and beasts
of the best for to offer unto our Lord God. And then said Samuel: Trowest thou that our Lord
would rather have sacrifice and offerings than not to obey his commandments? Better is obedience
than sacrifice, and better it is to take heed to do after thy Lord than to offer the fat kidneys
of the wethers. For it is a sin to withstand and to repugn against his Lord like the sin of
idolatry. And because thou hast not obeyed our Lord, and cast away his word, our Lord hath
cast thee away that thou shalt not be king. Then said Saul to Samuel: I have sinned for I have
not obeyed the word of God and thy words, but have dreaded the people and obeyed to their request,
but I pray thee to bear my sin and trespass and return with me that I may worship our Lord.
And Samuel answered, I shall not return with thee. And so Samuel departed, and yet ere he departed,
he did do slay [caused to be slain] Agag the king. And Samuel saw never Saul after unto his death.

Then our Lord bade Samuel to go and anoint one of the sons of Isai, otherwise called Jesse,
to be king of Israel. And so he came into Bethlehem unto Jesse and bade him bring his sons
tofore him. This Jesse had eight sons, be brought tofore Samuel seven of them, and Samuel said
there was not he that he would have. Then he said that there was no more, save one which was
youngest and yet a child, and kept sheep in the field. And Samuel said: Send for him, for I
shall eat no bread till he come. And so he was sent for and brought. He was ruddy and fair
of visage and well favored, and Samuel arose, and took an horn with oil and anointed him in
the middle of his brethren. And forthwith the spirit of our Lord came directly in him that
same day and ever after. Then Samuel departed and came into Ramah. And the spirit of our Lord
went away from Saul and an evil spirit oft vexed him. Then his servants said to him: Thou oft
art vexed with an evil spirit, it were good to have one that could harp, to be with thee when
the spirit vexeth thee, thou shalt bear it the lighter. And he said to his servants: Provide
ye to me such one. And then one said: I saw one of Jesse's sons play on a harp, a fair child
and strong, wise in his talking and our Lord is with him. Then Saul sent messages to Jesse
for David, and Jesse sent David his son with a present of bread, wine, and a kid, to Saul.
And always when the evil spirit vexed Saul, David harped tofore him and anon he was eased,
and the evil spirit went his way.

After this the Philistines gathered them into great hosts to make war against Saul and the
children of Israel, and Saul gathered the children of Israel together and came against them
in the vale of Terebinthe. The Philistines stood upon the hill on that other part, and the
valley was between them. And there came out of the host of the Philistines a great giant named
Goliath of Gath; he was six cubits high and a palm, and a helmet of brass on his head, and
was clad in a habergeon. The weight of his habergeon was of five thousand shekels of weight
of metal. He had boots of brass on his calves, and his shoulders were covered with plates of
brass. His glaive was as a great colestaff, and there was thereon six shekels of iron, and
his squire went tofore him and cried against them of Israel, and said they should choose a
man to fight a singular battle against Goliath, and if he were overcome the Philistines should
be servants to Israel, and if he prevailed and overcame his enemy, they of Israel should serve
the Philistines, and thus he did cry forty days long. Saul and the children of Israel were
sore afraid. David was at this time in Bethlehem with his father, and kept sheep, and three
of his brethren were in the host with Saul. To whom Jesse said: David, take this pottage, ten
loaves of bread, and ten cheeses, and go run unto the host to thy brethren, and see how they
do, and learn how they be arrayed. David delivered his sheep to one to keep them, and bare
these things unto the host. And when he came thither he heard a great cry, and he demanded
after his brethren. And that same time came forth that giant Goliath and said, as he had done
tofore, and David heard him speak. And David said: What is this uncircumcised that hath despised
the host of the God of Israel? And what reward shall he have that shall slay him? And the people
said as afore is said. And when his oldest brother heard him speak to the people he was wroth
with him, and said: Wherefore art thou come hither and hast left the few sheep in desert. I
know well thy pride, thou art come for to see the battle. And David said: What have I done?
Is it not as the people said? I dare fight well with this giant; and declined from his brother
to other of the people. And all this was showed to Saul, and David was brought to him, and
said to Saul: I, thy servant, shall fight against this giant if thou wilt. And Saul said to
him: Thou mayst not withstand this Philistine nor fight against him, for thou art but a child;
this giant hath been a fighter from his childhood. David said to Saul: I thy servant kept my
father's sheep, and there came a lion and a bear and took away a wether from the middle of
my flock, and I pursued after, and took it again from their mouths, and they arose and would
have devoured me, and I caught them by the jaws and slew them. I thy servant slew the lion
and the bear, therefore this Philistine uncircumcised shall be as one of them. I shall now
go and deliver Israel from this opprobrium and shame. How is this Philistine uncircumcised
so hardy as to curse the host of the living God? And yet said David: The Lord that kept me
from the might of the lion and from the strength of the bear, he will deliver me from the power
of the Philistine. Saul said then to David: Go, and our Lord be with thee.

Saul did do arm him with his armor, and girded his sword about him. And when he was armed,
David said: I may not ne cannot fight thus, for I am not accustomed ne used, and unarmed him,
and took his staff that he had in his hand, and chose to him five good round stones from the
brook and put them in his bag, and took a sling in his hand, and went forth against the giant.
And when Goliath saw him come, he despised him and said: Weenest thou that I am a hound that
comest with thy staff to me? And he cursed David by his gods, and said to David: Come hither
and I shall give thy flesh to the fowls of heaven and to the beasts of the earth. David said
unto Goliath: Thou comest to me with thy sword and glaive, and I come to thee in the name of
the Lord God of the host of Israel which thou hast this day despised; and that Lord shall give
thee in my hand, and I shall slay thee and smite off thy head. And I shall give this day the
bodies of the men of war of the Philistines to the fowls of heaven, and to the beasts of the
earth. Then Goliath rose and hied toward David, and David on that other side hied, and took
a stone and laid it in his sling, and threw it at the giant, and smote him in the forehead
in such wise that the stone was fixed there, in that he fell down on his visage. Thus prevailed
David against the Philistine with his sling and stone, and smote him and slew him. And he had
no sword but he went and took Goliath's own sword and therewith smote off his head. And then
the Philistines seeing this giant thus slain, fled, and the Israelites after followed, and
slew many of them, and returned again and came into the tents, pavilions and lodgings of the
Philistines, and took all the pillage.

David took the head of Goliath and brought it into Jerusalem, and his arms he brought into
his tabernacle. And Abner brought David, having the head of Goliath in his hand, tofore Saul.
And Saul demanded of him of what kindred that he was, and he said that he was son of Jesse
of Bethlehem, and forthwith that same time Jonathan, the son of Saul, loved David as his own
soul. Saul then would not give him license to return to his father, and Jonathan and he were
confederate and swore each of them to be true to other, for Jonathan gave his coat that he
was clad withal, and all his other garments, unto his sword and spear, unto David. And David
did all that ever Saul bade him do wisely and prudently. And when he returned from the battle,
and Goliath was slain, the women came out from every town singing with choirs and timpanes
against the coming of Saul with great joy and gladness, saying: Saul hath slain a thousand
and David hath slain ten thousand. And this saying displeased much to Saul, which said: They
have given to David ten thousand and to me one thousand; what may he more have save the realm,
and to be king? For this cause Saul never loved David after that day, ne never looked on him
friendly but ever sought means afterward to destroy David, for he dreaded that David should
be lord with him, and put him from him. And David was wise and kept him well from him. And
after this he wedded Michal, daughter of Saul, and Jonathan made oft times peace between Saul
and David, yet Saul kept no promise, but ever lay in wait to slay David. And Jonathan warned
David thereof. And David gat him a company of men of war to the number of four hundred, and
kept him in the mountains.

And on a time David was at home with his wife Michal, and Saul sent thither men of war to slay
him in his house in the morning; and when Michal heard thereof, she said to David: But if thou
save thyself this night, to-morn thou shalt die, and she let him out by a window by which he
escaped and saved himself. Michal took an image and laid in his bed, and a rough skin of a
goat on the head of the image, and covered it with clothes. And on the morn Saul sent spies
for David, and it was answered to them that he lay sick in his bed. Then after this sent Saul
messengers for to see David, and said to them: Bring him to me in his bed that he may be slain.
And when the messengers came they found a simulachre or an image in his bed, and goats' skins
on the head. Then said Saul to Michal his daughter: Why hast thou mocked me so, and hast suffered
mine enemy to flee? And Michal answered to Saul and said: He said to me: Let me go or I shall
slay thee.

David went to Samuel in Rama and told him all that Saul had done to him. And it was told to
Saul that David was with Samuel, and he sent thither messengers to take him. And when they
came they found them with the company of prophets, and they sat and prophesied with them. And
he sent more. And they did also so. And the third time he sent more messengers. And they also
prophesied. And then Saul being wroth asked where Samuel and David were, and went to them,
and he prophesied when he came also, and took off his clothes and was naked all that day and
night before Samuel. David then fled from thence and came to Jonathan and complained to him
saying: What have I offended that thy father seeketh to slay me? Jonathan was sorry therefore,
for he loved well David. After this Saul ever sought for to slay David. And on a time Saul
went into a cave, and David was within the cave, to whom his squire said: Now hath God brought
thine enemy into thine hand; now go and slay him. And David said: God forbid that I should
lay any hand on him, he is anointed. I shall never hurt ne grieve him, let God do his pleasure.
And he went to Saul and cut off a gobet [a small piece] of his mantle and kept it. And when
Saul was gone out, soon after issued David out and cried to Saul saying: Lo! Saul, God hath
brought thee into my hands. I might have slain thee if I had would, but God forbade that I
should lay hand on thee, my lord anointed of God. And what have I offended that thou seekest
to slay me? Who art thou? said Saul. Art thou not David my son? Yes, said David, I am thy servant,
and kneeled down and worshipped him. Then said Saul: I have sinned, and wept and also said:
Thou art rightfuller than I am, thou hast done to me good, and I have done to thee evil. And
thou hast well showed to me this day that God had brought me into thine hand, and thou hast
not slain me. God reward thee for this, that thou hast done to me; now know I well that thou
shalt reign in Israel. I pray thee to be friendly to my seed, and destroy not my house, and
swear and promise me that thou take not away my name from the house of my father; and David
sware and promised to Saul. And then Saul departed and went home, and David and his people
went in to surer places.

Anon after this Samuel died, and was buried in his house in Rama. And all Israel bewailed him
greatly. Then there was a rich man in the mount of Carmel that hight Nabal, and on a time he
sheared and clipped his sheep, to whom David sent certain men, and bade them say that David
greeted him well, and whereas aforetimes his shepherds kept his sheep in desert, he never was
grevious to them, ne they lost not much as a sheep as long as they were with us, and that he
might ask his servants for they could tell, and that he would now in their need send them what
it pleased him. Nabal answered to the children of David: Who is that David? Trow ye that I
shall send the meat that I have made ready for them that shear my sheep and send it to men
that I know not? The men returned and told to David all that he had said. Then said David to
his men: Let every man take his sword and gird him withal, and David took his sword and girt
him. And David went and four hundred men followed him, and he left two hundred behind him.
One of the servants of Nabal told to Abigail, Nabal's wife, how that David had sent messengers
from the desert unto his lord, and how wroth and wayward he was, and also he said that those
men were good enough to them when they were in desert, ne never perished beast of yours as
long as they were there. They were a wall and a shield for us both day and night all the time
that we kept our flocks there, wherefore consider what is to be done. They purpose to do harm
to him and to his house, for he is the son of Belial in such wise that no man may speak with
him. Then Abigail hied her and took two hundred loaves of bread, one hundred bottles of wine,
five wethers sodden, and five measures of pottage, and one hundred bonds of grapes dried, and
two hundred masses of caricares, and laid all this upon asses, and said to her servants: Go
ye tofore, and I shall follow after. She told hereof nothing to her husband Nabal.

Then she took an ass and rode after, and when she came to the foot of the hill, David and his
men descended; to whom she ran, and David said: I have for naught saved all the beasts of this
Nabal in desert, and there perished nothing of his that pertained to him, and he hath yielded
evil for good. By the living God I shall not leave as much as his alive as one man. As soon
as Abigail saw David she descended from her ass, and fell down tofore David, upon her visage
and worshipped him on the earth, and fell down to his feet and said: In me, said she, my lord,
be this wickedness, I beseech thee that I thine handmaiden may speak to thine ears, and that
thou wilt hear the words of me thy servant. I pray and require thee my lord, let not thy heart
be set against this wicked man Nabal, for according to his name he is a fool, and folly is
with him. I thine handmaid saw not thy children that thou sendedst. Now, therefore, my lord,
for the love of God and of thy soul, suffer not thy hand to shed no blood, and I beseech God
that thine enemies may be like Nabal and they that would thee harm; and I beseech thee to receive
this blessing and present which I thine handmaid have brought to thee, my lord, and give it
to thy men that follow thee, my lord. Take away the wickedness from me thy servant, and I beseech
God to make to thee, my lord, a house of truth, for thou, my lord, shall fight the battles
of our Lord God; and let no malice be found in thee, never in all the days of thy life. If
ever any man arise against thee or would pursue or would hurt thee, I beseech God to keep thee.
And when our Lord God hath accomplished to thee, my lord, all that he hath spoken good of thee,
and hath constituted thee duke upon Israel, let this not be in thy thought, ne scruple in thy
heart that thou shouldest shed blood not guilty, ne be thou not now avenged. And when our Lord
God hath done well to thee, my lord, have thou remembrance on me thine handmaid, and do well to me.

And David said to Abigail: Blessed be God of Israel that sent thee this day to meet me, and
blessed be thy speech, and blessed be thou that hast withdrawn me from bloodshedding, and that
I avenged me not on mine enemy with mine hand, else by the living God of Israel, if thou hadst
not come unto me, there should not have blyven [been left] unto Nabal to-morn in the morning
one man. Then David received all that she brought and said to her: Go peaceably into thine
house, lo! I have heard thy voice and I have honored thy visage; and so Abigail came unto Nabal,
and David returned into the place he came from. Nabal made a great feast in his house, like
the feast of a king, and the heart of Nabal was jocund; he was drunken, and Abigail his wife
told to him no word till on the morn, little ne much. On the morn when Nabal had digested the
wine, his wife told him all these words. And his heart was mortified within him, and he was
dead like a stone, for the tenth day after, our Lord smote him and he died. And when David
heard that he was dead, he said: Blessed be the good Lord that hath judged the cause of mine
opprobrium from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept me his servant from harm, and our Lord hath
yielded the malice of Nabal on his own head. Then David sent to Abigail for to have her to
his wife, and she humbled herself and said she his handmaid was ready to wash the feet of his
servants. And she arose and took with her five maidens which went afoot by her, and she rode
upon an ass, and followed the messengers, and was made wife to David. And David also took another
wife called Ahinoam of Jezreel, and both two were his wives.

After this Saul always sought David for to slay him. And the people called Zyphites told to
Saul that David was hid in the hill of Hachilah which was on the after part of the wilderness,
and Saul took with him three thousand chosen men and followed and sought David. David when
he heard of the coming of Saul went into the place whereas Saul was, and when he was asleep
he took one with him and went into the tent where Saul slept, and Abner with him and all his
people. Then said Abishai to David: God hath put thine enemy this day in thine hands, now I
shall go and smite him through with my spear, and then after that we shall have no need to
dread him. And David said to Abishai: Slay him not; who may extend his hand into the anointed
king of God and be innocent? And David said yet more: By the living God, but if God smite him
or the days come that he shall die or perish in battle, God be merciful to me, as I shall not
lay my hand on him that is anointed of our Lord. Now take the spear that standeth at his head,
and the cup of water, and let us go. David took the spear and the cup and departed thence and
there was not one that saw them ne awaked, for they slept all. Then when David was on the hill
far from them, David cried to the people and to Abner, saying: Abner, shalt not thou answer?
And Abner answered: Who art thou that cryest and wakest the king? And David said to Abner:
Art thou not a man and there is none like thee in Israel? why hast thou not therefore kept
thy lord the king? There is one of the people gone in to slay the king thy lord; by the living
Lord it is not good that ye do, but be ye worthy to die because ye have not kept your lord
anointed of our Lord. Now look and see where the king's spear is, and the cup of water that
stood at his head. For what cause dost thou, my lord, pursue me thy servant? what thing have
I done and what evil have I committed with my hand? Thou seest well I might have slain thee
if I would; God judge between thee and me. And Saul said: I have sinned, return, my son; I
shall never hereafter do thee harm ne evil, for thy soul is precious in my sight this day.
It appeareth now that I have done follily, and am ignorant in many things. Then said David:
Lo! here is the spear of the king, let a child come fetch it, our Lord shall reward to every
man after his justice and faith. Our Lord hath this day brought thee into my hands, and yet
I would not lay mine hand on him that is anointed of our Lord. And like as thy soul is magnified
this day in my sight, so be my soul magnified in the sight of God and deliver me from all anguish.
Saul said then to David: Blessed be thou, my son David. And David went then his way, and Saul
returned home again.

And David said in his heart: Sometime it might hap to me to fall and come into the hands of
Saul, it is better I flee from him and save me in the land of the Philistines. And he went
thence with six hundred men and came to Achish king of Gath and dwelled there. And when Saul
understood that he was with Achish he ceased to seek him. And Achish delivered to David a town
to dwell in named Ziklag.

After this the Philistines gathered and assembled much people against Israel. And Saul assembled
all Israel and came upon Gilboa; and when Saul saw all the host of the Philistines, his heart
dreaded and fainted sore, he cried for to have counsel of our Lord. And our Lord answered him
not, ne by swevens ne by priests, ne by prophets. Then said Saul to his servants: Fetch to
me a woman having a phiton, otherwise called a phitoness or a witch. And they said that there
was such a woman in Endor. Saul then changed his habit and clothing, and did on other clothing,
and went, and two men with him, and came to the woman by night, and made her by her craft to
raise Samuel. And Samuel said to Saul: Why hast thou put me from my rest, for to arise? And
Saul said: I am coarted [constrained] thereto, for the Philistines fight against me, and God
is gone from me, and will not hear me, neither by prophets, ne by swevens [dreams]. And Samuel
said: What askest thou of me when God is gone from thee and gone unto David? God shall do to
thee as he hath said to thee by me, and shall cut thy realm from thine hand, and shall give
it thy neighbor David. For thou hast not obeyed his voice, ne hast not done his commandment
in Amalek; therefore thou shalt lose the battle and Israel shall be overthrown. To-morrow thou
and thy children shall be with me, and our Lord shall suffer the children of Israel to fall
in the hands of the Philistines. Anon then Saul fell down to the earth. The words of Samuel
made him afeard and there was no strength in him, for he had eaten no bread of all that day,
he was greatly troubled. Then the phitoness desired him to eat, and she slew a paschal lamb
that she had, and dighted and set it tofore him, and bread. And when he had eaten he walked
with his servants all that night. And on the morn the Philistines assailed Saul and them of
Israel, and fought a great battle, and the men of Israel fled from the face of the Philistines,
and many of them were slain in the mount of Gilboa. The Philistines smote in against Saul and
his sons, and slew Jonathan and Abinadab, and Melchi-shua, sons of Saul. And all the burden
of the battle was turned on Saul, and the archers followed him and wounded him sore. Then said
Saul to his squire: Pluck out thy sword and slay me, that these men uncircumcised come not
and, scorning, slay me; and his squire would not for he was greatly afeard. Then Saul took
his sword and slew himself, which thing when his squire saw, that is that Saul was dead, he
took his sword and fell on it and was dead with him. Thus was Saul dead, and his three sons
and his squire, and all his men that day together. The Philistines came and dwelled there,
and the next day the Philistines went for to rifle and pillage them that were dead, and they
found Saul and his three sons lying in the hill of Gilboa. And they cut off the head of Saul,
and robbed him of his armor, and sent it into the land of the Philistines all about, that it
might be showed in the temple of their idols, and unto the people; and set up his arms in the
temple of Ashtaroth, and hung his body on the wall of Bethshan. And when the men that dwelt
in Jabesh-Gilead saw what the Philistines had done unto Saul, all the strongest men of them
arose and went all that night and took down the bodies of Saul and of his sons from the wall
of Bethshan and burned them, and took the bones and buried them in the wood of Jabesh-Gilead
and fasted seven days.

Thus endeth the life of Saul which was first king upon Israel, and for disobedience of God's
commandment was slain, and his heirs never reigned long after.

THE HISTORY OF DAVID

Here followeth how David reigned after Saul, and governed Israel. Shortly taken out of the
Bible, the most historical matters and but little touched.

After the death of Saul David returned from the journey that he had against Amalek. For whilst
David had been out with Achish the king, they of Amalek had been in Ziklag and taken all that
was therein prisoners, and robbed and carried away with them the two wives of David, and had
set fire and burned the town. And when David came again home and saw the town burned he pursued
after, and by the conveying of one of them of Amalek that was left by the way sick, for to
have his life he brought David upon the host of Amalek whereas they sat and ate and drank.
And David smote on them with his meiny [company] and slew down all that he found, and rescued
his wives and all the good that they had taken, and took much more of them. And when he was
come to Ziklag, the third day after there came one from the host of Saul, and told to David
how that Israel had lost the battle, and how they were fled, and how Saul the king and Jonathan
his son were slain. David said to the young man that brought these tidings: How knowest thou
that Saul and Jonathan be dead? And he answered it was so by adventure that I came upon the
mount of Gilboa, and Saul rested upon his spear, and the horsemen and the chariots of the Philistines
approached to himward, and he looked behind him and saw me, and called me, and said to me:
Who art thou? And I said I am an Amalekite, and then he said: Stand upon me and slay me, for
I am full of anguish, and yet my soul is in me. And I then standing on him slew him, knowing
well that he might not live after the ruin. And I took the diadem from his head, and the armylle
from his arm, which I have brought hither to thee, my lord. David took and rent his vestment,
and all the men that were with him, and wailed and sorrowed much the death of Saul and Jonathan
and of all the men of Israel, and fasted that day till even. And David said to the young man:
Of whence art thou? And he said: I am the son of an Amalekite. And David said to him: Why dreadedst
thou not to put thy hand forth to slay him that is anointed of God? David called one of his
men, and bade him slay him. And he smote him and slew him. And David said: Thy blood be on
thy head! thine own mouth hath spoken against thee, saying: I have slain Saul which was king
anointed of our Lord.

David sorrowed and bewailed much the death of Saul and of Jonathan. After this David counselled
with our Lord and demanded if he should go in to one of the cities of Judah. And our Lord bade
him go, and he asked whither, and our Lord said: Into Hebron. Then David took his two wives
and all the men that were with him, every each with his household, and dwelled in the towns
of Hebron. And thither came the men of Judah and anointed David king to reign upon the tribe
of Judah. And Abner prince of the host of Saul, and other servants of Saul, took Ishbosheth
the son of Saul, and led him about, and made him king over Israel, except the tribe of Judah.
The house of Judah only followed David. After this it happed that Abner, prince of the host
of Ishbosheth, with certain men, went out of the castles, and Joab with certain men of David
went also out and ran by the piscine [pool] of Gibeon. One party was on that one side, and
that other on the other. And Abner said to Joab: Let our young men play and skirmish together,
and Joab agreed. And there rose twelve of Benjamin, of the party of Ishbosheth, and twelve
of the children of David; and when they met together each took other by the head, and roof
their swords into each other's sides and were all there slain. And there arose a great battle,
and Abner and his fellowship were put to flight by the men of David.

And among all other there was Asahel one of the brethren of Joab and was the swiftest runner
that might be, and pursued Abner, and Abner looked behind him, and bade him decline on the
right side or on the left side, and take one of the young men and his harness, and come not
at me. Asahel would not leave him; yet Abner said to him: Go from me and follow not me lest
I be compelled to slay thee, and then I may not make my peace with Joab thy brother. Which
would not hear Abner, but despised him, and Abner then turned and slew him in the same place,
and anon the sun went down and they withdrew. There were slain of the children of David nineteen
men and of them of Benjamin three hundred and sixty were slain, and thus there was long strife
and contention between the house of David and the house of Ishbosheth. After this Abner took
a concubine of Saul and held her, wherefore Ishbosheth reproved him of it and Abner was wroth
greatly thereof; and came to David and made friendship with him. Joab was not there when Abner
made his peace with David; but when he knew it he came to Abner with a fair semblant and spake
fair to him by dissimulation, and slew him for to avenge the death of Asahel his brother. And
when David heard how Joab had slain Abner he cursed him, and bewailed greatly the death of
Abner, and did do bury him [caused him to be buried] honorably, and David followed the bier
himself. And when Ishbosheth, the son of Saul, heard that Abner was dead, he was all abashed
and all Israel sore troubled. There were two princes of thieves with Ishbosheth named Baanah
and Rechab, which came on a day in to Ishbosheth where he lay and slept, and there they slew
him, and took privily his head and brought it in to David in Hebron and said: Lo, here is the
head of thine enemy Ishbosheth, that sought to slay thee; this day God hath given to thee my
lord vengeance of Saul and of his seed. David answered to them: By the living God that hath
delivered me from all anguish, him that told me that he had slain Saul, and had thought to
have had a reward of me, I did do slay, how much more ye that be so wicked to slay him that
is not guilty, in his house and upon his bed? Shall I not ask his blood of your hands, and
throw you out of this world? Yes, certainly. And David commanded to his servants to slay them,
and so they were slain, and cut off their hands and feet, and hung them on the piscine [pool]
in Hebron, and took the head of Ishbosheth and buried it in the sepulchre of Abner. And then
came all the tribes of Israel to David in Hebron, saying: We be thy mouth and thy flesh, when
Saul lived and was king on us and reigned, thou wert coming and going; and because God hath
said thou shalt reign upon my people and be their governor, therefore we shall obey thee. And
all the seniors of Israel came and did homage to David in Hebron, and anointed him king over
them. David then made him a dwelling-place in the hill of Sion in Jerusalem. And after this
the Philistines made war against him, but he oft overthrew them and slew many of them, and
made them tributary to him, and after brought the ark of God in Jerusalem, and set it in his
house. After this yet the Philistines made war again unto him and other kings were aiding and
helping them against David, whom David overcame and slew and put under.

And on a time when Joab was out with his men of war lying at a siege tofore a city, David was
at home, and walked in his chamber, and as he looked out at a window he saw a fair woman wash
her and bain her in her chamber, which stood against his house, and demanded of his servants
who she was, and they said she was Uriah's wife. And David sent letters to Joab and bade him
to send home to him Uriah; and Joab sent Uriah to David, and David demanded how the host was
ruled, and after bade him go home to his house and wash his feet. And Uriah went thence, and
the king sent to him his dish with meat. Uriah would not go home, but lay before the gate of
the king's house with other servants of the king's. And it was told to the king that Uriah
went not home, and then David said to Uriah: Thou comest from a far way, why goest thou not
home? And Uriah said to David: The ark of God and Israel and Judah be in the pavilions, and
my lord Joab and the servants of thee, my lord, lie on the ground, and would ye that I should
go to my house? By thy health and by the health of my soul I shall not do so. Then David said
to Uriah, Abide here then this night, and to-morrow I shall deliver thee. Uriah abode there
that day and the next, and David made him eat tofore him and made him drunk, yet for all that
he would not go home, but lay with the servants of David. Then on the morn David wrote a letter
to Joab, that he should set Uriah in the weakest place of the battle and where most jeopardy
was, and that he should be left there that he might be slain. And Uriah bare this letter to
Joab, and it was so done as David had written, and Uriah was slain in the battle. And Joab
sent word to David how they had fought, and how Uriah was slain and dead. When Uriah's wife
heard that her husband was dead, she mourned and wailed him; and after the mourning David sent
for her and wedded her, and she bare him a son. And this that David had committed on Uriah
displeased greatly our Lord.

Then our Lord sent Nathan the prophet unto David, which, when he came, said to him: There were
two men dwelling in a city, that one rich and that other poor. The rich man had sheep and oxen
right many, but the poor man had but one little sheep, which he bought and nourished and grew
with his children, eating of his bread and drinking of his cup, and slept in his bosom. She
was to him as a daughter. And on a time when a certain pilgrim came to the rich man, he, sparing
his own sheep and oxen to make a feast to the pilgrim that was come to him, took the only sheep
of the poor man and made meat thereof to his guest. David was wroth and said to Nathan: By
the living God, the man that hath so done is the child of death, the man that hath so done
shall yield therefor four times double. Then said Nathan to David: Thou art the same man that
hath done this thing. This said the Lord God of Israel: I have anointed thee king upon Israel,
and kept thee from the hand of Saul, and I have given to thee an house to keep in thine household
and wives in thy bosom. I have given to thee the house of Israel and the house of Judah, and
if these be small things I shall add and give to thee much more and greater. Why hast thou
therefore despised the word of God and hast done evil in the sight of our Lord? Thou hast slain
Uriah with a sword, and his wife hast thou taken unto thy wife, and thou hast slain him with
the sword of the sons of Ammon. Therefore the sword shall not go from thy house, world without
end, forasmuch as thou hast despised me and hast taken Uriah's wife unto thy wife. This said
our Lord: I shall raise evil against thee, and shall take thy wives in thy sight and give them
to thy neighbor. Thou hast done it privily, but I shall make this to be done and open in the
sight of all Israel. And then said David to Nathan: Peccavi! I have sinned against our Lord.
Nathan said: Our Lord hath taken away thy sin, thou shalt not die, but forasmuch as thou hast
made the enemy to blaspheme the name of God, therefore the son that is born to thee shall die
by death. And Nathan returned to his house. And for this sin David made this psalm: Miserere
mei deus [Have pity on me, O God!], which is a psalm of mercy, for David did great penance
for these sins of adultery and also of homicide.

Therefore God took away this sin, and forgave it him, but the son that she brought forth died.
And after this Bathsheba, that had been Uriah's wife, brought forth another son named Solomon,
which was well-beloved of God, and after David, Solomon was king.

After this David had much war and trouble and anger, insomuch that on a time Amnon, oldest
son of David, loved Thamar his sister. David knew hereof, and was right sorry for it, but he
would not rebuke his son Amnon for it, for he loved him because he was his first begotten son.
Absalom hated Amnon ever after, and when Absalom on a time did do shear his sheep he prayed
all his brethren to come eat with him, and made them a feast like a king's feast. At which
feast he did do slay his brother Amnon; and anon it was told to the King David that Absalom
had slain all the king's sons. Wherefore the king was in great heaviness and sorrow, but anon
after it was told him that there was no more slain but Amnon, and the other sons came home.
And Absalom fled into Geshur, and was there three years, and durst not come home. And after
by the moyen of Joab he was sent for, and came into Jerusalem, but yet he might not come in
his father the king's presence, and dwelled there two years, and might not see the King his
father. This Absalom was the fairest man that ever was, for from the sole of his foot unto
his head there was not a spot; he had so much hair on his head that it grieved him to bear,
wherefore it was shorn off once a year, it weighed two hundred shekels of good weight. Then
when he abode so long that he might not come to his father's presence he sent for Joab to come
speak with him, and he would not come. He sent again for him and he came not. Then Absalom
said to his servants: Know ye Joab's field that lieth by my field? They said yea. Go ye, said
he, and set fire in the barley that is therein, and burn it. And Joab's servants came and told
to Joab that Absalom had set fire on his corn. Then Joab came to Absalom and said: Why hast
thou set fire on my corn! And he said, I have sent twice to thee, praying thee to come to me
that I might send thee to the king, and that thou shouldst say to him why I came from Geshur;
it had been better for me for to have abiden there. I pray thee that I may come to his presence
and see his visage, and if he remember my wickedness let him slay me. Joab went in to the King
and told to him all these words. Then was Absalom called, and entered in to the king, and he
fell down and worshipped the king, and the king kissed him. After this Absalom did do make
for himself chariots and horsemen and fifty men for to go before him, and walked among the
tribes of Israel; and greeted and saluted them, taking them by the hand, and kissed them, by
which he gat to him the hearts of the people; and said to his father that he had avowed to
make sacrifice to God in Hebron, and his father gave him leave. And when he was there he gathered
people to him, and made himself king, and did do cry that all men should obey and wait on him
as king of Israel. When David heard this he was sore abashed and was fain to flee out of Jerusalem.
And Absalom came with his people and entered into Jerusalem into his father's house, and after
pursued his father to depose him. And David ordained his people and battle against him, and
sent Joab, prince of his host, against Absalom, and divided his host into three parts, and
would have gone with them, but Joab counselled that he should not go to the battle whatsomever
happed, and then David bade them to save his son Absalom.

And they went forth and fought, and Absalom with his host was overthrown and put to flight.
And as Absalom fled upon his mule he came under an oak, and his hair flew about a bough of
the tree and held so fast that Absalom hung by his hair, and the mule ran forth. There came
one to Joab and told him how that Absalom hung by his hair on a bough of an oak, and Joab said:
Why hast thou not slain him? The man said: God forbid that I should set hand on the king's
son; I heard the king say: keep my son Absalom alive and slay him not. Then Joab went and took
three spears, and fixed them in the heart of Absalom as he hung on the tree by his hair, and
yet after this ten young men, squires of Joab, ran and slew him. Then Joab trumped and blew
the retreat, and retained the people that they should not pursue the people flying. And they
took the body of Absalom and cast it in a great pit, and laid on him a great stone. And when
David knew that his son was slain, he made great sorrow and said: O my son Absalom, my son
Absalom, who shall grant to me that I may die for thee, my son Absalom, Absalom my son! It
was told to Joab that the king wept and sorrowed the death of his son Absalom, and all their
victory was turned into sorrow and wailing, insomuch that the people eschewed to enter into
the city. Then Joab entered in to the king and said: Thou hast this day discouraged the cheer
of all thy servants because they have saved thy life, and the lives of thy sons and daughters,
of thy wives and of thy concubines, thou lovest them that hate thee, and hatest them that love
thee, and showest well this day that thou settest little by thy dukes and servants; and truly
I know now well that if Absalom had lived and all we thy servants had been slain, thou haddest
been pleased. Therefore, arise now and come forth and satisfy the people; or else I swear to
thee by the good lord that there shall not one of thy servants abide with thee till to-morrow,
and that shall be worse to thee than all the harms and evils that ever yet fell to thee. Then
David the king arose and sat in the gate, and anon it was shown to all the people that the
king sat in the gate. And then all the people came in tofore the king, and they of Israel that
had beerv with Absalom fled into their tabernacles, and after came again unto David when they
knew that Absalom was dead.

And after, one Sheba, a cursed man, rebelled and gathered people against David. Against whom
Joab with the host of David pursued, and drove him unto a city which he besieged, and by the
means of a woman of the same city Sheba's head was smitten off and delivered to Joab over the
wall, and so the city was saved, and Joab pleased. After this David called Joab, and bade him
number the people of Israel, and so Joab walked through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan
to Beersheba, and over Jordan and all the country, and there were founden in Israel eight hundred
thousand strong men that were able to fight and to draw sword, and of the tribe of Judah fifty
thousand fighting men. And after that the people was numbered, the heart of David was smitten
by our Lord and was heavy, and said: I have sinned greatly in this deed, but I pray the Lord
to take away the wickedness of thy servant, for I have done follily. David rose on the morn
early, and the word of our Lord came to Gad the prophet saying: that he should go to David
and bid him choose one of three things that he should say to him. When Gad came to David he
said that he should choose whether he would have seven years hunger in his land, or three months
he should flee his adversaries and enemies, or to have three days' pestilence. Of these three
God biddeth thee choose which thou wilt; now advise thee and conclude what I shall answer to
our Lord. David said to Gad: I am constrained to a great thing, but it is better for me to
put me in the hands of our Lord, for his mercy is much more than in men, and so he chose pestilence.
David said to our Lord when he saw the angel smiting the people: I am he that have sinned and
done wickedly, what have these sheep done? I beseech thee that thy hand turn upon me and upon
the house of my father. Then came Gad to David and bade him make an altar in the same place
where he saw the angel; and he bought the place, and made the altar, and offered sacrifices
unto our Lord, and our Lord was merciful, and the plague ceased in Israel.

David was old and feeble and saw that his death approached, and ordained that his son Solomon
should reign and be king after him. Howbeit that Adonijah his son took on him to be king during
David's life. For which cause Bathsheba and Nathan came to David, and tofore them he said that
Solomon should be king, and ordained that he should be set on his mule by his prophets Nathan,
Zadok the priest and Benaiah, and brought in to Sion. And from thence they brought him into
Jerusalem and set him upon his father's seat in his father's throne, and David worshipped him
in his bed, and said: Blessed be the Lord God of Israel that hath suffered me to see my son
in my throne and seat And then Adonijah and all they that were with him were afeared, and dreading
Solomon ran away, and so ceased Adonijah. The days of David approached fast that he should
die, and did do call Solomon before him, and there he commanded him to keep the commandments
of our Lord and walk in his ways, and to observe his ceremonies, his precepts and his judgments,
as it is written in the law of Moses, and said: Our Lord confirm thee in thy reign, and send
to thee wisdom to rule it well. And when David had thus counselled and commanded him to do
justice and keep God's law, he blessed him and died, and was buried with his fathers. This
David was an holy man and made the holy psalter, which is an holy book and is contained therein
the old law and the new law. He was a great prophet, for he prophesied the coming of Christ,
his nativity, his passion, and resurrection, and also his ascension, and was great with God,
yet God would not suffer him to build a temple for him, for he had shed man's blood. But God
said to him, his son that should reign after him should be a man peaceable, and he should build
the temple to God. And when David had reigned forty years king of Jerusalem, over Judah and
Israel, he died in good mind, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David.

THE SONG OF DAVID

He sang of God, the mighty source
Of all things, the stupendous force
  On which all strength depends;
From whose right arm, beneath whose eyes,
All period, power, and enterprise
  Commences, reigns, and ends.

The world, the clustering spheres he made,
The glorious light, the soothing shade,
  Dale, champaign, grove, and hill:
The multitudinous abyss,
Where secrecy remains in bliss,
  And wisdom hides her skill.
Sundays observe: think, when the bells do chime,
  'Tis angels' music; therefore come not late.
God there deals blessings. If a king did so,
Who would not haste, nay give, to see the show?

--George Herbert

  O Lord, that lends me life,
Lend me a heart replete with thankfulness!

--King Henry VI., Part II.; i. I

"And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me drink of the water of the well of Bethlehem,
that is at the gate! 17-19

If any of my young friends ask why I have read this long-time-ago Bible-story as a text for
a sermon to-day, I will not only answer, but thank them for the question; for nothing helps
a speaker at the start so much as a straight, intelligent question. I have read this story
from the Chronicles, because I want to connect this beautiful occasion with some beautiful
thing in the Bible; for beautiful things go together.

My main object and desire in this service is to have everything beautiful and pure and high.
For I know how well you will remember this day in after years; I know how every feature and
incident is imprinting itself upon your minds; I know how, twenty and forty years hence, when
we older ones will be dead and gone, and you will be scattered far and wide, some in the great
cities--New York, Chicago, St. Louis--some in California, and some further off still--I know
how, on quiet June Sundays years hence, you will recall this Festival of Flowers in North Adams.
You may be in some of the great cities, or on the broad prairies, or among the park-like forests
of the Sierra, or in Puget Sound, but you will never forget this day. These familiar walls;
this pulpit and font and chancel decked with flowers; this service, made for you and in part
by you--you will never forget it. And because you will always remember it, I want to have it
throughout just as beautiful, just as pure and inspiring, as possible. The flowers will do
their part; they never fail to speak sweet, pure words to us. Your Superintendent always does
his part well, and I hope you will all thank him in your hearts, if not in words, for his faithful
and laborious interest in you. And your teachers and others who have brought together this
wealth of beauty, this glory of color and perfume, this tribute of sweetness from mountain-side
and field and garden--they have done well; and you will remember it all years hence, and when
far away, and perhaps some tears will start for "the days that are no more."

But this occasion would not be complete to my mind if there were not linked with it some noble
and inspiring trutn. I want to make all these flowers and this music the setting of a truth,
like a diamond set round with emeralds, or an opal with pearls. You have brought the pearls
and the emeralds; I must bring a diamond or an opal to set in the midst of them. I am very
sure that I have one in this old story--a diamond very brilliant if we brush away the old Hebrew
dust, and cut away the sides and let in a little more light upon it. I am not sure, however,
but I ought to call it a pearl rather than a diamond; for there is a chaste and gentle modesty
about it that reminds one of the soft lustre of a pearl rather than of the flashing splendor
of a diamond. St. John, in naming the precious stones that make the foundation of the heavenly
city, omits the diamond--and for some good reason, I suspect--while the twelve gates were all
pearls. Now, I think David stood very near one of those gates of pearl at the time of this
story. To my mind, it is nearly the most beautiful in all this Book; and I know you will listen
while I tell it more fully.

I have this impression of David--that if you had seen him when he was young, you would have
thought him the most glorious human being you had ever looked on. He was one of those persons
who fascinate all who come near them. He bound everybody to him in a wonderful way. They not
only liked him, but they became absorbed in him, and were ready to obey him, and serve him,
and to give themselves up to him in every way possible. I am not at all surprised that Saul's
son and daughter and Saul himself fell in love with, and could hardly live without, him. It
was so all along; and even after he became an old man everybody was fascinated by him--even
his old uncles--and stood ready to do his bidding and consult his wishes.

It was somewhat so with Richard Coeur de Lion and Napoleon and Mary Stuart and Alexander and
Julius Cæsar; but the personal fascination of none of these persons was so great as that of
David. In some respects he was no greater than some of these; but he had a broader and more
lovable nature than any of them, for he had what not one of them had in anything like the same
degree--a great and noble generosity. David deserved all the love that was lavished upon him,
because--let men love him ever so much--he loved more in return.

There was not apparently, at this early time of his life, one grain of selfishness about him.
You know that the word chivalry was not used till about a thousand years back, while David
lived almost three times as long ago; but he was one of the most chivalrous men that ever lived.
By chivalry I mean a union of honor, purity, religion, nobleness, bravery, and devotion to
a cause or person. David excited this chivalric devotion in others because he had so much of
it in himself. And here I will stop a moment just to say that if you want to awaken any feeling
in another toward yourself, you must first have it in yourself. I think there is a very general
notion that in order to awaken admiration and love and regard in others one must have a fine
appearance. There is a great deal of misplaced faith in fine clothes and bright eyes and clear
complexions and pretty features; but I have yet to learn that these ever win genuine love and
admiration. And so far as I have observed, a true sentiment only grows out of a corresponding
sentiment; feeling comes from feeling; in short, others come at last to feel toward us just
about as we feel toward them. And I never knew a person, young or old, to show a kind, generous,
hearty disposition to others who was not surrounded by friends. And I have seen--I know not
how many--selfish and unobliging and unsympathetic persons go friendless all their days in
spite of wealth and fine appearance. Now, put this away in your memory to think of hereafter.

It was David's great-heartedness that bound others to him. At the time of this story he was
a sort of outlaw, driven without any good reason from the court of Saul. But he was a man of
too much spirit to allow himself to be tamely killed, and he loved Saul and his family too
well to actually make war upon him, and he was too good a patriot to give trouble to his country--a
pretty hard place he had to fill, I can assure you. But he was equal to it, and simply bided
his time, drawing off into the wild and rocky regions where he could hide and also protect
himself. But he was not a man whom people would leave alone. The magnetic power that was in
him drew kindred spirits, and some that were not kindred who found it pleasanter to follow
a chief in the wilds than to live in the dull quiet of their homes. But the greater part of
them were brave, generous, devoted souls, who had come to the conclusion that to live with
David and fight his battles and share his fortunes was more enjoyable than to plod along under
Saul and his petty tyrannies. There were, in particular, eleven men of the tribe of Gad--mountaineers--fierce
as lions and swift as roes, terrible men in battle, and full of devotion to David. In this
way he got together quite a little army, which he used to defend the borders from the Philistines,
who were a thieving set, and also to defend himself in case Saul troubled him. It was not exactly
the best sort of a life for a man to live; and had not David been a person of very high principles,
his followers would have been a band of robbers living on the country. But David prevented
that, and made them as useful as was possible. His headquarters were at the cave of Adullam,
or what is now called Engedi. While here, the Philistines came on a foraging expedition as
far as Bethlehem, and with so large a force that David and his few followers were shut up in
their fortress--for how long we do not know--probably for some days. It was very dull and wearisome
business, imprisoned in a rocky defile and unable to do anything, while the Philistines were
stealing the harvests that grew on the very spot where he had spent his boyhood.

It was then that what has always seemed to me a very touching and beautiful trait of David's
character showed itself, and that is--a feeling of homesickness. Now, there is very little
respect to be had for a person who is not capable of homesickness. To give up to it may be
weak, but to be incapable of it is a bad sign. But in David it took a very poetic form. Close
by was the home where he was born. There, in Bethlehem, he had passed the dreamy years of his
childhood and youth amid the love of his parents and brothers, whom he now had with him; there
he fed his sheep and sang to his harp; and there, morning and evening, he gathered with others
about the well--the meeting-place of his companions--loved with all the passionate energy of
his nature, and still loved in spite of the troublous times that had come upon him. As David
broods over these memories, he longs with a yearning, homesick feeling for Bethlehem and its
well. And, like a poet as he was, he conceives that if he could but drink of its water, it
would relieve this feverish unrest and longing for the past. It was a very natural feeling.
You are too young to know what it means; but we who are older think of these little things
in a strange, yearning way. It is the little things of childhood that we long for--to lie under
the roof on which we heard the rain patter years and years ago; to gather fruit in the old
orchard; to fish in the same streams; to sit on the same rock, or under the same elm or maple,
and see the sun go down behind the same old hills; to drink from the same spring that refreshed
us in summer days that will not come again--you are too young for this, but we who are older
know well how David felt. He was not a man to hide his feelings, and so he uttered his longing
for the water of the well by the gate of Bethlehem. His words are overheard; and three of these
terrible followers of his--fierce as lions and fleet as deer--took their swords and fought
their way through the Philistines, slaying we know not how many, and brought back some of the
water. It was enough for them that David wanted it.

Now, some people would say that it was very foolish and sentimental of David to be indulging
in such a whim, and still more foolish in these men to gratify it at the risk of their lives;
but I think there is a better way of looking at it. If David had required them to procure the
water at the risk of their lives, it would have been very wrong; but the whole thing was unknown
to him till the water was brought. I prefer to regard it as an act of splendid heroism, prompted
by chivalric devotion, and I will not stop to consider whether or not it was sensible and prudent.
And I want to say to you that whenever you see or hear of an action that has these qualities
of heroism and generosity and devotion, it is well to admire and praise it, whether it will
bear the test of cold reason or not. I hope your hearts will never get to be so dry and hard
that they will not beat responsive to brave and noble deeds, even if they are not exactly prudent.

But David took even a higher view of this brave and tender act of his lion-faced, deer-footed
followers. It awoke his religious feelings; for our sense of what is noble and generous and
brave lies very close to our religious sensibilities. The whole event passes, in David's mind,
into the field of religion; and so what does he do? Drink the water, and praise his three mighty
warriors, and bid them never again run such risks to gratify his chance wishes? No. David looks
a great deal further into the matter than this. The act seemed to him to have a religious character;
its devotion was so complete and unselfish that it became sacred. He felt what I have just
said--that a brave and devoted act that incurs danger is almost if not quite a religious act.
And so he treats it in a religious way. He is anxious to separate it from himself, although
done for him, and get it into a service done for God; and he may have thought that he had himself
been a little selfish. To his mind it would have been a mean and low repayment to these men
to drink their water with loud praises of their valor. They had done a Godlike deed, and so
he will transfer it to God, and make it an act as between them and God. I do not know that
those lion-faced, deer-footed warriors understood or appreciated his treatment of their act;
but David himself very well knew what he was about, and you can see that he acted in a very
high and true way. He will not drink the water, but pours it out unto the Lord, and lets it
sink into the ground unused, and, because unused, a sort of sacrifice and offering to God.
Water got with such valor and risk was not for man, but for God. Much less was it right to
use it to gratify a dreamy whim that had in it perhaps just a touch of selfishness. The bravery
and danger had made the water sacred, and so he will make a sacred use of it.

If any one thinks that David was carried away by sentimentality, or that he was overscrupulous,
one has only to recall how, when actually in want, he took the consecrated bread from the Tabernacle
at Nob, and ate it and gave it to his followers. His strong common-sense told him that even
consecrated bread was not too good for hungry men; but that same fine common-sense told him
that water procured at the risk of life, when not actually wanted, had become sacred, and had
better be turned into a sort of prayer and offering to God than wantonly drunk.

And now, having the story well in mind, I will close by drawing out from it one or two lessons
that seem to me very practical.

Suppose we were to ask, Who acted in the noblest way--the three strong men who got the water,
or David, who made a sacrifice or libation of it? It does not take us long to answer. The real
greatness of the whole affair was with the three men, though David put a beautiful meaning
upon it, and exalted it to its true place. Their act was very brave and lofty; but David crowned
it with its highest grace by carrying it on into religion--that is, by setting it before God.

I see a great many people who are living worthy lives, doing a great many kind acts and rendering
beautiful services, but do not take God into their thoughts, nor render their services as unto
Him. I think everybody must see that this act of these lion-faced men was more complete when
David took it before God than as rendered for himself. Why, it might take long to tell; but,
briefly, it was because the nameless grace of religion has been added to it, and because it
was connected with that great, dear Name that hallows everything brought under it.

Many of you have brought here offerings of flowers, sweet and fit for this day and place and
purpose. Some may have brought them simply with the thought of helping out the occasion, or
to please your teacher, or because it is beautiful in itself to heap up beauty in this large
way; but if, as you worked here yesterday, or brought your flowers to-day, your thoughts silently
rose to God, saying, "These are for Thy altars--this glory of tint and perfume is not for us,
but for Thee"--then, I think, every poet, every person of fine feeling, every true thinker,
would say that the latter is more beautiful than the former. I hate to see a life that does
not take hold of God; I hate to see fine acts and brave lives and noble dispositions and generous
emotions that do not reach up into a sense of God; I hate to see persons--and I see a great
many such nowadays--striving after beautiful lives and true sentiments and large thoughts without
ever a word of prayer, or thought of God, or anything to show they love and venerate Christ.
I hate to see it, both because they might rise so much higher and because at last it fails;
for God must enter into every thought and sentiment and purpose in order to make it genuine,
and truly beautiful, and altogether right. That God may be in your thoughts; that you may learn
to confess Him in all your ways, to serve and fear and know and love him--this is the wish
with which I greet you to-day, and the prayer that I offer in your behalf.

I found, the other day, some lines by Faber--a Catholic poet--so beautifully giving this last
thought of our sermon that I will read them to you:

"Oh God! who wert my childhood's love,
  My boyhood's pure delight,
A presence felt the livelong day,
  A welcome fear at night,

"I know not what I thought of Thee;
  What picture I had made
Of that Eternal Majesty
  To whom my childhood prayed.

"With age Thou grewest more divine,
  More glorious than before;
I feared Thee with a deeper fear,
  Because I loved Thee more.

"Thou broadenest out with every year
  Each breath of life to meet.
I scarce can think Thou art the same,
  Thou art so much more sweet.

"Father! what hast Thou grown to now?
  A joy all joys above,
Something more sacred than a fear,
  More tender than a love.

"With gentle swiftness lead me on,
  Dear God! to see Thy face;
And meanwhile in my narrow heart,
  Oh, make Thyself more space."

THE HISTORY OF SOLOMON

After David, reigned Solomon his son, which was in the beginning a good man and walked in the
ways and laws of God. And all the kings about him made peace with him and was king confirmed,
obeyed and peaceable in his possession, and according to his father's commandment did justice.
First on Joab that had been prince of his father's host, because he slew two good men by treason
and guile, that was Abner the son of Ner, and Amasa the son of Ithra. And Joab was afeard and
dreaded Solomon, and fled into the Tabernacle of our Lord and held the end of the altar. And
Solomon sent Benaiah and slew him there, and after buried him in his house in desert. And after
this on a night as he lay in his bed after he had sacrificed to our Lord in Gibeon, our Lord
appeared to him in his sleep saying to him: Ask and demand what thou wilt that I may give to
thee. And Solomon said: Lord, thou hast done to my father great mercy; because he walked in
thy ways in truth, justice, and a rightful heart, thou hast always kept for him thy great mercy,
and hast given to him a son sitting upon this throne as it is this day. And now Lord thou hast
made me thy servant to reign for my father David. I am a little child and know not my going
out and entering in, and I thy servant am set in the middle of the people that thou hast chosen
which be infinite, and may not be numbered for multitude; therefore Lord give to me thy servant
a heart docile and taught in wisdom that may judge thy people, and discern between good and
evil. Who may judge this people, thy people that be so many? This request and demand pleased
much unto God that Solomon had asked such a thing. And God said to Solomon: Because thou hast
required and asked this and hast not asked long life, ne riches, ne the souls of thine enemies,
but hast asked sapience and wisdom to discern doom and judgment, I have given to thee after
thy desire and request, and I have given to thee a wise heart and understanding insomuch that
there was never none such tofore, ne never after shall be. And also those things that thou
hast not asked I have given also to thee, that is to say riches and glory, that no man shall
be like to thee among all the kings that shall be after thy days. If thou walk in my ways and
keep my precepts and observe my commandments as thy father walked, I shall make thy days long.
After this Solomon awoke and came to Jerusalem, and stood tofore the Ark of our Lord and offered
sacrifices and victims unto our Lord, and made a great feast unto all his servants and household.
Then came tofore him two women, of which that one said: I beseech thee my lord hear me; this
woman and I dwelled together in one house, and I was delivered of a child in my cubicle [sleeping
room], and the third day after she bare a child, and was also delivered, and we were together
and none other in the house but we twain, and it was so that this woman's son was dead in the
night; for she sleeping, overlaid and oppressed him, and she arose in the darkest of the night
privily, and took my son from the side of me thy servant and laid him by her, and her son that
was dead she laid by me. When I arose in the morning for to give milk to my son it appeared
dead, whom I took beholding him diligently in the clear light, understood well anon that it
was not my son that I had borne. The other woman answered and said: It was not so as thou sayest,
but my son liveth and thine is dead. And contrary that other said: Thou liest: my son liveth
and thine is dead. Thus in this wise they strove tofore the king. Then the king said: This
woman saith my son liveth and thine is dead, and this answereth Nay, but thy son is dead, and
mine liveth. Then the king said: Bring to me here a sword. When they had brought forth a sword
the king said: Divide ye, said he, the living child in two parts, and give that one half to
that one, and that other half to that other. Then said the woman that was mother of the living
child to the king, for all her members and bowels were moved upon her son: I beseech and pray
thee, my lord, give to her the child alive, and slay him not, and contrary said that other
woman: Let it not be given to me ne to thee, but let it be divided. The king then answered
and said: Give the living child to this woman, and let it not be slain; this is verily the
mother. All Israel heard how wisely the king had given this sentence and dreaded him, seeing
that the wisdom of God was in him in deeming of rightful dooms.

After this Solomon sent his messengers to divers kings for cedar trees and for workmen, for
to make and build a temple unto our Lord. Solomon was rich and glorious, and all the realms
from the river of the ends of the Philistines unto the end of Egypt were accorded with him,
and offered to him gifts and to serve him all the days of his life. He obtained all the region
that was from Tiphsa unto Azza, and had peace with all the kings of all the realms that were
in every part round about him. In that time Israel and Judah dwelled without fear and dread,
every each under his vine and fig tree from Dan unto Beersheba.

Solomon had forty thousand racks for the horses of his carts, chariots and cars, and twelve
thousand for horses to ride on, by which prefects brought necessary things for the table of
King Solomon, with great diligence in their time. God gave to Solomon much wisdom and prudence
in his heart, like to the gravel that is in the sea-side, and the sapience and wisdom of Solomon
passed and went tofore the sapience of all them of the Orient and of Egypt, and he was the
wisest of all men, and so he was named. He spake three thousand parables, and five thousand
songs, and disputed upon all manner trees and virtue of them, from the cedar that is in Lebanon
unto the hissop that groweth on the wall, and discerned the properties of beasts, fowls, reptiles
and fishes, and there came people from all regions of the world for to hear the wisdom of Solomon,

And Solomon sent letters to Hiram, king of Tyre, for to have his men to cut cedar trees with
his servants, and he would yield to them their hire and meed, and let him wit how that he would
build and edify a temple to our Lord. And Hiram sent to him that he should have all that he
desired, and sent to him cedar trees and other wood. And Solomon sent to him corn in great
number, and Solomon and Hiram confederated them together in love and friendship. Solomon had
seventy thousand men that did nothing but bear stone and mortar and other things to the edifying
of the temple, and were bearers of burdens only, and he had eighty thousand of hewers of stone
and masons in the mountain, without the prefects and masters, which were three thousand three
hundred that did nothing but command and oversee them that wrought. Solomon commanded the workmen
to make square stones, great and precious, for to lay in the foundament, which the masons of
Israel and masons of Hiram hewed, and the carpenters made ready the timber.

Then began Solomon the temple to our Lord, in the fourth year of his reign he began to build
the temple. The house that he builded had seventy cubits in length, and twenty cubits in breadth,
and thirty in height, and the porch tofore the temple was twenty cubits long after the measure
of the breadth of the temple, and had ten cubits of breadth tofore the face of the temple,
and for to write the curiosity and work of the temple, and the necessaries, the tables and
cost that was done in gold, silver and latten, it passeth my cunning to express and English
them. Ye that be clerks may see it in the Second Book of Kings and the Second Book of Paralipomenon.
It is wonder to hear the costs and expenses that was made in that temple, but I pass over.
It was on making seven years, and his palace was thirteen years ere it was finished. He made
in the temple an altar of pure gold, and a table to set on the loaves of proposition of gold,
five candlesticks of gold on the right side and five on the left side, and many other things,
and took all the vessels of gold and silver that his father David had sanctified and hallowed,
and brought them into the treasury of the house of our Lord. After this he assembled all the
noblest and greatest of birth of them of Israel, with the princes of the tribes and dukes of
the families, for to bring the Ark of God from the city of David, Sion, into the temple. And
the priests and Levites took the Ark and bare it and all the vessels of the sanctuary that
were in the tabernacle. King Solomon, with all the multitude of the children that were there,
went tofore the Ark and offered sheep and oxen without estimation and number.

And the priests set the Ark in the house of our Lord in the oracle of the temple, in sancta
sanctorum, under the wings of cherubim. In the ark was nothing but the two tables of Moses
of stone which Moses had put in. And then Solomon blessed our Lord tofore all the people, and
thanked him that he had suffered him to make an house unto his name, and besought our Lord
that he whosomever prayed our Lord for any petition in that temple, that he of his mercy would
hear him and be merciful to him. And our Lord appeared to him when the edifice was accomplished
perfectly, and said to Solomon: I have heard thy prayer and thine oration that thou hast prayed
tofore me. I have sanctified and hallowed this house that thou hast edified for to put my name
therein for evermore, and my eyes and heart shall be thereon always. And if thou walk before
me like as thy father walked in the simplicity of heart and in equity, and wilt do all that
I have commanded thee, and keep my judgments and laws, I shall set the throne of thy reign
upon Israel evermore, like as I have said to thy father David, saying: There shall not be taken
away a man of thy generation from the reign and seat of Israel. If ye avert and turn from me,
ye and your sons, not following ne keeping my commandments and ceremonies that I have showed
tofore you, but go and worship strange gods, and honor them, I shall cast away Israel from
the face of the earth that I have given to them, and the temple that I have hallowed to my
name, I shall cast it away from my sight. And it shall be a fable and proverb, and thy house
an example shall be to all people; every man that shall go thereby shall be abashed and astonied,
and shall say: Why hath God done thus to this land and to thy house? And they shall answer:
For they have forsaken their Lord God that brought them out of the land of Egypt, and have
followed strange gods, and them adored and worshipped, and therefore God hath brought on them
all this evil: here may every man take ensample how perilous and dreadful it is to break the
commandment of God.

Twenty years after that Solomon had edified the temple of God and his house, and finished it
perfectly, Hiram the king of Tyre went for to see towns that Solomon had given to him, and
they pleased him not. Hiram had sent to King Solomon an hundred and twenty besants of gold,
which he had spent on the temple and his house, and on the wall of Jerusalem and other towns
and places that he had made. Solomon was rich and glorious that the fame ran, of his sapience
and wisdom and of his building and dispense in his house, through the world, insomuch that
the queen of Sheba came from far countries to see him and to tempt him in demands and questions.
And she came into Jerusalem with much people and riches, with camels charged with aromatics
and gold infinite. And she came and spake to King Solomon all that ever she had in her heart.
And Solomon taught her in all that ever she purposed tofore him. She could say nothing but
that the king answered to her, there was nothing hid from him. The queen of Sheba then seeing
all the wisdom of Solomon, the house that he had builded, and the meat and service of his table,
the habitacles of his servants, the order of the ministers, their clothing and array, his butlers
and officers, and the sacrifices that he offered in the house of our Lord, when she saw all
these things, she had no spirit to answer, but she said to King Solomon: The word is true that
I heard in my land, of thy words and thy wisdom, and I believed not them that told it to me,
unto the time that I myself came and have seen it with mine eyes, and I have now well seen
and proved that the half was not told to me. Thy sapience is more, and thy works also, than
the tidings that I heard. Blessed be thy servants, and blessed be these that stand always tofore
thee and hear thy sapience and wisdom, and thy Lord God be blessed whom thou hast pleased,
and hath set thee upon the throne of Israel, for so much as God of Israel loveth thee and hath
ordained thee a king for to do righteousness and justice. She gave then to the king an hundred
and twenty besants of gold, many aromatics, and gems precious. There were never seen tofore
so many aromatics ne so sweet odors smelling as the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon.

King Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all that ever she desired and demanded of him, and
after returned into her country and land. The weight of pure gold that was offered every year
to Solomon was six hundred and sixty-six talents of gold, except that that the merchants offered,
and all they that sold, and all the kings of Arabia and dukes of that land. Solomon made two
hundred shields of the purest gold and set them in the house of Lebanon; he made him also a
throne of ivory which was great and was clad with gold, which had six grees or steps, which
was richly wrought with two lions of gold holding the seat above, and twelve small lions standing
upon the steps, on every each twain, here and there. There was never such a work in no realm.
And all the vessels that King Solomon drank of were of gold, and the ceiling of the house of
Lebanon in which his shields of gold were in was of the most pure gold. Silver was of no price
in the days of King Solomon, for the navy of the king, with the navy of Hiram, went in three
years once into Tarsis and brought them thence gold and silver, teeth of elephants and great
riches. The King Solomon was magnified above all the kings of the world in riches and wisdom,
and all the world desired to see the cheer and visage of Solomon, and to hear his wisdom that
God had given to him. There was as great abundance and plenty of gold and silver in those days
in Jerusalem as stones or sycamores that grow in the field, and horses were brought to him
from Egypt and Chao. What shall I all day write of the riches, glory and magnificence of King
Solomon? It was so great that it cannot be expressed, for there was never none like to him,
ne never shall none come after him like unto him. He made the book of the parables containing
thirty-one chapters, the book of the Canticles, the book of Ecclesiastes, containing twelve
chapters, and the book of Sapience containing nineteen chapters. This King Solomon loved overmuch
women, and specially strange women of other sects; as King Pharaoh's daughters and many other
of the gentiles. He had seven hundred wives which were as queens, and three hundred concubines,
and these women turned his heart. For when he was old he so doted and loved them that they
made him honor their strange gods, and worshipped Ashtareth, Chemosh and Moloch, idols of Zidonia,
of Moabites, and Ammonites, and made to them Tabernacles for to please his wives and concubines,
wherefore God was wroth with him, and said to him: Because thou hast not observed my precepts
and my commandments that I commanded thee, I shall cut thy kingdom and divide it and give it
to thy servant but not in thy day, I shall not do it for love that I had to David thy father;
but from the hand of thy son I shall cut it but not all, I shall reserve to him one tribe for
David's love, and Jerusalem that I have chosen. And after this divers kings became adversaries
to Solomon, and was never in peace after.

It is said, but I find it not in the Bible, that Solomon repented him much of this sin of idolatry
and did much penance therefor, for he let him be drawn through Jerusalem and beat himself with
rods and scourges, that the blood flowed in the sight of all the people. He reigned upon all
Israel in Jerusalem forty years, and died and was buried with his fathers in the city of David,
and Rehoboam his son reigned after him.

THE HISTORY OF REHOBOAM

After Solomon, reigned his son Rehoboam. He came to Sichem and thither came all the people
for to ordain him king. Jeroboam and all the multitude of Israel spake to Rehoboam, and said:
Thy father set on us an hard yoke and great impositions, now thou hast not so much need, therefore
less it and minish it, and ease us of the great and hard burden and we shall serve thee. Rehoboam
answered and said: Go ye and come again the third day and ye shall have an answer. When the
people was departed, Rehoboam made a counsel of the seniors and old men that had assisted his
father Solomon whiles he lived, and said to them: What say ye? and counsel me that I may answer
to the people, which said to Rohoboam: If thou wilt obey and agree to this people, and agree
to their petition, and speak fair and friendly to them, they shall serve thee always. But Rehoboam
forsook the counsel of the old men, and called the young men that were of his age, and asked
of them counsel. And the young men that had been nourished with him bade him say to the people
in this wise: Is not my finger greater than the back of my father? If my father hath laid on
you a heavy burden, I shall add and put more to your burden; my father beat you with scourges,
and I shall beat you with scorpions. The third day after, Jeroboam and all the people came
to Rehoboam to have their answer, and Rehoboam left the counsel of the old men, and said to
them like as the young men had counselled him. And anon the people of Israel forsook Rehoboam,
and of twelve tribes, there abode with him no more but the tribe of Judah and Benjamin. And
the other ten tribes departed and made Jeroboam their king, and never returned unto the house
of David after unto this day. And thus for sin of Solomon, and because Rehoboam would not do
after the counsel of the old men, but was counselled by young men, the ten tribes of Israel
forsook him, and departed from Jerusalem, and served Jeroboam, and ordained him king upon Israel.
Anon after this, Jeroboam fell to idolatry and great division was ever after between the kings
of Judah and the kings of Israel. And so reigned divers kings each after other in Jerusalem
after Rehoboam, and in Israel after Jeroboam. And here I leave all the history and make an
end of the book of Kings for this time, etc. For ye that list to know how every king reigned
after other, ye may find it in the first chapter of Saint Matthew which is read on Christmas
day in the morning before Te Deum, which is the genealogy of our Lady.

A LITTLE MAID

BY THEODORE T. MUNGER

[From "Lamps and Paths," by courtesy of Houghton, Mifflin & Co.]

In old days we read of angels who came and took men by the hand, and led them away from the
city of Destruction. And she said unto her mistress. Would God my lord were with the prophet
that is in Samaria! for he would recover him of his leprosy."--2 KINGS v. 1-3

I think upon the whole that old stories are better than new ones; I mean, stories of old times.
It is perhaps because only the very best are remembered while the poorer ones are forgotten,
so that those which have come down to us through past ages are the choice ones selected from
a great number that pleased people for a while, but not well nor long enough to get fixed in
their minds.

Of all old stories, I hardly know a better one than this of Naaman and the little maid from
Samaria. It is full of human nature; that is, it shows that people acted and felt three thousand
years ago just as they do now: they were kind and sympathetic, and proud and grateful and covetous
and deceitful, just as people are nowadays. And the story has a fine romantic setting; that
is, its incidents take hold of our fancy and charm us;--a little girl stolen in war and carried
to a foreign country and put into the house of a great general, who falls very ill and is cured
in a wonderful way, and so on. I think it will please us all to hear it over again.

Syria and Israel stood to each other very much like Germany and Switzerland. One was a great,
rich country, with fine rivers like the Rhine and Danube, and a capital city so beautiful that
it was called "the eye of the East"; while Israel was a small country, full of mountains, and
with only one small river that ran nearly dry in summer. To tell the truth, Syria looked down
on Israel, and--what is worse--often made war on it. In those days war was even more cruel
and senseless than it is now; for it was not confined to the armies that fought and captured
one another, but extended to women and children, who were often seized, carried away from their
homes into the country of the enemy, and made slaves. It is bad and senseless enough for men
to stand up and stab one another as they used to in old times, or shoot one another as they
do now; but to carry a mother away from her children, or take a little girl away from her home
and playmates and make a slave of her, is something worse. But it was often done in those ancient
days, as you will learn when you read history, and the story of the siege of Troy, which sprang
out of stealing a beautiful woman.

There were frequent wars between Syria and Israel. Israel had once conquered Syria, and Syria
had broken away, and so it went on back and forth, year after year. When our story begins,
Naaman, a great general, had delivered his country from Israel, and brought home with him a
little Hebrew girl, who was so beautiful and sweet in her ways that he gave her to his wife
on his return from the war. A strange present, you say, but it proved a very valuable one.
It seems to us very cruel. One would think that if Naaman and his wife loved this little girl--and
I am sure they did--they would have sent her back to her home, for she must have had a heartbreaking
time of it at first; but people were not kind in that way in those days. Yes, I am sure they
loved her and were kind to her, for the simple reason that she evidently loved them; and I
am also sure that the reason they loved her was that they could not help it, as we shall see
further on.

Not long after the war, Naaman was attacked with a disease so dreadful and repulsive that I
cannot describe it to you. Let us be thankful that leprosy is unknown here. It is not only
incurable, but as it goes on it becomes so terrible that one cannot stay at home with his family,
but must go out and live alone, or with other lepers, and wait for death, which often does
not happen for years. It was a sad time for the great Naaman when he discovered that it had
seized him. He felt well and strong, but the fearful signs made it sure. It was a sadder time
when he told his wife; for both knew that the day would soon come when they could no longer
stay together at home, and that he must leave beautiful Damascus, and give up his place in
the army, and go off into the mountains and live alone, or with others like himself. The saddest
feature of all was that there was no hope: all this was sure to take place. If you have ever
been in a house where some one is very ill and likely to die, or some terrible accident has
occurred, you have felt what a gloom overhangs it, and have been glad to escape from it and
get out under the open sky. But our little Hebrew girl could not escape. She must stay through
it all, and wait on Naaman's wife, and see her weep and Naaman's strong face grow sadder every
day. Now I think we shall begin to see what a rare, noble, sweet child this was that we are
talking about. What a pity that we do not know her name--for she is a nameless child! I would
like to call her Anna if I had any right to leave off the H that the Hebrews put before and
after this beautiful name. And I should not change it by turning the a at the close into ie,
as so many young people--and older ones, too, who ought to know better--are in the habit of
doing; for I never could understand why girls with so noble names as Anna and Mary and Helen
and Margaret and Caroline should change them into the weak and silly forms that we hear every
day. This change, which usually shortens the name and ends it with an ie, is called a diminutive,
which, according to Worcester, means "a thing little of its kind," and so may well enough be
used in the nursery; but that grown women should use it seems to me foolish and even ignoble,
and I often fear it may indicate a lack of fine sentiment. We do not know the name of our little
maiden, but we can safely imagine her appearance for two reasons: we know her circumstances
and her character. Is it not quite sure that when Naaman selected from his captives a little
girl to wait on his wife, he would take the most beautiful one? When we make presents to those
we love, we always get the best we can. Now we can go a step further, and ask what made her
beautiful in such a way that Naaman thought she would please his wife. It must have been her
sweet and amiable expression; and that came from her character, for nothing else can make beauty
of this sort. And so we picture her with black, wavy hair and soft, dark eyes, with red cheeks
glowing through an olive-colored skin, lips like a pomegranate, a sweet, patient, loving expression,
and a voice "gentle and low" and full of sympathy and readiness. I am very sure about her voice
and expression, because I know her character. I never have seen any one with a loving and helpful
spirit who had not a gentle voice and a sweet expression. I think she must have been about
twelve years old; for if she had been younger she would not have known all about Elisha, and
if older she would not have been called "a little maid."

When the trouble came upon Naaman's family, she felt it grievously, and was more attentive
and gentle in her services than ever. Just here she showed the beauty of her character. She
had been cruelly wronged--stolen away from her country and home, and made a slave without hope
of ever seeing them again--and so might naturally feel revengeful, and say that Naaman's leprosy
was a punishment for the wrong he had done her. But instead she pitied him, and in her sympathy
with his sufferings forgot her own. So, as she brooded on the trouble, she happened to remember
one day that Elisha had cured people who were very ill, and done many wonderful things, and
she said to her mistress, "Would God my lord were with the prophet that is in Samaria! for
he would recover him of his leprosy." Probably Naaman's wife questioned her closely about Elisha,
and got at all she knew about him, and so heard about the child that fell sick among the reapers,
and the poor widow whose two sons were to be sold as slaves, and the mantle of Elijah, that
Elisha had caught upon the banks of the Jordan, with which he smote the waters. At any rate,
she heard enough to awaken some hope, and so told her husband what our little maid had said.
When people are hopelessly ill, they are willing to try anything; a drowning man will catch
at a straw, and Naaman caught at this little straw of hope that the wind of war had blown across
his path. He thought it over and said to himself, "It is my only chance; no one here can do
anything for me. I will go down to Samaria and find Elisha. I have often heard that the prophets
there did wonderful things; if what the little maid says of the boy among the reapers is true,
perhaps Elisha can cure me." And so he went; but it was very humiliating. He thought of Israel
and the little city of Samaria and the Jordan in a scornful way, comparing them with his splendid
Damascus, and its green, beautiful plain, thirty miles wide, and the great river Abana, that
gushed from the side of the mountain, and flowed through and all about the city, making the
whole country one vast garden. He despised, too, the people of Israel. They were rude and poor
and ignorant, while his own people were rich and cultivated. Perhaps he had borne himself proudly
when he was at war there; and now to go back and ask favors--to ask for himself what he could
not get at home--was humiliating indeed. But he made the best of it; and to cover his pride
and make it seem as though he were not asking favors, he took with him an immense amount of
silver and gold, and ten suits of raiment--perhaps of linen damask, that was first made in
Damascus.

I shall not follow the story further, except to say that because Naaman went in such a proud
spirit, Elisha used every means to make him humble. He seemed to be anxious to send Naaman
home, not only a well, but a better man, and to teach him that there were other things to be
thought of than great rivers, and fine cities, and temples of Rimmon. Especially he wanted
to teach him that the one, true God could make a small, rough nation greater and stronger than
one that worshipped idols. Naaman went home cured of his leprosy, with some earth to make an
altar of, and all his gold and silver and fine garments, except what the foolish Gehazi got
from him by lying. How Naaman proposed to act when he should get home and be forced to go with
the king into the temple of Rimmon, you will find discussed in the second chapter of the second
part of "School Days at Rugby." My opinion is that Elisha told him he must settle that matter
with his own conscience; but I can imagine that when he had worshipped God before the altar
built of the earth brought from the Jordan, and then went into the temple of Rimmon and did
what the king did, his conscience must have troubled him.

But I care a great deal more for our little maid than for Naaman. I wonder what became of her.
If Naaman did what he ought, he sent her back to her home, and gave her all the gold and silver
he had offered to Elisha. I am quite inclined to believe this for several reasons. Naaman was
a reasonable man. When he was told to "go and wash himself seven times in Jordan," he was surprised
and angry, because it was so different from what he had expected, and because he thought it
was an insult to his own great rivers. But when his servants reminded him that it was just
as easy to do a little thing as a great thing, he saw the wisdom of it, and let good sense
triumph over pride. He was also a generous man, as the gifts he offered to Elisha show. And
he was conscientious, or he would not have asked Elisha about bowing down in the temple of
Rimmon as a part of his duty to the king. All through he showed himself grateful. Yes; I think
he went back to Syria not only with "the flesh of a little child," but with a child's heart.
And because he was reasonable and generous and conscientious and grateful, he did not forget
the little maid who was at the bottom of the whole affair. He owed quite as much to her as
to Elisha; for people who start good enterprises deserve more praise and reward than those
who carry them out. So, when he reached home and met his wife and children--why, it was almost
like coming back from the dead!--his first thought must have been of the little maid. We can
imagine the great Naaman taking her in his arms with tears, and saying, "What can I do for
you, my little maid? Tell me what you most want, and I will give it to you, even if it is the
half of my possessions." We know that Eastern princes often said such things when their fancy
or their gratitude was deeply stirred; they gave full course to all their feelings, good and
bad. Perhaps she had become fond of Naaman's wife, and would like to stay with her. Perhaps
they told her they would adopt her, and clothe her with rich damask and jewels of gold and
silver. But I doubt if she was a child who cared more for such things than for her parents
and her home. And as she heard the story of Naaman's cure, and of Elisha and the Jordan, her
mind went back to her native land and to her home, and a great longing filled her heart to
see it again, and to live the old life with her parents and brothers and sisters. The Jews
do not easily forget their country nor their families; and this little maid was a true Jewess.
It might be a fine thing to live in a palace and wear jewels, but she would rather go home,
and tend the sheep and goats, and pick the grapes, and go to the fountain for water. Perhaps
she had lived on the slope of Hermon, where the dew fell heavily every night, and the brooks
ran full all summer; for Naaman's march home led near it.

We found her in Damascus a slave; but we will leave her at home among the vines and flowers
and kids, with father and mother and mates, for sh'e was a child who lived in her affections
rather than in her ambitions.

The chief thing she teaches us is the beauty and blessedness of returning good for evil. Long
before Christ's day she was Christ's own child; for she loved her enemies, and prayed for those
who had persecuted her.

HERE FOLLOWETH THE HISTORY OF JOB

Read on the first Sunday of September

There was a man in the land of Uz named Job, and this man was simple, rightful and dreading
God, and going from all evil. He was a great man and rich among all the men of the orient.
And his sons went daily each to other house making great feasts, ever each one as his day came,
and they sent for their three sisters for to eat and drink with them. When they had thus feasted
each other, Job sent to them and blessed and sanctified them, and rising every day early, he
offered sacrifices for them all, saying: Lest my children sin and bless not God in their hearts.
And thus did Job every day.

On a day when the sons of God were tofore our Lord, Satan came and was among them, to whom
our Lord said: Whence comest thou? Which answered, I have gone round about the earth and through
walked it. Our Lord said to him: Hast thou not considered my servant Job, that there is none
like unto him in the earth, a man simple, rightful, dreading God, and going from evil? To whom
Satan answered: Doth Job dread God idly? If so were that thou overthrewest him, his house and
all his substance round about, he should soon forsake thee. Thou hast blest the work of his
hands, and his possession is increased much in the earth, but stretch out thy hand a little,
and touch all that he hath in possession, and he shall soon grudge and not bless thee. Then
said our Lord to Satan: Lo! all that which he owneth and hath in possession, I will it be in
thy hand and power, but on his person ne body set not thy hand. Satan departed and went from
the face of our Lord. On a day as his sons and daughters ate, and drank wine, in the house
of the oldest brother, there came a messenger to Job which said: The oxen eared in the plough
and the ass pastured in the pasture by them, and the men of Sabea ran on them, and smote thy
servants, and slew them with sword, and I only escaped for to come and to show it to thee.
And whiles he spake came another and said: The fire of God fell down from heaven and hath burned
thy sheep and servants and consumed them, and I only escaped for to come and show it to thee.
And yet whiles he spake came another and said: The Chaldees made three hosts and have enveigled
thy camels and taken them, and have slain thy servants with sword, and I only escaped for to
bring thee word. And yet he speaking another entered in and said: Thy sons and daughters, drinking
wine in the house of thy first begotten son, suddenly came a vehement wind from the region
of desert and smote the four corners of the house, which falling oppressed thy children, and
they be all dead, and I only fled for to tell it to thee. Then Job arose, and cut his coat,
and did do shave his head, and falling down to the ground, worshipped and adored God, saying:
I am come out naked from the womb of my mother and naked shall return again thereto. Our Lord
hath given and our Lord hath taken away, as it hath pleased our Lord, so it is done, the name
of our Lord be blessed. In all these things Job sinned not with his lips, ne spake nothing
follily against our Lord, but took it all patiently.

After this it was so that on a certain day when the children of God stood tofore our Lord,
Satan came and stood among them, and God said to him: Whence comest thou? To whom Satan answered:
I have gone round the earth, and walked through it. And God said to Satan, Hast thou not considered
my servant Job that there is no man like him in the earth, a man simple, rightful, dreading
God, and going from evil, and yet retaining his innocency? Thou hast moved me against him that
I should put him to affliction without cause. To whom Satan said: Skin for skin, and all that
ever a man hath he shall give for his soul. Nevertheless, stretch thine hand and touch his
mouth and his flesh, and thou shalt see that he shall not bless thee. Then said God to Satan:
I will well that his body be in thine hand, but save his soul and his life. Then Satan departed
from the face of our Lord and smote Job with the worst blotches and blains from the plant of
his foot, unto the top of his head, which was made like a lazar [leper] and was cast out and
sat on the dunghill. Then came his wife to him and said: Yet thou abidest in thy simpleness,
forsake thy God and bless him no more, and go die. Then Job said to her: Thou hast spoken like
a foolish woman; if we have received and taken good things of the hand of our Lord, why shall
we not sustain and suffer evil things? In all these things Job sinned not with his lips. Then
three men that were friends of Job, hearing what harm was happed and come to Job, came ever
each one from his place to him, that one was named Eliphas the Temanite, another Bildad the
Shuhite, and the third, Zophar Naamathite. And when they saw him from far they knew him not,
and crying they wept. They came for to comfort him, and when they considered his misery they
tare their clothes and cast dust on their heads, and sat by him seven days and seven nights,
and no man spake to him a word, seeing his sorrow. Then after that Job and they talked and
spake together of his sorrow and misery, of which S. Gregory hath made a great book called:
The morals of S. Gregory, which is a noble book and a great work.

But I pass over all the matters and return unto the end, how God restored Job again to prosperity.
It was so that when these three friends of Job had been long with Job, and had said many things
each of them to Job, and Job again to them, our Lord was wroth with these three men and said
to them: Ye have not spoken rightfully, as my servant Job hath spoken. Take ye therefore seven
bulls and seven wethers and go to my servant Job and offer ye sacrifice for you. Job my servant
shall pray for you. I shall receive his prayer and shall take his visage. They went forth and
did as our Lord commanded them. And our Lord beheld the visage of Job, and saw his penance
when he prayed for his friends. And our Lord added to Job double of all that Job had possessed.
All his brethren came to him, and all his sisters, and all they that tofore had known him,
and ate with him in his house, and moved their heads upon him, and comforted him upon all the
evil that God had sent to him. And each of them gave him a sheep and a gold ring for his ears.
And he had seven sons and three daughters. And the first daughter's name was Jemima, the second
Kezia, and the third Keren-happuch. There was nowhere found in the world so fair women as were
the daughters of Job. Their father Job gave to them heritage among their brethren, and thus
Job by his patience gat so much love of God, that he was restored double of all his losses.
And howbeit that he was youngest in all the tribe of Nephthali yet did he nothing childishly.
Also when all other went unto the golden calves that Jeroboam, King of Israel, had made, this
Tobit only fled the fellowship of them all, and went to Jerusalem into the temple of our Lord.
And there he adored and worshipped the Lord God of Israel, offering truly his first fruits
and tithes insomuch that in the third year he ministered unto proselytes and strangers all
the tithe. Such things and other like to these he observed while he was a child, and when he
came to age and was a man he took a wife named Anna, of his tribe, and begat on her a son,
naming after his own name Tobias, whom from his childhood he taught to dread God and abstain
him from all sin. Then after when he was brought by captiviy with his wife and his son into
the city of Nineveh with all his tribe, and when all ate of the meats of the Gentiles and Paynims,
this Tobit kept his soul clean and was never defouled in the meats of them. And because he
remembered our Lord in all his heart, God gave him grace to be in the favor of Salmanazar the
king which gave to him power to go where he would. Having liberty to do what he would, he went
then to all them in captivity and gave to them warnings of health. When he came on a time in
Rages, city of the Jews, he had such gifts as he had been honored with of the king, ten besants
of silver. And when he saw one Gabael being needy which was of his tribe, he lent him the said
weight of silver upon his obligation. Long time after this when Salmanazar the king was dead,
Sennacherib his son reigned for him, and hated, and loved not, the children of Israel. And
Tobit went unto all his kindred and comforted them, and divided to every each of them as he
might of his faculties and goods.

He fed the hungry and gave to the naked clothes, and diligently he buried the dead men and
them that were slain. After this when Sennacherib returned, fleeing the plague from the Jewry,
that God had sent him for his blasphemy, and he, being wroth, slew many of the children of
Israel, and Tobit always buried the bodies of them, which was told to the king, which commanded
to slay him, and took away all his substance. Tobit then with his wife and his son hid him
and fled away all naked, for many loved him well. After this, forty-five days, the sons of
the king slew the king, and then returned Tobit unto his house, and all his faculties and goods
were restored to him again. After this on a high festival day of our Lord when that Tobit had
a good dinner in his house, he said to his son: Go and fetch to us some of our tribe dreading
God, that they may come and eat with us. And he went forth and anon he returned telling to
his father that one of the children of Israel was slain and lay dead in the street. And anon
he leapt out of his house, leaving his meat, and fasting came to the, body, took it and bare
it in to his house privily, that he might secretly bury it when the sun went down. And when
he had hid the corpse, he ate his meat with wailing and dread, remembering that word that our
Lord said by Amos the prophet: The day of your feast shall be turned into lamentation and wailing.
And when the sun was gone down he went and buried him. All his neighbors reproved and chid
him, saying for this cause they were commanded to be slain, and unnethe [hardly] thou escapedst
the commandment of death, and yet thou buriest dead men. But Tobit, more dreading God than
the king, took up the bodies of dead men and hid them in his house, and at midnight he buried them.

It happed on a day after this that when he was weary of burying dead men, he came home and
laid him down by a wall and slept. And he became blind. This temptation suffered God to fall
to him, that it should be an example to them that shall come after him of his patience, like
as it was of holy Job. For from his infancy he dreaded ever God and kept his precepts and was
not grudging against God for his blindness, but he abode immovable in the dread of God, giving
and rendering thankings to God all the days of his life. For like as Job was assailed so was
Tobit assailed of his kinsmen, scorning him and saying to him: Where is now thy hope and reward
for which thou gavest thy alms and madest sepulchres? Tobit blamed them for such words, saying
to them: In no wise say ye not so, for we be the sons of holy men, and we abide that life that
God shall give to them that never shall change their faith from him. Anna his wife went daily
to the work of weaving, and got by the labor of her hands their livelihood as much as she might.
Whereof on a day she gat a kid and brought it home. When Tobit heard the voice of the kid bleating,
he said: See that it be not stolen, yield it again to the owner, for it is not lawful for us
to eat ne touch anything that is stolen. To that his wife all angry answered: Now manifestly
and openly is thine hope made vain, and thy alms lost. And thus with such and like words she
chid him. Then Tobit began to sigh and began to pray our Lord with tears saying: O Lord, thou
art rightful, and all thy dooms be true, and all thy ways be mercy, truth, and righteousness.
And now, Lord, remember me, and take now no vengeance of my sins, ne remember not my trespasses,
ne the sins of my fathers. For'we have not obeyed thy commandments, therefore we be betaken
in to direption, captivity, death, fables, and into reproof and shame to all nations in which
thou hast dispersed us. And now, Lord, great be thy judgments, for we have not done according
to thy precepts, ne have not walked well tofore thee. And now, Lord, do to me after thy will,
and command my spirit to be received in peace, it is more expedient to me to die than to live.

The same day it happed that Sara, daughter of Raguel in the city of Medes, that she was rebuked
and heard reproof of one of the handmaidens of her father. For she had been given to seven
men, and a devil named Asmodeus slew them as soon as they would have gone to her; therefore
the maid reproved her saying: We shall never see son ne daughter of thee on the earth, thou
slayer of thy husbands. Wilt thou slay me as thou hast slain seven men? With this voice and
rebuke she went up in the upperest cubicle of the house. And three days and three nights she
ate not, ne drank not, but was continually in prayers beseeching God for to deliver her from
this reproof and shame. And on the third day, when she had accomplished her prayer, blessing
our Lord she said: Blessed be thy name, God of our fathers, for when thou art wroth thou shalt
do mercy and in a time of tribulation thou forgivest sins to them that call to thee. Unto thee,
Lord, I convert my visage, and unto thee I address mine eyes. I ask and require thee that thou
assoil me from the bond of the reproof and shame, or certainly upon the earth keep me. Thou
knowest well, Lord, that I never desired man, but I have kept clean my soul. I never meddled
me with players, ne never had part of them that walk in lightness. I consented for to take
an husband with thy dread. Or I was unworthy to them or haply they were unworthy to me, or
haply thou hast conserved and kept me for some other man. Thy counsel is not in man's power.
This knoweth every man that worshippeth thee, for the life of him if it be in probation shall
be crowned, and if it be in tribulation it shall be delivered, and if it be in correction,
it shall be lawful to come to mercy. Thou hast none delectation in our perdition, for after
tempest thou makest tranquillity, and after weeping and shedding of tears thou bringest in
exultation and joy. Thy name, God of Israel, be blessed, world without end.

In that same time were the prayers of them both heard in the sight of the glory of the high
God. And the holy angel of God, Raphael, was sent to heal them both. Of whom in one time were
the prayers recited in the sight of our Lord God. Then when Tobit supposed his prayers to be
heard that he might die, he called to him his son Tobias, and said to him: Hear, my son, the
words of my mouth, and set them in thy heart as a fundament. When God shall take away my soul,
bury my body, and thou shalt worship thy mother all the days of her life, thou owest to remember
what and how many perils she hath suffered for thee in her womb. When she shall have accomplished
the time of her life, bury her by me. All the days of thy life have God in thy mind, and beware
that thou never consent to sin, ne to disobey ne break the commandments of God. Of thy substance
do alms, and turn never thy face from any poor man, so do that God turn not his face from thee.
As much as thou mayst, be merciful, if thou have much good give abundantly, if thou have but
little, yet study to give and to depart thereof gladly, for thou makest to thee thereof good
treasure and meed in the day of necessity, for alms delivereth a man from all sin and from
death, and suffereth not his soul to go in to darkness. Alms is a great sikerness [surety]
tofore the high God unto all them that do it. Beware, my son, keep thee from all uncleanness,
and suffer not thyself to know that sin; and suffer never pride to have domination in thy wit,
ne in thy word, that sin was the beginning of all perdition. Whosomever work to thee any thing,
anon yield to him his meed and hire, let never the hire of thy servant ne meed of thy mercenary
remain in no wise with thee. That thou hatest to be done to thee of other, see that thou never
do to an other. Eat thy bread with the hungry and needy, and cover the naked with thy clothes.
Ordain thy bread and wine upon the sepulture of a righteous man, but eat it not ne drink it
with sinners. Ask and demand counsel of a wise man. Always and in every time bless God and
desire of him that he address thy ways, and let all thy counsels abide in him. I tell to thee,
my son, that when thou wert a little child I lent to Gabael ten besants of silver, dwelling
in Rages the city of Medes, upon an obligation, which I have by me. And therefore spere [search]
and ask how thou mayst go to him, and thou shalt receive of him the said weight of silver and
restore to him his obligation. Dread thou not, my son; though we lead a poor life, we shall
have much good if we dread God and go from sin and do well. Then young Tobias answered to his
father: All that thou hast commanded me I shall do, father; but how I shall get this money
I wot never; he knoweth not me, ne I know not him; what token shall I give him? And also I
know not the way thither. Then his father answered to him and said: I have his obligation by
me, which when thou shewest him, anon he shall pay thee. But go now first and seek for thee
some true man, that for his hire shall go with thee whiles I live, that thou mayst receive it.

Then Tobias went forth and found a fair young man girt up and ready for to walk, and not knowing
that it was the angel of God, saluted him and said: From whence have we thee, good young man?
And he answered: Of the children of Israel. And Tobias said to him: Knowest thou the way that
leadeth one into the region of Medes? To whom he answered: I know it well, and all the journeys
I have oft walked and have dwelled with Gabael our brother which dwelled in Rages the city
of Medes, which standeth in the hill of Ecbathanis. To whom Tobias said: I pray thee tary here
a while till I have told this to my father. Then Tobias went in to his father and told to him
all these things, whereon his father marvelled and prayed him that he should bring him in.
Then the angel came in and saluted the old Tobit and said: Joy be to thee always. And Tobit
said: What joy shall be to me that sit in darkness, and see not the light of heaven. To whom
the youngling said: Be of strong belief; it shall not be long but of God thou shalt be cured
and healed. Then said Tobit to him: Mayst thou lead my son unto Gabael in Rages city of Medes,
and when thou comest again I shall restore to thee thy meed. And the angel said: I shall lead
him thither and bring him again to thee. To whom Tobit said: I pray thee to tell me of what
house or of what kindred art thou. To whom Raphael the angel said: Thou needest not to ask
the kindred of him that shall go with thy son, but lest haply I should not deliver him to thee
again: I am Azarias son of great Ananias. Tobit answered: Thou art of a great kindred, but
I pray thee be not wroth, though I would know thy kindred. The angel said to him: I shall safely
lead thy son thither, and safely bring him and render him to thee again. Tobit then answered
saying: Well mote ye walk, and our Lord be in your journey, and his angel fellowship with you.
Then, when all was ready that they should have with them by the way, young Tobias took leave
of his father and mother, and bade them farewell. When they should depart the mother began
to weep and say: Thou has taken away and sent from us the staff of our old age, would God that
thilke [that] money had never been for which thou hast sent him, our poverty sufficeth enough
to us that we might have seen our son. Tobit said to her: Weep not, our son shall come safely
again and thine eyes shall see him. I believe that the good angel of God hath fellowship with
him, and shall dispose all things that shall be needful to him, and that he shall return again
to us with joy. With this the mother ceased of her weeping and was still.

Then young Tobias went forth and an hound followed him. And the first mansion [stay] that they
made was by the river of Tigris, and Tobias went out for to wash his feet, and there came a
great fish for to devour him, whom Tobias fearing cried out with a great voice: Lord, he cometh
on me, and the angel said to him: Take him by the fin and draw him to thee. And so he did and
drew him out of the water to the dry land. Then said the angel to him: Open the fish and take
to thee the heart, the gall, and the milt, and keep them by thee; they be profitable and necessary
for medicines. And when he had done so he roasted of the fish, and took it with them for to
eat by the way, and the remnant they salted, that it might suffice them till they came into
the city of Rages. Then Tobias demanded of the angel and said: I pray thee, Azarias, brother,
to tell me whereto these be good that thou hast bidden me keep. And the angel answered and
said: If thou take a little of his heart and put it on the coals, the smoke and fume thereof
driveth away all manner kind of devils, be it from man or from woman, in such wise that he
shall no more come to them. And Tobias said: Where wilt thou that we shall abide? And he answered
and said: Hereby is a man named Raguel, a man nigh to thy kindred and tribe, and he hath a
daughter named Sara, he hath neither son ne daughter more than her. Thou shalt owe all his
substance, for thee behoveth to take her to thy wife. Then Toby answered and said: I have heard
say that she hath been given to seven men, and they be dead, and I have heard that a devil
slayeth them. I dread therefore that it might hap so to me, and I that am an only son to my
father and mother, I should depose their old age with heaviness and sorrow to hell. Then Raphael
the angel said to him: Hear me, and I shall show thee wherewith thou mayst prevail against
that devil; these that took their wedlock in such wise that they exclude God from them and
their mind, the devil hath power upon them. Thou therefore when thou shalt take a wife, and
enterest into her cubicle, be thou continent by the space of three days from her, and thou
shalt do nothing but be in prayers with her: and that same night put the heart of the fish
on the fire, and that shall put away the devil, and after the third night thou shalt take the
virgin with dread of God, that thou mayst follow the blessing of Abraham in his seed. Then
they went and entered into Raguel's house, and Raguel received them joyously, and Raguel, beholding
well Tobias, said to Anna his wife: How like is this young man unto my cousin! And when he
had so said he asked them: Whence be ye, young men my brethren? And they said: Of the tribe
of Nephthalim, of the captivity of Nineveh. Raguel said to them: Know ye Tobit my brother?
Which said: We know him well. When Raguel had spoken much good of him, the angel said to Raguel:
Tobit of whom thou demandest is father of this young man. And then went Raguel, and with weeping
eyes kissed him, and weeping upon his neck said: The blessing of God be to thee, my son, for
thou art son of a blessed and good man. And Anna his wife and Sara his daughter wept also.

And after they had spoken, Raguel commanded to slay a wether, and make ready a feast. When
he then should bid them sit down to dinner, Tobias said: I shall not eat here this day ne drink
but if thou first grant to me my petition, and promise to me to give me Sara thy daughter.
Which when Raguel heard he was astonied and abashed, knowing what had fallen to seven men that
tofore had wedded her, and dreaded lest it might happen to this young man in likewise. And
when he held his peace and would give him none answer the angel said to him: Be not afeard
to give thy daughter to this man dreading God, for to him thy daughter is ordained to be his
wife, therefore none other may have her. Then said Raguel: I doubt not God hath admitted my
prayers and tears in his sight, and I believe that therefore he hath made you to come to me
that these may be joined in one kindred after the law of Moses, and now have no doubt but I
shall give her to thee. And took a charter and wrote the conscription of the wedlock. And after
this they ate, blessing our Lord God. Raguel called to him Anna his wife and bade her to make
ready another cubicle. And she brought Sara her daughter therein, and she wept, to whom her
mother said: Be thou strong of heart, my daughter, our Lord of heaven give to thee joy for
the heaviness that thou hast suffered. After they had supped, they led the young man to her.
Tobias remembered the words of the angel, and took out of his bag part of the heart of the
fish, and laid it on burning coals. Then Raphael the angel took the devil and bound him in
the upperest desert of Egypt. Then Tobias exhorted the virgin and said to her: Arise, Sara,
and let us pray to God this day, and to-morrow, and after to-morrow, for these three nights
we be joined to God. And after the third night we shall be in our wedlock. We be soothly the
children of saints, and we may not so join together as people do that know not God. Then they
both arising prayed together instantly that health might be given to them. Tobias said: Lord
God of our fathers, heaven and earth, sea, wells, and floods, and all creatures that be in
them, bless thee. Thou madest Adam of the slime of the earth, and gavest to him for an help
Eve, and now, Lord, thou knowest that I take my sister to wife, only for the love of posterity,
in which thy name be blessed world without end. Then said Sara: Have mercy on us, Lord, have
mercy, and let us wax old both together in health. And after this the cocks began to crow,
at which time Raguel commanded his servants to come to him, and they together went for to make
and delve a sepulchre. He said: Lest haply it happen to him as it hath happed to the seven
men that wedded her. When they had made ready the foss and pit, Raguel returned to his wife
and said to her: Send one of thy handmaidens, and let her see if he be dead, that he may be
buried ere it be light day. And she sent forth one of her servants, which entered into the
cubicle and found them both safe and whole, and sleeping together, and she returned and brought
good tidings. And Raguel and Anna blessed our Lord God and said: We bless thee, Lord God of
Israel, that it hath not happed to us as we supposed; thou hast done to us thy mercy, and thou
hast excluded from us our enemy pursuing us, thou hast done mercy on two only children. Make
them, Lord, to bless thee to full, and to offer to thee sacrifice of praising and of their
health, that the university of peoples may know that thou art God only in the universal earth.

Anon then Raguel commanded his servants to fill again the pit that they had made ere it waxed
light, and bade his wife to ordain a feast, and make all ready that were necessary to meat.
He did do slay two fat kine and four wethers, and to ordain meat for all his neighbors and
friends, and Raguel desired and adjured Tobias that he should abide with him two weeks. Of
all that ever Raguel had in possession of goods he gave half part to Tobias, and made to him
a writing that the other half part he should have after the death of him and his wife. Then
Tobias called the angel to him, which he trowed had been a man, and said to him: Azarias, brother,
I pray thee to take heed to my words; if I make myself servant to thee I shall not be worthy
to satisfy thy providence. Nevertheless I pray thee to take to thee the beasts and servants
and go to Gabael in Rages the city of Medes, and render to him his obligation, and receive
of them the money and pray him to come to my wedding. Thou knowest thyself that my father numbereth
the days of my being out, and if I tarry more his soul shall be heavy, and certainly thou seest
how Raguel hath adjured me, whose desire I may not despise. Then Raphael, taking four of the
servants of Raguel and two camels, went to Rages the city of Medes, and there finding Gabael,
gave to him his obligation and received all the money, and told to him of Tobias, son of Tobit,
all that was done, and made him come with him to the wedding. When then he entered the house
of Raguel, he found Tobias sitting at meat, and came to him and kissed him, and Gabael wept
and blessed God saying: God of Israel bless thee, for thou art son of the best man and just,
dreading God and doing alms, and the blessing be said upon thy wife and your parents, and that
you may see the sons of your sons unto the third and fourth generation, and your seed be blessed
of the God of Israel, which reigneth in secula seculorum [forever]. And when all had said Amen,
they went to the feast. And with the dread of God they exercised the feast of their weddings.
Whiles that Tobias tarried because of his marriage, his father Tobit began to be heavy saying:
Trowest thou wherefore my son tarrieth and why he is holden there? Trowest thou that Gabael
be dead, and no man is there that shall give him his money?

He began to be sorry and heavy greatly, both he and Anna his wife with him, and began both
to weep because at the day set he came not home. His mother therefore wept with unmeasurable
tears, and said: Alas, my son, wherefore sent we thee to go this pilgrimage? The light of our
eyes, the staff of our age, the solace of our life, the hope of our posterity, all these only
having in thee, we ought not to have let thee go from us. To whom Tobit said: Be still and
trouble thee not, our son is safe enough, the man is true and faithful enough with whom we
sent him. She might in no wise be comforted, but every day she went and looked and espied the
way that he should come if she might see him come from far. Then Raguel said to Tobias his
son-in-law: Abide here with me, and I shall send messengers of thy health and welfare to Tobit
thy father. To whom Tobias said: I know well that my father and my mother accompt the days,
and the spirit is in great pain within them. Raguel prayed him with many words, but Tobias
would in no wise grant him. Then he delivered to him Sara his daughter, and half part of all
his substance in servants, men and women, in beasts, camels, in kine and much money. And safe
and joyful he let him depart from him, saying: The angel of God that is holy be in your journey,
and bring you home whole and sound, and that ye may find all things well and rightful about
your father and mother, and that mine eyes may see your sons ere I die. And the father and
mother taking their daughter kissed her and let her depart, warning her to worship her husband's
father and mother, love her husband, to rule well the meiny [retinue], to govern the house
and to keep herself irreprehensible, that is to say, without reproof.

When they thus returned and departed, they came to Charram, which is the half way to Nineveh,
the thirteenth day. Then said the angel to Tobias: Tobias, brother, thou knowest how thou hast
left thy father, if it please thee we will go tofore and let thy family come softly after,
with thy wife and with thy beasts. This pleased well to Tobias; and then said Raphael to Tobias:
Take with thee of the gall of the fish, it shall be necessary. Tobias took of the gall and
went forth tofore. Anna his mother sat every day by the way in the top of the hill, from whence
she might see him come from far, and whilst she sat there and looked after his coming, she
saw afar and knew her son coming, and running home she told to her husband saying: Lo! thy
son cometh. Raphael then said to young Tobias: Anon as thou enterest in to the house adore
thy Lord God, and giving to him thankings, go to thy father and kiss him. And anon then anoint
his eyes with the gall of the fish that thou bearest with thee, thou shalt well know that his
eyes shall be opened, and thy father shall see the light of heaven and shall joy in thy sight.
Then ran the dog that followed him and had been with him in the way, and came home as a messenger,
fawning and making joy with his tail. And the blind father arose and began offending his feet
to run to meet his son, giving to him his hand, and so taking, kissed him with his wife, and
began to weep for joy. When then they had worshipped God and thanked him, they sat down together.
Then Tobias taking the gall of the fish anointed his father's eyes, and abode as it had been
half an hour, and the slime of his eyes began to fall away like as it had been the white of
an egg, which Tobias took and drew from his father's eyes, and anon he received sight. And
they glorified God, that is to wit he and his wife and all they that knew him.

Then said Tobit the father: I bless thee, Lord God of Israel, for thou hast chastised me, and
thou hast saved me, and, lo! I see Tobias my son. After these seven days Sara the wife of his
son came and entered in with all the family, and the beasts whole and sound, camels and much
money of his wife's, and also the money that he had received of Gabael. And he told to his
father and mother all the benefits of God that was done to him by the man that led him. Then
came Achiacharus and Nasbas, cousins of Tobias, joying and thanking God of all the goods that
God had showed to him. And seven days they ate together making feast, and were glad with great
joy. Then old Tobit call his son Tobias to him, and said: What may we give to this holy man
that cometh with thee? Then Tobias answering said to his father: Father, what meed may we give
to him, or what may be worthy to him for his benefits? He led me out and hath brought me whole
again, he received the money of Gabael; he did me have my wife and he put away the devil from
her; he hath made joy to my parents, and saved myself from devouring of the fish, and hath
made thee see the light of heaven, and by him we be replenished with all goods; what may we
then worthily give to him? Wherefore I pray thee, father, that thou pray him if he vouchsafe
to take the half of all that I have. Then the father and the son calling him took him apart
and began to pray him that he would vouchsafe to take half the part of all the goods that they
had brought. Then said he to them privily: Bless ye God of heaven and before all living people
knowledge ye him, for he hath done to you his mercy. Forsooth to hide the sacrament of the
king it is good, but for to show the works of God and to knowledge them it is worshipful. Oration
and prayer is good, with fasting and alms, and more than to set up treasures of gold. For alms
delivereth from death, and it is she that purgeth sins and maketh a man to find everlasting
life. Who that do sin and wickedness they be enemies of his soul. I show to you therefore the
truth and I shall not hide from you the secret word. When thou prayedst with tears and didst
bury the dead men and leftest thy dinner and hiddest dead men by the day in thine house, and
in the night thou buriedst them, I offered thy prayer unto God. And forasmuch as thou wert
accepted tofore God, it was necessary, thou being tempted, that he should prove thee. And now
hath our Lord sent me for to cure thee, and Sara the wife of thy son I have delivered from
the devil. I am soothly Raphael the angel, one of the seven which stand tofore our Lord God.
When they heard this they were troubled, and trembling fell down on their faces upon the ground.
The angel said to them: Peace be to you, dread you not. Forsooth I was with you by the will
of God, him alway bless ye and sing ye to him, I was seen of you to eat and drink, but I use
meat and drink invisible, which of men may not be seen. It is now therefore time that I return
to him which sent me. Ye alway bless God and tell ye all his marvels. And when he had said
this he was taken away from the sight of them, and after that they might no more see him. Then
they fell down flat on their faces by the space of three hours and blessed God, and arising
up they told all the marvels of him.

Then the older Tobit opening his mouth blessed our Lord and said: Great art thou, Lord, evermore,
and thy reign is in to all worlds, for thou scourgest and savest, thou leadest to hell and
bringest again, and there is none that may flee thy hand. Knowledge and confess you to the
Lord, ye children of Israel, and in the sight of Gentiles praise ye him. Therefore he hath
disperpled [scattered] you among Gentiles that know him not, that ye tell his marvels, and
make them to be known. For there is none other God Almighty but he; he hath chastised us for
our wickedness and he shall save us for his mercy. Take heed and see therefore what he hath
done to us, and with fear and dread, knowledge ye to him, and exalt him king of all worlds
in your works. I soothly in the land of my captivity shall knowledge to him, for he hath showed
his majesty into the sinful people. Confess ye therefore sinners, and do ye justice tofore
our Lord by believing that he shall do to you his mercy, aye soothly, and my soul shall be
glad in him. All ye chosen of God, bless ye him and make ye days of gladness and knowledge
ye to him. Jerusalem city of God, our Lord hath chastised thee in the works of his hands, confess
thou to our Lord in his good things and bless thou the God of worlds that he may re-edify in
thee his tabernacle, and that he may call again to thee all prisoners and them that be in captivity
and that thou joy in omnia secula seculorum. Thou shalt shine with a bright light, and all
the ends of the earth shall worship thee. Nations shall come to thee from far, and bringing
gifts shall worship in thee our Lord, and shall have thy land into sanctification. They shall
call in thee a great name, they shall be cursed that shall despise thee, and they all shall
be condemned that blaspheme thee. Blessed be they that edify thee, thou shalt be joyful in
thy sons, for all shall be blessed, and shall be gathered together unto our Lord. Blessed be
they that love thee and that joy upon thy peace. My soul, bless thou our Lord, for he hath
delivered Jerusalem his city. I shall be blessed if there be left of my seed for to see the
clearness of Jerusalem. The gates of Jerusalem shall be edified of sapphire and emerald, and
all the circuit of his walls of precious stone; all the streets thereof shall be paved with
white stone and clean; and Alleluia shall be sung by the ways thereof. Blessed be the Lord
that hath exalted it that it may be his kingdom in secula seculorum, Amen. And thus Tobit finished
these words. And Tobit lived after he had received his sight forty-two years, and saw the sons
of his nephews, that is, the sons of the sons of his son young Tobias. And when he had lived
one hundred and two years he died, and was honorably buried in the city of Nineveh.

He was fifty-six years old when he lost his sight, and when he was sixty years old he received
his sight again. The residue of his life was in joy, and with good profit of the dread of God
he departed in peace. In the hour of his death he called to him Tobias his son, and seven of
his young sons, his nephews, and said to them: The destruction of Nineveh is nigh, the word
of God shall not pass, and our brethren that be disperpled [scattered] from the land of Israel
shall return thither again. All the land thereof shall be fulfilled with desert, and the house
that is burnt therein shall be re-edified, and thither shall return all people dreading God.
And Gentiles shall leave their idols and shall come in Jerusalem and shall dwell, therein,
and all the kings of the earth shall joy in her, worshipping the king of Israel. Hear ye therefore,
my sons, me your father, serve ye God in truth and seek ye that ye do that may be pleasing
to him, and command ye to your sons that they do righteousness and alms, that they may remember
God and bless him in all time in truth and in all their virtue. Now therefore, my sons, hear
me and dwell ye no longer here, but whensoever your mother shall die, bury her by me and from
then forthon dress ye your steps that ye go hence, I see well that wickedness shall make an
end of it. It was so then after the death of his mother, Tobias went from Nineveh with his
wife and his sons, and the sons of his sons, and returned unto his wife's father and mother,
whom they found in good health and good age, and took the cure and charge of them, and were
with them unto their death, and closed their eyes. And Tobias received all the heritage of
the house of Raguel and saw the sons of his sons unto the fifth generation. And when he had
complished ninety-nine years he died in the dread of God, and with joy they buried him. All
his cognation [kindred] and all his generation [offspring] abode in good life and in holy conversation,
and in such wise as they were acceptable as well to God as to men, and to all dwelling on the
earth.

HERE BEGINNETH THE STORY OF JUDITH

Which is read the last Sunday of October

Arpaxhad, king of the Medes, subdued into his empire many peoples and edified a mighty city,
which he named Ecbatane, and made it with stones squared, and polished them. The walls thereof
were of height seventy cubits, and of breadth thirty cubits, and the towers thereof were an
hundred cubits high. And he glorified himself as he that was mighty in puissance and in the
glory of his host and of his chariots. Nebuchadnezzar then in the twelfth year of his reign,
which was king of the Assyrians, and reigned in the city of Nineveh, fought against Arphaxad
and took him in the field, whereof Nebuchadnezzar was exalted and enhanced himself, and sent
unto all regions about and unto Jerusalem till the Mounts of Ethiopia, for to obey and hold
of him. Which all gainsaid him with one will, and without worship sent home his messengers
void, and set nought by him. Then Nebuchadnezzar, having them at great indignation, swore by
his reign and by his throne that he would avenge him on them all, and thereupon called all
his dukes, princes, and men of war, and held a counsel in which was decreed that he should
subdue all the world unto his empire. And thereupon he ordained Holofernes prince of his knighthood,
and bade him go forth, and in especial against them that had despised his empire; and bade
him spare no realm ne town but subdue all to him. Then Holofernes assembled dukes and masters
of the strength of Nebuchadnezzar, and numbered one hundred and twenty thousand footmen, and
horsemen shooters twelve thousand. And tofore them he commanded to go a multitude of innumerable
camels laden with such things as were needful to the host, as victual, gold and silver, much
that was taken out of the treasury of the kings. And so went to many realms which he subdued;
and occupied a great part of the orient till he came approaching the land of Israel. And when
the children of Israel heard thereof they dreaded sore lest he should come among them into
Jerusalem and destroy the temple, for Nebuchadnezzar had commanded that he should extinct all
the gods of the earth, and that no god should be named ne worshipped but he himself, of all
the nations that Holofernes should subdue.

Eliachim, then priest in Israel, wrote unto all them in the mountains that they should keep
the strait ways of the mountains, and so the children of Israel did as the priest had ordained.
Then Eliachim, the priest, went about all Israel and said to them: Know ye that God hath heard
your prayers, if ye abide and continue in your prayers and fastings in the sight of God. Remember
ye of Moses, the servant of God, which overthrew Amalek trusting in his strength, and in his
power, in his host, in his helmets, in his chariots, and in his horsemen; not fighting with
iron, but with praying of holy prayers. In like wise shall it be with all the enemies of Israel
if ye persevere in this work that ye have begun. With this exhortation they continued praying
God. They persevered in the sight of God, and also they that offered to our Lord were clad
with sackcloth, and had ashes on their heads, and with all their heart they prayed God to visit
his people Israel. It was told to Holofernes prince of the knighthood of the Assyrians that
the children of Israel made them ready to resist him, and had closed the ways of the mountains,
and he was burned in overmuch fury in great ire. He called all the princes of Moab and dukes
of Ammon and said to them: Say ye to me, what people is this that besiege the mountains, or
what or how many cities have they? And what is their virtue, and what multitude is of them?
Or who is king of their knighthood? Then Achior, duke of all of them of Ammon, answering said:
If thou deignest to hear me I shall tell thee truth of this people that dwelleth in the mountains,
and there shall not issue out of my mouth one false word. This people dwelled first in Mesopotamia,
and was of the progeny of the Chaldees, but would not dwell there for they would not follow
the gods of their fathers that were in the land of Chaldees, and going and leaving the ceremonies
of their fathers, which was in the multitude of many gods, they honored one, God of heaven,
which commanded them to go thence that they should dwell in Canaan. Then after was there much
hunger, that they descended into Egypt, and there abode four hundred years, and multiplied
that they might not be numbered. When the king of Egypt grieved them in his buildings, bearing
clay tiles, and subdued them, they cried to their Lord, and he smote the land of Egypt with
divers plagues. When they of Egypt had cast them out from them, the plagues ceased from them
and then they would have taken them again and would have called them to their service, and
they fleeing, their God opened the sea to them that they went through dry-foot, in which the
innumerable host of the Egyptians pursuing them were drowned, that there was not one of them
saved for to tell to them that came after them. They passed thus the Red Sea, and he fed them
with manna forty years, and made bitter waters sweet, and gave them water out of a stone. And
wheresoever this people entered without bow or arrow, shield or sword, their God fought for
them, and there is no man may prevail against this people but when they departed from the culture
and honor of their God. And as oft as they have departed from their God and worshipped other
strange gods, so oft have they been overcome with their enemies. And when they repent and come
to the knowledge of their sin, and cry their God mercy, they be restored again, and their God
giveth to them virtue to resist their enemies. They have overthrown Cananeum the king, Jebusee,
Pheresee, Eneum, Etheum and Amoreum, and all the mighty men in Esebon, and have taken their
lands and cities and possess them, and shall, as long as they please their God. Their God hateth
wickedness, for tofore this time when they went from the laws that their God gave to them,
he suffered them to be taken of many nations into captivity, and were disperpled. And now late
they be come again and possess Jerusalem wherein is sancta sanctorum, and be come over these
mountains whereas some of them dwell. Now therefore, my lord, see and search if there be any
wickedness of them in the sight of their God, and then let us go to them, for their God shall
give them into thy hands and they shall be subdued under the yoke of thy power.

And when Achior had said thus, all the great men about Holofernes were angry and had thought
for to have slain him, saying each to other: Who is this that may make the children of Israel
resist the king Nebuchadnezzar and his army and host? Men cowards and without might and without
any wisdom of war. Therefore that Achior may know that he saith not true, let us ascend the
mountains, and when the mighty men of them be taken let him be slain with them, that all men
may know that Nebuchadnezzar is god of the earth, and that there is none other but he. Then
when they ceased to speak, Holofernes having indignation said to Achior: Because thou hast
prophesied to us of the children of Israel saying, that their God defend them, I shall show
to thee that there is no god but Nebuchadnezzar, for whom we have overcome them all and slain
them as one man, then shalt thou die with them by the sword of the Assyrians, and all Israel
shall be put into ruin and perdition, and then shall be known that Nebuchadnezzar is lord of
all the earth, and the sword of my knighthood shall pass through thy sides. And thou shalt
depart hence and go to them, and shalt not die unto the time that I have them and thee. And
when I have slain them with my sword thou shalt in like wise be slain with like vengeance.
After this Holofernes commanded his servants to take Achior, and lead him to Bethulia and to
put him in the hands of them of Israel. And so they took Achior and ascended the mountains,
against whom came out men of war. Then the servants of Holofernes turned aside and bound Achior
to a tree hands and feet with cords, and left him and so returned to their lord. Then the sons
of Israel coming down from Bethulia loosed and unbound him, and brought him to Bethulia, and
he being set amid the people was demanded what he was, and why he was so sore there bounden.
And he told to them all the matter like as it is aforesaid, and how Holofernes had commanded
him to be delivered unto them of Israel. Then all the people fell down on to their faces worshipping
God, and with great lamentation and weeping, with one will made their prayers unto our Lord
God of heaven, and that he would behold the pride of them, and to the meekness of them of Israel,
and to take heed to the faces of his hallows and show to them his grace and not forsake them,
and prayed God to have mercy on them and defend them from their enemies. And on that other
side, Holofernes commanded his hosts to go up and assail Bethulia, and so went up, of footmen
one hundred and twenty thousand, and twelve thousand horsemen, and besieged the town, and took
their water from them, insomuch that they that were in the town were in great penury of water,
for in all the town was not water enough for one day, and such as they had was given to the
people by measure. Then all the people young and old came to Ozias which was their prince,
with Charmis and Gothoniel, all with one voice crying: God the Lord deem between us and thee,
for thou hast done to us evil what thou spakest not peaceably with Assyrians, for now we shall
be delivered into the hands of them. It is better for us to live in captivity under Holofernes
and live, than to die here for thirst, and see our wives and children die before our eyes.
And when they had made this piteous crying and yelling, they went all to their church, and
there a long while prayed and cried unto God knowledging their sins and wickedness, meekly
beseeching him to show his grace and pity on them. Then at last Ozias arose up, and said to
the people: Let us abide yet five days, and if God send us no rescue ne help us not in that
time that we may give glory to his name, else we shall do as ye have said. And when that Judith
heard thereof, which was a widow and a blessed woman, and was left widow three years and six
months.

After that Manasses her husband died, anon she went into the overest part of her house in which
she made a privy bed, which she and her servants closed, and having on her body a hair [hair
cloth], had fasted all the days of her life save Sabbaths and new moons, and the feasts of
the house of Israel. She was a fair woman and her husband had left her much riches, with plentiful
meiny, and possessions of droves of oxen and flocks of sheep, and she was a famous woman and
dreaded God greatly. And when she had heard that Ozias had said, that the fifth day the city
should be given over if God helped them not, she sent for the priests Chambris and Charmis
and said to them: What is this word in which Ozias hath consented that the city should be delivered
to the Assyrians if within five days there come no help to us? And who be ye that tempt the
Lord God? This word is not to stir God to mercy but rather to arouse wrath and woodness. Ye
have set a time of mercy doing by God, and in your doom ye have ordained a day to him. O good
Lord, how patient is he, let us ask him for forgiveness with weeping tears; he shall not threaten
as a man, ne inflame in wrath as a son of a man, therefore meek we our souls to him and in
a contrite spirit and meeked, serve we to him, and say we weeping to God, that after his will
he show to us his mercy, and as our heart is troubled in the pride of them, so also of our
humbleness and meekness let us be joyful. For we have not followed the sin of our fathers that
forsook their God and worshipped strange gods, wherefore they were given and be taken into
hideous and great vengeance, into sword, ravin, and into confusion to their enemies; we forsooth
know no other god but him. Abide we meekly the comfort of him, and he shall keep us from our
enemies and he shall make all gentiles that arise against him, and shall make them without
worship the Lord our God. And now ye brethren, ye that be priests, on whom hangeth the life
of the people of God, pray ye unto Almighty God that he make me steadfast in the purpose that
I have proposed. Ye shall stand at the gate and I shall go out with my handmaid. And pray ye
the Lord that he steadfast make my soul, and do ye nothing till I come again.

And then Judith went into her oratory, and arrayed her with her precious clothing and adornments,
and took unto her handmaid certain victuals such as she might lawfully eat, and when she had
made her prayers unto God she departed in her most noble array toward the gate, whereas Ozias
and the priests abode her, and when they saw her they marvelled of her beauty. Notwithstanding
they let her go, saying: God of our fathers give thee grace and strengthen all the counsel
of thine heart with his virtue and glory to Jerusalem, and be thy name in the number of saints
and of righteous men. And they all that were there said: Amen, and, fiat! fiat! [let it be
done]. Then she praising god passed through the gate, and her handmaid with her. And when she
came down the hill, about the springing of the day, anon the spies of the Assyrians took her
saying: Whence comest thou, or whither goest thou? The which answered: I am a daughter of the
Hebrews and flee from them, knowing that they shall be taken by you, and come to Holofernes
for to tell him their privities, and I shall show him by what entry he may win them, in such
wise as one man of his host shall not perish. And the men that heard these words beheld her
visage and wondered of her beauty, saying to her: Thou hast saved thy life because thou hast
founden such counsel, come therefore to our Lord, for when thou shalt stand in his sight he
shall accept thee. And they led her to the tabernacle of Holofernes. And when she came before
him anon Holofernes was caught by his eyes, and his tyrant knights said to him: Who despised
the people of Jews that have so fair women, that not for them of right we ought to fight against
them? And so Judith seeing Holofernes sitting in his canape that was of purple, of gold, smaragdos
and precious stones within woven, and when she had seen his face she honored him, falling down
herself unto the earth. And the servants of Holofernes took her up, he so commanding. Then
Holofernes said to her: Be thou not afeard ne dread thee not. I never grieved ne noyed man
that would serve Nebuchadnezzar. Thy people soothly, if they had not despised me, I had not
raised my people ne strength against them. Now tell to me the cause why thou wentest from them,
and that it hath pleased thee to come to us. And Judith said: Take the words of thine handmaid,
and if thou follow them, a perfect thing God shall do with thee. Forsooth Nebuchadnezzar is
the living king of the earth, and thou hast his power for to chastise all people, for men only
serve not him, but also the beasts of the field obey to him, his might is known over all. And
the children of Israel shall be yielded to thee, for their God is angry with them for their
wickedness. They be enfamined and lack bread and water, they be constrained to eat their horse
and beasts, and to take such holy things as be forbidden in their law, as wheat, wine, and
oil, all these things God hath showed to me. And they purpose to waste such things as they
ought not touch, and therefore and for their sins they shall be put in the hands of their enemies,
and our Lord hath showed me these things to tell thee. And I thine handmaid shall worship God,
and shall go out and pray him, and come in and tell thee what he shall say to me, in such wise
that I shall bring thee through the middle of Jerusalem, and thou shalt have all the people
of Israel under thee, as the sheep be under the shepherd, insomuch there shall not an hound
burk against thee. And because these things be said to me by the providence of God, and that
God is wroth with them, I am sent to tell thee these things.

Forsooth, all these words pleased much to Holofernes, and to his people, and they marvelled
of the wisdom of her. And one said to another. There is not such a woman upon earth in sight,
in fairness, and in wit of words. And Holofernes said to her: God hath done well that he hath
sent thee hither for to let me have knowledge, and if thy God do to me these things he shall
be my God, and thou and thy name shall be great in the house of Nebuchadnezzar. Then commanded
Holofernes her to go in where his treasure lay, and to abide there, and to give to her meat
from his feast, to whom she said that she might not eat of his meat, but that she had brought
meat with her for to eat. Then Holofernes said: When that meat faileth what shall we give to
thee to eat? And Judith said that she should not spend all till God shall do in my hands those
things that I have thought. And the servants led her into his tabernacle, and she desired that
she might go out in the night and before day to pray, and come in again. And the lord commanded
his cubiculers that she should go and come at her pleasure three days during. And she went
out into the valley of Bethulia and baptized her in the water of the well. And she stretched
her hands up to the God of Israel, praying the good Lord that he would govern her way for to
deliver his people; and thus she did unto the fourth day. Then Holofernes made a great feast,
and sent a man of his, named Bagoas, for to entreat Judith to come eat and drink with him.
And Judith said: What am I that should gainsay my lord's desire. I am at his commandment, whatsomever
he will that I do, I shall do, and please him all the days of my life. And she rose and adorned
herself with her rich and precious clothes, and went in and stood before Holofernes, and Holofernes'
heart was pierced with her beauty, and he said to her: Sit down and drink in joy, for thou
hast found grace before me. Judith said: I shall drink my lord, for my life is magnified this
day before all the days of my life. And she ate and drank such as her handmaid had ordained
for her. And Holofernes was merry and drank so much wine that he never drank so much in one
day in all his life, and was drunken. And at even, when it was night, Holofernes went into
his bed, and Bagoas brought Judith in to his chamber and closed the door. And when Judith was
alone in the chamber, and Holofernes lay and slept in overmuch drunkenness, Judith said to
her handmaid that she should stand without forth before the door of the privy chamber and wait
about, and Judith stood before the bed praying with tears and with moving of her lips secretly,
saying: O Lord God of Israel, conform me in this hour to the works of my hands, that thou raise
up the city of Jerusalem as thou hast promised, and that I may perform this that I have thought
to do. And when she had thus said, she went to the pillar that was at his bed's head, and took
his sword and loosed it, and when she had drawn it out, she took his hair in her hand and said:
Confirm me God of Israel in this hour, and smote twice in the neck and cut off his head, and
left the body lie still, and took the head and wrapped it in the canape and delivered it to
her maid, and bade her to put it in her scrip, and they two went out after their usage to pray.
And they passed the tents, and going about the valley came to the gate of the city, and Judith
said to the keepers of the walls: Open the gates, for God is with us that hath done great virtue
in Israel. And anon when they heard her call, they called the priests of the city, and they
came running for they had supposed no more to have seen her, and lighting lights all went about
her.

She then entered in and stood up in a high place and commanded silence, and said: Praise ye
the Lord God that forsaketh not men hoping in him; and in me his handwoman, hath fulfilled
his mercy that he promised to the house of Israel, and hath slain in my hand the enemy of his
people this night. And then she brought forth the head of Holofernes and showed it to them,
saying: Lo! here the head of Holofernes, prince of the chivalry of Assyrians, and lo! the canape
of him in which he lay in his drunkenhood, where our Lord hath smitten him by the hand of a
woman. Forsooth God liveth, for his angel kept me hence going, there abiding, and from thence
hither returning, and the Lord hath not suffered me, his handwoman, to be defouled, but without
pollution of sin hath called me again to you joying in his victory, in my escaping and in your
deliverance. Knowledge ye him all for good, for his mercy is everlasting, world without end.
And all they, honoring our Lord, said to her: The Lord bless thee in his virtue, for by thee
he hath brought our enemies to naught. Then Ozias, the prince of the people, said to her: Blessed
be thou of the high God before all women upon earth, and blessed be the Lord that made heaven
and earth, that hath addressed thee in the wounds of the head of the prince of our enemies.
After this Judith bade that the head should be hanged up on the walls, and at the sun rising
every man in his arms issue out upon your enemies, and when their spies shall see you, they
shall run into the tent of their prince, to raise him and to make him ready to fight, and when
his lords shall see him dead, they shall be smitten with so great dread and fear that they
shall flee, whom ye then shall pursue, and God shall bring them and tread them under your feet.
Then Achior seeing the virtue of the God of Israel, left his old heathen's customs and believed
in God, and put himself to the people of Israel, and all the succession of his kindred unto
this day. Then at the springing of the day they hung the head of Holofernes on the walls, and
every man took his arms and went out with great noise, which thing seeing, the spies ran together
to the tabernacle of Holofernes, and came making noise for to make him to arise, and that he
should awake, but no man was so hardy to knock or enter into his privy chamber. But when the
dukes and leaders of thousands came, and other, they said to the privy chamberlains: Go and
awake your lord, for the mice be gone out of their caves and be ready to call us to battle.
Then Bagoas went into his privy chamber and stood before the curtain, and clapped his hands
together. And when he perceived no moving of him, he drew the curtain and seeing the dead body
of Holofernes, without head, lying in his blood, cried with great voice, weeping and rending
his clothes, and went in to the tabernacle of Judith and found her not, and started out to
the people and said: A woman of the Hebrews hath made confusion in the house of Nebuchadnezzar,
she hath slain Holofernes, and he is dead, and she hath his head with her.

And when the princes and captains of the Assyrians heard this, anon they rent their clothes,
and intolerable dread fell on them, and were sore troubled in their wits and made a horrible
cry in their tents. And when all the host had heard how Holofernes was beheaded, counsel and
mind flew from them, and with great trembling for succor began to flee, in such wise that none
would speak with other, but with their heads bowed down fled for to escape from the Hebrews,
whom they saw armed coming upon them, and departed fleeing by fields and ways of hills and
valleys. And the sons of Israel, seeing them fleeing, following them, crying with trumps and
shouting after them, and slew and smote down all them that they overtook. And Ozias sent forth
unto all the cities and regions of Israel, and they sent after all the young men and valiant
to pursue them by sword, and so they did unto the uttermost coasts of Israel. The other men
soothly, that were in Bethulia, went in to the tents of the Assyrians, and took all the prey
that the Assyrians had left, and when the men had pursued them were returned, they took all
their beasts and all the movable goods and things that they had left, so much that every man
from the most to the least were made rich by the prey that they took. Then Joachim the high
bishop of Jerusalem came unto Bethulia, with all the priests, for to see Judith, and when she
came tofore them all, they blessed her with one voice, saying: Thou glory of Jerusalem, thou
gladness of Israel, thou the worship doing of our people, thou didst manly, and thy heart is
comforted because thou lovedst chastity and knewest no man after the death of thy husband,
and therefore the hand of God hath comforted thee. And therefore thou shalt be blessed world
without end, and all the people said: Fiat! fiat! be it done, be it done. Certainly the spoils
of the Assyrians were unnethe gathered and assembled together in thirty days, of the people
of Israel, but all the proper riches that were appertaining to Holofernes and could be found
that had been his, they were given to Judith as well gold, silver, gems, clothes, as all other
appurtenances to household; and all was delivered to her of the people, and the folks, with
women and maidens, joyed in organs and harps. Then Judith sang this song unto God saying: Begin
ye in timbrels, sing ye to the Lord in cymbals, mannerly sing to him a new psalm. Fully joy
ye, and inwardly call ye his name, and so forth. And for this great miracle and victory all
the people came to Jerusalem for to give laud, honor, and worship unto our Lord God. And after
they were purified they offered sacrifices, vows, and behests unto God, and the joy of this
victory was solemnized during three months, and after that, each went home again into his own
city and house, and Judith returned into Bethulia, and was made more great and clear to all
men of the land of Israel. She was joined to the virtue of chastity, so that she knew no man
all the days of her life after the death of Manasses, her husband, and dwelled in the house
of her husband an hundred and five years, and she left her demoiselle free. After this she
died and is buried in Bethulia and all the people bewailed her seven days. During her life
after this journey was no trouble among the Jews, and the day of this victory of the Hebrews
was accepted for a feastful day, and hallowed of the Jews and numbered among their feasts unto
this day.

"He neither shall be born
  In housen nor in hall,
Nor in the place of paradise,
  But in an ox's stall.

"He neither shall be clothed
  In purple nor in pall,
But in the fair white linen
  That usen babies all.

"He neither shall be rocked
  In silver nor in gold,
But in a wooden manger
  That resteth on the mould."

As Joseph was a-walking,
  There did an angel sing,
And Mary's child at midnight
  Was born to be our king.

Then be ye glad, good people,
  This night of all the year,
And light ye up your candles,
  For his star it shineth clear.

Hush! my dear, lie still and slumber; Holy angels guard thy bed!

See the lovely babe a-dressing: Lovely infant, how he smiled! When he wept, the mother's blessing
Soothed and hush'd the holy child.

The sun arising in the East, Though he give light, and th' East perfume, If they should offer
to contest With Thy arising, they presume.

Can there be any day but this, Though many suns to shine endeavor? We count three hundred,
but we miss: There is but one, and that one ever.

--George Herbert

THE LIFE OF ST. PETER THE APOSTLE

St. Peter the apostle among all other, and above all other, was of most fervent and burning
love, for he would have known the traitor that should betray our Lord Jesu Christ, as St. Austin
saith: If he had known him he would have torn him with his teeth, and therefore our Lord would
not name him to him, for as Chrysostom, saith: If he had named him, Peter had arisen and all
to-torn him. Peter went upon the sea; he was chosen of God to be at his transfiguration, and
raised a maid from death to life; he found the stater or piece of money in the fish's mouth;
he received of our Lord the keys of the kingdom of heaven; he took the charge to feed the sheep
of Jesu Christ. He converted at a Whitsuntide three thousand men, he healed Claude with John,
and then converted five thousand men; he said to Ananias and Saphira their death before; he
healed Æneas of the palsy; he raised Tabitha; he baptized Cornelia; with the shadow of his
body he healed sick men; he was put in prison by Herod, but by the angel of our Lord he was
delivered. What his meat was and his clothing, the book of St. Clement witnesseth, for he said:
Bread only with olives, and seldom with worts, is mine usage, and I have such clothing as thou
seest, a coat and a mantle, and when I have that, I demand no more. It is said for certain
that he bare always a sudary in his bosom, with which he wiped the tears that ran from his
eyes; for when he remembered the sweet presence of our Lord, for the great love that he had
to him he might not forbear weeping. And also when he remembered that he had renied him, he
wept abundantly great plenty of tears, in such wise that he was so accustomed to weep that
his face was burned with tears as it seemed, like as Clement saith. And saith also that in
the night when he heard the cock crow he would weep customably. And after that it is read in
Historia Ecclesiastica that, when St. Peter's wife was led to her passion, he had great joy
and called her by her proper name, and said to her: My wife, remember thee of our Lord.

On a time when St. Peter had sent two of his disciples for to preach the faith of Jesu Christ,
and when they had gone twenty days' journey, one of them died, and that other then returned
to St. Peter and told him what had happened, some say that it was St. Marcial that so died,
and some say it was St. Maternus, and others say that it was St. Frank. Then St. Peter gave
to him his staff and commanded that he should return to his fellow, and lay it upon him, which
he so did, then he which had been forty days dead, anon arose all living.

That time Simon the enchanter was in Jerusalem, and he said he was first truth, and affirmed
that who that would believe in him he would make them perpetual. And he also said that nothing
to him was impossible. It is read in the book of St. Clement that he said that he should be
worshipped of all men as God, and that he might do all that he would. And he said yet more:
When my mother Rachel commanded me that I should go reap corn in the field, and saw the sickle
ready to reap with, I commanded the sickle to reap by itself alone, and it reaped ten times
more than any other. And yet he added hereto more, after Jerome, and said: I am the Word of
God, I am the Holy Ghost, I am Almighty, I am all that is of God. He made serpents of brass
to move, and made the images of iron and of stone to laugh, and dogs to sing, and as St. Linus
saith, he would dispute with St. Peter and show, at a day assigned, that he was God. And Peter
came to the place where the strife should be, and said to them that were there: Peace to you
brethren that love truth. To whom Simon said: We have none need of thy peace, for if peace
and concord were made, we should not profit to find the truth, for thieves have peace among
them. And therefore desire no peace but battle, for when two men fight and one is overcome
then is it peace. Then said Peter: Why dreadest thou to hear of peace? Of sins grow battles,
where is no sin there is peace; in disputing is truth found, and in works righteousness. Then
said Simon: It is not as thou sayest, but I shall show to thee the power of my dignity, that
anon thou shalt adore me; I am first truth, and may flee by the air; I can make new trees and
turn stones into bread; endure in the fire without hurting; and all that I will I may do. St.
Peter disputed against all these, and disclosed all his malefices. Then Simon Magus, seeing
that he might not resist Peter, cast all his books into the sea, lest St. Peter should prove
him a magician, by his books, and went to Rome where he was had and reputed as a god. And when
Peter knew that, he followed and came to Rome. The fourth year of Claudius the emperor, Peter
came to Rome, and sat there twenty-five years, and ordained two bishops as his helpers, Linus
and Cletus, one within the walls, and that other without. He entended much to preaching of
the Word of God, by which he converted much people to the faith of Christ, and healed many
sick men, and in his preaching always he praised and preferred chastity. He converted four
concubines, of Agrippa the provost, so that they would no more come to him, wherefore the provost
sought occasion against Peter.

After this, our Lord appeared to St. Peter, saying to him: Simon Magus and Nero purpose against
thee, dread thee not, for I am with thee, and shall give to thee the solace of my servant Paul,
which to-morn shall come in to Rome. Then Peter, knowing that he should not long abide here,
assembled all his brethren, and took Clement by the hand and ordained him a bishop, and made
him to sit in his own seat. After this, as our Lord had said tofore, Paul came to Rome, and
with Peter began to preach the faith of Christ.

Simon Magus was so much beloved of Nero that he weened that he had been the keeper of his life,
of his health, and of all the city. On a day, as Leo the pope saith, as he stood tofore Nero,
suddenly his visage changed, now old and now young, which, when Nero saw, he supposed that
he had been the son of God. Then said Simon Magus to Nero: Because that thou shalt know me
to be the very son of God, command my head to be smitten off and I shall arise again the third
day. Then Nero commanded to his brother to smite off his head, and when he supposed to have
beheaded Simon, he beheaded a ram. Simon, by his art magic went away unhurt, and gathered together
the members of the ram, and hid him three days. The blood of the ram abode and congealed. The
third day he came and showed him to Nero, saying: Command my blood to be washed away, for lo
I am he that was beheaded, and as I promised I have risen again the third day. Whom Nero seeing,
was abashed and trowed verily that he had been the son of God. All this saith Leo. Sometime
also, when he was with Nero secretly within his conclave, the devil in his likeness spake without
to the people. Then the Romans had him in such worship that they made to him an image, and
wrote above, this title: To Simon the holy God. Peter and Paul entered to Nero and discovered
all the enchantments and malefices of Simon Magus, and Peter added thereto, seeing that like
as in Christ be two substances that is of God and man, so are in this magician two substances,
that is of man and of the devil. Then said Simon Magus, as St. Marcelle and Leo witness, lest
I should suffer any longer this enemy, I shall command my angels that they shall avenge me
on him. To whom Peter said: I dread nothing thine angels, but they dread me. Nero said: Dreadest
thou not Simon, that by certain things affirmeth his godhead? To whom Peter said: If dignity
or godhead be in him let him tell now what I think or what I do, which thought I shall first
tell to thee, that he shall not mow lie what I think. To whom Nero said: Come hither and say
what thou thinkest. Then Peter went to him and said to him secretly: Command some man to bring
to me a barley-loaf, and deliver it to me privily. When it was taken to him, he blessed it,
and hid it under his sleeve, and then said he: Now Simon say what I think, and have said and
done. Simon answered: Let Peter say what I think. Peter answered: What Simon thinketh that
I know, I shall do it when he hath thought. Then Simon having indignation, cried aloud: I command
that dogs come and devour him. And suddenly there appeared great dogs and made an assault against
Peter. He gave to them of the bread that he had blessed, and suddenly he made them to flee.
Then said Peter to Nero: Lo! I have showed you what he thought against me, not in words but
in deeds, for where he promised angels to come against me he brought dogs, thereby he showeth
that he hath none angels but dogs. Then said Simon: Hear ye, Peter and Paul; if I may not grieve
you here, ye shall come where me it shall behove to judge you. I shall spare you here. Hæc
Leo. Then Simon Magus, as Hegesippus and Linus say, elate in pride avaunted him that he can
raise dead men to life. And it happed that there was a young man dead, and then Nero let call
Peter and Simon, and all gave sentence by the will of Simon that he should be slain that might
not arise the dead man to life. Simon then, as he made his incantations upon the dead body,
he was seen move his head of them that stood by; then all they cried for to stone Peter. Peter
unnethe getting silence said: If the dead body live, let him arise, walk and speak, else know
ye that it is a fantasy that the head of the dead man moveth. Let Simon be taken from the bed.
And the body abode immovable. Peter standing afar making his prayer cried to the dead body,
saying: Young man, arise in the name of Jesu Christ of Nazareth crucified, and anon, he arose
living, and walked. Then, when the people would have stoned Simon Magus, Peter said: He is
in pain enough, knowing him to be overcome in his heart; our master hath taught us for to do
good for evil. Then said Simon to Peter and Paul: Yet is it not come to you that ye desire,
for ye be not worthy to have martyrdom, the which answered: That is, that we desire to have,
to thee shall never be well, for thou liest all that thou sayest.

Then as Marcel saith: Simon went to the house of Marcel and bound there a great black dog at
the door of the house, and said: Now I shall see if Peter, which is accustomed to come hither,
shall come, and if he come this dog shall strangle him. And a little after that, Peter and
Paul went thither, and anon Peter made the sign of the cross and unbound the hound, and the
hound was as tame and meek as a lamb, and pursued none but Simon, and went to him and took
and cast him to the ground under him, and would have strangled him. And then ran Peter to him
and cried upon the hound that he should not do him any harm. And anon the hound left and touched
not his body, but he all torent and tare his gown in such wise that he was almost naked. Then
all the people, and especially children, ran with the hound upon him and hunted and chased
him out of the town as he had been a wolf. Then for the reproof and shame he durst not come
in to the town of all a whole year after. Then Marcel that was disciple of Simon Magus, seeing
these great miracles, came to Peter, and was from then forthon his disciple.

And after, at the end of the year, Simon returned and was received again into the amity of
Nero. And then, as Leo saith, this Simon Magus assembled the people and showed to them how
he had been angered of the Galileans, and therefore he said that he would leave the city which
he was wont to defend and keep, and set a day in which he would ascend into heaven, for he
deigned no more to dwell in the earth. Then on the day that he had stablished, like as he had
said, he went up to an high tower, which was on the capitol, and there being crowned with laurel,
threw himself out from place to place, and began to fly in the air. Then said St. Paul to St.
Peter: It appertaineth to me to pray, and to thee for to command. Then said Nero: This man
is very God, and ye be two traitors. Then said St. Peter to St. Paul: Paul, brother, lift up
thine head and see how Simon flyeth. Then St. Paul said to St. Peter when he saw him fly so
high: Peter, why tarriest thou? perform that thou hast begun, God now calleth us. Then said
Peter: I charge and conjure you angels of Sathanas, which bear him in the air, by the name
of our Lord Jesu Christ, that ye bear ne sustain him no more, but let him fall to the earth.
And anon they let him fall to the ground and brake his neck and head, and he died there forthwith.
And when Nero heard say that Simon was dead, and that he had lost such a man, he was sorrowful,
and said to the apostles: Ye have done this in despite of me, and therefore I shall destroy
you by right evil example. Hæc Leo. Then he delivered them to Paulin, which was a much noble
man, and Paulin delivered them to Mamertin under the keeping of two knights, Processe and Martinian,
whom St. Peter converted to the faith. And they then opened the prison and let them all go
out that would go, wherefore, after the passion of the apostles, Paulin, when he knew that
they were Christian, beheaded both Processe and Martinian.

The brethren then, when the prison was opened, prayed Peter to go thence, and he would not,
but at the last he being overcome by their prayers went away. And when he came to the gate,
as, Leo witnesseth, which is called Sancta Maria ad passus, he met Jesu Christ coming against
him, and Peter said to him: Lord, whither goest thou? And he said to him: I go to Rome for
to be crucified again, and Peter demanded him: Lord, shalt thou be crucified again? And he
said: Yea, and Peter said then: Lord, I shall return again then for to be crucified with thee.
This said, our Lord ascended into heaven, Peter beholding it, which wept sore. And when Peter
understood that our Lord had said to him of his passion, he returned, and when he came to his
brethren, he told to them what our Lord had said. And anon he was taken of the ministers of
Nero and was delivered to the provost Agrippa, then was his face as clear as the sun, as it
is said. Then Agrippa said to him: Thou art he that glorifiest in the people, and in women,
that thou departest from the bed of their husbands. Whom the apostle blamed, and said to him
that he glorified in the cross of the Lord Jesu Christ. Then Peter was commanded to be crucified
as a stranger, and because that Paul was a citizen of Rome it was commanded that his head should
be smitten off. And of this sentence given against them, St. Dionysius in an epistle to Timothy
saith in this wise: O my brother Timothy, if thou hadst seen the agonies of the end of them
thou shouldst have failed for heaviness and sorrow. Who should not weep that hour when the
commandment of the sentence was given against them, that Peter should be crucified and Paul
be beheaded? Thou shouldst then have seen the turbes of the Jews and of the paynims that smote
them and spit in their visages. And when the horrible time came of their end that they were
departed that one from that other, they bound the pillars of the world, but that was not without
wailing and weeping of the brethren. Then said St. Paul to St. Peter: Peace be with thee that
are foundement of the church and pastor of the sheep and lambs of our Lord. Peter then said
to Paul: Go thou in peace, preacher of good manners, mediator, leader, and solace of rightful
people. And when they were withdrawn far from other I followed my master. They were not both
slain in one street. This saith St. Dionysius, and as Leo the pope and Marcel witness, when
Peter came to the cross, he said: When my Lord descended from heaven to the earth he was put
on the cross right up, but me whom it pleaseth him to call from the earth to heaven, my cross
shall show my head to the earth and address my feet to heaven, for I am not worthy to be put
on the cross like as my Lord was, therefore turn my cross and crucify me my head downward.
Then they turned the cross, and fastened his feet upward and the head downward. Then the people
were angry against Nero and the provost, and would have slain them because they made St. Peter
so to die; but he required them that they should not let his passion, and as Leo witnesseth,
our Lord opened the eyes of them that were there, and wept so that, they saw the angels with
crowns of roses and of lilies standing by Peter that was on the cross with the angels.

And then Peter received a book of our Lord, wherein he learned the words that he said. Then
as Hegesippus saith: Peter said thus: Lord, I have desired much to follow thee, but to be crucified
upright I have not usurped, thou art always rightful, high and sovereign, and we be sons of
the first man which have the head inclined to the earth, of whom the fall signifieth the form
of the generation human. Also we be born that we be seen inclined to the earth by effect, and
the condition is changed for the world weeneth that such thing is good, which is evil and bad.
Lord, thou art all things to me, and nothing is to me but thou only, I yield to thee thankings
with all the spirit of which I live, by which I understand, and by whom I call thee. And when
St. Peter saw that the good Christian men saw his glory, in yielding thankings to God and commending
good people to him, he rendered up his spirit. Then Marcel and Apuleius his brother, that were
his disciples, took off the body from the cross when he was dead, and anointed it with much
precious ointment, and buried him honorably. Isidore saith in the book of the nativity and
death of saints thus: Peter, after that he had governed Antioch, he founded a church under
Claudius the emperor, he went to Rome against Simon Magus, there he preached the gospel twenty-five
years and held the bishopric, and thirty-six years after the passion of our Lord he was crucified
by Nero turned the head downward, for he would be so crucified: Hæc Isidorus.

That same day Peter and Paul appeared to St. Dionysius, as he saith in his foresaid epistle
in these words: Understand the miracle and see the prodigy, my brother Timothy, of the day
of the martyrdom of them, for I was ready in the time of departing of them. After their death
I saw them together, hand in hand, entering the gates of the city, and clad with clothes of
light, and arrayed with crowns of clearness and light. Hæc Dionysius.

Nero was not unpunished for their death and other great sins and tyrannies that he committed,
for he slew himself with his own hand, which tyrannies were overlong to tell, but shortly I
shall rehearse here some. He slew his master Seneca because he was afraid of him when he went
to school. Also Nero slew his mother. Then for his pleasure he set Rome afire, which burned
seven days and seven nights, and was in a high tower and enjoyed him to see so great a flame
of fire, and sang merrily. He slew the senators of Rome to see what sorrow and lamentation
their wives would make. He fished with nets of gold thread, and the garment that he had worn
one day he would never wear it ne see it after. Then the Romans seeing his woodness [madness],
assailed him and pursued him unto without the city, and when he saw he might not escape them,
he took a stake and sharped it with his teeth, and therewith stuck himself through the body
and so slew himself. In another place it is read that he was devoured of wolves. Then the Romans
returned and found the frog, and threw it out of the city and there burned it.

In the time of St. Cornelius the pope, Greeks stole away the bodies of the apostles Peter and
Paul, but the devils that were in the idols were constrained by the divine virtue of God, and
cried and said: Ye men of Rome, succor hastily your gods which be stolen from you; for which
thing the good Christian people understood that they were the bodies of Peter and Paul. And
the Paynims had supposed that it had been their gods. Then assembled great number of Christian
men and of Paynims also, and pursued so long the Greeks that they doubted to have been slain,
and threw the bodies in a pit at the catacombs, but afterward they were drawn out by Christian
men. St. Gregory saith that the great force of thunder and lightning that came from heaven
made them so afraid that they departed each from other, and so left the bodies of the apostles
at the catacombs in a pit, but they doubted which bones were Peter's and which Paul's, wherefore
the good Christian men put them to prayers and fastings, and it was answered them from heaven
that the great bones longed to the preacher, and the less to the fisher, and so were departed,
and the bones were put in the church of him that it was dedicate of. And others say that Silvester
the pope would hallow the churches and took all the bones together, and departed them by weight,
great and small, and put that one-half in one church, and that other half in that other.

And St. Gregory recounteth in his dialogues that, in the church of St. Peter, where his bones
rest, was a man of great holiness and of meekness named Gentian, and there came a maid into
the church which was cripple, and drew her body and legs after her with her hands, and when
she had long required and prayed St. Peter for health, he appeared to her in a vision, and
said to her: Go to Gentian, my servant, and he shall restore thy health. Then began she to
creep here and there through the church, and inquired who was Gentian, and suddenly it happed
that he came to her that him sought, and she said to him: The holy apostle St. Peter sent me
to thee that thou shouldest make me whole and deliver me from my disease, and he answered:
If thou be sent to me from him, arise thou anon and go on thy feet. And he took her by the
hand and anon she was all whole, in such wise as she felt nothing of her grief nor malady,
and then she thanked God and St. Peter.

And in the same book St. Gregory saith when that a holy priest was come to the end of his life,
he began to cry in great gladness: Ye be welcome, my lords, ye be welcome that ye vouchsafe
to come to so little and poor a servant, and he said: I shall come and thank you. Then they
that stood by demanded who they were that he spake to, and he said to them wondering: Have
ye not seen the blessed apostles Peter and Paul? and as he cried again, his blessed soul departed
from the flesh.

Some have doubt whether Peter and Paul suffered death in one day, for some say it was the same
one day, but one a year after the other. And Jerome and all the Saints that treat of this matter
accord that it was on one day and one year, and so is it contained in an epistle of Denis,
and Leo the pope saith the same in a sermon, saying: We suppose but that it was not done without
cause that they suffered in one day and in one place the sentence of the tyrant, and they suffered
death in one time, to the end that they should go together to Jesu Christ, and both under one
persecutor to the end that equal cruelty should strain that one and that other. The day for
their merit, the place for their glory, and the persecution overcome by virtue.

Though they suffered both death in one day and in one hour, yet it was not in one place but
in diverse within Rome, and hereof saith a versifier in this wise: Ense coronatus Paulus, cruce
Petrus, eodem--Sub duce, luce, loco, dux Nero, Roma locus. That is to say, Paul crowned with
the sword, and Peter had the cross reversed, the place was the city of Rome. And howbeit that
they suffered death in one day, yet St. Gregory ordained that that day specially should be
the solemnity of St. Peter, and the next day commemoration of St. Paul, for the church of St.
Peter was hallowed that same day, and also forasmuch as he was more in dignity, and first in
conversion, and held the principality at Rome.

THE LIFE OF ST. PAUL THE APOSTLE

St. Paul the apostle, after his conversion, suffered many persecutions, the which the blessed
Hilary rehearseth shortly, saying: Paul the Apostle was beaten with rods at Philippi, he was
put in prison, and by the feet fast set in stocks, he was stoned in Lystra. In Iconia and Thessalonica
he was pursued of wicked people. In Ephesus he was delivered to wild beasts. In Damascus he
was let by a lepe down of the wall. In Jerusalem he was arrested, beaten, bound, and awaited
to be slain. In Cæsarea he was inclosed and defamed. Sailing toward Italy he was in peril of
death, and from thence he came to Rome and was judged under Nero, and there finished his life.
This saith St. Hilary: Paul took upon him to be apostle among the Gentiles. In Lystra was a
contract which he lost and redressed. A young man that fell out of a window and died, he raised
to life, and did many other miracles. At the Isle of Melita a serpent bit his hand, and hurted
him not, and he threw it into the fire. It is said that all they that came of the progeny and
lineage of that man that then harbored Paul may in no wise be hurt of no venemous beasts, wherefore
when their children be born they put serpents in their cradles for to prove if they be verily
their children or no. In some place it is said that Paul is less than Peter, otherwhile more,
and sometimes equal and like, for in dignity he is less, in preaching greater, and in holiness
they be equal. Haymo saith that Paul, from the cock-crow until the hour of five, he labored
with his hands, and after entended to preaching, and that endured almost to night, the residue
of the time was for to eat, sleep, and for prayer, which was necessary. He came to Rome when
Nero was not fully confirmed in the empire, and Nero hearing that there was disputing and questions
made between Paul and the Jews, he, recking not much thereof, suffered Paul to go where he
would, and preach freely. Jeronimus saith in his book, De viris illustribus, that the thirty-sixth
year after the Passion of our Lord, the second year of Nero, St. Paul was sent to Rome bound,
and two years he was in free keeping and disputed against the Jews, and after, he was let go
by Nero, and preached the gospel in the west parts. And the fourteenth year of Nero, the same
year and day that Peter was crucified, his head was smitten off. Hæc Jeronimus. The wisdom
and religion of him was published over all, and was reputed marvellous. He gat to him many
friends in the emperor's house and converted them to the faith of Christ, and some of his writings
were recited and read tofore the emperor, and of all men marvellously commended, and the senate
understood of him by things of authority.

It happed on a day that Paul preached about evensong time in a loft, a young man named Patroclus,
butler of Nero, and with him well-beloved, went for to see the multitude of people, and the
better for to hear Paul he went up into a window, and there sleeping, fell down and died, which
when Nero heard he was much sorry and heavy therefor, and anon ordered another in his office.
Paul knowing hereof by the Holy Ghost, said to them standing by him that they should go and
bring to him Patroclus, which was dead, and that the emperor loved so much. Whom when he was
brought, he raised to life and sent him with his fellows to the emperor, whom the emperor knew
for dead, and, while he made lamentation for him, it was told to the emperor that Patroclus
was come to the gate. And when he heard that Patroclus was alive he much marvelled, and commanded
that he should come in. To whom Nero said: Patroclus, livest thou? And he said: Yea, emperor,
I live; and Nero said: Who hath made thee to live again? And he said: The Lord Jesu Christ,
king of all worlds. Then Nero being wroth said: Then shall he reign ever and resolve all the
royaumes of the world? To whom Patroclus said: Yea, certainly, emperor; then Nero gave to him
a buffet, saying: Therefore thou servest him, and he said: Yea, verily, I serve him that hath
raised me from death to life. Then five of the ministers of Nero, that assisted him, said to
him: O emperor, why smitest thou this young man, truly and wisely answering to thee? Trust
verily we serve that same King Almighty. And when Nero heard that he put them in prison, for
strongly to torment them, whom he much had loved. Then he made to inquire and to take all Christian
men, and without examination made them to be tormented with overgreat torments. Then was Paul
among others bound and brought tofore Nero, to whom Nero said: O thou man, servant of the great
King, bound tofore me, why withdrawest thou my knights and drawest them to thee? To whom Paul
said: Not only from thy corner I have gathered knights, but also I gather from the universal
world to my Lord, to whom our king giveth such gifts that never shall fail, and granteth that
they shall be excluded from all indigence and need; and if thou wilt be to him subject, thou
shalt be safe, for he is of so great power that he shall come and judge all the world, and
destroy the figure thereof by fire. And when Nero heard that he should destroy the figure of
the world by fire, he commanded that all the Christian men should be burned by fire, and Paul
to be beheaded, as he that is guilty against his majesty. And so great a multitude of Christian
people were slain then, that the people of Rome brake up his palace and cried and moved sedition
against him, saying: Cæsar, amend thy manners and attemper thy commandments, for these be our
people that thou destroyest, and defend the empire of Rome. The emperor then dreading the noise
of the people, changed his decree and edict that no man should touch ne hurt no Christian man
till the emperor had otherwise ordained, wherefore Paul was brought again tofore Nero, whom
as soon as Nero saw, he cried and said: Take away this wicked man and behead him, and suffer
him no longer to live upon the earth. To whom Paul said: Nero, I shall suffer a little while,
but I shall live eternally with my Lord Jesu Christ. Nero said: Smite off his head, that he
may understand me stronger than his king, that when he is overcome we may see whether he may
live after. To whom Paul said: To the end that thou know me to live everlastingly, when my
head shall be smitten off, I shall appear to thee living, and then thou mayst know that Christ
is God of life and of death. And when he had said this he was led to the place of his martyrdom,
and as he was led, the three knights that led him said to him: Tell to us, Paul, who is he
your king that ye love so much that for his love ye had liefer die than live, and what reward
shall ye have therefor? Then Paul preached to them of the kingdom of heaven and of the pain
of hell, in such wise that he converted them to the faith, and they prayed him to go freely
whither he would. God forbid, brethren, said he, that I should flee, I am not fugitive, but
the lawful knight of Christ. I know well that from this transitory life I shall go to everlasting
life. As soon as I shall be beheaded, true men shall take away my body; mark ye well the place,
and come thither to-morrow, and ye shall find by my sepulchre two men, Luke and Titus, praying.
To whom when ye shall tell for what cause I have sent you to them, they shall baptize you and
make you heirs of the kingdom of heaven.

And whiles they thus spake together, Nero sent two knights to look if he were slain and beheaded
or no, and when thus St. Paul would have converted them, they said: When thou art dead and
risest again, then we shall believe, now come forth and receive that thou hast deserved. And
as he was led to the place of his passion in the gate of Hostence, a noble woman named Plautilla,
a disciple of Paul, who after another name was called Lemobia, for haply she had two names,
met there with Paul, which weeping, commended her to his prayers. To whom Paul said: Farewell,
Plautilla, daughter of everlasting health, lend to me thy veil or keverchief with which thou
coverest thy head, that I may bind mine eyes therewith, and afterward I shall restore it to
thee again. And when she had delivered it to him, the butchers scorned her, saying: Why hast
thou delivered to this enchanter so precious a cloth for to lose it? Then, when he came to
the place of his passion, he turned him toward the east, holding his hands up to heaven right
long, with tears praying in his own language and thanking our Lord; and after that bade his
brethren farewell, and bound his eyes himself with the keverchief of Plautilla, and kneeling
down on both knees, stretched forth his neck, and so was beheaded. And as soon as the head
was from the body, it said: Jesus Christus! which had been to him so sweet in his life. It
is said that he named Jesus or Christus, or both, fifty times. From his wound sprang out milk
into the clothes of the knight, and afterward flowed out blood. In the air was a great shining
light, and from the body came a much sweet odor.

Dionysius, in an epistle to Timothy, saith of the death of Paul thus: In that hour full of
heaviness, my well-beloved brother, the butcher, saying: Paul, make ready thy neck; then blessed
Paul looked up into heaven marking his forehead and his breast with the sign of the cross,
and then said anon: My Lord Jesus Christ, into thy hands I commend my spirit, etc. And then
without heaviness and compulsion he stretched forth his neck and received the crown of martyrdom,
the butcher so smiting off his head. The blessed martyr Paul took the keverchief, and unbound
his eyes, and gathered up his own blood, and put it therein and delivered to the woman, Then
the butcher returned, and Plautilla met him and demanded him, saying: Where hast thou left
my master? The knight answered: He lieth without the town with one of his fellows, and his
visage is covered with thy keverchief, and she answered and said: I have now seen Peter and
Paul enter into the city clad with right noble vestments, and also they had right fair crowns
upon their heads, more clear and more shining than the sun, and hath brought again my keverchief
all bloody which he hath delivered me. For which thing and work many believed in our Lord and
were baptized. And this is that St. Dionysius saith. And when Nero heard say this thing he
doubted him, and began to speak of all these things with his philosophers and with his friends;
and as they spake together of this matter, Paul came in, and the gates shut, and stood tofore
Cæsar and said: Cæsar, here is tofore thee Paul the knight of the king perdurable, and not
vanquished. Now believe then certainly that I am not dead but alive, but thou, caitiff, thou
shalt die of an evil death, because thou hast slain the servants of God. And when he had said
thus he vanished away. And Nero, what for dread and what for anger, he was nigh out of his
wit, and wist not what to do. Then by the counsel of his friends he unbound Patroclus and Barnabas
and let them go where they would.

And the other knights, Longinus, master of the knights, and Accestus, came on the morn to the
sepulchre of Paul, and there they found two men praying, that were Luke and Titus, and between
them was Paul. And when Luke and Titus saw them they were abashed and began to flee, and anon
Paul vanished away, and the knights cried after them and said: We come not to grieve you, but
know ye for truth that we come for to be baptized of you, like as Paul hath said whom we saw
now praying with you. When they heard that they returned and baptized them with great joy.
The head of St. Paul was cast in a valley, and for the multitude of other heads of men that
were slain and thrown there, it could not be known which it was.

THE LIFE OF ST. CHRISTOPHER

Christopher tofore his baptism was named Reprobus, but afterward he was named Christopher,
which is as much to say as bearing Christ. Christopher was of the lineage of the Canaanites,
and he was of a right great stature, and had a terrible and fearful cheer and countenance.
And he was twelve cubits of length, and as it is read in some histories that, when he served
and dwelled with the king of Canaan, it came in his mind that he would seek the greatest prince
that was in the world, and him would he serve and obey. And so far he went that he came to
a right great king, of whom the renomee generally was that he was the greatest of the world.
And when the king saw him, he received him into his service, and made him to dwell in his court.
Upon a time a minstrel sang tofore him a song in which he named oft the devil, and the king,
which was a Christian man, when he heard him name the devil, made anon the sign of the cross
in his visage. And when Christopher saw that, he had great marvel what sign it was, and wherefore
the king made it, and he demanded of him. And because the king would not say, he said: If thou
tell me not, I shall no longer dwell with thee, and then the king told to him, saying: Alway
when I hear the devil named, I fear that he should have power over me, and I garnish me with
this sign that he grieve not ne annoy me. Then Christopher said to him: Doubtest thou the devil
that he hurt thee not? Then is the devil more mighty and greater than thou art. I am then deceived
of my hope and purpose, for I had supposed I had found the most mighty and the most greatest
Lord of the world, but I commend thee to God, for I will go seek him for to be my Lord, and
I his servant. And then departed from this king, and hasted him for to seek the devil.

And as he went by a great desert, he saw a great company of knights, of which a knight cruel
and horrible came to him and demanded whither he went, and Christopher answered to him and
said: I go seek the devil for to be my master. And he said: I am he that thou seekest. And
then Christopher was glad, and bound him to be his servant perpetual, and took him for his
master and Lord. And as they went together by a common way, they found there a cross, erect
and standing. And anon as the devil saw the cross he was afeard and fled, and left the right
way, and brought Christopher about by a sharp desert. And after, when they were past the cross,
he brought him to the highway that they had left. And when Christopher saw that, he marvelled,
and demanded whereof he doubted, and had left the high and fair way, and had gone so far about
by so aspre a desert. And the devil would not tell him in no wise. Then Christopher said to
him: If thou wilt not tell me, I shall anon depart from thee, and shall serve thee no more.
Wherefor the devil was constrained to tell him, and said: There was a man called Christ which
was hanged on the cross, and when I see his sign I am sore afraid, and flee from it wheresoever
I see it. To whom Christopher said: Then he is greater, and more mightier than thou, when thou
art afraid of his sign, and I see well that I have labored in vain, when I have not founden
the greatest Lord of the world. And I will serve thee no longer, go thy way then, for I will
go seek Christ. And when he had long sought and demanded where he should find Christ, at last
he came into a great desert, to an hermit that dwelt there, and this hermit preached to him
of Jesu Christ and informed him in the faith diligently, and said to him: This king whom thou
desirest to serve, requireth the service that thou must oft fast. And Christopher said to him:
Require of me some other thing, and I shall do it, for that which thou requirest I may not
do. And the hermit said: Thou must then wake and make many prayers. And Christopher said to
him: I wot not what it is; I may do no such thing. And then the hermit said to him: Knowest
thou such a river, in which many be perished and lost? To whom Christopher said: I know it
well. Then said the hermit: Because thou art noble and high of stature and strong in thy members,
thou shalt be resident by that river, and thou shalt bear over all them that shall pass there,
which shall be a thing right convenable to our Lord Jesu Christ whom thou desirest to serve,
and I hope he shall show himself to thee. Then said Christopher: Certes, this service may I
well do, and I promise to him for to do it. Then went Christopher to this river, and made there
his habitacle for him, and bare a great pole in his hand instead of a staff, by which he sustained
him in the water, and bare over all manner of people without ceasing. And there he abode, thus
doing, many days. And in a time, as he slept in his lodge, he heard the voice of a child which
called him and said: Christopher, come out and bear me over. Then he awoke and went out, but
he found no man. And when he was again in his house, he heard the same voice and he ran Out
and found nobody. The third time he was called and came thither, and found a child beside the
rivage of the river, which prayed him goodly to bear him over the water. And then Christopher
lift up the child on his shoulders, and took his staff, and entered into the river for to pass.
And the water of the river arose and swelled more and more: and the child was heavy as lead,
and alway as he went further the water increased and grew more, and the child more and more
waxed heavy, insomuch that Christopher had great anguish and was afeard to be drowned. And
when he was escaped with great pain, and passed the water, and set the child aground, he said
to the child: Child, thou hast put me in great peril; thou weighest almost as I had all the
world upon me, I might bear no greater burden. And the child answered: Christopher, marvel
thee nothing, for thou hast not only borne all the world upon thee, but thou hast borne him
that created and made all the world, upon thy shoulders. I am Jesu Christ the king, to whom
thou servest in this work. And because that thou know that I say to be the truth, set thy staff
in the earth by thy house, and thou shalt see to-morn that it shall bear flowers and fruit,
and anon he vanished from his eyes. And then Christopher set his staff in the earth, and when
he arose on the morn, he found his staff like a palmier bearing flowers, leaves and dates.

