I sobbed bitterly at these thoughts as I sat on a trunk in that dark storeroom. Then, suddenly
recollecting the shameful punishment which was awaiting me, I would find myself back again
in actuality, and the dreams had fled. Soon, again, I began to fancy myself far away from the
house and alone in the world. I enter a hussar regiment and go to war. Surrounded by the foe
on every side, I wave my sword, and kill one of them and wound another--then a third,--then
a fourth. At last, exhausted with loss of blood and fatigue, I fall to the ground and cry,
"Victory!" The general comes to look for me, asking, "Where is our saviour?" whereupon I am
pointed out to him. He embraces me, and, in his turn, exclaims with tears of joy, "Victory!"
I recover and, with my arm in a black sling, go to walk on the boulevards. I am a general now.
I meet the Emperor, who asks, "Who is this young man who has been wounded?" He is told that
it is the famous hero Nicolas; whereupon he approaches me and says, "My thanks to you! Whatsoever
you may ask for, I will grant it." To this I bow respectfully, and, leaning on my sword, reply,
"I am happy, most august Emperor, that I have been able to shed my blood for my country. I
would gladly have died for it. Yet, since you are so generous as to grant any wish of mine,
I venture to ask of you permission to annihilate my enemy, the foreigner St. Jerome" And then
I step fiercely before St. Jerome and say, "YOU were the cause of all my fortunes! Down now
on your knees!"

Unfortunately this recalled to my mind the fact that at any moment the REAL St. Jerome might
be entering with the cane; so that once more I saw myself, not a general and the saviour of
my country, but an unhappy, pitiful creature.

Then the idea of God occurred to me, and I asked Him boldly why He had punished me thus, seeing
that I had never forgotten to say my prayers, either morning or evening. Indeed, I can positively
declare that it was during that hour in the store-room that I took the first step towards the
religious doubt which afterwards assailed me during my youth (not that mere misfortune could
arouse me to infidelity and murmuring, but that, at moments of utter contrition and solitude,
the idea of the injustice of Providence took root in me as readily as bad seed takes root in
land well soaked with rain). Also, I imagined that I was going to die there and then, and drew
vivid pictures of St. Jerome's astonishment when he entered the store-room and found a corpse
there instead of myself! Likewise, recollecting what Natalia Savishna had told me of the forty
days during which the souls of the departed must hover around their earthly home, I imagined
myself flying through the rooms of Grandmamma's house, and seeing Lubotshka's bitter tears,
and hearing Grandmamma's lamentations, and listening to Papa and St. Jerome talking together.
"He was a fine boy," Papa would say with tears in his eyes. "Yes," St. Jerome would reply,
"but a sad scapegrace and good-for-nothing." "But you should respect the dead," would expostulate
Papa. "YOU were the cause of his death; YOU frightened him until he could no longer bear the
thought of the humiliation which you were about to inflict upon him. Away from me, criminal!"
Upon that St. Jerome would fall upon his knees and implore forgiveness, and when the forty
days were ended my soul would fly to Heaven, and see there something wonderfully beautiful,
white, and transparent, and know that it was Mamma.

