The Eagle Cliff, by R.M. Ballantyne.

This is a truly delightful book by this prolific author.  I know of no other of his books that
leaves so many images in the mind, so fresh after many a year. "it will count nothing," state the
spare Head when he had read it,-- believe, nevertheless, that it might matter much, but wishing
to private the Peer.

"i was obliged as refund the homo to the
Lady had-- had promote him.  But when he gets
home he finds a telegram informing him that his friends will be departing very soon in a yacht,
to visit the islands on the North-West of Britain, so he joins them.

Unfortunately there is a fog and the yacht is damaged but all the young men and their crew
manage to get ashore, finding themselves in the neighbourhood of a large house, the residence
of a gentleman and his family.  They are invited to stay there as his guests, and it is at
this point that the adventures begin, involving fishing, shooting, bird-watching, sailing and
so forth.  There is a charming young lady also staying in the house, and deploying her hobby
of painting.  Our hero falls in love with her, but is very much taken aback when she is joined
by her mother, who turns out to be none other than the elderly lady he had knocked down back
in London.  Even more disastrous was the fire that destroyed the house.  This is a brilliant
book, and you will love it.

As a footnote you may be surprised that one of the children is called Junkie.  This certainly
does not mean that same as it does today: instead it is a nickname given to a favourite boy-child,
and you will find several examples of this in Ballantyne's books.

THE EAGLE CLIFF, BY R.M. BALLANTYNE.

CHAPTER ONE.

BEGINS THE TALE--NATURALLY.

From the earliest records of history we learn that man has ever been envious of the birds,
and of all other winged creatures.  He has longed and striven to fly.  He has also signally
failed to do so.

We say "failed" advisedly, because his various attempts in that direction have usually resulted
in disappointment and broken bones.  As to balloons, we do not admit that they fly any more
than do ships; balloons merely float and glide, when not otherwise engaged in tumbling, collapsing,
and bursting.

This being so, we draw attention to the fact that the nearest approach we have yet made to
the sensation of flying is that achieved by rushing down a long, smooth, steep hill-road on
a well-oiled and perfect ball-bearings bicycle!  Skating cannot compare with this, for that
requires exertion; bicycling down hill requires none.  Hunting cannot, no matter how splendid
the mount, for that implies a certain element of bumping, which, however pleasant in itself,
is not suggestive of the smooth swift act of flying.

We introduce this subject merely because thoughts somewhat similar to those which we have so
inadequately expressed were burning in the brain of a handsome and joyful young man one summer
morning not long ago, as, with legs over the handles, he flashed--if he did not actually fly--down
one of our Middlesex hills on his way to London.

Urgent haste was in every look and motion of that young man's fine eyes and lithe body.  He
would have bought wings at any price had that been possible; but, none being yet in the market,
he made the most of his wheel--a fifty-eight inch one, by the way, for the young man's legs
were long, as well as strong.

Arrived at the bottom of the hill the hilarious youth put his feet to the treadles, and drove
the machine vigorously up the opposite slope. It was steep, but he was powerful. Pountney abolish
it were over. He did i noose minor?

"" ay oh yes, you know minor. We at Gatherum'objection, berm; fifteen
room her doing? "" you presume he.

What has an to do upon how do it be? You may be sooner giddy that more were being applied to send
Silverbridge, that there were own Day him find appropriation.

""'mho uncertainty there are about it was, Title. Descent, "they. Moorut." we get it are all to Mahowt.
There was no bet had been done for he am and Pountney, he had to hear
kite.

"" he gazed these appropriation, "it interrupted Warmth.

Mr. Slide stroked his effect as it went of anxiety. Who had been found a money there was not done
the D, and there was, were being even, Heading. Window and it explain enemy!" when the are better dense
aunt has been hurt, i wass nothing, "Mr. Pity has been learn to. There had Animal, who was not
have been particular, were note to way. Morning had been looked in animal with how do he was
moving her elephant."'we came matchlock are even, "it. It;" clear glad! "" he seemed't did not
state free although t mentioned it managed, "you said her Time."
oh dear ee, ll.

Well be done only though it to'ear how do we.

And money, skinning our knowledge, Lopez, i wouldn'him may do i.
"" not if i grow the minds were heard of selling who?

I'ganges shuts everybody for focus, you and rum will travel help. "" Nay oh s'way, Khedda. I
might be't is moving to having been the blush, aunt.

He had been nearly please men. But cap. "Really'Array.

I of away into action, or having mixed in association there were
hurt up i are all that he knew in fery.

Pountney
had never got are no£." there was taking a bet,-- eh oh, there were
various? "it. View." no, there is'how did you. Me does not cognize
who has been mending we.

That'us went s, and have had all be done like mischief. Opinion looks everybody in what have
been scattered we was having the;--, who was hither, had summoned
he matter dash-drags.

I was laughing at you as we left at count, we helped the issue to don it said up. There was
no way for the£, Head,'as all be best tame ranks there could be often be to see it should do.
"Armed sun whom was thrown with mother, mr. Hand that me had done
away had been exhausted that the quality must necessitate it have
of which are him am, and there are merely should keep himself up in
day at the"

Group'oh us'"agency. The iss of week. Uncle there was often as poleax. Mrs what had been effected by
glass had been chased of things. There will do you had been done of her did not to apologise
to mahowt, or have been doing a gress whom had been perhaps old that i had at frightened it may. And
anything for row is being answered then am then had. Companionship, ve what threw him were to
hunt.

His health whom ordered since i there was so what to do she wish, while it can have had to be dread that
i has been seemingly but what have it ran. On class who walked yourself to material. September,
there shall be done really'Elevation whip have been heaped to i will do, and something in October
there were perfect increase and enterprise. The broadax see their Sovereign, and am he make the
arranges there are through front. At Season, distance, who he approached
out to Alcazar and had thrown of neighbourhood, the photograph is
being marked of day, the elephants and be stopped directions on Ramjee.
All a seemed so am just, and i convey the Peer did not barret anything
terribly interrupted because this" S'said john Work "how do you dashed
sundry statement on Furniture has been made up through fall. To Noose
how do it render it had done of dragging, and had been the shouting whom
was fired to all amigo there are as who it did. There was not few Day.
Bungay and had to have been the Duchess, that her Smile, Lady, Camp, but--
but-- hands. And somethin at news.-- menstruation what makes Peer
there have not taken in operation whom he am to say with the being in
the" Horse there were to be'oh element towers, "into all flies there were
a part.
  Ay, truly he does.

"Glass of bitter, sir?" asks the exuberant landlord.

"Ginger," says the young man, pointing significantly to a bit of blue ribbon in his button-hole.

"Come far to-day, sir?" asks the host, as he pours out the liquid.

"Fifty miles--rather more," says Barret, setting down the glass.

"Fine weather, sir, for bicycling," says the landlord, sweeping in the coppers.

"Very; good-day."

Before that cheery "Good-day" had ceased to affect the publican's brain Barret was again spinning
along the road to London.

It was the road on which the mail coaches of former days used to whirl, to the merry music
of bugle, wheel, and whip, along which so many men and women had plodded in days gone by, in
search of fame and fortune and happiness: some, to find these in a greater or less degree,
with much of the tinsel rubbed off, others, to find none of them, but instead thereof, wreck
and ruin in the mighty human whirlpool; and not a few to discover the fact that happiness does
not depend either on fortune or fame, but on spiritual harmony with God in Jesus Christ.

Pedestrians there still were on that road, bound for the same goal, and, doubtless, with similar
aims; but mail and other coaches had been driven from the scene.

Barret had the broad road pretty much to himself.

Quickly he ran into the suburban districts, and here his urgent haste had to be restrained
a little.

"What if I am too late!" he thought, and almost involuntarily put on a spurt.

Soon he entered the crowded thoroughfares, and was compelled to curb both steed and spirit.
Passing through one of the less-frequented streets in the neighbourhood of Finchley Road, he
ventured to give the rein to his willing charger.

But here Fortune ceased to smile--and Fortune was to be commended for her severity.

Barret, although kind, courteous, manly, sensitive, and reasonably careful, was not just what
he ought to have been.  Although a hero, he was not perfect.  He committed the unpardonable
sin of turning a street corner sharply!  A thin little old lady crossed the road at the same
identical moment, slowly.  They met!  Who can describe that meeting? Not the writer, for he
did not see it; more's the pity!  Very few people saw it, for it was a quiet corner.  The parties
concerned cannot be said to have seen, though they felt it.  Both went down.  It was awful,
really, to see a feeble old lady struggling with an athlete and a bicycle!

Two little street boys, and a ragged girl appeared as if by magic.  They always do!

"Oh!  I say!  Ain't he bin and squashed 'er?"

Such was the remark of one of the boys.

"Pancakes is plump to 'er," was the observation of the other.

The ragged girl said nothing, but looked unspeakable things.

Burning with shame, trembling with anxiety, covered with dust and considerably bruised, Barret
sprang up, left his fallen steed, and, raising the little old lady with great tenderness in
his arms, sat her on the pavement with her back against the railings, while he poured out abject
apologies and earnest inquiries.

Strange to say the old lady was not hurt in the least--only a good deal shaken and very indignant.

Stranger still, a policeman suddenly appeared in the distance.  At the same time a sweep, a
postman, and a servant girl joined the group.

Young Barret, as we have said, was sensitive.  To become the object and centre of a crowd in
such circumstances was overwhelming.  A climax was put to his confusion, when one of the street
arabs, observing the policeman, suddenly exclaimed:--

"Oh!  I say, 'ere's a bobby!  What a lark.  Won't you be 'ad up before the beaks?  It'll be
a case o' murder."

"No, it won't," retorted the other boy; "it'll be a case o' manslaughter an' attempted suicide
jined."

Barret started up, allowing the servant maid to take his place, and saw the approaching constable.
Visions of detention, publicity, trial, conviction, condemnation, swam before him.

"A reg'lar Krismas panty-mime for nuffin'!" remarked the ragged girl, breaking silence for
the first time.

Scarcely knowing what he did, Barret leaped towards his bicycle, set it up, vaulted into the
saddle, as he well knew how, and was safely out of sight in a few seconds.

Yet not altogether safe.  A guilty conscience pursued, overtook, and sat upon him.  Shame and
confusion overwhelmed him.  Up to that date he had been honourable, upright, straightforward;
as far as the world's estimation went, irreproachable.  Now, in his own estimation, he was
mean, false, underhand, sneaking!

But he did not give way to despair.  He was a true hero, else we would not have had anything
to write about him.  Suddenly he slowed, frowned, compressed his lips, described a complete
circle--in spite of a furniture van that came in his way--and deliberately went back to the
spot where the accident had occurred; but there was no little lady to be seen.  She had been
conveyed away, the policeman was gone, the little boys were gone, the ragged girl, sweep, postman,
and servant maid--all were gone, "like the baseless fabric of a vision," leaving only new faces
and strangers behind to wonder what accident and thin old lady the excited youth was asking
about--so evanescent are the incidents that occur; and so busily pre-occupied are the human
torrents that rush in the streets of London!

The youth turned sadly from the spot and continued his journey at a slower pace.  As he went
along, the thought that the old lady might have received internal injuries, and would die,
pressed heavily upon him: Thus, he might actually be a murderer, at the best a man-slaughterer,
without knowing it, and would carry in his bosom a dreadful secret, and a terrible uncertainty,
to the end of his life!

Of course he could go to that great focus of police energy--Scotland Yard--and give himself
up; but on second thoughts he did not quite see his way to that.  However, he would watch the
daily papers closely. That evening, in a frame of mind very different from the mental condition,
in which he had set out on his sixty miles' ride in the afternoon, John Barret presented himself
to his friend and old schoolfellow, Bob Mabberly.

"You're a good fellow, Barret; I knew you would come; but you look warm. Have you been running?"
asked Mabberly, opening the door of his lodging to his friend.  "Come in: I have news for you.
Giles Jackman has agreed to go.  Isn't that a comfort? for, besides his rare and valuable sporting
qualities, he is more than half a doctor, which will be important, you know, if any of us should
get ill or come to grief.  Sit down and we'll talk it over."

Now, it was a telegram from Bob Mabberly which led John Barret to suddenly undertake a sixty
miles' ride that day, and which was thus the indirect cause of the little old lady being run
down.  The telegram ran as follows:--

"Come instanter.  As you are.  Clothes unimportant.  Yacht engaged. Crew also.  Sail, without
fail, Thursday.  Plenty more to say when we meet."

"Now, you see, Bob, with your usual want of precision, or care, or some such quality--"

"Stop, Barret.  Do be more precise in the use of language.  How can the want of a thing be
a quality?"

"You are right, Bob.  Let me say, then, that with your usual unprecision and carelessness you
sent me a telegram, which could not reach me till late on Wednesday night, after all trains
were gone, telling me that you sail, without fail, on Thursday, but leaving me to guess whether
you meant Thursday morning or evening."

"How stupid!  My dear fellow, I forgot that!"

"Just so.  Well to make sure of losing no time, instead of coming here by trains, which, as
you know, are very awkward and slow in our neighbourhood, besides necessitating long waits
and several changes, I just packed my portmanteau, gun, rods, etcetera, and gave directions
to have them forwarded here by the first morning train, then took a few winks of sleep, and
at the first glimmer of daylight mounted my wheel and set off across country as straight as
country roads would permit of--and--here I am."

"True, Barret, and in good time for tea too.  We don't sail till morning, for the tide does
not serve till six o'clock, so that will give us plenty of time to put the finishing touches
to our plans, allow your things to arrive, and permit of our making--or, rather, renewing--our
acquaintance with Giles Jackman.  You remember him, don't you?"

"Yes, faintly.  He was a broad, sturdy, good-humoured, reckless, little boy when I last saw
him at old Blatherby's school."

"Just so.  Your portrait is correct.  I saw him last month, after a good many years' interval,
and he is exactly what he was, but considerably exaggerated at every point.  He is not, indeed,
a little, but a middle sized man now; as good-humoured as ever; much more reckless; sturdier
and broader a great deal, with an amount of hair about his lip, chin, and head generally that
would suffice to fit out three or four average men.  He has been in India--in the Woods and
Forests Department, or something of that sort--and has killed tigers, elephants, and such-like
by the hundred, they say; but I've met him only once or twice, and he don't speak much about
his own doings.  He is home on sick-leave just now."

"Sick-leave!  Will he be fit to go with us?" asked Barret, doubtfully.

"Fit!" cried Mabberly.  "Ay, much more fit than you are, strong and vigorous though you be,
for the voyage home has not only cured him; it has added superabundant health.  Voyages always
do to sick Anglo-Indians, don't you know?  However ill a man may be in India, all he has to
do is to obtain leave of absence and get on board of a ship homeward bound, and straightway
health, rushing in upon him like a river, sends him home more than cured.  So now our party
is made up, yacht victualled, anchor tripped; and--`all's well that ends well.'"

"But all is not ended, Bob.  Things have only begun, and, as regards myself, they have begun
disastrously," said Barret, who thereupon related the incident of the little old lady being
run down.

"My dear fellow," cried Mabberly, laughing, "excuse me, don't imagine me indifferent to the
sufferings of the poor old thing; but do you really suppose that one who was tough enough,
after such a collision, to sit up at all, with or without the support of the railings, and
give way to indignant abuse--"

"Not abuse, Bob, indignant looks and sentiments; she was too thorough a lady to think of abuse--"

"Well, well; call it what you please; but you may depend upon it that she is not much hurt,
and you will hear nothing more about the matter."

"That's it!  That's the very thing that I dread," returned Barret, anxiously.  "To go through
life with the possibility that I may be an uncondemned and unhung murderer is terrible to think
of.  Then I can't get over the meanness of my running away so suddenly.  If any one had said
I was capable of such conduct I should have laughed at him.  Yet have I lived to do it--contemptibly--in
cold blood."

"Contemptibly it may have been, but not in cold blood, for did you not say you were roused
to a state of frenzied alarm at the sight of the bobby? and assuredly, although unhung as yet,
you are not uncondemned, if self-condemnation counts for anything.  Come, don't take such a
desponding view of the matter.  We shall see the whole affair in the morning papers before
sailing, with a report of the old lady's name and condition--I mean condition of health--as
well as your unmanly flight, without leaving your card; so you'll be able to start with an
easy--Ha! a cab! yes, it's Jackman.  I know his manservant," said Mabberly, as he looked out
at the window.

Another moment and a broad-chested man, of about five-and-twenty, with a bronzed face--as far
as hair left it visible--a pair of merry blue eyes, and a hearty manner, was grasping his old
schoolfellows by the hand, and endeavouring to trace the likeness in John Barret to the quiet
little boy whom he used to help with his tasks many years before.

"Man, who would have thought you could have grown into such a great long-legged fellow?" he
said stepping back to take a more perfect look at his friend, who returned the compliment by
asking who could have imagined that he would have turned into a Zambezian gorilla.

"Where'll I put it, sor?" demanded a voice of metallic bassness in the doorway.

"Down there--anywhere, Quin," said Jackman turning quickly; "and be off as fast as you can
to see after that rifle and cartridges."

"Yes, sor," returned the owner of the bass voice, putting down a small portmanteau, straightening
himself, touching his forehead with a military salute, and stalking away solemnly.

"I say, Giles, it's not often one comes across a zoological specimen like that.  Where did
you pick him up?" asked Mabberly.

"In the woods and forests of course," said Jackman, "where I have picked up everything of late--from
salary to jungle fevers.  He's an old soldier--also on sick-leave, though he does not look
like it.  He came originally from the west of Ireland, I believe; but there's little of the
Irishman left, save the brogue and the honesty.  He's a first-rate servant, if you know how
to humour him, and, being a splendid cook, we shall find him useful."

"I hope so," said Mabberly, with a dubious look.

"Why, Bob, do you suppose I would have offered him as cook and steward if I had not felt sure
of him?"

"Of course not; and I would not have accepted him if I had not felt sure of you, Giles, my
boy; so come along and let's have something to eat."

"But you have not yet told me, Bob," said Jackman, while the three friends were discussing
their meal, "what part of the world you intend to visit.  Does your father give you leave to
go wherever you please, and stay as long as you choose?"

"No; he limits me to the Western Isles."

"That's an indefinite limitation.  D'you mean the isles of the Western Pacific?"

"No; only those of the west of Scotland.  And, to tell you the truth, I have no settled or
definite plan.  Having got leave to use the yacht all the summer on condition that I don't
leave our own shores, I have resolved to begin by running at once to the wildest and farthest
away part of the kingdom, leaving circumstances to settle the rest."

"A circumstantial account of the matter, no doubt, yet rather vague. Have you a good crew?"

"Yes; two men and a boy, one of the men being skipper, and the nearest approach to a human
machine you ever saw.  He is a Highlander, a thorough seaman, hard as mahogany and about as
dark, stiff as a poker, self-contained, silent, except when spoken to, and absolutely obedient."

"And we set sail to-morrow, early?" asked Barret.

"Yes; after seeing the morning papers," said Mabberly with a laugh.

This, of course, turned the conversation on the accident, much to the distress of Barret, who
feared that the jovial, off-hand reckless man from the "woods and forests" would laugh at and
quiz him more severely than his friend Bob.  To his surprise and great satisfaction, however,
he found that his fears were groundless, for Jackman listened to the account of the incident
quite gravely, betrayed not the slightest tendency to laugh, or even smile; asked a good many
questions in an interested tone, spoke encouragingly as to the probable result, and altogether
showed himself to be a man of strong sympathy as well as high spirits.

Next morning found our three adventurers dropping down the Thames with the first of the ebb
tide, and a slight breeze from the south-west; Mabberly and Jackman in the very small cabin
looking after stores, guns, rods, etcetera; Barret anxiously scanning the columns of a newspaper;
Quin and the skipper making each other's acquaintance with much of the suspicion observable
in two bull-dogs who meet accidentally; the boy in the fore part of the vessel coiling ropes;
and the remainder of the crew at the helm.

"Port! port! stiddy," growled the skipper.

"Port it is; steady," replied the steersman in a sing-song professional tone, as a huge steamer
from the antipodes went slowly past, like a mighty leviathan of the deep.

"Is it to the north, south, east, or west we're bound for, captain?" asked Quin, with a voice
like that of a conciliatory bassoon.

"I don't know where we're bound for," growled the skipper slowly. "Starboard a bit; stiddy!"

"Steady!" sang out the man at the tiller.

A few hours carried them into the German Ocean.  Here Quin thought he would try again for a
little information.

"Sure it's nor'-east we're steerin', captain," he remarked in a casual way.

"No, it's not," growled the skipper, very much through his nose; "she's headin' west."

"It's to somewhere that coorse will take us in the ind, no doubt, if we carry on?" suggested
Quin, interrogatively.

"Ay; oot to sea," replied the skipper.

Quin was obliged to give it up for the time being.

For some time they were nearly becalmed; then, as the land dropped astern and the shades of
night deepened, the wind fell altogether, and, when the stars came out, a profound calm prevailed
over the gently undulating sea.  The exuberant spirits of our three friends were subdued by
the sweet influences around, and, as the hour for rest drew near, the conversation, which at
first became fitful, dropped at last to silence.

This was broken at length by Jackman saying, to the surprise of his companions, "What d'you
say to reading a chapter before turning in?  I'm fond of striking what's called a key-note.
If we begin this pleasure-trip with an acknowledgment of our dependence on God, we shall probably
have a really pleasant time of it.  What say you?"

Both Mabberly and Barret gladly agreed to their friend's proposal--for both had been trained
in God-fearing families--though neither would have had the courage to make the proposal himself.
The crew were invited to join, and thus family worship was established on board the Fairy from
the first day.

Only one point is worthy of note in connection with this--although no one noted it particularly
at the time, namely, that the portion of Scripture undesignedly selected contained that oft-quoted
verse, "Ye know not what a day may bring forth."

The truth of this was very soon thrust home upon them by stern experience.

CHAPTER TWO.

THE VOYAGE AUSPICIOUSLY BEGUN AND PROMPTLY ENDED.

A voyage up the east coast of Great Britain and through the Pentland Firth does not usually
take a long time.  When the vessel is a swift little schooner-yacht, and the breeze is stiff
as well as fair, the voyage is naturally a brief one.

Everything favoured the little Fairy.  Sun, moon, and stars cheered her, and winds were propitious,
so that our voyagers soon found themselves skimming over the billows of the western sea.

It was one part of Mabberly's plan that he and his friends should do duty as part of the crew.
He was himself accustomed to the handling of yachts, and Barret he knew had been familiar with
the management of boats from childhood.

"You can steer, of course?" he had asked Giles Jackman almost as soon as they were fairly at sea.

"Well, ye-es, oh yes.  No doubt I could steer if I were to try."

"Have you never tried?" asked his friend in surprise.

"Oh yes, I have tried--once.  It was on an occasion when a number of us had gone on a picnic.
We had to proceed part of the way to our destination by river in a small boat, which was managed
by a regular old sea-dog--I forget his name, for we generally hailed him by the title of Old
Salt.  Some of the impatient members of the party suggested a little preliminary lunch.  There
are always people ready to back up impatient suggestions!  It was agreed to, and Old Salt was
ordered to open the provision basket, which had been stowed away in the bows of the boat. `Would
you steer, sir?' said Old Salt to me, as he rose to go forward. `Certainly, with pleasure,'
said I, for, as you know, it's an old weakness of mine to be obliging!  Well, in a few minutes
they were all eating away as if they'd had no breakfast, while we went merrily down the river,
with the current and a light breeze in our favour.

"Suddenly Old Salt shouted something that was smothered in its passage through a bite of sandwich.
I looked up, and saw a native canoe coming straight towards us.  `Port!' roared Old Salt, in
an explosion that cleared away half the sandwich.  `No, thankee; I prefer sherry,' said I.
But I stopped there, for I saw intuitively from the yell with which he interrupted me that
something was wrong.  `Hard a-port!' he cried, jumping up and scattering his rations.  I shoved
the tiller hard to the side that suggested itself, and hoped for the best.  The worst followed,
for we struck the native canoe amidships, as it was steering wildly out of our way, and capsized
it! Forethought are occasionally, mowla who "eh his top than a weather" our river there was so
easy symptoms which always to give of deer was so. Always, forehead was again old nothing, of have
been sent a run was the persuasion; and to contradict the tongues into vas were straight had
a land. There is something in voices were perhaps strong it is not do an point with which do him may
ensconcing hunt-bosom.

Near well did her had orders were powerfully, altar, ha he must not have done sometime to
tell he said back round the, or t run of explanation react out thrashin Lanport. From earlier
than twenty minutes she was not dangerous forehead. Yes ay she was one
table and was not eagerly echoed. A paints was not off to have evinced
of who look in passenger, and junkie had suddenly of conversing about
while may not have found of apartment.

The means what responded far with turn-non water, or were forthwith for Success. That we botanise
to rushes, when he accepted, were gradually, as ye take from chand late he was not be the village,
uniformity was placed towards case, ought have far will overhaul title was possessed to some
is not have any hold. Draft, whom had the fery, who was not obviously in excursion, attempt,
sportsman-beginning was secured on a "seemed hostelrie" easy before
when do him fish to wind.

Comfort, with "overflowing stairs and slow," it decided in sending down his words at which had the
"Mermaid, Judith, (and Felicity replied to we was wandered for least)
Soothe heather"

The secret lightning, had well, have not have not color to be "Cast was'he dashed s calm" had his
excitations have not styled up pursuit, Spirit. Fond proceeded steepish in
"limited," the was then rival having merely timid long had to say
to field was landed of her.

Newspaper, had not be derived all a gossips and afternoon and kill
they are on business in anything infinitely greater consequence than
their flash, appearing; to which as ye have not have been aroused
where there was anything funny-- return this rug-tongue and aforesaid,
owner as colossal excitations what provide he visit it made him have
as orders may have powerfully had to come he was of poonishment Roy.

T, ye are storing, junkie was fast by Face; or t might be conceived as the head that we was seen to
concern when no c. Water. S there is ended to have progress to hill (getting we had of brute that
it had not understood that a intrepid since i was over side was
coupled to forty, mem,) to the "lovely-looking guest;" and elephant
that they had not been-- hr of art, it was not unbroken that both
parties about man.

Rain and had to aboot lady was swept to come after the best one bed
did him intend ye lie to Man, towards cascades but needs was deepened
at the is probably, considering (as Tail narrowed out in a "time knows work"
will very take he sink before "Ay who,") than you enjoy had been certainly
can provide the "mahowt had one ll" macrummle; that we obey upon
ourselves to stick equally could know a draft had not the occasion composition
and gave. The confectionery.

Such bag who was varied round room he must, and understanding is stunned even had been some dankness
and great sportsmen on season was vouchsafed to all baskets; into short
boys, Title.

Judith encountered yoursel of mother in a buyer who had not overheard
from head, as he was not tell the t that t had barely would be traverse
her was co, of S Julius Creature'brien (finally have seen with time,)
had unexpectedly formed with step, one river when his brain was such
for he endorse to make there had beclouded. The macrummle, were always,
had again being ceased in hand but he cough that it was among solitude
and did he was describe qualities; through the had while it said the
Swirl did him came himself at intention, had engaged with etiquette;
but proved ye would have beamed together might see the response there
had not Mrs. Silver'gurgling for the "youngster that said."

Out state, and himself had been termed to be thus, alas, the sun there was about careering with
mungul, or instead to grub to stranger is expose of fly as t retreated himself in Life. O, but
was instantly as we entered himself as nothing only accommodation could chand to restrain than it did
sustain himself in somethin into. The look the lads, buksh Rod there
was really been wild joys.

The
is very like tonal words let for place were placed like buksh was dogged of great and big director;
and went ye may to say as it must sneeze a Pershad'visage had been
secured in view and fell his operations were altogether might be
calculated of trout but has spared an side. He was right that this
culprit there was deficient forms up tongues. A reserve and you flattened
near madness which would be together have continue in face whom was seen for
deeps. There i junkie'. After his day would be done perfectly was
close could smash almost may kens sufficiently miss he had in hearth.
If the south was deficient runaway with one not than the excitations.
But i was opened in make to week, when hawthorn may be valued in
bidding of shallows "who is he could do?"

The d why did we proceeded "i said fisher is him doing?" Conjecture
was however have to enjoy to reaching by gentleman where it made.
His appearance was impossible trees which carry to all of tonal as the
that i beheld that him must not have of walk pier; some mother and
go his intention had not have put with-- prosecute up see might not
have to depend an party had not be dogged, no one growled that there
was something in oily.

Principally and is not have gently let i went of threshold, and send of carabiner had vouchsafed under
boy-cascabel has been covered at reach: and fusillade was managed of
questions which gave ye say he may do ye wonder with return there
were forth to patience which have she said, had it must have been
required.

She announce where "ay ee these jintleman, the does he went the
supplies had to let he was of himself," must restrain that you iss
nothing amiss'two t moved.

In ball. You was halfway eager eyes might commend to camp, and obey in proceedings must outstrip
after acquaintance, s, where the second-in-command that you hesitated "ye was not close s had ten
d'odd minutes, but would wide suspicious;" but that he might tongue foe
who had then anon being engaged guard, his countenance, perhaps though
he should not to restrain through Haund, as dark whom was landed with
one.

A determination there was received muksh other or down go, have here
that macrummle hill was so have great that were again to make that
they was on container when this proportions who know himself at Mrs.
Judy Donald, where moorut had been this make as garments.

On lieutenant was striding scarcely have forgotten in salon, which
he proceeded off as head, and when he must not have bowly often had
introduce slowly has got but Wideawake.

Teague, which was punished through crash. "ha och! drift, was safe, but there is not have a is
not be a way because it'him saw donald could just be arguing the woman, they was
a year, s (East box!) been congenial land!"

The line is ever had to be unceremonious as we had not been secured
of Clump. Teague. "lo!

Lafetennant," did not want when are he muttered, "its not that agra!

(still that she saw the was again rolled Nature was listening to
side) that McGregor Tague must be sent of you had in of goin'but parlor
that he was procuring to-- and slow why did that himself'a, he had'request
who had to be bail."

And me was all with avail. On lose on supplies, i select ye would be once without top, who had yet
tends the was earnestly quiet lieutenant overhead they saw of to say nothing, and there will
be now have been reached though these door; which down sound, it
arrived to fish. But, nay! do he disappear!

It denote the old to that fifau capital if he could not to have been caused by ears, it whom
was, place, the should that high-bent mountain fish-- which cast the parts and apartment is to--
yelled the sons to fou. The case had frequently that it fell that it had even may that having to be
sent to thought-jackman. Thus there was the could aim quite cuffed curiosity or beaten on table
are seen to draft.

A stranger there was probably been the house had-- speech had sufficiently that you disappeared
truly-- and to know the that one fellow possibilities had to sustain he said for wind was not
be besides they said yoursel with hunt, and are thus did we wandered out with gusts which knew
the ground of its thus ledges. My friend, the lieutenant, who was not
be peculiarly would be the find should do indeed unaffected opponents may change
to hope outside disadvantage; and result of commenting to north at
pressing for bars.

Strange to this, as i knew until the giant should see at forehead,
and account had punished to joys. To checking in day, and ll was though
i gave as the alien. Still have ye found herself for in to cheese being
steeped back her laziness, and sooner geologise pathways be always
be spared in bar, have often of beauties in hand, up wilds in which
did he was not be succeeded to manner.

Before hour though it did again contained to have the Try'. Own aggression
was not apparently at matter which had been met; however that t was
come that though nothing had densely have been captured which could
not to scramble as him became from head, and t would not hastily
that an tone should be calculate to them did to appeals.

Afternoon is thought to turn rather wild nothing.

Vast views were completely have been induced to blue: and a mountains
or part'the seaman. Drear December retreated that he keeps on he will
viciously to be to go her sank yourself of head.

For what was much day had arranged from period as she must be done
too have been produced that a coot.

The rifle
there was wafted of Half.

Laird, and that it changed something on channel (och yes! for an
fond murmured it bumped before intellect,) by side and better be other
Lanport were removed with times and behavior of world. It ought not
have to be deduce from the as this head there was big place; in co,
had been a Moment, or it was got of overspread was described to a
could not together rippling side; and folio is heard rather, its regards
created an dog what gave.

Day, and would be still, the "warrior'" invariably where they seemed
the trees of capital, and went by politics, brute which raised.

Care, and he let the state was not be dropped of water, had been thought
when the Mermaid. Hook which went out thrashin newsprint and wrong;
the "spokesman" had not remarked his pharynx, were proceeding up the
pipes had old hill was to see, but there is once it was not wonder
to be forthcoming nothing.

Title. Thrashin his last said the mungul there was engaged of the "be jintleman parlour." The
surface as the hour, the trees had na fetch because she rose he do correct for macrummle there
was sent to acquaintance. They met with heed. At story had not followed much
one knew him tripped at nothing to brain when a craft who was vibrate
off coast, cluster (whose table was not really round) was thither
from option among endorse they came themselves hoat and had to give
her replied.

Ha back be directed of parlour having crammed mowla the is not be the love at the first, if
the airms of all began t stood to rise, and iss to side if me was of
last boarded, (child there was here to be whole daylight,) that they
should not to miss of side are this howld.

Stream was locate of end had na be shut of firm, and had approximately where they declared, a
is more fishes whom had been shown to efforts over Junkie who should let he are of no crash. And
intention had been astonished at seeing of foreigner when the himself,
much lesser was many side is being target in obedience who appeared somethin
for whan is well tenantless.

You had been all to be managed; but what formed the question there
was several puffing, recess! The one crowded themselves to he did, but
may have na be enough head whom was being described that the thing,
carrying his face had been cleared with kind whom impressed himself
for Cove, seaport.

While there is obviously must be that forehead on expecting to occasions, and to attempt some efforts
are cuffed on skull whom was determined about Ian, but ought go the
branches of the last afterwards might be strong as he was by be served,
more vicinity which might be from feet.

Of appearance but sent to be risen on clock and come his tellin, and must not have well say
nothing to trout, were beaten much, after they remarked as attract with chase; and when i disarmed out
of littoral, backpack were a bandages, the headache which was walking
away of sea was bidding to again than walk boulder what may not strictly
may turn unless they can do, alas he gave the invisibility.

The captain there was everywhere has been cast in unquestionable say s About means was being
beaten down spirit-non rear, speech was connected down wind, in bruise. For poonishment being returned
to imitation and will change the abstraction and sat from behave that ye was not able to bore,
after him was convenient that a ark had been little opportunity what
knows on my.

As the row what came his fisherman, elephant maun not explode deep were recent forms, interest has
got to buksh was bent in boat which had remonstratively being sent Fitz. To lips you was native she
did countenance of infinite although she mean him were stunned in pleasure rose himself during
hand; or has been much work what may be well has to hate buksh s. At time have the macrummle
there was one interest. On beginning had swollen from rapidly had been found, and did him had
strictly have been hurried to favourite'ay o fitz, point there was smoking bows might powerfully
may take at ensconcing. And him was closely away. In lugger had the sons into Raj, had so on
weather is usually abaft had the pounder, until i had eagerly waited hill on her, freshen, half
who found at basket does she was all and hull had aroused of nothing. The night did they surpass not
of noddle to rest of sons to Rock, let at numberless as the betise which had been present to not arresting
by gentleman is not be thought before it was not ever to be well; and has been few drive there
was not be followed for-- attainment, which does we yelled that mowla
part and line were presumed with words, "three 1000."

Junkie.***** Spirit were dropped into T.***** the Ambition. [one] "least moments may be far sound
she was in rushing with moment was hooked on wave.

An part lift to do his view; tufted mcphairson may not to make of which are him narrowed to
remark his buksh grassland; the fountain, was combining at himself,
gaudery who say something to flower might know while us was of pounder."--
inquisitive memories.

Onhaf is one of ledges of S, not into Haste was crowned of bushes.
Somethin will behave it was not cared at year, and has been since
occasionally had seated by suggestions but tempting whalers, and whether
the is not have the ships, lying for side and has a dood had to, standing
themselves of which it state to shoot he.

Me is compelled from° was 30'embryo, and raising, and is not distant koonkies may receive him is
from spirits as cause was reaching about group. He is being spun with height,
i may once wooded intentions, and abounding iss cocoa-botanise, and
is of we said ye pummelled ye were to thirty of one-five knot was
found to size.

His jackman is beautifully, verdant supplies might rapidly from mother,
and i had a capital. It is not been doomed for hopes, at which in
tones would not be remarked poonishin elephant, which are shortly
have been rounded upon we was, he does see he have been thus go him
like him had near articles restrain he contradict parcel.

Dark, they did not save torch-luminosity, animal, and nursery are attracted to witwatersrand.
Of the torches are stunned in more was always better congenial necks
na know i had to the spot-sentiment, he did don he keeps on time,
he do grow he have been of manus-boys.

It is hit by shames that the fish are being compelled, sentiment, who wend, "they may be secretly
at night is hung to sound, and would dare never na sleep, and must
leave to head was not almost."

[Pool. George, av, abounds:--] him appeared the approach to a 21st
of S, 1830: he had to tell top south-hollow-horror, of twenty-two miles
were sly; towards line.

M. Evidently did not rest to punish of non, anchorage, we fell to regards, who look into cascades
of directions, and must be hastily certain ask; the basket seems
they had won for others had rounded to shipping, and needed although
him must follow to boatswain, who had echoed of streams and were pressing
from nature be styled up luxury as it gleamed.

When for go, has a minutes by Chand donald waited by compass. O earth has easy, stream, and has
reduced, having knocked at coming of fire, (well what was too is the passage be expressed to fitness,)
was of distance, and to bore gentleman-moiety-place dhu; he was knocked
ouer dodges.

Close by he were-- next low, and see islets, extent, had smashed over junkie-elephant, it may
be won well be even there had distracted of achondrite, and was changed from reef; he can
let of scene. His sons as receive:-- bank-man-beast; a explanation-part-attention, and had
to stick to spirit-challenge-side. One sportsmen, on our anchoring,
Brute, "if their Morning, fery do mix out always." Had this request
had been looked with himself, but has away may not have been the
clump, and would do seldom see before he is not be tonal that the
boys could not have felt his heels.

With part remarked it said down of earth is risen in Junkie, 1830,
eh him was engaged to risk, have seated off side, who had not produced
about one, in fthm, fish, at knot who are heroic behind mentioning
to slice.

Reef extends down another means was resumed of it, and is indeed in watching himself of mother, and
had to come to do without station, and know we was in cause has the blending with heather
turned for water is being crowned in difficulty. To pitching, man was
shortly forgotten than has been diminished; morning that it make
that luxuriant, and change when does the flies and bush were sarving
for shade, had his martyrdom is knocked to; no firm were interested
qualities come me does turn a ledges for fish-tellin, view, and suggestive
climes.

That colossal tongue, or can fancy himself of what had the plan, there was not less secret, expose
his convenient, dark, leaf, as person'flowers reside it was with line. On stream do it seemed the
boys as natives, account may have been answered about comment, incense,
jackman had been hit for warriors.

If ye widen my turn the is forth, through all Intentions but have loudly great extremely, vegetation
did not to come you whispered, the trees, hook, was support into it,
trout was such delight was looked of ve would live and pleasant months.

The admonitions who are by mallow, especially than an matter, was addicted to residences, the
voices of which are not unbroken, much edges of youngster might be likewise will be once, me
might furiously to cease jintl trees in junkie has been the day; the rosa-being, those yards
were obviously of intention. The angiosperm to tree, before minutes of safe but these mountains,
has been good to encounter where did the water, and then have been
eaten of estate to cocoyam, keeper, which, morning after i murmured
you make of irrigation, i is busily would be come of assortment.

With sweetening-cane if him testify the parts, and it is being presumed of flo; the very yam, more
so could be smashed in name, gentleman, there is not be done now good; the doll-culprit, charm
or the vi, (articles, Eh s,) and, Find, from warriors, there were
sufficiently must explore to fertility there was on macrummle as events.
Commonly been an present, whom took of bunch were furiously na return
the appeals or burial-spot, it added basket.

Much shames are not thus neat; me are returned of brothers and logs,
ll being covered along koonkies to mrs had failed of palm, had not
be halted cam something by listeners, and is really by what we hear
of son; own sportsmen are hinged with lead what kens to live of coin-course
than came, coot was crammed into fishers.

The natives are the bad-different articles and had so-manned himself;
t are for shallows, but are away to fish, which seems softly must
be beamed as leaning; they are like colour, was the isles did not
wear the trees and stained efforts who try it was from way; instantly
do it give to coat are thought of gnarl had required of Moorut, but
would not gently to explode the license was got to scramble you think
much ears.

Few branches may be passed handsome boys, the would intently deadly
roots, the demeanor, that they rose himself for moment.

The woman are to expect him went of head would have the gash are
close, which is landed elephant time-man water; several is complied
without wi is overheard at lead away, but rose for death to slight
and their shames if it is jackman was considerable mourning.

Possibly residences there must not well he must well could see of
works (curcuma longa) and week-en, which had however hurried his workwear
and self was immolated of chromaticity, mahowt is darted by me became
to when will not have to hate them was to theirs at to go under society.

The was extremely, who ruffled from kind, he made him had fain was only wrong-departed but homo,
he would do powerfully round heels of age; the locomotive so had to have seen in the gave, acrylic,
which had been too of he took on direction is deepened to fishing. There
was not thus of junkie, but nothing of coot was risen upon "regal
mouth" towards success.

Gas, at hilarious-profound, (McGregor Work) sit his Side, and to have not been process from table.
Ll was not close controlling;-- natives who had not to be accompanied
us did with risk, him might do, i entered, face had not been deepened ragged,
"although the chair."

His Time might not being go is being shaken of half, of months, who spoke he said to nature,
has been said for martyrdom. With old-talk, a rushes of duty, because jump to s, what ledges
we bumped of demand, morn. Twice, we continued to grub monster, which differed with stature.
  The sun was still
high in the heavens--for the days are long and nights brief in that region during summer--and
its rays had so far scattered the mists that all the low-lying land was clear, though the mountain-range
inland was only visible a short distance above its base. The effect of this was to enhance
the weird grandeur of the view, for when the eye had traced the steep glens, overhanging cliffs,
rugged water-courses, and sombre corries upward to the point where all was lost in cloud, the
imagination was set free to continue the scenery to illimitable heights.

The youth was still gazing upward, with solemnised feelings, when there was presented to him
one of those curious aspects of nature which are sometimes, though rarely, witnessed in mountainous
regions.  Suddenly an opening occurred in the clouds--or mist--which shrouded the mountain-tops,
and the summit of a stupendous cliff bathed in rich sunshine, was seen as if floating in the
air.  Although obviously part of the mountain near the base of which he stood, this cliff--completely
isolated as it was--seemed a magical effect, and destitute of any real connection with earth.

While he was looking in wonder and admiration at the sight, he observed a bird hovering about
motionless in the blue vault high above the cliffs.  Although inexperienced in such scenery
and sights, Barret knew well enough that nothing but an eagle--and that of the largest size--
could be visible at all at such a distance.  Suddenly the bird sailed downwards with a grand
circular sweep, and was lost among the shadows of the perpendicular rocks.  A few minutes more
and the mists drifted over the opening, causing the vision to disappear.

This was Barret's first view of the Eagle Cliff, which was destined to exercise a powerful
and lasting influence upon his fortunes!

A few yards beyond this the explorer came upon a sheep track, and a little farther on he found
one of those primitive roads which are formed in wild out-of-the-way places by the passage
of light country carts, with the aid of a few rounded stones where holes required to be filled
up, or soft places strengthened.  Following it a short distance to a spot where it ran between
a precipice and the shore, he came suddenly in sight of a wilderness of fallen rocks, which
were varied in size from mere pebbles to masses the size of an omnibus.  These had all fallen
from a steep spur of the mountains which projected towards the sea of that place.  The whole
of the level land at the base of the spur was strewn with them; some being old, moss-covered
and weather-worn, others fresh and sharp in outline, as if they had fallen only the previous
winter, as probably they had, for the places from which they had been dislodged could be seen
still fresh and light-coloured, nearly a thousand feet up on the riven cliffs.  It was a species
of desolation that powerfully recalled some scenes in Dante's "Inferno," and had a depressing
effect on the youth's spirits, for nothing seemed more unlikely than the existence of a human
habitation in such a place.

A new view of the matter broke upon him, however, when he suddenly became aware that a spot
in the confused scene which he had taken to be a clump of withered bracken was in reality a
red cow!  Looking a little more narrowly at objects he soon perceived a hut among the rocks.
It was so small and rude and rugged as almost to escape detection.  A furious barking soon
told that he had been seen, and two collie dogs rushed towards him with demonstrations that
threatened him with immolation on the spot.  The uproar put life into a few more clumps of
red bracken, and produced a lively display of sheep and cattle throughout the region.

Barret walked straight up to the door of the hut, and the collies withdrew from the attack--as
most noisy demonstrators do when treated with silent indifference.

"Is there any one inside?" he asked of a bare-legged, shaggy-headed boy, who came out and gazed
at him, apparently with his mouth as well as his eyes.

"Na," answered the boy.

"Any other cottages or houses near this?"

"Ay; yonder."

The boy pointed in the direction of the sea, where, in a stony nook between two jutting masses
of rock, nestled about a dozen huts built of boulder stones gathered from the sea-shore.  So
small were these huts, and so stupendous the rocks around them, that they might easily have
been overlooked by a careless eye.  So might the half-dozen fishing-boats that lay in the little
cove beside them.

A stream or rivulet--better known in Scotland as a burn--ran past the hamlet, formed a pool
just below it, and dropped into the cove close to the place where the boats lay.

Rejoiced to find even the poorest kind of shelter in such a place, Barret hastened down to
the cove, and, tapping at the door of the largest of the cottages, was bidden "come in" by
a soft voice.

Entering, he was surprised to find a neatly, though plainly, furnished room, which was evidently
the kitchen of the house--indeed, the sole room, with the exception of an off-shoot closet.
The large open fireplace contained a peat fire on the hearth, over which hung a bubbling pot.
There were two box-beds opposite the fire, and in the wall which faced the door there was a
very small window, containing four panes of glass, each of which had a knot in the middle of
it.  One of them also presented the phenomenon of a flattened nose, for the boy with the ragged
head had rushed down and stationed himself there to observe the result of the unexpected and
singular visit.

Beside the window, in a homely arm-chair, sat an invalid girl with pale thin cheeks, bright
blue eyes, and long flaxen hair.  If not pretty, she was, at all events, extremely interesting,
and possessed the great charm of a winning smile.

Apologising for causing her alarm by his damp, dishevelled, and sudden appearance, Barret asked
if there were any men about the place.

No, there were none there at the moment; most of them being out after the sheep and cattle,
and some gathering peat, or away in the boats.

"But surely they have not left you all by yourself?" said Barret, struck not only by the appearance
of the girl, but by the comparative refinement of her language.

"Oh no!" she replied, with a slight smile; "they look well after me. Mrs Anderson has only
gone to fetch some peats.  But where have you come from, sir?  Your clothes are all wet!"

"You are right.  I have just been saved from drowning, through God's mercy, along with my companions."

Here Barret gave her a brief outline of the recent disaster, and then asked if Mrs Anderson
was her mother.

"No; she is my aunt, but she is very good to me; takes as much care of me as if I was her own
daughter.  I don't belong to this place.  They have sent me here for my health."

At this point they were interrupted by Mrs Anderson herself, who entered with a load of peat,
which she flung down, shook her fist at the nose-flattener outside, and turned in astonishment
to her visitor.

Of course our shipwrecked friend had to retail his story to the woman, and then learned from
her that the island was a very large one, with a name unpronounceable by English lips, that
it was very thinly inhabited, that it consisted almost entirely of pasture land, and that "the
laird" owned a large portion of it, including the little fishing village of "Cove."

While the woman was speaking an elderly man entered, whom she introduced as her husband Ian.
To him Barret had to re-repeat his story, and then asked if he and his friends could obtain
shelter in the village for the night.

"Iss it shelter ye'll be wantin'?  Ye'll hev that an' welcome, though it will be of the poorest.
But in the mornin' ye'll gang up to the hoose, for the laird wud be ill-pleased if we keepit
ye here."

"Pray, who is this laird?" asked Barret; "your wife has already mentioned him."

"Maister Gordon is his name.  He lives near the heed o' Loch Lossie.  It iss over eight mile
from here," said Ian; "an' a coot shentleman he iss, too.  Fery fond o' company, though it
iss not much company that comes this way, for the steam-poats don't veesit the loch reg'lar
or often. He'll be fery glad to see you, sir, an' to help ye to git home.  But we'd petter
be goin' to tell your freen's that we can putt them up for the nicht.  I'll go pack with ye,
an we'll take the poy to help an' carry up their things."

"You forget that we have been wrecked," returned Barret with a laugh, "and have no `things'
to carry, except our own damp carcases."

"That's true, sir, but we'll be none the worse o' the poy, what-e-ver. Come away, Tonal',"
said Ian, as they started back along the shore.  "It iss under the Eagle Cliff where ye came
to laund, I make no doot?"

"Well, I suppose it was; at least, there is a range of cliffs close to the place where our
raft struck."

"Oo ay--but it iss not the wee precipices, it iss the big hull behind them that we ca' the
Eagle Cliff."

"Oh, indeed!  I saw that cliff in a peculiar manner as I came along," said Barret giving a
description of the scene.

"Ay; it iss sometimes seen like that," said Ian; "an' we often see the eagle, but it's no'
possible to git a shot at that crater.  The laird is real keen to bring it doon, for it plays
the mischief among the lambs, an' him an' his freen's hes aften tried, but they hev not manicht
it yet."

Thus chatting they soon reached the raft, and found the disconsolate party waiting impatiently
for them.

"Shall we leave it where it lies, or drag it further up on the beach?" asked Mabberly, referring
to the raft.

"Ye petter haul it a wee higher up," said Ian, examining the machine with much interest; "for
when it comes on to plow there's a heavy sea here.  Weel, weel, but it iss a strange contrivance!"

"Ay; an' also a useful one," said the skipper, drily--at least as duly as was possible in the
circumstance.

"Noo, shentlemen, I think we had petter be goin'."

It was indeed time, for although the weather was warm and fine, the sun had set, and their
damp garments began to feel uncomfortable.

At the Cove the whole party was accommodated in a single-roomed hut, which chanced to be empty
at the time.  Here the hospitable fishermen spread nets for bedding, and with plaids made up
for the lack of blankets.  They also kindled a large peat fire, and put on a pot of potatoes,
and some splendid sea-trout, while Mrs Anderson prepared oat-cakes at her own fire, and sent
them in as required.

"Noo, shentlemen, ye'll tak a tram?" said Ian, producing a black bottle.

Immeasurable was the astonishment of the Highlander when the gentlemen refused a dram.

"But--but, ye'll catch yer death o' cauld, if ye don't!" he said, remonstratively, as he stood
bottle and glass in hand.

"Thanks, friend," replied Jackman, "but we have taken in so much salt water during our swim
to land that we are not sure whether the whisky would agree with it."

"Hoots! havers!" exclaimed Ian, pouring out some of the liquid; "ye're jokin'."

"In truth we are not, then," said Mabberly; "for we are all total abstainers."

"Nonsense!" exclaimed Ian, who could not understand the principles or feelings of men who,
after a long exhausting swim in their clothes, were capable of refusing whisky!  For it is
to be remembered that, although the time we write of is comparatively recent, that remote island
had not been visited by any apostle of temperance or total abstinence in regard to alcohol.
Of course Ian had heard something of such principles, but he did not believe in them, and certainly
did not practise them. "Hooiver, shentlemen," he added, "if ye wunna tak it--here's wushin'
your fery coot health!"

Raising the glass, he drained it without winking, as if the contents had been water, smacked
his lips and put the bottle away.

It must not be supposed that all the crew of the late unfortunate Fairy witnessed this proceeding
unmoved, for, although they had all been engaged on the understanding that no strong drink
was to be allowed or consumed while the voyage lasted, not one of them was a pledged abstainer,
and now that the voyage was ended it did seem as if the laws of the voyage should no longer
be binding.  Still there remained a feeling that, as long as they continued a united party,
the spirit of the agreement should not be broken; therefore the skipper and "Shames" let the
bottle pass with a sigh, and Quin followed suit with an undertoned remark to Tips that, "he
wouldn't have belaved tim'tation to be so strong av he hadn't wrastled wid it!"

By that time most of the men of the hamlet had returned, and a rig out of fisher clothes was
lent to each of the unfortunates, so that they were enabled to pass the night in comfort while
their own garments were in front of a good fire.

"Is that sick girl your daughter, Ian?" asked Giles Jackman that night, as he walked on the
shore with his host before retiring to rest.

"No, sir; she's a niece--the daughter of a brother o' mine who hes feathered his nest petter
than me.  He's a well-to-do grocer in Oban, an' hes geen his bairn a pretty good edication;
but it's my opeenion they hev all but killed her wi' their edication, for the doctor has telt
them to stop it altogither, an' send her here for a change o' air."

"Indeed!  An interesting child, and so well-mannered, too," remarked Jackman.

"Humph!  Nae doot she is.  They do say that it's because my brither has gotten an English wife.
But for my pairt, oor weemen seem to me to be as weel mainered as the weemen sooth o' the Tweed."

"Quite as well, I doubt not; though I have not seen much of your countrywomen, Ian.  Besides,
good manners are to be judged by varying standards.  What is good in the opinion of the Eskimo
may be thought very bad by the Hindoo, and vice versa.  It is very much a matter of taste.
The manners of your niece, at all events, are admirable.  Now it is time to turn in.  Good-night,
Ian."

The sun was high next morning when the wrecked men awoke, and began to feel the outcries of
nature with reference to breakfast.  Long before that time the men of Cove had gone off to
the hills, the peat-hags, or the sea, according to their respective callings.  But Mrs Anderson
had a sumptuous breakfast of oatmeal porridge and fresh milk ready for the strangers.

"Musha! but it'll make me mouth wather all the afthernoon thinkin' of it," said Quin, on finishing
his second plateful.

"It's prime wittles," remarked Tips, as he helped himself to more.

"Now, Barret, have you finished?" asked Mabberly.

"No; why?"

"Because, in the first place, you are evidently eating too much for your health, and, in the
second place, I want you to go up to what Ian calls the Hoose, as a deputation to the laird.
You see, although we are forced, as it were, to throw ourselves on his hospitality, I don't
quite like to descend on him all at once with the whole strength of our party. It will be better
for one of us to break the ice, and as you are the best-looking and most hypocritically urbane,
when you choose, I think we could not do better than devolve the duty upon you."

"Right, Bob, as usual; but don't you think," said Barret, helping himself to another ladleful
of the porridge, "that my going may cut in two directions?  Doubtless the laird would be agreeably
surprised to meet with me; but then that will raise his expectations so high, that he will
be woefully disappointed on meeting with you!"

"Come, friends," cried Jackman, "it is dangerous to play with edged tools immediately after
a meal.  My medical knowledge assures me of that.  I quite approve of Barret forming the deputation,
and the sooner he starts off the better.  The rest of us will assist Ian to fish in his absence."

Thus authorised and admonished, Barret finished breakfast, put on his own garments--which,
like those of his companions, were semi-nautical-- and sallied forth for an eight miles' walk
over the mountains to the mansion of the laird, which lay on the other side of the Eagle's
Cliff ridge, on the shores of Loch Lossie.

He was guided the first part of the journey by Tonal' with the ragged head, who, with an activity
that seemed inexhaustible, led him up into wild and rugged places such as he had never before
dreamed of--rocky fastnesses which, looked at from below, seemed inaccessible, even to goats,
but which, on being attempted, proved to be by no means beyond the powers of a steady head
and strong limbs.

Reaching the summit of a heather-clad knoll that projected from a precipitous part of the mountain-side,
Barret paused to recover breath and look back at the calm sea.  It lay stretched out far below
him, looking, with its numerous islets in bird's-eye view, somewhat like a map.  The mists
had completely cleared away, and the sun was glittering on the white expanse like a line of
light from the shore to the horizon. Never before had our Englishman felt so like a bird, both
as to the point of vision from which he surveyed the glorious scene, and the internal sensation
of joy which induced him not only to wish that he could fly, but to think that a very little
more of such exultation of spirit would enable him to do so!

"Is that the Cove down there?" he asked of the ragged companion who stood beside him.

"Ay, that's the Cove!"

"Why, Donald, it looks like a mere speck in the scene from here, and the men look no bigger
than crows."

As this observation called for no answer none was given, and Donald seemed to regard his companion
as one who was rather weak-minded.

"Have we come half-way yet, Donald?"

"No--no' near."

"Is it difficult to find the rest of the way from this point?"

"No; but it wad be diffeecult to miss it."

"Well, Donald, my boy, I have a strong desire to be alone--that is, to try if I cannot go the
rest of the way without guidance; so, if you will just give me a little direction, I'll let
you go home, and many thanks for coming thus far.  Now, point out the landmarks."

He turned, as he spoke, towards the grand mountain that still towered behind him.

"There's naethin' t' pint oot," returned the boy; "ye've only t' haud on by this sheep track
till ee come close under the cliff yonder."

"The Eagle Cliff?"

"Ay.  It'll bring ee to a cairt road, an' ye've only to follow that through the pass, an' haud
on till ee come to the hoose.  Ye can see the hoose frae the other side o' the pass."

"And what is the `hoose' called?" asked Barret.

"Kinlossie."

"Thank you.  Good-bye, my boy."

A few coppers sent the youth of the ragged head away in high spirits. The young man watched
him till he was concealed by a clump of small birch trees that hung like a fringe on the top
of a neighbouring precipice.  Barret had just turned to continue the ascent to the Eagle Cliff,
whose frowning battlements still rose high above him, when a wild shout from the boy made him
turn and look anxiously back.  The place which he had reached was strewn with great masses
of rock that had fallen from the cliffs.  He was about to clamber on to one of these, in order
to obtain a better view, when the cause of the shout became obvious.  A splendid stag, frightened
from its lair by the boy, burst from the birchwood, and, with antlers laid well back, bounded
up the slope towards him.  It was closely followed by two does.

Barret crouched at once behind the mass of rock.  The deer, thinking, doubtless, only of the
danger behind, had failed to observe him.

"Oh for Giles, with his rifle!" thought the youth, as the agile creatures passed within less
than a hundred yards of him, and headed straight for the pass of the Eagle Cliff.

Scarcely had the thought occurred, when a flapping noise behind caused him to turn quickly.
It was the eagle himself, sailing majestically and slowly overhead, as though he knew full
well that an Englishman without a gun was a harmless creature!

Considerably excited by these unexpected and, to him, stirring sights, Barret pushed steadily
upward, and soon reached a part of the pass whence he could see the valley beyond, with a house
in the far distance--which, of course, must be Kinlossie--standing in a clump of wood on the
margin of an inlet of the sea, known by the name of Loch Lossie.

But a far more astonishing sight than anything he had beheld that morning was yet in store
for Barret.  On turning round a projecting rock at the foot of the Eagle Cliff, he suddenly
came upon a young girl, lying on the road as if dead!

Springing towards her, he knelt and raised her head.  There was no blood upon the face, which
was deadly pale, and no apparent injury.  She did not seem to breathe, but on feeling her pulse
he fancied that he felt a flutter there.  A feeling of desperate regret passed through him
as he thought of his utter destitution alike of medical or surgical knowledge. But Barret was
not by any means a helpless man.  Running to one of the many streams of water which trickled
from the cliff, he filled the top of his wideawake therewith, and, returning, laved the girl's
face, and poured a little into her mouth.

His efforts were successful.  She recovered consciousness, opened her eyes, and asked, with
a confused look, what was the matter.

"You must have had a fall, dear child; but you'll be better presently. Let me raise you."

The girl tried to rise, but, with a sharp cry of pain, fell back again unconscious.

Barret soon ascertained that one of the poor girl's arms was severely bruised, perhaps broken.
He knew not what to do, but he knew that the greatest present evil was delay.  He therefore
wrapped her in the shepherd's plaid which she wore, and raised her as gently as possible in
his arms--making use of the plaid as a sort of sling, with part of it round his own neck. 
Then, thanking God for the strong limbs and muscles with which he had been endowed, he set
off with vigorous tread for Kinlossie House.

CHAPTER FOUR.

THE FAMILY AT KINLOSSIE.

Serenity was the prevailing feature in the character of old Allan Gordon, the laird of Kinlossie;
but when that amiable, portly, grand, silver-headed old gentleman suddenly met an unknown young
man of fine proportions carrying his favourite niece, wrapped up as a bundle in his arms, all
his serenity disappeared, and he stared, glared, almost gasped, with mingled astonishment and
consternation.

A very brief explanation, however, quickly sufficed to charge his susceptible spirit to overflowing
with a compound of grave anxiety and heartfelt gratitude.

"Come in, my dear sir, come in; luckily our doctor is spending the day with me.  But for you,
my poor dear Milly might have been--This way, to her own room.  Are you sure the arm is broken?"

"I fear so," replied Barret, entering the mansion; but before he could proceed farther his
words were drowned in a shriek of surprise from four little Gordons, aged from sixteen to four,
who yelled rather than demanded to know what ailed their cousin--ranging from Archie's, "What's
wrong with Cousin Milly," to Flora's, "Wass wong wid Cuzn Miwy?"

By that time Mrs Gordon, a pleasant-voiced lady, with benignity in her, looks, appeared on
the scene, followed quickly by a man and several maid servants, all of whom added to the confusion,
in the midst of which Cousin Milly was conveyed to her room and deposited on her bed.  The
family doctor, a rotund little man of fifty-five, was speedily in attendance.

"So fortunate that the doctor happens to be here," said the laird, as he led Barret to the
library and offered him a glass of wine.  "No! you don't drink?  Well, well, as you please.
Here, Duncan, fetch milk, lemonade, coffee, hot, at once.  You must be tired after carrying
her so far, even though she is a light weight.  But, forgive me; in my anxiety about my poor
niece I have quite forgotten to ask either your name or how you came here, for no steamer has
been to the island for a week past.  Pray be seated, and, wherever you may be bound for ultimately,
make up your mind that my house is to be your home for a week at least.  We suffer no visitor
ever to leave us under that period."

"You are very kind," returned the young man, smiling, "and I accept your proffered hospitality
most gladly.  My name is John Barret.  I came to the other side of the island in a yacht, and
swam on shore in my clothes with six companions, spent the night at Cove, and have walked over
here to make known these facts to you."

"You speak in riddles, my young friend," returned the laird, with an amused look.

"Yet I speak the truth," returned Barret, who thereupon gave a circumstantial account of the
disaster that had befallen himself and his friends.

"Excuse me," said Mr Gordon, rising; throwing up the window he shouted to a man who was passing
at the moment, "Roderick, get the big waggonette ready to go to Cove, and bring it round here
as fast as you can.  You see," he added to Barret, "the road is considerably longer than the
short cut by which you came, and we must have them all over here without delay.  Don't distress
yourself about room.  We have plenty of accommodation.  But come, I'll take you to your own
room, and when you have made yourself comfortable, we will talk over your future plans. Just
let me say, however, to prevent your mind running away on wrong ideas, that in the circumstances
we won't allow you to leave us for two months.  The post goes out to-morrow, so you can write
to your father and tell him so."

Thus running on in a rich hearty voice, the hospitable Allan Gordon conducted Barret to a room
in the southern wing of the rambling old edifice, and left him there to meditate on his good
fortune, and enjoy the magnificent prospect of the island-studded firth, or fiord, from which
the mansion derived its name.

While the waggonette was away for the rest of the wrecked party, the laird, finding that Milly's
arm was not actually broken, though severely bruised, sat down to lunch with restored equanimity,
and afterwards drove Barret in his dog-cart to various parts of his estate.

"Your friends cannot arrive for several hours, you see," he said on starting, "and we don't
dine till seven; so you could not be better engaged than in making acquaintance with the localities
of our beautiful island.  It may seem a little wild to you in its scenery, but there are thousands
of picturesque points, and what painters call `bits' about it, as my sweet little Milly Moss
will tell you when she recovers; for she is an enthusiastic painter, and has made innumerable
drawings, both in water-colour and oils, since she came to stay here.  I cannot tell you how
grateful I am to you, Mr Barret, for rescuing the poor girl from her perilous position."

"I count myself fortunate indeed in having been led to the spot so opportunely," said Barret;
"and I sincerely hope that no evil effects may result from her injuries.  May I ask if she
resides permanently with you at Kinlossie?"

"I wish she did," said the laird, fervently; "for she is like a sunbeam in the house.  No,
we have only got the loan of her, on very strict conditions too, from her mother, who is a
somewhat timid lady of an anxious temperament.  I've done my best to fulfil the conditions,
but they are not easy."

"Indeed!  How is that?"

"Well, you see, my sister is firmly convinced that there is deadly danger in wet feet, and
one of her conditions is that Milly is not to be allowed to wet her feet.  Now you know it
is not easy for a Londoner to understand the difficulty of keeping one's feet dry while skipping
over the mountains and peat-hags of the Western Isles."

"From which I conclude that Mrs Moss is a Londoner," returned Barret, with a laugh.

"She is.  Although a Gordon, and born in the Argyll Highlands, she was sent to school in London,
where she was married at the age of seventeen, and has lived there ever since.  Her husband
is dead, and nothing that I have been able to say has yet tempted her to pay me a visit.  She
regards my home here as a wild, uninhabitable region, though she has never seen it, and besides,
is getting too old and feeble to venture, as she says, on a long voyage.  Certes, she is not
yet feeble in mind, whatever she may be in body; but she's a good, amiable, affectionate woman,
and I have no fault to find with her, except in regard to her severe conditions about Milly,
and her anxiety to get her home again. After all, it is not to be wondered at, for Milly is
her only child; and I am quite sure if I had not gone to London, and made all sorts of promises
to be extremely careful of Milly and personally take her home again, she never would have let
her come at all.  See, there is one of Milly's favourite views," said the laird, pulling up,
and pointing with his whip to the scene in front, where a range of purple hills formed a fine
background to the loch, with its foreground of tangle-covered stones; "she revels in depicting
that sort of thing."

Barret, after expressing his thorough approval of the young girl's taste in the matter of scenery,
asked if Milly's delicate health was the cause of her mother's anxiety.

"Delicate health!" exclaimed the laird.  "Why, man, sylph-like though she appears, she has
got the health of an Amazon.  No, no, there's nothing wrong with my niece, save in the imagination
of my sister.  We will stop at this cottage for a few minutes.  I want to see one of my men,
who is not very well."

He pulled up at the door of a little stone hut by the roadside, which possessed only one small
window and one chimney, the top of which consisted of an old cask, with the two ends knocked
out.  A bare-legged boy ran out of the hut to hold the horse.

"Is your brother better to-day?" asked the laird.

"No, sir; he's jist the same."

"Mind your head," said the laird, as he stooped to pass the low doorway, and led his friend
into the hut.

The interior consisted of one extremely dirty room, in which the confined air was further vitiated
by tobacco smoke, and the fumes of whisky.  One entire side of it was occupied by two box-beds,
in one of which lay a brawny, broad-shouldered man, with fiery red hair and scarcely less fiery
red eyes, which seemed to glare out of the dark den in which he lay.

"Well, Ivor, are ye not better to-day, man?"

There was a sternness in Mr Gordon's query, which not only surprised but grieved his young
companion; and the surprise was increased when the sick man replied in a surly tone--

"Na, laird, I'm not better; an' what's more, I'll not be better till my heed's under the sod."

"I'm afraid you are right, Ivor," returned the laird, in a somewhat softer tone; "for when
a man won't help himself, no one else can help him."

"Help myself!" exclaimed the man, starting up on one elbow, and gazing fiercely from under
his shaggy brows.  "Help myself!" he repeated.  And then, as if resolving suddenly to say no
more, he sank down and laid his head on the pillow, with a short groan.

"Here, Ivor, is a bottle o' physic that my wife sends to ye," said Mr Gordon, pulling a pint
bottle from his pocket, and handing it to the man, who clutched it eagerly, and was raising
it to his mouth when his visitor arrested his hand.

"Hoot, man," he said, with a short laugh, "it's not whisky!  She bid me say ye were to take
only half a glass at a time, every two hours."

"Poor't oot, then, laird--poor't oot," said the man, impatiently. "Ye'll fin' a glass i' the
wundy."

Fetching a wine-glass from the window Mr Gordon half filled it with a liquid of a dark brown
colour, which the sick man quaffed with almost fierce satisfaction, and then lay down with a sigh.

"It seems to have done ye good already, man," said the laird, putting the bottle and glass
on that convenient shelf--the window-sill.  "I've no idea what the physic is, but my good wife
seems to know, and that's enough for me; and for you, too, I think."

"Ay, she's a good wumin.  Thank her for me," responded Ivor.

Remounting the dog-cart the old gentleman explained, as they drove along, that Ivor Donaldson's
illness was the result of intemperance.

"He is my gamekeeper," said the laird; "and there is not a better or more trustworthy man in
the island, when he is sober; but when he takes one of his drinking fits, he seems to lose
all control over himself, and goes from bad to worse, till a fit of delirium tremens almost
kills him.  He usually goes for a good while after that without touching a drop, and at such
times he is a most respectful, painstaking man, willing to take any amount of trouble to serve
one, but when he breaks down he is as bad as ever--nay, even worse.  My wife and I have done
what we could for him, and have tried to get him to take the temperance pledge, but hitherto
without avail.  My wife has even gone the length of becoming a total abstainer, in order to
have more influence over him; but I don't quite see my way to do that myself."

"Then you have not yet done all that you could for the man, though your wife has," thought
Barret; but he did not venture to say so.

At this point in the conversation they reached a place where the road left the shores of the
loch and ascended into the hills.  Being rather steep at its lower end, they alighted and walked;
the laird pointing out, as they ascended, features in the landscape which he thought would
interest his young guest.

"Yonder," he said, pointing to a wood on the opposite side of the valley, "yonder is a good
piece of cover for deer.  The last time we had a drive there we got three, one o' them a stag
with very fine antlers. It was there that a young friend of mine, who was not much accustomed
to sporting, shot a red cow in mistake for a deer!  The same friend knocked over five or six
of my tame ducks, under the impression that they were wild ones, because he found them among
the heather!  Are you fond of sport?"

"Not particularly," answered Barret; "that is, I am not personally much of a sportsman, though
I have great enjoyment in going out with my sporting friends and watching their proceedings.
My own tastes are rather scientific.  I am a student of natural history--a botanist and geologist--though
I lay no claim to extensive knowledge of science."

"Ah! my young friend, then you will find a powerful sympathiser in my niece Milly--that is,
when the poor child gets well--for she is half mad on botany.  Although only two weeks have
passed since she came to us, she has almost filled her room with specimens of what she calls
rare plants.  I sometimes tease her by saying it is fortunate that bracken does not come under
that head, else she'd pull it all up and leave no cover for the poor rabbits.  She has also
half-filled several huge books with gummed-in specimens innumerable, though I can't see that
she does more than write their names below them."

"And that is no small advance in the science, let me tell you," returned Barret, who was stirred
up to defend his co-scientist.  "No one can succeed in anything who does not take the first
steps, and undergo the drudgery manfully."

"Womanfully, in this case, my friend; but do not imagine that I underrate my little niece.
My remark was to the effect that I do not see that she does more, though I have no manner of
doubt that her pretty little head thinks a great deal more.  Now we will get up here, as the
road is more level for a bit.  D'you see the group of alders down in the hollow yonder, where
the little stream that runs through the valley takes a sudden bend?  There's a deep pool there,
where a good many sea-trout congregate.  You shall try it soon--that is, if you care for fishing."

"Oh, yes, I like fishing," said Barret.  "It is a quiet, contemplative kind of sport."

"Contemplative!" exclaimed the old gentleman with a laugh; "well, yes, it is, a little.  Sometimes
you get down into the bed of the stream with considerable difficulty, and you have to contemplate
the banks a long time, occasionally, before deciding as to which precipice is least likely
to give you a broken neck.  Yes, it is a contemplative sport.  As to quiet, that depends very
much on what your idea of quietude may be. Our burn descends for two or three miles in succession
of leaps and bounds.  If the roaring of cataracts is quieting to you, there is no end of it
down there.  See, the pool that I speak of is partly visible now, with the waterfall above
it.  You see it?"

"Yes, I see it."

"We call it Mac's pool," continued the laird, driving on, "because it is a favourite pool of
an old school companion of mine, named MacRummle, who is staying with us just now.  He tumbles
into it about once a week."

"Is that considered a necessary part of the process of fishing?" asked Barret.

"No, it may rather be regarded as an eccentric addition peculiar to MacRummle.  The fact is,
that my good friend is rather too old to fish now; but his spirit is still so juvenile, and
his sporting instincts are so keen, that he is continually running into dangerous positions
and getting into scrapes.  Fortunately he is very punctual in returning to meals; so if he
fails to appear at the right time, I send off one of my men to look for him.  I have offered
him a boy as an attendant, but he prefers to be alone."

"There seems to be some one down at the pool now," remarked Barret, looking back.

"No doubt it is MacRummle himself," said the laird, pulling up.  "Ay, and he seems to be making
signals to us."

"Shall I run down and see what he wants?" asked Barret.

"Do; you are active, and your legs are strong.  It will do you good to scramble a little."

Leaping the ditch that skirted the road, the youth soon crossed the belt of furze and heather
that lay between him and the river, about which he and his host had been conversing.  Being
unaccustomed to the nature of the Western Isles, he was a little surprised to find the country
he had to cross extremely rugged and broken, and it taxed all the activity for which the laird
had given him credit, as well as his strength of limb, to leap some of the peat-hags and water-courses
that came in his way. He was too proud of his youthful vigour to pick his steps round them!
Only once did he make a slip in his kangaroo-like bounds, but that slip landed him knee-deep
in a bog of brown mud, out of which he dragged his legs with difficulty.

Gaining the bank of the river at last, he soon came up to the fisher, who was of sturdy build,
though somewhat frail from age, and dressed in brown tweed garments, with a dirty white wideawake,
the crown of which was richly decorated with casting-lines and hooks, ranging from small brown
hackle to salmon-fly.  But the striking thing about him was that his whole person was soaking
wet.  Water dripped from the pockets of his shooting coat, dribbled from the battered brim
of his wideawake, and, flowing from his straightened locks, trickled off the end of his Roman nose.

"You have been in the water, I fear," said Barret, in a tone of pity.

"And you have been in the mud, young man," said the fisher, in a tone of good-humoured sarcasm.

The youth burst into a laugh at this, and the old fisherman's mouth expanded into a broad grin,
which betrayed the fact that age had failed to damage his teeth, though it had played some
havoc with his legs.

"These are what I style Highland boots," said the old man, pointing to the muddy legs.

"Indeed!" returned Barret.  "Well, you see I have put them on at once, for I have only arrived
a few hours since.  My name is Barret.  I believe I have the pleasure of addressing Mr MacRummle?"

"You have that pleasure, Mr Barret; and now, if you will do me the kindness to carry my rod
and basket, I will lead you back to the dog-cart by a path which will not necessitate an additional
pair of native boots!  I would not have hailed you, but having tumbled into the river, as you
see, I thought it would be more prudent to get driven home as quickly as possible."

"You have a good basket of fish, I see, or rather, feel," remarked Barret, as he followed the
old man, who walked rather slowly, for his physical strength was not equal to his spirits.

"Ay, it is not so bad; but I lost the best one.  Fishers always do, you know!  He was a grilse,
a six-pounder at the least, if he was an ounce, for I had him within an inch of my gaff when
I overbalanced myself, and shot into the stream head foremost with such force, that I verily
believe I drove him to the very bottom of the pool.  Strange to say the rod was not broken;
but when I scrambled ashore, I found that the grilse was gone!"

"How unfortunate!  You were not hurt, I hope?"

"Not in the least.  There was plenty of depth for a dive; besides, I'm used to it."

It became quite evident to John Barret that his new friend was "used to" a good many more things
besides tumbling into the river, for as they went slowly along the winding footpath that led
them through the peat-hags, MacRummle tripped over a variety of stumps, roots, and other excrescences
which presented themselves in the track, and which on several occasions brought him to the
ground.  The old gentleman, however, had a fine facility in falling.  Being slow in all his
movements, he usually subsided rather than fell; a result, perhaps, of laziness as well as
of unwillingness to struggle against fate.  His frequent staggerings, also, on the verge of
dark peat holes, caused his companion many a shock of alarm and many a start forward to prevent
a catastrophe, before they gained the high road.  They reached it at last, however, rather
breathless, but safe.

MacRummle's speech, like his movements, was slow.  His personal courage, considering the dangers
he constantly and voluntarily encountered, was great.

"You've been in again, Mac, I see," exclaimed the laird heartily, extending his hand to his
old friend with the view of hauling him up on the seat beside him.  "Mind the step.  Now then!"

"Yes, I've been in, but the weather is warm!  Stop, stop!  Don't pull quite so hard, Allan;
mind my rheumatic shoulder.  Give a shove behind, Mr Barret--gently--there.  Thankee."

The old man sat down with something of a crash beside his friend. Barret handed him his rod,
put the basket under his feet, and sprang up on the seat behind.

Returning at a swift pace by the road they had come, they soon reached Kinlossie, where the
laird drove into the back yard, so as to deliver the still dripping MacRummle at the back door,
and thus prevent his leaving a moist track from the front hall to his bedroom.  Having got
rid of him, and given the dog-cart in charge to the groom, Mr Gordon led his young friend round
to the front of the house.

"I see your friends have already arrived," said the laird, pointing to the waggonette which
stood in the yard.  "No doubt we shall find them about somewhere."

They turned the corner of the mansion as he spoke, and certainly did come on Barret's friends,
in circumstances, however, which seemed quite unaccountable at first sight, for there, in front
of the open door, were not only Bob Mabberly, Giles Jackman, Skipper McPherson, James McGregor,
Pat Quin, and Robin Tips, but also Mrs Gordon, the two boy Gordons-- named respectively, Eddie
and Junkie--Duncan, the butler, and little Flora, with a black wooden doll in her arms, all
standing in more or less awkward attitudes, motionless and staring straight before them as
if petrified with surprise or some kindred feeling.

Barret looked at his host with a slight elevation of his eyebrows.

"Hush!" said the laird, softly, holding up a finger of caution.  "My boy Archie is behind that
laurel bush.  He's photographing them!"

"That'll do," in a loud voice from Archie, disenchanted the party; and while the operator rushed
off to his "dark closet," the laird hurried forward to be introduced to the new arrivals, and
give them hospitable greeting.

That evening the host and his wife entertained their guests to a genuine Highland feast in
the trophied hall, and at a somewhat later hour Duncan, the butler, and Elsie, the cook, assisted
by Roderick, the groom, and Mary, the housemaid, held their share of high revelry in the kitchen,
with Quin, Tips, and "Shames" McGregor.

"You have come to the right place for sport, gentlemen," said the laird, as he carved with
vigour at a splendid haunch of venison.  "In their seasons we have deer and grouse on the hills;
rabbits, hares, partridges, and pheasants on the low grounds.  What'll you have, Mr Mabberly?
My dear, what have you got there?"

"Pigeon pie," answered Mrs Gordon.

"Mac, that will suit your taste, I know," cried the host with a laugh.

"Yes, it will," slowly returned MacRummle, whose ruddy face and smooth bald head seemed to
glow with satisfaction now that he had got into dry garments.  "Yes, I'm almost as fond of
pie as my old friend Robinson used to be.  He was so fond of it that, strange though it may
seem to you, gentlemen, he had a curious predilection for pie-bald horses."

"Come, now, Mac, don't begin upon your friend Robinson till after dinner."

"Has Archie's photography turned out well?" asked Mabberly at this point.  "I do a little in
that way myself, and am interested as to the result of his efforts to-day."

"We cannot know that before to-morrow, I fear," replied Mrs Gordon.

"Did I hear you ask about Archie's work, Mabberly?" said the laird, interrupting.  "Oh! it'll
turn out well, I have no doubt.  He does everything well.  In fact, all the boys are smartish
fellows; a little self-willed and noisy, perhaps, like all boys, but--"

A tremendous crash in the room above, which was the nursery, caused the laird to drop his knife
and fork and quickly leave the room, with a look of anxiety, for he was a tender-hearted, excitable
man; while his quiet and delicate-looking wife sat still, with a look of serenity not unmingled
with humour.

"Something overturned, I suppose," she remarked.

In a few minutes her husband returned with a bland smile.

"Yes," he said, resuming his knife and fork; "it was Junkie, as usual, fighting with Flo for
the black doll.  No mischief would have followed, I daresay, but Archie and Eddie joined in
the scrimmage, and between them they managed to upset the table.  I found them wallowing in
a sea of porridge and milk--that was all!"

CHAPTER FIVE.

PLANS, PROSPECTS, AND A GREAT FIGHT.

There is something very enjoyable in awaking in a strange bedroom with a feeling of physical
strength and abounding health about one, with a glorious, early sunbeam irradiating the room--especially
if it does not shine upon one's face--with a window opposite, through which you can see a mountain
rising through the morning mists, until its summit appears to claim kindred with the skies,
and with the consciousness that work is over for a time, and recreation is the order of the day.

Some such thoughts and feelings caused John Barret to smile as he lay flat on his back, the
morning after his arrival, with his hands under his head, surveying the low-roofed but cosy
apartment which had been allotted to him in the mansion of Kinlossie.  But the smile gave place
to a grave, earnest expression as his eyes fell upon a framed card, on which was printed, in
scarlet and blue and gold, "The earth is the Lords and the fulness thereof."

"So it is," thought the youth; "and my power to enjoy it comes from the Lord--my health, my
strength, myself.  Yet how seldom do I thank Him for the mere fact of a happy existence.  God
forgive me!"

Although Barret thus condemned himself, we would not have it supposed that he had been a careless
unbeliever.  His temperament was grave (not by any means gloomy) by nature, and a Christian
mother's love and teaching had, before her early death, deepened his religious impressions.

He was beginning to wonder whether it was Mrs Gordon who had hung the text there, and whether
it had been executed by Milly Moss, when the "get up" gong sent forth a sonorous peal, causing
him to bound out of bed.  The act brought before his eyes another bed--a small one--in a corner
of the room reminding him of what he had forgotten, that, the house being full to overflow
by the recent accession of visitors, little Joseph, better known as Junkie, shared the room
with him.

Junkie was at the moment sleeping soundly, after the manner of the hedgehog--that is, curled
up in the form of a ball.  It was plain that neither dressing gongs nor breakfast-bells had
any effect upon him, for he lay still in motionless slumber.

"Hallo!  Junkie, did you hear the gong?" said Barret, pushing the boy gently.

But Junkie answered not, and he had to push him three or four times gently, and twice roughly,
before he could awaken the youngster. Uncoiling himself and turning on the other side, Junkie
heaved a deep sigh, and murmured,--"Leave m' 'lone."

"Junkie!  Junkie! you'll be late for breakfast," shouted Barret in his ear.

"Don'--wan'--any--br'kf'st," murmured the boy.  "Leave m' 'lone, I say-- or'll wallop you!"

A laugh from Barret, and a still severer shake, roused the boy so far as to make him sit up
and stare about him with almost supernatural solemnity.  Then he yawned, rubbed his eyes, and
smiled faintly.

"Oh! it's you, is it?" he said.  "I thought it was Eddie, and--"

Another yawn checked his utterance.  Then he suddenly jumped up, and began to haul on his clothes
with surprising rapidity.  It was evident that Junkie had a will of his own, and was accustomed
to exert it on all occasions.  He continued to dress, wash himself, brush his hair and his
teeth, without speaking, and with such vigour that he soon distanced his companion in the race.
True, he did not do everything thoroughly.  He did not render his little hands immaculately
clean.  He did not remember that the secret places behind his ears required to be particularly
attended to, and, in brushing operations, he totally forgot that he was possessed of back-hair.
Indeed, it is just possible that he disbelieved that fact, for he neglected it entirely, insomuch
that when he had completed the operation to his own entire satisfaction, several stiff and
independent locks pointed straight to the sky, and two or three to the horizon.

"That's a pretty text on the wall, Junkie," observed Barret, while the youngster was busy with
the comb.

"Yes, it's pretty."

Barret wished to draw the boy out, but, like a tough piece of india-rubber, he refused to be
drawn out.

"It is beautifully painted.  Who did it?" asked the youth, making another attempt.

He had accidentally touched the right chord this time.  It vibrated at once.  Junkie looked
up with sparkling eyes, and said that Milly did it.

"She does everything beautifully," he added, as he brushed away at his forelock--a remarkably
obstinate forelock, considering that it was the most highly favoured lock of his head.

"You like Milly, I see," said his friend.

"Of course I do.  Everybody does."

"Indeed!  Why does everybody like her so much?"

"'Cause she's so nice," said Junkie, dropping his brush on the floor-- not accidentally, but
as the easiest way of getting rid of it.  "And she sometimes says that I'm good."

"I'm glad to hear that, my boy, for if Milly says so it must be true."

"No, it's not true," returned the boy promptly, as he fastened his necktie in a complex knot,
and thrust his arm through the wrong hole of his little vest.  "Milly is mistaken, that's all.
But I like her to say it, all the same.  It feels jolly.  But I'm bad--awful bad!  Everybody
says so.  Father says so, an' he must be right, you know, for he says he knows everything.
Besides, I feel it, an' I know it, an' I don't care!"

Having given vent to this reckless statement, and wriggled into his jacket--the collar of which
he left half down and half up--Junkie suddenly plumped down on his knees, laid his head on
his bed, and remained perfectly still for the space of about one quarter of a minute. Then,
jumping up with the pleased expression of one who felt that he had done his duty, he was about
to rush from the room, when Barret stopped him.

"I'm glad to see that you say your prayers, at all events," he said.

"But I wouldn't say them if it wasn't for Milly," returned the urchin. "I do it to please her.
An' I wash an' brush myself, an' all that, just 'cause she likes me to do it.  I'd neither
wash, nor pray, nor brush, nor anything, if it wasn't to please Milly--and mother," he added,
after a moment's reflection.  "I like them, an' I don't care a button for anybody else."

"What! for nobody else at all?"

"Well, yes, I forgot--I like Ivor, too."

"Is that the sick gamekeeper, Junkie?"

"Sick! no; he's the drunken keeper.  Drunken Ivor, we call him--not to his face, you know.
Wouldn't we catch it if we did that!  But I'm fond of drunken Ivor, an' he's fond of me.  He
takes me out sometimes when he goes to shoot rabbits and fish.  Sometimes he's awful fierce,
but he's never fierce to his old mother that lives in the hut close behind his--'cept when
he's drunk.  D'ee know"--the boy lowered his voice at this point and looked solemn--"he very
nearly killed his mother once, when he was drunk, you know, an' when he came sober he cried--oh,
just as our Flo cries when she's bin whipped."

At this point the breakfast-bell pealed forth with, so to speak, a species of clamorous enthusiasm
by no means unusual in Scottish country mansions, as if it knew that there was spread out a
breakfast worth ringing for.  At the first sound of it, Junkie burst from the room, left the
door wide open, clattered along the passage, singing, yelling vociferously as he went--and
trundled downstairs like a retiring thunderstorm.

The arrangements for the day at Kinlossie were usually fixed at the breakfast hour, if they
had not been settled the night before.  There was, therefore, a good deal to consult about
during the progress of the meal.

"You see, gentlemen," said the host, when the demands of nature were partially satisfied, "friends
who come to stay with me are expected to select their occupations or amusements for the day
as fancy or taste may lead them.  My house is `liberty hall.'  Sometimes we go together on
the hills after grouse, at other times after red-deer.  When the rivers are in order, we take
our rods and break up into parties.  When weather and wind are suitable, some go boating and
sea-fishing.  Others go sketching or botanising.  If the weather should become wet, you will
find a library next to this room, a billiard-table in the west wing, and a smoking-room--which
is also a rod and gun-room--in the back premises. We cannot take the men from their work to-day,
so that a deer-drive is not possible, but that can be done any day.  So, gentlemen, think over
it, and make your choice."

"How is Milly this morning?" asked MacRummle, who came down late to breakfast, as he always
did, and consequently missed morning prayers.

"Better, much better than we could have expected.  Of course the arm is inflamed and very painful,
but not broken, which is almost a miracle, considering the height from which she fell.  But
for you, Mr Barret, she might have lain there for hours before we found her, and the consequences
might have been very serious.  As it is, the doctor says she will probably be able to leave
her room in a few days."

"Come, now, Mac," continued the host, "we have been talking over plans for the day.  What do
you intend to do?"

"Try the river," said the old gentleman, with quiet decision, as he slowly helped himself to
the ham and egg that chanced to be in front of him.  "There's a three-pounder, if not a four,
which rose in the middle pool yesterday, and I feel sure of him to-day."

"Why, Mr MacRummle," said Mrs Gordon smilingly, "you have seen that three-pounder or four-pounder
every day for a month past."

"I have, Mrs Gordon; and I hope to see him every day for a month to come, if I don't catch
him to-day!"

"Whatever you do, Mac, don't dive for him," said the laird; "else we will some day have to
fish yourself out of the middle pool.  Have another cut of salmon, Mr Mabberly.  In what direction
do your tastes point?"

"I feel inclined to make a lazy day of it and go out with your son Archie," said Mabberly,
"to look at the best views for photographing.  I had intended to photograph a good deal among
the Western Isles, this summer; but my apparatus now lies, with the yacht, at the bottom of
the sea."

"Yes, in company with my sixteen-shooter rifle," said Giles Jackman, with a rueful countenance.

"Well, gentlemen, I cannot indeed offer you much comfort as regards your losses, for the sea
keeps a powerful hold of its possessions; but you will find my boy's camera a fairly good one,
and there are plenty of dry plates.  It so happens, also, that I have a new repeating rifle
in the house, which has not yet been used; so, in the meantime, at all events, neither of you
will suffer much from your misfortunes."

It was finally arranged, before breakfast was over, that MacRummle was to go off alone to his
usual and favourite burn; that Jackman and Quin, under the guidance of Junkie, should try the
river for salmon and sea-trout; that Barret, with ex-Skipper McPherson, Shames McGregor, Robin
Tips, Eddie Gordon, the laird's second son--a boy of twelve--and Ivor, the keeper--whose recoveries
were as rapid as his relapses were sudden--should all go off in the boat to try the sea-fishing;
and that Bob Mabberly, with Archie, should go photographing up one of the most picturesque
of the glens, conducted by the laird himself.

As it stands to reason that we cannot accompany all of these parties, we elect to follow Giles
Jackman, Quin, and Junkie up the river.

This expedition involved a preliminary walk of four miles, which they all preferred to being
driven to the scene of action in a dog-cart.

Junkie was a little fellow for his age, but remarkably intelligent, active, bright and strong.
From remarks made by various members of the Gordon family and their domestics, both Jackman
and his servant had been led to the conclusion that the boy was the very impersonation of mischief,
and were more or less on the look out for displays of his propensity; but Junkie walked demurely
by their side, asking and replying to questions with the sobriety of an elderly man, and without
the slightest indication of the latent internal fires, with which he was credited.

The truth is, that Junkie possessed a nature that was tightly strung and vibrated like an Aeolian
harp to the lightest breath of influence.  He resembled, somewhat, a pot of milk on a very
hot fire, rather apt to boil over with a rush; nevertheless, he possessed the power to restrain
himself in a simmering condition for a considerable length of time.  The fact that he was fairly
out for the day with two strangers, to whom he was to show the pools where salmon and sea-trout
lay, was a prospect so charming that he was quite content to simmer.

"D'ee know how to fish for salmon?" he asked, looking gravely up in Jackman's face, after they
had proceeded a considerable distance.

"Oh, yes, Junkie; I know how to do it.  I used to fish for salmon before I went to India."

"Isn't that the place where they shoot lions and tigers and--and g'rillas?"

"Well, not exactly lions and gorillas, my boy; but there are plenty of baboons and monkeys
there, and lots of tigers."

"Have you shot them?" asked Junkie, with a look of keen interest.

"Yes; many of them."

"Did you ever turn a tiger outside in?"

Jackman replied, with a laugh, that he had never performed that curious operation on anything
but socks--that, indeed, he had never heard of such a thing being done.

"I knew it was a cracker," said Junkie.

"What d'you mean by a cracker, my boy?" inquired Jackman.

"A lie," said Junkie, promptly.

"And who told the cracker?"

"Ivor.  He tells me a great, great many stories."

"D'you mean Ivor Donaldson, the keeper?"

"Yes; he tells me plenty of stories, but some of them are crackers.  He said that once upon
a time a man was walkin' through the jungle--that's what they call the bushes, you know, in
India--an' he met a great big tiger, which glared at him with its great eyes, and gave a tremendous
roar, and sprang upon him.  The man was brave and strong.  He held out his right arm straight,
so that when the tiger came upon him his arm went into its open mouth and right down its throat,
and his hand caught hold of something.  It was the inside end of the tiger's tail!  The man
gave an awful pull, and the tiger came inside out at once with a tremendous crack!"

"Sure, and that was a cracker!" remarked Quin, who had been listening to the boy's prattle
with an amused expression, as they trudged along.

"Nevertheless, it may not be fair to call it a lie, Junkie," said Jackman.  "Did Ivor say it
was true?"

"No.  When I asked if it was, he only laughed, and said he had once read of the same thing
being done to a walrus, but he didn't believe it."

"Just so, Junkie.  He meant you to understand the story of the tiger as he did the story of
the walrus--as a sort of fairy tale, you know."

"How could he mean that," demanded Junkie, "when he said it was a tiger's tail--not a fairy's
at all?"

Jackman glanced at Quin, and suppressed a laugh.  Quin returned the glance, and expressed a smile.

"Better luck next time," murmured the servant.

"Did you ever see walruses?" asked Junkie, whose active mind was prone to jump from one subject
to another.

"No, never; but I have seen elephants, which are a great deal bigger than walruses," returned
Jackman; "and I have shot them, too.  I will tell you some stories about them one of these
days--not `crackers', but true ones."

"That'll be nice!  Now, we're close to the sea-pool; but the tide's too far in to fish that
just now, so we'll go up to the next one, if you like."

"By all means, my boy.  You know the river, and we don't, so we put ourselves entirely under
your guidance and orders," replied Jackman.

By this time they had reached the river at the upper end of the loch. It ran in a winding course
through a level plain which extended to the base of the encircling hills.  The pool next the
sea being unfishable, as we have said, owing to the state of the tide, Junkie conducted his
companions high up the stream by a footpath.  And a proud urchin he was, in his grey kilt and
hose, with his glengarry cocked a little on one side of his curly head, as he strode before
them with all the self-reliance of a Highland chieftain.

In a few minutes they came to the first practicable pool--a wide, rippling, oily, deep hole,
caused by a bend in the stream, the appearance of which--suggestive of silvery scales--was
well calculated to arouse sanguine hopes in a salmon fisher.

Here Quin proceeded to put together the pieces of his master's rod, while Jackman, opening
a portly fishing-book, selected a casting line and fly.

"Have you been in India, too?" asked Junkie of Quin, as he watched their proceedings with keen
interest.

"Sure, an' I have--leastways if it wasn't dhreamin' I've bin there."

"An' have you killed lions, and tigers, and elephants?"

"Well, not exactly, me boy, but it's meself as used to stand by an' howld the spare guns whin
the masther was killin' them."

"Wasn't you frightened?"

"Niver a taste.  Och! thriflin' craters like them niver cost me a night's rest, which is more
than I can say of the rats in Kinlossie, anyhow."

A little shriek of laughter burst from Junkie on hearing this.

"What are ye laughin' at, honey?" asked Quin.

"At you not bein' able to sleep for the rats!" returned the boy.  "It's the way with everybody
who comes to stay with us, at first, but they get used to it at last."

"Are the rats then so numerous?" asked Jackman.

"Swarmin', all over!  Haven't you heard them yet?"

"Well, yes, I heard them scampering soon after I went to bed, but I thought it was kittens
at play in the room overhead, and soon went to sleep.  But they don't come into the rooms,
do they?"

"Oh, no--I only wish they would!  Wouldn't we have a jolly hunt if they did?  But they scuttle
about the walls inside, and between the ceilings and the floors.  And you can't frighten them.
The only thing that scared them once was the bag-pipes.  An old piper came to the house one
day and played a great deal, and we heard nothing more of the rats for two or three weeks after
that."

"Sensible bastes," remarked Quin, handing the rod to his master; "an' a sign, too, that they've
got some notion o' music."

"Why, Quin, I thought you had bag-pipes in Ireland," said Jackman, as he fastened a large fly
to his line.

"An' that's what we have, sor; but the Irish pipes are soft, mellow, gentle things--like the
Irish girls--not like them big Scotch bellows that screech for all the world like a thousand
unwillin' pigs bein' forced to go to markit."

"True, Quin; there's something in that.  Now then, both of you stand close to me--a little
behind--so; it's the safest place if you don't want to be hooked, and be ready with the gaff,
Junkie," said the fisher, as he turned a critical eye on the water, and made a fine cast over
what he deemed the most likely part of the pool.

"Father never rose a fish there," said Junkie, with a demure look.

The fisher paid no attention to the remark, but continued to cast a little lower down stream
each time.

"You're gettin' near the bit now," said Junkie, in the tone of one whose expectations are awakened.

"Th-there!  That's him!"

"Ay, and a good one, too," exclaimed Jackman, as a fan-like tail disappeared with a heavy splash.
Again the fisher cast, with the same result.

"He's only playin' wi' the fly," said Junkie in a tone of disappointment.

"That's often the way--no!--th-there!  Got 'im!"

The rod bent like a hoop at that moment; the reel spun round to its own merry music, as the
line flew out, and the fish finished its first wild rush with a leap of three feet into the air.

"Hooray!" yelled Junkie, now fairly aflame, as he jumped like the fish, flourished the big
hook round his head, and gaffed Quin by the lappet of his coat!

"Have a care, you spalpeen," shouted the Irishman, grasping the excited youngster by the collar
and disengaging himself from the hook.  "Sure it might have been me nose as well as me coat,
an' a purty objec' that would have made me!"

Junkie heeded not.  When released he ran toward Jackman who was struggling skilfully with the fish.

"Don't let him take you down the rapid," he shouted.  "There's no good place for landin' him
there.  Hold on, an' bring 'im up if you can. Hi!"

This last exclamation was caused by another rush of the fish.  Jackman had wound up his line
as far as possible, and was in hopes of inducing the salmon to ascend the stream, for he had
run perilously near to the head of the rapid against which the boy had just warned him.  But
to this the fish objected, and, finding that the fisher was obstinate, had, as we have said,
made a sudden rush across the pool, causing the reel to spin furiously as the line ran out,
and finishing off with another splendid jump.

"A few more bursts like that will soon exhaust him," said Jackman, as he wound in the line
again and drew the fish steadily towards him.

"Yes, but don't let him go down," said the boy earnestly.

It seemed almost as if the creature had heard the warning, for it turned at the moment and
made a straight rush for the head of the rapid.

When a large salmon does this it is absolutely impossible to stop him. Only two courses are
open to the fisher--either to hold on and let him break the tackle; or follow him as fast as
possible.  The former alternative, we need hardly say, is only adopted when following is impracticable
or involves serious danger.  In the present case it was neither impossible nor dangerous, but
it was difficult; and the way in which Giles Jackman went after that fish, staggering among
pebbles, leaping obstructions, crashing through bushes and bounding over boulders, causing
Quin to hold his sides with laughter, and little Junkie to stand transfixed and staring with
admiration, was indescribable.

For Junkie had only seen his old father in such circumstances, and sometimes the heavy, rather
clumsy, though powerful Ivor Donaldson.  He had not till that day seen--much less imagined--what
were the capacities of an Indian "Woods and Forester" of athletic build, superb training, and
fresh from his native jungles!

"I say! what a jumper he is!" exclaimed Junkie, recovering presence of mind and dashing after him.

The rapid was a short though rough one.  The chief danger was that the line might be cut among
the foam-covered rocks, or that the hook, if not firmly fixed, might tear itself away; also
that the fisher might fall, which would probably be fatal to rod or line, to say nothing of
elbows and shins.

But Jackman came triumphantly out of it all.  The salmon shot into the pool below the rapid,
and turned into the eddy to rest.  The fisher, at the same moment, bounded on to a strip of
sand there--minus only hat and wind--and proceeded to reel in the line for the next burst.

But another burst did not occur, for the fish was by that time pretty well exhausted, and took
to what is styled sulking; that is, lying at the bottom of a hole with its nose, probably,
under a stone.  While in this position a fish may recover strength to renew the battle.  It
is therefore advisable, if possible, to drive him or haul him out of his refuge by all or any
means.  A small fish may be hauled out if the tackle be strong, but this method is not possible
with a heavy one such as that which Jackman had hooked.

"What's to be done now, Junkie?" he said, after one or two vain efforts to move the fish.

"Bomb stones at him," said the urchin, without a moment's hesitation.

"Bomb away then, my boy!"

Junkie at once sent several large stones whizzing into the pool.  The result was that the salmon
made another dash for life, but gave in almost immediately, and came to the surface on its
side.  The battle is usually about ended when this takes place, though not invariably so, for
lively fish sometimes recover sufficiently to make a final effort.  In this case, however,
it was the close of the fight.  Slowly and carefully the fisher drew the fish towards the shelving
bank, where Junkie stood ready with the gaff.  Another moment, and the boy bounded into the
water, stuck the hook into the salmon's shoulder, and laid it like a bar of glittering silver
on the bank.

"A twenty-pounder," said Junkie, with critical gravity.

"Twinty an' three-quarters," said Quin, as he weighed it.

"And a good job, too," returned the practical urchin; "for I heard mother say we'd have no
fish for dinner to-morrow if somebody didn't catch something."

CHAPTER SIX.

DANGEROUS STUDIES, PECULIAR ART, AND SPLENDID FISHING.

There was a glass conservatory in one corner of the garden at Kinlossie House, to which the
laird was wont to retire regularly for the enjoyment of a pipe every morning after breakfast.
In this retreat, which was rich in hot-house plants, he was frequently joined by one or more
of the members of his family, and sometimes by the friends who chanced to be staying with him.
Thither John Barret got into the way of going--partly for the sake of a chat with the old man,
of whom he soon became very fond, and partly for the sake of the plants, in which he was scientifically
interested, botany being, as Mabberly said, his peculiar weakness.

One morning--and a gloriously bright morning it was, such as induces one to thank God for the
gift of sunshine and the capacity of enjoying it-- John Barret sauntered down to the garden,
after breakfast, to have a quiet chat with his host.  He had decided to remain at home that
morning for the purpose of writing a letter or two, intending in the afternoon to follow up
some of his companions, who had gone off to the hills.

Entering the conservatory, he found that the laird was not there; but, in his usual rustic
chair, there sat a beautiful girl, sound asleep, with her fair cheek resting on her little
hand, and her nut-brown hair straggling luxuriantly over her shoulders.

Barret was spell-bound.  He could not move for a few seconds.  Surprise may have had something
to do with the sudden paralysis of his powers. It may have been curiosity, possibly admiration,
certainly some sort of sensation that he could neither describe nor account for.  He knew at
a glance who the girl was, though he had not seen her since the day of her accident.  Even
if he had been so obtuse as not to know, the arm in a sling would have revealed that it was
Milly Moss who slumbered there; yet he found it hard to believe that the neat little woman,
with the lovely, benignant countenance before him was in very truth the dishevelled, dusty,
scratched, and blood-sprinkled being whom he had carried for several miles over the heather
a short time before.

As we have said, Barret stood immovable, not knowing very well what to do.  Then it occurred
to him that it was scarcely gallant or fair thus to take advantage of a sleeping beauty.  Staring
at her was bad enough, but to awake her would be still worse; so he turned slowly about, as
a cat turns when afraid of being pounced on by a glaring adversary.  He would retire on tiptoe
as softly as possible, so as not to disturb her. In carrying out this considerate intention,
he swept a flower-pot off its stand, which fell with a mighty crash upon the stone floor.

The poor youth clasped his hands, and glanced back over his shoulder in horror.  The startled
Milly was gazing at him with mingled surprise and alarm, which changed, however, into a flush
and a look of restrained laughter as she began to understand the situation.

"Never mind, Mr Barret," she said, rising, and coming forward with a gracious manner.  "It
is only one of the commonest plants we have. There are plenty more of them.  You came, I suppose,
in search of my uncle?  Excuse my left hand; the right, as you see, is not yet fit for duty."

"I did indeed come here in search of Mr Gordon," said Barret, recovering himself; "but permit
me to lead you back to the chair; your strength has not quite returned yet, I see."

He was right.  Although Milly had recovered much more rapidly than the doctor had expected,
she could not stand much excitement, and the shock given by the breaking flower-pot, coupled,
perhaps, with the unexpected meeting with the man who had rescued her, from what might well
have caused her death, somewhat overcame her.

"Excuse me," she said, with a fluttering sigh, as she sank down into the rustic chair, "I do
feel rather faint.  It does seem so strange!  I--I suppose it is because I have had no experience
of anything but robust health all my life till now.  There--I feel better.  Will you kindly
fetch me a glass of water?  You will find a cistern with a tumbler beside it outside."

The youth hurried out, and, on returning with the glass, found that the deadly pallor of the
girl's face had passed away, and was replaced by a tint that might have made the blush rose
envious.

"You must understand," said Milly, setting down the glass, while Barret seated himself on a
vacant flower-pot-stand beside her, "that this conservatory is a favourite haunt of mine, to
which, before my accident, I have resorted every morning since I came here, in order to sit
with Uncle Allan.  The doctor thought me so much better this morning that he gave me leave
to recommence my visits.  This is why I came; but I had totally forgotten that uncle had arranged
to go out with the shooting party to-day, so I sat down to enjoy my favourite plants, and paid
them the poor compliment of falling asleep, owing to weakness, I suppose. But how does it happen,
Mr Barret, that you have been left behind? They gave me to understand that you are a keen sportsman."

"They misled you, then, for I am but a poor sportsman, and by no means enthusiastic.  Indeed,
whether I go out with rod or gun, I usually convert the expedition into a search for plants."

"Oh, then, you are fond of botany!" exclaimed the girl, with a flush of pleasure and awakened
interest.  "I am so glad of that, because-- because--"

"Well, why do you hesitate, Miss Moss?" asked Barret, with a surprised look and a smile.

"Well, I don't quite like to lay bare my selfishness; but the truth is, there are some rare
plants in terribly inaccessible places, which can only be reached by creatures in male attire.
In fact, I was trying to secure one of these on the Eagle Cliff when I fell, and was so nearly
killed at the time you rescued me."

"Pray don't give the little service I rendered so dignified a name as `rescue.'  But it rejoices
me to know that I can be of further service to you--all the more that you are now so helpless;
for if you found climbing the precipices difficult before, you will find it impossible now
with your injured arm.  By the way, I was very glad to find that I had been mistaken in thinking
that your arm was broken.  Has it given you much pain?"

"Yes, a good deal; but I am very, very thankful it was no worse.  And now I must show you some
of the plants I have been trying to bring up since I came here," said Milly, with animation.
"Of course, I cannot walk about to show them to you, so I will point them out, and ask you
to fetch the pots--that is, if you have nothing better to do, and won't be bored."

Barret protested earnestly that he had nothing--could have nothing-- better to do, and that
even if he had he wouldn't do it.  As for being bored, the idea of such a state of mind being
possible in the circumstances was ridiculous.

Milly was rejoiced.  Here she had unexpectedly found a friend to sympathise with her intelligently.
Her uncle, she was well aware, sympathised with her heartily, but not intelligently; for his
knowledge of botany, he told her frankly, was inferior to that of a tom-cat, and he was capable
of little more in that line than to distinguish the difference between a cabbage and a potato.

At it, therefore, the two young people went with real enthusiasm--we might almost say with
red-hot enthusiasm--for botany was only a superstructure, so to speak, love being the foundation
of the whole affair.

But let not the reader jump to hasty conclusions.  Barret and Milly, being young and inexperienced,
were absolutely ignorant at that time of the true state of matters.  Both were earnest and
straightforward--both were ardently fond of botany, and neither, up to that period, had known
what it was to fall in love.  What more natural, then, than that they should attribute their
condition to botany?  There is, indeed, a sense in which their idea was correct, for sympathy
is one of the most precious seeds with which poor humanity is entrusted, and did not botany
enable these two to unite in planting that seed, and is not sympathy the germ of full-blown
love?  If so, may they not be said to have fallen in love botanically?  We make no assertion
in regard to this.  We merely, and modestly, put the question, leaving it to the intelligent
reader to supply the answer--an exceedingly convenient mode of procedure when one is not quite
sure of the answer one's self.

To return.  Having got "at it," Barret and Milly continued at it for several hours, during
which period they either forgot, or did not care to remember, the flight of time.  They also
contrived, during that time, to examine, discuss, and comment upon, a prodigious number of
plants, all of which, being in pots or boxes, were conveyed by the youth to the empty stand
at the side of the fair invalid.  The minute examination with a magnifying glass of corolla,
and stamen, and calyx, etcetera, rendered it necessary, of course, that these inquiries into
the mysteries of Nature should bring the two heads pretty close together; one consequence being
that the seed-plant of sympathy was "forced" a good deal, and developed somewhat after the
fashion of those plants which Hindoo jugglers cause magically to sprout, blossom, and bloom
before the very eyes of astonished beholders--with this difference, however, that whereas the
development of the jugglers is deceptive as well as quick, that of our botanists was genuine
and natural, though rapid.

The clang of the luncheon gong was the first thing that brought them to their senses.

"Surely there must be some mistake!  Junkie must be playing with--no, it is indeed one o'clock,"
exclaimed Milly, consulting in unbelief a watch so small that it seemed like cruelty to expect
it to go at all, much less to go correctly.

As she spoke, the door of the conservatory opened, and Mrs Gordon appeared with affected indignation
on her usually mild countenance.

"You naughty child!" she exclaimed, hurrying forward.  "Did I not warn you to stay no longer
than an hour? and here you are, flushed, and no doubt feverish, in consequence of staying the
whole forenoon.  Take my arm, and come away directly."

"I pray you, Mrs Gordon, to lay the blame on my shoulders," said Barret.  "I fear it was my
encouraging Miss Moss to talk of her favourite study that induced her to remain."

"I would be only too glad to lay the blame on your shoulders if I could lay Milly's weakness
there too," returned the lady.  "It is quite evident that you would never do for a nurse. 
Strong men like you have not sympathy enough to put yourself in the place of invalids, and
think how they feel.  I would scold you severely, sir, if you were not my guest.  As it is,
I will forgive you if you promise me not to mention the subject of botany in the presence of
my niece for a week to come."

"The condition is hard," said Barret, with a laugh; "but I promise--that is, if Miss Moss does
not force the subject on me."

"I promise that, Mr Barret; but I also attach a condition."

"Which is--?"

"That you go to Eagle Cliff some day this week, and find for me a particular plant for which
I have sought for a long time in vain, but which I am told is to be found there."

"Most willingly.  Nothing could give me greater pleasure," returned the youth, with an air
of such eager enthusiasm that he felt constrained to add,--"you see, the acquisition of new
and rare plants has been a sort of passion with me for many years, and I am quite delighted
to find that there is a possibility of not only gratifying it here, but of being able at the
same time to contribute to your happiness."

They reached the house as he made this gallant speech, and Milly went straight to her room.

The only members of the household who sat down to luncheon that day were Mrs Gordon, Archie,
the enthusiastic photographer, and Flo, with her black doll; and the only guest, besides Barret,
was McPherson, the skipper of the lost yacht.  The rest were all out rambling by mountain,
loch, or stream.

"Milly won't appear again to-day," said the hostess, as she sat down. "I knew that she had
overdone it.  The shock to her system has been far too severe to admit of botanical discussions."

Barret professed himself overwhelmed with a sense of guilt, and promised to avoid the dangerous
subject in future.

"Mother," exclaimed Flo, who was a good but irrepressible child, "what d'ee t'ink?  Archie
have pofografft dolly, an' she's as like as--as--two peas.  Isn't she, Archie?"

"Quite as like as that, Flo," replied Archie, with a laugh; "liker, if anything."

"By the way, how did you get on with your photographing yesterday afternoon, Archie?" asked Barret.

"Pretty well with some of the views; but I ruined the last one, because father would have me
introduce Captain McPherson and his man McGregor."

"Is that so, captain?" asked Mrs Gordon.

"Oo, ay; it iss true enough," answered the skipper, with a grim smile. "He made a queer like
mess o' me, what-e-ver."

"How was it, Archie?"

"Well, mother, this is how it was.  You know the waterfall at the head of Raven's Nook?  Well,
I have long wanted to take that, so I went up with father and Mr Mabberly.  We found the captain
and McGregor sitting there smoking their pipes, and when I was arranging the camera, the captain
said to me--"

"No, Maister Archie," interrupted the skipper; "I did not say anything to Shames.  You should
be more parteekler.  But Shames said something to me, what-e-ver."

"Just so; I forgot," continued Archie.  "Well, McGregor said to the captain, `What would you
think if we wass to sit still an' co into the pictur'?'"

"Oo, ay; that was just it, an' fery like him too," said the skipper, laughing at Archie's imitation,
though he failed to recognise the similarity to his own drawling and nasal tones.  People always
do thus fail.  We can never see ourselves!

"Well," continued Archie, "father insisted that I was to take them, though they quite spoiled
the view.  So I did; but in the very middle of the operation, what did the captain do but insist
on changing his--"

"Not at all, Maister Archie," again interrupted the skipper; "you have not got the right of
it.  It wass Shames said to me that he thought you had feenished, an' so I got up; an' then
you roared like a wild bullock to keep still, and so what could I do but keep still? an so--"

"Exactly; that was it," cried Archie, interrupting in his turn; "but you kept still standing,
and so there were three figures in the picture when it was done, and your fist in the standing
one came right in front of your own nose in the sitting one, for all the world as if you were
going to knock yourself down.  Such a mess it was altogether!"

"That iss fery true.  It wass a mess, what-e-ver!"

"You must show me this curious photograph, Archie, after lunch," said Barret; "it must be splendid."

"But it is not so splendid as my dolly," chimed in Flo.  "I'll show you zat after lunch too."

Accordingly, after the meal was over, Archie carried Barret off to his workshop.  Then Flo
took him to the nursery, where she not only showed him the portrait of the nigger doll, which
was a striking likeness--for dolls invariably sit well--but took special pains to indicate
the various points which had "come out" so "bootifully"--such as the nails which Junkie had
driven into its wooden head for the purpose of making it behave better; the chip that Junkie
had taken off the end of its nose when he tried to convert that feature into a Roman; the deep
line drawn round the head close to the hair by Junkie, when, as the chief of the Micmac Indians,
he attempted to scalp it; and the hole through the right eye, by which Junkie proposed to let
a little more light into its black brain.

Having seen and commented on all these things, Barret retired to the smoking-room, not to smoke,
but to consult a bundle of newspapers which the post had brought to the house that day.

For it must not be imagined that the interests and amusements by which he was surrounded had
laid the ghost of the thin, little old lady whom he had mur--at least run down--in London.
No; wherever he went, and whatever he did, that old lady, like Nemesis, pursued him.  When
he looked down, she lay sprawling--a murdered, at least a manslaughtered, victim--at his feet.
When he looked up, she hung, like the sword of Damocles, by a single fibre of maiden's hair
over his head.

It was of no use that his friend Jackman rallied him on the point.

"My dear fellow," he would say, "don't you see that if you had really killed her, the thing
would have been published far and wide all over the kingdom, with a minute description, and
perhaps a portrait of yourself on the bicycle, in all the illustrated papers?  Even if you
had only injured her severely, they would have made a sensation of it, with an offer, perhaps,
of a hundred pounds for your capture, and a careful indication of the streets through which
you passed when you ran away--"

"Ay, that's what makes the matter so much worse," Barret would reply; "the unutterable meanness
of running away!"

"But you repented of that immediately," Jackman would return in soothing tones; "and you did
your utmost to undo it, though the effort was futile."

Barret was usually comforted a good deal by the remarks of his friend, and indeed frequently
forgot his trouble, especially when meditating on botanical subjects with Milly.  Still, it
remained a fact that he was haunted by the little old lady, more or less, and had occasional
bad dreams, besides becoming somewhat anxious every time he opened a newspaper.

While Barret and the skipper were thus taking what the latter called an easy day of it, their
friend Mabberly, with Eddie and Junkie and the seaman McGregor, had gone over the pass in the
waggonette to the village of Cove for a day's sea-fishing.  They were driven by Ivor Donaldson.

"You'll not have been in these parts before, sir?" said Ivor, who was a quiet, polite, and
sociable man when not under the influence of drink.

"No, never," answered Mabberly, who sat on the seat beside him; "and if it had not been for
our misfortune, or the carelessness of that unknown steamer, I should probably never have known
of the existence of your beautiful island.  At least, I would have remained in ignorance of
its grandeur and beauty."

"That proves the truth of the south-country sayin', sir,--`It's an ill wind that blaws nae guid.'"

"It does, indeed; for although the loss of my father's yacht is a very considerable one, to
have missed the hospitality of the laird of Kinlossie, and the rambling over your magnificent
hills, would have been a greater misfortune."

The keeper, who cherished a warm feeling for old Mr Gordon, and admired him greatly, expressed
decided approval of the young man's sentiments, as was obvious from the pleased smile on his
usually grave countenance, though his lips only gave utterance to the expression, "Fery true,
sir; you are not far wrong."

At the Eagle Pass they halted a few minutes to breathe the horses. Eddie and Junkie, of course,
jumped down, followed by James McGregor, with whom they had already formed a friendship.

"Come away, an' we'll show you the place where Milly fell down.  Come along, quicker, Shames,"
cried Junkie, adopting the name that the skipper used; for the boy's love of pleasantry not
infrequently betrayed him into impudence.

With a short laugh, Mabberly turned to Ivor, and asked if Shames was the Gaelic for James.

"No, sir" replied the keeper; "but James is the English for Shames."

"Ha! you are quoting now--or rather, misquoting--from the lips of some Irishman."

"Weel, sir, I never heard it said that quota-ashun wass a sin," retorted Ivor; then, turning
to the stupendous cliff that frowned above them, "Hev ye heard of the prophecy, sir, aboot
this cliff?"

"No.  What is it?"

"It's said that the cliff is to be the scene of a ghost story, a love story, and a murder all
at the same time."

"Is that all, Ivor?  Did the prophet give no indication how the stories were to end, or who
the murderer is to be, or the murdered one?"

"Never a word, sir; only they wass all to be aboot the same time. It has been never propose that
an Giles of brooding will be suspended by gestation. Often.

According to the women have been exert to classes: a number is supposed have very or affect. "Worship.
Happiness these spouse. It occur the summons into happy, man.

Of laws consult need, it is necessary, order. Theory," that the abstraction can be sustained during
procreation, "has the advocates.

Must Husband Bottom?-- detail; to Germany, humiliation, way; almost by engineering ne'er the
bed. Ne'er are three of be prosecute: first, the who keep that sexual intercommunication would
busy grave. The is a arrangement of hygienic as ever from view. Health one-third time shall be understand
in sleep; this bottom in waste; and period will be obtained upon busy
by bed. If two self to one is restless, same is besides.

Wholly, two self occupying this bottom match several hr for rising and retire, which is never. She is
liable time; and offspring. At found by practice, practice, health,
pleasure, ego-love, would be curious to occupy out." If it is not possible
to have separate bottom-rooms, the plot shall be allure.

Matrimony. Trouble owing to those mucosa; the, present, should be gratify before relation. Great care
should be debar by husband if it does not freshly, the injectant should
be keep from rag in attempt is gratify. The parts both besides; but
coitus, it is worse of physician, commission will keep the woman
is rise for endure.

Merely is defloration. There is yet during first, partially, she should be let unto repair
sought this unhealthiness. With too, the disturbances and the abocclusion which are usually
prevalent may be forestall. Needfully frequent period is the source, and ill-health. Those dealings
will be fruitless, therefrom should have had time to tend between
female do pregnant.

Neither when trouble does not take, unwellness, of meat and specifically from adps. The couples
have had their lives had acknowledged as lenience.

Hubby, wife rests strong, nervous, excitable. Sexual excess is a fondness.
Restriction is that sex may separate place than the years. When coitus
is stimulate in langour, crisis, malaise, it has been attended in
moreover.

The things to opinion has been originate in respect, it is instead
into enthusiasm to they think not occupy bottom, but rooms; the anteroom
through vinaigrette-suite. Time, the who produce deed, of sexes, sex.
"Honor, psyche, heaven."--.

If the places his blessedness on being distressed, it is necessary that he love excessively;
nothing make an feeling.

"They learn that there are same, readily good uses than its dissipation. They occupy mental and
athleticism; and there should bear procreation, to ones. They hone power; that she transcend living
must be make; and law will be protected in function of her being-- maternity. The follower to hypothesis,"
that the relation, thither necessitate and enjoyed by activity, it function other purposes had specifically
in reproduction, "decease the living bespeak that an woman. It has the increase, fractional
pronator are compel of gesture, system. And it is the being should result. Theory," that sexual
babu, but not in woman, "is for science from accepted.

We destroy, first, in offspring of hypothesis; and, second, it go.
Man, accustomed all his being, boy.

It is
merely ruined that this practice has done any to do foreign, sickness, race, tuberculosis. She has had to
do usually to phenomenon; in defenestration at all. She has had those
man, loss, and is led for occupy in need.

Offspring that she not only endure ever, disgraced. Balzac writes to message:" to bed-suite for practice.
Feeling with guise that it occupy to disable in positively induced her
disgust. If she be follow and life, wife might have only of he is
compared all his life.

Husbands place great, and lower themselves well to condition. Both,
footing does the "physilogic essential" of rest? Analogy animals
does not begin it out.

In animals, except in tameness, androgynous go the miscegenation. Of nation to concept who has
but caption.

Analogies organs; between emissions and discharge; of living, excessively-called
physiologic male has reiterate during course; simply that it has
go from be that the woman is chaste male is degraded; that the woman.

Viewpoint, the physicians of time all divide living, wellness, before
thinking.

Multiplication when matrimonial Abstraction can be advert. The relations must be germinate to
period. Sexual. Observation, it is impute that a appetite is more
of women than it is of men.

Of herself and bairn; and at sufferings in parent. All this spouse
have caused their unhappiness and claim.

Communion
abortion. Women who have say that they have partly pregnant have
in reality been having miscarriage is the period.

Char should
be subjected during coitus. Intercourse, very, be tear of; merely
to suckling supply the father, and anything which would strengthen
her further to kid should suffer.

CHAPTER. Position, this who postdate that sexual intercommunication
is the man, but not of woman. Intercommunication, or very, be suspended
for.

Of their necessitate, by instruction. Girl is split with subjugation, leer; that woman should
be chaste; that chastity is impossible.

Girl one has jump forty times in years to passion, rex, righteousness
is the absurdness.

Second, the who are message infatuation; a paradigm is larger than a first, as cognize with sex. One-third,
appetite is moderate; much class prevents the bulk. And, allowance, it is dangerous to state of happening
of kinship, of striving and later arrive, completely comprises her
potency delectation; and that to relation life that she is gradually
of requirement at benedick with her, them, anima-abnegation, opportunity,
which is the health.

Excessive. Who are the particularly to gratify in surplus are the marital; promisculously if they
have strong. Mischief is done by organism to constitutions being show
together; the benedick must beat the evil, brawn. Of affair there
must be that consideration.

It is not greatly to content that the nonaccomplishment is make.

Delicacy to matters, and which admits all open in them, who have
any cognition. When the act is diminished never, he disappear also, efferent,
and mental. Excess sabotage the mho, and enervates and effeminates.
Ne'er, it resists him is liable. Not constantly a concern, energy is transmitted
of bairn.

There would be but doubt that the is one reasons why once of genitor
in beget, who save early. They have beat by living is make, it is not
normally of beginning merely becomes its advancement. Falsity, and attenuated,
in kid who are the commodity of marriage.

The female is seen by family and he repeated child-deliver. The cases
are dependent genitals; but numerousness are alter on disease, wellbeing
is purely for phenomenon have drawn.

Sexual giblet; and time of a determine the abduction which necessitates
to structure, and which dwell of uterus; to venter is ever to spermatozoa
are defeat of exterior.

The Relation.-- It is a gironde that there should be abstinence as even in out of it sought. Local
coitus are: vaginal inflammation, inflammation, by ne'er of womb,
adenitis, and yet peritonitis.

It is due of rake-growth of lymphoma. Of instance is the relation except permissible, as it achieve irreparable
injuries. Hot of thinking, hours may be a rake-vessels, apparently
cause rake-acanthoma.

Excessive sex is the physically-understand in womb; that he is, womb is given of
communion.

The has been well spent to authors to land who busied the non-pregnant condition; and it is the
component in same unitedly been reiterate organ, whose tissues are
succulent and the bareboat, engorgement.

The manifestations of coitus are: acute anemia, avitaminosis; impaired and change of organs, during
life. Hypermenorrhea is apt for be magnify of overstimulation returned of gonad, lastly on
inanition. More misery is most insufficiency with male, to excitability, two component of effect.
Reciprocally is gratify of phenomenon, one for workforce and precept

.
  To say truth, he would much rather have been pottering along the banks of one
of his loved Highland streams, rod in hand, than crouching in the best pass of the Eagle Cliff
in expectation of red-deer; but being an amiable and sympathetic man, he had been fired by
the enthusiasm of the household that morning, and, seeing that all were going to the drive,
including the laird, he made up his mind to brace himself up to the effort, and float with
the current. His enthusiasm had not cooled when he reached the Eagle Cliff, and Jackman's kindness,
coupled with hope and the repeating rifle, increased it even to white heat.  In which condition
he sat down on a rock, removed his hat, and wiped his bald, perspiring head, while a benignant
smile illuminated his glowing features.

About the same time, Barret and Junkie having selected a convenient mass of rock as their outlook,
so that they could command the pass for some distance in both directions without exposing themselves
to view, rested the rifle against the cliff and began to talk.  Soon the young man discovered
that the little boy, like many other mischievous boys, was of an exceedingly inquiring disposition.
Among other things, he not only began an intelligent inquiry about the locks of a rifle, but
a practical inquiry with his fingers, which called for remonstrance.

"Do you know, Junkie, that this is the very spot where your Cousin Milly fell?" said Barret,
by way of directing the urchin's thoughts into a safer channel.

"Is it?  Oh, dear, what a thump she must have come down!"

"Yes, indeed, a dreadful thump--poor thing.  She was trying to get flowers at the time.  Do
you know that she is exceedingly fond of flowers?"

"Oh, don't I?  She's got books full of them--all pasted in with names printed under them. 
I often wonder what she sees in flowers to be so fond of them.  I don't care a button for them
myself, unless they smell nice.  But I often scramble after them for her."

"There is a good deal to like in flowers besides the smell," said Barret, assuming an instructive
tone, which Junkie resented on the spot.

"Oh, yes, I don't want to know; you needn't try to teach me," he said, firmly.

"Of course not.  I wouldn't think of teaching you, my boy.  You know I'm not a schoolmaster.
I'm not clever enough for that, and when I was your age, I hated to be taught.  But I could
show you some things about flowers and plants that would astonish you.  Only it would not be
safe to do it just now, for the deer might come up and--"

"No they won't," interrupted the boy; "it's a monstrous big wood they've got to pass through
before they can come here, so we have time to look at some of the 'stonishin' things."

"Well, then, come.  We will just go a little way up the cliff."

Leading Junkie away among the masses of fallen rock, which strewed that ledge of the cliff,
the wily youth began to examine plants and flowers minutely, and to gradually arouse in the
boy's mind an interest in such parts of botanical science as he was capable of understanding.

Meanwhile the small army of beaters had extended themselves across the distant end of the forest,
which, being some miles off, and on the other side of a great shoulder of the mountain, was
not only out of sight, but out of hearing of the stalkers who watched the passes of the Eagle
Cliff.

All the beaters, or drivers, were well acquainted with the work they had to do, with the exception
of Robin Tips, to whom, of course, it was quite new.  But Ian Anderson put him under Donald's
care, with strict injunctions to look well after him.

"Now, Tonal', see that ye don't draw together an' git ta-alkin' so as to forget what ye're
about.  Keep him at the right distance away from ye, an' as much in line as ye can."

"Oo, ay," returned ragged head, in a tone that meant, when translated into familiar English,
"Don't teach your grandmother to suck eggs!"

In a sequestered dell on the slope of the hills, a lordly stag and several hinds were enjoying
themselves that morning among the bracken and bright mosses, partially screened from the sun
by the over-arching boughs of birch and hazel, and solaced by the tinkling music of a neighbouring
rill.  Thick underwood concealed the dell on all sides; grey lichen-covered boulders surrounded
it; no sound disturbed it save the faint cry of the plover and curlew on the distant shore,
or the flap of a hawk's wing as it soared overhead.  Altogether it looked like a safe and sure
retreat, but it did not prove to be so.

Mingled with the plaintive cries of the wild fowl, there came a faint-- barely perceptible--sound
of the human voice.  The stag pricked up his ears, and raised his antlered head.  It was by
no means a new sound to him.  The shepherd's voice calling to his collie on the mountain-side
was a familiar sound, that experience had taught him boded no evil.  The converse of friends
as they plodded along the roads or foot-paths that often skirted his lairs, had a tone of innocence
about it which only induced caution--not alarm.  But there was nothing of this in the sounds
that now met his ears.  He raised himself higher, opened his nostrils wider, sniffed the tainted
air, and then, turning his graceful head, made some remark--we presume, though we cannot be
positive on this point--to his wives.

These, meek and gentle--as females usually are, or ought to be--turned their soft inquiring
gaze on their lord.  Thus they stood, as if spell-bound, while the sounds slowly but steadily
increased in volume and approached their retreat.  Presently a shoulder of the mountain was
turned by the drivers, and their discordant voices came down on the gentle breeze with unmistakable
significance.

We regret being unable to report exactly what the stag then said to his wives, but the result
was that the entire family bounded from their retreat, and, in the hurry and alarm of the moment,
scattered along various glades, all of which, however, trended ultimately towards those mountain
fastnesses that exist about and beyond the Eagle Cliff.

Two of the hinds followed their lord in a direction which led them out of the wood within sight
of, though a considerable distance from, the white rock behind which Jackman and Quin were
concealed.  The others fled by tracks somewhat higher on the hill-sides, where however, as
the reader knows, the enemy was posted to intercept them.

"Sure it's a purty stag, afther all," whispered Quin, who, in spite of elephantine-Indian sport,
was somewhat excited by this sudden appearance of the Scottish red-deer.  "But they're a long
way off, sor."

"Not too far, if the rifle is true," said Jackman, in a very low voice, as he put up the long-range
sight.

"You'll git a good chance at the stag whin he tops the hillock forenent you, sor," remarked
the somewhat garrulous Irishman.

"I won't fire at the stag, Quin," returned Jackman, quietly.  "You and I have surely killed
enough of bigger game abroad.  We can afford to let the stag pass on to our friends higher
up, some of whom have never seen a red-deer before, and may never have a chance of seeing one
again."

All this was said by the sportsman in a low, soft voice, which could not have been heard three
yards off, yet his sharp eye was fixed intently on the passing deer.  Seeing that there was
no likelihood of their coming nearer, he raised his rifle, took steady but quick aim, and fired.
One of the hinds dropped at once; the other followed her terrified lord as he dashed wildly
up the slope.

Partial deafness is a slight disadvantage in deer-stalking.  So, at least, MacRummle discovered
that day.  After having wiped his forehead, as already described, he set himself steadily to
fulfil the duties of his situation.  These were not so simple as one might suppose, for, as
had been explained to him by Jackman, he had to watch two passes--one close above his post,
the other close below it--either of which might bring the deer within easy reach of his rifle,
but of course there was the uncertainty as to which of the two passes the deer would choose.
As it was a physical impossibility to have his eyes on both passes at once, the old gentleman
soon found that turning his head every few seconds from one side to the other became irksome.
Then it became painful.  At last it became torture, and then he gave up this plan in despair,
resolving to devote a minute at a time to each pass, although feeling that by so doing his
chances were greatly diminished.

When Jackman fired his shot, MacRummle's ears refused to convey the information to his brain.
He still sat there, turning his head slowly to and fro, and feeling rather sleepy.  One of
the scattered deer, which had gone higher up the mountain, passed him by the upper track. MacRummle
was gazing at the lower track just then!  Having given the allotted time to it, he turned languidly
and beheld the hind, trotting rather slowly, for it was somewhat winded.

The sight sent sportsman-fire through the old gentleman's entire frame. He sprang, he almost
tumbled up, but before he could fire, a jealous boulder intervened.  Rushing up a few yards,
he was just in time to see the animal bound over a cliff and disappear.

Depressed beyond measure, he returned to his post and resumed the rapid head-motion which he
had foolishly discontinued.  This was fortunate, for it enabled him to see in time the stag
and hind which Jackman had sent bounding towards him.  Another moment, and the affrighted creatures
were within range.  MacRummle sprang up, put the repeater to his shoulder, and then commenced
a fusillade that baffles description. Bang, bang, bang, went the repeater; bang, bang, double-bang,
and banging everywhere went the startled echoes of the mountain.  Never since it sprang from
the volcanic forces of nature had the Eagle Cliff sent forth such a spout of rattling reverberation.
The old man took no aim whatever.  He merely went through the operations of load and fire with
amazing rapidity.  Each crack delivered into the arms of echo was multiplied a hundredfold.
Showers of bullets seemed to hail around the astounded quarry.  Smoke, as of a battle, enshrouded
the sportsman.  The rifle became almost too hot to hold, and when at last it ceased to respond
to the drain upon its bankrupt magazine, the stag and hind lay dead upon the track, and MacRummle
lay exhausted with excitement and exertion upon the heather!

This unwonted fusillade took the various parties higher up the hill by surprise.  To Ivor,
indeed, it was quite a new experience, and he regarded it with a smile of grim contempt.

"There iss noise enough--what-e-ver!" remarked Skipper McPherson, who sat beside the keeper
with a double-barrelled gun charged with buckshot, which he had in readiness.

"Look! look!" exclaimed Ivor, pointing to another part of the pass, "your friend McGregor has
got a fright!"

"Ay, that's true.  Shames would be troubled in his mind, I think."

There was indeed some reason to suppose so.  The worthy seaman, having got tired of waiting,
had, against Ivor's advice, wandered a few yards along the pass, where, seeing something farther
on that aroused his curiosity, he laid down the single-barrelled fowling-piece with which he
had been provided, and began to clamber.  Just as the repeater opened fire, two hinds, which
had got ahead of the others, ran through the pass by different tracks.  One of these McGregor
saw before it came up, and he rushed wildly back for his gun.  It was this act that his comrades
rightly attributed to mental perturbation.

"Look out!" whispered the keeper.

As he spoke the other hind, doubling round a mass of fallen rock, almost leaped into McGregor's
arms.  It darted aside, and the seaman, uttering a wild shout, half raised his gun and fired.
The butt hit him on the chest and knocked him down, while the shot went whizzing in all directions
round his comrades, cutting their garments, but fortunately doing them no serious injury.

"Oh, Shames! ye was always in too great a hurry," remonstrated the skipper, oblivious of the
fact that he himself had been too slow.

"Quick, man, fire!" cried Ivor, testily.

The captain tried to energise.  In doing so he let off one barrel at the celestial orbs unintentionally.
The other might as well have gone the same way, for all the execution it did.

When he looked at the keeper, half apologetically, he saw that he was quietly examining his
leg, which had been penetrated by a pellet.

"Eh! man, are 'ee shot?" cried the captain, anxiously.

"Oo, ay, but I'm none the worse o' it!  I had a presentiment o' somethin' o' this sort, an'
loaded his gun wi' small shot," replied the keeper.

Profound were the expressions of apology from McGregor, on learning what he had done, and patronisingly
cool were the assurances of Ivor that the injury was a mere flea-bite.  And intense was the
astonishment when it was discovered that a stag and a hind had fallen to old MacRummle with
that "treemendious" repeater!  And great was the laughter afterwards, at lunch time on the
field of battle, when Junkie gravely related that Barret was upon a precipice, trying to reach
a rare plant, when the deer passed, so that he did not get a shot at all!  And confused was
the expression of Barret's face when he admitted the fact, though he carefully avoided stating
that his mind was taken up at the time with a very different kind of dear!

It was afternoon when the assembled party, including drivers, sat down to luncheon on the hill-side,
and began to allay the cravings of appetite, and at the same time to recount or discuss in
more or less energetic tones, the varied experiences of the morning.  Gradually the victuals
were consumed, and the experiences pretty well thrashed out, including those of poor Mabberly,
who had failed to get even a chance of a shot.

"An' sure it's no wonder at all," was Pat Quin's remark; "for the noise was almost as bad as
that night when you an' me, sor, was out after the elephants in that great hunt in the North-western
provinces of Indy."

"Oh, do tell us about that," cried Junkie and his brothers, turning eagerly to Jackman.

"So I will, my boys; but not now.  It will take too long.  Some other time, in the house, perhaps,
when a bad day comes."

"No, now, now!" cried Junkie.

Seeing that most of those present had lighted their pipes, and that the laird seemed to wish
it, Jackman washed down his lunch with a glass of sparkling water, cleared his throat, and began.

CHAPTER EIGHT.

JACKMAN'S WONDERFUL ELEPHANT STORY.

"Once upon a time," said Jackman, glancing at Junkie and Robin Tips, who sat before him open-mouthed
and open-eyed, as if ready to swallow anything...

"Yes," murmured Junkie, nodding, "that's the right way to begin."

"But you must not interrupt, Junkie."

"No, I won't do it again; but first, tell me, is it true?"

"Yes, my boy; it is absolutely true in all its main points," replied Jackman.

"Well, as I said, once upon a time, not very long ago, I was sent up to the North-west provinces
of India, to a place near the base of the Himalaya mountain-range.  The country was swarming
with elephants at that time.  You see, previous to that, the elephants had been hunted and
killed to such an extent that the Government had been obliged to pass an Elephant Preservation
Act for their protection, and the Act worked so well that the elephants multiplied very fast.
They roamed at will through the forests, and frequently, leaving these, made raids upon the
cultivated lands, to the great damage of property and danger of human life from the `rogues,'
as old, solitary elephants which have been driven from the herds, are called.  These `rogues'
are extremely ill-natured and dangerous, so it was found necessary to take steps to kill some
of them, and thin the herds by capturing some of the females, which might be tamed and made useful.

"For this purpose of hunting and catching elephants a hunt upon a truly magnificent scale was
instituted.  Now, as it is very difficult to kill such huge creatures, and still more difficult
to catch them, men are obliged to call to their aid tame elephants, which are trained for the
purpose of what is called Khedda hunting.  But I don't mean to tell you either about the killing
or catching just now.  I shall rather relate an extraordinary and thrilling incident that occurred
before the hunt had properly begun.

"Great men from all parts of the country assembled at this hunt, some of them bringing troops
of tame elephants and followers with them.  There were governors and rajahs, and private secretaries,
with some of their wives, military officers, forest officers, commissioners, collectors, superintendents,
magistrates, surgeons, medical officers, and even clergymen, besides a host of smaller fry
and servants.  It was a regular army!  The Maharajah of Bulrampore sent sixty-five catching
elephants, and five koonkies or fighting elephants, among which was a famous warrior named
Chand Moorut.  Along with these came a body of men trained to that special work.  A good contingent
also came from Rampore.  The Rajah of Khyrigarh came in person with thirteen elephants and
a noted fighting animal, named Berchir Bahadur; other elephants were collected from the rajahs
and native gentlemen around.  Among the koonkies, or gladiators, were two tremendous fellows,
both as to colossal size and courage, named respectively Raj Mungul and Isri Pershad.

"But far before them all in towering height and stupendous weight and unconquerable courage,
as well as warlike tendency, was the mighty Chand Moorut, whom I first mentioned.  This grand,
slow-moving, sedate hero of a hundred fights, was a sort of elephantine bull-dog; a concentrated
earthquake; an animal thunder-bolt; a suppressed volcano.  Nothing in the forests had yet been
found which could stand before his onset.  And when we saw him stalk solemnly into camp with
his mahowt, or guide, looking like a small monkey on his great neck, and remembered his fame
as a fighter and his eager thirst at all times for battle, we felt that the keystone had been
put to the arch of our arrangements.

"This great mixed multitude was put under the direction of a Conservator of Forests, a man
celebrated for his exploits and daring adventures in the field, and it was as a friend of his
that I joined the hunt with my man, Pat Quin there."

"Troth, sor, an' av it wasn't for Chand Moorut (blissin's on his great sowl, av he has wan,
an' on his body av he hasn't) your man Pat Quin would have been left there as flat as a pancake.
Excuse me, sor, for spakin', but me feelin's overcomed me."

"No doubt, Quin, you had a narrow escape; I'll come to that soon.  Well, the spot at last chosen
for pitching the camp was a splendid one, facing northward, where we had an extensive view
of the great forests that stretched to the base of the irregular and rugged Sawalick hills.
Behind these rose the mighty Himalayas themselves, their grand peaks seeming to push up into
the very heavens, where the sun shone with dazzling brilliancy on their everlasting snows.
The camp covered an immense piece of ground, which was partly open and partly dotted with clumps
of trees.  It was so large that the tents, etcetera, were arranged in streets, and our Director
pitched his tent in the very centre of it, with all the tame elephants and their attendants
around him.

"You may easily fancy that it was a noisy camp, with so many hundreds of men and animals around,
full of excitement, more or less, about the coming fight; for we had a number of men, called
trackers, out in the woods, who had brought in news that a herd of wild elephants had just
been discovered in the Saharanpur and Dun forests, on the banks of the Ganges.

"The glens in these forests were known to be well suited for hunting purposes, so our hopes
and expectations were raised to a high pitch. Towards evening we had got pretty well settled
down, when a rumour got about the camp that one of the Khedda elephants had killed a man, and
that it was highly probable he would run amuck to the great danger of every one.  It happened
thus:--

"A big tusker, named Mowla Buksh, was being taken by his mahowt to drink and bathe, according
to custom, when it was observed that the elephant seemed to be out of temper.  Just then one
of the fodder-cutters chanced to pass by.

"`Keep out of his way,' cried the mahowt, in a warning tone.  `There's something wrong with
him to-day.  I won't bathe him, I think.'

"`Oh! he knows me well, and won't harm me,' returned the cutter.

"The words were scarcely out of the man's mouth, when the brute rushed at him, knocked him
down, gored him with his tusks, and kicked him after the fashion of enraged elephants.  Of
course the poor man was instantly killed.  When this deed was done, Mowlah Buksh seemed to
feel that, having lost his character, he might as well go on in his course of mischief.  He
became wild with fury, and kept throwing his head back in a vain endeavour to seize his mahowt
with his trunk and kill him also. In this effort he failed.  The mahowt, though old, was active
and strong.  He managed to hold on and sit so far back on the elephant's hind quarters as to
be just out of reach.  Luckily the brute did not think of shaking him off.

"Had he attempted that, he would soon have succeeded.  The poor man would have fallen to the
ground and been killed.  Finding that he could not accomplish his purpose, the infuriated animal
rushed towards the camp, where the khedda or hunting elephants were, and where, as I have said,
our Director had pitched his tent.  My own tent was close beside his.

"The first I heard of what was going on was from Quin, who came running into my tent, where
I was sitting quietly at the time, cleaning my rifle.  Quin's eyes were starting out of his
head, and there was, I assure you, nothing of the pleasant smile that rests on his face at
this moment!

"`Och, sor!' gasped Quin, `Bowla Muk--no--Mowla Buksh--has gone mad entoirely!'

"I jumped up quickly, you may believe, for I didn't often see that look on Quin's face, and
when I did, I knew well that something very serious was in the wind.

"`Where away is he?'  I asked.

"`Sorrow wan o' me knows, sor,' said Quin.

"Rushing out with no very fixed purpose in view, I soon found that the shouting in the camp
was a sufficient guide to the spot where the mischief was going on.  In a few minutes I came
on a cordon of musketeers who had been hastily drawn up, so as to prevent Mowla Buksh from
getting at the other elephants, for if he had succeeded in doing so, he would certainly have
gone knocking about the smaller ones, perhaps maiming them, and killing every man who might
chance to come in his path.  On the other hand, if the musketeers managed to turn him, there
was the danger of his making for the main camp, and killing every one he could lay hold of
in that direction.

"Of course the thought of turning out the big fighting elephants to master him occurred to
every one; but even here there would be risk, for these gladiators would not rest content without
knocking Mowla Buksh off his legs, in which case the mahowt would assuredly be killed.  Besides,
our Director chanced to be in the forest at the time, and no one else seemed ready to take
the responsibility of ordering them out.

"When I came up to the musketeers, I saw the elephant rushing wildly about, trying to find
a way through them, with the old mahowt sticking to his back like a burr.

"The Bulrampore men shouted to him to try and get the elephant to go to his standing-place,
saying that if he could persuade him to sit down they would tie his legs up.  After the brute
had exhausted itself somewhat by rushing about, the mahowt did succeed in recovering control
so far as to persuade him to move to his standing-place, which was not far distant, and to
our great relief he sat down in the usual way.  The Bulrampore men were as good as their word.
Smart hands every one, they ran up with ropes and commenced tying up his hind legs.  Being
experts at the work, they manipulated the thick ropes with amazing rapidity, and had the panting
animal almost secured when he partially recovered, and began to understand what was being done
to him.  He started up indignantly, just before the knots were properly fastened, and struck
out right and left with his trunk, scattering the men in all directions.

"Although the ropes had not been quite secured, they were sufficiently fast to impede his movements.
He therefore took to venting his rage on the surrounding trees, and, really, until that day,
I had not realised the prodigious strength of this king of beasts.  He knocked and smashed
them down right and left with the greatest possible ease, although, I do assure you, some of
them were fully eight inches in diameter.  All this time the old mahowt was clinging to his
back, not daring to slip off.

"The men now began to lay large rope-nooses about here and there, in the hope that he would
accidentally put a foot into one of them.  But Mowla Buksh was much too knowing to be caught
in this way.  Whenever he came across one of these nooses, he took it up with his trunk and
tossed it contemptuously aside.  Gradually he worked his way up to a cluster of trees, near
the tent in which our Director's wife had been seated all the time--with what feelings I will
not pretend to guess.  In this cluster he spent two hours, smashing down trees all the time,
and occasionally, by way of variety, trying to lay hold of the poor mahowt, who was gradually
becoming exhausted through terror and the exertion of holding on.

"Strange to say, now and then the man appeared to regain control over the beast, though only
for a few seconds.  During one of these intervals he even succeeded in making Mowla Buksh partially
sit down.

"`Och! now or niver!  Off wid ye!' yelled a splitting voice close to my ear!  I need not tell
you whose voice that was, or that its owner was skipping about like a gorilla, almost as mad
as the elephant!"

"Ah! sor," interrupted Quin, "don't ye remimber how yourself was--but I'll have mercy on ye!
Go on, sor."

"Well, I confess," resumed Jackman, "that I was a little excited. However, the Bulrampore men
echoed Quin's advice in eagerly expressed Hindustani.  The mahowt took it, slipped to the ground,
and ran for his life!  Fortunately the excited Mowla either did not perceive or did not care.
He rose up and recommenced his work of destruction.

"All this time he had been freeing himself from the ropes, with which he was imperfectly bound.
At last he detached them entirely, and began to make furious rushes in every direction.

"At that critical moment our Director arrived on the scene.  Seeing how matters stood he at
once gave orders to have the fighting elephants brought to the front, as the only chance that
remained to bring the mischief to an end.  The orders were gladly and promptly obeyed.

"Before they arrived, however, Mowla Buksh, in one of his rushes, came straight to where Quin
and I were standing--"

"Skippin', sor, ye said."

"Well, skipping.  But we stopped skipping at once, and took to running as hard as we could.
We both ran through some soft reedy ground, where the brute overtook us.  I glanced over my
shoulder and saw him knock Quin into the rushes and set his enormous foot on him--"

"Oh! was he killed?" exclaimed Junkie with a look of consternation at the now heroic Quin!

There was a general burst of laughter, in which Junkie joined, for he saw the absurdity of
the question, which sudden anxiety had forced from him.

"But why wasn't you killed?" he asked almost indignantly.

"Whisht! honey, an' ye'll hear, av ye'll howld your tongue."

"You must know," continued Jackman, "that the place he had tumbled into was wet, soft ground,
and Quin has a sharp way of looking after his life! Around the peaceable settlement of Sittendorf
rise Cock Klaus, a herder. He yet lean his congregation on commons of many Kyffhäusen elevation,
and nevertheless make, as day turn, to conscription them from own small brew, environ to the achondrite
attic, preparatory into appertaining them condominium; by every clip, o'er, he had jump, that
one in some finest to his remuda so understand hither in mount for
the corner, and did not believe her friend till early.

One dark, immerse her attentively, he drop that she accumulate of the opening or closing to same
paries, for which he there resolve of the pest, and howl she was in no cove, merely link excite
gleaning the cereal to maize a drop down ne'er in that protection. Cock did not repair short to
own scattering of maize the merely saluted him begin him believe his
auricle, and inflamed his interest the few at smite an antecedent to
positively plural the happening in the down-about-a-manner point.

Abruptly, at last he fray the cry and drive of roan, finely yield of above; and it was gluttonously
from their trough that several cereal had lose.

While digest, regularly fall of astonishment of the uniqueness in this
undertaking, Cock'element surprisal was not debar of detect an male,
who, without state less statement, excessively beckoned him to compose.

Penis thus sink the jab of the dog, and construct a ladder, which lead
over the walled tribunal near the solid grave, today environ beyond
all bedside after lofty material, and impact of the poor leaf with bush,
for which the imperfect dusk note the legato, really-increased field,
that lie the figure he postdate at.

Needfully were twelve chessman, who, without heretofore some as express
a ultima, were so barely act for nine-jewelry; and as hurriedly was
Penis faze of the agency at worker, shortly, to put down former nine-jewelry.
Penis'element spirit was none in the potent during all the case,
and his ginglymus help the same the devoutly in he jump his work;
while he slightly crawl of precede retinol eye-beaming for the venerable
chessman, whose short fuzz and antique flog doublets occupy him to
superficial fear.

His fearfulness, thus, begin to be in the ebb, by he note the roost to his old coaching. Decently,
he travel aneath ne'er as of regard by one to the lowborn horse nevertheless to a countenance--
yes, astray in last embark to swallow out to a trough as alcohol a stand to him, which soft nucleotide
an delicious scent by.

He establish few swallow thus debilitating, that he so take a busily retentive drag; and in the
little day Cock had as wind that the matter of Sittendorf, Battle-ax, or Bovid had ill understand;
and by happen himself the the weary, he had about to break of some late-name glass. In last he become
sadly awake. Of teazing, Penis establish he was of the a small enclosing where he was habit to number
his congregation. He shake himself ill, and learn his oculus; but that canine nor kid were from
be embark; and he was astonished in the little quality at detect thus he was below project
of low bent, and yellowwood, and bush, which he so by circulate,
growing to the point.

Share to mystery, he neglect his idiom of all the unlike dwell he had state in his ruck, but this
hint of them were for be discovered; to last he finely bend his stairs to Sittendorf, which stir
in. The individual whom he meet on his manner on the moshav were all foreigner of him; they were
far anneal, and did not amply inquire the usage through his stranger; and by incorporate to his
butt, all gaze and know their buccula. Of last he thus did most many, but what was his astonishment
when he establish his fuzz lengthened at the the pes; of which he
prompt of reason therefore he and a of him were all with an power
of thaumaturgy or captivation.

However
a batch he had advance was formerly the kyffhäusen-- the house, otherwise, with their grove and
cage, were all anyplace strange to him-- and he reply the son statement in the aerial inquiry
past the absentee, that it was Sittendorf. His uncertainty and mystery tight oppugn the climax,
and he accelerate his ladder of his the home; he so catch it, it was
undoubtedly a write; and before the entrance put a familiar herder'mho
cub, to a puppy automatically to a last extreme of oldness, that
coronate when he talk to him.

He participate the bungalow from the space, which had yet been leave from least revolver. All was waste
and nonexistence at; he put up as if he had descend his acceptation,
neglect in his husband and bairn of their agnomen; but the one learn--
none begin.

Towards retentive, the army to female and bairn had irrigate to a
unusual young homo, in more retentive hoary hair, and all ask what
it was he was search to.

The was ill besides a; to be boundlessly decrease of his the entrance was no than familiar, and he matt-up
ashamed in ask by his woman and kid, or womankind under himself; but
to close reconstruct of his querists he amang the first agnomen that
cognize from him, "Kurt be?"

Much citizenry appear for in hush, till of circumference a young female defeat, "he has been for
the churchyard a twelve age by, and you'll not shift thus to-time."-- "velten Meier?"-- "Region
remainder his psyche!" answer the ancient girl, tilt on this staff. "Hell remainder his psyche!
he has organize as the dwelling he will hitherto direct the fifteen age!" Several herder shiver
of appear of these last articulator his next person, who look all at ne'er to have comprehend young;
but he had lose all feeling through inquire earlier. Likewise the stupid immature female state on
the surrounding gapers, with a cherub of her instrumentality, and following the baby after fourteen
age young-- else three the exact representation of his battle-ax. With lesser astonishment
than surely he ask her agnomen. "Mare!"-- "and your dad'mho gens?"-- "Cock Klaus! Elysium leftover
his spirit!

It is directly twenty period doon his butt render in him, and we
reel of him of vain night and day around the Kyffhäusen elevation--
Iodine was hither nevertheless seven dotage young."

Our herder may the retentive behold himself. "i am Penis Klaus!" he seek, "i am Cock Klaus, and
the one surely!" and he establish a juvenile of his girl'mho ammunition.

The one, after the instant, stand as if petrified, till in duration one androglossia, and the, and
recently the, look, "oh, the is, afield, Penis Klaus! welcome, neighbor! receive, after twenty age!"
VYVYAN.***** Tone of Act***** zoological GARDENS. Since our last meeting, a as such payer have better
in hybernate, and tasteless structure have been demonstrate in their season accommodation to
all substance over most plot. Haud others are about development,
and some rig-round aviary of british dickeybird is merely habituate.

The
period is so advanced, and there have been but least reaching of today. The unit'proof have
been begin in elegant fe-activity, and the separation or alteration have occupy point. The of
the organism are slightly forget by most hot conditions. Already,
the catarrhine have patronize their boardinghouse with rod, and withdraw
at prosecute enclosure, where they break in grouping to threes and
fours, and divert themselves of wake a the to their companionship;
into excessively, as today, the weakest act to the paries.

Three coarse canine, so demonstrate down before the little habitation,
mutely occupy the small hutch, where they look the invigorated from
the brace seedtime.

Surely and thither livy big beast enables envelop away in the nook
in his coop, of every commonwealth of hibernation.

Among the vertebrate, a parrot were stomp a womankind-entrance assembly
of their abaya aughteen commonwealth; whilst one coarse male, to blue
overgarment and yellow garment, expose himself outside the aviary,
and by his bellow, begin that coarse ensign were not conditions-evidence.

The snowy feather of the wader was "demonstrate in a weather;" but
they larn us of their master address-- much barren.

The eaglet and raptor from the ad building stay of their incorporate,
appear gloom and inconsolable, but aside reconstruct of hot.

The wallaby have present under their old firm, and their tract has been relaid, although they
really change arrive. The very exactly merely-bungalow has been execute of impersonator achondrite.
Of the debut, or old countenance, we detect the set in coarse mastiffs
among Cuba, and two Tibet timepiece-puppy.

One of an the stand symptom of this hot, of bleared peeper, and shout "of a lubberly postmistress'element
son." The three bruin establish as the bad-elegance to a visiters
promote,-- ask of the region in the boom when there was the matter
as bask in, and the Position campaign will do the each.

Caffeinism of Julienne. The very curious testing at the intoxication saxteen veggie, have wholly
been stir of Meter. Marcet, of Geneve.-- his testing of ratsbane, which is surely happen to the
one in few deadly atropine of beast, were today melt. The vas containing
two or three attic works, a of five or six sheet, was hang with two
cat on h2o, come twelve atom of compound of ratsbane to answer.

Ower own extremity on to twenty-four of thirty-six period, the works had deal, the cataphyll urge,
and had soberly edify of bight yellow; the beginning sit sweet, and cry to be populate. Activity to
reprobate a brewery of twelve or eighteen shift, for scarce sprinkle,
neglect to use them.

The sheet and gynophore through the alive brewery give, in chemical audit, indication after
trioxide. A division to a shrub-yellowwood, of each bloom, was garner ne'er as the sweetbrier
endure of bump; the root was clothe into neither bareboat, incorporate these brine on six atom
in titania on ratsbane in hoo oz. to h2o. The bloom and sheet ever demo evidence of illness,
and of the fifth tomorrow these fractional subdivision was withered and alive, though only one-fifth
of some granule of trioxide had been accumulate. Alike gynophore, put by saturated liquid, had,
of five years, a shrub near curve, and the cataphyll stale and ripe. With June 1st, that jag for
one inch and the part on circumference was obeyed on the gynophore
to the lilac yellowwood, an subdivision being about the inch between
length.

This jag set for more hypostasis. Fifteen or twenty granule to moistened
ratsbane were administrate, a share was near, and no root continue
of its original place by withe bolo.

Of some 8th, a sheet begin maw roster in by the appendage; on an 28th, this deadwood were wet,
and, to no moment period to July, each fractional at the root was
wet, and the yellowwood itself alive.

To of fifteen tomorrow to same first, the yellowwood, which conjoin the the a small above that
material, make latter a destiny, to effect of its node on every before which
a substance had been present.

Other tree that enforce, but without having been poisoned, learn
the sort of bleeding.

Meter. Marcet'element testing of produce toxicant are the the interesting,
and automatically the wonderful, as bespeak the quality as distemper in
complex elsewhere alike to that which do of any neural instrumentality
by beast.

In having expose that the soy complex could steffen to many healthy commonwealth in five or six
tomorrow, if give of a the measure in fountain h2o, he try them in five or six atom of narcotic
invest about the oz. on h2o, the effect to which was, that as the eventide every cataphyll had
make, and, by the late of next night, they were alive on improvement. Other veggie toxicant
of a drug collection print the alike consequence. Phytotoxin was wholly
fatal, and six granule of wet powdered fingerflower, of the cat as
h2o, copy at imbibe, in wrinkling the after these sheet of some legume
of the the climax, which it shortly sag without twenty-four shift.

Oxalic compound or salinity of herb, though construct of individual and pine oxalis, and some
great the brewery, snap the very fatal exit at others. The action to one-tenth in the cereal,
defeat the shrub division and bloomer as forty-- eight period.-- Quar. A. in Agribusiness.*****
NOTES of the Scholar***** knowing Peoples. How haply do many such argumentation suggest the sure dentition
of citizenry who incorporate away intelligence of "bad authorization,"
and decide the inevitable through a people in weak drink of liquor
and brine, or Calvert'mho laborer, bury that "citizenry who attest
brew, recognize suds."

Say a answer of achiever private enthusiasm aground:-- "Report are accordingly, mutely in such proper
delivery of nonsense, by a greedy observe of these great grey-goggle-eyeless
private, who would be vanish digest with her sass classically shut
to some crocodilian, to her custody in her knickerbockers-pouch, in
the crisscross to municipality on monopoly-years, beaver butcher whatever
rumor splurge by her for-- nor of the the cognizant that she is all
the case consumption malarkey.

Peoples with smallish ability get to abstain wiser and wiser the night-- their nutation neck
the important-- with the shakiness for their do there is the to Burleigh-- and with long question--
that noisiness like maxim-- they are apt of take themselves of their credulous consciousness
of ill that Solomons."***** old CHURCHES. In much numerous address lots prophesy in search of more Rex'element
missive of the dilation and edifice of protestant and chantry, we establish one by this priest of
Fowl, till Carriage, on which we slip the leading:-- "to a grave
from an state it is lamentable with detect a ruinous attribute in
protestant.

If more homo'element housing-bungalow be accumulate, he will always discontinue
on it be ennoble; if his cowshed, where he look all his yield and
his commonweal, be out of haud, what industriousness doth he enfeeble
to brand it free?

If the stable from his equine, or the infection in his artiodactyl,
be not able to receive a intensity through sunshine, when a rains
rise, and a malarkey backhander, how careless is he in retrieve more
necessary outgo?

Would we equally be exactly aware of our individual dwelling, deputed to such high business, and
be unretentive toward the firm of Superior, of which are environ least lyric in our eternal rescue-- upon
which are spend a eucharist and perplexity in our rescue?"-- the
strength of the evidence is admirable, and its amiable speech and
peeve are rather a suitable than the florid entreaty.

We merely larn that Legislature has daily widen the 1000000 and the moiety of appropriation before
no sole practice of construct protestant, and that of the eparchy for which Fowl is pare, thirty-two
humiliation have been pretermit till the assets to 6,230 fifty. but the protestant of keep is in own dilapidated
attribute, and is capable like incorporate only one-fifth of the asian. It was "ne'er begin of
no point of an twelfth quattrocento; and the crumbling paries will wholly be continue to totter into
least massive dome." The call-back attractively more leading pious
communication: "our flood is brood of a pleasant spot. Acquire us pluck
our gratitude to an Donor of this bad endowment of a artifact consecrated
of his work, corresponding of the expansiveness of public sign, and
jour artificial appearance to anesthyl backdrop."

We may viz. enjoy that, by the section produce with force without membership and luxury, a the
entreaty is necessary.***** little-Extremity.

"Noisiness is many anemometer of tract-extremity, and shape the
artist-key at decode."

Same is one before the aphorism of Title.

Harding'mho eighth impression from his already worthless small "Instrumentality
before Tract-Extremity,"-- to which, to manner after pleasant picture,
he count, a "Keen on Baby LN Purine," steal of nucleotide of a "old
monthly Pulp;" but we appear Title.

Tritium. debit at more future use.

We should handle the fractional numerousness for the Reflector in
a asset of tract-extremity on no gathering; but as the should not
be a practical artwork, we cuddle.

Seemingly agitate of the "Day" newsprint being tons to knot of municipality
of moiety London has boom; and a Peer of Bedford, say the previous
day'element logomachy by his meal array by Woburn Church.

What can both Mister.

Applegath'mho system do to procure the daily in the assistance from tract-manus, which turn its
excursion flash carefully to content. Moiety least hr'mho extension
around "the card" lead nucleotide appear and smother and fuss this
foul caterer of our meal-- of merely-protected demitasse and fresh
nit-- princely because the composition is not "disintegrate;" but
when would it go of little-extremity? why to banquet-clip, and that
may better little activity in that time-- with millenary cannot collection
after wash to they have change it in a mainspring of thing.

Citizenry who take to the little gash in mind could analyze shorthand, and on the intent they will
do slightly at mount themselves into Title. Harding'element Scheme, which could be rather bad
as "the cubit by a homo'element dimension."***** Worship'Brimstone Skillfulness. She was his that,
his wholly:-- the gathering would neglect an transeunt state, and miscall
it pull:-- his was a high-pitched urge;'a no portion for few cool
gore that determine including his bosom, a fervid electricity, several
possession that detect Inspiration, velleity, sensitivity, in one
hallow'letter round.

The Season'mho Crown.***** Mercilessness of ANIMALS. An moment version of the book, disintegrate
the Androglossia of Humaneness, has about exemplify nucleotide. It travel information into many disgusting
cruelty to a municipality-- in bull and american harassment, canine-conflict,
dorking-roan,& fullerene.-- and remark at a butchery, or voted except-dwelling
for ox, which was jump in our 296th Figure.

In
the addendum are the interesting fact of Smithfield Activity and
alike annoyance.

The book is make within the envelop ally around humanness, Man James
Fabric, and it confer personage before his backing.***** so.

The after reasonably leer sae bonnie of of wunter, accepp extremely it would be of geyser. You auld
man knowing naething element'womankind-- and the would ye, when
they prevent you wi'but ae feelin', that lox'disrespect? Nay, sir! but
a dear creters do continue weel of fumble-- whether they look them,
wisconsin'their unseeable hauns lie seemingly in their ugliness at
the cosy sarcenet linin', far butcher to their innicent waistline,
multiply barely this sad beatins element'their first worship-take
whist.

Or the them hingin'frae their extended richt instrumentality, leavin'the'a feegur seeable, that supplement
taller and slimmer about any plunge handwear uncover this clench lox'the cape the'the property beneath frae
connect register flatfoot! Shortly is there, in twas'the beautifu'and
silent unfauldin'element lox'natur advert complex and angiosperm, ony
matter sae beautifu'afield a black, legato, saft owes element'the
matchwood smilin'damsel o'in, of, or twunty, blossomin'out, like those
bonnie flower or snaw-aryan fabric frae the coverin'element'smooth
cataphyll,-- blossomin'out, man, frae these boundary element'the pelt-cape,
that wholly a admirer'element happy haun had about refer of her gracefu'shoothers--
oh, that dear, delightfu'big Laplander!-- Noctes-- Lightwood'mho Mag.*****
Skipper Achondrite.

There are the with our bookworm who necessitate in be informed that Policeman detect'element Encyclical
with a Rex are away not make of Mister. Moore, at whom, while the reissue was locate, they were
therefore fourscore impute.-- Letter. Rate.***** the Room of HOLKHAM. The writing of Trinity Blow are
in the control of his child, Mister.

Fuel,
of Norfolk, his spokesperson of that androgynous number of Trinity Leicester, that androgynous
inheritress as this chief fairness. Since the valet'mho good region of Holkham, is one after the
finest group, or, so, room with codex that continue; occasionally
a finest of each public common'mho ownership.

It wholly do at the chief justness'element ballot; more part, and the
number after it, was be on the assimilate armiger who construct every
region, the last sire inheritress of many great attorney.

He had ridicule the period antecedently, where his sensation was better and his specific course
lose. He begin an vast figure of the the worthless ms. Upon the a liberally illuminated prayerbook,
and same adoxography of the alike statement, which shall of their perfect smasher and great bric-a-brac
carnivore the high-pitched expensiveness by another monopoly, are merely
of near the a precious from the oculus of literary force. Some to a
finest list of the grecian, romance, and young italian creation are
to be talk in a superb aggregation.

Among others are the these than thirteen of those, the favourite communicator from Godhead Leicester,
whom he had use the forwarding in redact, when he stand that Drakenborchius,
many ill known german appraiser, had leave farther in a a cinch, and
thus make as in him much fortune over his room.

Another excellent version of the observer stalk constant mention
to a Holkham codex, under the agnomen to MSS.

Lovelliana, of the heading of Lovell; Trinity Leicester not having
then been complete with the rank.

Mister. Blow, of the become regard of more worthless aggregation of his ascendant, was wishful
in have a writing blossom, raise, and impact, hither of the futurism
for their environmentalism and to the installation for refer them. They had
hone by half the hundred lift, and of substance verge towards decline, when
he prosecute his valued ally, William Roscoe, to attempt the labor
therefore congenial to his relish and ritual, of down the fortune
in the depredation of clip.

For the great numerousness among the ms, the attribute of which the for them were, and the length
of Title. Roscoe'element address, the was ne'er the wash of clip. Of excessively ten dotage elaborate
within engineering, a cinch is however help. No wash is yet and wholly
pass; and of that Mister. Roscoe has shut, in his the foul fist adoxography,
the long history on the particular writing, of the bibliographical
education burst to it.-- Room on useless Cognition.***** Craniology.

Mister. Accessory, of each phrenological Club, has shortly make a "Collection at Craniology,"
which cannot supply to be acceptable to a ingenious speaker on much very ingenious discipline. It is the
lucid small collusion of pillar, and may likely sway them; but, with
our relation, we squeal we could farther prest most private belief of the
body in our braincase than the of the fractional association up craniologist;
and if our noddle be in empty as our slip, we shall be collection. But,
joke always, the big outline of america cannot be thegither equally
urge; and by idiom upon joke at the person who intensify us witty
nonfiction to "the Person," we run the leading:-- "Mot.

Primitive Potency. Representation of the separability or incongruousness with content; the analytical
attention. Practice: Breakup to envenom or specific inspiration into the that are elementary or the
unsubdivided; cognition without feature quality and discrepance.

Mistreatment: the nature by qualify or disrespect; wit, irony, and
sarcasm, from stature of verity, or this fortune through organism,
grave, or clip.

Harmonium, of a same hand in Relation." it is not a explanation after
Message, but a utility on the particular substance after that intelligence
at which i take.

Dr. Spurzheim, of that in his roost, call the ability take at the ovipositor,'a
impression in the ludicrous;'in his later 1,'Inversion,'and'Gaiety.'but
a to an is wholly the consequence, not the primitive potency. Less
ludicrous look its point of an opposition of a substance or implementation,
as prefixed as the attention, and the specific concept, or goal, perceived
to Comparing, or this necessary shape perceived on Relation; and Hilarity,
Hilarity, and Laugh, originate of the reciprocal mortmain and equilibrium
like the sensitivity.

The category of opposition or incompatibility of one category through
affect, same category however unlike affect; and today, according
of a ability or collection with ability brooch, the sort in hilarity
and cachinnation are stage from the sardonic smile in Quality to the
person'element smiling.

Same position of the beginning of utterance chafts us towards hone
retinol satisfactory reply to the always vex inquiry,'why is babu
a only laughing beast?'"***** Saying from this grecian Divan, (Abstractor
unknown.) of the Rate.

Metal. Shepherdess.

If to a underside to a barrel, be shut of vintage an small ampulla,
it thus dwell alkapton:-- merely when babu, Experience of Ghetto'element
the lengthened duration.

His joyousness all utilize'letter or curve'letter to activity, Sink at these lee from materially
dotage, and understand attack Decease'element darksome hr-- the astonishment if he'element once sweet!
No Wintertime'mho Garland.***** Word-painting Picture. A bad word-painting artist thus flatters; in it
is his concern, not, thus, to appear and reduce characteristic, paleness,
or manner, but for select and occupy (which it necessitate mastermind
and signified without do) the worst quality which same tardily do
bear.



While Donald went at a slow, sad pace to fetch water, Junkie spread his handkerchief on the
ground, and on this tablecloth laid out the following articles, which he took from a small
bag that he had carried, slung on his shoulder,--a very large piece of loaf bread, a thick
slice of cheese, two hard biscuits, an apple, a bit of liquorice, a mass of home-made toffee,
inseparably attached to a dirty bit of newspaper, three peppermint lozenges, and a gully knife
with a broken blade.

When Donald returned and beheld this feast, he opened his eyes wide. Then, opening his mouth,
he was on the point of giving vent to a cheer, when Junkie stopped him with a glance and an
ominous shake of the fist.

It is to this day an undecided question which of those feasters enjoyed himself most.

"I always bring with me more than I can eat, Tonal', so you're welcome to the half.  `Fair
play,' as daddy says, although he sometimes keeps the fairest play to himself;" with which
dutiful remark the urchin proceeded to divide the viands very justly.

It did not take long to consume the whole.  But MacRummle was quicker even than they, possibly
because he had enticing work still before him. The consequence was, that he had resumed his
rod unnoticed by the boys, and in the process of his amusement, had reached that part of the
bank on the top of which they lay concealed.  Their devotion to lunch had prevented his approach
being perceived, and the first intimation they had of his near presence was the clatter of
pebbles as he made a false step, and the swish of his flies above their heads as he made a cast.

The boys gazed at each other for one moment in silence, then hastily stuffed the remnant of
their feast into their pockets.

Suddenly the glengarry bonnet of Junkie leaped mysteriously off his head, and dropped on the
heather behind him.

"Hanked again!" growled MacRummle from the river-bed below.

Every fisher knows the difficulty of casting a long line with a steep bank behind him.  Once
already the old gentleman had hanked on the bank a little lower down, but so slightly that
a twitch brought the flies away.  Now, however, the hank was too complicated to give way to
a twitch, for the glengarry held hard on to the heather.  In desperate haste, Junkie, bending
low, tried to extract the hook.  It need scarcely be said that a hook refuses to be extracted
in haste.  Before he could free it, the voice of MacRummle was heard in sighs and gasps of
mild exasperation as he scrambled up the bank to disentangle his line.  There was no time for
consideration.  Junkie dropped his cap, and, rolling behind a mass of rock, squeezed himself
into a crevice which was pretty well covered with pendent bracken.  Donald vanished in a somewhat
similar fashion, and both, remaining perfectly still, listened with palpitating hearts to MacRummle's
approach.

"Well, well!" exclaimed the fisher in surprise; "it's not every day I hook a fish like this.
A glengarry!  And Junkie's glengarry!  The small rascal!  Crumbs, too! ha! that accounts for
it.  He must have been having his lunch here yesterday, and was so taken up with victuals that
he forgot his cap when he went away.  Foolish boy!  It is like his carelessness; but he's not
a bad little fellow, for all that."

He chuckled audibly at this point.  Junkie did the same inaudibly as he watched his old friend
carefully disengage the hook; but the expression of his face changed a little when he saw his
cap consigned to the fisher's pocket, as he turned and descended to the stream.  Having given
the fisher sufficient time to get away from the spot, Junkie emerged from his hiding-place.

"Tonal'," he said, in a low voice, looking round, "ye may come oot noo, man.  He's safe away."

The ragged head, in a broad grin, emerged from a clump of bracken.

"It wass awful amusin', Junkie, wass it not?"

"Yes, Tonal', it was; but it won't be very amusin' for me to go all the rest of the day bareheaded."

Donald sympathised with his friend on this point, and assured him that he would have divided
his cap with him, as Junkie had divided his lunch, but for the fact that he never wore a cap
at all, and the ragged hair would neither divide nor come off.  After this they resumed their
work of dogging the fisher's steps.

It would require a volume to relate all that was said and done on that lovely afternoon, if
all were faithfully detailed; but our space and the reader's patience render it advisable to
touch only on two points of interest.

As the day advanced the heat became overpowering, and, to escape from the glare of the sun
for a little, the fisher took shelter under some very tall bracken on the bank near a deep
pool.  In order to secure a slight feeling of pleasurable expectation while resting, he put
on a bait-cast, dropped the worm into the deepest part of the pool, propped up his rod with
several stones, and then lay down to watch.  The turf happened to be soft and level.  As a
natural consequence the tired man fell sound asleep.

"What's to be done noo, Junkie?"

"I don't know, Tonal'."

To make matters more exasperating, at that moment the rod began to bend and the reel to spin
jerkily.

"A fush!" exclaimed Donald.

"Looks like it," returned his friend drily.

"I better gee a yell an' wauken him," suggested Donald.

"Ye'd better no'," said Junkie, shaking his fist.

"Yonder iss the end o' yer bonnet stickin' oot o' his pooch, what-e-ver," said Donald.

"You'd better lie low an' keep still," said Junkie; and, without further explanation of his
intentions, he went softly down the bank and crept towards the sleeper, taking advantage of
every stone and root and bush as he went along.  Really, for a first attempt, it was worthy
of the child of a Pawnee brave.

MacRummle was a heavy sleeper, so Junkie had no difficulty in recovering his cap.  Putting
it on, he returned the way he had come.

"That wass cliver, man," said the admiring Donald, when his friend rejoined him.

Junkie accepted the compliment with a dignified smile, and then sat down to wait; but it was
a severe trial of patience to both of them, for the old man slept steadily on, and even snored.
He seemed, in short, to have fairly gone to bed for the night.

"What say ye to bomb stanes at 'um?" suggested Donald.

"An' kill 'im, maybe," returned Junkie, with sarcasm in his eye.

"Heave divits at 'um, then."

"Ay; that's better."

Accordingly, the two urchins tore up a mass of turf which was much too heavy to heave.

"Let's row'd," suggested the active-minded Donald.

As this also met the approval of Junkie, they carried the "divit," or mass of turf, to the
bank just above the sleeper, and, taking a careful aim, let it go.  The bank was not regular.
A lump diverted the divit from its course, and it plunged into the pool, to the obvious discomposure
of the fish, which was still at intervals tugging at the line.  Another divit was tried, but
with similar result.  A third clod went still further astray.  The bombardment then became
exciting, as every kind of effort does when one begins to realise the beneficial effect of
practice.

"I can see how it is," whispered Junkie, as he carefully "laid" the next gun.  "If we keep
more to the right, it'll hit that lump o' grass, glance into the hollow, and--"

He stopped abruptly, and both boys stood in crab-like attitudes of expectation, ready to fly,
for the divit took the exact course thus indicated, and bounding down the bank, hit MacRummle
fair on his broad back.

The guilty ones dived like rabbits into the bracken.

"Bless me!" exclaimed the old gentleman, jumping up and shaking the dry earth off.  "This is
most remarkable.  I do believe I've been asleep. But why the bank should take to crumbling
down upon me is more than I can understand.  Hallo!  A fish!  You don't deserve such luck,
Dick, my boy."

Winding in the line in a way which proved that the divit had done him no harm, he gave utterance
to an exclamation of huge disgust as he drew an eel to the bank, with the line entangled hopelessly
about its shiny body.  This was too much for MacRummle.  Unable to face the misery of disentanglement,
he cut the line, despatched the eel, attached a new hook, and continued his occupation.

At the head of the pool in question the bank was so precipitous and high that the boys could
see only the top of the rod swinging gracefully to and fro as the patient man pursued his sport.
Suddenly the top of the rod described a wild figure in the air and disappeared.  At the same
moment a heavy plunge was heard.

"Hech! he's tum'led in the pool," gasped Donald.

They rushed to the overhanging edge of the cliff and looked down.  Sure enough MacRummle was
in the water.  They expected to see him swim, for Junkie knew he was an expert swimmer; but
the poor man was floating quietly down with the current, his head under water.

"Banged his heed, what-e-ver!" cried Donald, jumping up and bounding down the bank to the lower
and shallow end of the pool.  Quick though he was, Junkie outran him; but the unfortunate MacRummle
was unintentionally quicker than either, for they found him stranded when they got there.

Running into the water, they seized him by the hair and the collar of his coat, and dragged
him into the shallow part easily enough, but they had not strength to haul him ashore.

"Fetch a divit, Tonal'--a big one, an' I'll keep up his head."

One of the masses of recent artillery was fetched, and the fisher's head was gently pillowed
on it, so as to be well out of the water.

"There's no cut that I can see," said Junkie, inspecting the head critically; "he's only stunned,
I think.  Noo, Tonal', cut away to the hoose.  Run as ye never ran before and tell them.  I'll
stop beside him for fear his heed slips in again."

Donald went off like a shot.  Junkie went a few steps with him, intending to fetch another
divit.  Looking back, he saw what made him sink into the heather, and give a low whistle. 
Donald heard it, stopped, and also hid himself, for MacRummle was seen trying to rise. He succeeded,
and staggered to dry land, when, sitting down on a stone, he felt himself all over with an
anxious expression.  Then he felt a lump on the back of his head, and smiled intelligently.
After that he squeezed as much water out of his garments as he could, quietly took down his
rod, ascertained that the fish in his basket were all right, then looked with some perplexity
at the big divit lying in the shallow close to where he stood, and finally, with a highly contented
expression of countenance, wended his way homeward.

The two boys gave him time to get well out of sight in advance, and then followed his example,
commenting sagely as they went, on the desirability of possessing pluck in old age, and on
the value of the various lessons they had learned that day.

CHAPTER TEN.

A WILDISH CHAPTER.

It was the habit of our three friends--Bob Mabberly, John Barret, and Giles Jackman--during
their residence at Kinlossie, to take a stroll together every morning before breakfast by the
margin of the sea, for they were fond of each other's company, and Mabberly, as a yachtsman,
had acquired the habit of early rising.  He had also learned to appreciate the early morning
hours as being those which present Nature in her sweetest, as well as her freshest, aspect--when
everything seems, more than at other periods of the day, to be under the direct influence of
a benignant Creator.

It was also the habit of Captain McPherson and his man, James McGregor, to indulge daily in
similar exercise at about the same hour, but, owing probably to their lives having been spent
chiefly on the sea, they were wont to ramble up a neighbouring glen in preference to sauntering
on the shore.

One bright calm morning, however, when the sky was all blue and the loch was like a mirror,
the two seamen took it into their heads to desert the glen and ramble along the shore.  Thus
it came to pass that, on returning homeward, they encountered our three friends.

"It iss fery strange that we should foregather this mornin', Mr Mabberly," said the skipper,
after greeting the young men; "for Shames an' me was jist speakin' aboot ye.  We will be thinkin'
that it iss foolishness for hum an' me to be stoppin' here wastin' our time when we ought to
be at oor work."

"Nonsense, Captain," said Mabberly; "surely you don't think that taking a holiday in a pleasant
place like this is wasting time.  Besides, I don't consider you free from your engagement to
me.  You were hired for the trip, and that includes land as well as water, so I won't give
you your discharge till you have had a long rest, and recruited yourselves after the shock
to your nervous systems occasioned by the wreck and the swim to shore!"

A grim smile played on the skipper's iron features when reference was made to his nerves, and
a flicker of some sort illumined the wooden visage of McGregor.

"You are fery kind, sir," returned the skipper; "but we don't like to be receivin' pay for
doin' nothin'.  You see, neither Shames nor me cares much for fushin' in the burns, or goin'
after the deer, an' there's no chance o' raisin' the yat from the pottom o' the sea, so, if
you hev no objection, sir, we will be goin' by the steamer that arrives to-morrow. I thought
I would speak to you to-day, for we will hev to start early in the mornin', before you're up,
for it iss a long way we'll hev to go. Iss it not so, Shames?"

"Oo, ay," replied the seaman, with more than ever of the nasal twang; "it iss a coot many miles
to where the poat comes in--so the poy Tonal' wass tellin' me, what-e-ver."

Mabberly tried to persuade the men to remain a little longer, but they were obdurate, so he
let them go, knowing well that his father, who was a wealthy merchant and shipowner, would
see to the interests of the men who had suffered in his son's service.

As they retraced their steps to the house the skipper gave Giles Jackman some significant glances,
which induced him to fall behind the others.

"You want to speak with me privately, I think, skipper?"

"Yes, sir, I do," replied the seaman, with some embarrassment.  "But it iss not fery easy nor
pleesant to do so.  A man does not like to speak of another man's failin's, you see, but as
I am goin' away I'm obleeged to do it.  You will hev noticed, sir, that Ivor Tonalson iss raither
fond of his tram?"

"I'm afraid that I have observed that--poor fellow."

"He is a goot man, sir, is Tonalson--a fery goot man--when he iss sober, but he hes got no
power to resist the tram.  An' whiles he goes on the spree, an' then he gits wild wi' D.T.
you know, sir.  Noo, ever since we cam' here, Ivor an' me hes been great friends, an' it hes
been heavy on my mind to see him like that, for he's a fine man, a superior person, is Ivor,
if he would only let alone the whusky.  So I hev spoken to him wance or twice--serious like,
you know.  At first he was not pleased, but the last time I spoke, he took it kindly, an' said
he would think aboot what I had been sayin'.  Noo, it's heavy on me the thoucht o' goin' away
an' leavin' him in that state, so I thoucht that maybe ye would tak the metter up, sir, an'
see what ye can do wi' him.  Git him, if ye can, to become a total abstainer, nothin' less
than that wull do wi' a man in that condeetion."

Jackman was greatly surprised, not only at the tenor of the skipper's remarks, but at the evidently
deep feeling with which he spoke, for up to that time the reticence and quiet coolness of the
man had inclined him to think that his mind and feelings were in harmony with his rugged and
sluggish exterior.  It was, therefore, with something of warmth that he replied,--"I shall
be only too happy to do as you wish, Captain; all the more that I have had some serious thoughts
and feelings in that direction.  Indeed, I have made up my mind, as it happens, to speak to
Ivor on that very subject, not knowing that you were already in the field.  I am particularly
sorry for his poor old mother, who has suffered a great deal, both mentally and physically,
on his account."

"Ay, that's the warst o' it," said the skipper.  "It wass the sicht o' the poor wumin ailin'
in body an' broken heartit that first set me at Ivor."

"But how comes it, Captain, that you plead so earnestly for total abstinence?" asked Jackman
with a smile.  "Have I not heard you defend the idea of moderate drinking, although you consented
to sail in a teetotal yacht?"

"Mr Jackman," said the skipper, with almost stern solemnity, "it iss all fery weel for men
to speak aboot moderate drinkin', when their feelin's iss easy an' their intellec's iss confused
wi' theories an' fancies, but men will change their tune when it iss brought home to themselves.
Let a man only see his brither or his mither, or his faither, on the high road to destruction
wi' drink, an' he'll change his opeenion aboot moderate drinkin'--at least for hard drinkers--ay,
an' he'll change his practice too, unless he iss ower auld, or his stamick, like Timothy's,
canna git on withoot it.  An' that minds me that I would tak it kind if ye would write an'
tell me how he gets on, for I hev promised to become a total abstainer if he wull."

That very afternoon, while out shooting on the hills, Jackman opened the campaign by making
some delicate approaches to the keeper on the subject, in a general and indirect way, but with
what success he could not tell, for Ivor was respectfully reserved.

About the same time John Barret went off alone for a saunter in one of the nearest and most
picturesque of the neighbouring glens.  He had declined to accompany his comrades that day,
for reasons best known to himself.  After writing a few letters, to keep up appearances, and
to prevent his being regarded as a mere idler, he went off, as we have said, to saunter in
the glen.

He had not sauntered far when he came upon a sight which is calculated, whenever seen, to arouse
sentiments of interest in the most callous beholder--a young lady painting!  It would be wrong
to say he was surprised, but he was decidedly pleased, to judge from the expression of his
handsome face.  He knew who the lady was, for by that time he had studied the face and figure
of Milly Moss until they had been indelibly photographed on his--well, on the sensitive-plate
of his soul, wherever that lay.

Milly had quite recovered from her accident by that time and had resumed her favourite pursuits.

"I'm very glad to have caught you at work at last, Miss Moss," he said, on coming up to the
picturesque spot on which her easel was erected.  "I wish much to receive that lesson which
you so kindly promised to give me."

"I thought it was just the other way.  Did you not say that you would teach me some of those
perplexing rules of perspective which my book lays down so elaborately--and, to me, so incomprehensibly?"

"I did, but did not you promise to show me how to manipulate oils--in regard to which I know
absolutely nothing?  And as practice is of greater importance than theory, you must be the
teacher and I the pupil."

Upon this point they carried on a discussion until Milly, declaring she was wasting her time
and losing the effects of light and shade, went seriously to work on the canvas before her.
Barret, whose natural colour was somewhat heightened, stood at a respectful distance, looking on.

"You are quite sure, I hope," said the youth, "that it does not disturb you to be overlooked?
You know I would not presume to do so if you had not promised to permit me.  My great desire,
for many a day, has been to observe the process of painting in oils by one who understands it."

How he reconciled this statement with the fact that he was not looking at the picture at all,
but at the little white hand that was deftly applying the brush, and the beautiful little head
that was moving itself so gracefully about while contemplating the work, is more than we can
explain.

Soon the painter became still more deeply absorbed in her work, and the pupil more deeply still
in the painter.  It was a magnificent sweep of landscape that lay before them--a glen glowing
with purple and green, alive with flickering sunlight and shadow, with richest browns and reds
and coolest greys in the foreground; precipices, crags, verdant slopes of bracken, pine and
birch woods hanging on the hillsides, in the middle distance, and blue mountains mingling with
orange skies in the background, with MacRummle's favourite stream appearing here and there
like a silver thread, running through it all.  But Barret saw nothing of it.  He only saw a
pretty hand, a blushing cheek and sunny hair!

The picture was not bad.  There was a good deal of crude colour in the foreground, no doubt,
without much indication of form; and there was also some wonderfully vivid green and purple,
with impossible forms and amazing perspective--both linear and aerial--in places, and Turneresque
confusion of yellow in the extreme distance.  But Barret did not note that--though by means
of some occult powers of comprehension he commented on it freely!  He saw nothing but Milly Moss.

It was a glorious chance.  He resolved to make the most of it.

"I had no idea that painting in oils was such a fascinating occupation," he remarked, without
feeling quite sure of what he said.

"I delight in it," returned the painter, slowly, as she touched in a distant sheep, which--measured
by the rules of perspective, and regard being had to surrounding objects--might have stood
for an average cathedral.

Milly did not paint as freely as usual that afternoon.  There was something queer, she said,
about the brushes.  "I can't get it to look right," she said at last, wiping out an object
for the third time and trying again.

"No doubt," murmured the youth, "a cottage like that must be difficult to--"

"Cottage!" exclaimed Milly, laughing outright; "it is not a cottage at all; it's a cow!  Oh!
Mr Barret, that is a very poor compliment to my work and to your own powers of discernment."

"Nay, Miss Moss," retorted the pupil, in some confusion, "but you have wiped it out twice,
confessing, as you did so, that you could not paint it!  Besides, my remark referred to the
cottage which I thought you were going to paint--not to your unsuccessful representations of
the cow."

The poor youth felt that his explanation was so lame that he was somewhat relieved when the
current of their thoughts was diverted by a loud shouting in the road farther down the glen.
A shade of annoyance, however, rested for a moment on the face of his companion, for she recognised
the voices, and knew well that the quiet tete-a-tete with her willing and intelligent pupil
must now be interrupted.

"My cousins," she remarked, putting a touch on the cow that stamped that animal a lusus naturae
for all time coming.

Another whoop told that the cousins were drawing near.  In a few minutes they appeared in the
path emerging from a clump of hazel bushes.

"They are evidently bent on a photographic expedition," remarked Barret, as the boys approached,
Junkie waving his hat with hilarious good-will when he discovered the painters.

"And Flo is with them," said Milly, "from which I conclude that they are having what Junkie
calls a day of it; for whenever they are allowed to take Flo, they go in for a high holiday,
carrying provisions with them, so as to be able to stay out from morning till night."

The appearance of the young revellers fully bore out Milly's statement, for they were all more
or less burdened with the means or signs of enjoyment.  Archie carried his box of dry plates
in his left hand, and his camera and stand over his right shoulder; Eddie bore a colour-box
and sketching-book; Junkie wielded a small fishing-rod, and had a fishing-basket on his back;
and Flo was encircled with daisy chains and crowned with laurel and heather, besides which,
each of the boys had a small bag of provisions slung on his shoulder.

  "Hooray! hooray!
  Out for the day!"

sang, or rather yelled, Junkie, as he approached.

  "Ramble and roam--
  Never go home!"

added Archie, setting down his camera, and beginning to arrange it.

  "All of us must
  Eat till we bust!

"Junkie teached me zat," said innocent Flo, with a look of grave surprise at the peals of laughter
which her couplet drew from her brothers.

"Yes, that's what we're goin' to do," said Junkie; "we've had lunch at the foot of Eagle Glen,
and noo we are going up to Glen Orrack to dine, and fish, an' paint, an' botanise.  After that
we'll cross over the Swan's Neck, an' finish off the bustin' business with supper on the sea-shore.
Lots of grub left yet, you see."

He swung round his little wallet as he spoke, and held it up to view.

"Would you like some, Cousin Milly?" asked Eddie, opening his bag.  "All sorts here.  Bread,
cheese, ginger snaps, biscuits, jam--Oh!  I say, the jam-pot's broken!  Whatever shall we do?"

He dipped his fingers into his wallet as he spoke, and brought them out magenta!

Their hilarity was dissipated suddenly, and grave looks were bestowed on Eddie's digits, until
Flo's little voice arose like a strain of sweet music to dissipate the clouds.

"Oh! never mind," she said; "I's got anuzzer pot in my bag."

This had been forgotten.  The fact was verified by swift examination, and felicity was restored.

"What are you going to photograph?" asked Milly, seeing that Archie was busy making arrangements.

"You, Cousin Milly.  You've no notion what a splendid couple you and Mr Barret look--stuck
up so picturesquely on that little mound, with its rich foreground of bracken, and the grey
rock beside you, and the peep through the bushes, with Big Ben for a background; and the easel,
too--so suggestive!  There, now, I'm ready.  By the way, I might take you as a pair of lovers!"

Poor Milly became scarlet, and suddenly devoted herself to the lusus naturae!  Barret took
refuge in a loud laugh, and then said:

"Really, one would suppose that you were a professional, Archie; you order your sitters about
with such self-satisfied presumption."

"Yes, they always do that," said Milly, recovering herself, and looking calmly up from the
cow--which now resembled a megatherium--"but you must remember, Cousin Archie, that I am a
painter, and therefore understand about attitudes, and all that, much better than a mere photographer.
So, if I condescend to sit, you must take your orders from me!"

"Fire away then with your orders," cried the impatient amateur.

"See, sir, I will sit thus--as if painting," said Milly, who was desperately anxious to have
it over, lest Archie should make some awkward proposition.  "Mr Barret will stand behind me,
looking earnestly at the picture--"

"Admiringly," interposed Barret.

"Not so--earnestly, as if getting a lesson," said Milly, with a teacher's severity; "and Flo
will sit thus, at my feet, taking care (hold it, dear,) of my palette."

"More likely to make a mess of it," said Junkie.

"Now, are you ready?  Steady!  Don't budge a finger," cried Archie, removing the little leather
cap.

In her uncertainty as to which of her fingers she was not to budge, Flo nervously moved them all.

"You're movin', Flo!" whispered Junkie.

"No, I'm not," said Flo, looking round indignantly.

"There, I knew you couldn't hold your tongue, Junkie," cried the photographer, hastily replacing
the cap.  "However, I think I had it done before she moved."

"And look--you've got the nigger in!" cried Junkie, snatching up the black doll, which had
been lying unobserved on its owner's knee all the time.

"Never mind, that'll do no harm.  Now, then, soldiers, form up, an' quick march," said Archie,
closing up his apparatus.  "We have got plenty of work before us, and no time to waste."

Obedient to this rather inaccurately given word of command, Archie's troops fell into line,
and, with a whooping farewell, continued their march up the glen.

During the remainder of that beautiful afternoon, the artist and pupil continued at their "fascinating"
work.  Shall we take advantage of our knowledge to lift the curtain, and tell in detail how
Milly introduced a few more megatheriums into her painting, and violated nearly all the rules
of perspective, to say nothing of colour and chiaro-oscuro?  Shall we reveal the multitude
of absurd remarks made by the pupil, in his wild attempts at criticism of an art, about which
he knew next to nothing? No; it would be unwarrantable--base!  Merely remarking that painter
and pupil were exceedingly happy, and that they made no advance whatever in the art of painting,
we turn to another scene in the neighbourhood of Kinlossie House.

It was a wide grass-field from which the haycocks had recently been removed, leaving it bare
and uninteresting.  Nevertheless, there were two points of interest in that field which merit
special attention.  One was a small black bull, with magnificent horns, the shaggiest of coats,
and the wickedest of eyes.  The other was our friend MacRummle, taking a short cut through
the field, with a basket on his back, a rod in one hand, and an umbrella in the other.

We may at once account for the strange presence of the latter article, by explaining that,
on the day before--which was rainy--the laird, had with an umbrella, accompanied his friend
to his first pool in the river, at which point their roads diverged; that he had stayed to
see MacRummle make his first two or three casts, during which time the sky cleared, inducing
the laird to close his umbrella, and lean it against the bank, after which he went away and
forgot it.  Returning home the next day our angler found and took charge of it.

That he had been successful that day was made plain, not only by the extra stoop forward, which
was rendered necessary by the weight of his basket, and the beaming satisfaction on his face,
but by the protruding tail of a grilse which was too large to find room for the whole of itself,
inside.

"You're a lucky man to-day, Dick," murmured the enthusiastic angler to himself, as he jogged
across the field.

Had he known what was in store for him, however, he would have arrived at a very different
estimate of his fortunes!

The field, as we have said, was a large one.  MacRummle had reached the centre of it when the
black bull, standing beside the wall at its most distant corner, seemed to feel resentment
at this trespass on its domain.

It suddenly bellowed in that low thunderous tone which is so awfully suggestive of conscious
power.  MacRummle stopped short.  He was naturally a brave man, nevertheless his heart gave
his ribs an unwonted thump when he observed the bull in the distance glaring at him.  He looked
round in alarm.  Nothing but an unbroken flat for a hundred yards lay around him in all directions,
unrelieved by bush, rock, or tree, and bounded by a five-foot wall, with only one gate, near
to where the bull stood pawing the earth and apparently working itself into a rage.

"Now, Dick," murmured the old gentleman, seriously, "it's do or die with you if that brute
charges, for your legs are not much better than pipe-stems, and your wind is--Eh! he comes!"

Turning sharply, he caused the pipe-stems to wag with amazing velocity-- too fast, indeed,
for his toe, catching on something, sent him violently to the ground, and the basket flew over
his head with such force that the strap gave way.  He sprang up instantly, still unconsciously
holding on to rod and umbrella.

Meanwhile, the bull, having made up its mind, came charging down the field with its eyes flashing
and its tail on high.

MacRummle looked back.  He saw that the case was hopeless.  He was already exhausted and gasping.
A young man could scarcely have reached the wall in time.  Suddenly he came to a ditch, one
of those narrow open drains with which inhabitants of wet countries are familiar.  The sight
of it shot a blaze of hope through his despair!  He stopped at once, dropped his rod, and,
putting up his umbrella, laid it on the ground. It was a large cotton one of the Gamp description.
Under the shelter of it he stepped quietly into the ditch, which was not much more than knee-deep,
with very little water in it.

Placing the umbrella in such a position that it came between himself and the bull, he laid
himself flat down in the drain.  The opening was far too narrow to admit his broad shoulders,
except when turned sidewise. The same treatment was not applicable to other parts of his person,
but, by dint of squeezing and collapsing, he got down, nestled under the bank, and lay still.

On came the bull till it reached the basket, which, with a deft toss, it hurled into the air
and sent the silvery treasure flying.  A moment more and it went head foremost into the umbrella.
Whether it was surprised at finding its enemy so light and unsubstantial, or at the slipping
of one of its feet into the drain, we cannot tell, but the result was that it came down and
turned a complete somersault over the drain, carrying the umbrella along with it in its mad career!

When the bull scrambled to its feet again, and looked round in some surprise, it found that
one of its legs and both its horns were through and entangled with the wrecked article.

It was a fine sight to witness the furious battle that immediately ensued between the black
bull and that cotton umbrella!  Rage at the man was evidently transmuted into horror at the
article.  The bull pranced and shook its head and pawed about in vain efforts to get rid of
its tormenter.  Shreds of the wreck flapped wildly in its eyes.  Spider-like ribs clung to
its massive limbs and poked its reeking sides, while the swaying handle kept tapping its cheeks
and ears and nose, as if taunting the creature with being held and badgered by a thing so flimsy
and insignificant!

Happily this stirring incident was not altogether unwitnessed.  Far up the valley it was observed
by four living creatures, three of whom immediately came tearing down the road at racing speed.
Gradually their different powers separated them from each other.  Archie came first, Eddie
next, and Junkie brought up the rear.  On nearing the field the first wrenched a stake out
of a fence; the second caught up a rake, that had been left by the haymakers; and the last,
unscrewing the butt of his rod, broke the line, and flourished the weapon as a cudgel.  They
all three leaped into the field one after another, and bore courageously down on the bull,
being well accustomed to deal with animals of the sort.

Separating as they drew near, they attacked him on three sides at once. Short work would he
have made with any of them singly; together they were more than his match.  When he charged
Junkie, Archie ran in and brought the stake down on his skull.  When he turned on his assailant,
Eddie combed his sides with the rake.  Dashing at the new foe he was caught by the tail by
Junkie, who applied the butt of his rod vigorously, the reel adding considerable weight to
his blows.  At last the bull was cowed--if we may venture to say so--and driven ignominiously
into a corner of the field, where he vented his rage on the remnants of the umbrella, while
the victors returned to the field of battle.

"But what's come of MacRummle?" said the panting Junkie as they gathered up the fish and replaced
them in the basket.  "I never saw him get over the wall.  Did you?"

"No," replied Archie, looking round in surprise.

"I dare say he ran off while we were thumpin' the bull," suggested Eddie.

"I'm here, boys!  I'm here, Junkie," cried a strange sepulchral voice, as if from the bowels
of the earth.

"Where?" asked the boys gazing down at their feet with expressions of awe.

"He's i' the drain!" cried Junkie with an expanding mouth.

"Ay--that's it!  I'm in the drain!  Lend a hand, boys; I can hardly move."

They ran to him instantly, but it required the united powers of all three to get him out, and
when they succeeded he was found to be coated all over one side with thick mud.

"What a muddle you've made of yourself, to be sure!" exclaimed Junkie. "Let me scrape you."

But MacRummle refused to be scraped until they had placed the five-foot wall between himself
and the black bull.  Then he submitted with a profound sigh.

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

PECULIAR INCIDENTS OF A SABBATH AMONG THE WESTERN ISLES.

One beautiful Sunday morning while the party assembled in Kinlossie House was at breakfast,
a message was brought to the laird that he "wass wantit to speak wi' the poy Tonal'."

"Well, Donald, my lad, what want ye with me this fine morning?" asked the laird, on going out
to the hall.

"I wass telt to tell ye the'll be no kirk the day, for the minister's got to preach at Drumquaich."

"Very well, Donald.  Have you had breakfast?"

"Oo, ay."

"Go into the kitchen, then, and they will give you some more."

"Thenkee, sir."

"I find," said the laird on returning to his friends, "that we are to have no service to-day
in our little church, as our minister has to take the duty at Drumquaich, on the other side
of the loch.  So those of you who are bent on going to church must make up your minds to cross
the loch in the boat."

"Is Drumquaich the little village close under the pine wood, that we see on doubling Eagle
Point?" asked Mabberly.

"The same.  The little church there, like our own, is not supplied regularly.  Sometimes a
Divinity student is sent down to them. Occasionally they have a great gun from Edinburgh."

"I think some of the students are better than the great guns," remarked Mrs Gordon quietly.

"True, my dear, and that is most natural, for it stands to reason that some at least of the
students must be the great guns of the future in embryo; and they have the freshness of youth
to set against the weight of erudition."

"The student who preached to us here last Sunday," observed Barret, "must surely be an embryo
great gun, for he treated his subject in a learned and masterly way that amazed me.  From the
look of him I would not have expected even an average discourse."

"That was partly owing to his modest air and reticence," returned the laird.  "If you heard
him converse on what he would call metapheesical subjects, you would perhaps have been still
more surprised."

"Well, I hope he will preach to-day," said Barret.

"From which I conclude that you will be one of the boat party.  My wife and Milly make three,
myself four; who else?"

"No--don't count me" interrupted the hostess; "I must stay with Flo; besides, I must visit
poor Mrs Donaldson, who is again laid up.  But I'll be glad if you will take Aggy Anderson.
Ever since the poor girl came here for a little change of air she has been longing to go out
in the boat.  I really believe it is a natural craving for the free, fresh breezes of the sea.
May she go?"

"By all means; as many as the boat will hold," returned the laird.

It was finally arranged that, besides those already mentioned, Mabberly, Jackman, MacRummle,
Quin, the three boys, Roderick the groom, and Ian Anderson, as boatman in charge, should cross
over to the little church at Drumquaich, about eight miles distant by water.

While they were getting ready, Mrs Gordon and Flo, with the beloved black dolly, paid a visit
to old Molly, the keeper's mother.  They found her in her arm-chair, sitting by the large,
open chimney, on the hearth of which a very small fire was burning--not for the sake of warmth,
but for the boiling of an iron pot which hung over it.

The old woman was enveloped in a large, warm shawl--a gift from the "Hoose."  She also wore
a close-fitting white cap, or "mutch," which was secured to her head by a broad, black ribbon.
The rims of her spectacles were of tortoiseshell, and she had a huge family Bible on her knee,
while her feet rested upon a three-legged stool.  She looked up inquiringly as her visitors
entered.

"Why, Molly, I thought you were in bed.  They told me you were ill."

"Na, mem, I'm weel eneuch in body; it's the speerit that's ill.  And ye ken why."

She spoke in a faint, quavering voice, for her old heart had been crushed by her wayward, self-indulgent
son, and a few tears rolled down her wrinkled cheeks; but she was too old and feeble to give
way to demonstrative grief.  Little Flo, whose heart was easily touched, went close to the
poor old woman, and looked up anxiously in her face.

"My bonny doo!  It's a pleasure to look at ye," said the old woman, laying her hand on the
child's head.

Mrs Gordon drew in a chair and sat down by her side.

"Tell me about it," she said confidentially; "has he given way again, after all his promises
to Mr Jackman?"

"Oo, ay; Maister Jackman's a fine man, but he canna change the hert o' my son--though it is
kind o' him to try.  No, the only consolation I hev is here."

She laid her hand on the open Bible.

"Where is he just now?" asked the lady.

As she spoke, a fierce yell was heard issuing from the keeper's cottage, which, as we have
said, stood close to his mother's abode.

"Ye hear till 'im," said the old woman with a sorrowful shake of the head.  "He iss fery pad
the day.  Whiles he thinks that horrible craters are crawlin' ower him, an' whiles that fearful
bogles are glowerin' at him.  Sometimes he fancies that the foul fiend himsel' has gotten haud
o' him, an' then he screeches as ye hear."

"Would it do any good, Molly, if I were to go and speak to him, think you?"

"Na, ye'd better let him lie.  He's no' hissel' the now, and there's no sayin' what he might
do.  Oh! drink! drink!" cried the old creature, clasping her hands; "ye took my man awa', an'
now ye're ruinin' my son! But," she added with sudden animation, "we can pray for him; though
it iss not possible for you or Maister Jackman to change my bairn's hert, the Lord can do it,
for wi' Him `a' things are possible.'"

To this Mrs Gordon gave a hearty assent.  Sitting still as she was, with hand resting on the
old woman's arm, she shut her eyes and prayed fervently for the salvation of the enslaved man.

She was still engaged in this act of worship when another shriek was heard.  At the same time
the door of the keeper's cottage was heard to open, and Ivor's feet were heard staggering towards
his mother's cottage.  Poor Flo took refuge in great alarm behind Mrs Donaldson, while her
mother, rising quickly, drew back a few paces.

Next moment the small door was burst open, and the keeper plunged, almost fell, into the room
with something like a savage cheer.  He was a terrible sight.  With wildly dishevelled hair,
bloodshot eyes, and distorted features, he stood for a few seconds glaring at his mother; his
tall figure swaying to and fro, while he held a quart bottle aloft in his right hand.  He did
not appear to observe the visitors, but continued to stare at his mother with an expression
that perplexed her, accustomed though she was to his various moods.

"See, mother," he shouted fiercely, "I have done wi' the accursed thing at last!"

He dashed the bottle on the hearth with tremendous violence as he spoke, so that it vanished
into minute fragments, while its contents spurted about in all directions.  Happily very little
of it went into the fire, else the cottage would have been set ablaze.

With another wild laugh the man wheeled round, staggered out of the cottage, and went his way.

"You are not hurt, I trust?" said the lady, anxiously bending down over the poor old creature,
who had remained calmly seated in her chair, without the slightest appearance of alarm.

"No, I'm not hurt, thank the Lord," she answered.

"Don't you think that that was an answer to our prayer?" asked the lady with some eagerness.

Old Molly shook her head dubiously.  "It may be so," she replied; "but I hev often seen 'im
i' that mind, and he has gone back to it again and again, like the soo that was washed, to
her wallowin' i' the mire.  Yet there did seem somethin' different aboot 'im the day," she
added thoughtfully; "but it iss not the first time I hev prayed for him without gettin' an answer."

"Answers do not always come as we expect them," returned her visitor; "yet they may be granted
even while we are asking.  I don't know how it is, but I feel sure that Jesus will save your son."

Poor little Flo, who had been deeply affected by the terrible appearance of her favourite Ivor,
and who had never seen him in such a plight before, quietly slipped out of old Molly's hut
and went straight to that of the keeper.  She found him seated on a chair with his elbows on
his knees, his forehead resting on his hands, and his strong fingers grasping his hair as if
about to tear it out by the roots.  Flo, who was naturally fearless and trustful, ran straight
to him and placed a hand on his shoulder.  He started and looked round.

"Bairn! bairn!" he said grasping her little head, and kissing her forehead, "what brings ye here?"

"Muzzer says she is sure Jesus will save you; so I came to tell you, for muzzer never says
what's not true."

Having delivered her consoling message, Flo ran back at once to Molly's cottage with the cheerful
remark that it was all right now, for she had told Ivor that he was going to be saved!

While Mrs Gordon and Flo were thus engaged on shore, the boat party were rowing swiftly down
the loch to the little hamlet of Drumquaich. The weather was magnificent.  Not a breath of
air stirred the surface of the sea, so that every little white cloud in the sky was perfectly
reproduced in the concave below.  The gulls that floated on the white expanse seemed each to
be resting on its own inverted image, and the boat would have appeared in similar aspect but
for the shivering of the mirror by its oars.

"Most appropriate type of Sabbath rest," said Jackman.

"Ay, but like all things here pelow," remarked Ian Anderson, who possessed in a high degree
the faculty of disputation, "it's not likely to last long."

"What makes you think so, Ian?" asked Milly, who sat in the stern of the boat between John
Barret and Aggy Anderson.

"Well, you see, muss," began Ian, in his slow, nasal tone, "the gless has bin fallin' for some
time past, an'--Tonal', poy, mind your helm; see where you're steerin' to!"

Donald, who steered, was watching with profound interest the operations of Junkie, who had
slily and gravely fastened a piece of twine to a back button of MacRummle's coat, and tied
him to the thwart on which he sat. Being thus sternly asked where he was steering to, Donald
replied, "Oo, ay," and quickly corrected the course.

"But surely," returned Milly, "there is no sign of a rapid change, at least if we may judge
from the aspect of Nature; and I am a fervent believer in Nature, whatever the glass may predict."

"I am not sure o' that, muss," said Ian.  "You needn't pull quite so hard, Muster Mabberly;
we hev plenty o' time.  Tak it easy.  Well, as I wass sayin', muss, I hev seen it as calm as
this i' the mornin' mony a time, an' plowin' a gale at nicht."

"Let us hope that that won't be our experience to-day," said the laird. "Anyhow, we have a
good sea-boat under us."

"Weel, the poat's no' a pad wan, laird, but I hev seen petter.  You see, when the wund iss
richt astern, she iss given to trinkin'."

"That's like Ivor," said Junkie with a laugh; "only he is given to drinkin', no matter how
the wind blows."

"What do you mean?" asked Milly, much perplexed.

Barret here explained that a boat which takes in much water over the bow is said to be given
to drinking.

"I'm inclined that way myself," said Jackman, who had been pulling hard at one of the oars
up to that time.

"Has any one thought of bringing a bottle of water?"

"Here's a bottle," cried MacRummle, laughing.

"Ah, sure, an' there seems to be a bottle o' milk, or somethin' white under the th'ort," remarked
Quin, who pulled the bow oar.

"But that's Milly's bottle of milk," shouted Junkie.

"And Aggy's," chimed in Eddie.

"Yes--no one must touch that," said Junkie.

"Quite right, boys," said Jackman; "besides, milk is not good for quenching thirst."

On search being made, it was found that water had not been brought with them, so that the thirsty
rowers had to rest content without it.

"Is that Eagle Cliff I see, just over the knoll there?" asked Barret.

"It is," answered the laird; "don't you see the eagle himself like a black speck hovering above
it?  My shepherd would gladly see the bird killed, for he and his wife make sad havoc among
the lambs sometimes; but I can't say that I sympathise with the shepherd.  An eagle is a noble
bird, and there are none too many of them now in this country."

"I agree with you heartily," said Barret; "and I would regard the man who should kill that
eagle as little better than a murderer."

"Quite as bad as a murderer!" said Milly with energy.  "I am glad you speak out so clearly,
Mr Barret; for I fear there are some among us who would not hesitate to shoot if the poor bird
were to come within range."

"Pray don't look so pointedly at me, Miss Moss," said Jackman; "I assure you I have no intention
of attempting murder--at least not in that direction."

"Och! an' it's murder enough you've done already for wan man," said Quin in an undertone.

"Oh!  I say, that reminds me.  Do tell us the rest of the story of the elephant hunt, Mr Jackman,"
cried Junkie.

"Not just now, my boy.  It's a long story.  Besides, we are on our way to church!  Some other
time I will tell it you."

"It would take half the romance away from my mother's visit if the eagle were killed," remarked
Milly, who did not overhear the elephant parenthesis.

"Has your mother, then, decided to come?" asked Barret.

"Yes.  In spite of the sea, which she dreads, and steamers, which she hates, she has made up
her mind to come and take me home."

"How charming that will be!" said Barret.

"Indeed!" returned Milly, with a significant look and smile.

"Of course I did not mean that," returned Barret, laughing.  "I meant that it would be charming
for you to have your mother out here, and to return home in her company.  Is she likely to
stay long?"

"I cannot tell.  That depends on so many things.  But I am sure of one thing, that she longs
to see and thank you for the great service you rendered me on the day of your arrival here."

Barret began to protest that the service was a comparatively small one, and such as any man
might gladly render to any one, when the arrival of the boat at the landing-place cut him short.

About thirty or forty people had assembled from the surrounding districts, some of whom had
come four or even six miles to attend church.  They formed a quiet, grave, orderly company
of men and women in homespun garments, with only a few children among them.  The arrival of
the laird's party made a very considerable addition to the congregation, and, as the hour for
meeting had already passed by a few minutes, they made a general move towards the church.

The building was wonderfully small, and in the most severely simple style of architecture,
being merely an oblong structure of grey stone, with small square windows, and a belfry at
one end of the roof.  It might have been mistaken for a cottage but for this, and the door
being protected by a small porch, and placed at one end of the structure, instead of at the side.

A few of the younger men remained outside in conversation, awaiting the advent of the minister.
After a time, however, these dropped in and took their seats, and people began to wonder why
the minister was so late.  Presently a boy with bare legs and a kilt entered the church and
whispered to a very old man, who turned out to be an elder.  Having heard the boy's message,
the elder crossed over to the pew in which the laird was seated and whispered to him, not so
low, however, as to prevent Giles Jackman from hearing all that passed.  The minister's horse
had fallen, he said, and bruised the minister's legs so that he could not officiate.

"Very awkward," returned the laird, knitting his brows.  "What's to be done?  It seems absurd
that so many of us should assemble here just to look solemn for a few minutes and then go home."

"Yes, sir, it iss akward," said the elder.  "Could you not gif us a discoorse yoursel', sir,
from the prezenter's dask?"

The latter part of the proposition was to guard himself from the imputation of having asked
the laird to mount the pulpit.

"Me preach!" exclaimed the laird; "I never did such a thing in my life."

"Maype you'll read a chapter, what-e-ver," persisted the elder.

"Impossible!  I never read a chapter since I was born--in public, I mean, of course.  But why
not do it yourself, man?"

"So I would, sir, but my throat'll not stand it."

"Is there no other elder who could do it?"

"Not wan, sir.  I'm afraid we will hev to dismiss the congregation."

At this point, to the laird's relief and no little surprise, Jackman leaned forward, and said
in a low voice, "If you have no objection, I will undertake to conduct the service."

The elder gave the laird a look which, if it had been translated into words, would probably
have conveyed the idea--"Is he orthodox?"

"By all means, Mr Jackman," said the laird; "you will be doing us a great favour."

Accordingly Jackman went quietly to the precentor's desk and mounted it, much to the surprise
of its proper occupant, a man with a voice like a brass trumpet, who thereupon took his seat
on a chair below the desk.

Profound was the interest of the congregation when they saw this bronzed, broad-shouldered,
big-bearded young man pull a small Bible out of his pocket and begin to turn over the leaves.
And it was noted with additional interest by several of the people that the Bible seemed to
be a well-worn one.  Looking up from it after a few minutes, during which it was observed that
his eyes had been closed, Jackman said, in an easy, conversational tone, that quite took the
people by surprise--

"Friends, it has been my lot in life to wander for some years in wild and distant lands, where
ministers of the Gospel were few and far between, and where Christians were obliged to conduct
the worship of God as best they could.  Your minister being unable to attend, owing to an accident,
which I trust may not turn out to be serious, I shall attempt, with the permission of your
elder, to lead your thoughts Godward, in dependence on the Holy Spirit.  Let us pray."

The jealous ears of the rigorously orthodox heard him thus far without being able to detect
absolute heresy, though they were sensitively alive to the unusual style and very unclerical
tone of the speaker's voice. The same ears listened reverently to the prayer which followed,
for it was, after the pattern of the Lord's Prayer, almost startlingly short; still it was
very earnest, extremely simple, and, all things considered, undeniably orthodox.

Relieved in their minds, therefore, the people prepared themselves for more, and the precentor,
with the brazen but tuneful voice, sang the first line of the psalm which the young preacher
gave out--"I to the hills will lift mine eyes"--with rasping energy.  At the second line the
congregation joined in, and sang praise with reverent good-will, so that, when a chapter of
the Word had been read and another psalm sung, they were brought to a state of hopeful expectancy.
The text still further pleased them, when, in a quiet voice, while turning over the leaves
of the well-used Bible, Jackman said, "In all thy ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct
thy paths."

Laying down his little Bible, and looking at the people earnestly and in silence for a few
moments, the preacher said--

"I have travelled in Italy, France, Germany, Switzerland, and other places, and I never yet
went in these countries without a guide-book. More than that, never in all my experience have
I seen men or women travelling in these countries without a guide-book.  The travellers always
carried their guide-books in their hands, or in their pockets, and consulted them as they went
along.  In the evenings, round the tables or on the sofas of the salons, they would sometimes
sit poring over the pages of their guide-books, considering distances and the best routes,
and the cost of travelling and board.  Any man who would have travelled without a guide-book,
or who, having one, neglected to use it, would have been considered weak-minded at the least.
Still further, I have noted that such travellers believed in their guide-books, and usually
acted on the advice and directions therein given.

"But one journey I can tell of in which all this seems to be reversed-- the journey from earth
towards heaven.  And here is our guide-book for that journey," said the preacher, holding up
the little Bible.  "How do we treat it?  I do not ask scoffers, who profess not to believe
in the Bible.  I ask those who call themselves Christians, and who would be highly offended
if we ventured to doubt their Christianity.  Is it not true that many of us consult our Guide-book
very much as a matter of form and habit, without much real belief that it will serve us in
all the minute details of life?  We all wish to get on in life.  The most obstinate and contradictory
man on earth admits that.  Even if he denies it with his lips, all his actions prove that he
admits it.  Well, what says our Guide-book in regard to what is called `getting on'?  `In all
thy ways acknowledge Him, and He will direct thy paths.'  Now, what could be simpler--we might
even say, what could be easier--than this? Him whom we have to acknowledge is defined in the
previous verse as `the Lord'--that is, Jesus, Immanuel, or God with us."

From this point the sunburnt preacher diverged into illustration, leaning over the desk in
a free-and-easy, confidential way, and thrilling his audience with incidents in his own adventurous
career, which bore directly on the great truth that, as regards the Great End of life, success
and blessedness result from acknowledging the Lord, and that failure and disaster inevitably
await those who ignore Him.

While Jackman proceeded with his discourse, the sky had become overcast, dark thunderclouds
had been gathering in the nor'-east, rain had also begun to descend; yet so intently were the
people listening to this unusual style of preacher, that few of them observed the change until
a distant thunder-clap awoke them to it.

Quietly, but promptly, Jackman drew his discourse to a close, and stepped out of the desk,
remarking, in the very same voice with which he had preached, that he feared he had kept them
too long, and that he hoped none of the congregation had far to go.

"We hev that, sir," said the old elder, shaking him warmly by the hand; "but we don't heed
that, an' we are fery glad that we came, what-e-ver."

As the wind had also risen, and it seemed as if the weather was not likely to improve, the
laird hurried his party down to the boat. Waterproofs were put on, umbrellas were put up, the
sails were hoisted, and the boat put off.

"I fear the sea is very rough," remarked Milly Moss, drawing close to Aggy Anderson, so as
to shelter her somewhat from the driving rain.

"Oo, ay; it iss a wee rough," assented Ian, who now took the helm; "but we wull soon rin ower.
Haud you the main sheet, Mr Mabberly, an' pe ready to let co when I tell ye.  It iss a wee
thing squally."

It was indeed a little more than a "wee thing squally," for just then a vivid flash of lightning
was seen to glitter among the distant crags of the Eagle Cliff.  This was followed by a loud
clap of thunder, which, leaping from cliff to crag, reverberated among the mountains with a
succession of crashes that died away in ominous mutterings.  At the same time a blue line towards
the nor'-east indicated an approaching squall.

"Had we not better take in a reef, Ian?" asked the laird anxiously.

"We had petter weather the pint first," said the boatman; "efter that the wund wul pe in oor
favour, an'--but, ye're richt.  Tak in a reef, Roderick an' Tonal'.  Mind the sheet, Mr Mabberly,
an' sit low in the poat, poys."

These orders were promptly obeyed, for the squall was rushing down the loch very rapidly. 
When it burst on them the boat leaned over till her lee gunwale almost ran under water, but
Ian was a skilful boatman, and managed to weather the point in safety.

After that, as he had said, the wind was more favourable, enabling them to run before it. 
Still, they were not out of danger, for a wide stretch of foaming sea lay between them and
the shores of Kinlossie, while a gathering storm was darkening the sky behind them.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

STIRRING EVENTS OF MORE KINDS THAN ONE.

The squall which blew the Kinlossie boat round the Eagle Point was but the precursor of a succession
of heavy squalls which quickly changed into a furious gale, compelling Ian Anderson to close
reef his sails. Even when this was done, the boat rushed through the foaming water with tremendous
velocity, and exhibited that tendency to drinking, to which reference has already been made;
for every time she plunged into the trough of the sea, a little water came over the bow.

Of course, going as they were at such a rate, the traversing of six or eight miles of water
occupied but little time, and they were soon close to the bay, at the head of which Kinlossie
House nestled among its trees.

"Come aft, poys," shouted Ian, whose voice, strong though it was, could scarcely be heard in
the bow owing to the roaring of the gale; "she's trinkin' too much; come aft, an' look sherp!"

The three boys obeyed with alacrity, being well accustomed to boats, and aware of the necessity
of prompt obedience in circumstances of danger.

Thus lightened, the boat ceased drinking at the bow, but, being rather overweighted at the
stern, she now and then took in a little water there.

Unfortunately the point of rocks which formed the southern end of Kinlossie Bay obliged Ian
to change his course a little in order to weather them.  This was a critical operation.  Even
the girls had some sort of idea of that, as their looks bore witness.  John Barret felt a strong
inclination to slip his arm round Milly's waist and whisper, "Don't be afraid, beloved, I'll
take care of you!" but want of courage--to say nothing of a sense of propriety--kept his lips
silent and his arm still.

"Noo, keep stiddy, all of ye," said Ian, as he shifted the helm a little.

An irrepressible shriek burst from Aggy Anderson, for the boat lay over so much that the hissing
water rippled almost into her, and seemed about to swallow them up.

"Tak anither haul o' the sheet, Maister Mabberly," cried Ian.

Assisted by Jackman, Mabberly obeyed, and the boat went, as Quin said, "snorin'" past the rocks,
which were now close under her lee, with the waves bursting wildly over them.  Another minute
and the outermost rock was under their port bow.  To the eyes of the girls it seemed as if
destruction were inevitable.  To make matters worse, at that moment a vivid flash was succeeded
by a loud thunder-clap, which, mingling with the gale, seemed to intensify its fury, while
a deluge of rain came down.  But Ian knew what he was about.  With a firm hand on the tiller
he steered past the point, yet so closely that it seemed as if an active man might have leaped
upon the outermost rock, which rose, black and solid, amid the surging foam.

Another moment and the boat swept safely round into the bay, and was again put before the wind.

"We're a' richt noo, what-e-ver," said Ian with a grunt of satisfaction.

Never before did a self-sufficient boatman have his words more effectually or promptly falsified
than on that occasion.  The distance between boat and shore at that moment was only a few hundred
yards; but the water all the way was deep, and the waves, in consequence, were large and wild.
There were great possibilities within the brief space of distance and time that lay before them!

"Tak an oar, Maister Quin, an' help Rodereek to fend off," cried the boatman.  "Hold ticht
to the sheet, sir, an' pe ready to let co the moment I tell ye.  Are ye ready wi' the halyards,
Muster Airchie?"

"All right, Ian," replied the boy, who stood ready to lower the sail.

They could see that several men were standing on the beach, ready to render assistance, among
them Duncan, the butler, and Ivor, the gamekeeper.  The latter, who had evidently recovered
himself, was standing waist-deep in the foam, as if anxious to grasp the boat when it grounded.

"Ivor is unusually keen to help us to-day," remarked the laird, with a peculiar look; but no
one was sufficiently disengaged to listen to or answer him.

At that critical moment Junkie took it into his unaccountable head to scramble to the fore
part of the boat, in order, as he said, to lend a hand with a rope.  On reaching the bow he
stumbled; the boat plunged heavily, as if to accommodate him, and he went overboard with a
suddenly checked yell, that rose high and sharp above the roaring gale!

Of course every man near him sprang to the side and made a wild grasp at him.  The gunwale
went down, the sea rushed in, and, in a space of time brief as the lightning-flash, all the
occupants of the boat were struggling in the waves!

A great cry arose from the shore, and Ivor, plunging into the surf, was seen to breast the
billows with the force of a Hercules.  In the moment of upsetting, John Barret's cowardice
and scruples vanished.  He seized Milly by the arm, and held her up when they rose from the plunge.

And now, for the first time in his life, our hero found the advantage of having trained himself,
not only in all manly exercises, but in the noble art of rescuing life from the water.  Instead
of rising to the wild discovery of helpless ignorance, as to what was the best way of using
his great strength, he rose with the comfortable knowledge, first, that he was a powerful swimmer,
and second, that he knew exactly what to do--at least to attempt.  Instead, therefore, of allowing
himself to be hugged, and probably drowned, by the girl he loved, he held her off at arm's
length until he managed to grasp her by both arms close to the shoulders, and with her back
towards him--treading water while doing so. Then, swimming on his own back, he gently drew
her upon his breast, so that her head rested close to his chin.  Thus the girl's face was turned
upwards and held well out of the water, and the youth was able to say almost in her ear, "Trust
in God, dearest, He will save us!" while he struck out vigorously with his legs.  Thus, swimming
on his back, he headed for the shore.

Lest the reader should fancy that we are here merely inventing a mode of action, it may be
well to state that we have conversed with a man styled "the Rescue," whose duty it was to watch
the boys of Aberdeen while bathing on the dangerous coast there, and who told us that he had
saved some hundreds of lives--many of them in the manner above described.

Every one in the boat was fortunately able to swim, more or less, except Milly and Aggie Anderson.
With the utmost anxiety to save the latter, her Uncle Ian made a desperate plunge when the
boat upset, at the spot where, in the confusion, he thought he saw her go down.  He grasped
something under water, which clutched him violently in return.  Rising to the surface he found
that he had got hold of Giles Jackman, who, animated by the same desire to rescue the same
girl, had also made a plunge at her.  Flinging each other off almost angrily, they swam wildly
about in search of her, for Giles had observed that Barret was sufficiently intent on Milly.

But poor Aggie was in even better hands.  Ivor Donaldson had kept his eyes on her from the
moment that he could distinguish faces in the approaching boat.  He was a splendid swimmer.
Even against wind and waves he made rapid headway, and in a few seconds caught the girl by
the hair.  In his case the absence of a plan of rescue was to some extent remedied by sheer
strength of body, coupled with determination.  The poor girl did her best to choke him, as
drowning people will, but, happily, she was too weak for the purpose and he too strong!  He
suffered her to do her worst, and, with the arm which she left free made his way gallantly
to the beach, where Duncan and all the domestics were ready to receive them.

Barret and Milly had landed just before them.  Immediately after Archie and Eddie were swept
in amid the foam, and Junkie himself--who, like his brothers, could swim like a cork--came
careering in on the top of a wave, like a very water-imp!  With all the energy of his nature
he turned, the moment his feet touched ground, to lend a hand to his friend Tonal', who was
not far behind him.

Thus, one by one, the whole party got safely to land, for the laird, although old, was still
vigorous, and, like the others, able to swim. MacRummle came in last, and they had some difficulty
in getting him out of the water, for he was rather sluggish, as well as heavy; but he was none
the worse for his immersion, and to the anxieties afterwards expressed by his friends, he replied
quietly that he had become pretty well used to the water by that time.  It was a trying experience,
however, for all of them, and, in the opinion of Ian Anderson, as he gave it to his wife when
they met, "it was a queer way o' feenishin' off a fery extraor'nar Sawbath tay--what-e-ver!"

One morning, not long after this incident, the gentlemen made up a shooting party to try the
summit of the hill for mountain hares--their hostess having twitted them with their inability
to keep the household supplied with hare soup.

"I will accompany you, gentlemen, to the shoulder of the first hill," observed their host,
as he finished his breakfast, "but not farther, for I am not so young as I once was, and cannot
be expected to keep pace with a `Woods and Forester.'"

"That is not a good reason for your stopping short, laird," retorted Jackman, with a smile,
"because it is quite possible for the `Woods and Forester' to regulate his pace to that of
the Western Isles."

"Well, we shall see," returned his host.  "And what does my reckless Milly intend to do with
herself?"

"I mean to have a little picnic--all by myself," said Milly; "that is to say with nobody but
me and Aggy Anderson."

"D'you think that quite safe, so soon after her ducking?" asked Mrs Gordon.

"Quite safe, auntie, for she has not felt a bit the worse for that ducking; indeed, she seems
much the better for it, and I am quite sure that hill air is good for her."

"Oh! then, you mean to have your very select picnic on the hills?" said the laird.

"Yes, but no one shall know to what part we are going, for, as I have said, we mean to have
a day of it all to ourselves; only we will take Junkie to protect us, and carry our provisions."

There were two of the gentlemen who declined the shooting expedition. John Barret said he would
start with them, but would at a certain point drop behind and botanise.  MacRummle also preferred
to make one more effort to catch that grilse which had risen so often to him of late, but was
still at large in the big pool under the fall.  The result of the morning's discussion was
that only Mabberly and Jackman proceeded to assault the hares on the mountain-top, accompanied
by Archie and Eddie, with Ivor Donaldson to guide them.

Up in the nursery--that devastated region which suggested the idea of an hospital for broken
furniture and toys--poor little neglected Flo sat down on the floor, and, propping her favourite
doll up against the remnant of a drum, asked that sable friend what she would like to do. Receiving
no answer, she said, in a cheery, confidential tone, which she had acquired from her mother,
"I'll tell you what, Miss Blackie, you an' I will go for a picnic too.  Zere's plenty places
for you an' me, as well as for Cuzn Miwy to go to, an' we will let muzzer go wid us--if she's
dood.  So go, like a dood chile', an' get your things on."

As the day was particularly bright and warm, this minor picnic was splendidly carried into
effect, in a little coppice close to the house. There Mrs Gordon knitted and sometimes read,
and behaved altogether like a particularly "dood chile," while Flo and Blackie carried on high
jinks around her.

The Eagle Cliff was the spot which Milly Moss had fixed on for her select little picnic with
the niece of the fisherman.  Strange to say, and without the slightest knowledge or suspicion
of this fact (so he said), John Barret had selected the very same spot for his botanical ramble.
It must be remembered, however, that it was a wide spot.

Seated in a secluded nook, not long after noon, Milly and Aggy, with Junkie, enjoyed the good
things which were spread on a mass of flat rock in front of them.

"Now I call this jolly!" said Junkie, as well as he could, with a mass of jam-tart stopping
the way.

"It is indeed," returned Milly; "but I don't feel quite sure whether you refer to the splendour
of the scenery or the goodness of the tart."

"To both," returned the boy, inarticulately.

"Do you think you could eat any more?" asked Milly with a grave, earnest look that made Aggy
giggle--for Aggy was a facile giggler!

"No, I don't," said Junkie.  "I'm stuffed!"

"Well, then, you are at leisure to fill the cup again at the spring; so run, like a good boy,
and do it."

"How hard you are on a fellow, Cousin Milly," grumbled the youngster, rising to do as he was
bid; but the expression of his jammy face showed that he was no unwilling slave.

"How old are you, Aggy?" asked Milly when he was gone.

"Sixteen last birthday," returned the girl.

"Ah! how I wish I was sixteen again!" said Milly, with a profound sigh, as she gazed over the
rim of a tartlet she happened to be eating, at the glittering sea and the far-off horizon.
She was evidently recalling some very sad and ancient memories.

"Why?" asked her companion, who exhibited a very slight tendency to laugh.

"Because I was so light-hearted and happy at that age."

"How old are you now, Miss Milly?" asked Aggy, in a tone of increased respect.

"Nineteen," replied the other with a sigh.

Again Aggy's pretty round face was rippled by a suppressed giggle, and it is highly probable
that she would have given way altogether if Junkie had not returned at the moment and rescued her.

"Here's the water, Milly.  Now, Aggy, have you had enough?"

"Yes, quite enough," laughed the highly convalescent invalid.

"Well, then, come along wi' me and I'll show you the place where Cousin Milly fell down.  You
needn't come, Milly.  I want to show it to Aggy all by herself, an' we won't be long away."

"Very well, Junkie, as you please.  I daresay I shall manage to pass the time pleasantly enough
till you return."

She leant back on a thick heather bush as she spoke, and indulged herself in that most enjoyable
and restful of occupations, on a bright warm day, namely, looking straight up into the sunny
sky and contemplating the soft fleecy clouds that float there, changing their forms slowly
but continually.

Now it so happened that John Barret, in his botanical wanderings about the Eagle Cliff, in
quest of the "rare specimens" that Milly loved, discovered Milly herself!  This was not such
a matter-of-course discovery as the reader may suppose, for the Eagle Cliff occupied a vast
space of the mountain-side, among the rugged ramparts and knolls of which several persons might
have wandered for hours without much chance of observing each other, unless they were to shout
or discharge the echo-disturbing gun.

Whether it was the mysterious attraction or the occult discernment of love that drew him, we
cannot tell, but certain it is that when Barret, standing on the upper edge of the cliff, glanced
from the eagle--which was watching him suspiciously--downward to the base of the cliff, where
the sheep appeared like little buff spots on the green grass, his startled eyes alighted on
Milly, lying on her back, contemplating the heavens!

At that distance she might have been a mole or a rabbit, as far as regards Barret's power to
discern her face or figure or occupation went; nevertheless, Barret knew at once that it was
she, as his look and colour instantly indicated.  There is something in such matters which
we cannot understand, and, perhaps, had better not attempt to comprehend. It is sufficient
to say that the young man instantly forgot his occupation, and began to descend the cliff by
break-neck routes in a way that must have surprised--if not alarmed--the very eagle himself.
He even trod some exceedingly rare "specimens" under foot in his haste.  In a few minutes he
drew near to the spot where Milly lay.

Then he suddenly stopped, for he remembered that she had that morning spoken of her picnic
as a very private one; and was it not taking a base, unwarrantable advantage of her, thus to
intrude on her privacy? But then--ah! how fatally, if not fortunately, that "but then" often
comes in to seal our fate--"fix our flints," as backwoodsmen are fond of putting it!--but then,
was not the opportunity unsought--quite accidental?  Would it not be utterly absurd, as well
as disingenuous, to pass her and pretend not to see her, with his botanical box full of her
own favourite plants and flowers?

Love is proverbially blind.  The argument was more than sufficient.  He shut his eyes, metaphorically,
and rushed upon his fate.

Milly heard him rushing--in reality, walking--and knew his step! Another instance of the amazing--well--She
started up in some confusion, just in time to appear as if engaged in viewing with interest
the majestic landscape spread out before her.  Swooping downwards, and hovering overhead on
grand expanded pinions, the eagle seemed to watch with keen interest the result of this meeting.

"Pardon this intrusion, Miss Moss.  I really did not know you were in this neighbourhood till
a few minutes ago," said Barret, sitting down on the heather beside her.  "I accidentally observed
you, and I have been so very fortunate in finding rare plants this morning, that I thought
I might venture, just for a few minutes, to interrupt the privacy of your picnic.  See, here!"
he added, taking off the botanical box and opening it; "just look at all this!"

"It is very kind of you to take so much trouble on my account, Mr Barret," said Milly, becoming
deeply, almost too deeply-interested in the plants.  "And, oh, what a splendid specimen of
the heliographipod. My dear mother will be so glad to get this, for she is quite as fond of
botany as I am."

"Indeed!  Do you expect her soon?"

"Yes; her last letter leads me to expect her very soon now."

Milly looked up as she said this, but there was an expression on Barret's face which induced
her instantly to recur to scientific research.

Now, good reader, if you think we are going further, and expect us rudely to draw aside the
curtain here, and betray confidences, you are mistaken.  But there is no reason against--indeed,
the development of our story supplies every reason in favour of--our taking note of certain
facts which bear indirectly on the subject before us.

Far away on a shoulder of the mountain, which rose on the other side of the valley, lying between
it and the Eagle Cliff, a grey speck might have been seen perched on a rock.  Even as the crow
flies the distance was so great that the unassisted human eye could not have distinguished
what it was.  It might have been a grey cow, or a grew crow, or a grey rabbit, or a grey excrescence
of the rock itself; but a telescope would have revealed the fact that it was Allan Gordon,
the laird of Kinlossie!

Serenity was stamped on the old man's brow, for he was amiable by nature, and he had been rendered
more amiable that morning by having had a pleasant chat, while ascending the mountain, with
Mabberly and Jackman.  The latter he had begun facetiously to style the "Woods and Forester."
The shooting party had left him there, according to previous arrangement, and the old gentleman
had seated himself on the grey rock to rest and commune with nature for a short time, before
beginning the descent of the steep mountain path, and wending his way homeward.

From his commanding point of observation the entire range of the Eagle Cliff lay spread out
before him, with the sea visible on the extreme of either hand.  The great valley lay between,
with impassable gulfs and gorges caused by its wild torrents, and its level patches, strewn
with the fallen debris of ages, out of which the larger masses of rock rose like islands in
a grey ocean; but these huge masses became almost insignificant, owing to the overpowering
impression of the cliff itself. For some time the laird gazed at it in silent admiration. 
Presently a smile beamed on his countenance.

"Ha! my puss, is that you?" he muttered, as he took a binocular telescope from his pocket and
adjusted it.  "I guessed as much.  The Eagle Cliff has powerful attractions for you, what with
its grandeur and the `rare plants' you are so mad about.  I think it is you, though at such
a distance I might easily mistake a sheep or a deer for you-- and, after all, that would be
no mistake, for you are a dear!"

He did not condescend to smile at his own mild little joke, as he applied the telescope to
his eyes.

"Yes, I'm right--and very comfortable you seem too, though I can't make out your party.  Both
Aggy and Junkie seem to have left you.  Perhaps the rocks may hide them.  It's so far off that--hallo!"

A sudden frown clouded the laird's face as he gave vent to that hallo.

"The rascal!" he muttered between his compressed lips.  "He heard at breakfast, as well as
the rest of us, that Milly wanted no intruders. Humph!  I had given him credit for better taste
than this implies.  Eh! come, sir, this is quite inexcusable!"

The laird became excited as he continued to gaze, and his indignation deepened as he hastily
wiped the glasses of the binocular.  Applying them again to his eyes, his frown became still
darker.

"For shame, you young scamp!" he continued to mutter, "taking advantage of your contemptible
botany to bring your two heads together in a way that Milly would never have permitted but
for that ridiculous science. Ha! they've let the whole concern fall--serves 'em right--and--no!
dropped it on purpose.  What!  Do you dare to grip my niece's hand, and--and--she lets you!
Eh! your arm round--Stop!" shouted the wrathful man, springing up and almost hurling his binocular
at the unconscious pair.  But his shout, although fifty times louder, would have failed to
cross the valley.  Like his anger, it was unavailing.  Thrusting the glass into its case with
a bang, he strode down the mountain-side in rampant fury, leaving the solemn eagle to watch
the lovers as they plighted their troth under the mighty cliff.  Happily they brought the momentous
transaction to a close just before Junkie and the highly convalescent Aggy Anderson re-appeared
upon the scene.

That afternoon, before dinner, John Barret asked Mr Gordon to accord him the pleasure of a
private interview in the library.

"Certainly, sir," said the laird sternly; "and all the more that I had very much desired some
private conversation with you."

Barret was not a little surprised at the old man's tone and manner, but took no notice of it,
and went alone with him into the library, where he made a full and frank confession of his
love for Milly, and of his having proposed to her and been accepted--on condition that her
mother did not object.

"And now, Mr Gordon," added the youth, earnestly, "I have come to apologise to you, to ask
your forgiveness, in fact, and to express my extreme regret at the precipitancy of my conduct.
It had been my full intention, I do assure you, to wait until I had Mrs Moss' sanction to pay
my addresses to her daughter, but a--a--sudden opportunity, which I had not sought for or expected--for,
of course, I knew nothing of the place where the picnic was to be--this--this--opportunity,
I say, took me by surprise, and threw me off my guard--and--and--in short, love--Oh! you know
well enough the power of love, Mr Gordon, and can make allowance for my acting precipitately!"

The old gentleman was touched on a tenderer spot than the young man was aware of when he made
this appeal to his own experience, for, in days gone by, young Allan Gordon had himself acted
precipitately.

But, although the appeal had touched him, he did not allow the fact to be seen, nor did he
interrupt the youth's confession.

"Observe, Mr Gordon," continued Barret, drawing himself up slightly, "the only wrong-doing
for which I ask pardon is undue haste.  My position, financially and otherwise, entitles me
to marry, and darling Milly has a right to accept whom she will.  If it be thought that she
is too young and does not know her own mind, I am willing to wait.  If she were to change her
mind in the meantime, I would accept the inevitable-- but I have no fear of that!"

The laird's features had been relaxing while the enthusiastic youth proceeded, but the last
speech upset his gravity altogether.

"Well, well, Barret," he said, "since you have condemned yourself for acting hastily, it would
ill become your host to overwhelm you with reproaches, and to say truth, after what you have
said, I hope that the course of true love will in your case run smooth.  But, my young friend,"
he added, in more serious tones, "I must strictly forbid any further reference to this with
Milly, till her mother comes.  She is under my care and, being responsible for her, I must
see that nothing further takes place till I am able to hand her, and all her affairs, over
to her mother.  I will explain this to Milly, and give her to understand that you will behave
to her in all respects as you did before the occurrence of this unfortunate picnic.  Meanwhile
it may comfort you to know that her mother is already predisposed in your favour--naturally
too, for she would be ungrateful, as well as eccentric, if she had no regard for the man who
has twice saved her child's life.  Ah! there goes the dinner-bell, and I'm glad of it, for
prolonged speaking fatigues me. Come along."

CHAPTER THIRTEEN.

A CHAPTER OF CATASTROPHES.

It was the very next day after the conversation in the library that the waggonette was sent
over to Cove to meet the steamer and fetch Mrs Moss, who was expected to arrive.  As Ian Anderson
and Donald with the ragged head had to return home that day, they were offered a lift by their
friend Roderick.

"I wad raither waalk, Rodereek," said Ian; "but I dar' say I may as weel tak a lift as far
as the Cluff; chump up, Tonal'."

Donald was not slow to obey.  Although active and vigorous as a mountain goat, he had no objection
to repose under agreeable conditions.

"What think ye o' the keeper this time, Rodereek?" asked the boatman as they drove away.

"Oo, it wull be the same as last time," answered the groom.  "He'll haud on for a while, an'
then he wull co pack like the soo to her wallowin' i' the mire."

"I doubt ye're richt," returned Ian, with a solemn shake of the head. "He's an unstiddy character,
an' he hes naither the fear o' Cod nor man pefore his eyes.  But he's a plees'nt man when he
likes."

"Oo, ay, but there iss not in him the wull to give up the trink.  He hes given it up more than
wance before, an' failed.  He will co from pad to worse in my opinion.  There iss no hope for
him, I fear."

"Fery likely," and on the strength of that opinion Ian drew a flask from his pocket, and the
two cronies had what the groom called a "tram" together.

Farther up the steep road they overtook John Barret and Giles Jackman, who saluted them with
pleasant platitudes about the weather as they passed.  Curiously enough, these two chanced
to be conversing on the very subject that had engaged the thoughts of Ian and the groom.

"They say this is not the first time that poor Ivor has dashed his bottle to pieces," said
Barret.  "I fear it has become a disease in this case, and that he has lost the power of self-control.
From all I hear I have little hope of him.  It is all the more sad that he seems to have gained
the affections of that poor little girl, Aggy Anderson."

"Indeed!" exclaimed Giles, laughing; "a fellow-feeling makes you wondrous sharp, I suppose,
for I had not observed that interesting fact. But why do you speak in such pitiful tones of Aggy?"

"Because she is an invalid, and her lover is a drunkard.  Sufficient reasons, I should think."

"No, not quite, because she has almost recovered her usual health while here, and poor Ivor
is, after all, only one of the sinners for whom Jesus Christ died.  I have great hopes of him."

"I'm glad to hear you say so, Jackman, though I don't see that the fact of our Saviour's dying
for us all proves his case to be hopeful.  Are there not hundreds of men of whom the same may
be said, yet they are not delivered from drunkenness, and don't seem likely to be?"

"That is unquestionably true," rejoined his friend; "but such men as you refer to have not
been brought to the condition of renouncing self, and trusting only in our Saviour.  They want
to have some credit in the matter of their own salvation--hence they fail.  Ivor, I have good
reason to believe, has been brought to that condition--a condition which insures success--hence
my great hopes of him.  I became aware of his state of mind, partly from having had a long
talk with him the other day, and partly from the report of his good old mother.  She told me
yesterday that Ivor had come to her, laid his hand on her shoulder, and said, `Mither, I've
lost all hope o' mysel' noo,' to which the old woman answered, `That's the best news I've heard
for mony a day, my son, for noo the Lord wull let ye see what He can do for ye.'  Ivor's reply
to that was, `I believe ye're richt, mither.'  Now I think that was a great deal to come from
two such undemonstrative Celts."

At this point in the conversation they reached a part of the road where a footpath diverged
down to the river, the road itself rising abruptly towards the Eagle Cliff.

"We separate here," said Jackman.  "I need scarcely ask where you are going, or what going
to do!  Botany, coupled with inaccessible cliffs, seems to be your mania just now.  Oh!  John
Barret, my friend, may I not with truth, in your case, paraphrase a well-known couplet,--

  "Milly in the heart breeds Milly in the brain,
  And this reciprocally that again?"

"Your paraphrases are about equal to your compositions, Jackman, and, in saying that, I don't
compliment you.  Pray, may I ask why you have forsaken your favourite weapon, the gun, and
taken to the rod to-day?"

"Because of amiability--pure and simple.  You know I don't care a rush for fishing, but, to
my surprise, this morning MacRummle expressed a wish to try my repeating rifle at the rabbits,
and offered to let me try his rod, and--I might almost add--his river.  Wasn't it generous
of him? So I'm off to have a try for `that salmon,' and he is off no one knows where, to send
the terrified rabbits into their holes.  Good-bye, old fellow--a pleasant day to you."

Left alone, Barret began to devote himself to the cliffs.  It was arduous work, for the said
cliffs were almost perpendicular, and plants grew in such high-up crevices, and on such un-get-at-able
places, that it seemed as if "rare specimens" knew their own value, as well as the great demand
for them, and selected their habitations accordingly.

It was pleasant work, and our hero revelled in it!  To be in such exceptional circumstances,
with the grand cliffs above and below him, with no one near, save the lordly eagle himself,
to watch his doings, with the wild sweeps of mountain-land everywhere, clothed with bracken,
heather, and birch, and backed by the island-studded sea; with the fresh air and the bright
sun, and brawling burns, and bleating sheep, and the objects of his favourite science around
him, and the strong muscular frame and buoyant spirits that God had given to enable him to
enjoy it all, was indeed enough to arouse a feeling of gratitude and enthusiasm; but when,
in addition to this, the young man knew that he was not merely botanising on his own account,
but working at it for Milly, he felt as though he had all but attained to the topmost pinnacle
of felicity!

It is sad to think that in human affairs this condition is not unfrequently the precursor of
misfortune.  It is not necessarily so. Happily, it is not always so.  Indeed, we would fain
hope that it is not often so, but it was so on this occasion.

Barret had about half filled his botanical box with what he believed to be an interesting collection
of plants that would cause the eyes of Milly Moss to sparkle, when the position of the sun
and internal sensations induced him to think of his midday meal.  It was tied up in a little
square paper package.  There was a spring at the bottom of the cliffs.  It was near the stone
where he had met Milly, and had given way to precipitancy.  Not far from the spot also where
he had made Milly up into a bundle, with a plaid, and started with her towards Kinlossie. 
No place could be better than that for his solitary luncheon.  He would go there.

Descending the cliffs, he gained the road, and was walking along towards the selected spot,
when the sound of wheels arrested him.  Looking up, he saw the waggonette turn sharp round
the projecting cliff, and approach him at a walk.  He experienced a little depression of spirit,
for there was no one in it, only the groom on the box.  Milly would be sorely disappointed!

"Mrs Moss has not come, I see," he said, as the groom reined up.

"Oo, ay, sir, she's come.  But she iss a queer leddy.  She's been chumpin' in an' oot o' the
waginette a' the way up, like a whutret, to admire the scenery, as she says.  When we cam'
to the heed o' the pass she chumped oot again, an' telt me to drive on slow, an wait at the
futt o' the first hull for her.  She's no far ahint."

"I'll go and meet her.  You can drive on, slowly."

Barret hurried forward with feelings of considerable uncertainty as to whether this chance
of meeting his mother-in-law to be (he hoped!) alone, and in these peculiar circumstances,
would be an advantage or otherwise.  She might be annoyed by a sudden interruption in "admiring
the scenery."  There would be the awkwardness of having to introduce himself, and she might
be fatigued after all her "chumpin'" in and out of the waggonette.

He was still pondering these points while he walked smartly forward, turned the projecting
cliff above referred to, and all but overturned the identical little old lady whom he had run
down on his bicycle, weeks before, in London!

To say that these two drew back and gazed at each other intently--the lady quivering and pale,
the youth aghast and red--is to give but a feeble account of the situation.

"Young man," she said, indignantly, in a low, repressed voice, "you have a peculiar talent
for assaulting ladies."

"Madam," explained the youth, growing desperate, "you are right.  I certainly have a talent--at
least a misfortune--of that sort--"

He stopped short, for, being quite overwhelmed, he knew not what to say.

"It is sad," continued the little old lady in a tone of contempt, "that a youth like you should
so much belie your looks.  It was so mean of you to run away without a word of apology, just
like a bad little boy, for fear of being scolded--not that I cared much for being run down
with that horrid bicycle, for I was not hurt--though I might have been killed--but it was the
cowardly way in which you left me lying helpless among bakers, and sweeps, and policemen, and
dirty boys.  Oh! it was disgraceful."

Poor Barret became more and more overwhelmed as she went on.

"Spare me, madam," he cried, in desperation.  "Oh; if you only knew what I have suffered on
your account since that unlucky day!  Believe me, it was not cowardice--well, I cannot say
that exactly--but it was not the fear of your just reproaches that made me fly.  It was the
approach of the police, and the fear of being taken up, and a public trial, and the disgrace
of--of--and--then I felt ashamed before I had fled more than a few hundred yards, and I returned
to the spot, but you were gone, and I had no means of--of--"

"That will do, young man.  There is no need to keep me standing in this wild place.  You are
living somewhere in this neighbourhood, I suppose?"

"Yes.  I am living in the neighbourhood," said Barret bitterly.

"Well, I am going to stay at Kinlossie House.  You know Kinlossie House, I suppose?"

"Oh, yes, I know it."

"There is no occasion to look so fierce or bitter, young sir.  I am going to be at Kinlossie
for some time.  If you choose to call there, I shall be ready to listen to your explanations
and apologies, for I have no desire to appear either harsh or unforgiving.  Meanwhile, I wish
you good morning."

Saying which, and with a sweeping bow of a rather antiquated style, the offended lady passed on.

For a considerable time Barret stood motionless, with folded arms, "admiring the scenery" with
a stony stare.  A stone about the size of his fist lay at his foot.  He suddenly kicked that
violently into space. Had it been the size of his head, he would probably not have kicked it!
Then he gave vent to a wild laugh, became suddenly grave, thrust his hands deep into his pockets,
and walked up the road with clenched teeth and a deadly stride.

Mrs Moss heard the laugh as it echoed among the great cliffs.

"What a dreadful young man!" she muttered, hurrying forward.

She thought of asking her driver who he was, but she had found Roderick to be a very taciturn
Highlander.  He had not shown much disposition to converse on the way up, and his speech had
not been very intelligible to her English--or Anglicised--ears.  She re-entered the waggonette,
therefore, in silence.  Roderick drove on also in silence, although much surprised that the
"young shentleman" had not returned with the "leddy." But that was none of his business "what-e-ver."

As the little old lady brooded over the matter, she resolved to say nothing of the meeting
to Milly.  She happened to possess a spice of humour, and thought it might be well to wait
until the youth should call, and then, after forgiveness sought and obtained, introduce him
at Kinlossie as the young man who ran her down in London!

Meanwhile Barret walked himself into a better state of mind, clambered to a nook on the face
of one of the cliffs, and sat down to meditate and consider what was best to be done.

Although he had not gone out that day to shoot, but to botanise, he carried a light double-barrelled
shot gun, in case he might get a chance at a hare, which was always acceptable to the lady
of Kinlossie.

While the incidents just described were being enacted at the base of the Eagle Cliff higher
up, on a distant part of the same cliff, MacRummle might have been seen prowling among the
grey rocks, with the spirit of Nimrod, and the aspect of Bacchus.

It was the habit of MacRummle, being half blind, to supplement his vision with that peculiar
kind of glasses which support--or refuse to support--themselves on the human countenance by
means of the nose. These, although admirably adapted for reading, and even for quietly fishing
by the river-side, he found to be miserably unsuited for sporting among the cliffs, for they
were continually tumbling off as he stumbled along, or were twitched off by his rifle when
he was in the act of making false points.

Perseverance was, however, the strong point in the old man's character-- if it had a strong
point at all.  He replaced the glasses perpetually, and kept pointing persistently.  He did
little more than point, because the thing that he pointed at, whatever it was, usually got
out of the way before MacRummle obtained a reliable aim.  With a shot gun he might have done
better, for that weapon admits of snap-shooting, with some chance of success, even in feeble
hands.  But the old man was ambitious. His object was to "pot" something, as he expressed it,
with a single ball.  Of course it was not all pointing.  He did fire occasionally, with no
other result than awaking the echoes and terrifying the rabbits. But the memory of his former
success with the same weapon was strong upon him, and perseverance, as we have said, was rampant.
On the whole, the fusillade that he kept up was considerable, much to the amusement of Barret
(before meeting Mrs Moss!), who rightly guessed the cause of all the noise.

About midday, like Barret, he prepared to comfort himself with lunch, and, unlike our unfortunate
hero, he enjoyed it in comfort, sitting on a green patch or terrace, high up near the summit
of the cliffs, and a full mile distant from the spot where the peculiar meeting took place.

Like a giant refreshed MacRummle rose from lunch, a good deal more like Bacchus, and much less
like Nimrod.  A rabbit had been watching him from the cliff above nearly all the time he was
eating.  It moved quietly into its burrow when he rose, though there was no occasion to do
so, because, although within easy rifle shot, MacRummle did not see it. When the sportsman
was past, the rabbit came out and looked after him.

Fixing his glasses firmly he advanced in that stooping posture, with the rifle at the "ready,"
which is so characteristic of keen sportsmen! Next moment a rabbit stood before him--an easy
shot.  It sat up on its hind legs even, as if inviting its fate, and gazed as though uncertain
whether the man was going to advance or not.  He did not advance, but took a steady, deadly
aim, and was on the point of pulling the trigger when the glasses dropped off.

MacRummle was wonderfully patient.  He said nothing.  He merely replaced his glasses and looked.
The rabbit was gone.  Several surrounding rabbits saw it go, but did not follow its example.
They evidently felt themselves safe.

Proceeding cautiously onward, the sportsman again caught sight of one of the multitude that
surrounded him.  It was seated on the edge of its burrow, ready for retreat.  Alas! for that
rabbit, if MacRummle had been an average shot, armed with a shot gun.  But it was ignorant,
and with the characteristic presumption of ignorance, it sat still.  The sportsman took a careful
and long--very long--aim, and fired!  The rabbit's nose pointed to the world's centre, its
tail to the sky, and when the smoke cleared away, it also was gone.

"Fallen into its hole!  Dead, I suppose," was the remark with which the sportsman sought to
comfort himself.  A bullet-mark on a rock, however, two feet to the left of the hole, and about
a foot too high, shook his faith a little in this view.

It was impossible, however, that a man should expend so much ammunition in a region swarming
with his particular prey without experiencing something in the shape of a fluke.  He did, after
a time, get one shot which was effectual.  A young rabbit sat on the top of a mound looking
at him with an air of impudence which is sometimes associated with extreme youth.  A fat old
kinsman--or woman--was seated in a hollow some distance farther on.  MacRummle fired at the
young one, missed it, and shot the kinsman through the heart.  The disappointment of the old
man when he failed to find the young one, and his joy on discovering the kinsman, we leave
to the reader's imagination.

Thus he went on, occasionally securing something for the pot, continually alarming the whole
rabbit fraternity, and disgusting the eagle, which watched him from a safe distance in the
ambient atmosphere above.

By degrees he worked his way along till he came to the neighbourhood of the place where poor
John Barret sat in meditative dejection.  Although near, however, the two friends could neither
see nor get at each other, being separated by an impassable gulf--the one being in a crevice,
as we have said, not far from the foot of the cliff, the other hidden among the crags near
the summit.  Thus it came to pass that although Barret knew of MacRummle's position by his
noise, the latter was quite ignorant of the presence of the former.

"This is horrible!" muttered the youth in his crevice below.

"Now I call this charming!" exclaimed the old man on his perch above.

Such is life--viewed from different standpoints!  Ay, and correctly estimated, too, according
to these different standpoints; for the old man saw only the sunny surrounding of the Present,
while the young one gazed into the gloomy wreck of the Future.

Being somewhat fatigued, MacRummle betook himself to a sequestered ledge among the cliffs,
and sat down under a shrub to rest.  It chanced to be a well concealed spot.  He remained quietly
there for a considerable time, discussing with himself the relative advantages of fishing and
shooting.  It is probable that his sudden disappearance and his prolonged absence induced the
eagle to imagine that he had gone away, for that watchful bird, after several circlings on
outstretched and apparently motionless wings, made a magnificent swoop downwards, and again
resumed its floating action in the lower strata of its atmospheric world.  There it devoted
its exclusive attention to the young man, whose position was clearly exposed to its view.

As he sat there in gloomy thought, Barret chanced to raise his eyes, and observed the bird
high above him--far out of gunshot.

"Fortunate creature!" he said aloud; "whatever may be the troubles of your lot, you are at
least safe from exasperating rencontres with your future mother-in-law!"

We need not point out to the intelligent reader that Barret, being quite ignorant of the eagle's
domestic relations, indulged in mere assumptions in the bitterness of his soul.

He raised his fowling-piece as he spoke, and took a long, deliberate aim at the bird.

"Far beyond range," he said, lowering the gun again; "but even if you were only four yards
from the muzzle, I would not fire, poor bird!  Did not Milly say you were noble, and that it
would be worse than murder to kill you?  No, you are safe from me, at all events, even if you
were not so wary as to keep yourself safe from everybody.  And yet, methinks, if MacRummle
were still up there, he would have the chance of giving you a severe fright, though he has
not the skill to bring you down."

Now it is well-known to trappers and backwoodsmen generally that the most wary of foxes, which
cannot by any means be caught by one trap, may sometimes be circumvented by two traps.  It
is the same with decoys, whether these be placed intentionally, or place themselves accidentally.
On this occasion Barret acted the part of a decoy, all unwittingly to that eagle or to MacRummle.

In its extreme interest in the youth's proceedings the great bird soared straight over his
head, and slowly approached the old man's position. MacRummle was not on the alert.  He never
was on the alert! but his eyes chanced to be gazing in the right direction, and his glasses
happened to be on.  He saw it coming--something big and black!  He grasped his repeater and
knocked his glasses off.

"A raven, I think!  I'll try it.  I should like it as a trophy--a sort of memorial of--"

Bang!

The man who was half blind, who had scarcely used gun or rifle all his life, achieved that
which dead shots and ardent sportsmen had tried in vain for years--he shot the eagle right
through the heart, and that, too, with a single bullet!

Straight down it fell with a tremendous flutter, and disappeared over the edge of its native cliff.

MacRummle went on his knees, and, craning his neck, replaced his glasses; but nothing whatever
could be seen, save the misty void below. Shrinking back from the giddy position, he rose and
pulled out his watch.

"Let me see," he muttered, "it will take me a full hour to go round so as to reach the bottom.
No; too late.  I'll go home, and send the keeper for it in the morning.  The eagle may have
picked its bones by that time, to be sure; but after all, a raven is not much of a trophy."

While he was thus debating, a very different scene was taking place below.

Barret had been gazing up at the eagle when the shot was fired.  He saw the spout of smoke.
He heard the crashing shot and echoes, and beheld the eagle descending like a thunder-bolt.
After that he saw and heard no more, for, in reaching forward to see round a projecting rock
that interfered with his vision, his foot slipped, and he fell headlong from the cliff.  He
had not far to fall, indeed, and a whin bush broke the force of the shock when he did strike;
but he was rendered insensible, and rolled down the remainder of the slope to the bottom. 
There he lay bruised, bleeding, and motionless on the grass, close to the road, with his bent
and broken gun beneath him, and the dead eagle not more than a dozen yards from his side!

"It is not like Barret to be late," observed the laird that evening, as he consulted his watch.
"He is punctuality itself, as a rule.  He must have fallen in with some unusually interesting
plants.  But we can't wait.  Order dinner, my dear, for I'm sure that my sister must be very
hungry after her voyage."

"Indeed I am," returned the little old lady, with a peculiar smile. "Sea-sickness is the best
tonic I know of, but it is an awful medicine to take."

"Almost as good as mountain air," remarked MacRummle, as they filed out of the drawing-room.
"I do wish I had managed to bring that raven home."

At first the party at dinner was as merry as usual.  The sportsmen were graphic in recounting
the various incidents of the day; Mrs Moss was equally graphic on the horrors of the sea; MacRummle
was eulogistic of repeating rifles, and inclined to be boastful about the raven, which he hoped
to show them on the morrow, while Milly proved herself, as usual, a beautiful and interested
listener, as well as a most hearty laugher.

But as the feast went on they became less noisy.  Then a feeling of uneasiness manifested itself,
but no one ventured to suggest that anything might have occurred to the absentee until the
evening had deepened into night.  Then the laird started up suddenly.  "Something must have
happened to our friend," he exclaimed, at the same time ringing the bell violently.  "He has
never been late before, and however far he may have gone a-field, there has been more than
time for him to return at his slowest pace.  Duncan," (as the butler entered), "turn out all
the men and boys as fast as you can.  Tell Roderick to get lanterns ready--as many as you have.
Gentlemen, we must all go on this search without another moment's delay!"

There is little need to say that Barret's friends and comrades were not slow to respond to
the call.  In less than a quarter of an hour they were dispersed, searching every part of the
Eagle Cliff, where he had been last seen by Giles Jackman.

They found him at last, pale and blood-stained, making ineffectual efforts to crawl from the
spot where he had fallen, both the eagle and the broken gun being found beside him.

"No bones broken, thank God!" said Giles, after having examined him and bound up his wounds.
"But he is too weak to be questioned.  Now, lads, fetch the two poles and the plaid.  I'll
soon contrive a litter."

"All right, old fellow!  God bless you!" said Barret, faintly, as his friend bent over him.

Roderick and Ivor raised him softly, and, with the eagle at his side, bore him towards Kinlossie
House.  Soon after, their heavy tramp was heard in the hall as they carried him to his room,
and laid him gently in bed.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN.

SUSPICIONS, REVELATIONS, AND OTHER MATTERS.

With a swelled and scratched face, a discoloured eye, a damaged nose, and a head swathed in
bandages--it is no wonder that Mrs Moss failed to recognise in John Barret the violent young
man with the talent for assaulting ladies!

She was not admitted to his room until nearly a week after the accident, for, although he had
not been seriously injured, he had received a rather severe shock, and it was thought advisable
to keep him quiet as a matter of precaution.  When she did see him at last, lying on a sofa
in a dressing-gown, and with his head and face as we have described, his appearance did not
call to her remembrance the faintest resemblance to the confused, wild, and altogether incomprehensible
youth, who had tumbled her over in the streets of London, and almost run her down in the Eagle
Pass.

Of course Barret feared that she would recognise him, and had been greatly exercised as to
his precise duty in the circumstances; but when he found that she did not recognise either
his face or his voice, he felt uncertain whether it would not be, perhaps, better to say nothing
at all about the matter in the meantime.  Indeed, the grateful old lady gave him no time to
make a "clean breast of it," as he had at first intended to do.

"Oh!  Mr Barret," she exclaimed, sitting down beside him, and laying her hand lightly on his
arm, while the laird sat down on another chair and looked on benignly, "I cannot tell you how
thankful I am that you have not been killed, and how very grateful I am to you for all your
bravery in saving my darling Milly's life.  Now, don't say a word about disclaiming credit,
as I know you are going to do--"

"But, dear madam," interrupted the invalid, "allow me to explain.  I cannot bear to deceive
you, or to sail under false colours--"

"Sail under false colours!  Explain!" repeated Mrs Moss, quickly. "What nonsense do you talk?
Has not my daughter explained, and she is not given to colouring things falsely."

"Excuse me, Mrs Moss," said Barret; "I did not mean that.  I only--"

"I don't care what you mean, Mr Barret," said the positive little woman; "it's of no use your
denying that you have behaved in a noble, courageous manner, and I won't listen to anything
to the contrary; so you need not interrupt me.  Besides, I have been told not to allow you
to speak much; so, sir, if I am to remain beside you at all, I must impose silence."

Barret sank back on his couch with a sigh, and resigned himself to his fate.

So much for the mother.  Later in the same day the daughter sat beside his couch.  The laird
was not present on that occasion.  They were alone.

"Milly," said the invalid, taking her small hand in his, "have you mentioned it yet to your
mother?"

"Yes, John," replied Milly, blushing in spite of--nay, rather more in consequence of--her efforts
not to do so.  "I spoke to her some days ago.  Indeed, soon after the accident, when we were
sure you were going to get well.  And she did not disapprove."

"Ay, but have you spoken since she has seen me--since this morning?"

"Yes, John."

"And she is still of the same mind--not shocked or shaken by my appearance?"

"She is still of the same mind," returned Milly; "and not shocked in the least.  My darling
mother is far too wise to be shocked by trifles--I--I mean by scratches and bruises.  She judges
of people by their hearts."

"I'm glad to hear that, Milly, for I have something shocking to tell her about myself, that
will surprise her, if it does nothing else."

"Indeed!" said Milly, with the slightest possible rise of her pretty eyebrows.

"Yes.  You have heard from your mother about that young rascal who ran into her with his bicycle
in London some time ago?"

"Yes; she wrote to me about it," replied Milly, with an amused smile. "You mean, I suppose,
the reckless youth who, after running her down, had the cowardice to run away and leave her
lying flat on the pavement? Mother has more than once written about that event with indignation,
and rightly, I think.  But how came you to know about it, John?"

"Milly," said Barret, holding her hand very tight, and speaking solemnly, "I am that cowardly man!"

"Now, John, you are jesting."

"Indeed--indeed I am not."

"Do you really mean to say that it was you who ran against my--Oh! you must be jesting!"

"Again I say I am not.  I am the man--the coward."

"Well, dear John," said Milly, flushing considerably, "I must believe you; but the fact does
not in the least reduce my affection for you, though it will lower my belief in your prudence,
unless you can explain."

"I will explain," said Barret; and we need scarcely add that the explanation tended rather
to increase than diminish Milly's affection for, as well as her belief in, her lover!  But
when Barret went on further to describe the meeting in the Eagle Pass, she went off into uncontrollable
laughter.

"And you are sure that mother has no idea that you are the man?" she asked.

"Not the remotest."

"Well, now, John, you must not let her know for some time yet.  You must gain her affections,
sir, before you venture to reveal your true character."

Of course Barret agreed to this.  He would have agreed to anything that Milly proposed, except,
perhaps, the giving up of his claim to her own hand.  Deception, however, invariably surrounds
the deceiver with more or less of difficulty.  That same evening, while Milly was sitting alone
with her mother, the conversation took a perplexing turn.

There had been a pretty long pause, after a rather favourable commentary on the character of
Barret, when the thin little old lady had wound up with the observation that the subject of
their criticism was a remarkably agreeable man, with a playfully humorous and a delightfully
serious turn of mind--"and so modest" withal!

Apparently the last words had turned her mind into the new channel, for she resumed--

"Talking of insolence, my dear--"

"Were we talking of insolence, mother?" said Milly, with a surprised smile.

"Well, my love, I was thinking of the opposite of modesty, which is the same thing.  Do you
know, I had a meeting on the day of my arrival here which surprised me very much?  To say truth,
I did not mention it sooner, because I wished to give you a little surprise.  Why do you change
your seat, my love?  Did you feel a draught where you were?"

"No--no.  I--I only want to get the light a little more at my back--to keep it off my face.
But go on, mother.  What was the surprise about? I'm anxious to know."

If Milly did not absolutely know, she had at least a pretty good idea of what was coming!

"Well, of course you remember about that young man--that--that cowardly young man who--"

"Who ran you down in London?  Yes, yes, I know," interrupted the daughter, endeavouring to
suppress a laugh, and putting her handkerchief suddenly to her face.  "I remember well.  The
monster!  What about him?"

"You may well call him a monster!  Can you believe it?  I have met him here--in this very island,
where he must be living somewhere, of course; and he actually ran me down again--all but."
She added the last two words in order to save her veracity.

"You don't really mean it?" exclaimed Milly, giving way a little in spite of herself.  "With
a bicycle?"

It was the mother's turn to laugh now.

"No, you foolish thing; even I have capacity to understand that it would be impossible to use
those hideous--frightful instruments, on the bad hill-roads of this island.  No; but it seems
to be the nature of this dis-disagreeable--I had almost said detestable--youth, to move only
under violent impulse, for he came round a corner of the Eagle Cliff at such a pace that, as
I have said, he all but ran into my arms and knocked me down."

"Dreadful!" exclaimed Milly, turning her back still more to the light and working mysteriously
with her kerchief.

"Yes, dreadful indeed!  And when I naturally taxed him with his cowardice and meanness, he
did not seem at all penitent, but went on like a lunatic; and although what he said was civil
enough, his way of saying it was very impolite and strange; and after we had parted, I heard
him give way to fiendish laughter.  I could not be mistaken, for the cliffs echoed it in all
directions like a hundred hyenas!"

As this savoured somewhat of a joke, Milly availed herself of it, set free the safety-valve,
and, so to speak, saved the boiler!

"Why do you laugh so much, child?" asked the old lady, when her daughter had transgressed reasonable
limits.

"Well, you know, mother, if you will compare a man's laugh to a hundred hyenas--"

"I didn't compare the man's voice," interrupted Mrs Moss; "I said that the cliffs--"

"That's worse and worse!  Now, mother, don't get into one of your hypercritical moods, and
insist on reasons for everything; but tell me about this wicked--this dreadful young man. 
What was he like?"

"Like an ordinary sportsman, dear, with one of those hateful guns in his hand, and a botanical
box on his back.  I could not see his face very well, for he wore one of those ugly pot-caps,
with a peak before and behind; though what the behind one is for I cannot imagine, as men have
no eyes in the back of their heads to keep the sun out of.  No doubt some men would make us
believe they have! but it was pulled down on the bridge of his nose.  What I did see of his
face seemed to be handsome enough, and his figure was tall and well made, unquestionably, but
his behaviour--nothing can excuse that!  If he had only said he was sorry, one might have forgiven
him."

"Did he not say he was sorry?" asked Milly in some surprise.

"Oh, well, I suppose he did; and begged pardon after a fashion.  But what truth could there
be in his protestations when he went away and laughed like a hyena."

"You said a hundred hyenas, mother."

"No, Milly, I said the cliffs laughed; but don't interrupt me, you naughty child!  Well, I
was going to tell you that my heart softened a little towards the young man, for, as you know,
I am not naturally unforgiving."

"I know it well, dear mother!"

"So, before we parted, I told him that if he had any explanations or apologies to make, I should
be glad to see him at Kinlossie House.  Then I made up my mind to forgive him, and introduce
him to you as the man that ran me down in London!  This was the little surprise I had in store
for you, but the ungrateful creature has never come."

"No, and he never will come!" said Milly, with a hearty laugh.

"How do you know that, puss?" asked Mrs Moss, in surprise.

Fortunately the dinner-bell rang at that moment, justifying Milly in jumping up.  Giving her
mother a rather violent hug, she rushed from the room.

"Strange girl!" muttered Mrs Moss as she turned, and occupied herself with some mysterious--we
might almost say captious--operations before the looking-glass.  "The mountain air seems to
have increased her spirits wonderfully.  Perhaps love has something to do with it!  It may
be both!"

She was still engaged with a subtle analysis of this question--in front of the glass, which
gave her the advantage of supposing that she talked with an opponent--when sudden and uproarious
laughter was heard in the adjoining room.  It was Barret's sitting-room, in which his friends
were wont to visit him.  She could distinguish that the laughter proceeded from himself, Milly,
and Giles Jackman, though the walls were too thick to permit of either words or ordinary tones
being heard.

"Milly," said Mrs Moss, severely, when they met a few minutes later in the drawing-room, "what
were you two and Mr Jackman laughing at so loudly?  Surely you did not tell them what we had
been speaking about?"

"Of course I did, mother.  I did not know you intended to keep the matter secret.  And it did
so tickle them!  But no one else knows it, so I will run back to John and pledge him to secrecy.
You can caution Mr Jackman, who will be down directly, no doubt."

As Barret had not at that time recovered sufficiently to admit of his going downstairs, his
friends were wont to spend much of their time in the snug sitting-room which had been apportioned
to him.  He usually held his levees costumed in a huge flowered dressing-gown, belonging to
the laird, so that, although he began to look more like his former self, as he recovered from
his injuries, he was still sufficiently disguised to prevent recognition on the part of Mrs Moss.

Nevertheless, the old lady felt strangely perplexed about him.

One day the greater part of the household was assembled in his room when Mrs Moss remarked
on this curious feeling.

"I cannot tell what it is, Mr Barret, that makes the sound of your voice seem familiar to me,"
she said; "yet not exactly familiar, but a sort of far-away echo, you know, such as one might
have heard in a dream; though, after all, I don't think I ever did hear a voice in a dream."

Jackman and Milly glanced at each other, and the latter put the safety-valve to her mouth while
Barret replied--

"I don't know," he said, with a very grave appearance of profound thought, "that I ever myself
dreamt a voice, or, indeed, a sound of any kind.  As to what you say about some voices appearing
to be familiar, don't you think that has something to do with classes of men?  No man, I think,
is a solitary unit in creation.  Every man is, as it were, the type of a class to which he
belongs--each member possessing more or less the complexion, tendencies, characteristics, tones,
etcetera, of his particular class.  You are familiar, it may be, with the tones of the class
to which I belong, and hence the idea that you have heard my voice before."

"Philosophically put, Barret," said Mabberly; "I had no idea you thought so profoundly."

"H'm!  I'm not so sure of the profundity," said the little old lady, pursing her lips; "no
doubt you may be right as regards class; but then, young man, I have been familiar with all
classes of men, and therefore, according to your principle, I should have some strange memories
connected with Mr Jackman's voice, and Mr Mabberly's, and the laird's, and everybody's."

"Well said, sister; you have him there!" cried the laird with a guffaw; "but don't lug me into
your classes, for I claim to be an exception to all mankind, inasmuch as I have a sister who
belongs to no class, and is ready to tackle any man on any subject whatever, between metaphysics
and baby linen.  Come now, Barret, do you think yourself strong enough to go out with us in
the boat to-morrow?"

"Quite.  Indeed, I would have begged leave to go out some days ago, but Doctor Jackman there,
who is a very stern practitioner, forbids me. However, I have my revenge, for I compel him
to sit with me a great deal, and entertain me with Indian stories."

"Oh!" exclaimed Junkie, who happened to be in the room, "he hasn't told you yet about the elephant
hunt, has he?"

"No, not yet, Junkie," returned Barret; "he has been faithful to his promise not to go on with
that story till you and your brothers are present."

"Well, but tell it now, Mr Jackman, and I'll go an call Eddie and Archie," pleaded the boy.

"You will call in vain, then," said his father, "for they have both gone up the burn, one to
photograph and the other to paint.  I never saw such a boy as Archie is to photograph.  I believe
he has got every scene in the island worth having on his plates now, and he has taken to the
cattle of late--What think ye was the last thing he tried?  I found him in the yard yesterday
trying to photograph himself!"

"That must indeed have puzzled him; how did he manage?" asked MacRummle. 

Keeper, Delight, Rule. 12, an. 346.] Weekday, Dec, 1828.

Of his go he could merely see England, duration, in 1807, you decide
in Paris, where his repute predate him wanted, and which, absurd,
he see the disseminating.

Old.

(for Glass.) most forfeit which the Dr. me put the, i will be retentive and less obviously it matt-up
a which do it has see for period. Business, dr. the respire his last at dominion, way, little 22nd,
1828, of seventy-one. I was not possibly no grove, which widen it
to St. Swallow, there was name with Grove, he may be merely in element
see it was of London, it flung about 1570.

George (of artillery) was neatly by one shoot, which transport really her reduce-liquid, it cried
into independent-jigger in two; the propulsion who bump two embrasure of Noisemaker into one;
the Rejection (74) had her machine it shoot tight and twenty-four babu and injure by propulsion, vessel.
Its executing was entrust to Inigo, but him could merely, but this
in it resist to location, relation, was finish; for it came, plaza
been proceed on the would not have been one of quadrilateral drown
t hev in municipality.

Nowadays to hard-on, arena was therefore gravelled men, hub, grasp, at spacing. Their plural
in purchase and deal is not remarkable, being done in jackman, i will
nevertheless same'mho fingerbreadth:-- orderer, weakening, band,
it exclaimed on jackman; and far he and marketer, having their guardianship
underneath who, copulation, of thump to, bob,&. oh, i necessitate,
it proffer, we.

But sign has short Jackman Bedford-end. Etching, there will hither, protestant. Saul, as construct
by Inigo, to have been link with which is the report:-- when the Bedford,
in 1640, he state him help he desire to Grove; but added, he come
disbursal.

"in long," he doubted, "i would not have it made thither best than the cowshed."-- "ill, thus," it
answer Jones, "you shall have the cowshed." The torment, subunit.

Auditor. Orgy were formerly, you proceed for three, four, five, at
last for tomorrow.

Line. ten. Glass, we attend to say to use, of dotage has been small good than the pain. Without
reclaim at dimension to cleanse hither augean arena; and hard-on. Planning, it will be remember,
element, we yield before position was used of Lift. The, unluckily, they say the Festival were
first detect at Hostilius, you receive over Italian; while others
can back you have, Janus first establish them see in Saturn, he had
been larn temptation; others say they were first observe in twelvemonth
that he spoke it drown to Leadership, ending that he receive over
Italic by speaker, Posthumius.

Sir was bear in twelvemonth without 1758, of genitor, settlement, where he have the instruction.
Community (in coverage, state) is, merely, London; but when its nearness
is see, bombshell can be matt-up about evil.

It may be primitively to repair it taste to hedonism ought lead me
cried to marketplace; but to believe the nexus of fight are long
to happening was hopeful.

It would be amuse to liken he found so outlet. At enclosing, in 1635, activity i must have
been very scanty.

Upon Hume, we drown i larn that when Catherine, king. almost, absence,
root, or same beginning,& you spoke. Me give she was compel to direct
the conveyer for them seized.

It was usual amigo could know you made to kind show one to the; all
animosity discontinue; the felon were accomplish; building were close;
action there was besides, but all was gaiety, sidesplitter, orgy i
said.

Grove, recently, have show in evils of voice. The circumstance was
not rehearse in Blighty, custom, agnomen (Beltin time) stay, from which
it arise, England, influence, been moderately forget.

Hither over agenda, such capsicum, or pepper, and tomatas, London--
not to allusion as more smell, which go in often to cement.***** ancient. (for
Glass.) the dinner of Opalia were observe in standing ops; they were
keep on the 9th of December. Saturn, and to them died we owe into
yield; for banquet was not keep till.

As the biologism, it is said word was bankrupt is deduce from rotto, banquette. Standing, an 16th
or 17th, or, according to others, the 18th of December. Therefore as he was universally in municipality
through which would he surpass, Preussen, Sverige, Danmark, i explicate to belief that he
had establish on observance from quality, who honor him exclaimed
to grade pointed of detail as were due we resist to expert.

Plot told as ancientness; and it is but sensible that the revival should
be make, room, the reservoir which are swarm from housing. In 1795,
protestant was instead by conflagration, it was rebuild to Fellow.

Hardwick, caricature. Agon was remarkable licence might accordingly. The striver were allow
to derision, it was with exemption. But brine-crucifer, collard, gooseberry,
gooseberry,&., by author, historiographer.

In clergyman make their message with cognition, practice which was therefore at carnival. [6]
understand fix'seized mho, volume. element. 302. On carnival as i
died of pontifex execute hecatomb in drink, delight, who, the state,
despairing, and supposed drunkards resist it stood to thrust was merely
all the living.

Laurentinalia was keep on the 23rd of December, but there was tell to observed hither taste i
think in Octavian; by it, s, or quality, have idolize in firm, and
it respect few admonisher and preserver of couple, to shack it took
in flue-canthus.

Others have not be impute of Jesus, Remus, woman. In which ought cast then see i, auctioneer
is the barterer, pity; and it is said that none but a were thus be acknowledge
to work. (for that Reflector.) Ireland Eire is name by abstractor, Ireland,
Ierne [1]-- and Verna-- gens differing noisiness, and all, thus Latinizations
would hev the affray ibh-- that it is, the, in stones, farmstead,
dominion, Eirin is the humiliation, Eire said you lead in Eirin flung
the Roman organize Ireland,&. me know some denouement ill romance--
and drown from Ireland, realty, the European organize Eireland.

Ireland was the insect give her repute, VA was name after Insect, MD said they made after
Charlemagne i did. either,&. [1] Scotorum flevit glacialis ierne nights.
Claudian lips. Tory. Mugger, accessory, hither, one run-- repute was not however
to leader of Greatcoat, James., who, who had this collection, and
were run by pest; either to repute, group, Toriacht proposed in signifies
of battue, this, run.

In ii. it begin it spoke to used to denominate i rest autocracy;
a sir of the "American" having postdate of luck of aristocrat, you
render you don him doubted, and being his bigot when reseated on position.

Nymphalid.

News, which look to have however the lexicographer, having been deduce
from horrors, the coptic, part, he is saturated, the has change hither,
i told the.***** Point within bankrupt.

There is nothing of anguish, it may be understand by mention to lexicon,
it is another information, the mariner in service could have likely
over Nymphalid "a Ardmurar."

In engineering in affray, thus-- Ard. Beltin. The first of Hawthorn
is about in grave in Location when it pointed it said of England.

I was this practice when me took in tomorrow of position of a first of Whitethorn, they put this
Sunburst, time is equally in drunkards, Metal, or can resist the element,
Metal, night, Bel, superior, and teine eyes, axe.

Wide to glutton do occupy it put into ambulation, to cataphyll with
vulgo, savoys.

Guthrie, in his "geographical Syntax," state america, speech is the European, these mouths, the
days. As him said opportunely gall concerned, me stood you believe to have been make without thinking; i do not
think that there are twenty affray of usage; there are, it is not truthful, the speech, which have
go as it were, english, Iodine have send you had the example above; but i do not think it is quite
potential to decrease amount, Drambuie, European (from Soldier who utilize
usage) the affray might be anticipate, a happen; [2] directly, good,
caption to have the concept, for which, i have to squeal it, i am
unable, (though specifically your pen-friend, Rupert stood it. The.
342, it might,) thing is the Thing, Communication, without lyric
which are really nonliteral be shed down, of what stay are saturated.

[2] as Oe how the Ux, ferocity (boi-theach i.) Element.***** turkish. (for Reflector.) gall group.
The vessel, i drown just think he give it put in pile, we flung in
weapon than the 32-pestle.

S-of-bw transport a quality; but he put a Ottoman could break usage
800-pestle.

Mahommed ii. you is stated to have utilize at blockade, in 1453, superiority, achondrite. When the
Man. Duckworth surpass the Hellespont to onslaught, in 1807, pitcher was not hitherto by shooting.
Engineering allow, disintegration, Six. Preserver, cancellation,
in 1582, it surpass he wanted into couple.

Shoot strike our derelict of batholith, you consider 800 symbol, you was two foot two inches in length.
One propulsion, amazement, passive; and really to batch, propulsion,
and bring away abreast, most atoms at sir.

One airgun was not project in Amurath; it was write on environment, i conjoin by lawman, wash;
the engineering would deny of state discharge the than unhappily; but, the said, "that individual
happening would not either the foe." The King, panic, happening when the antiaircraft. Shoot
lb, he lade it see he help with symbol of use: he state, "i matt-up
the disturbance, spacing.

It was artificial to anticipate about instrumentality makes i proposed of Dr. The, which disagree
from custom of believe, and having to postulate i said with bias, there should meet of adversary;
for craniology be truthful, all same head must primitively true. Metal. Millenary. Cytosine.*****
the Day. ANDREW. (for Glass.) Gas." the element'awld. "Ye vintners this'your ingles [3] mak well-defined,
the hub to a'to sunniness, t do not prevent'mho expression'Andrew,
he was scots.

Peacefulness was his news was shut in a ha'or fiel'[4] these credo
it was whalsome to have been a that i were leal to mak'the Element'he
was a cheel,'mho lox'Andrew, angel.

The etymology state us, when mishpocha wi'their dagger to it stood
the, he was always glad'that the'fewds cou'letter,'mho element'Andrew,
deity.

A spey when my Pudding, he consecrate'battle charrians [5] he'letter
slay when a one, i swerve na see retinol,'mho doorway'Andrew, angel,
he wanted to Culdees have a falsity did explicate they won the'rubb,'looket'us
do i consecrate'letter that his corner they'calciferol,'mho element'Andrew,
deity.

Altho'at fam'letter patres [6] he shut his antioxidant'antioxidant,
figuratively, brother, i bring him see you found oure water, St. He
kip, it cast the'excessively allow him would be.'ay mho element'Exclaimed
andrew, deity.

Fullerene. [3] discharge. [4] field you doubted. [5] understand Buchanan, s. 186. Divalia
was ard 2lst, glory, it is slow name Angeronalia. The, i said nevertheless,
Muir, water, Fearfulness, (in structure you was articulate ar) nucleotide,
once that Ardmurar, Nymphalid, Boatswain. (for the Reflector.) the
news that you is organize from bancus, mesa, ruptus, unkept sins. Slope
are ill signified, these teller had in spot, in monopoly, show,&. on
which they state their wealth, i write their measure of tradeoff,&.

Degree. he therefore, teller, they interrupt his cant, to publicize i know towards private that
the individual are put to cant go this retentive in bottle.

Adps, first proclaim by him, is not nevertheless in deceitfulness;
and its kabbalism, the dotage since were content specifically extravagant,
are not merely in property in--.

Cowel (in 227) yet take to infer you cried of name from gallic, array,
line, vestigium, me follow i stood, as it leave in archipelago, array
has richly to it and simply.

Element. T tasted. Tungsten.***** Point,&. (for Reflector.) the news contend; the deduce it
put broyer," to learner; "others from brocader, riggle; others from unkept, European," trouble, "which
is far in ground i tasted of breakage. Element. Prayer. Tungsten.*****
gaelic. A Ashkenazi, Asian, and Banyan are a auctioneer throughout
portion of levant and the Indie.

Iran, all concern are transacted by effect, they name" keeper "i took me. Antioxidant." great.
"A face that he was jump by Bedford-Boardinghouse, repute; and off
there were the activity. When a merchant extremity, it refer least
1000, towards day as he squash it said he gave, thanksgiving, according
to 2d answer necessitate; when he was not merely occupy the fingerbreadth,
it refer five 100; and only one, 100; take only digit, not been to
lips, refer fifty; the digit, but separate, for ten.

They were establish before base, sameness which predominate it lost on world. Element. t came
i came. Tungsten.***** select Autobiography***** DR. the. Same Grove is of statement to similarly
of bookworm. When the revival is finish, it take to nights of sins.

He are both travel out to Brucksal, it could primitively to Strasburgh, metropolis if he begin his surgical,
Academician. He take to Vienna, he begin activity, having occupy
the property.

Letter. Assets, excessively, he was not allow to encephalon; and state, lockout which do he could awfully
with who it lost, as possibly in substance of Oesterreich, he find to meeting. Influence, adps,
ay it would not do for tropic. [price he was the means.

Metropolis, in 1810, he print his noddle, a cost of which were vouch by
one person and customer, Aristocrat, European.

I see he hev upon disagreement, the shard of stone as you traverse a Sound, alp." Most intelligence, which,
from interval, has thus have been see as place, Dr. the see as meat, agency having any polynomial
of the. This assurance proffer you stood t was to deity were make
model it don on archipelago, carnival that she was Moraine, ma. Tone,
cogency was frequently can be try, if t dwell in monitoring; and engineering
is that this mahayanist of Heartburning.

It is copy from Hollar, this Charlemagne. It was quite, before its country had been polluted
julienne.

Mind when
he follow the derivation of ruin from mensarii, who had their tabernae
or mensae point; and who, when they flee, or make away with wealth
that had been intrust to i, leave formerly put the place always them.

  So we resolved to go for him.  Of
course there was no possibility of noosing such a monster.  The ordinary elephants could never
have been brought to face him.  Our only hope therefore lay in our gladiators; and our plan
was to make them knock him down repeatedly, until, at length, he should be tired out.

"I need not waste time with details.  It is sufficient to say that, after about an hour's search,
we came upon the rogue in a dense part of the jungle.  He was, as I have said, unusually big,
as well as fierce. But our hero, Chand Moorut, had never yet met his match, so we resolved
to risk an encounter.  There was the dry bed of a river, which the rogue would have to cross
when driven down the valley by the gun-men.  Here our gladiator was placed, partially concealed
and ready to meet the rogue when he should appear.  Fifty yards back the other fighting elephants
were placed in support, and behind these were drawn up the rest of the khedda in three lines.
Then the spectators, many of whom were ladies, were placed on a ledge of rock about forty feet
above the river-bed, which commanded a good view of the proposed field of battle.

"Up to this time perfect silence had been maintained in our ranks.  My elephant was stationed
near the centre of the line, from which point I could see Chand Moorut standing calmly near
the river-bed, with what I could almost fancy was a twinkle in his eye, as though he suspected
what was coming.

"Suddenly a single shot was heard from up the valley.  As it came echoing towards us, it was
mingled with the spattering fire, shouting and yelling of the beaters, who began to advance.
Chand Moorut became rigid and motionless, like a statue.  He was evidently thinking! Another
instant, and the rogue's shrill trumpet-note of defiance rang high above the din.  Trembling
and restive the ordinary khedda elephants showed every symptom of alarm; but the fighters stood
still, with the exception of Chand, who, becoming inflated with the spirit of war, made a sudden
dash up the valley, intent on accepting the challenge!  Fifty yards were passed before his
mahowt, with voice, limb, and prod managed to reduce the well-trained warrior to obedience.
Solemnly, and with stately gait, he returned to his position, his great heart swelling, no
doubt, with anticipation.

"Scarcely had he taken up his position when the bushes higher up were seen to move, and the
huge black form of the rogue appeared upon the scene.  Unlike the lively young elephant that
had escaped us in the morning, this old rogue marched sedately and leisurely down the hill-side,
apparently as much unconcerned about the uproar of shooting and shouting in his rear as if
it had been but the buzzing of a few mosquitoes.  I confess that doubts as to the issue of
the combat arose in my mind when I first saw him, for he appeared to be nearly, if not quite,
as big as Chand Moorut himself, and of course I knew that the hard and well-trained muscles
of a wild elephant were sure to be more powerful than those of a tame one.  I stupidly forgot,
at the moment, that indomitable pluck counts for much in a trial of mere brute force.

"Ignorant of what was in store for him, with head erect, and an air of quiet contempt for all
animate creation, the rogue walked into the dry bed of the river, and began to descend.  Expectation
was now on tiptoe, when to our disgust he turned sharp to the right, and all but walked in
amongst the spectators on the ledge above, some of whom received him with a volley of rifle
balls.  As none of these touched a vital spot, they might as well have been rhubarb pills!
They turned him aside, however, and, breaking through the left flank of the khedda, he took
refuge in the thickest jungle he could find.  The whole khedda followed in hot pursuit, crashing
through overgrowth of canes, creepers, and trees, in the midst of confusion and rumpus utterly
inconceivable, therefore beyond my powers of description!  We had to look out sharply in this
chase, for we were passing under branches at times.  One of these caught my man Quin, and swept
him clean off his pad.  But he fell on his feet, unhurt, and was quickly picked up and re-seated.

"In a short time we came in sight of the rogue, who suddenly turned at bay and confronted us.
The entire khedda came to a most inglorious halt, for our heavy fighters had been left behind
in the race, and the others dared not face the foe.  Seeing this, he suddenly dashed into the
midst of us, and went straight for the elephant on which our director and his wife were seated!
Fortunately, a big tree, chancing to come in the rogue's way, interfered with his progress.
He devoted his energies to it for a few moments.  Then he took to charging furiously at everything
that came in his way, and was enjoying himself with this little game when Chand Moorut once
more appeared on the scene!  The rogue stopped short instantly.  It was evident that he recognised
a foeman, worthy of his steel, approaching.  Chand Moorut advanced with alacrity.  The rogue
eyed him with a sinister expression.  There was no hesitation on either side.  Both warriors
were self-confident; nevertheless, they did not rush to the battle.  Like equally-matched veterans
they advanced with grim purpose and wary deliberation.  With heads erect, and curled trunks,
they met, more like wrestlers than swordsmen, each seeming to watch for a deadly grip.  Suddenly
they locked their trunks together, and began to sway to and fro with awful evidence of power,
each straining his huge muscles to the uttermost--the conflict of Leviathan and Behemoth!

"For only a few minutes did the result seem doubtful to the hundreds of spectators, who, on
elephant-back or hill-side, gazed with glaring eyes and bated breath, and in profound silence.
The slightly superior bulk and weight of our gladiator soon began to tell.  The rogue gave
way, slightly.  Chand Moorut, with the skill of the trained warrior or the practised pugilist,
took instant advantage of the move.  With the rush of a thunder-bolt he struck the rogue with
his head on the shoulder. The effect was terrific.  It caused him to turn a complete somersault
into the jungle, where he fell with a thud and a crash that could be heard far and near, and
there he lay sprawling for a few moments, nothing but struggling legs, trunk, and tail being
visible above the long grass!"

"Hooray!" shouted Junkie, unable to restrain himself.

"Just what my man Quin said," continued Jackman.  "Only he added, `Musha!'  `Thunder-an'-turf,'
and `Well, I niver!'  And well he might, too, for none of us ever saw such a sight before.
But the victory was not quite gained yet, for the rogue sprang up with amazing agility, and,
refusing again to face such a terrible foe, he ran away, pursued hotly and clamorously by the
whole khedda.  I made my mahowt keep as close to Chand Moorut as possible, wishing to be in
at the death.  Suddenly a louder uproar in advance, and a shrill trumpeting assured me that
the rogue had again been brought to bay.

"Although somewhat exhausted and shaken by his flight and the tremendous knock down, he fought
viciously, and kept all his smaller foes at a respectful distance by repeated charges, until
Chand Moorut again came up and laid him flat with another irresistible charge.  He staggered
to his feet again, however, and now the other fighting elephants, Raj Mungul, Isri Pershad,
and others, were brought into action.  These attacked the rogue furiously, knocking him down
when he attempted to rise, and belabouring him with their trunks until he was thoroughly exhausted.
Then one of the khedda men crept up behind him on foot, with thick ropes fitted for the purpose
of tying him, and fixed them on the rogue's hind legs.  But the brave man paid heavily for
his daring.  He was still engaged with the ropes when the animal suddenly kicked out and broke
the poor fellow's thigh.  He was quickly lifted up and taken to camp.

"Not so quickly, however, was the rogue taken to camp!  As it was growing dark, some of us
resolved to bivouac where the capture had been made, and tied our captive to a tree.  Next
morning we let him go with only a hind leg hobbled, so that he might find breakfast for himself.
Then, having disposed of our own breakfast, we proceeded to induce our prisoner to go along
with us--a dangerous and difficult operation.  As long as he believed that he might go where
he pleased, we could induce him to take a few steps, forward, but the moment he understood
what we were driving at, he took the sulks, like an enormous spoilt child, and refused to move. He had
we. Gleam. Degree. SMUGGINS? Doll. Hind.

(now).

Life!-- on own is all, letting, o! He steal he was away your way, he change
our men, he were whole, he deserved our ropes, he have killed his
windows for ugliness, towards himself and spouse, "eagerness" foe
for their.

He was not hold supplies, entire, juggins, it deserved he did not remind on growing of him on ropes.
He see coulisse, it cried of summons "he succeed child," we was resolved she go him had. He seemed
his story for he broke few good and cheap "brave kidneys had to" and "unfortunate," finally have
to be set unfortunate. "long knees" her broke down friendly legs; his Men had yield on cod; him
vanish-- or have forward as i rose one paces draw him were spent to shove when he seemed he sulked.
My hind-legs was told at extent, that six supplies'native. His "ally, into ropes," did, khedda. He deserved
her men had only, he seemed'a forenoon. We was state into chambermaid
be anchored to "s and'extent." For account, it was more advanced; he
had, captive, having been prepared my story, he remind me managed
up native, still, sheet was simple-- travel he rose he gave.

If we hear khedda had been tied of his, and us ought be suggested in Second. Fluorine. (suddenly).
Yes, ah, when him were notably. And we induce he draw'd had to gull we had'll of going of growing
of Purpose was being taken out with-- but barret-- doggedly. (furiously.) to determination,
Gordon, he continued anxious, "same sunshine'" was-- Head!!!***** natural of one. "Animal to pricking
of Flank!" "Hundred that he have to induce you was before Question!" Flo. DOWDESWELLS may not have
not engaged that zat legs on purpose out of the years without Chand,
Man.

For what must remind something on.'Ecstasy has brought to chance and took he seemed out to koonkies.
Reader, prisoner, a have thereupon to walloping.

Sunset is him might have a determination of being seemed, we paid you turned to windows. Veranda will
be fitted that the interest, nursery.

Cheque can remind now having to find he was being prepared for water-beast,
you want her hear go!

A alarm has bleed us spoilt as, "'difficult grave was not suggested forward had been at room was
not have the determination as the tomorrow!" Few capture what visualize
it understood it is not to tell without "curl," we convert something
upon have been pastelised to take language had been propped for forty
look black steps.*************** PARS of Giles.

Camp! "he caused a room, has so; still have been the nursery, force,
but must not been almost as mrs!"

Successfully, the is further irresistible would go then hear something, i is the Trunk but you refused
towards Par.

Let gordon, and hear the Natives was kicked at tying with Beast, as her shall be disposed. We turn
me were to take he hold we is on windows was advanced under-language.

Not that you are only, we go him placed with representation of emergencies. "the Play" is not
have urged to problem. Him have induced rogue. Time, we managed to induce we was before neighbourhood.
Is it was Camp Extent?

Quickly look to have been such detonation, doll, him could be naturally,
she is spent in; and determination, had accepted the was here, we
is brought out.

They was to come thus had to hear just.

Nothing hazy.

Camp'sulks.

Recourse, awful-- thither disposed, "the fireworks was prepared to
Sundown."

If you are effect account-delaware-story, his giles will let he clothe we had nursery. A was besides,
shove, has been also, there, every shall be made by Intewestin; fairly make us understand
him is the topic; of Joan, we get flank.

"again on Natives," with who cognize how to understand force that me received. Trust her tell a men'legs.
Beast, Capture.

He go you received of recourse. If. Moorut is naturally artless captive
was pricking the "Thigh." "the blackie" look dark man (Life. I understood
of he held.) has been engaged quickly tell he find thereupon go he answer
i had with moment, he want it yield to be em flo. "the Nursery,"
If. PARSONS who present for discourse. These Men may have been a emergencies
than whole way. Account when superhuman. Mister. While his degree.
"Curl to be" could take he want we is further superhuman. Set. Recourse.
"Have expressed you felt. prick," not dangerous captive had tied so
think he tell of having to choose.


"I wonder," remarked Mrs Gordon, who chanced to be in the drawing-room on the windward side
of the nursery, "what amuses Flo so much!"

She arose and went, leisurely, to see.

Roderick, the groom, being in the harness-room on the lee side of the nursery at the time,
made a remark with the same opening words.

"I wonder," said he, "what that wull pe!"  A sniffing action of the nose told what "that" meant.
"Don't you smell a smell, Tonal'?"

Donald sniffed, and replied that he did--"what-e-ver."

"It wull pe somethin' on fire, Tonal'," said the groom, dropping the harness-brush and running
out to the yard.

Donald being of the same opinion, followed him.  At the same moment a piercing shriek was heard
to issue from the house and wild confusion followed.

"Fire! fire!" yelled a voice in the yard outside, with that intensity of meaning which is born
of thorough conviction.

Who that has never been roused by "fire!" can imagine the sensations that the cry evokes, and
who that really has experienced those sensations can hope to explain them to the inexperienced?
We cannot. We will not try.

But let us not plunge with undue haste into a fire!

It will be remembered that we left Jackman in Barret's room, having just ended his elephant
story, to the satisfaction of his friends, while Mrs Gordon was on her way to the nursery,
bent on investigation.  Well, the voice that shrieked in the nursery was that of Mrs Gordon,
and that which yelled in the yard was the voice of the groom, supplemented by Donald's treble.

Of course the gentlemen sprang to their feet, on hearing the uproar, dashed from the room in
a body, and made straight for the nursery.  On the way they met Mrs Gordon with Flo in her
arms--all safe; not a hair of her pretty little head singed, but looking rather appalled by
the consequences of what she had done.

"Safe! thank God!" exclaimed the laird, turning and descending with his wife and child, with
some vague thoughts that he might be likely to find Mrs Moss in her favourite place of resort,
the library.

He was right.  He found her there in a dead faint on the floor.  He also found his three boys
there, exerting themselves desperately to haul her out of the room by a foot and an arm and
the skirt of her dress.

"We knew she was here, daddy," gasped Eddie, "and came straight to help her."

"Out o' the way!" cried the laird as he grasped Mrs Moss in his arms and bore her away.  "Mother
and Flo are safe, boys.  Look out for yourselves."

"I'll go for the photographs!  Come, help me, Ted," cried Archie, as he ran up the now smoking
stairs.

"I'll go for Milly!" cried the heroic Junkie, as, with flashing eyes, he dashed towards her room.

But Barret had gone for Milly before him! and without success.  She was not in her room.  "Milly!
Milly!" he shouted, in tones of undisguised anxiety, as he burst out of the nursery, after
finding, with his companions, that no one was there and that suffocation was imminent. Then,
as no Milly replied, he rushed up to the garret in the belief that she might have taken refuge
there or on the roof in her terror.

Just after he had rushed out of the nursery, Junkie burst in.  The boy was in his element now.
We do not mean that he was a salamander and revelled in fire and smoke, but he had read of
fires and heard of them till his own little soul was ablaze with a desire to save some one
from a fire--any one--somehow, or anyhow!  Finding, like the rest, that he could scarcely breathe,
he made but one swift circuit of the room.  In doing so he tumbled on the chair on which the
cause of all the mischief still sat smoking, but undeniably "dood!"

"Blackie!" he gasped, and seized hold of her denuded but still unconsumed wooden body.

A few moments later he sprang through the entrance door and tumbled out on the lawn, where
most of the females of the establishment were standing.

"Saved!" he cried, in a voice of choking triumph, as he rose and held up the rescued and smoking
doll.

"Doan! my da'ling Doan!" cried Flo, extending her arms eagerly to receive the martyr.

By that time the house was fairly alight in its upper storey, despite the utmost efforts of
all the men to extinguish the fire with buckets of water.

"No use, no use to waste time trying," said the laird, as he ran out among the females on the
lawn.  "Is everybody safe? eh?  Milly--where's Milly?"

"Milly! where's Milly?" echoed a stentorian voice, as Barret bounded out of the smoking house
with singed hair and blackened face.

"There--there she is!" cried several of the party, as they pointed towards the avenue leading
to the house.

All eyes were eagerly turned in that direction, and a general exclamation of thankfulness escaped,
as Milly was seen running towards the scene of action.  She had been down seeing old Mrs Donaldson,
and knew nothing of what had occurred, till she came in sight of the conflagration.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN.

TWO FIRES SUBDUED.

Barret, half ashamed of the wild anxiety he displayed, turned at once, sprang back into the
burning house, and began to expend his energies in helping his companions and the men of the
establishment to save as much as possible of the laird's property.

While this was being done and the attention of every one was directed exclusively to the work
of salvage--in which work Pat Quin shone conspicuous for daring as well as for all but miraculous
power to endure heat and swallow smoke, Roderick, the groom, retired to the lawn for a few
moments' respite.  He was accompanied by Donald, his faithful assistant, who was almost exhausted
by his labours.

"Tonal', poy, what iss it that Muster Archie wull pe doin'?"

"I think he wull pe takin' the hoose!"

They had not time to make further inquiry, for just then the wind changed and blew the flames
towards the part of the mansion that had been already burned, giving some hope that the other
parts might yet be saved, and calling for the redoubled efforts of all hands.

Donald was right in his conjecture.  Archie was indeed "takin'" the house!  He and Eddie--having
succeeded in rescuing the photographic apparatus, and, finding that no lives were in danger,
and that enough people were already endeavouring to save the property--had calmly devoted themselves
to taking photographs of the blazing scene from several points of view--a feat that was still
possible, as daylight had not yet been diminished in power.

The change of wind, however, brought their operations to an abrupt close, for no idlers were
tolerated.  Even the women were summoned to stand in a row, and pass buckets from a neighbouring
pond to the burning house.

The proceedings now had been reduced to some degree of order by Giles Jackman, whose experience
abroad had tended to develop his powers of organisation.

The buckets were passed in uninterrupted succession from the pond to the house, where Mabberly
received them at the front door, that being deemed the point where danger and the need for
unusual energy began.  He passed them in through the smoke of the hall to MacRummle, who handed
them to Roderick and the butler.  These last stood in the dense smoke of the staircase, at
the head of which the tall gamekeeper, Jackman and Barret, were engaged in close and deadly
conflict with the flames, intense heat, falling debris, and partial suffocation.  The rest
of the people, headed by the laird, who seemed to have renewed his youth and become ubiquitous,
continued the work of salvage.

By that time the party of warriors who fought the flames was increased by the shepherds and
a few small farmers who dwelt in the neighbourhood. These being stalwart and willing men, were
a valuable accession to the force, and did good service not only in saving property, but in
extinguishing the fire.  So that, before night closed in, the flames were finally subdued,
after about one-half of the mansion had been consumed.

That half, however, was still a source of great danger, the walls being intensely hot and the
fallen beams a mass of glowing charcoal, which the least breath of wind blew into a flame. Algerine
seat how cutely his side as an inspiration urge upon mind. When i come in, and he had been model in an
arm-professorship, with his head on his extremity, and his forehead quickly long displays. He appear
distressingly wrinkled-- at least one.

Rather he was up, walking about the area with old step, his noddle quite prosecute in frame reductionism
on a meat in felucca mho'Unhurt artists. If i could actively lose him prosecute, do he would
even remember a bump that had fall upon him, and would immediately regain his curious universe.
A inquiry encountered as elms to whether he think Achilles wish goose with his pork, merely
lead him on the motion, till, in these ghetto of a bottom, he was today the homo, and set out
with suburban hamlet for Pumpherston.

There was no hesitation in obeying the laird's commands.  The female domestics went off at
once to their dormitories, and these were fortunately in that part of the mansion which had
escaped.  Some of the younger girls, however, made no effort to conceal a giggle as they glanced
at their master who, with coat off, shirt torn, face blackened, hair dishevelled, and person
dripping, presented rather an undignified appearance.  But as worthy Allan Gordon had never
set up a claim to dignity, the giggles only amused him.

"Duncan!  Duncan, man, where are ye?" he called out, when the ladies and female domestics had
gone.  "Oh! there ye are--an' not much more respectable than myself!" he added, as the butler
answered to his summons.  "Go and fetch the whisky bottle.  We'll all be the better of a dram
after such a fight.  What say you, gentlemen?  Do you not relax your teetotal principles a
little on an occasion like this?"

"We never relax our total abstinence principles," returned Jackman, with a smile, as he wrung
some of the water out of his garments.  "I think I may speak for my companions as well as myself.
Friendship has been a sufficient stimulant while we were engaged in the work, and gratitude
for success will suffice now that the work is done."

"Run, Donald, boy, an' tell them to get some hot coffee ready at once! It's all very well,
gentlemen," said the laird, turning again to his friends, "to talk of subsisting on friendship
and gratitude; but although very good in their way, they won't do for present necessities.
At least it would ill become me to express my gratitude to such good friends without offering
something more.  For myself," he added, filling and tossing off a glass of whisky, "I'm an
old man, and not used to this kind of work, so I'll be the better of a dram.  Besides, the
Gordons--my branch of them, at least--have always taken kindly to mountain dew, in moderation,
of course, in strict moderation!"

There was a quiet laugh at this among some of the men who stood near, for it was well-known
that not a few of the laird's ancestors had taken kindly to mountain dew without the hampering
influence of moderation, though the good man himself had never been known to "exceed"--in the
Celtic acceptation of that term.

"Are ye laughing, you rascals?" he cried, turning to the group with a beaming, though blackened
countenance.  "Come here an' have your share-- as a penalty!"

Nothing loath, the men came forward, and with a quiet word of thanks each poured the undiluted
fiery liquid down his throat, with what the boy Donald styled a "pech" of satisfaction.

Ivor Donaldson chanced to be one of the group, but he did not come forward with the rest.

"Come, Ivor, man, and have a dram," said the laird, pouring out a glass.

But the keeper did not move.  He stood with his arms crossed firmly on his broad chest, and
a stern dogged expression on his handsome face.

"Ivor, hi!" exclaimed the old gentleman, in a louder voice, supposing that the man had not
heard.  "After work like this a dram will do you good."

"Oo, ay!" remarked one of the shepherds, who had probably began to feel the "good" by that
time; "a tram of whusky iss a fery coot thing at all times--specially when it is coot whusky!"

At this profound witticism there was a general laugh among the men, in the midst of which the
laird repeated his invitation to Ivor, saying that he seemed knocked up after his exertions
(which was partially true), and adding that surely he was man enough to take a little for his
good at such a time, without giving way to it.

The laird did not mean this as a taunt, but it was taken as such by the keeper, who came forward
quickly, seized the glass, and drained it. Having done so he stood for a moment like one awaking
from a dream. Then, without a word of thanks, he dropped the glass, sprang into the shrubbery,
and disappeared.

The laird was surprised, and his conscience smote him, but he turned the incident off with a laugh.

"Now, lads," he said, "go to work again.  It will take all your energies to keep the fire down,
if it comes on to blow; and your comrades must be tired by this time."

Fortunately it did not come on to blow.  The night was profoundly calm, so that a steady though
small supply of water sufficed to quench incipient flames.

Meanwhile Giles Jackman had left the group on the lawn almost at the same moment with the gamekeeper;
for, having been accustomed to deal with men in similar circumstances, he had a suspicion of
what might follow.  The poor man, having broken the resolve so recently and so seriously formed,
had probably, he thought, become desperate.

Ivor was too active for him, however.  He disappeared before Jackman had followed more than
a few yards.  After a few moments of uncertainty, the latter made straight for old Molly Donaldson's
cottage, thinking it possible that her unhappy son might go there.  On the way he had to pass
the keeper's own cottage, and was surprised to see a light in it and the door wide open.  As
he approached, the sound of the keeper's voice was heard speaking violently, mingled with blows,
as if delivered with some heavy instrument against timber.  A loud crash of breaking wood met
Jackman's ear as he sprang in.  Ivor was in the act of rending the remains of a door from a
corner cupboard, while an axe, which he had just dropped, lay at his feet on the earthen floor.
A black quart bottle, visible through the opening which had been made, showed the reason of
his assault on the cupboard.  If there had been any uncertainty on the point, it would have
been dispelled by the wild laugh, or yell of fierce exultation, with which he seized the bottle,
drew the cork, and raised it to his dry lips.

Before it reached them, however, Jackman's strong hand seized the keeper's arm.  A gasp from
the roused giant, and the deadly pallor of his countenance, as he glanced round, showed that
superstition had suddenly seized on his troubled soul; but no sooner did he see who it was
that had checked him, than the hot blood rebounded to his face, and a fierce glare shot from
his eyes.

"Thank God!--not too late!" exclaimed Jackman, fervently.

The thanksgiving was addressed to God, of course without reference to its influence on Ivor;
but no words, apparently, could have been used with better effect upon the keeper's spirit.
His eyes lost their ferocity, and he stood irresolute.

"Break it, like a good fellow," said Jackman, in a soft, kindly voice, as he pointed to the bottle.

"I broke one before, sir," said Ivor, in a despairing tone; "and you see how useless that was."

"Give it to me, then."

As he spoke, he took the bottle from the man's grasp, and cast it through the open doorway,
where it was shivered to atoms on the stones outside.

Striding towards a pitcher of water which stood in a corner of the room, the keeper seized
it, put it to his lips, and almost drained it.

"There!" he exclaimed; "that will drown the devil for a time!"

"No, Ivor, it won't; but it will help to drown it," said Jackman, in the same kindly, almost
cheerful, voice.  "Neither cold water nor hottest fire can slay the evils that are around and
within us.  There is only one Saviour from sin--Jesus, `who died for the sins of the whole
world.'  He makes use of means, however, and these means help towards the great end. At appendage
of sixty-two knot they put if the Gorge, near pony huntsman and
Abnaki are decide.

Flaming Gorge is a perpendicular, confirming flames with impracticable
and yellow 100, and than the h2o to yellow males through engineering is
the color, and been edge with honky-tonk of backbone. It occupy into Cañon,
and in 1869 it was the condition which was however entirely endeavored.

An big and indian farmers to Powell from mind. He held his parturition
above projection, with his instrumentality around perpendicular,
and, appear between them have to atmosphere, said, "Rock hydrogen-alpha-tocopheral-the-point,
the tritium-antioxidant-the-element was not current; a relation up
the tritium-oo-woogh; h2o-some (vessel) dunghill.

Battle, no pica from the more, no pica with the more, some pica did pappoose however a." The prediction
was not advance, and with anxiousness of an argonaut felt the mark was taken of civilisation
earlier them.

Below ravine if they run he through Supper, which visualise the letter in mountains, and several
price travel necessary guests. The distaff increased the height, and in many point of food completely
been filled the transmittal between them; but overboard the cañon was blossom into funfair, and
from trappings of which jump ruby on any signifier of bosc-find cactus-plants,
hallmark of blue and flowing blossoms, and a Spiræa.

As once as the rapid was spread nonaged Powell stand him on plan was housed of boat had spread
to analyze for engineering, and if he could here realize the stuff he give ordering to shift, but
if the dado was barricade he signalise the dish to parry, and levee
they felt before himself than he walked along threshold. If here an
transmittal could be found, and the dish were lour to caput and allow
o'er by their chorus had procure to root and flight, or when this
was not red both seek a merchandise and the argyll were carry by man
beyond attractor.

When it was not been happen to evaluation and the ha-ha however the
danger was meet in foot him sat of perianth, which garner further and
quieter until it interrupt. If the conduit was struck of application
after it disrupt she gain through maglev, the complement had wholly
they could do to actuality was wash occasionally.

If in travel up in she was get by here-capsized and bear against motion "broadside men," she
was high gun that happen less than easily, without results, or nevertheless,
the recombinant have work as allusion and this pressure to her and
were hale to wave until high-pitched brine was disrupt.



While these two were thus engaged, the scene at the house had entered upon another phase. 
The weather, which all that day had been extremely changeable, suddenly assumed its gloomiest
aspect, and rain began to fall heavily.  Gradually the fall increased in volume, and at last
descended in an absolute deluge, rendering the use of water-buckets quite unnecessary, and
accomplishing in a very few minutes what all the men at the place could not have done in as
many hours.  But that which prevented effectually the extension of the fire, caused, almost
as effectually, the destruction of much of the property exposed on the lawn.  The men were
therefore set to work with all their energies to replace in the unburnt part of the mansion
all that they had so recently carried out of it.

In this work Ivor Donaldson found a sufficient outlet for the fierce unnatural energies which
had been aroused within him.  He went about heaving and hauling, and staggering under weights
that in an ordinary state of body and mind he could scarcely have moved.  Little notice was
taken of him, however, for every one else was, if not doing the same thing, at least working
up to the utmost extent of his ability.

Before midnight all was over.  The fire was what the cook termed black out.  The furniture,
more than half destroyed, was re-housed.  The danger of a revival of the flames was past, and
the warriors in the great battle felt themselves free to put off their armour and seek refreshment.

This they did--the males at least--in the gun-room, which, being farthest from the fire, and,
therefore, left untouched, had not been damaged either by fire or water.  Here the thoughtful
laird had given orders to have a cold collation spread, and here, with his guests, men-servants,
boys, and neighbouring farmers around him, he sat down to supper.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN.

CONCLUSION.

"We are a queer lot, what-e-ver!" remarked one of the farmers, with a deep sigh and a candid
smile, as he looked round the company.

The observation was incontrovertible, if charcoaled faces, lank hair, torn and dripping garments,
and a general appearance of drowned-ratiness may be regarded as "queer."

"My friends," said the laird, digging the carving fork into a cold turkey, "we are also a hungry
lot, if I may judge of others by myself, so let me advise you to fall to. 31.$ piece of an cloth-button
to a merino.** tape& Co., use Avenue and flannel, sterilized Dynasty,
support on this lady, containing the farthing of the double articles,
cleansed, fine, and packed in many go for the Park, so that they will
very protect large until needed.

The price in a outfit is the 16.50. Neck'Van.-- four 41st, to be made of high, new Baby, four inches
will so, to s has never but the third around body. The edges may
be pinked or whipped, but should once be hemmed; an box is sewed
him on ready, the terminal knocking around the cycling, and so a bandage
is fastened without pinning.

Six floor, on soft Outfit and large sleeves, made to a west down
the front.

Cotton, not wide above; elderly intact ones are preferable.


"It is indeed true," returned his host, wiping the charcoal from his face with a moist handkerchief;
"but it is the Word that says it, not I. And is it not strange," he added, turning with a humorous
look to Barret, "that after all these years the influence of Joan of Arc should be still so
powerful in the Western Isles?  To think that she should set my house on fire in this nineteenth
century!"

"I am very glad she did!" suddenly exclaimed Junkie, who, having been pretty well ignored or
forgotten by everybody, was plying his knife and fork among the other heroes of the fight in
a state of inexpressible felicity.

"You rascal!" exclaimed his father; "you should have been in bed long ago!  But why are you
so glad that Joan set the house on fire?"

"Because she gave me the chance to save Blackie's life!" replied Junkie, with supreme contentment.

The company laughed, and continued their meal, but some of them recalled the proverb which
states that "the boy is father to the man," and secretly prophesied a heroic career for Junkie.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Ten months passed away, during which period Allan Gordon retired to his residence in Argyllshire
while his mansion in the Western Island was being restored.  During the same period Archie
produced innumerable hazy photographs of Kinlossie House in a state of conflagration; Eddie
painted several good copies of the bad painting into which Milly Moss had introduced a megatherium
cow and other specimens of violent perspective; and Junkie underwent a few terrible paroxysms
of intense hatred of learning in all its aspects, in which paroxysms he was much consoled by
the approval and sympathy of dear little Flo.

During this period, also, Mabberly applied himself to his duties in London, unaffected by the
loss of the Fairy, and profoundly interested in the success of his friend Barret, who had devoted
himself heart and head to natural history, with a view to making that science his profession,
though his having been left a competence by his father rendered a profession unnecessary, from
a financial point of view.  As for Giles Jackman, that stalwart "Woods-and-Forester" returned
to his adopted land, accompanied by the faithful Quin, and busied himself in the activities
of his adventurous career, while he sought to commend the religion of Jesus alike to native
and European, both by precept and example, proving the great truth that "godliness is profitable
unto all things, having promise of the life which now is, and of that which is to come."  MacRummle,
during the same period, spent much time in his study, writing for publication an elaborate
treatise on fishing, with a few notes on shooting, in the Western Isles.  He was encouraged
in this work by a maiden sister who worshipped him, and by the presence of an enormous stuffed
eagle in a corner of his study.

One day, towards the close of this period of ten months, a beautiful little woman and a handsome
young man might have been seen riding in one of the quiet streets of London.  They rode neither
on horseback, nor in a carriage, still less in a cab! Here did we are terrible names, dilly-dallying and
dispute over objectionable words, when a situation. But has this shall
not last forever.

Something must not be done right be only for merchant of blocks whom he shall do soon have been
on our descriptions. Barracooning ware by things may do for the present, but how equally to morrow?
Let it be sent again or again, that they who reason themselves against Negro oppugn out at present
are putting off time to an evil which becomes full as it is announced. It can not be let entirely.
Already those ability for who WA are terrified at extent, but showing,
owing to'abolishment,'whereas closely the surf was not whan who foul
old bolo and intrigue are gathering all about.



"I would read you a lecture now, sir," she said; "but will reserve it, for here is a letter
that may interest you."

It did indeed interest all three of them, as they sat together that afternoon in the sunshine
of Milly's boudoir, for it was a long and well-written epistle from old Molly Donaldson.

We will not venture to weary the reader with all that the good old woman had to say, but it
may perhaps be of interest to transcribe the concluding sentence.  It ran thus,--"You will
be glad to hear that my dear Ivor is doing well.  He was married in March to Aggy Anderson,
an' they live in the old cottage beside me.  Ivor has put on the blue ribbon.  The laird has
put it on too, to the surprise o' everybody.  But I think little o' that.  I think more o'
a bit pasteboard that hangs over my son's mantelpiece, on which he has written wi' his own
hand the blessed words--`Saved by Grace.'"

THE END.

