The chief incidents in the ministry here were the smiting of the Jewish sorcerer, Elymas, with
blindness for his persistent opposition and the conversion of the deputy of the country, Sergius
Paulus (Acts 13:6-12).  Saul is filled with an unusual power of the Spirit for his work in
this city and takes the name of Paul.  It is now no longer Barnabas and Saul, but Paul and
Barnabas.

+Perga in Pamphylia+--(Acts 13:13, 14).  The missionaries take ship from Paphos and sail in
a north-easterly direction across the Mediterranean Sea to this city of Asia Minor.  John Mark,
doubtless appalled by the difficulties which had already been experienced and now that the
journey seemed to promise still greater hardships, left the company and returned to Jerusalem.

+Antioch in Pisidia+ (Acts 13:14-52) was about ninety miles directly north of Perga.  It was
a good-sized city with a large Jewish population.  Luke's account of this visit is notable
in that we have the chief points in Paul's speech in the synagogue set down.  This address
is worth study from the fact that it is the first sermon of Paul of which we have any record,
and is probably the usual way in which he began his work in a great many Jewish synagogues.
Paul is asked to speak to the assembled Jews. He begins upon the common ground of the history
of Israel.  He declares the promise of a Savior.  This Savior is to be of the seed of David.
Then Paul sets forth that Jesus is the promised Savior.  He reminds them of the testimony of
John and of those who had seen Jesus before and after His resurrection.  He declares unto them
the glad tidings of a Savior.  He warns them of their peril in rejecting Jesus Christ.  Paul
is invited to speak upon the next Sabbath, but there is a division and those who oppose Paul
try to drive him out of their city which they finally succeed in doing.  But the Word has fallen
into good soil and there is the beginning of a Christian church.

+Iconium in Lycaonia+ (Acts 14:1-5) is over one hundred miles distant from Antioch.  The missionaries
were now in a country of a people with strange ways.  They remained here for some time and
their ministry was attested by "signs and wonders."  But again some of the Jews opposed them
and stirred up the multitude.  A plan was made by the ringleaders of the opposition to stone
them, but being made aware of it Paul and Barnabas "fled unto Derbe and Lystra."  They had,
however, the satisfaction of leaving behind "a great multitude of believing Jews and Greeks"
(Acts 14:1).

+Lystra and Derbe in Lycaonia+ (Acts 14:6-21).--"And there they preached the gospel."  There
is no mention of any Jewish synagogue at either of these cities. The inhabitants were worshippers
of the heathen gods. The healing of a lame man at Lystra brought Paul and Barnabas directly
into touch with the heathen priests and populace.  When they saw this miracle of healing, they
thought that the gods had come down to earth in the likeness of men.  Barnabas was called Jupiter
"and Paul Mercurius, because he was the chief speaker."  When Paul and Barnabas sought to restrain
the priests and people from doing sacrifice to them, it is interesting to note what words Paul
uses in addressing them.  As with the Jews he here seeks first of all a common ground. (Acts
14:15-17).  We find the same earnestness the same desire to preach the gospel to the heathen
here as to the Jews elsewhere.  But the Jews who had made trouble in Antioch and Iconium for
the missionaries came to Lystra and, forming a plot against Paul, persuaded the people and
stoned him so that he was drawn out of the city, they "supposing he had been dead."  But he
was not dead, he soon rose up and came back into the city and the next day departed with Barnabas
to Derbe, where they preached the gospel and taught many.

+The Return Journey+ is very briefly recorded (Acts 14:21-28).  The missionaries returned through
the same cities, Lystra, Iconium, Antioch, and so back to Perga. But from the last city they
did not sail to the island of Cyprus, but took a different course, westerly along the coast
to Attalia in Pamphylia and from thence they sailed to Antioch, the starting point of their
trip.  During this return journey they proved to their friends and enemies that, in departing
from the cities where mobs threatened them, it was through no cowardice on their part, but
for other reasons and for the purpose of preaching the gospel in the regions beyond.  They
"confirmed the souls of the disciples exhorting them to continue in the faith."  They also
further perfected the organization of the churches, ordaining elders in every church.  They
prayed with and for the disciples and commended them to the Lord.

When the missionaries at last entered the city of Antioch, "they rehearsed all that God had
done with them, and how He had opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles."  There must have
been great rejoicing over this happy return of Paul and Barnabas.

THE JERUSALEM COUNCIL

Acts 15:1-35

+One Problem of the Early Church+ was how to reconcile the commandments of Moses with the new
law of liberty in Jesus Christ.  Ought the Gentile Christians to observe the law of Moses?
Ought they to become Jews before they became Christians?  Were there to be two churches?  One
for Jewish and another for Gentile Christians?  These questions are obsolete now, but then
they were burning ones and hotly debated.  Hence this Jerusalem Council, where the matter was
debated and settled, was exceedingly important and fraught with great and grave consequences
for the future welfare of the church. Because certain of the Jewish brethren came to Antioch
and began to teach that it was necessary to salvation that a certain Jewish ordinance and the
law of Moses be kept, it was determined to send Paul and Barnabas to Jerusalem.

A council of "the apostles and elders came together for to consider of this matter" (Acts 15:6).
At this council in Jerusalem, Peter, Paul, Barnabas, and James were the chief speakers.  All
matters were carefully gone over.  Of all the speeches made, Luke records only the two made
by Peter (Acts 15:7-12) and James (Acts 15:13-2l), which must have embodied the sense of the
meeting in that both spoke for liberty, from the Mosaic yoke, in Christ.

+The Decision+ of the council was for the freedom of the Gentile Christians and that they should
not be obliged to become Jews before they became Christians.  Thus was one of the grave crises
of the early church safely passed. Paul and Barnabas went back happy in that great victory
for Gentile Christianity to their brethren at Antioch.

It should be borne in mind, however, that while the question of the relation of the Gentile
Christians to the law of Moses was decided at this council, it was one which came up again
and again to hamper and bother Paul in his missionary work.

QUESTIONS

What is to be considered in the introduction to the three missionary journeys?  By whom was
the call to this work?  What is the significance of the journeys?  The extent and time?  What
can be said of the record?  Were there other long journeys by Paul?  What was the method of
work and support?  What was the message?  The first journey; what was the preparation for it?
Who the companions?  Time and extent?  Rulers?  The Companions. The Wide Scope.  Value to the
World.  Time and Rulers. Epistles to the Churches.

+The Itinerary+--Through Asia Minor.  In Europe (Philippi. Thessalonica.  Berea.  Athens. 
Corinth).

+The Return Voyage+--Ephesus.  Cæsarea.  Antioch.

II. (Acts 15:35, 36).  He felt that he must be advancing the work of Jesus Christ.

+The Companions+ (Acts 15:37-40).--Barnabas proposed to take John Mark, his nephew, with them
on this second journey.  But Paul strenuously objected, basing his objection on the ground
that this young man had deserted them (Acts 13:13) at a very important juncture in the first
journey.  We are told that the contention was very sharp between Barnabas and Paul over this
matter. It was finally settled by Barnabas taking John Mark and sailing for the island of Cyprus
and Paul choosing Silas for his companion.  When Paul came to Derbe and Lystra Timotheus was
invited to join him, which he did (Acts 16:1-4).  Luke, the author of the Acts, goes with this
company into Macedonia (Acts 16:10).  We can trace Luke's connection with the missionaries
by the "we" passages.

That Paul was afterwards reconciled to Barnabas and John Mark is shown by his kindly mention
of them in his Epistles (1 Cor. 9:6; Col. 4:10; 2 Tim 4:11; Philem. 24).

+The Wide Scope+ is a marked feature of this journey of about 3,200 miles.

The first journey was through Cyprus, where Barnabas was well acquainted, and through that
section of Asia Minor roundabout the province of Cilicia, where Paul was practically at home.
Paul was born in Tarsus in Cilicia and it was to this region that he went for some part of
the time between his conversion and his call to the missionary work (Acts 9:30; Gal. 1:21).

The second journey carries Paul into entirely, to him, new provinces of Asia Minor and into
Macedonia and Achaia.  He comes into close contact not only with the rough native populations
of the Asian provinces but with the cultivated philosophers of Greece and the effeminate voluptuaries
of the heathen temples.  Here are new tests for this missionary and the gospel which he preaches,
but he meets them all.  This journey had a large significance for the spread of Christianity.
Had the gospel failed to meet the wants of all sorts and conditions of men, there would have
been no further triumphs for it.

+Value to the World.+--"This journey was not only the greatest which Paul achieved but perhaps
the most momentous recorded in the annals of the human race.

To Paul's turning westward, instead of eastward, through the guidance of the Spirit, and his
entering upon his work in Macedonia (Acts 16:7-11) Europe to-day owes her advancement and Christian
civilization.  It is stating a sober fact when it is asserted that without Christianity Europeans
would now be worshipping idols, the same as the inhabitants of other sections of the world
where the gospel of Christ has not been made known.

+Time and Rulers.+--In time this journey extended over about three years, 51-54 A.D.  The rulers
were: Claudius, Emperor of Rome (Nero became Emperor in 54 A.D.); Herod Agrippa II., King of
Chalcis (who also gets Batanea and Trachontis); and Gallio, Procurator of Achaia.

+Epistles to the Churches.+--Upon this journey Paul makes a new departure.  With the multiplication
of the churches and the impossibility of visiting them often, when occasions demanded it, Paul
begins the writing of special and circular letters to the churches.  The two first Epistles,
of which we have any record, were those to The Thessalonians from Corinth, written probably
in the winter of 52-53 A.D.

NOTE.--For an account of and an analysis of these Epistles see study 7.

THE ITINERARY

