There stands, I fancy, to this day (but now how fallen!) a certain  stationer's shop at a corner
of the wide thoroughfare that joins  the city of my childhood with the sea.  When, upon any
Saturday, we  made a party to behold the ships, we passed that corner; and since  in those
days I loved a ship as a man loves Burgundy or daybreak,  this of itself had been enough to
hallow it.  But there was more  than that.  In the Leith Walk window, all the year round, there
stood displayed a theatre in working order, with a "forest set," a  "combat," and a few "robbers
carousing" in the slides; and below  and about, dearer tenfold to me! the plays themselves,
those  budgets of romance, lay tumbled one upon another.  Long and often  have I lingered there
with empty pockets.  One figure, we shall  say, was visible in the first plate of characters,
bearded, pistol  in hand, or drawing to his ear the clothyard arrow; I would spell  the name:
was it Macaire, or Long Tom Coffin, or Grindoff, 2d  dress?  O, how I would long to see the
rest! how - if the name by  chance were hidden - I would wonder in what play he figured, and
what immortal legend justified his attitude and strange apparel!   And then to go within, to
announce yourself as an intending  purchaser, and, closely watched, be suffered to undo those
bundles  and breathlessly devour those pages of gesticulating villains,  epileptic combats,
bosky forests, palaces and war-ships, frowning  fortresses and prison vaults - it was a giddy
joy.  That shop,  which was dark and smelt of Bibles, was a loadstone rock for all  that bore
the name of boy.  They could not pass it by, nor, having  entered, leave it.  It was a place
besieged; the shopmen, like the  Jews rebuilding Salem, had a double task.  They kept us at
the  stick's end, frowned us down, snatched each play out of our hand  ere we were trusted
with another, and, increditable as it may  sound, used to demand of us upon our entrance, like
banditti, if we  came with money or with empty hand.  Old Mr. Smith himself, worn  out with
my eternal vacillation, once swept the treasures from  before me, with the cry: "I do not believe,
child, that you are an  intending purchaser at all!"  These were the dragons of the garden;
but for such joys of paradise we could have faced the Terror of  Jamaica himself.  Every sheet
we fingered was another lightning  glance into obscure, delicious story; it was like wallowing
in the  raw stuff of story-books.  I know nothing to compare with it save  now and then in
dreams, when I am privileged to read in certain  unwrit stories of adventure, from which I
awake to find the world  all vanity.  The CRUX of Buridan's donkey was as nothing to the  uncertainty
of the boy as he handled and lingered and doated on  these bundles of delight; there was a
physical pleasure in the  sight and touch of them which he would jealously prolong; and when
at length the deed was done, the play selected, and the impatient  shopman had brushed the
rest into the gray portfolio, and the boy  was forth again, a little late for dinner, the lamps
springing into  light in the blue winter's even, and THE MILLER, or THE ROVER, or  some kindred
drama clutched against his side - on what gay feet he  ran, and how he laughed aloud in exultation!
I can hear that  laughter still.  Out of all the years of my life, I can recall but  one home-coming
to compare with these, and that was on the night  when I brought back with me the ARABIAN ENTERTAINMENTS
in the fat,  old, double-columned volume with the prints.  I was just well into  the story
of the Hunchback, I remember, when my clergyman- grandfather (a man we counted pretty stiff)
came in behind me.  I  grew blind with terror.  But instead of ordering the book away, he 
said he envied me.  Ah, well he might!

The purchase and the first half-hour at home, that was the summit.   Thenceforth the interest
declined by little and little.  The fable,  as set forth in the play-book, proved to be not
worthy of the  scenes and characters: what fable would not?  Such passages as:  "Scene 6. The
Hermitage.  Night set scene.  Place back of scene 1,  No. 2, at back of stage and hermitage,
Fig. 2, out of set piece, R.  H. in a slanting direction" - such passages, I say, though very
practical, are hardly to be called good reading.  Indeed, as  literature, these dramas did
not much appeal to me.  I forget the  very outline of the plots.  Of THE BLIND BOY, beyond
the fact that  he was a most injured prince and once, I think, abducted, I know  nothing. 
And THE OLD OAK CHEST, what was it all about? that  proscript (1st dress), that prodigious
number of banditti, that old  woman with the broom, and the magnificent kitchen in the third
act  (was it in the third?) - they are all fallen in a deliquium, swim  faintly in my brain,
and mix and vanish.

I cannot deny that joy attended the illumination; nor can I quite  forget that child who, wilfully
foregoing pleasure, stoops to  "twopence coloured."  With crimson lake (hark to the sound of
it -  crimson lake! - the horns of elf-land are not richer on the ear) -  with crimson lake
and Prussian blue a certain purple is to be  compounded which, for cloaks especially, Titian
could not equal.

The latter colour with gamboge, a hated name although an exquisite  pigment, supplied a green
of such a savoury greenness that to-day  my heart regrets it.  Nor can I recall without a tender
weakness  the very aspect of the water where I dipped my brush.  Yes, there  was pleasure in
the painting.  But when all was painted, it is  needless to deny it, all was spoiled.  You
might, indeed, set up a  scene or two to look at; but to cut the figures out was simply  sacrilege;
nor could any child twice court the tedium, the worry,  and the long-drawn disenchantment of
an actual performance.  Two  days after the purchase the honey had been sucked.  Parents used
to  complain; they thought I wearied of my play.  It was not so: no  more than a person can
be said to have wearied of his dinner when  he leaves the bones and dishes; I had got the marrow
of it and said  grace.

Then was the time to turn to the back of the play-book and to study  that enticing double file
of names, where poetry, for the true  child of Skelt, reigned happy and glorious like her Majesty
the  Queen.  Much as I have travelled in these realms of gold, I have  yet seen, upon that
map or abstract, names of El Dorados that still  haunt the ear of memory, and are still but
names.  THE FLOATING  BEACON - why was that denied me? or THE WRECK ASHORE?  SIXTEEN- STRING
JACK whom I did not even guess to be a highwayman, troubled  me awake and haunted my slumbers;
and there is one sequence of  three from that enchanted calender that I still at times recall,
like a loved verse of poetry: LODOISKA, SILVER PALACE, ECHO OF  WESTMINSTER BRIDGE.  Names,
bare names, are surely more to children  than we poor, grown-up, obliterated fools remember.

The name of Skelt itself has always seemed a part and parcel of the  charm of his productions.
It may be different with the rose, but  the attraction of this paper drama sensibly declined
when Webb had  crept into the rubric: a poor cuckoo, flaunting in Skelt's nest.   And now we
have reached Pollock, sounding deeper gulfs.  Indeed,  this name of Skelt appears so stagey
and piratic, that I will adopt  it boldly to design these qualities.  Skeltery, then, is a
quality  of much art.  It is even to be found, with reverence be it said,  among the works
of nature.  The stagey is its generic name; but it  is an old, insular, home-bred staginess;
not French, domestically  British; not of to-day, but smacking of O. Smith, Fitzball, and the
great age of melodrama: a peculiar fragrance haunting it; uttering  its unimportant message
in a tone of voice that has the charm of  fresh antiquity.  I will not insist upon the art
of Skelt's  purveyors.  These wonderful characters that once so thrilled our  soul with their
bold attitude, array of deadly engines and  incomparable costume, to-day look somewhat pallidly;
the extreme  hard favour of the heroine strikes me, I had almost said with pain;  the villain's
scowl no longer thrills me like a trumpet; and the  scenes themselves, those once unparalleled
landscapes, seem the  efforts of a prentice hand.  So much of fault we find; but on the  other
side the impartial critic rejoices to remark the presence of  a great unity of gusto; of those
direct clap-trap appeals, which a  man is dead and buriable when he fails to answer; of the
footlight  glamour, the ready-made, bare-faced, transpontine picturesque, a  thing not one
with cold reality, but how much dearer to the mind!

The scenery of Skeltdom - or, shall we say, the kingdom of  Transpontus? - had a prevailing
character.  Whether it set forth  Poland as in THE BLIND BOY, or Bohemia with THE MILLER AND
HIS MEN,  or Italy with THE OLD OAK CHEST, still it was Transpontus.  A  botanist could tell
it by the plants.  The hollyhock was all  pervasive, running wild in deserts; the dock was
common, and the  bending reed; and overshadowing these were poplar, palm, potato  tree, and
QUERCUS SKELTICA - brave growths.  The caves were all  embowelled in the Surreyside formation;
the soil was all betrodden  by the light pump of T. P. Cooke.  Skelt, to be sure, had yet 
another, an oriental string: he held the gorgeous east in fee; and  in the new quarter of Hyeres,
say, in the garden of the Hotel des  Iles d'Or, you may behold these blessed visions realised.
But on  these I will not dwell; they were an outwork; it was in the  accidental scenery that
Skelt was all himself.  It had a strong  flavour of England; it was a sort of indigestion of
England and  drop-scenes, and I am bound to say was charming.  How the roads  wander, how the
castle sits upon the hill, how the sun eradiates  from behind the cloud, and how the congregated
clouds themselves  up-roll, as stiff as bolsters!  Here is the cottage interior, the  usual
first flat, with the cloak upon the nail, the rosaries of  onions, the gun and powder-horn
and corner-cupboard; here is the  inn (this drama must be nautical, I foresee Captain Luff
and Bold  Bob Bowsprit) with the red curtain, pipes, spittoons, and eight-day  clock; and there
again is that impressive dungeon with the chains,  which was so dull to colour.  England, the
hedgerow elms, the thin  brick houses, windmills, glimpses of the navigable Thames -  England,
when at last I came to visit it, was only Skelt made  evident: to cross the border was, for
the Scotsman, to come home to  Skelt; there was the inn-sign and there the horse-trough, all
foreshadowed in the faithful Skelt.  If, at the ripe age of  fourteen years, I bought a certain
cudgel, got a friend to load it,  and thenceforward walked the tame ways of the earth my own
ideal,  radiating pure romance - still I was but a puppet in the hand of  Skelt; the original
of that regretted bludgeon, and surely the  antitype of all the bludgeon kind, greatly improved
from  Cruikshank, had adorned the hand of Jonathan Wild, pl. I.  "This is  mastering me," as
Whitman cries, upon some lesser provocation.   What am I? what are life, art, letters, the
world, but what my  Skelt has made them?  He stamped himself upon my immaturity.  The  world
was plain before I knew him, a poor penny world; but soon it  was all coloured with romance.
If I go to the theatre to see a  good old melodrama, 'tis but Skelt a little faded.  If I visit
a  bold scene in nature, Skelt would have been bolder; there had been  certainly a castle on
that mountain, and the hollow tree - that set  piece - I seem to miss it in the foreground.
Indeed, out of this  cut-and-dry, dull, swaggering, obtrusive, and infantile art, I seem  to
have learned the very spirit of my life's enjoyment; met there  the shadows of the characters
I was to read about and love in a  late future; got the romance of DER FREISCHUTZ long ere
I was to  hear of Weber or the mighty Formes; acquired a gallery of scenes  and characters
with which, in the silent theatre of the brain, I  might enact all novels and romances; and
took from these rude cuts  an enduring and transforming pleasure.  Reader - and yourself?

A word of moral: it appears that B. Pollock, late J. Redington, No.  73 Hoxton Street, not
only publishes twenty-three of these old  stage favourites, but owns the necessary plates and
displays a  modest readiness to issue other thirty-three.  If you love art,  folly, or the
bright eyes of children, speed to Pollock's, or to  Clarke's of Garrick Street.  In Pollock's
list of publicanda I  perceive a pair of my ancient aspirations: WRECK ASHORE and  SIXTEEN-STRING
JACK; and I cherish the belief that when these shall  see once more the light of day, B. Pollock
will remember this  apologist.  But, indeed, I have a dream at times that is not all a  dream.
I seem to myself to wander in a ghostly street - E. W., I  think, the postal district - close
below the fool's-cap of St.  Paul's, and yet within easy hearing of the echo of the Abbey 
bridge.  There in a dim shop, low in the roof and smelling strong  of glue and footlights,
I find myself in quaking treaty with great  Skelt himself, the aboriginal all dusty from the
tomb.  I buy, with  what a choking heart - I buy them all, all but the pantomimes; I  pay my
mental money, and go forth; and lo! the packets are dust.

CHAPTER XIV. A GOSSIP ON A NOVEL OF DUMAS'S

THE books that we re-read the oftenest are not always those that we  admire the most; we choose
and we re-visit them for many and  various reasons, as we choose and revisit human friends.
One or  two of Scott's novels, Shakespeare, Moliere, Montaigne, THE EGOIST,  and the VICOMTE
DE BRAGELONNE, form the inner circle of my  intimates.  Behind these comes a good troop of
dear acquaintances;  THE PILGRIM'S PROGRESS in the front rank, THE BIBLE IN SPAIN not  far
behind.  There are besides a certain number that look at me  with reproach as I pass them by
on my shelves: books that I once  thumbed and studied: houses which were once like home to
me, but  where I now rarely visit.  I am on these sad terms (and blush to  confess it) with
Wordsworth, Horace, Burns and Hazlitt.  Last of  all, there is the class of book that has its
hour of brilliancy -  glows, sings, charms, and then fades again into insignificance  until
the fit return.  Chief of those who thus smile and frown on  me by turns, I must name Virgil
and Herrick, who, were they but

"Their sometime selves the same throughout the year,"

must have stood in the first company with the six names of my  continual literary intimates.
To these six, incongruous as they  seem, I have long been faithful, and hope to be faithful
to the day  of death.  I have never read the whole of Montaigne, but I do not  like to be long
without reading some of him, and my delight in what  I do read never lessens.  Of Shakespeare
I have read all but  RICHARD III, HENRY VI., TITUS ANDRONICAS, and ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS  WELL;
and these, having already made all suitable endeavour, I now  know that I shall never read
- to make up for which unfaithfulness  I could read much of the rest for ever.  Of Moliere
- surely the  next greatest name of Christendom - I could tell a very similar  story; but in
a little corner of a little essay these princes are  too much out of place, and I prefer to
pay my fealty and pass on.   How often I have read GUY MANNERING, ROB ROY, OR REDGAUNTLET,
I  have no means of guessing, having begun young.  But it is either  four or five times that
I have read THE EGOIST, and either five or  six that I have read the VICOMTE DE BRAGELONNE.

Some, who would accept the others, may wonder that I should have  spent so much of this brief
life of ours over a work so little  famous as the last.  And, indeed, I am surprised myself;
not at my  own devotion, but the coldness of the world.  My acquaintance with  the VICOMTE
began, somewhat indirectly, in the year of grace 1863,  when I had the advantage of studying
certain illustrated dessert  plates in a hotel at Nice.  The name of d'Artagnan in the legends
I  already saluted like an old friend, for I had met it the year  before in a work of Miss
Yonge's.  My first perusal was in one of  those pirated editions that swarmed at that time
out of Brussels,  and ran to such a troop of neat and dwarfish volumes.  I understood  but
little of the merits of the book; my strongest memory is of the  execution of d'Eymeric and
Lyodot - a strange testimony to the  dulness of a boy, who could enjoy the rough-and-tumble
in the Place  de Greve, and forget d'Artagnan's visits to the two financiers.  My  next reading
was in winter-time, when I lived alone upon the  Pentlands.  I would return in the early night
from one of my  patrols with the shepherd; a friendly face would meet me in the  door, a friendly
retriever scurry upstairs to fetch my slippers;  and I would sit down with the VICOMTE for
a long, silent, solitary  lamp-light evening by the fire.  And yet I know not why I call it
silent, when it was enlivened with such a clatter of horse-shoes,  and such a rattle of musketry,
and such a stir of talk; or why I  call those evenings solitary in which I gained so many friends.
I  would rise from my book and pull the blind aside, and see the snow  and the glittering hollies
chequer a Scotch garden, and the winter  moonlight brighten the white hills.  Thence I would
turn again to  that crowded and sunny field of life in which it was so easy to  forget myself,
my cares, and my surroundings: a place busy as a  city, bright as a theatre, thronged with
memorable faces, and  sounding with delightful speech.  I carried the thread of that epic 
into my slumbers, I woke with it unbroken, I rejoiced to plunge  into the book again at breakfast,
it was with a pang that I must  lay it down and turn to my own labours; for no part of the
world  has ever seemed to me so charming as these pages, and not even my  friends are quite
so real, perhaps quite so dear, as d'Artagnan.

Since then I have been going to and fro at very brief intervals in  my favourite book; and
I have now just risen from my last (let me  call it my fifth) perusal, having liked it better
and admired it  more seriously than ever.  Perhaps I have a sense of ownership,  being so well
known in these six volumes.  Perhaps I think that  d'Artagnan delights to have me read of him,
and Louis Quatorze is  gratified, and Fouquet throws me a look, and Aramis, although he  knows
I do not love him, yet plays to me with his best graces, as  to an old patron of the show.
Perhaps, if I am not careful,  something may befall me like what befell George IV. about the
battle of Waterloo, and I may come to fancy the VICOMTE one of the  first, and Heaven knows
the best, of my own works.  At least, I  avow myself a partisan; and when I compare the popularity
of the  VICOMTE with that of MONTRO CRISTO, or its own elder brother, the  TROIS MOUSQUETAIRES,
I confess I am both pained and puzzled.

To those who have already made acquaintance with the titular hero  in the pages of VINGT ANS
APRES, perhaps the name may act as a  deterrent.  A man might, well stand back if he supposed
he were to  follow, for six volumes, so well-conducted, so fine-spoken, and  withal so dreary
a cavalier as Bragelonne.  But the fear is idle.   I may be said to have passed the best years
of my life in these six  volumes, and my acquaintance with Raoul has never gone beyond a  bow;
and when he, who has so long pretended to be alive, is at last  suffered to pretend to be dead,
I am sometimes reminded of a saying  in an earlier volume: "ENFIN, DIT MISS STEWART," - and
it was of  Bragelonne she spoke - "ENFIN IL A FAIL QUELQUECHOSE: C'EST, MA  FOI! BIEN HEUREUX."
I am reminded of it, as I say; and the next  moment, when Athos dies of his death, and my dear
d'Artagnan bursts  into his storm of sobbing, I can but deplore my flippancy.

Or perhaps it is La Valliere that the reader of VINGT ANS APRES is  inclined to flee.  Well,
he is right there too, though not so  right.  Louise is no success.  Her creator has spared
no pains; she  is well-meant, not ill-designed, sometimes has a word that rings  out true;
sometimes, if only for a breath, she may even engage our  sympathies.  But I have never envied
the King his triumph.  And so  far from pitying Bragelonne for his defeat, I could wish him
no  worse (not for lack of malice, but imagination) than to be wedded  to that lady.  Madame
enchants me; I can forgive that royal minx  her most serious offences; I can thrill and soften
with the King on  that memorable occasion when he goes to upbraid and remains to  flirt; and
when it comes to the "ALLONS, AIMEZ-MOI DONC," it is my  heart that melts in the bosom of de
Guiche.  Not so with Louise.   Readers cannot fail to have remarked that what an author tells
us  of the beauty or the charm of his creatures goes for nought; that  we know instantly better;
that the heroine cannot open her mouth  but what, all in a moment, the fine phrases of preparation
fall  from round her like the robes from Cinderella, and she stands  before us, self-betrayed,
as a poor, ugly, sickly wench, or perhaps  a strapping market-woman.  Authors, at least, know
it well; a  heroine will too often start the trick of "getting ugly;" and no  disease is more
difficult to cure.  I said authors; but indeed I  had a side eye to one author in particular,
with whose works I am  very well acquainted, though I cannot read them, and who has spent 
many vigils in this cause, sitting beside his ailing puppets and  (like a magician) wearying
his art to restore them to youth and  beauty.  There are others who ride too high for these
misfortunes.   Who doubts the loveliness of Rosalind?  Arden itself was not more  lovely. 
Who ever questioned the perennial charm of Rose Jocelyn,  Lucy Desborough, or Clara Middleton?
fair women with fair names,  the daughters of George Meredith.  Elizabeth Bennet has but to
speak, and I am at her knees.  Ah! these are the creators of  desirable women.  They would
never have fallen in the mud with  Dumas and poor La Valliere.  It is my only consolation that
not one  of all of them, except the first, could have plucked at the  moustache of d'Artagnan.

Or perhaps, again, a proportion of readers stumble at the  threshold.  In so vast a mansion
there were sure to be back stairs  and kitchen offices where no one would delight to linger;
but it  was at least unhappy that the vestibule should be so badly lighted;  and until, in
the seventeenth chapter, d'Artagnan sets off to seek  his friends, I must confess, the book
goes heavily enough.  But,  from thenceforward, what a feast is spread!  Monk kidnapped;  d'Artagnan
enriched; Mazarin's death; the ever delectable adventure  of Belle Isle, wherein Aramis outwits
d'Artagnan, with its epilogue  (vol. v. chap. xxviii.), where d'Artagnan regains the moral
superiority; the love adventures at Fontainebleau, with St.  Aignan's story of the dryad and
the business of de Guiche, de  Wardes, and Manicamp; Aramis made general of the Jesuits; Aramis
at  the bastille; the night talk in the forest of Senart; Belle Isle  again, with the death
of Porthos; and last, but not least, the  taming of d'Artagnan the untamable, under the lash
of the young  King.  What other novel has such epic variety and nobility of  incident? often,
if you will, impossible; often of the order of an  Arabian story; and yet all based in human
nature.  For if you come  to that, what novel has more human nature? not studied with the 
microscope, but seen largely, in plain daylight, with the natural  eye?  What novel has more
good sense, and gaiety, and wit, and  unflagging, admirable literary skill?  Good souls, I
suppose, must  sometimes read it in the blackguard travesty of a translation.  But  there is
no style so untranslatable; light as a whipped trifle,  strong as silk; wordy like a village
tale; pat like a general's  despatch; with every fault, yet never tedious; with no merit, yet
inimitably right.  And, once more, to make an end of commendations,  what novel is inspired
with a more unstained or a more wholesome  morality?

Yes; in spite of Miss Yonge, who introduced me to the name of  d'Artagnan only to dissuade
me from a nearer knowledge of the man,  I have to add morality.  I would scarce send to the
VICOMTE a reader who was  in quest of what we may call puritan morality.  The ventripotent
mulatto, the great cater, worker, earner and waster, the man of  much and witty laughter, the
man of the great heart and alas! of  the doubtful honesty, is a figure not yet clearly set
before the  world; he still awaits a sober and yet genial portrait; but with  whatever art
that may be touched, and whatever indulgence, it will  not be the portrait of a precision.
Dumas was certainly not  thinking of himself, but of Planchet, when he put into the mouth of
d'Artagnan's old servant this excellent profession: "MONSIEUR,  J'ETAIS UNE DE CES BONNES PATES
D'HOMMES QUE DIEU A FAIT POUR  S'ANIMER PENDANT UN CERTAIN TEMPS ET POUR TROUVER BONNES TOUTES
CHOSES QUI ACCOMPAGNENT LEUR SEJOUR SUR LA TERRE."  He was  thinking, as I say, of Planchet,
to whom the words are aptly  fitted; but they were fitted also to Planchet's creator; and 
perhaps this struck him as he wrote, for observe what follows:  "D'ARTAGNAN S'ASSIT ALORS PRES
DE LA FENETRE, ET, CETTE PHILOSOPHIE  DE PLANCHET LUI AYANT PARU SOLIDE, IL Y REVA."  In a
man who finds  all things good, you will scarce expect much zeal for negative  virtues: the
active alone will have a charm for him; abstinence,  however wise, however kind, will always
seem to such a judge  entirely mean and partly impious.  So with Dumas.  Chastity is not  near
his heart; nor yet, to his own sore cost, that virtue of  frugality which is the armour of
the artist.  Now, in the VICOMTE,  he had much to do with the contest of Fouquet and Colbert.
Historic justice should be all upon the side of Colbert, of  official honesty, and fiscal competence.

And Dumas knew it well: three times at least he shows his  knowledge; once it is but flashed
upon us and received with the  laughter of Fouquet himself, in the jesting controversy in the
gardens of Saint Mande; once it is touched on by Aramis in the  forest of Senart; in the end,
it is set before us clearly in one  dignified speech of the triumphant Colbert.  But in Fouquet,
the  waster, the lover of good cheer and wit and art, the swift  transactor of much business,
"L'HOMME DE BRUIT, L'HOMME DE PLAISIR,  L'HOMME QUI N'EST QUE PARCEQUE LES AUTRES SONT," Dumas
saw  something of himself and drew the figure the more tenderly.  It is  to me even touching
to see how he insists on Fouquet's honour; not  seeing, you might think, that unflawed honour
is impossible to  spendthrifts; but rather, perhaps, in the light of his own life,  seeing
it too well, and clinging the more to what was left.  So it is with Fouquet in the book; so
it was with Dumas on the battlefield of life.

To cling to what is left of any damaged quality is virtue in the  man; but perhaps to sing
its praises is scarcely to be called  morality in the writer.  And it is elsewhere, it is in
the  character of d'Artagnan, that we must look for that spirit of  morality, which is one
of the chief merits of the book, makes one  of the main joys of its perusal, and sets it high
above more  popular rivals.  Athos, with the coming of years, has declined too  much into the
preacher, and the preacher of a sapless creed; but  d'Artagnan has mellowed into a man so witty,
rough, kind and  upright, that he takes the heart by storm.  There is nothing of the  copy-book
about his virtues, nothing of the drawing-room in his  fine, natural civility; he will sail
near the wind; he is no  district visitor - no Wesley or Robespierre; his conscience is void
of all refinement whether for good or evil; but the whole man rings  true like a good sovereign.
Readers who have approached the  VICOMTE, not across country, but by the legitimate, five-volumed
avenue of the MOUSQUETAIRES and VINGT ANS APRES, will not have  forgotten d'Artagnan's ungentlemanly
and perfectly improbable trick  upon Milady.  What a pleasure it is, then, what a reward, and
how  agreeable a lesson, to see the old captain humble himself to the  son of the man whom
he had personated!  Here, and throughout, if I  am to choose virtues for myself or my friends,
let me choose the  virtues of d'Artagnan.  I do not say there is no character as well  drawn
in Shakespeare; I do say there is none that I love so wholly.   There are many spiritual eyes
that seem to spy upon our actions -  eyes of the dead and the absent, whom we imagine to behold
us in  our most private hours, and whom we fear and scruple to offend: our  witnesses and judges.

There is yet another point in the VICOMTE which I find  incomparable.  I can recall no other
work of the imagination in  which the end of life is represented with so nice a tact.  I was
asked the other day if Dumas made me laugh or cry.  Well in this my  late fifth reading of
the VICOMTE, I did laugh once at the small  Coquelin de Voliere business, and was perhaps a
thought surprised  at having done so: to make up for it, I smiled continually.  But  for tears,
I do not know.  If you put a pistol to my throat, I must  own the tale trips upon a very airy
foot - within a measurable  distance of unreality; and for those who like the big guns to be
discharged and the great passions to appear authentically, it may  even seem inadequate from
first to last.  Not so to me; I cannot  count that a poor dinner, or a poor book, where I meet
with those I  love; and, above all, in this last volume, I find a singular charm  of spirit.
It breathes a pleasant and a tonic sadness, always  brave, never hysterical.  Upon the crowded,
noisy life of this long  tale, evening gradually falls; and the lights are extinguished, and
the heroes pass away one by one.  One by one they go, and not a  regret embitters their departure;
the young succeed them in their  places, Louis Quatorze is swelling larger and shining broader,
another generation and another France dawn on the horizon; but for  us and these old men whom
we have loved so long, the inevitable end  draws near and is welcome.  To read this well is
to anticipate  experience.  Ah, if only when these hours of the long shadows fall  for us in
reality and not in figure, we may hope to face them with  a mind as quiet!

But my paper is running out; the siege guns are firing on the Dutch  frontier; and I must say
adieu for the fifth time to my old comrade  fallen on the field of glory.  ADIEU - rather AU
REVOIR!  Yet a  sixth time, dearest d'Artagnan, we shall kidnap Monk and take horse  together
for Belle Isle.

CHAPTER XV.  Other spots again seem to abide their  destiny, suggestive and impenetrable, "miching
mallecho."

CHAPTER XVI. A HUMBLE REMONSTRANCE (11)

WE have recently (12) enjoyed a quite peculiar pleasure: hearing,  in some detail, the opinions,
about the art they practise, of Mr.  Walter Besant and Mr. Henry James; two men certainly of
very  different calibre: Mr. James so precise of outline, so cunning of  fence, so scrupulous
of finish, and Mr. Besant so genial, so  friendly, with so persuasive and humorous a vein of
whim: Mr. James  the very type of the deliberate artist, Mr. Besant the  impersonation of good
nature.  That such doctors should differ will  excite no great surprise; but one point in which
they seem to agree  fills me, I confess, with wonder.  For they are both content to  talk about
the "art of fiction"; and Mr. Besant, waxing exceedingly  bold, goes on to oppose this so-called
"art of fiction" to the "art  of poetry."  By the art of poetry he can mean nothing but the
art  of verse, an art of handicraft, and only comparable with the art of  prose.  For that
heat and height of sane emotion which we agree to  call by the name of poetry, is but a libertine
and vagrant quality;  present, at times, in any art, more often absent from them all; too 
seldom present in the prose novel, too frequently absent from the  ode and epic.  Fiction is
the same case; it is no substantive art,  but an element which enters largely into all the
arts but  architecture.  Homer, Wordsworth, Phidias, Hogarth, and Salvini,  all deal in fiction;
and yet I do not suppose that either Hogarth  or Salvini, to mention but these two, entered
in any degree into  the scope of Mr. Besant's interesting lecture or Mr. James's  charming
essay.  The art of fiction, then, regarded as a  definition, is both too ample and too scanty.
Let me suggest  another; let me suggest that what both Mr. James and Mr. Besant had  in view
was neither more nor less than the art of narrative.

But Mr. Besant is anxious to speak solely of "the modern English  novel," the stay and bread-winner
of Mr. Mudie; and in the author  of the most pleasing novel on that roll, ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS
OF MEN, the desire is natural enough.  I can conceive, then, that  he would hasten to propose
two additions, and read thus: the art of  FICTITIOUS narrative IN PROSE.

