One of the principal objections to the Articles of Confederation--that they lacked a practical
amending power--applies, then, with no less force to the Constitution itself. In one respect
the Constitution is even more rigid than were the Articles of Confederation, since the Congress
of the Confederation was the court of last resort for passing on the constitutionality of its
own legislation. This gave to Congress under the Confederation at least a limited power of
virtually amending the Articles of Confederation by the ordinary process of law-making--a power
possessed by the legislature in all countries where the system of checks and balances is not
recognized. Under the Constitution, however, this power to amend the fundamental law can be
exercised only to a very limited extent by Congress, since the interpretation of the Constitution
by that body for the purposes of law-making is subject to revision at the hands of the Federal
Judiciary. The Constitution, then, more effectually prevents changes desired by the majority
than did the Articles of Confederation, since the former guards against the possibility of
amendment under the guise of ordinary legislation while the latter did not.

Another distinction must be borne in mind. The Articles of Confederation made amendment difficult
in order to prevent the general government from encroaching on the rights of the several states.
It was not so much a disposition to make change impossible, or even difficult, as, by keeping
the general government within established bounds, to leave the several states free to regulate
their own affairs and change their institutions from time to time to suit themselves.

This view finds support in the character of the early state constitutions. These were shaped
by the same revolutionary movement which produced the Declaration of Independence, and were
largely influenced in their practical working by the "self-evident" truths proclaimed in the
latter. One of the axioms of political science embodied in the Declaration of Independence
was the right of the people to alter or abolish the existing form of government. This principle,
however, was expressly recognized in but few of the earlier state constitutions, which, as
a rule, contained no provision for future amendment. But such provision was not really necessary,
inasmuch as the power of the legislature was limited only by its responsibility to the electorate.
A mere majority of the qualified voters might demand and secure the enactment of laws which
would virtually amend the constitution. From this time on, however, we see a strong tendency
to specify in the constitution itself the manner in which it could be changed; and by the time
that the framers of the Federal Constitution met in Philadelphia in 1787 a majority of the
state constitutions contained provisions of this kind.

According to the Maryland constitution of 1776 it was necessary that an amendment should "pass
the General Assembly, and be published at least three months before a new election" and confirmed
by the General Assembly in the first session after such election.[51] The South Carolina constitution
of 1778 permitted "a majority of the members of the senate and house of representatives" to
adopt amendments after having given ninety days' notice of such intention. The constitution
of Delaware, 1776, required that constitutional amendments should be assented to by five-sevenths
of the lower house and seven-ninths of the upper. This check on amendment was largely inoperative,
however, for the reason above mentioned, viz., that the legislature was supreme, and could
enact by majority vote such laws as it saw fit, whether they were in harmony with the constitution
or not.

Five other state constitutions made provision for the adoption of amendments by conventions.
The Pennsylvania constitution of 1776 provided for the election every seventh year by the freemen
of the state of a "Council of Censors" to hold office during one year from the date of their
election. This body had the power "to pass public censures, to order impeachments, and to recommend
to the legislature the repealing such laws as appear to them to have been enacted contrary
to the principles of the constitution." They also had power to call a convention for amending
the constitution. "But ... the amendments proposed ... shall be promulgated at least six months
before the day appointed for the election of such convention, for the previous consideration
of the people, that they may have an opportunity of instructing their delegates on the subject."
This provision of the Pennsylvania constitution of 1776 was copied in the Vermont constitution
of 1777. The constitution of Georgia, 1777, contained the following: "No alteration shall be
made in this constitution without petitions from a majority of the counties, and the petition
from each county to be signed by a majority of the voters in each county within this state;
at which time the assembly shall order a convention to be called for that purpose, specifying
the alterations to be made, according to the petitions preferred to the assembly by the majority
of the counties as aforesaid." The Massachusetts constitution of 1780 provided that the question
of amendment should be submitted to the qualified voters of the state, and if two-thirds of
those voting favored amendment, it was the duty of the legislature to order the election of
delegates to meet in convention for that purpose. The New Hampshire constitution of 1784 contained
a similar provision.

We see, then, that several of the early state constitutions expressly gave, either directly
to a majority of the qualified voters, or to their representatives, the right to amend; and
even in Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Delaware, whose constitutions expressly limited the
power of the majority, the limitation was not effective, since the majority could push through
under the guise of ordinary legislation, measures which virtually amounted to an exercise of
the amending power. Such limitations on the power of the majority did not become effective
until a judiciary not directly responsible to the people, acquired the right to declare acts
of the legislature null and void.

An examination of these features of the various state constitutions in force in 1787 shows
clearly the reactionary character of the Federal Constitution. It repudiated entirely the doctrine
then expressly recognized in some of the states and virtually in all, that a majority of the
qualified voters could amend the fundamental law. And not only did it go farther than any state
constitution in expressly limiting the power of the majority, but it provided what no state
constitution had done--the means by which its limitations on the power of the majority could
be enforced.

A comparison of this feature of our Constitution with the method of amendment in other countries
is interesting and instructive. In England no distinction is made between constitutional amendments
and other legislation. And since the Crown has lost the veto power and the House of Commons
established its right to override the opposition of the House of Lords, the most radical changes
may be made without even the checks which impede ordinary legislation in the United States.

In France amendment of the Constitution is almost as easy as in England, though a distinction
is made between this and ordinary legislation. When both the Senate and Chamber of Deputies
decide by an absolute majority in each that amendment is necessary, they meet in joint session
as a National Assembly for that purpose. An absolute majority of the members composing the
National Assembly is required to change the Constitution.

Amendments to the Federal Constitution of Australia may be proposed by an absolute majority
of both Houses of Parliament. Not less than two nor more than six months after the proposed
amendment has been passed by both houses, it must be submitted to the qualified voters in each
state. But if either house by an absolute majority passes a proposed amendment which is rejected
by the other house, and passes it again by an absolute majority after an interval of three
months, the Governor-General may submit the proposed amendment to the qualified voters. A proposed
amendment is adopted if it is approved by a majority of all those voting and also by a majority
in a majority of the states.

In Switzerland the question whether the Federal Constitution ought to be amended must be submitted
to a popular vote whenever demanded by either house of the Federal Assembly or by fifty thousand
voters (about one-fifteenth of the voting population). A proposed amendment is adopted if it
receives a majority of all the votes cast and at the same time a majority in a majority of
the Cantons, a provision copied, as we have seen, in the Federal Constitution of Australia.

These constitutions show the general tendency at the present time to make the majority supreme.
In the countries which have been most influenced by democratic ideas constitutional barriers
against change have largely or wholly disappeared. A constitution is in no proper sense the
embodiment of the will of the people unless it recognizes the right of the majority to amend.
Checks which prevent legal and political readjustment are a survival from monarchy and aristocracy
and are not found in any full-fledged democracy. Constitutions which are really democratic
contain only such checks upon the people, if indeed they can be called checks, as are calculated
to insure the deliberate expression of the popular will. Constitutional provisions designed
to obstruct amendment are not only an anomaly in popular government, but they are in the very
nature of the case inoperative. This follows from the fact that the law-making body, whether
it be the people themselves or a representative assembly, is the final interpreter of the constitution
and may enact laws which virtually amend it. To make such provisions really effective the constitution
must vest the power to prevent legislation in some branch of government not directly responsible
to the people. Usually this is a King or hereditary class. Our Constitution, however, provides
a substitute for these in its general system of checks and especially in the independence of
our national judiciary, which in addition to the exercise of ordinary judicial functions is
also practically a branch of the legislature. The constitutional status of the judiciary will
be discussed in the following chapter.

CHAPTER V

THE FEDERAL JUDICIARY

No part of our Constitution has received less adverse criticism than that which relates to
the powers and tenure of the judiciary. Constitutional writers have almost without exception
given it their unqualified approval, claiming that its wisdom is established beyond question
by the political experience of the English-speaking race. To express a doubt as to the soundness
of this view is to take issue with what appears to be the settled and mature judgment of the
American people.

Moreover, the authority of the courts is "the most vital part of our government, the part on
which the whole system hinges."[52] This is true for the reason that the Federal judiciary
is not only the most important of our constitutional checks on the people, but is also the
means of preserving and enforcing all the other checks. To enable the Federal judges to exercise
these important and far-reaching powers, it was necessary to make them independent by giving
them a life tenure. This provision was in perfect harmony with the general plan and purpose
of the Constitution, a document framed, as we have seen, with a view to placing effectual checks
on the power of the majority. As a means to the end which the framers of the Constitution had
in view, the independence of the judiciary was an admirable arrangement.

Hamilton says: "Upon the whole, there can be no room to doubt that the Convention acted wisely
in copying from the models of those constitutions which have established good behavior as the
tenure of their judicial offices, in point of duration; and that so far from being blamable
on this account, their plan would have been inexcusably defective, if it had wanted this important
feature of good government. The experience of Great Britain affords an illustrious comment
on the excellence of the institution."[53]

This is quoted with approval by Story in his Commentaries on the Constitution and this same
line of argument has been followed by legal and political writers generally. But with all due
respect for the eminent authorities who have placed so much stress on the political experience
of other countries, we may venture to ask if the parallel which they have assumed really exists.
Is the use made of this argument from analogy warranted by the facts in the case? Are we sure
that the political experience of England proves the wisdom of an independent judiciary? This
can best be answered by referring to the circumstances which gave rise to the doctrine that
the judges should be independent.

In England formerly the Crown appointed the judges and could remove them. This power of appointment
and removal placed the courts under the control of the King and made it possible for him to
use them as a means of oppressing the people. A striking example of the way in which this power
could be abused was seen in the career of the notorious Jeffreys, the pliant judicial tool
of the cruel and tyrannical James II. To guard against a repetition of this experience it was
urged that the judges be made independent of the King.

This was done in 1701 by the Act of Settlement which provided that judges should be removed
only on an address from Parliament to the Crown. This deprived the King of the power to remove
judges on his own initiative and virtually gave it to Parliament. The object of this provision
was to place a check in the interest of the people upon the arbitrary power of the Crown. It
made the judges independent of the King, but at the same time established their responsibility
to Parliament by giving the latter the right to demand their removal.[54]

The statement so often made and so generally believed that the American judicial system was
modeled after that of Great Britain will not bear investigation. English judges are not and
never have been independent in the sense in which that word is used with reference to the Federal
judiciary of the United States. In making the judges independent of the King, Parliament had
no intention of leaving them free to exercise irresponsible powers. To have made them really
independent would have been to create a new political power of essentially the same character
and no less dangerous than the power of the King which they were seeking to circumscribe. The
judges there do not constitute a co-ordinate branch of the government and can not enforce their
opinion in opposition to that of Parliament. Instead of being independent, they are strictly
dependent upon Parliament whose supreme power and authority they are compelled to respect.

This being the case, it is hardly necessary to observe that the courts in England do not exercise
legislative functions. The power to decide upon the wisdom or expediency of legislation is
vested exclusively in Parliament. The courts can not disregard a statute on the ground that
it is in conflict with the Constitution, but must enforce whatever Parliament declares to be
the law. As the judiciary under the English system has no voice in the general policy of the
state, the tenure of judges during good behavior carries with it no power to thwart the popular
will.

The provision in the Constitution of the United States for the life tenure of a non-elective
judiciary serves, however, an altogether different purpose. It was designed as a check, not
upon an irresponsible executive as was the case in England, but upon the people themselves.
Its aim was not to increase, but to diminish popular control over the government. Hence, though
professing to follow the English model, the framers of the Constitution as a matter of fact
rejected it. They not only gave the Federal judges a life tenure, but made that tenure unqualified
and absolute, the power which Parliament had to demand the removal of judges being carefully
witheld from the American Congress. This reversed the relation which existed between the legislative
and judicial branches of government under the English system and raised the judiciary from
a dependent and subordinate position to one that made it in many respects supreme. The most
important attribute of sovereignty, that of interpreting the Constitution for the purposes
of law-making, which belonged to Parliament as a matter of course, was withheld from Congress
and conferred upon the Federal judiciary. Not only, then, did the framers of the Constitution
depart from the English model in making the Federal judiciary independent of Congress, but
they went much farther than this and conferred upon the body whose independence and irresponsibility
were thus secured, powers which under the English system were regarded as the exclusive prerogative
of a responsible Parliament. This made our Supreme judges, though indirectly appointed, holding
office for life and therefore independent of the people, the final interpreters of the Constitution,
with power to enforce their interpretation by declaring legislation null and void. A more powerful
check upon democratic innovation it would be hard to devise.

The main reason for making the Federal judges independent and politically irresponsible has
not been generally recognized. Thus, in a recent work Professor Channing, while expressing
some disapproval of this feature of our system, fails to offer a satisfactory explanation of
its origin. "Perhaps nothing in the Constitution of the United States is more extraordinary,"
he tells us, "than the failure of that instrument to provide any means for getting rid of the
judges of the Federal courts except by the process of impeachment. In England, in Massachusetts
and in Pennsylvania, judges could be removed by the executive upon address by both branches
of the legislative body.[56] In none of these cases was it necessary to allege or to prove
any criminal act on the part of the judge. In colonial days the tenure of the judicial office
had been of the weakest. In the royal provinces, the judges had been appointed by the Crown
and had been removable at pleasure. In the charter colonies, the judges had been appointed
by the legislature, and their tenure of office was generally for one year. The precariousness
of the judicial office in the royal provinces had more than once led to attempts on the part
of the colonists to secure greater permanency, because a permanent judiciary would afford them
protection against the royal authorities. All attempts of this kind, however, had been defeated
by the negative voice of the government of England. Possibly the permanence of judicial tenure
which is found in the Constitution of the United States may be regarded in some sort as the
result of this pre-revolutionary contest."[57]

As a matter of fact, however, there is nothing extraordinary or difficult to explain in this
permanency of judicial tenure which the Constitution established. It was not in the charter
colonies where annual legislative appointment of judges was the rule, but in the royal provinces
that efforts were made by the people to secure greater permanency of judicial tenure. They
wished to give the judges more independence in the latter, because it would be the means of
placing a check upon irresponsible authority, but were satisfied with a short term of office
for judges in the colonies where they were elected and controlled by the legislature. Any explanation
of the permanent tenure of our Federal judges "as the result of this pre-revolutionary contest"
is insufficient. It was clearly a device consciously adopted by the framers of the Constitution,
not for the purpose of limiting irresponsible authority, but for the purpose of setting up
an authority that would be in large measure politically irresponsible.

Conservative writers while giving unstinted praise to this feature of the Constitution have
not explained its real significance. They have assumed, and expect us to take it for granted,
that the Federal judiciary was designed as a means of making the will of the people supreme;
that its independence and exalted prerogatives were necessary to enable it to protect the people
against usurpation and oppression at the hands of the legislative branch of the government.

Hamilton tells us, "The standard of good behavior for the continuance in office of the judicial
magistracy, is certainly one of the most valuable of the modern improvements in the practice
of government. In a monarchy, it is an excellent barrier to the despotism of the prince; in
a republic, it is a no less excellent barrier to the encroachments and oppressions of the representative
body....

"The complete independence of the courts of justice is peculiarly essential in a limited constitution.
By a limited constitution, I understand one which contains certain specified exceptions to
the legislative authority.... Limitations of this kind can be preserved in practice no other
way than through the medium of the courts of justice, whose duty it must be to declare all
acts contrary to the manifest tenor of the Constitution void....[58]

"Some perplexity respecting the rights of the courts to pronounce legislative acts void, because
contrary to the Constitution, has arisen from an imagination that the doctrine would imply
a superiority of the judiciary to the legislative power. It is urged that the authority which
can declare the acts of another void, must necessarily be superior to the one whose acts may
be declared void....

"There is no position which depends on clearer principles, than that every act of a delegated
authority, contrary to the tenor of the commission under which it is exercised, is void. No
legislative act, therefore, contrary to the Constitution, can be valid. To deny this would
be to affirm that the deputy is greater than his principal; that the servant is above his master;
that the representatives of the people are superior to the people themselves; that men, acting
by virtue of powers, may do not only what their powers do not authorize, but what they forbid.

"If it be said that the legislative body are themselves the constitutional judges of their
own powers, and that the construction they put upon them is conclusive upon the other departments,
it may be answered, that this can not be the natural presumption, where it is not to be collected
from any particular provisions in the Constitution. It is not otherwise to be supposed that
the Constitution could intend to enable the representatives of the people to substitute their
will to that of their constituents. It is far more rational to suppose that the courts were
designed to be an intermediate body between the people and the legislature, in order, among
other things, to keep the latter within the limits assigned to their authority. The interpretation
of the laws is the proper and peculiar province of the courts. A constitution is, in fact,
and must be, regarded by the judges as a fundamental law. It therefore belongs to them to ascertain
its meaning, as well as the meaning of any particular act proceeding from the legislative body.
If there should happen to be an irreconcilable variance between the two, that which has the
superior obligation and validity ought, of course, to be preferred; in other words, the Constitution
ought to be preferred to the statute, the intention of the people to the intention of their
agents....

"This independence of the judges is equally requisite to guard the Constitution and the rights
of individuals from the effects of those ill humours which the arts of designing men, or the
influence of particular conjunctures, sometimes disseminate among the people themselves, and
which, though they speedily give place to better information, and more deliberate reflection,
have a tendency, in the mean time, to occasion dangerous innovations in the government, and
serious oppressions of the minor party in the community."[59]

This argument for an independent judiciary, which has been adopted by all writers who have
attempted to defend the system, may be summarized as follows:

The Constitution being the solemn and deliberate expression of the will of the people, is the
supreme law of the land. As such it enumerates the powers of the several branches of the government
and sets limits to their authority. Any act, therefore, on the part of the agents or representatives
of the people, which exceeds the authority thus delegated, is in violation of the fundamental
law and can not bind those whom they profess to represent.

These checks upon the agents and representatives of the people can not be enforced, however,
if each branch of the government is to be permitted to determine for itself what powers the
Constitution has conferred upon it. Under such a system Congress would overstep the limits
which have been placed upon its authority and substitute its own will for the will of the people.
To prevent this the framers of the Constitution placed the courts, in their scheme of government,
between the people and the legislature and gave them power to determine and enforce the constitutional
limitations on the authority of Congress. This put the Constitution and the rights and liberties
of the people under the protection of their natural guardian, the Federal judiciary, and thereby
secured the people against the danger of legislative tyranny.

We must not forget the circumstances under which Hamilton wrote this defence of the Federal
judiciary. Although the Constitutional Convention had spared no pains to prevent the publication
of its proceedings, the feeling was more or less general that the whole movement was a conspiracy
against popular government.

"The charge of a conspiracy against the liberties of the people," said Hamilton, "which has
been indiscriminately brought against the advocates of the plan [the Constitution], has something
in it too wanton and too malignant not to excite the indignation of every man who feels in
his own bosom a refutation of the calumny. The perpetual changes which have been rung upon
the wealthy, the well-born, and the great, have been such as to inspire the disgust of all
sensible men. And the unwarrantable concealments and misrepresentations which have been in
various ways practiced to keep the truth from the public eye have been of a nature to demand
the reprobation of all honest men."[60]

The evidence now accessible to students of the American Constitution proves that the charges
of "concealments and misrepresentations" made with this show of righteous indignation against
the opponents of the Constitution might have justly been made against Hamilton himself. But
knowing that the views expressed in the Federal Convention were not public property, he could
safely give to the press this "refutation of the calumny."

The publication of the debates on the Constitution at that time would have shown that the apprehensions
of the people were not entirely without justification. The advocates of the new form of government
did not propose to defeat their own plans by declaring their real purpose--by explaining the
Constitution to the people as they themselves understood it. For it was not to be supposed
that the people would permit the adoption of a form of government the avowed object of which
was to limit their power. Therefore the conservatives who framed the Constitution and urged
its ratification posed as the friends of democracy. Professing to act in the name of, and as
the representatives of the people, they urged them to accept the Constitution as a means of
restraining their agents and representatives and thereby making their own will supreme. It
was not the aim of these articles, written, as they were, to influence public opinion, to explain
the real purpose of the Constitution, but rather to disguise its true character.

In this species of political sophistry Hamilton was a master. It is, to say the least, strange
that the misstatement of historical facts, false analogies and juggling of popular catch-words
which constitute his defence of the Federal judiciary should have been so often referred to
as an example of faultless logic and a complete vindication of the system. Hamilton's interpretation
of the Constitution as contained in these articles was merely for popular consumption, and
not a frank and unequivocal expression of what he himself really believed. He was an uncompromising
opponent of democracy and considered the English government of that day, with its hereditary
monarchy and aristocracy, the best form of government ever devised.[61]

He favored therefore as near an approach to the English system as the circumstances of the
case would permit. According to the plan which he submitted to the Convention the executive
branch of the government was to be placed beyond the reach of public opinion by a method of
appointment designed to guard against the choice of a popular favorite and by life tenure.
Not only did he wish to make the President independent of the people, but he proposed to give
him an absolute veto on all acts of Congress. Moreover, the President was to appoint the governors
of the various states, and these, like the royal governors before the Revolution, were to have
an absolute veto on the acts of the state legislatures.[62] This would have made the President
a monarch in all but name, and though independent of the people, have given him power to thwart
legislation which no majority in Congress, however great, could override.

But this did not go far enough in the direction of providing checks on popular legislation
to suit Hamilton. The members of the upper house of Congress were, like the President, to be
indirectly elected and to hold office for life. And finally over and above Congress was to
be placed a Supreme Court whose members, by their mode of appointment and life tenure, were
to be independent of the people. This body, which was to be the final interpreter of the Constitution,
was designed as an additional safeguard against democratic legislation. The lower house of
Congress was the only branch of the government in which any provision was made, under Hamilton's
plan, for the representation of public opinion. Through the House of Representatives the people
were to have an opportunity to propose legislation, but no power to enact it, or to control
the general policy of the government.

The refusal of the Convention to endorse the scheme of government proposed by Hamilton must
not be understood as implying lack of sympathy with the political views which it embodied.
With his main purpose, that of effectually curbing the power of the majority, nearly all the
members of that body were in full accord. They were, however, shrewd experienced men of affairs
who understood the temper of the people and knew that their plan of political reorganization
could be carried through only by disguising its reactionary character and representing it as
a democratic movement. To have submitted the Constitution in the form in which it was proposed
by Hamilton would have defeated their purpose. It was too obviously undemocratic, inasmuch
as it provided for a strong centralized government only one branch of which was to be elected
by the people, while the other three were to be placed beyond the reach of public opinion through
indirect election and life tenure. The Constitution as framed and submitted was more democratic
in appearance, though it really contained all that was essential in Hamilton's plan. Life tenure
for the President and Senate was discarded, it is true, but indirect election was expected
to ensure their independence. The absolute veto on Federal and state legislation which Hamilton
proposed to give to a permanent executive was the most serious practical objection to his scheme,
since it showed too clearly the purpose of the Convention to make the aristocratic element
supreme not only in the general government but in the states as well. In form and appearance
the Constitution merely gave the President a qualified negative on the acts of Congress; but
in reality the Convention went much farther than this and conferred the absolute veto on federal
and state legislation contended for by Hamilton. The power was merely transferred from the
President in whose hands he had proposed to place it, and given to the Supreme Court. The end
which he had in view was thus attained without arousing the opposition which would have been
inevitable had there been anything in the Constitution to indicate that such a power was intended
to be conferred.

These facts disclose the true motive for Hamilton's untiring efforts in behalf of the Constitution.
He desired its adoption, not because he believed that it would make the will of the people
supreme, as his above quoted references to principal and agent and master and servant would
seem to imply, but for the opposite reason that it would make the government largely independent
of public opinion. As a matter of fact, Hamilton had no use whatever for a political system
which assumed that the people were a master or principal and the government merely their servant
or agent. The chief merit of the Constitution from his point of view was not its acceptance,
but its repudiation of this principle. Had it been framed on the theory that the will of the
people is the supreme law of the land, no one would have been more bitterly opposed to its
adoption than Hamilton himself. That he gave it his unqualified support is the best evidence
that he did not believe that it would make the will of the people supreme.

No intelligent man who carefully reads Hamilton's argument in defence of the Federal judiciary
could be misled as to his real views. His dread of democracy is clearly seen in his desire
to exalt the Supreme Court and subordinate Congress, the only branch of the government in which
the people were directly represented. His seeming anxiety lest the legislative body should
disregard the will of the people was a mere demagogic attempt to conceal his real motive. Had
this been what he really feared, the obvious remedy would have been the complete responsibility
of Congress to the people. In fact, this was necessarily implied in the doctrine of principal
and agent which he professed to accept, but which found no recognition either in the constitution
which he himself had suggested, or in the one finally adopted. To this theory of government
the system which he defended was in reality diametrically opposed. Under the guise of protecting
the people against misrepresentation at the hands of Congress, it effectually limited the power
of the people themselves by tying the hands of their responsible agents. It deprived the people
of the power to compel the enactment of law by making the consent of the Supreme Court necessary
to the enforcement of all legislation, federal and state. This was a substantial compliance
with Hamilton's proposal to give an absolute veto to an independent and permanent executive.
It was a matter of but little consequence whether this power was conferred on a single person,
as the President, or on a body, as the Supreme Court, provided the manner of appointment and
tenure of those in whose hands it was placed, were such as to ensure an independent exercise
of the power thus conferred. The result would be the same in either case: the law-making power
would be placed beyond the reach of popular control.

To allow the legislative body to be "the constitutional judges of their own power," Hamilton
tells us, would be to affirm "that the servant is above his master." Hence it is necessary,
he argues, to divest Congress of all authority to determine the extent of its own powers. To
accomplish this the Supreme Court was made the constitutional judge of the powers of Congress
and of its own powers as well. Hamilton's argument involves the assumption that, while it is
dangerous to allow a frequently elected and responsible branch of the government to determine
the extent of its own powers, it is at the same time eminently wise and proper to give, not
only this power, but also the power to determine the authority of all other branches of government,
to a permanent body whom the people neither elect nor control. His constant reference to the
danger of legislative oppression was merely a mask for his hatred of popular government. He
was anxious to curb the power of Congress because he feared that public opinion would too largely
influence the proceedings of that body. On the other hand, he saw no danger of executive or
judicial tyranny since these branches of the government were expected to be independent of
public opinion. Hamilton's purpose was to limit the power of the people by subordinating that
part of the government in which they were directly represented and strengthening those parts
over which they had no direct control. His defence of the Constitution is thus really an argument
against responsible government and a defence of the principles underlying monarchy and aristocracy.

As the English judiciary is really an offshoot from the executive, the power of the court to
declare legislation null and void may be regarded as merely a phase of the executive veto.
No evidence of this can be found, it is true, in the constitutional history of England during
the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. But if we go back to the period preceding the revolution
of 1688, it seems to be clearly established that the English courts claimed, and in a few instances
exercised, the power to annul acts of Parliament. As late as 1686, in the case of Godden v.
Hales, "the Court of King's Bench actually held that important provisions of the statute of
25 Charles II, cap. 2, were void because conflicting with the King's rightful prerogative."[63]
When we remember that the courts were then under the control of the King, it is not surprising
that they should have attempted to exercise this power in defence of the royal prerogative.
But with the Revolution of 1688, which established the supremacy of Parliament, the last trace
of the judicial negative disappeared. From that time on the right of Parliament to be the constitutional
judge of its own powers has not been seriously questioned. Even the veto power of the King
soon became obsolete, though in theory it for a time survived.

Such was the constitutional status of the English judiciary when the American colonies asserted
their independence. The new state constitutions adopted at the outbreak of the war, as has
been shown in a previous chapter, represented the more democratic thought of the period and
were really revolutionary in character. They abolished the veto power of the governor and failed
to abolish the judicial negative only because it did not then exist.[64] This was followed
after the Revolution by a conservative reaction which was not, however, a popular movement.
It received no general support or sympathy from the masses of the people, but was planned and
carried through by those whom we may describe as the ruling class, and who were, for the most
part, strongly in sympathy with English political institutions. It was characterized by real,
if not avowed, hostility to the new political ideas embodied in the Declaration of Independence
and in the Revolutionary state constitutions. Its aim was to reform the state governments by
restoring, as far as possible, the checks on democracy which the Revolutionary movement had
swept away.

The judiciary was the only branch of the state government in which the principle of life tenure
had been retained, and therefore the only one which could be depended on to offer any effectual
resistance to public opinion. Evidently, then, the easiest and most practicable method of accomplishing
the end which the conservative classes had in view was to enlarge the powers of the judiciary.
Accordingly an effort was made at this time in several of the states to revive and develop
the judicial veto. A practical argument in favor of this check was doubtless the fact that
it required no formal changes in the state constitutions, and, for this reason, was less likely
to arouse formidable opposition than any avowed attempt to restore the system of checks.

When the Constitutional Convention met in 1787 the courts in five states were beginning to
claim the power to declare acts of the legislature unconstitutional. In a Virginia case as
early as 1782 the judges of the court of appeals expressed the opinion "that the court had
power to declare any resolution or act of the legislature, or of either branch of it, to be
unconstitutional and void."[65] The court, however, did not exercise the power to which it
laid claim. It merely declared a resolution of the House of Delegates invalid on the ground
that it had been rejected by the Senate. This case is important only as showing that the court
was then paving the way for the exercise of the power to annul acts of the legislature.

The case of Trevett v. Weeden, decided by the Superior Court of Judicature of Rhode Island
in September, 1786, is said to be the first in which a law was declared null and void on the
ground that it was unconstitutional.[66] The court in this case did not expressly say that
the law in question was unconstitutional and therefore void, but it refused to recognize its
validity. The power which the court exercised to ignore a legislative act was promptly repudiated
by the law-making body, and at the expiration of their term of office a few months later, the
judges responsible for this decision were replaced by others. In 1786 or 1787 a case was decided
in Massachusetts, and also one in New Jersey, in which it is claimed that the court declared
a legislative act null and void.

The first reported case in which an act of a legislature was held to be contrary to a written
constitution is that of Bayard v. Singleton, decided by the Superior Court of North Carolina
in May, 1787. James Iredell, afterward a member of the North Carolina convention, held to ratify
the Constitution, and a judge of the United States Supreme Court, and William R. Davie, one
of the framers of the Constitution, were attorneys for the plaintiff, the party in whose interest
the law was declared unconstitutional. This decision received much adverse criticism at the
time. The judges "were fiercely denounced as usurpers of power. Spaight, afterwards governor,
voiced a common notion when he declared that 'the state was subject to the three individuals,
who united in their own persons the legislative and judicial power, which no monarch in England
enjoys, which would be more despotic than the Roman triumvirate and equally insufferable.'"[67]

Iredell, in a letter to Spaight written August 26, 1787, defended the decision as a means of
limiting the power of the majority. "I conceive the remedy of a new election," he says, "to
be of very little consequence, because this would only secure the views of a majority...."[68]
Iredell expressed what was no doubt the real purpose of the judicial veto--the limitation of
the power of the majority.

In eight of the thirteen states the doctrine that the judiciary could refuse to enforce laws
regularly enacted by the legislative body had not even been asserted by the courts themselves,
much less recognized and accepted by the people generally. There is no evidence to warrant
the belief that this power was anywhere claimed or exercised in response to a popular demand
or that it had at this time become a firmly established or generally recognized feature of
any state government.

This being the case, there is no ground for the contention that the power to annul acts of
the legislature was necessarily implied in the general grant of judicial authority contained
in the Constitution. Moreover, it was not expressly conferred, for the Constitution as submitted
and ratified contains no reference to this power.

"There is no provision in the Constitution of the United States ... which clothes the judiciary
with the power to declare an act of the legislature generally null and void on account of its
conceived repugnance to the Constitution or on any other account."[69]

It has been claimed that in this respect our general government is even less democratic than
the framers of the Constitution intended. This view, however, is not borne out by the facts.
The assertion of this far-reaching power by our national judiciary, though not expressly authorized
by the Constitution, was nevertheless in harmony with the general spirit and intention of its
framers. That the members of the Constitutional Convention declined to confer this power in
unequivocal language does not justify the inference that they did not wish and intend that
it should be exercised by the courts.

Gouverneur Morris, who claims to have written the Constitution with his own hand, tells us
that in framing that part of it relating to the judiciary, "it became necessary to select phrases,"
which, expressing his own views, "would not alarm others."[70] There was, it is true, some
objection in the Convention to the doctrine that the Supreme Court should have authority to
decide upon the constitutionality of Congressional legislation. Mercer and Dickinson believed
that this power should not be exercised by the judiciary.[71] But it was contended on the other
hand by Wilson, Luther Martin, Gerry, Mason, and Madison that this power could be exercised
without any provision expressly conferring it.[72]

In view of the fact that it was maintained by leading members of the Convention that this power
could and should be exercised by the Federal judiciary, it is but reasonable to suppose that
a majority of that body wished to confer it; for had this not been the case, the Constitution
as submitted would have contained a provision expressly withholding it. But however much the
Convention may have desired to give to the judiciary the power to veto legislation, it could
not have been done by an express provision of the Constitution. Any such attempt would have
disclosed altogether too clearly the undemocratic reactionary character of the proposed government
and thus have prevented its adoption. This end was attained indirectly through the general
system of checks which the Constitution imposed upon the other branches of the government and
upon the people, since it made it possible for the judiciary to assume and exercise this power.

There is nothing to indicate that the people generally appreciated the significance of this
feature of the Constitution at the time of its ratification. Outside of the Constitutional
Convention the judicial negative appears to have been seldom mentioned. Hamilton, the most
courageous and outspoken opponent of popular government, claimed, it is true, that it would
be the duty of the Federal courts "to declare all acts contrary to the manifest tenor of the
Constitution void."[73] In a few of the state conventions held to ratify the Constitution the
power was referred to. Oliver Ellsworth in the Connecticut convention,[74] James Wilson in
the Pennsylvania convention,[75] and John Marshall in the Virginia convention,[76] expressed
the opinion that the Constitution gave the Supreme Court the power to declare acts of Congress
null and void.

There is no reason for believing, however, that this was the generally accepted notion at that
time. For even Marshall himself a few years later, as attorney in the case of Ware v. Hylton,
which involved the validity of an act of the legislature of Virginia, appears to have defended
the opposite view before the United States Supreme Court. In that case he said:

"The legislative authority of any country can only be restrained by its own municipal constitution:
this is a principle that springs from the very nature of society; and the judicial authority
can have no right to question the validity of a law, unless such a jurisdiction is expressly
given by the Constitution."[77] The mere fact that he presented this argument shows that the
view which he afterwards held as Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court was not then
generally accepted. His contention on this occasion that the judiciary can not annul an act
of the legislature unless the power be expressly conferred may have been at variance with the
opinion which he really held, but it certainly was not opposed to what he regarded as the generally
accepted view; otherwise, his argument would have been based on an admittedly false theory
of judicial powers. The conclusion is irresistible that at this time the right of the judiciary
to declare a legislative act null and void was not generally recognized. The framers of the
Constitution clearly understood that this power was not implied in the sense that it was then
a recognized function of the judiciary, or one necessarily contained in the Constitution as
they interpreted it to the people to secure its adoption. It was by controlling the Executive
and the Senate, and through these the appointment of Supreme judges, that they expected to
incorporate this power in the Constitution and make it a permanent feature of our political
system.[78]

This purpose is evident in the appointments to the Supreme bench made during the twelve years
of Federalist rule that followed the adoption of the Constitution. Of the thirteen chief and
associate Justices appointed during this period, five had been members of the Constitutional
Convention.[79] Eleven had been members of the various state conventions held to ratify the
Constitution.[80] Three, as shown by the records of the federal and state conventions, had
unequivocally expressed themselves in favor of the exercise of this power by the Supreme Court,[81]
while another, James Iredell, had taken an active part in securing the first reported decision
in which an act of a state legislature was declared null and void by a court on the ground
that it was contrary to a written constitution.[82] Only one in this entire list had not taken
part directly in framing or adopting the Constitution by serving as a delegate to the federal,
or a state convention, or both.[83] All had been ardent supporters of the Constitution and
were in full sympathy with its main purpose.

It is true that Washington in the winter of 1795-6 offered the Chief Justiceship of the United
States Supreme Court to Patrick Henry, who had been the ablest and most conspicuous opponent
of the Constitution in the Virginia convention. Henry had, however, as Presidential elector
voted for Washington for President in 1789 and had in the meantime become reconciled to the
Constitution. Moreover, while he had been opposed to many features of the Constitution, he
was from the first in full sympathy with the judicial veto. He thought the Constitution was
defective in that it contained no assurance that such a power would be exercised by the courts.
In his argument against the ratification of the Constitution in the Virginia convention he said:

"The honorable gentleman did our judiciary honor in saying that they had firmness to counteract
the legislature in some cases. Yes, sir, our judges opposed the acts of the legislature. We
have this landmark to guide us. They had fortitude to declare that they were the judiciary,
and would oppose unconstitutional acts. Are you sure that your Federal judiciary will act thus?
Is that judiciary as well constructed, and as independent of the other branches, as our state
judiciary? Where are your landmarks in this government? I will be bold to say that you can
not find any in it. I take it as the highest encomium on this country, that the acts of the
legislature, if unconstitutional, are liable to be opposed by the judiciary."[84]

The fact that only those who were in sympathy with the Constitution were recognized in these
appointments becomes the more significant when we remember that several of the leading states
ratified it by very slender majorities. In New York, Massachusetts, and Virginia the supporters
of the Constitution barely carried the day; yet they alone were recognized in the five appointments
to the Supreme bench from these states made during the period above mentioned. The opponents
of the Constitution represented, moreover, not only in these states, but in the country at
large, a majority of the people. Nevertheless, true to the purpose of those who founded our
Federal government, the popular majority was entirely ignored and the Supreme Court so constituted
as to make it represent the minority. Through these appointments the Federalists secured an
interpretation of the Constitution in harmony with their political theories and thereby established
the supremacy of the judiciary in our scheme of government. The subsequent success of the Supreme
Court in asserting and enforcing its right to annul acts of Congress completed the establishment
in this country of a form of government which Professor Burgess correctly describes as an "aristocracy
of the robe."[85]

The full significance of this annulling power is not generally understood. The Supreme Court
claims the right to exercise it only as the guardian of the Constitution. It must be observed,
however, that while professing to be controlled by the Constitution, the Supreme Court does,
as a matter of fact, control it, since the exclusive right to interpret necessarily involves
the power to change its substance. This virtually gives to the aristocratic branch of our government
the power to amend the Constitution, though this power is, as we have seen, practically denied
to the people.

We have become so accustomed to the exercise of this power by the courts that we are in the
habit of regarding it as a natural and necessary function of the judiciary. That this is an
erroneous view of the matter is shown by the fact that this power "is scarcely dreamed of anywhere
else."[86] In other countries the power is unknown whether the Constitution be unwritten as
in England or written as in France, Germany, and Switzerland. Nor does it make any difference
whether the government be national in character as in England and France, or federal as in
Germany, Switzerland, and Australia. In no other important country are the courts allowed to
veto the acts of the legislative body. The exercise of this power can be justified here only
on the ground that it is indispensable as a means of preserving and perpetuating the undemocratic
character of the Constitution.

"This power [the Supreme Court] has the last word in the numberless questions which come under
its jurisdiction. The sovereign people after a time conquers the other powers, but this Supreme
Court almost always remains beyond its reach. For more than twenty or even thirty years, twice
the grande mortalis aevi spatium, it may misuse its authority with impunity, may practically
invalidate a law voted by all the other powers, or a policy unanimously accepted by public
opinion. It may nullify a regular diplomatic treaty[87] ... by refusing to enforce it by judicial
sanction, or may lay hands on matters belonging to the sovereignty of the states and federalize
them without one's being able to make any effective opposition, for this Court itself determines
its own jurisdiction as against the state tribunals. It is one of Blackstone's maxims that
in every constitution a power exists which controls without being controlled, and whose decisions
are supreme. This power is represented in the United States by a small oligarchy of nine irremovable
judges. I do not know of any more striking political paradox than this supremacy of a non-elected
power in a democracy reputed to be of the extreme type. It is a power which is only renewed
from generation to generation in the midst of a peculiarly unstable and constantly changing
state of things--a power which in strictness could, by virtue of an authority now out of date,
perpetuate the prejudices of a past age, and actually defy the changed spirit of the nation
even in political matters."[88]

It is a fundamental principle of free government that all legislative power should be under
the direct control of the people. To make this control effective all laws must be enacted by
the people themselves, or they must at least have what practically amounts to the power of
appointing and removing their representatives. Democracy implies not merely the right of the
people to defeat such laws as they do not want, but the power to compel such legislation as
they need. The former power they possess in any country in which they control one coordinate
branch of the legislature, even though the government be a monarchy or aristocracy. This negative
power of defeating adverse legislation is merely the first step in the evolution of free government,
and is possessed by the people in all countries which have made much constitutional progress.
There is a vast difference, however, between a system under which the people constitute a mere
check upon the government and one which gives them an active control over legislation. It is
the difference between a limited monarchy or aristocracy on the one hand and a government by
the people themselves on the other.[89]

If this test be applied to the government of the United States we see that it lacks the essential
feature of a democracy, inasmuch as laws can not be enacted without the consent of a body over
which the people have practically no control. In one respect at least the American system is
even less democratic than was the English government of the eighteenth century. The House of
Commons was a coordinate branch of the legislature and as such had a recognized right to interpret
the Constitution. No political program, no theory of state functions, could receive legislative
sanction without its approval. The House of Commons could enforce its interpretation of the
Constitution negatively since it had an absolute veto on all legislation. On the other hand
its own views and policies could become law only in so far as they were acquiesced in by the
other branches of the law-making authority. Under this system the accepted interpretation of
the Constitution was a compromise, one to which each branch of the legislature assented. Each
of these coordinate branches of the government was equally the guardian and protector of the
Constitution, since it had the right to interpret, and the power to enforce its interpretation,
of the legislative authority of the other branches by an absolute veto on their interpretation
of their own powers.

This authority to act as final interpreter of the Constitution which under the English system
was distributed among King, Lords, and Commons, was under the American scheme of government
taken out of the hands of Congress and vested in the judiciary alone. There are certain matters
of minor importance, however, concerning which the interpretation placed upon the Constitution
by other branches of the government is final. But in interpreting the Constitution for the
purpose of legislating, the final authority is in the hands of the Federal Supreme Court. It
is the exclusive possession of this most important prerogative of a sovereign legislative body
which makes our Supreme Court the most august and powerful tribunal in the world. Through the
sole right to exercise this power our Federal judiciary has become in reality the controlling
branch of our government. For while it has an absolute veto on the acts of Congress, its own
exercise of the highest of all legislative authority--that of interpreting the Constitution
and the laws of the land--is unlimited and uncontrolled. It is not surprising, then, that the
Constitution as it exists to-day is largely the work of the Supreme Court. It has been molded
and developed by, and largely owes its spirit and character to the interpretation which that
body has placed upon it.

Our Supreme Court thus has what virtually amounts to the power to enact as well as the power
to annul. Congress can legislate only with the consent of the Federal judiciary; but the latter,
through its control over the interpretation of the Constitution may in effect legislate without
the consent of the other branches of the government, and even in opposition to them. Under
the guise of an independent judiciary we have in reality an independent legislature, or rather
an independent legislative and judicial body combined. This union of sovereign legislative
authority and ordinary judicial functions in the same independent body is a significant and
dangerous innovation in government. It has not only deprived the people of the power to make
the interpretation of the Constitution and the trend of legislation conform to the public sentiment
of the times; it has even taken from them all effectual power to prevent changes which they
do not want, but which the judiciary in the exercise of its exclusive right to act as the guardian
and interpreter of the Constitution may see fit to make. Under our system, then, the people
do not have even the negative power of absolute veto which they possess wherever they control
a coordinate branch of the legislature.

In so far as the exercise of legislative power is controlled by the Supreme Court our government
is essentially aristocratic in character. It represents the aristocratic principle, however,
in its least obtrusive form. But while avoiding the appearance, it provides the substance of
aristocratic control.

It is easy to see in the exaltation of the Federal judiciary a survival of the old mediaeval
doctrine that the king can do no wrong. In fact, much the same attitude of mind which made
monarchy possible may be seen in this country in our attitude toward the Supreme Court. As
long as the people reverenced the king his irresponsible power rested on a secure foundation.
To destroy the popular belief in his superior wisdom and virtue was to destroy the basis of
his authority. Hence all criticism of the king or his policy was regarded as an attack on the
system itself and treated accordingly as a serious political crime.

The old view was well expressed by James I of England in a speech made in the Star Chamber
on June 20, 1601, in which he said:

"That which concerns the mystery of the King's power is not lawful to be disputed; for that
is to wade into the weakness of princes, and to take away the mystical reverence that belongs
unto them that sit on the throne of God."[90]

We see this same fact illustrated also in the history of the church, for absolutism was not
confined in the Middle Ages to the state alone. As the King was the recognized guardian of
the established political order and its final interpreter, so the ecclesiastical hierarchy
claimed the right to guard the faith and expound the creed of the people. Criticism and dissent,
political and religious, were rigorously repressed. The people were required to accept the
political and religious system imposed on them from above. Implicit faith in the superior wisdom
of their temporal and spiritual rulers was made the greatest of all virtues. But with the growth
of an intelligent skepticism throughout the western world, the power of king and priest has
been largely overthrown.

Yet even in this country something akin to the old system of political control still survives
in the ascendency of our Federal judiciary. The exclusive right claimed by this branch of the
government to guard and interpret the Constitution is the same prerogative originally claimed
by the king. The judiciary, too, is the branch of our government farthest removed from the
influence of public opinion and consequently the one in which the monarchical principle most
largely survives.

The courts not only claim to be the final arbiters of all constitutional questions, but have
gone much farther than this and asserted their right to annul legislative acts not in conflict
with any constitutional provision. Story says: "Whether, indeed, independently of the Constitution
of the United States, the nature of republican and free government does not necessarily impose
some restraints upon the legislative power has been much discussed. It seems to be the general
opinion, fortified by a strong current of judicial opinion, that, since the American Revolution,
no state government can be presumed to possess the transcendental sovereignty to take away
vested rights of property."[91]

The judiciary has thus claimed not only the power to act as the final interpreter of the Constitution,
but also the right, independently of the Constitution, to interpret the political system under
which we live, and make all legislative acts conform to its interpretation of that system.
According to this doctrine the courts are the final judges of what constitutes republican government
and need not base their power to annul a legislative act on anything contained in the Constitution
itself. If we accept this view of the matter, legislation must conform not only to the Constitution
as interpreted by the judiciary, but to the political and ethical views of the latter as well.
The President and Congress derive their authority from the Constitution, but the judiciary
claims, as we have seen, a control over legislation not conferred by the Constitution itself.
Yet, while laying claim to powers that would make it supreme, the judicial branch of our Federal
government has, as a rule, been careful to avoid any open collision, or struggle for supremacy,
with the other branches of the government. It has retained the sympathy and approval of the
conservative classes by carefully guarding the rights of property and, by declining to interfere
with the political discretion of Congress or the President, it has largely escaped the hostile
criticism which any open and avowed attempt to thwart the plans of the dominant party would
surely evoke. But in thus limiting its own authority, the Supreme Court has attempted to make
a distinction between judicial and political powers which does not appear to have any very
substantial basis. The essential marks of a judicial power, Judge Cooley tells us, are "that
it can be exercised only in a litigated case; that its direct force is spent in determining
the rights of the parties to that case; and that unless and until a case has arisen for judicial
determination, it can not be invoked at all."[92]

"The power given to the Supreme Court," he says, "to construe the Constitution, to enforce
its provisions, to preserve its limitations, and guard its prohibitions, is not political power,
but is judicial power alone because it is power exercisable by that court only in the discharge
of the judicial function of hearing and deciding causes in their nature cognizable by courts
of law and equity."[93]

In the first place it is to be observed that judicial power as thus defined is practically
co-extensive with that of the legislature, since scarcely an exercise of legislative authority
could be mentioned which would not affect the rights of persons or of property and which could
not, therefore, be made the subject of a judicial controversy.

In the second place, it must be remembered that the Federal judiciary in assuming the exclusive
right to interpret the Constitution has taken into its keeping a power which, as we have seen,
was not judicial in character when the Constitution was adopted, and is not even now considered
judicial in any other important country. In declaring a legislative act null and void it is
exercising a power which every sovereign law-making body possesses, the power to defeat any
proposed legislation by withholding its assent. The mere fact that our Supreme Judges and our
legal writers generally have with practical unanimity called it a judicial power does not make
it such. That it is in reality a legislative and not a judicial power is amply confirmed by
the uniform and time-honored practice of all other nations, even including England, whose institutions
until a century and a quarter ago were our own.

There is, however, no difficulty in understanding why those who framed the Constitution and
controlled its interpretation exhausted the arsenal of logic in trying to prove that it was
a judicial power. This was merely a part of their plan to make the Supreme Court practically
a branch of the Federal legislature and thereby secure an effective check on public opinion.
As the power could not be expressly given without disclosing too clearly the purpose of the
Convention, it was necessary that it should be implied. And it could be held to be implied
only by showing that it was a natural, usual and, under the circumstances, proper power for
the judiciary to exercise. Unless it could be established, then, that it was essentially a
judicial function and not a political or legislative power, its assumption by the Supreme Court
could not be defended on any constitutional grounds. This explains the persistent and untiring
efforts to convince the American people that the power to set aside an act of Congress is purely
judicial--efforts which, though supported by the weight of American authority, are far from
convincing.

The Supreme Court has, it is true, time and again expressly disclaimed all right to exercise
legislative or political power; yet under the pretext that the authority to annul legislation
is purely judicial, it has made use of a power that necessarily involves the exercise of political
discretion. The statement, then, that it is the settled policy of this body not to interfere
with the political powers of the other departments can not be taken literally, since under
the accepted interpretation of the Constitution it has the power to, and as a matter of fact
does interfere, whenever it declares an act of Congress null and void.

It would be a mistake, then, to suppose that the Federal judiciary has suffered any loss of
influence through its voluntary relinquishment of the veto power in the case of political questions.
This self-imposed restriction on its authority merely affords it a convenient means of placing
beyond its jurisdiction measures which it may neither wish to approve nor condemn. And since
the court must decide what are and what are not political questions, it may enlarge or narrow
the scope and meaning of the word political to suit its purposes. As a matter of fact, then,
the power which it appears to have voluntarily surrendered, it still largely retains.

Upon the whole, the Supreme Court has been remarkably fortunate in escaping hostile criticism.
Very rarely have its decisions and policy been attacked by any organized party. In the platform
of the Republican party of 1860 the strong pro-slavery attitude of the court was, it is true,
severely denounced. But from that time until 1896 no party dared to raise its voice in criticism
of the Federal judiciary. Both the Democratic and the Populist platforms of the latter date,
however, condemned the Income Tax decision and government by injunction. The Democratic platform
also hinted at the possible reorganization of the Supreme Court--the means employed by the
Republican party to secure a reversal of the Legal Tender decision of 1869.

This comparative freedom from criticism which the Supreme Court has enjoyed until recent years
does not indicate that its decisions have always been such as to command the respect and approval
of all classes. It has from the beginning had the full confidence of the wealthy and conservative,
who have seen in it the means of protecting vested interests against the assaults of democracy.
That the Supreme Court has largely justified their expectations is shown by the character of
its decisions.

During the first one hundred years of its history two hundred and one cases were decided in
which an act of Congress, a provision of a state constitution or a state statute, was held
to be repugnant to the Constitution or the laws of the United States, in whole or in part.
Twenty of these involved the constitutionality of an act of Congress. One hundred and eighty-one
related to the Constitution or the statute of a state. In fifty-seven instances the law in
question was annulled by the Supreme Court on the ground that it impaired the obligation of
contracts. In many other cases the judicial veto was interposed to prevent what the court considered
an unconstitutional exercise of the power to regulate or tax the business or property of corporations.[94]

These decisions have been almost uniformly advantageous to the capital-owning class in preserving
property rights and corporate privileges which the unhindered progress of democracy would have
abridged or abolished. But we need not confine our attention to these comparatively few instances
in which laws have actually been declared null and void. There is a much more numerous and
more important class of cases in which the Supreme Court, while not claiming to exercise this
power, has virtually annulled laws by giving them an interpretation which has defeated the
purpose for which they were enacted. The decisions affecting the powers of the Inter-State
Commerce Commission may be cited as an illustration. This body, created by Congress for the
purpose of regulating the railway traffic of the country, has, as Mr. Justice Harlan observes,[95]
"been shorn by judicial interpretation, of authority to do anything of an effective character."
Both the general and the state governments in their efforts to grapple with this problem have
encountered the restraining arm of the Federal judiciary which has enlarged its jurisdiction
until nearly every important case involving corporate interests may be brought before the Federal
court.

It is not, however, in the laws which have been annulled or modified by interpretation that
we find the chief protection afforded to capital, but rather in the laws which have not been
enacted. The mere existence of this power and the certainty that it would be used in defence
of the existing social order has well-nigh prevented all attacks on vested rights by making
their failure a foregone conclusion.

It is but natural that the wealthy and influential classes who have been the chief beneficiaries
of this system should have used every means at their command to exalt the Supreme Court and
thereby secure general acquiescence in its assumption and exercise of legislative authority.
To the influence of these classes in our political, business, and social life must be attributed
in large measure that widespread and profound respect for the judicial branch of our government
which has thus far almost completely shielded it from public criticism.

There are many indications, however, that popular faith in the infallibility of the Supreme
Court has been much shaken in recent years. This is not surprising when we consider the wavering
policy of that body in some of the important cases that have come before it. Take, for example,
the Legal Tender decisions. The court at first declared the legal tender acts unconstitutional
by a majority of five to three. Then one of the justices who voted with the majority having
resigned and Congress having created an additional judgeship, Justices Strong and Bradley were
appointed to fill these vacancies. The former, as a member of the Supreme Bench of the State
of Pennsylvania, had rendered a decision upholding the constitutionality of these acts, and
the latter was said to hold the same opinion. At any rate the first decision was reversed by
a majority of five to four. The point at issue in these two decisions was whether Congress
had authority to enact measures of this kind in time of war. The matter coming up again, the
Supreme Court decided, and this time by a majority of eight to one, that Congress had this
power, not only during war, but in times of peace as well.[96]

Reference should also be made in this connection to the Income Tax decisions of 1895. The first
of these was a tie, four to four, Justice Jackson being absent. Six weeks later the second
decision was read declaring the Income Tax unconstitutional by a vote of five to four, Justice
Shiras, who had voted on the first hearing to uphold the Income Tax, now voting against it.
This change in the attitude of a single member of the court converted what would have been
a majority for, into a majority against the measure, overruled a line of decisions in which
the tax had been sustained and thereby effectually deprived Congress of the power to impose
a Federal Income Tax until such time as the court may change its mind. Even more significant
are the recent Insular cases in which the division of opinion and diversity of grounds for
the conclusions reached are, to say the least, surprising.

One may well ask, after viewing these decisions, if constitutional interpretation as practiced
by the Supreme Court is really a science in the pursuit of which the individual temperament,
personal views and political sympathies of the Justices do not influence the result. Have we
gained enough under this system in the continuity and consistency of our legislative policy
and its freedom from class or political bias to compensate us for the loss of popular control?
That these questions are likely to receive serious consideration in the near future we can
scarcely doubt, when we reflect that the Supreme Court has, by the character of its own decisions,
effectually exploded the doctrine of judicial infallibility, which constitutes the only basis
upon which its monopoly of constitutional interpretation can be defended.

The evident lack of sympathy with proposed reforms which has, upon the whole, characterized
the proceedings of the Federal courts is rather strikingly illustrated in the address of Judge
Taft on "Recent Criticisms of the Federal Judiciary." He makes use of the following language:
"While socialism, as such, has not obtained much of a foothold in this country, ... schemes
which are necessarily socialistic in their nature are accepted planks in the platform of a
large political party. The underlying principle of such schemes is that it is the duty of the
government to equalize the inequalities which the rights of free contract and private property
have brought about, and by enormous outlay derived as far as possible from the rich to afford
occupation and sustenance to the poor. However disguised such plans of social and governmental
reform are, they find their support in the willingness of their advocates to transfer without
any compensation from one who has acquired a large part of his acquisition to those who have
been less prudent, energetic, and fortunate. This, of course, involves confiscation and the
destruction of the principle of private property."[97] This emphatic condemnation of proposed
reforms which had the full sympathy and approval of many thoughtful and conscientious people
furnishes the show of justification at least for the very criticisms which it was intended
to silence.

With the progress of democracy it must become more and more evident that a system which places
this far-reaching power in the hands of a body not amenable to popular control, is a constant
menace to liberty. It may not only be made to serve the purpose of defeating reform, but may
even accomplish the overthrow of popular rights which the Constitution expressly guarantees.
In proof of this statement we need but refer to the recent history of our Federal judiciary.
The Sixth Amendment to the Constitution guarantees the right of trial by jury in all criminal
prosecutions; but it is a matter of common knowledge that this time-honored safeguard against
the tyranny and oppression of ruling classes has been overthrown by the Federal courts. With
the ascendency of corporate wealth and influence, government by injunction has become an important
feature of our system. The use made of the injunction in recent years in the conflicts between
labor and capital has placed a large and important class of crimes beyond the pale of this
constitutional provision. Moreover, this particular class of crimes is the one where denial
of the right of trial by jury is most likely to result in oppression. Under this mode of procedure
the court has virtually assumed the power to enact criminal legislation, and may punish as
crimes acts which neither law nor public opinion condemns. It ensures conviction in many cases
where the constitutional right of trial by jury would mean acquittal. It places a powerful
weapon in the hands of organized wealth which it is not slow to use.[98]

This so-called government by injunction is merely an outgrowth of the arbitrary power of judges
to inflict punishment in cases of contempt. In this respect, as well as in the power to veto
legislation, the authority of our courts may be regarded as a survival from monarchy. The right
of judges to punish in a summary manner those whom they may hold to be in contempt of their
authority has been defended by legal writers generally on the ground that it is the only way
in which the necessary respect for judicial authority can be maintained. It is difficult, however,
to see why this argument would not apply with equal force to the executive and legislative
branches of the government; for there must be some means of enforcing obedience to every lawful
authority, legislative, executive, or judicial. The progress toward responsible government
has long since deprived the executive of the power to inflict arbitrary punishment, and the
legislature, though still retaining in a limited degree the power to imprison for contempt
of its authority, seldom uses and almost never abuses it. The question is not whether contempt
of authority should be punished, but whether the officer whose authority has been disregarded
should also act as judge and jury, should ascertain the guilt and fix the punishment of those
whom he as complaining witness has accused of contempt of his authority. This procedure is
utterly at variance with the idea of political responsibility, and survives only because the
judicial branch of our government has thus far effectually resisted the inroads of democracy.
That the exercise of this arbitrary and irresponsible power is necessary in a democratic community,
to ensure proper respect for the courts, seems highly improbable. In fact, no course could
be suggested which would be more likely in the end to bring them into disrepute.[99]

It is interesting to observe that while the Supreme Court of the United States has not hesitated
to veto an act of Congress, "no treaty, or legislation based on, or enacted to carry out, any
treaty stipulations has ever been declared void or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction; notwithstanding the fact that in many cases the matters affected, both as to
the treaty and the legislation, are apparently beyond the domain of Congressional legislation,
and in some instances of Federal jurisdiction."[100]

Why has the Federal Supreme Court freely exercised the power to annul acts of Congress and
at the same time refrained from exercising a like control over treaties? The Constitution makes
no distinction between laws and treaties in this respect. Moreover, the Supreme Court has claimed,
and has been conceded, the right to act as the guardian of the Constitution. The authority
thus assumed by the Federal judiciary can be justified, if at all, only on the theory that
the Constitution limits all governmental powers, and that it is the duty of the Supreme Court
to enforce the limitations thus imposed by declaring null and void any unconstitutional exercise
of governmental authority.

Not only in the Constitution itself was no distinction made between laws and treaties in relation
to the power of the judiciary, but the same is true of the Judiciary Act of September 24, 1789,
which provided that where the highest court in a state in which a decision in the suit could
be had decides against the validity of "a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under,
the United States," such judgment or decree "may be re-examined, and reversed or affirmed in
the Supreme Court [of the United States] on a writ of error." The right of the Federal Supreme
Court to declare both laws and treaties null and void was thus clearly and unequivocally recognized
in this act. The object here, however, was not to establish judicial control over treaties,
but to deprive the state courts of all authority over them.

The failure of the Supreme Court to exercise the right to annul treaties is to be explained
in part by the fact that the judicial veto was intended primarily as a check on democracy.
From the point of view of the conservatives who framed the Constitution it was a device for
protecting the classes which they represented against democratic "excesses" in both the state
and Federal government. It was expected that this tendency would be manifested mainly in the
legislation of the various states and possibly in some slight degree in Congressional legislation,
since the President and Senate would occasionally find it expedient to yield too largely to
the demands of the directly elected House. But in the case of treaties made by the President
and Senate, both safely removed, as they thought, beyond the reach of popular influence, there
was no obvious need of a conservative check. In developing the policy of the Federal courts
in pursuance of the purpose of those who framed the Constitution, it was perfectly natural
that the judicial veto should not have been used to limit the treaty-making power.

But even if the Federal courts had felt inclined to extend their authority in this direction,
the Constitution did not as in the case of Congressional legislation confer upon them the means
of self-protection. In declaring null and void an act of Congress which did not have the support
of at least two-thirds of the Senate, the Supreme Court is exercising a power which, if not
expressly conferred upon it by the Constitution, it can at any rate exercise with impunity,
since the majority in the Senate which it thus overrides is not large enough to convict in
case of impeachment. All treaties must have the approval of two-thirds of the Senate; and since
the majority in this body required to ratify a treaty is the same as that required to convict
in impeachment proceedings, it is readily seen that the Senate has the constitutional power
to prevent judicial annulment of treaties. Two-thirds of the Senate could not overcome judicial
opposition, however, unless supported by at least a majority in the House of Representatives.
But inasmuch as the Supreme Court is pre-eminently the representative of conservatism and vested
interests, it is likely to disapprove of the policy of the Senate only when that body yields
to the demands of the people. In all such cases the House would naturally support the Senate
as against the Supreme Court. It is not surprising, then, that the Federal courts have not
attempted to limit the treaty-making power.

Before leaving the subject of the Federal courts one feature of the judicial negative deserves
further notice. The fact that it is not exercised until a case involving the law in question
is brought before the court in the ordinary course of litigation is often referred to by constitutional
writers as one of its chief merits. And yet until a competent court has actually declared a
legislative act null and void, it is for all practical purposes the law of the land and must
be recognized as such. It may vitally affect industry and commerce and require an elaborate
readjustment of business relations. It may even be years after such an act is passed before
a decision is obtained from the court of last resort. And if the decision annuls the law, it
does so not from the time that the judgment of the court is rendered, but from the time the
act in question was originally passed. This retroactive character of the judicial veto is strongly
suggestive of the ex post facto legislation which the Constitution expressly forbids. By thus
invalidating the law from the beginning it may leave a vast body of business contracts without
legal protection or support. As a consequence, it is impossible for any one, be he ever so
well informed, to know just what legislative acts are valid and what are not. The amount of
uncertainty which this introduces into business relations is more easily imagined than described.

America can claim the rather questionable distinction of being the only important country in
which we find this uncertainty as to the law, since it is the only one in which the courts
have a negative on the acts of the legislature. That we have ourselves realized the disadvantages
of the system is shown by the changes made in the constitutions of several states with a view
of diminishing the frequency of the judicial veto. These provisions make it the duty of the
judges of the supreme court of the state to give their opinion upon questions of law when required
by the governor or other branch of the law-making authority.[102]

In so far as constitutional provisions of this sort have been intended to prevent the evils
resulting from a deferred exercise of the judicial veto, they have largely failed to accomplish
their purpose. This has been due to the attitude of the courts, which have held that an opinion
thus given in compliance with a constitutional requirement is not binding upon them when the
question is raised again in the ordinary way in the trial of a case.

CHAPTER VI

THE CHECKS AND BALANCES OF THE CONSTITUTION

Two features of this system, the difficulty of amendment and the extraordinary powers of the
judiciary have been discussed at some length. Both, as we have seen, were designed to limit
the power of the popular majority. This purpose is no less evident when we view the Constitution
as a whole.

The members of the Federal Convention had little sympathy with the democratic trend of the
Revolutionary movement. It was rapidly carrying the country, they thought, to anarchy and ruin.
To guard against this impending evil was the purpose of the Constitution which they framed.
It was their aim to eliminate what they conceived to be the new and false and bring the government
back to old and established principles which the Revolutionary movement had for the time being
discredited. They believed in the theory of checks and balances in so far as the system implied
the limitation of the right of popular control, and made the Constitution to this extent as
complete an embodiment of the theory as the circumstances of the time permitted.

In any evolutionary classification of governments the American system occupies an intermediate
position between the old type of absolute monarchy on the one hand and thoroughgoing democracy
on the other. Following in a general way the course of political development in England, we
may say that there was an early stage in the growth of the state when the power of the king
was predominant. Neither the nobility nor the common people exercised any effective control
over him. He was what we may call an absolute monarch. His power was unlimited in the sense
that there were no recognized checks imposed upon it. He was irresponsible, since no one could
call him to account for what he did.

The upper classes, however, were anxious to share with the king the control of the state. Their
efforts were directed first toward limiting his power by making their own consent necessary
before he could enact any law, carry out any policy, or do any thing of a positive nature.
But even after they had been admitted to this share in the government the negative power of
the king remained unlimited. The veto power acquired by the upper classes might prevent him
from enacting a particular law, or enforcing a given policy, but no one had a veto on his inaction.
He might be unable to do what the classes having a voice in the management of the government
forbade, but he could decline to do what they wished.

The appearance of a House of Commons did not change essentially the character of the scheme,
nor would it have done so, had this body been truly representative of the people as a whole.
It placed an additional check on both King and Lords by giving to the representative body the
power to negative their positive acts. Both the King and the Lords retained, however, their
negative authority unimpaired and could use it for the purpose of defeating any measure which
the Commons desired. This is what we may call the check and balance stage of political development.
Here all positive authority is limited, since its exercise may be prevented by the negative
power lodged for this purpose in the other branches of the government. This negative power
itself, however, is absolute and unlimited. The government is in no true sense responsible
to the people, or any part of them, since they have no positive control over it.

This complex system of restrictions which is the outgrowth and expression of a class struggle
for the control of the government must necessarily disappear when the supremacy of the people
is finally established. This brings us to the next and for our present purpose, at least, the
last stage of political evolution.

Here the authority of the people is undisputed. Their will is law. The entire system of checks
has been swept away. No irresponsible and insignificant minority is longer clothed with power
to prevent reform. The authority of the government is limited only by its direct and complete
responsibility to the people.

Corresponding to these three stages of political evolution we have three general types of government:

1. Unlimited and irresponsible.

2. Positively limited, negatively unlimited and irresponsible.

3. Unlimited and responsible.

As shown in a previous chapter, the Revolutionary movement largely destroyed the system of
checks. It abolished the veto power, centralized authority and made the government in a measure
responsible to the electorate. The Constitution, however, restored the old order in a modified
form. In this sense it was reactionary and retrogressive. It went back to the old doctrine
of the separation of powers, ostensibly to limit the authority of the government and thereby
make it responsible to the people as Hamilton argued in The Federalist. That this could not
have been the real object is evident to any one who has carefully studied the situation. The
unthinking reader may accept Hamilton's contention that the system of checks and balances was
incorporated in the Constitution to make the government the servant and agent of the people;
but the careful student of history can not be so easily misled. He knows that the whole system
was built up originally as a means of limiting monarchical and aristocratic power; that it
was not designed to make government in any true sense responsible, but to abridge its powers
because it was irresponsible. The very existence of the system implies the equal recognition
in the Constitution of antagonistic elements. As it could not possibly exist where monarchy
or aristocracy was the only recognized source of authority in the state, so it is likewise
impossible where all power is in the people. It is to be observed, then, that what originally
commended the system to the people was the fact that it limited the positive power of the king
and aristocracy, while the framers of the Constitution adopted it with a view to limiting the
power of the people themselves.

There is no essential difference between the viewpoint of the framers of the American Constitution
and that of their English contemporaries. Lecky says: "It is curious to observe how closely
the aims and standard of the men who framed the memorable Constitution of 1787 and 1788 corresponded
with those of the English statesmen of the eighteenth century. It is true that the framework
adopted was very different.... The United States did not contain the materials for founding
a constitutional monarchy or a powerful aristocracy.... It was necessary to adopt other means,
but the ends that were aimed at were much the same. To divide and restrict power; to secure
property; to check the appetite for organic change; to guard individual liberty against the
tyranny of the multitude...."[103]

Our Constitution was modeled in a general way after the English government of the eighteenth
century. But while the English system of constitutional checks was a natural growth, the American
system was a purely artificial contrivance. James Monroe called attention to this fact in the
Virginia convention. He observed that the division of power in all other governments ancient
and modern owed its existence to a mixture of monarchy, aristocracy, and democracy.[104] This
artificial division of power provided for in the Constitution of the United States was intended
as a substitute for the natural checks upon the people which the existence of king and nobility
then supplied in England.

This idea of government carried out to its logical conclusion would require that every class
and every interest should have a veto on the political action of all the others. No such extended
application of the theory has ever been made in the actual working of government, nor is it
practicable, since no class can acquire, or having acquired, retain a veto on the action of
the government unless it is large and powerful enough to enforce its demands. The attempt on
the part of a small class to acquire a constitutional right of this character must of necessity
fail. This is why the system which theoretically tends toward a high degree of complexity has
not in practice resulted in any very complex constitutional arrangements.

Poland is the best example of the practical working of a system of checks carried to an absurd
extreme. The political disintegration and final partition of that once powerful country by
its neighbors was due in no small degree to its form of government, which invited anarchy through
the great power which it conferred upon an insignificant minority.

The fact that this system can not be carried far enough in practice to confer upon every distinct
interest or class the veto power as a means of self defence, has given rise to the doctrine
of laissez faire. No class in control of the government, or even in possession of the power
to negative its acts, has any motive for advocating the let-alone theory. Its veto power affords
it adequate protection against any harmful exercise of political authority. But such is not
the case with those smaller or less fortunate classes or interests which lack this means of
self-protection. Since they do not have even a negative control over the government, they naturally
desire to limit the scope of its authority. Viewed in this light we may regard the laissez
faire doctrine as merely supplementary to the political theory of checks and balances.

It is easy to see that if the idea of checks were carried out in practice to its extreme limits,
it would lead inevitably to the destruction of all positive authority by vesting a veto in
each class and ultimately in each individual. In fact, John C. Calhoun, the ablest and most
consistent expounder of this doctrine, defines a perfect popular government as "one which would
embrace the consent of every citizen or member of the community."[105] When this last stage
is reached we would have no government in any proper sense; for each individual would be clothed
with constitutional power to arrest its action. Indeed the theory of checks and balances, if
taken without any qualification and followed out consistently, leads naturally to the acceptance
of anarchy as the only scientific system.

The absence of king and aristocracy did not deter the members of the Convention from seeking
to follow the English model. In doing this, however, it was necessary to find substitutes for
the materials which were lacking. The constitutional devices adopted to accomplish this purpose
form the system of checks and are the most original and interesting feature of our government.

The English model was followed, however, only so far as it served their purpose. In the case
of the judiciary, for instance, they declined to follow it; but the reason for this as explained
in the preceding chapter was their desire to establish a more effective check on the people.
They showed no special preference for the English form where some other method would better
accomplish the desired purpose. Hence in many instances they deliberately rejected English
precedent, but always with the view of providing something that would impose a more effective
check on the public will. An apparent exception to this may be found in the limited term of
President and United States senators. But these were the very instances in which lack of king
and nobility made departure from the English model a matter of necessity. Moreover, any avowed
attempt to provide an effective substitute for the hereditary branches of the English model
would have been distasteful to the people generally and for that reason would have ensured
the rejection of the Constitution. Theoretically, the nearest approach to the English system
possible would have been life tenure, and there were not wanting those who, like Hamilton,
contended for it; but the certainty of popular disapproval was an unanswerable argument against it.

It was thought that substantially the same result could be obtained by indirect election for
moderately long periods. Hence we notice a marked departure from the practice of the state
constitutions in term of office and mode of election. In every state the governor was elected
either by the legislature or directly by the voters, usually for one year and nowhere for as
long a period as four years.[106] With only two exceptions[107] the members of the upper legislative
chamber were directly elected by the qualified voters, generally for one year and in no state
for as long a term as six years.[108]

The desire of the Convention to secure to the President and United States Senators more freedom
from popular control than was enjoyed by the corresponding state officials is most clearly
seen in the mode of election prescribed.[109] They adopted what Madison called "the policy
of refining popular appointments by successive filtrations." They provided that the President
should be chosen by an electoral college, the members of which were not required to be elected
by the people. This, it was thought, would guard against the choice of a mere popular favorite
and ensure the election of a President acceptable to the conservative and well-to-do classes.
It was taken for granted that the indirect method would enable the minority to control the
choice. For a like reason they provided that United States senators should be chosen by the
legislatures instead of by the people of the several states.

The system as originally adopted did not contemplate, and made no provision for the selection
of candidates in advance of a popular election. But this is not surprising when we reflect
that it was the very thing they were trying to prevent. They intended that the electoral college
should be such in fact as well as in name, that it should have and exercise the power of independent
choice instead of merely registering a popular selection already made as if has come in practice
to do. They recognized very clearly that there was a distinct line of cleavage separating the
rich from the poor. They believed with Hamilton that in this respect "all communities divide
themselves into the few and the many,"[110] that the latter will tend to combine for the purpose
of obtaining control of the government; and having secured it, will pass laws for their own
advantage. This, they believed, was the chief danger of democracy--a danger so real and imminent
that it behooved the few to organize and bring about, if possible, such changes in the government
as would "protect the minority of the opulent against the majority."[111] This was the purpose
of the system of checks by which they sought to give the former a veto on the acts of the latter.
In thus depriving the masses of the power to advance their interests through combination, they
thought that the organization of a political party representing the many as opposed to the
few would be discouraged. On the other hand, the few while co-operating for a common purpose,
could best accomplish it without any visible party organization or any appearance of concerted
action. Hence the Constitution as originally adopted made no provision for the party candidate.

In view of the fact that the Constitution was intended to limit the power of the majority,
it is perfectly natural that it should have attempted to assign to the popular branch of the
government a position of minor importance. This was, of course, in direct opposition to what
had been the uniform tendency during the Revolutionary period in the various states. In the
latter the lower house had been raised to coordinate rank with the upper and in Massachusetts,
Gerry tells us, the people were for abolishing the senate and giving all the powers of government
to the other branch of the legislature.[112]

In the Federal Constitution we see a strong reaction against this policy of enlarging the authority
of the lower, and what was assumed to be the more popular branch of the legislative body. The
House of Representatives was, it is true, given equal power with the Senate in the matter of
ordinary legislation. But here its equality ends. The treaty-making and the appointing power
were given to the President and Senate, where, it was thought, they would be safe from popular
interference. The effect of this was to make the influence of these two branches of the government
greatly preponderate over that of the directly elected House. Through the treaty-making power
the President and Senate could in a most important sense legislate without the consent of the
popular branch of Congress. They could enter into agreements with foreign countries which would
have all the force and effect of laws regularly enacted and which might influence profoundly
our whole social, political, and industrial life. The only semblance of a popular check on
the exercise of this power was to be found in those cases where appropriations were required
to carry treaties into effect. Here the House of Representatives, in theory at least, could
defeat the treaty by refusing its assent to the necessary appropriation. In practice, however,
the House has surrendered this power. A treaty is at no stage "submitted to or referred to
the House of Representatives, which has no more right to be informed about it than ordinary
citizens. The President and the Senate may, for example, cede or annex territories, and yet
nothing of the fact will appear in the discussions of the House of Representatives unless the
cession involves expenditure or receipt of money. Besides, I must add that even if the treaty
contains clauses imposing a charge on the public revenue, it is the rule, since Washington's
time, that the House of Representatives should not discuss the terms of the treaty adopted
by the Senate, but accept it in silence as an accomplished fact, and simply vote the necessary
funds."[113]

The appointing power was in many respects even more important. It meant the right to select
those who were to interpret and enforce the laws, and this really involved the power to mold
the spirit and character of the government. That this was fully appreciated by those who framed
the Constitution we saw in the preceding chapter.

The statement contained in the Constitution that all legislative authority is vested in Congress
is far from accurate, not only for the reason above indicated that a portion of it under the
guise of treaty-making power is conferred on the President and Senate, and the further reason
that the Supreme Court exercises legislative authority of great importance, but for the additional
reason that the President, aside from his control over treaties, possesses legislative power
co-extensive and co-equal with that of either house. He has been expressly given by the Constitution
only a qualified veto, but it is so difficult for Congress to override it by the necessary
two-thirds majority that it is in most cases as effective as an absolute negative.[114] Attention
has been called to the fact that a two-thirds majority is difficult to secure even under the
most favorable circumstances; but here the situation is such as to place practically insurmountable
obstacles in the way of its attainment. As an illustration let us suppose that each state is
solidly for or against the measure which the President has vetoed and that both Senators and
Representatives accurately reflect the sentiment of their respective states. Then taking the
population of the forty-five states in 1900 as the basis of our calculation, the smallest popular
majority which would ensure the required two-thirds vote in both houses would be obtained by
taking enough of the smaller states to make the necessary majority in the House. But this would
mean a popular majority of over 65 per cent. and an eight-ninths majority in the Senate. To
obtain the necessary vote in both houses by taking the larger states would require a popular
majority of over 93 per cent. and a nine-tenths majority in the House. This gives us some,
but by no means an adequate, idea of the President's control over legislation. He may use in
support of his veto all the other powers which the Constitution has placed in his hands; and
when we consider the immense influence which he can bring to bear upon Congress, especially
through his control over appointments, we can readily see the practical impossibility of enacting
any measure which he opposes with all the powers at his command. Moreover, the President and
Senate would, it was expected, belong to the same class, represent the same interests, and
be equally faithful in guarding the rights of the well-to-do. They were to be, therefore, not
so much a check on each other, as a double check on the democratic House; and as against the
latter, it was the intention that the qualified negative of the President should, in all important
matters concerning which the radical and conservative classes disagreed, be fully equivalent
to an absolute veto. This follows from the fact that the Senate would in such cases sympathize
with the action of the President and refuse to co-operate with the House in overriding it.

It was believed by the framers of the Constitution that the veto power of the President would
be seldom used. This was true until after the Civil War. Washington used the power only twice;
John Adams, Jefferson, J.Q. Adams, Van Buren, Taylor, and Fillmore did not make use of it at
all. During the first seventy-six years of our history under the Constitution the power was
exercised only fifty-two times. Andrew Johnson was the first President to use it freely, vetoing
as many acts as were vetoed by the first eight Presidents. The largest use of the veto power
was by President Cleveland who, during his first term, exercised it three hundred and one times.[115]

In conferring the veto power on the President the members of the Convention were actuated by
the desire to strengthen a conservative branch of the government rather than by any desire
to copy the English Constitution, or the constitutions of the American states. As a matter
of fact, the veto power of the Crown was then obsolete, Hamilton himself remarking in the Convention
that it had not been used since the Revolution of 1688,[116] while in all but two states the
last vestige of it had been destroyed.[117]

The position of the President was still further strengthened by discarding the executive council
which then existed in every state as a check upon the governor and which was a prominent feature
of the English government of that time. In England this council, forming the Ministry or Cabinet,
had not, it is true, definitely assumed the form which characterizes it now; but it had deprived
the King of all power to act except through ministers who were responsible and could be impeached
by Parliament. This, of course, had greatly weakened the executive, a fact which fully explains
why the framers of the Constitution rejected it and went back to the earlier English king whose
veto power was unimpaired for their model.

As their plan contemplated a strong independent executive who would not hesitate to use the
far-reaching powers placed in his hands to defeat measures which he disapproved of, it was
necessary to guarantee him against popular removal. In this respect again we see both English
and American constitutional practice disregarded, since neither afforded the desired security
of tenure. In the various states the governor was liable to be impeached by the lower branch
of the legislature and expelled from office when convicted by the senate, which was usually
the court before which impeachment cases were tried. A mere majority in each house was usually
sufficient to convict,[118] and as both houses were directly elected,[119] it virtually gave
the majority of the voters the power to remove. This was simply an adaptation of the English
practice which allowed a majority of the Commons to impeach and a majority of the Lords to
convict. That this had a strong tendency to make the legislative body supreme is evident, since
the power, if freely used, would overcome all opposition on the part of either the executive
or the judiciary. Any combination of interests that could command a majority in both houses
of Parliament could thus enforce its policy. This practically destroyed the executive check
in the English Constitution and for that very reason the founders of our government rejected
it. They clearly saw that to make the President's veto effective, he would have to be protected
in its exercise. To have adopted the English practice and allowed a mere majority of the Senate
to convict in impeachment cases would have given Congress power to destroy the President's
veto by impeaching and removing from office any executive who dared to use it. This was guarded
against by making, a two-thirds majority in the Senate necessary to convict any official impeached
by the House. And since this two-thirds majority is one which in practice can not be obtained,
the power to impeach may be regarded, like the power to amend, as practically non-existent.
Only two convictions have been obtained since the Constitution was adopted. John Pickering,
a Federal district judge, was convicted March 12, 1803, and removed from office, and at the
outbreak of the Civil War a Federal district judge of Tennessee, West H. Humphreys, who joined
the Confederacy without resigning, was convicted. William Blount was acquitted in 1798 on the
ground that, as a United States senator, he was not a "civil officer" within the meaning of
the impeachment provision of the Constitution, and so not liable to impeachment. Samuel Chase,
Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court, President Andrew Johnson, and Secretary
of War, William W. Belknap, would have been convicted but for the extraordinary majority required
in the Senate.

The practical impossibility of removing a public official by means of impeachment proceedings
has made the executive and the judicial veto thoroughly effective, since it has deprived Congress
of all power to punish by removing from office those officials who thwart its purpose. It has
made the President and the Supreme Court much stronger than the House of Representatives--a
result which the framers of the Constitution no doubt desired.

In addition to the President's qualified veto on laws about to be passed, which, as we have
seen, amounts in practice to an unlimited negative, he has what may be called an absolute veto
on their execution. This is the necessary consequence of his complete independence, taken in
connection with his power of appointment and removal. Controlling the administrative arm of
the government, he can execute the laws of Congress or not as he may see fit. He may even fail
to enforce an act which he himself signed, inasmuch as his approval in a legislative capacity
does not bar his subsequent disapproval as an executive. Of course, it does not follow that
this power is openly and avowedly exercised. Usually it is not. An easier and more effective
method is the one which obscures the real intention of the executive by a sham attempt at enforcement.

It may be contended that the Constitution makes it his duty to enforce all laws without regard
to his own views of their wisdom or expediency. This contention, however, does not appear to
be borne out by the purpose of the Constitution itself. It was not the intention of the framers
of that instrument to make the President a mere administrative agent of Congress, but rather
to set him over against that body and make him in a large measure the judge of his own authority.
If it be claimed that it is his duty to enforce all laws that have been regularly enacted,
it must at the same time be conceded that the Constitution permits their non-enforcement, since
it has given neither to Congress nor to the people any effective power to remove him for neglect
of duty. The Massachusetts constitution of 1780, from which the fathers copied the qualified
veto power, required the governor to take an oath in which he obligated himself to perform
the duties of his office "agreeably to the rules and regulations of the constitution and the
laws of the commonwealth." There was no precedent in any then existing state constitution for
expressly binding the executive in his oath of office to defend the Constitution without mentioning
his duty to enforce the laws. It is a reasonable inference that the framers of the Constitution
intended to impress the President with the belief that his obligation to defend the Constitution
was more binding upon him than his duty to enforce the laws enacted by Congress.

In the foregoing discussion it has been shown that political authority was unequally divided
between the various branches of the government; to the extent that this was the case the framers
of the Constitution did not adhere consistently to the theory of checks. But in this, as in
other instances where they departed from precedents which they professed to be following, they
were actuated by a desire to minimize the direct influence of the people. If the Constitution
had been framed in complete accord with the doctrine of checks and balances, the lower house
of Congress as the direct representative of the people would have been given a veto on the
entire policy of the government. But this, as we have seen, was not done. The more important
powers were placed under the exclusive control of the other branches of the government over
which it was believed public opinion would have but little influence. This deprived the people
of the unlimited negative to which they were entitled even according to the theory of checks.
Richard Henry Lee did not greatly exaggerate then when he said: "The only check to be found
in favor of the democratic principle, in this system, is the House of Representatives, which,
I believe, may justly be called a mere shred or rag of representation."[121] Nor was Mason
entirely mistaken when he referred to the House of Representatives as "the shadow only" and
not "the substance of representation."[122]

It may be thought, even though the Constitution does not give the House of Representatives
a direct negative on all the important acts of the government, that it does so indirectly through
its control over the purse. An examination of the system with reference to this question, however,
reveals the fact that the control of the House over taxation and expenditure is narrowly limited.
A revenue law is subject to no constitutional limitation, and when once enacted remains in
force until repealed by subsequent legislation. Assuming that a revenue system has been established
which is sufficient for the needs of the government, the House can exercise no further control
over income. It can not repeal it, or modify it in any way without the consent of the President
and Senate.

Turning now to the matter of expenditure, we find that the Constitution allows permanent provision
to be made for the needs of the government, with the single exception of the army, for the
support of which no funds can be appropriated for a longer period than two years. The policy
of permanent appropriations has not yet been applied to the full extent permitted by the Constitution,
but it has been carried much further than a consistent adherence to the doctrine of popular
control over the budget would warrant. The practice could easily be extended until every want
of the government except the expenses of the army, even including the maintenance of the navy,
had been provided for by permanent appropriations. And it may be added that with the increasing
desire for stability which comes with the development of vast business interests, the tendency
is strongly in that direction.

Let us suppose that some political party, for the time being in control of the law-making power
of the government, should extend the practice of making permanent appropriations to the extreme
limit allowed by the Constitution. This would relieve the administration of all financial dependence
upon public sentiment except in the management of the army. And if, as the framers of the Constitution
contemplated, the President and the Senate should represent the minority, the administration
might for years pursue a policy to which public opinion had come to be strongly opposed. For
with the system once adopted its repeal could not be effected without the concurrence of all
branches of the law-making authority. The President and Congress could, in anticipation of
an adverse majority in the House, guard against the withdrawal of financial support from their
policy by simply making permanent provision for their needs. Our present system would permit
this to be done even after the party in power had been overwhelmingly defeated at the polls,
since the second session of the old congress does not begin until after the members of the
new House of Representatives have been elected.[123] This would tie the hands of any adverse
popular majority in a succeeding congress and effectually deprive it of even a veto on the
income and expenditure of the government, until such time as it should also gain control of
the Presidency and the Senate. But this last could never have happened if the practical working
of the Constitution had been what its framers intended. Whatever control, then, the majority
may now exercise over taxation and public expenditure has thus been acquired less through any
constitutional provisions intended to secure it, than in spite of those which seemingly made
it impossible.

Equally significant was the failure of the Convention to make any adequate provision for enforcing
publicity. The Constitution says "a regular statement of the receipts and expenditures of public
money shall be published from time to time," and also that "each House shall keep a journal
of its proceedings, and from time to time publish the same, except such parts as may in their
judgment required secrecy."[124] That these provisions were of little practical value is evident
from the fact that they contain no definite statement as to when and how often the accounts
and journals are to be published. The phrase from time to time was susceptible of almost any
interpretation that either house of Congress or the President might wish to give it, and could
easily have been so construed as to justify a method of publication which gave the people but
little information concerning the present state of public affairs. The framers of the Constitution
did not believe that the management of the government was in any proper sense the people's
business; yet they realized that the people themselves took a different view of the matter,
which made some constitutional guarantee of publicity necessary. It was, however, the form
rather than the substance of such a guarantee which the Constitution contained.

Neither house of Congress is required by the Constitution to hold open sittings or publish
its speeches and debates.[125] Until 1799 the Senate exercised its constitutional right to
transact public business in secret; and during that period preserved no record of its debates.
This policy did not win for it the confidence of the people, and until after it was in a measure
abandoned, the Senate, notwithstanding the important powers conferred on it by the Constitution,
was not a very influential body.

To deny the right of the people to control the government leads naturally to denial of their
right to criticise those who shape its policy; since if free and unrestricted discussion and
even condemnation of official conduct were allowed, no system of minority rule could long survive.
This was well understood in the Federal Convention. The members of that body saw that the constitutional
right of public officials to disregard the wishes of the people was incompatible with the right
of the latter to drag them before the bar of public opinion. Hence some limitation of the right
to criticise public officials was necessary to safeguard and preserve their official independence.
This seems to have been the purpose of the Constitution in providing with reference to members
of Congress that "for any speech or debate in either House they shall not be questioned in
any other place."[126]

This provision may be traced to the English Bill of Rights where it was intended as a means
of protecting members of Parliament against imprisonment and prosecution for opposing the arbitrary
acts of the Crown. It was at first merely an assertion of the independence of the Lords and
Commons as against the King, and a denial of the right of the latter to call them to account
for anything said or done in their legislative capacity. But after it had accomplished its
original purpose and the tyrannical power of the King had been overthrown, it was found to
be serviceable in warding off attacks from another direction. It thus came about that the means
devised and employed by Parliament to shield its members against intimidation and oppression
at the hands of the King was later turned against the people; for Parliament in divesting the
King of his irresponsible authority was desirous only of establishing its own supremacy. It
jealously guarded its own prerogatives, claimed the right to govern independently, and just
as formerly it had resisted the encroachments of royal authority, it now resented the efforts
of the people to influence its policy by the publication and criticism of its proceedings.

A standing order passed by the House of Commons in 1728 declared "that it is an indignity to,
and a breach of, the privilege of this House for any person to presume to give in written or
printed newspapers, any account or minute of the debates or other proceedings; that upon discovery
of the authors, printers, or publishers of any such newspaper this House will proceed against
the offenders with the utmost severity."[127]

This was the attitude of Parliament down to 1771, when, after a prolonged and bitter struggle,
the House of Commons was finally driven by the force of an overwhelming public sentiment to
acquiesce in the publication of its proceedings.

There was, however, a small minority in the House that opposed the policy of prosecuting the
representatives of the press. The following extract from the Annual Register for 1771 describes
the attitude of this minority.

"Some gentlemen however did not rest their opposition on the points of decorum and prudence,
but went so far as to deny the authority of the House in this respect, and said that it was
an usurpation assumed in bad times, in the year 1641; that while their privileges and authority
were used in defense of the rights of the people, against the violence of the prerogative,
all men willingly joined in supporting them, and even their usurpations were considered as
fresh securities to their independence; but now that they saw their own weapons converted to
instruments of tyranny and oppression against themselves, they would oppose them with all their
might, and, however they may fail in the first efforts, would finally prevail, and assuredly
bring things back to their first principles. They also said that the practice of letting the
constituents know the parliamentary proceedings of their representatives was founded upon the
truest principles of the Constitution; and that even the publishing of supposed speeches was
not a novel practice, and if precedent was a justification, could be traced to no less an authority
than Lord Clarendon."[128]

"In the early years of the colonial era the right of free speech was not always well guarded.
There was frequent legislation, for example, against 'seditious utterances,' a term which might
mean almost anything. In 1639 the Maryland assembly passed an act for 'determining enormous
offences,' among which were included 'scandalous or contemptuous words or writings to the dishonor
of the lord proprietarie or his lieutenant generall for the time being, or any of the council.'
By a North Carolina act of 1715 seditious utterances against the government was made a criminal
offence, and in 1724 Joseph Castleton, for malicious language against Governor Burrington and
for other contemptuous remarks, was sentenced by the general court to stand in the pillory
for two hours and on his knees to beg the governor's pardon. A New Jersey act of 1675 required
that persons found guilty of resisting the authority of the governor or councillors 'either
in words or actions ... by speaking contemptuously, reproachfully, or maliciously, of any of
them,' should be liable to fine, banishment, or corporal punishment at the discretion of the
court. In Massachusetts even during the eighteenth century the right of free political discussion
was denied by the House of Representatives as well as by the royal governor, though often unsuccessfully."[129]

"The general publication of parliamentary debates dates only from the American Revolution,
and even then it was still considered a technical breach of privilege.

"The American colonies followed the practice of the parent country. Even the laws were not
at first published for general circulation, and it seemed to be thought desirable by the magistrates
to keep the people in ignorance of the precise boundary between that which was lawful and that
which was prohibited, as more likely to avoid all doubtful actions....

"The public bodies of the united nation did not at once invite publicity to their deliberations.
The Constitutional Convention of 1787 sat with closed doors, and although imperfect reports
of the debates have since been published, the injunction of secrecy upon its members was never
removed. The Senate for a time followed this example, and the first open debate was had in
1793, on the occasion of the controversy over the right of Mr. Gallatin to a seat in that body.
The House of Representatives sat with open doors from the first, tolerating the presence of
reporters,--over whose admission, however, the Speaker assumed control,--and refusing in 1796
the pittance of two thousand dollars for full publication of its debates.

"It must be evident from these historical facts that liberty of the press, as now understood
and enjoyed, is of very recent origin."[130]

Both the original purpose of this parliamentary privilege and its subsequent abuse not only
in England but also in the Colonies, were facts well known by those who framed the Constitution.
There was no King here, from whose arbitrary acts Congress would need to be protected, but
there was a power which the framers of the Constitution regarded as no less tyrannical and
fully as much to be feared--the power of the people as represented by the numerical majority.
How to guard against this new species of tyranny was the problem that confronted them. The
majority was just as impatient of restraint, just as eager to brush aside all opposition as
king or aristocracy had ever been in the past. Taking this view of the matter, it was but natural
that they should seek to protect Congress against the people as Parliament had formerly been
protected against the Crown. For exactly the same reason as we have seen, they made the judges
independent of the people as they had been made independent of the King in England. In no other
way was it possible to limit the power of the majority.

That this provision concerning freedom of speech and debate in the legislative body was not
regarded as especially important during the Revolutionary period is shown by its absence from
most of the early state constitutions. When the Federal Constitution was framed only three
of the original states[131] had adopted constitutions containing such a provision. There was,
as a matter of fact, no real need for it in the state constitutions of that time. The controlling
influence exerted by the legislature in the state government, and the dependence of the courts
upon that body, precluded the possibility of any abuse of their powers in this direction. Here,
as in the English Bill of Rights and in the state constitutions containing a similar provision,
reference is made in express terms to prosecution in the courts. The framers of the Constitution,
however, left out all reference to the courts. If, as constitutional writers have generally
assumed, the framers of the Constitution intended by this provision to protect members of Congress
against prosecution in the courts, it is difficult to understand why they should have omitted
what had been the main feature and purpose of this provision, not only in the original Bill
of Rights, but also in the state constitutions copying it and in the Articles of Confederation.
If what they had in mind was the danger of prosecution in the state or Federal courts, why
should they have changed completely the wording of this provision by omitting all reference
to the very danger which they wished to guard against?

The checks thus far described were intended as a substitute for king and aristocracy; but to
make the Constitution acceptable to the people, additional checks were required which the English
government did not contain. The division of authority in the latter was solely between different
classes or orders, each of which was supposed to represent interests co-extensive with the
realm. But while the power of each class was thus limited, their joint and combined action
was subject to no constitutional check or limitation whatever. Any policy upon which they agreed
could be enforced in any part of the realm, since the Constitution, recognizing no local interests,
gave no political subdivision a negative on the acts of the whole. The government of England,
then, was purely national as opposed to federal, that is to say the general government was
supreme in all respects and the local government merely its creature.

This was the type of government for which Hamilton contended and which a majority of the delegates
in the Federal Convention really favored. But the difficulty of securing the adoption of a
Constitution framed on this plan made it impracticable. To merge the separate states in a general
government possessing unlimited authority would place all local interests at the mercy of what
the people regarded as virtually a foreign power. Practical considerations, then, required
that the Constitution should in appearance at least conform to the federal rather than to the
national type. Accordingly the powers of government were divided into two classes, one embracing
only those of an admittedly general character, which were enumerated and delegated to the general
government, while the rest were left in the possession of the states. In form and appearance
the general government and the governments of the various states were coordinate and supplementary,
each being supreme and sovereign within its respective sphere. By this arrangement any appearance
of subordination on the part of the state governments was carefully avoided; and since the
state retained sovereign authority within the sphere assigned to it by the Constitution, the
protection of local interests was thereby guaranteed. This understanding of the Constitution
seems to have been encouraged by those who desired its adoption and was undoubtedly the only
interpretation which would have found favor with the people generally. Moreover, it was a perfectly
natural and logical development of the theory of checks. If the President, Senate, House of
Representatives and the Supreme Court were coordinate branches of the general government, and
each therefore a check on the authority of the others, a like division of authority between
the general government as a whole on the one hand, and the states on the other, must of necessity
imply a defensive power in the state to prevent encroachment on the authority reserved to it.
And since the government was federal and not national, and since the state government was coordinate
with and not subordinate to the general government, the conclusion was inevitable that the
former was a check on the latter in exactly the same way that each branch of the general government
was a check on the others.

This view of the Constitution while allowed to go unchallenged for the time being to secure
its adoption by the states, was not accepted, however, by those who framed it. For although
in outward appearance the Constitution did not provide for a national government, it at least
contained the germs out of which a national government might in time be developed. The complete
supremacy of the general government was one important result which the members of the Convention
desired to bring about. Several plans were proposed by which this supremacy should be expressly
recognized in the Constitution. Both Randolph and Charles Pinckney favored giving a negative
on state laws to Congress.[133] Madison suggested giving it to the Senate. Hamilton, as we
have seen, proposed giving an absolute veto to the governors of the various states, who were
to be appointed by the President. According to another plan this power was to be given jointly
to the President and the judges of the Supreme Court. All of these proposals to give the general
government in express terms the power to annul state laws were finally rejected by the Convention,
no doubt for the reason that they indicated too clearly their intention to subordinate the
state governments. But while declining to confer this power in express terms, it was not their
intention to withhold it. As in the case of the judicial veto on congressional legislation,
they relied upon control over the Constitution after its adoption to accomplish their end.

The omission from the Constitution of any provision which clearly and unequivocally defined
the relation of the general government to the governments of the various states was not a mere
oversight. The members of the Convention evidently thought that to ensure the acceptance of
the Constitution, it was necessary to submit it in a form least likely to excite the opposition
of the states. They expected by controlling its interpretation to be able after its adoption
to mold it into a shape more in accord with their own views. The choice of this method, though
the only one by which it was possible to attain their end, involved consequences more serious
and far-reaching than they imagined. It paved the way for a constitutional struggle which lasted
for three-quarters of a century and finally convulsed the country in the greatest civil war
of modern times. Had the Constitution in so many words expressly declared that the Federal
judiciary should have the power to annul state laws, or had it given this power to some other
branch of the Federal government in accordance with some one of the suggestions above mentioned,
and had it at the same time expressly withheld from the states the power to negative acts of
Congress, there would have been no room for doubt that the general government was the final
and exclusive judge in all cases of conflict between Federal and state authority.

Such a provision would have left no room for the doctrine of state rights, or its corollary--the
power of a state to nullify a Federal law. It would have settled the question of Federal supremacy
beyond the possibility of controversy by relegating the states to a strictly subordinate place
in our political system. But inasmuch as the Constitution contained no provision of this character
it left the states in a position to defend their claim to coordinate rank with the general
government.

The adoption of the Constitution was merely the first step in this program of political reconstruction.
To carry through to a successful issue the work undertaken by the Federal Convention, it was
necessary that the same influences that dominated the latter should also control the new government
by which the Constitution was to be interpreted and applied. How well they succeeded may be
seen in the impress left upon our system by the twelve years of Federalist rule which followed
its adoption. During this period the Constitution was in the hands of those who were in full
sympathy with the purpose of its framers, and who sought to complete the work which they had begun.

In shaping the policy of the government during this period the influence of Hamilton was even
more pronounced than it had been in the Federal Convention. As Secretary of the Treasury he
proposed and brought about the adoption of a financial policy in harmony with his political
views. Believing that the government must have the confidence of the conservative and well-to-do
classes, he framed a policy which was calculated to gain their support by appealing to their
material interests. The assumption by the general government of the state debts incurred during
the Revolutionary war was designed and had the effect of detaching the creditor class from
dependence upon the governments of the various states and allying them to the general government.
The protective tariff system also had far-reaching political significance. It was expected
to develop an influential manufacturing class who would look to the general government as the
source of their prosperity, and who would therefore support its authority as against that of
the states. To unite the moneyed interests and identify them with the general government was
one of the reasons for chartering the bank of the United States. The internal revenue system
which enabled the general government to place its officials in every community and make its
authority directly felt throughout all the states was a political as well as a financial measure.
It was prompted partly by the desire to appropriate this field of taxation before it was laid
hold of by the states and partly by the desire to accustom the people to the exercise of Federal
authority. All these measures which were formulated by Hamilton and carried through largely
by his influence were intended to lay a solid basis for the development of national as opposed
to state authority.

It was the purpose of the Constitution as we have seen to establish the supremacy of the so-called
upper class. To consolidate its various elements and bring the government under their control
was the aim of the Federalist party.

That such a policy should have aroused much popular opposition and provoked bitter criticism
was to be expected. Criticism, however, was especially irritating to those who accepted the
Federalist theory of government. For if the few had a right to rule the many, then the latter,
as a matter of course, ought to treat the former with respect; since otherwise the power and
influence of the minority might be overthrown.

The Alien and Sedition laws by which the governing class sought to repress criticism were the
logical culmination of this movement to limit the power of the majority. This attempt, however,
to muzzle the press and overthrow the right of free speech instead of silencing the opposition
only strengthened and intensified it. It merely augmented the rising tide of popular disapproval
which was soon to overwhelm the Federalist party.

The Constitution, as we have seen, did not expressly subordinate the states. Although framed
by those who wished to make the general government supreme, it contained no provision which
could not be so construed as to harmonize with the widely accepted doctrine of state rights.
It was represented by its framers and understood by the people generally as dividing sovereignty
between the general government on the one hand and the states on the other. Within the province
assigned to the state, it was to be supreme, which would naturally seem to imply adequate constitutional
power in the state to defend itself against federal aggression. This view of the Constitution,
if not actually encouraged, was allowed to go unchallenged in order not to endanger its adoption.

The Constitution is and was intended to be rigid only in the sense that it effectually limits
the power of the majority. The founders of our government were not averse to such changes in
the system which they established as would promote or at least not interfere with their main
purpose--the protection of the minority against the majority. Indeed, they intended that the
Constitution as framed should be modified, amended and gradually molded by judicial interpretation
into the form which they desired to give it, but which the necessity of minimizing popular
opposition prevented them from accomplishing at the outset. Amendment by judicial interpretation
was merely a means of conferring indirectly on the minority a power which the Constitution
expressly denied to the majority. No hint of this method of minority amendment, however, was
contained in the Constitution itself. But, on the contrary, any such view of the Constitution
would have been negatived by the general theory of checks and balances which, consistently
applied, would limit the power of the minority as well as that of the majority. It was not
reasonable to suppose that the Constitution contemplated placing in the hands of the minority
a power which it was so careful to withold from the majority. In fact, the language of the
Constitution warranted the belief that it was intended as a means of checking the general government
itself by protecting the states in the exercise of all those powers not expressly denied to
them. And since the Constitution, as we have seen, merely marked off the limits of federal
and state jurisdiction, without specifying how the general government on the one hand, or the
state government on the other, was to be kept within the territory assigned to it, it was natural
to suppose that it contemplated giving to each the same means of protecting itself against
the encroachments of the other.

Accordingly, when Congress appeared to overstep the limits which the Constitution set to its
authority, the states naturally looked for some means of making the checks imposed upon the
general government effective. True, the Constitution itself did not specify how this was to
be done; but neither could one find in it any provision for enforcing the limitations on the
authority of the states. The general government, however, had supplied itself with the means
of self-protection by calling into existence the veto power of the Federal judiciary. This
made the checks upon the authority of the states operative. But how were those imposed by the
Constitution on the general government itself to be enforced? Not by the Federal government
or any of its organs, since this would allow it to interpret the Constitution to suit itself.
If the general government should have the right to interpret and enforce the constitutional
limitations on the powers of the states, it would for a like reason follow that the states
should interpret and enforce the constitutional limitations on the authority of the general
government itself. To carry out in good faith what appeared to be the purpose of the Constitution,
i.e., to limit the authority of the general government as well as that of the states, it would
seem to be necessary to make each the judge of the other's powers. It would devolve then on
the state governments to keep the general government within the bounds which the Constitution
set to its authority.

This could be accomplished, however, in no other way than by a veto on such acts of the general
government as, in the opinion of the state, exceeded its constitutional authority. Those who
believed in a federal as opposed to a national government and who therefore wished to enforce
the constitutional checks on the general government, were irresistibly impelled toward the
doctrine of nullification as the sole means of protecting the rights of the states.

As Von Holst says, "Calhoun and his disciples were not the authors of the doctrine of nullification
and secession. That question is as old as the Constitution itself, and has always been a living
one, even when it has not been one of life and death. Its roots lay in the actual circumstances
of the time, and the Constitution was the living expression of these actual circumstances."[134]

Madison, in The Federalist, refers in a vague and indefinite manner to the power of a state
to oppose an unjustifiable act of the Federal government.

"Should an unwarrantable measure of the Federal government," he says, "be unpopular in particular
states ... the means of opposition to it are powerful and at hand. The disquietude of the people;
their repugnance, and perhaps refusal, to co-operate with the officers of the union; the frowns
of the executive magistracy of the state; the embarrassments created by legislative devices,
which would often be added on such occasions, would oppose, in any state, difficulties not
to be despised; would form in a large state, very serious impediments; and where the sentiments
of several adjoining states happened to be in unison, would present obstructions which the
Federal government would hardly be willing to encounter."[135]

Again he says, "The state government will have the advantage of the Federal government, whether
we compare them in respect to the immediate dependence of the one on the other; to the weight
of personal influence which each side will possess; to the powers respectively vested in them;
to the predilection and probable support of the people; to the disposition and faculty of resisting
and frustrating the measures of each other."[136]

It is doubtful whether Madison, in writing the passages above quoted, had in mind any thing
more than a general policy of opposition and obstruction on the part of the states. He certainly
intended, however, to convey the idea that under the proposed Constitution the states would
have no difficulty in defending their constitutional rights against any attempted usurpation
at the hands of the Federal government. We can trace the gradual development of this idea of
state resistance to Federal authority until it finally assumes a definite form in the doctrine
of nullification.

"A resolution [in the Maryland legislature] declaring the independence of the state governments
to be jeopardized by the assumption of the state debts by the Union was rejected only by the
casting vote of the speaker. In Virginia the two houses of the legislature sent a joint memorial
to Congress. They expressed the hope that the funding act would be reconsidered and that the
law providing for the assumption of the state debts would be repealed. These resolutions were
drawn by Madison who had now come to oppose the strong centralizing policy of the Federalists.

The Kentucky resolutions of 1799 go one step farther and give definite expression to the doctrine
of nullification. They declare "that the several states who formed that instrument [the Constitution],
being sovereign and independent, have the unquestionable right to judge of the infraction;
and, that a nullification, by those sovereignties, of all unauthorized acts done under color
of that instrument, is the rightful remedy."

The first clear and unequivocal statement of the doctrine of nullification may be traced to
Jefferson. In the original draft of the Kentucky resolutions of 1798, which he wrote, it is
asserted that where the Federal government assumes powers "which have not been delegated, a
nullification of the act is the rightful remedy; that every state has a natural right in cases
not within the compact (casus non foederis) to nullify of their own authority, all assumptions
of power by others within their limits."[138] This was omitted, however, from the resolutions
as finally adopted, although included in substance, as we have seen, in the Kentucky resolutions
of 1799.

Jefferson's authorship of the original draft of the Kentucky resolutions of 1798 is made the
basis of Von Holst's contention that he was the father of the doctrine of nullification. This,
however, is something of an exaggeration. He is more accurate when he refers to the doctrine
as being as old as the Constitution itself and the outgrowth of the circumstances of the time.
The prevalent conception of the state as a check upon the Federal government derived support,
as we have seen, from the efforts of the framers of the Constitution themselves to give it
an interpretation that would remove as far as possible the obstacles to its ratification by
allaying the fears and jealousy of the states. The idea that the state government could oppose
and resist an unconstitutional exercise of authority by the Federal government was widely accepted
as a general principle, although little attention had been given to the practical application
of the doctrine. Jefferson merely gave definite form to what had been a more or less vague
conception by showing how the constitutional checks upon the Federal government could be made
effective.

The best statement of this doctrine, however, is to be found in the works of John C. Calhoun,
whose Disquisition on Government and Discourse on the Constitution of the United States are
a masterly defense of the system of checks and balances. He had no sympathy with what would
now be called popular government. His point of view was essentially aristocratic, and he frankly
avowed it.

He recognized the fact that under the existing social organization the interests of all classes
are not the same; that there is a continual struggle between them; and that any interest or
combination of interests obtaining control of the government will seek their own welfare at
the expense of the rest. This, he claimed, made it necessary to so organize the government
as to give the minority the means of self-protection. To give to the minority this constitutional
power would tend to prevent the selfish struggle to obtain possession of the government, since
it would deprive the majority of all power to aggrandize themselves at the expense of the minority.
The very essence of constitutional government, according to his view, was the protection afforded
to the minority through the limitation of the power of the majority. To accomplish the true
end of constitutional government, which is the limitation of the power of the numerical majority,
it is necessary, he contended, that the various classes or interests should be separately represented,
and that each through its proper organ should have a veto on the acts of the others. In a government
so organized no measure could be enacted into law and no policy enforced, unless it had received
the assent of each element recognized in the Constitution. This method of taking the sense
of the community, which required the concurrence of its several parts, he termed that of the
concurrent majority.

This principle of class representation, he maintained, was fundamental in the American Constitution,
which recognized for certain purposes the numerical majority as one of its elements, but only
for certain purposes. For he tells us, and correctly, that "the numerical majority is, strictly
speaking, excluded, even as one of its elements."[139] In support of this statement he undertakes
to show that the numerical majority could not even prevent the amendment of the Constitution,
since through a combination of the smaller states an amendment desired by the minority could
be forced through in opposition to the wishes of the majority. He might have added that it
was the intention of those who framed our government to allow the minority a free hand in amending
by the method of constitutional interpretation; and also that they intended to deny to the
numerical majority a veto on treaties and appointments. This refusal to recognize the numerical
majority even as one of the coordinate elements in the government was as hereinbefore shown
inconsistent with the doctrine of checks, and is to be explained on the theory that they wished
to subordinate the democratic element in the Constitution.

Calhoun argued that the growth of political parties had broken down our system of constitutional
checks. The Constitution as originally adopted made no mention of, and allowed no place for
these voluntary political organizations. In fact, the purpose of the political party was diametrically
opposed to and subversive of all that was fundamental in the Constitution itself, since it
aimed at nothing less than the complete destruction of the system of checks by bringing every
branch of the government under its control. To the extent that it had achieved its purpose,
it had consolidated the powers of the general government and brought them, he contended, under
the direct control of the numerical majority, which was the very thing that the framers of
the Constitution wished to guard against.

The complete control which the numerical majority had thus obtained over the Federal government
made it supremely important that all constitutional power vested in the several states to resist
Federal aggression should be actively employed. That the states had the power under the Constitution
to check the general government when it attempted to overstep the limits set to its authority
was necessarily implied in the fact that our system of government was federal and not national.
His argument proceeded on the theory encouraged by the framers of the Constitution that the
general government and the state governments were coordinate. "The idea of coordinates," he
tells us, "excludes that of superior and subordinate, and necessarily implies that of equality.
But to give either the right, not only to judge of the extent of its own powers, but, also,
of that of its coordinate, and to enforce its decision against it, would be, not only to destroy
the equality between them, but to deprive one of an attribute--appertaining to all governments--to
judge, in the first instance, of the extent of its powers. The effect would be to raise one
from an equal to a superior, and to reduce the other from an equal to a subordinate."[140]

From this it would follow that neither should have the exclusive right to judge of its own
powers--that each should have a negative on the acts of the others. That this was the intention
of the framers of the Constitution he argues from the fact that all efforts in the Convention
to give the general government a negative on the acts of the states were unsuccessful. The
efforts to confer this power, he contends, were made because it was seen that in the absence
of such a provision the states would have a negative on the acts of the general government.
The failure of these efforts in the Convention was due, he claims, to the fact that the members
of that body wished to make the general government and the state governments coordinate, instead
of subordinating the latter to the former as the advocates of a national government desired.
The fact upon which Calhoun based this contention would seem to justify his conclusion; but
if we consult the debates which took place in that body, it is easily seen that the refusal
of the Convention to incorporate such a provision in the Constitution can not be ascribed to
any hostility on the part of that body to national government. In fact, as hereinbefore shown,
it was for purely practical reasons that they rejected all proposals which contemplated the
recognition in the Constitution itself of the supremacy of the general government. While declining
to allow a provision of this character to be incorporated in the Constitution, they by no means
disapproved of a strong supreme central government, but merely adopted a less direct and therefore
easier method of attaining their end.

While Calhoun maintained that in order to make the limitations on the authority of the general
government effective it was necessary that a state should have a veto on Federal laws, he did
not contend that the verdict of a state should be final. It would still be possible for the
general government to override the veto of a state by procuring a constitutional amendment
which would remove all doubt as to its right to exercise the power in question. This method
of appeal, he argued, was always open to the general government, since it represented and was
in the hands of the numerical majority. This would be true, however, only when the party in
power had the requisite two-thirds majority in both houses of Congress, or at least controlled
the legislatures in two-thirds of the states. Otherwise its control of the general government
would not enable it to propose the desired constitutional amendment. With this qualification
Calhoun's contention was correct. On the other hand the state could not defend itself against
Federal aggression, since, belonging to the minority, it would have no means of compelling
the submission of a constitutional amendment involving the point in dispute. The effect of
a state veto on an act of Congress would be to compel the latter to choose between abandoning
the law in question as unconstitutional and appealing to the constitution-making power in defense
of its claim. If it chose the latter alternative and succeeded in having its authority supported
by an appropriate constitutional amendment, there was nothing for the state to do but submit,
provided that the amendment in question was one clearly within the scope of the amending power.
If, as Calhoun assumed, it was the purpose of the Constitution to withhold from a mere majority
in control of the general government the power to enact and enforce unconstitutional legislation,
the veto of a state would seem to be the only means by which the constitutional rights of a
minority of the states could be protected.

Calhoun did not question the right of the Supreme Court of the United States to declare an
act of Congress null and void, or its right to pass judgment upon the Constitution or the laws
of a state when they were attacked as in conflict with the Federal Constitution in a case before
it. This right, he contended, belonged to all courts whether federal or state. A decision of
the Supreme Court of the United States adverse to the constitution or law of a state was, however,
he maintained, binding only on the general government itself and the parties to the suit. As
against the state it had no power to enforce its decision.

His entire argument rests upon the assumption that the Federal and state governments are co-equal
and not superior and subordinate. This line of argument naturally led to the conclusion that
the Federal and state courts were coordinate. It was perfectly natural for the advocate of
state rights to take this view of the matter. Moreover there was nothing in the Constitution
which expressly contradicted it. The framers of that instrument, as hereinbefore shown, did
not wish to make an open attack on the generally accepted doctrine of state sovereignty before
the Constitution was adopted. Their purpose was fully disclosed only after they had obtained
control of the new government under the Constitution. To carry out their plan of subordinating
the states, it was necessary to establish the supremacy of the Federal judiciary.

This act, while expressly conferring upon the Supreme Court of the United States the power
to veto a state law, at the same time denied to a state court the right to treat as unconstitutional
a statute, treaty, or authority exercised under the general government. The question might
properly be asked why this provision was not incorporated in the Constitution itself. Why did
not the framers of that document clearly define the relation of the Federal to the state courts?
To have included the substance of this act in the Constitution as submitted to the states,
would have precluded the possibility of any future controversy concerning the relation of the
Federal to the state courts. From the point of view of practical politics, however, there was
one unanswerable argument against this plan. It would have clearly indicated the intention
of the framers of the Constitution, but in doing so, it would for that very reason have aroused
opposition which it would have been impossible to overcome. This is why the matter of defining
the relation of the Federal to the state courts was deferred until after the Constitution had
been ratified by the states. They chose the only practicable means of accomplishing their purpose.
With all branches of the Federal government under their control, they were able to enact a
law which virtually amended the Constitution. Calhoun argues that in passing this act Congress
exceeded the powers granted to it by the Constitution. What he fails to recognize, however,
is the fact that this measure, although at variance with the interpretation placed upon the
Constitution by the people generally, was, nevertheless, in entire harmony with the general
purpose of its framers and necessary to carry that purpose into effect.

The view of the American Constitution herein presented may not be familiar to the average reader
of our political literature. For notwithstanding the overwhelming proof of the aristocratic
origin of our constitutional arrangements accessible to the unbiassed student, the notion has
been sedulously cultivated that our general government was based on the theory of majority
rule. Unfounded as an analysis of our political institutions shows this belief to be, it has
by dint of constant repetition come to be widely accepted. It is beyond question that the Constitution
was not so regarded by the people at the beginning of our national life. How, then, was this
change in the attitude of the public brought about? There has doubtless been more than one
influence that has contributed to this result. The abundant natural resources of the country
and the material prosperity of the people are a factor that cannot be ignored. To these must
in a measure be ascribed the uncritical attitude of mind, the prevailing indifference to political
conditions, and the almost universal optimism which have characterized the American people.
This lack of general attention to and interest in the more serious and profound questions of
government has been favorable to the inculcation and acceptance of ideas of the system utterly
at variance with its true character. Still, with all due allowance for these favoring conditions,
it is hard to find a satisfactory explanation of the process by which the worshipers of democracy
came to deify an undemocratic constitution. The desire of the conservative classes to preserve
and perpetuate the system by presenting it in the guise of democracy, and their influence upon
the political thought of the people generally must be regarded as the chief factor in bringing
about this extraordinary change in public opinion. Hostile criticism of the Constitution soon
"gave place to an undiscriminating and almost blind worship of its principles ... and criticism
was estopped.... The divine right of kings never ran a more prosperous course than did this
unquestioned prerogative of the Constitution to receive universal homage. The conviction that
our institutions were the best in the world, nay more, the model to which all civilized states
must sooner or later conform, could not be laughed out of us by foreign critics, nor shaken
out of us by the roughest jars of the system."[142]

CHAPTER VII

UNDEMOCRATIC DEVELOPMENT

It has been shown that the main purpose of the Constitution was to limit the power of the people.
The recognition of this fact enables us to understand much of the subsequent development of
our political institutions--a development for which the generally accepted theory of our system
affords no adequate explanation. The erroneous view of the Constitution so generally inculcated
has thus far misled the public as to the true source of our political evils. It would indeed
be strange if some of the abuses incident to every form of minority rule had not made their
appearance under the operation of a system such as has been described. Where the influence
of public opinion has been so restricted, it would be but reasonable to expect that the practical
working of the government would reflect something of the spirit of the Constitution itself.
As a consequence of these limitations originally placed upon the power of the people, the development
of our system has not been wholly in the direction of democracy. The constitutional authority
conferred upon the minority has exerted a far-reaching influence upon the growth of our political
institutions. The natural effect of subordinating the democratic element would be to render
its influence more feeble as the system developed. That this has not been a purely imaginary
danger may be easily shown.

The Constitution expressly gave to the qualified voters of the various states the right to
control the House of Representatives. It was because of this fact, as explained in the preceding
chapter, that this body was subordinated in our scheme of government. Even the most perfect
control over this branch would have given the people no positive control over the government
as a whole. At the most, it conceded to them merely a negative on a part of the acts and policy
of the government. Yet popular control over this branch of the government has become less and
less effective as our political system has developed.

It also requires that the members of the House of Representatives shall be elected every second
year; but as originally adopted it does not specify when their term of office shall begin.

After the ratification of the Constitution the Congress of the Confederation on September 13,
1788, designated March 4, 1789, as the time for commencing proceedings under the new régime.
This made the term of office of President, Senators, and Representatives begin on that date.

An act of Congress, March 1, 1792, provided that the term of office of President should "in
all cases, commence on the fourth day of March next succeeding the day on which the votes of
the electors shall have been given."

This date was recognized as the beginning of the President's term of office by the Twelfth
Amendment to the Constitution, which went into effect in 1804. By implication this amendment
makes the term of representatives begin on the fourth of March of each odd year.

Congress, exercising the power vested in it by the Constitution to regulate Federal elections,
enacted a law bearing date of February 2, 1872, which requires the election of representatives
to be held on the Tuesday next after the first Monday in November of each even year, beginning
with the year 1876. By act of March 3, 1875, this was modified so as not to apply to any state
whose constitution would have to be amended before the day fixed for electing state officers
could be changed in conformity with this provision.[144]

Congress has no power to change the date on which the term of office of a representative begins;
but it does have authority to change the time of electing the House of Representatives, and
also to determine when its own sessions shall begin, subject to the constitutional limitation
that it shall meet at least once each year.

Under the law as it now stands the members of a newly elected House of Representatives do not
meet in regular session until thirteen months after their election. Moreover, the second regular
session does not begin until after the succeeding Congress has been elected.

The evils of this arrangement are thus described by a member of the House:

"The lower branch of Congress should at the earliest practicable time enact the principles
of the majority of the people as expressed in the election of each Congress. That is why the
Constitution requires the election of a new Congress every two years. If it were not to reflect
the sentiments of the people then frequent elections would have no meaning or purpose. Any
evasion of that rule is subversive of the fundamental principle of our government that the
majority shall rule. No other government in the world has its legislative body convene so long
after the expression of the people....

"As an election often changes the political complexion of a Congress, under the present law,
many times we have the injustice of a Congress that has been repudiated by the people enacting
laws for the people diametrically opposed to the last expression of the people. Such a condition
is an outrage on the rights of the majority....

"Under the present law a representative in Congress who has been turned down by the people
legislates for that people in the second regular session....

"A man who has been defeated for re-election is not in a fit frame of mind to legislate for
his people. There is a sting in defeat that tends to engender the feeling of resentment which
often finds expression in the vote of such members against wholesome legislation. That same
feeling often produces such a want of interest in proceedings as to cause the members to be
absent nearly all the second session....

"It is then that some are open to propositions which they would never think of entertaining
if they were to go before the people for re-election. It is then that the attorneyship of some
corporation is often tendered and a vote is afterward found in the record in favor of legislation
of a general or special character favoring the corporation."[145]

To appreciate the magnitude of the evils above described, it is necessary to remember that
upon the average only about one-half of the members of one Congress are elected to the succeeding
Congress. This large number is, therefore, influenced during the second regular session neither
by the hope of re-election nor the fear of defeat. Under these circumstances it is not surprising
that the second regular session should be notoriously favorable to corporation measures.

That Congress has not attempted to remedy this evil is striking proof of its indifference to
the wishes of the people. Otherwise it would have so employed the power which it possesses
to perfect its organization, as to ensure the most prompt and complete expression of public
opinion in legislation possible under our constitutional arrangements. Having the power to
change both the time of electing a Congress and the beginning of its sessions, it could easily
remedy the evils described. Both sessions of a Congress could be held before the succeeding
Congress is elected. This could be accomplished by having Congress convene, as advocated by
the writer of the article above mentioned, for the first regular session on the Monday following
the fourth of March next after the election, and for the second regular session on the first
Monday after January first of the following year. In this case the second regular session would
doubtless come to an end before the fall election. Some such adjustment is required to give
the people anything like adequate control over the House of Representatives during the second
regular session.

The present arrangement which makes the House of Representatives largely an irresponsible body,
while not provided for or perhaps even contemplated by the framers of the Constitution, is
nevertheless the logical outcome of their plan to throttle the power of the majority. But although
in harmony with the general purpose and spirit of the Constitution, it is a flagrant violation
of the basic principle of popular government.[146]

This tendency may be still more clearly seen in the growth of the committee system by which
the division of power and its consequence, political irresponsibility, have been carried much
farther than the Constitution contemplated, especially in the organization of the House, of
Representatives. No standing committees were provided for by the Constitution and few were
established by the House during the early years of its existence. The system once introduced,
however, has gradually developed until the House now has more than fifty-five of these committees.

Every legislative proposal must under the rules after its second reading be referred to the
committee having jurisdiction over that particular branch of legislation. Theoretically, any
member has a right to introduce any bill whatever. But as it must be referred to the proper
committee and be reported by it to the House before the latter can discuss and adopt or reject
it, it is evident that the right to initiate legislation has in effect been taken from the
individual members and vested in the various standing committees. Under this method of procedure
no proposed legislation can be enacted by the House without the consent of the committee having
that particular branch of legislation in charge. The fact that a measure must be referred to
a committee does not imply that that committee is obliged to report it back to the House. This
the committee will, of course, do if the proposed bill is one which it wishes to have passed.
But if it views the proposed legislation with disfavor, it may revise it so as to make it conform
to its own wishes, or it may report it so late in the session as to prevent its consideration
by the House, or it may neglect to report it altogether. This virtually gives a small body
of men constituting a committee a veto on every legislative proposal. The extent to which this
system diminishes the responsibility of the House can not be fully appreciated without bearing
in mind the manner of appointment and composition of the committees. The Constitution provides
that "the House of Representatives shall choose their speaker and other officers,"[147] but
it makes no mention of the speaker's powers. The right to appoint the committees is not conferred
on the speaker by the Constitution. The extent and character of the powers exercised by that
official are determined very largely by the rules and usages of the House. This is the source
of his power to appoint the chairman and other members of the various standing committees.

The speaker is elected at the beginning of each Congress and retains his office during the
life of that body. The same is now true of the standing committees which he appoints, though
previous to 1861 they were appointed for the session only.

The speaker is, of course, a member of the dominant party in the House, and is expected to
use the powers and prerogatives of his office to advance in all reasonable ways the interests
of the party which he represents. The selection of committees which he makes is naturally enough
influenced by various considerations of a political and personal nature. It is largely determined
by the influences to which he owes his elevation to the speakership. In return for the support
of influential members in his own party certain important chairmanships have been promised
in advance. And even where no definite pledges have been made he must use the appointive power
in a manner that will be acceptable to his party. This does not always prevent him, however,
from exercising enough freedom in making up the committees to insure him a large measure of
control over legislation.

All the chairmanships and a majority of the places on each committee are given to the members
of his own party. As the speaker's right to appoint does not carry with it the power to remove,
he has no control over a committee after it is appointed. The committees, as a matter of fact,
are in no true sense responsible either to the speaker or to the House itself, since once appointed
they can do as they please. They are in fact just so many small, independent, irresponsible
bodies, each controlling in its own way and from motives known only to itself the particular
branch of legislation assigned to it. The only semblance of responsibility attaching to the
committee is found in the party affiliation of the majority of its members with the majority
in the House. But ineffectual and intangible as this is, it is rendered even more so by the
fact that the opposition party is also represented on each committee. This allows the dominant
party to escape responsibility, since it can claim that its failure to satisfy the popular
demand has been due to the opposition of the minority in the various committees, which has
made concession and compromise necessary.

"The deliberations of committees," as Bryce says, "are usually secret. Evidence is frequently
taken with open doors, but the newspapers do not report it, unless the matter excite public
interest; and even the decisions arrived at are often noticed in the briefest way. It is out
of order to canvass the proceedings of a committee in the House until they have been formally
reported to it; and the report submitted does not usually state how the members have voted,
or contain more than a very curt outline of what has passed. No member speaking in the House
is entitled to reveal anything further."[148]

A system better adapted to the purposes of the lobbyist could not be devised. "It gives facilities
for the exercise of underhand and even corrupt influence. In a small committee the voice of
each member is well worth securing, and may be secured with little danger of a public scandal.
The press can not, even when the doors of committee rooms stand open, report the proceedings
of fifty bodies; the eye of the nation can not follow and mark what goes on within them; while
the subsequent proceedings in the House are too hurried to permit a ripping up there of suspicious
bargains struck in the purlieus of the Capital, and fulfilled by votes given in a committee."[149]

A system which puts the power to control legislation in the hands of these small independent
bodies and at the same time shields them so largely against publicity affords ample opportunity
for railway and other corporate interests to exercise a controlling influence upon legislation.

This subdivision of the legislative power of the House and its distribution among many small,
irresponsible bodies precludes the possibility of any effective party control over legislation.
And since the majority in the House can not control its own agents there can be no effective
party responsibility. To ensure responsibility the party in the majority must act as a unit
and be opposed by an active and united minority. But our committee system disintegrates both
the majority and the minority.

Another practice which has augmented the authority and at the same time diminished the responsibility
of the committees is the hurried manner in which the House disposes of the various measures
that come before it. The late Senator Hoar has estimated that the entire time which the House
allows for this purpose during the two sessions which make up the life of a Congress "gives
an average of no more than two hours apiece to the committees of the House to report upon,
debate, and dispose of all the subjects of general legislation committed to their charge. From
this time is taken the time consumed in reading the bill, and in calling the yeas and nays,
which may be ordered by one-fifth of the members present, and which require forty minutes for
a single roll-call."[150]

Moreover, the member "who reports the bill dictates how long the debate shall last, who shall
speak on each side, and whether any and what amendments shall be offered. Any member fit to
be intrusted with the charge of an important measure would be deemed guilty of an inexcusable
blunder if he surrendered the floor which the usages of the House assign to his control for
an hour, without demanding the previous question."[151]

Nothing more would seem to be necessary to give the committee control of the situation. True
the House may reject the bill which it submits, but the committee may easily prevent the House
from voting upon a measure which a majority of that body desires to enact.

As there are many committees and the time which the House can give to the consideration of
their reports is limited, it naturally follows that each committee is anxious to get all other
business out of the way in order that it may have an opportunity to bring the measures which
it has prepared to the attention of the House. This struggle between the various committees
for an opportunity to report the bills which they have framed and have them considered by the
House explains the acquiescence of that body in a system that so greatly restricts the freedom
of debate. Very rarely will a committee encounter any formidable opposition in bringing the
discussion of its measures to a close.

The speaker's power of recognition is another check upon the majority in the House. This power
which he freely uses in an arbitrary manner enables him to prevent the introduction of an obnoxious
bill by refusing to recognize a member who wishes to obtain the floor for that purpose.[152]
Moreover, as chairman of the Committee on Rules he virtually has the power to determine the
order in which the various measures shall be considered by the House. In this way he can secure
an opportunity for those bills which he wishes the House to pass and ensure the defeat of those
to which he is opposed by giving so many other matters the preference that they can not be
reached before the close of the second session.

The power thus exercised by the speaker, coupled with that of the committees, imposes an effectual
restraint not only on the individual members, but on the majority as well. A large majority
of the bills introduced are vetoed by the committees or "killed" by simply not reporting them
back to the House. There is no way in which the House can override the veto of a committee
or that of the speaker, since even when the rules are suspended no measure can be considered
that has not been previously reported by a committee, while the speaker can enforce his veto
through his power of recognition. Both the committees and the speaker have what is for all
practical purposes an absolute veto on legislation.

A motion to suspend the rules and pass any bill that has been reported to the House may be
made on the first and third Mondays of each month or during the last six days of each session.
"In this way, if two-thirds of the body agree, a bill is by a single vote, without discussion
and without change, passed through all the necessary stages, and made law so far as the consent
of the House can accomplish it. And in this mode hundreds of measures of vital importance receive,
near the close of exhausting sessions, without being debated, amended, printed, or understood,
the constitutional assent of the representatives of the American people."[153]

This system which so effectually restricts the power of the majority in the House affords no
safeguard against local or class legislation. By making it difficult for any bill however worthy
of consideration to receive a hearing on its own merits, it naturally leads to the practice
known as log-rolling. The advocates of a particular measure may find that it can not be passed
unless they agree to support various other measures of which they disapprove. It thus happens
that many of the bills passed by the House are the result of this bargaining between the supporters
of various measures. Certain members in order to secure the passage of a bill in which they
are especially interested will support and vote for other bills which they would prefer to
vote against. In this way many bills secure a favorable vote in the House when a majority of
that body are really opposed to their enactment. It is entirely within the bounds of possibility
that no important measure desired by the people at large and which would be supported by a
majority of the House, can be passed, since any powerful private interest opposed to such legislation
may be able to have the measure in question quietly killed in committee or otherwise prevented
from coming to a final vote in the House. But while legislation in the interest of the people
generally may be defeated through the silent but effective opposition of powerful private interests,
many other measures which ought to be defeated are allowed to pass. A system which makes it
possible to defeat the will of the majority in the House by preventing on the one hand the
enactment of laws which that majority favors, and by permitting on the other hand the enactment
of laws to which it is opposed, certainly does not allow public opinion to exercise an effective
control over the proceedings of the House.

As a foreign critic observes, "the House has ceased to be a debating assembly: it is only an
instrument for hasty voting on the proposals which fifty small committees have prepared behind
closed doors.... At the present time it is very much farther from representing the people than
if, instead of going as far as universal suffrage, it had kept to an infinitely narrower franchise,
but had preserved at the same time the freedom, fullness, and majesty of its debates."[154]

CHAPTER VIII

THE PARTY SYSTEM

The political party is a voluntary association which seeks to enlist a majority of voters under
its banner and thereby gain control of the government. As the means employed by the majority
to make its will effective, it is irreconcilably opposed to all restraints upon its authority.
Party government in this sense is the outcome of the efforts of the masses to establish their
complete and untrammeled control of the state.

This is the reason why conservative statesmen of the eighteenth century regarded the tendency
towards party government as the greatest political evil of the time. Far-sighted men saw clearly
that its purpose was revolutionary; that if accomplished, monarchy and aristocracy would be
shorn of all power; that the checks upon the masses would be swept away and the popular element
made supreme. This would lead inevitably to the overthrow of the entire system of special privilege
which centuries of class rule had carefully built up and protected.

When our Constitution was framed responsible party government had not been established in England.
In theory the Constitution of Great Britain recognized three coordinate powers, the King, the
Lords, and the Commons. But as a matter of fact the government of England was predominantly
aristocratic. The landed interests exerted a controlling influence even in the House of Commons.
The rapidly growing importance of capital had not yet seriously impaired the constitutional
authority of the landlord class. Land had been until recently the only important form of wealth;
and the right to a voice in the management of the government was still an incident of land
ownership. Men as such were not entitled to representation. The property-owning classes made
the laws and administered them, officered the army and navy, and controlled the policy of the
government in every direction.

"According to a table prepared about 1815, the House of Commons contained 471 members who owed
their seats to the goodwill and pleasure of 144 Peers and 123 Commoners, 16 government nominees,
and only 171 members elected by popular suffrages."[155]

As the real power behind the government was the aristocracy of wealth, the English system,
though nominally one of checks and balances, closely resembled in its practical working an
unlimited aristocracy.

The framers of our Constitution, as shown in previous chapters, took the English government
for their model and sought to establish the supremacy of the well-to-do classes. Like the English
conservatives of that time they deplored the existence of political parties and consequently
made no provision for them in the system which they established. Indeed, their chief purpose
was to prevent the very thing which the responsible political party aimed to establish, viz.,
majority rule.

"Among the numerous advantages promised by a well-constructed union," wrote Madison in defense
of the Constitution, "none deserves to be more accurately developed than its tendency to break
and control the violence of faction....

"By a faction, I understand a number of citizens, whether amounting to a majority or minority
of the whole, who are united and actuated by some common impulse of passion, or of interest,
adverse to the rights of other citizens, or to the permanent and aggregate interests of the
community....

" ... But the most common and durable source of factions has been the various and unequal distribution
of property. Those who hold and those who are without property have ever formed distinct interests
in society. Those who are creditors, and those who are debtors, fall under a like discrimination.
A landed interest, a manufacturing interest, a mercantile interest, a moneyed interest, with
many lesser interests, grow up of necessity in civilized nations, and divide them into different
classes actuated by different sentiments and views....

"If a faction consists of less than a majority, relief is supplied by the republican principle,
which enables the majority to defeat its sinister views by a regular vote. It may clog the
administration, it may convulse the society; but it will be unable to execute and mask its
violence under the forms of the Constitution. When a majority is included in a faction, the
form of popular government, on the other hand, enables it to sacrifice to its ruling passion
or interest both the public good and the rights of other citizens. To secure the public good
and private rights against the danger of such a faction, and at the same time to preserve the
spirit and the form of popular government, is then the great object to which our inquiries
are directed."[156]

The very existence of political parties would endanger the system which they set up, since
in their efforts to strengthen and perpetuate their rule they would inevitably advocate extensions
of the suffrage, and thus in the end competition between parties for popular support would
be destructive of all those property qualifications for voting and holding office which had
up to that time excluded the propertyless classes from any participation in public affairs.
Hence Washington though a staunch Federalist himself saw nothing inconsistent in trying to
blend the extremes of political opinion by giving both Hamilton and Jefferson a place in his
Cabinet.

In England the party by the Reform bill of 1832 accomplished its purpose, broke through the
barriers erected against it, divested the Crown of all real authority, subordinated the House
of Lords, and established the undisputed rule of the majority in the House of Commons. This
accomplished, it was inevitable that the rivalry between political parties should result in
extensions of the suffrage until the House should come to represent, as it does in practice
to-day, the sentiment of the English people.

The framers of the American Constitution, however, succeeded in erecting barriers which democracy
has found it more difficult to overcome. For more than a century the constitutional bulwarks
which they raised against the rule of the numerical majority have obstructed and retarded the
progress of the democratic movement. The force of public sentiment soon compelled, it is true,
the adoption of the Twelfth Amendment, which in effect recognized the existence of political
parties and made provision for the party candidate for President and Vice-President. At most,
however, it merely allowed the party to name the executive without giving it any effective
control over him after he was elected, since in other respects the general plan of the Constitution
remained unchanged.

The political party, it is true, has come to play an important role under our constitutional
system; but its power and influence are of a negative rather than a positive character. It
professes, of course, to stand for the principle of majority rule, but in practice it has become
an additional and one of the most potent checks on the majority.

To understand the peculiar features of the American party system one must bear in mind the
constitutional arrangements under which it has developed. The party is simply a voluntary political
association through which the people seek to formulate the policy of the government, select
the officials who are to carry it out in the actual administration of public affairs, and hold
them to strict accountability for so doing. Under any government which makes full provision
for the political party, as in the English system of to-day, the party has not only the power
to elect but the power to remove those who are entrusted with the execution of its policies.
Having this complete control of the government, it can not escape responsibility for failure
to carry out the promises by which it secured a majority at the polls. This is the essential
difference between the English system on the one hand and the party under the American constitutional
system on the other. The one well knows that if it carries the election it will be expected
to make its promises good. The other makes certain promises with the knowledge that after the
election is over it will probably have no power to carry them out.

It is this lack of power to shape the entire policy of the government which, more than anything
else, has given form and character to the party system of the United States. To the extent
that the Constitution has deprived the majority of the power to mold the policy of the government
through voluntary political associations, it has defeated the main purpose for which the party
should exist.

The fact that under the American form of government the party can not be held accountable for
failure to carry out its ante-election pledges has had the natural and inevitable result. When,
as in England, the party which carries the election obtains complete and undisputed control
of the government, the sense of responsibility is ever present in those who direct it. If in
the event of its success it is certain to be called upon to carry out its promises, it can
not afford for the sake of obtaining votes to make promises which it has no intention of keeping.
But when the party, even though successful at the polls may lack the power to enforce its policy,
it can not be controlled by a sense of direct responsibility to the people. Promises may be
recklessly and extravagantly made merely for the sake of getting votes. The party platform
from the point of view of the party managers ceases to be a serious declaration of political
principles. It comes to be regarded as a means of winning elections rather than a statement
of what the party is obligated to accomplish.

The influence thus exerted by the Constitution upon our party system, though generally overlooked
by students and critics of American politics, has had profound and far-reaching results. That
the conduct of individuals is determined largely by the conditions under which they live is
as well established as any axiom of political science. This must be borne in mind if we would
fully understand the prevailing apathy--the seeming indifference to corruption and ring rule
which has so long characterized a large class of intelligent and well-meaning American citizens.
To ascribe the evils of our party system to their lack of interest in public questions and
their selfish disregard of civic duties, is to ignore an important phase of the problem--the
influence of the system itself. In the long run an active general interest can be maintained
only in those institutions from which the people derive some real or fancied benefit. This
benefit in the case of the political party can come about only through the control which it
enables those who compose it to exercise over the government. And where, as under the American
system, control of the party does not ensure control of the government, the chief motive for
an alert and unflagging interest in political questions is lacking. If the majority can not
make an effective use of the party system for the attainment of political ends, they can not
be expected to maintain an active interest in party affairs.

But although our constitutional arrangements are such as to deprive the people of effective
control over the party, it has offices at its disposal and sufficient power to grant or revoke
legislative favors to make control of its organization a matter of supreme importance to office
seekers and various corporate interests. Thus while the system discourages an unselfish and
public-spirited interest in party politics, it does appeal directly to those interests which
wish to use the party for purely selfish ends. Hence the ascendency of the professional politician
who, claiming to represent the masses, really owes his preferment to those who subsidize the
party machine.

The misrepresentative character of the American political party seems to be generally recognized
by those who have investigated the subject. It is only when we look for an explanation of this
fact that there is much difference of opinion. The chief difficulty encountered by those who
have given attention to this problem has been the point of view from which they have approached
it. The unwarranted assumption almost universally made that the principle of majority rule
is fundamental in our scheme of government has been a serious obstacle to any adequate investigation
of the question. Blind to the most patent defects of the Constitution, they have ignored entirely
its influence upon the development and character of the political party. Taking it for granted
that our general scheme of government was especially designed to facilitate the rule of the
majority, they have found it difficult to account for the failure of the majority to control
the party machine. Why is it that under a system which recognizes the right and makes it the
duty of the majority to control the policy of the government, that control has in practice
passed into the hands of a small minority who exercise it often in utter disregard of and even
in direct opposition to the wishes and interests of the majority? On the assumption that we
have a Constitution favorable in the highest degree to democracy, how are we to explain the
absence of popular control over the party itself? Ignoring the obstacles which the Constitution
has placed in the way of majority rule, American political writers have almost invariably sought
to lay the blame for corruption and machine methods upon the people. They would have us believe
that if such evils are more pronounced here than elsewhere it is because in this country the
masses control the government.

If the assumption thus made concerning the nature of our political system were true, we would
be forced to accept one of two conclusions: either that popular government inevitably results
in the despotism of a corrupt and selfish oligarchy, or if such is not a necessary consequence,
then at any rate the standard of citizenship in this country intellectually and morally is
not high enough to make democracy practicable. That the ignorance, selfishness and incapacity
of the people are the real source of the evils mentioned is diligently inculcated by all those
who wish to discredit the theory of popular government. No one knows better than the machine
politician and his allies in the great corporate industries of the country how little control
the people generally do or can exercise over the party under our present political arrangements.
To disclose this fact to the people generally, however, might arouse a popular movement of
such magnitude as to sweep away the constitutional checks which are the source of their power.
But as this is the very thing which they wish to prevent, the democratic character of the Constitution
must be taken for granted; for by so doing the people are made to assume the entire responsibility
for the evils which result from the practical operation of the system. And since the alleged
democratic character of our political arrangements is, it is maintained, the real source of
the evils complained of, the only effective remedy would be the restriction of the power of
the people. This might take the form of additional constitutional checks which would thereby
diminish the influence of a general election upon the policy of the government without disturbing
the present basis of the suffrage; or it might be accomplished by excluding from the suffrage
those classes deemed to be least fit to exercise that right. Either method would still further
diminish the influence of the majority, and instead of providing a remedy for the evils of
our system, would only intensify them, since it would augment the power of the minority which
is, as we have seen, the main source from which they proceed.

A government which limits the power of the majority might promote the general interests of
society more effectually than one controlled by the majority, if the checks were in the hands
of a class of superior wisdom and virtue. But in practice such a government, instead of being
better than those for whom it exists, is almost invariably worse. The complex and confusing
system of checks, with the consequent diffusion of power and absence of direct and definite
responsibility, is much better adapted to the purposes of a self-seeking, corrupt minority
than to the ends of good government. The evils of such a system which are mainly those of minority
domination must be carefully distinguished from those which result from majority control. The
critics of American political institutions have as a rule ignored the former or constitutional
aspect of our political evils, and have held majority rule accountable for much that our system
of checks has made the majority powerless to prevent. The evils of our party system, having
their roots in the lack of popular control over the party machine, are thus largely a consequence
of the checks on the power of the majority contained in the Constitution itself. In other words,
they are the outcome, not of too much, but of too little democracy.

The advocates of political reform have directed their attention mainly to the party machine.
They have assumed that control of the party organization by the people would give them control
of the government. If this view were correct, the evils which exist could be attributed only
to the ignorance, want of public spirit and lack of capacity for effective political co-operation
on the part of the people. But as a matter of fact this method of dealing with the problem
is open to the objection that it mistakes the effect for the cause. It should be clearly seen
that a system of constitutional checks, which hedges about the power of the majority on every
side, is incompatible with majority rule; and that even if the majority controlled the party
organization, it could control the policy of the government only by breaking down and sweeping
away the barriers which the Constitution has erected against it. It follows that all attempts
to establish the majority in power by merely reforming the party must be futile.

Under any political system which recognizes the right of the majority to rule, responsibility
of the government to the people is the end and aim of all that the party stands for. Party
platforms and popular elections are not ends in themselves, but only means by which the people
seek to make the government responsive to public opinion. Any arrangement of constitutional
checks, then, which defeats popular control, strikes down what is most vital and fundamental
in party government. And since the party under our system can not enforce public opinion, it
is but natural that the people should lose interest in party affairs. This furnishes an explanation
of much that is peculiar to the American party system. It accounts for that seeming indifference
and inactivity on the part of the people generally, which have allowed a small selfish minority
to seize the party machinery and use it for private ends.

The party, though claiming to represent the people, is not in reality a popular organ. Its
chief object has come to be the perpetuation of minority control, which makes possible the
protection and advancement of those powerful private interests to whose co-operation and support
the party boss is indebted for his continuance in power.[157] To accomplish these ends it is
necessary to give the party an internal organization adapted to its real, though not avowed,
purpose. The people must not be allowed to use the party as a means of giving clear and definite
expression to public opinion concerning the questions wherein the interests of the general
public are opposed to the various private interests which support the party machine. For a
strong popular sentiment well organized and unequivocally expressed could not be lightly disregarded,
even though without constitutional authority to enforce its decrees. To ensure successful minority
rule that minority must control those agencies to which the people in all free countries are
accustomed to look for an authoritative expression of the public will. The party machine can
not serve the purpose of those interests which give it financial support and at the same time
allow the people to nominate its candidates and formulate its political creed. Nevertheless,
the semblance of popular control must be preserved. The outward appearance of the party organization,
the external forms which catch the popular eye, must not reveal too clearly the secret methods
and cunningly devised arrangements by which an effective minority control is maintained over
the nomination of candidates and the framing of party platforms. The test of fitness for office
is not fidelity to the rank and file of the people who vote the party ticket, but subserviency
to those interests which dominate the party machine. The choice of candidates is largely made
in the secret councils of the ruling minority and the party conventions under color of making
a popular choice of candidates merely ratify the minority choice already made. Popular elections
under such a system do not necessarily mean that the people have any real power of selecting
public officials. They merely have the privilege of voting for one or the other of two lists
of candidates neither of which may be in any true sense representative of the people or their
interests.

But in nothing is the lack of popular control over the party more clearly seen than in the
party platforms. These are supposed to provide a medium for the expression of public opinion
upon the important questions with which the government has to deal. Under a political system
which recognized the right of the majority to rule, a party platform would be constructed with
a view to ascertaining the sense of that majority. Does the platform of the American political
party serve this purpose? Does it seek to crystallize and secure a definite expression of public
opinion at the polls, or is it so constructed as to prevent it? This question can best be answered
by an examination of our party platforms.

The Constitution, as we have seen, was a reaction against and a repudiation of the theory of
government expressed in the Declaration of Independence, although this fact was persistently
denied by those who framed it and urged its adoption. The high regard in which popular government
was held by the masses did not permit any open and avowed attempt to discredit it. The democracy
of the people, however, was a matter of faith rather than knowledge, a mere belief in the right
of the masses to rule rather than an intelligent appreciation of the political agencies and
constitutional forms through which the ends of popular government were to be attained. Unless
this is borne in mind, it is impossible to understand how the Constitution, which was regarded
at first with distrust, soon came to be reverenced by the people generally as the very embodiment
of democratic doctrines. In order to bring about this change in the attitude of the people,
the Constitution was represented by those who sought to advance it in popular esteem as the
embodiment of those principles of popular government to which the Declaration of Independence
gave expression. The diligence with which this view of the Constitution was inculcated by those
who were in a position to aid in molding public opinion soon secured for it universal acceptance.
Even the political parties which professed to stand for majority rule and which should therefore
have sought to enlighten the people have not only not exposed but actually aided in perpetuating
this delusion.

In the Democratic platform of 1840 we find the following:

"Resolved, That the liberal principles embodied by Jefferson in the Declaration of Independence,
and sanctioned in the Constitution, which makes ours a land of liberty and the asylum of the
oppressed of every nation, have ever been cardinal principles in the Democratic faith." This
was reaffirmed in the Democratic platforms of 1844, 1848, 1852, and 1856.

Finding its advocacy of the Declaration of Independence somewhat embarrassing in view of its
attitude on the slavery question, the Democratic party omitted from its platform all reference
to that document until 1884, when it ventured to reaffirm its faith in the liberal principles
which it embodied. Again, in its platform of 1900, it referred to the Declaration of Independence
as "the spirit of our government" and the Constitution as its "form and letter."

In the Republican platform of 1856 we read "That the maintenance of the principles promulgated
in the Declaration of Independence and embodied in the Federal Constitution is essential to
the preservation of our republican institutions." The authority of the Declaration of Independence
was recognized by the Republican party in its platform of 1868, and again in its platform of
1876.[158]

Both parties have during recent years expressed their disapproval of monopolies and trusts,
though neither when in power has shown any disposition to enact radical anti-monopoly legislation.

The Democratic party which favored "honest money" in 1880 and 1884 and demanded the repeal
of the Sherman Act in 1892 stood for free coinage of silver at 16 to 1 in 1896 and 1900. The
Republican party which advocated international bimetallism in 1884, condemned the Democratic
party in 1888 for trying to demonetize silver and endorsed bimetallism in 1892, favored "sound
money" and international bimetallism in 1896 and renewed its "allegiance to the principle of
the gold standard" in 1900. The Democratic party in its platform of 1896 expressed its disapproval
of the Income Tax decision of the United States Supreme Court and in both 1896 and 1900 condemned
"government by injunction." With these exceptions neither party has ever expressed its disapproval
of any exercise of authority by the Federal judiciary.

Neither of the great parties has ever taken a stand in favor of an income tax, government ownership
of the railroads or the telegraph, or, if we except the declaration in favor of direct election
of United States senators in the Democratic platforms of 1900 and 1904, advocated any important
change in our system of government.

Let us now inquire how far the results of a general election can be regarded as an expression
of public opinion upon the questions raised in the party platforms. Does a popular majority
for a party mean that the majority approve of the policies for which that party professes to
stand? It is generally assumed by the unthinking that this is the case. But such a conclusion
by no means follows. If there were but one question at issue between the parties and every
vote was for principle, not for particular candidates, the policy of the successful party would
have the approval of the majority. But when the party defines its position on a number of issues
this is no longer true. Take, for instance, the Democratic and Republican platforms of 1900,
the former containing twenty-five and the latter twenty-nine separate articles in its party
creed. Does a majority vote for a party indicate that the majority approve of the entire platform
of that party? No thoughtful person would maintain for a moment that all who support a party
approve of its entire platform. In the case of the Republican party in 1900, one large class
of its supporters who believed the money question to be paramount and who feared the consequences
of free coinage of silver voted the Republican ticket, though opposed to the attitude of that
party on expansion and also on protection. The ardent protectionist may have given the party
his support on the strength of its tariff plank alone. He may even have been opposed to the
party's position on the silver question and on expansion. Another class who may have disapproved
of both gold monometallism and protection, but who regarded expansion as the all-important
question, supported the Republican party because of its attitude in this matter. It is certain
that some who voted the Republican ticket did not approve its expansion policy; some did not
approve of its extreme protectionist policy; and some did not approve of its attitude on the
money question. Every man who voted the Republican ticket is assumed to have endorsed the entire
policy of the party, though, as a matter of fact, the party may have secured his vote by reason
of its position on the one question which he deemed to be of supreme importance. It is, to
say the least, extremely probable that every intelligent man who supported the party disapproved
of its attitude on one or more questions. Each plank in the platform was put there for the
purpose of catching votes. Some gave their vote for one reason, some for another and some for
still other reasons. And when, as in our present day party platforms, many separate and distinct
bids are made for votes, it is not only possible but highly probable that no single plank in
that party's creed was approved by all who voted the party ticket. If the various issues could
be segregated and each voted upon separately, it is conceivable that not one of them would
command a majority of the entire vote; and yet, by lumping them all together and skilfully
pushing to the front and emphasizing each article of its creed before the class or in the region
where it would find most support, the party may secure a popular majority for its platform
as a whole. Both parties in their platforms of 1900 stood for the admission as states of Arizona,
New Mexico, and Oklahoma; both declared in favor of legislation against monopolies and trusts;
both favored liberal pensions, the construction of an Isthmian canal, irrigation of arid lands,
reduction of war taxes and protection of American workmen against cheap foreign labor. Yet
it does not by any means follow that a majority of the people voting really endorsed even these
planks which were common to both platforms.

Moreover the party does not always state its position in a clear and unequivocal manner. The
Democratic platform while opposing Republican expansion did so with some important reservation.
While denouncing the recent expansion policy of the Republican party it made a bid for the
support of those who believed in a moderate and conservative expansion policy. The same is
true of its attitude on protection. It did not condemn the principle of protection, but merely
the abuse of the system through which monopolies and trusts had been fostered. The vague and
ambiguous manner in which the party defines its attitude, together with the highly composite
character of its platform, largely defeats the end for which it should be framed. As a means
of arriving at a definite and authoritative expression of public opinion concerning the political
questions of the day it is far from satisfactory. It is conceivable that a party may under
this system carry an election and yet not a single principle for which it professes to stand
would, if separately submitted, command the approval of a majority of the voters.

The threefold purpose for which the party exists--(1) popular choice of candidates, (2) a clear
and definite expression of public opinion concerning the questions with which the government
must deal, and (3) the responsibility of the government to the popular majority are all largely
defeated under the American system. The last named end of the party is defeated by the Constitution
itself, and this, as hereinbefore shown, has operated to defeat the others as well.

We thus see that true party government is impossible under a constitutional system which has
as its chief end the limitation of the power of the majority. Where the party which has carried
the election is powerless to enforce its policy, as is generally the case in this country,
there can be no responsible party government. The only branch of our governmental system which
responds readily to changes in public opinion is the House of Representatives. But this is
and was designed to be a subordinate body, having a voice in shaping only a part of the policy
of the government, and even in this limited field being unable to act except with the concurrence
of the President, Senate and Supreme Court. A change in public sentiment is not likely under
these circumstances to be followed by a corresponding change in the policy of the state. Even
when such change in sentiment is insistent and long-continued, it may be unable to overcome
the resistance of the more conservative influences in the Constitution. The most superficial
examination of our political history is sufficient to show that the practical working of our
Constitution has in large measure defeated the end of party government. Calhoun's contention
that the party had succeeded in breaking down the elaborate system of constitutional checks
on the numerical majority is not borne out by the facts.

Eleven general elections since the adoption of the Constitution have resulted in a House of
Representatives which had no political support in any other branch of the government. During
eighty-four years of our history under the Constitution the party in the majority in the House
has not had a majority in all the other branches of the general government, and consequently
has not had the power to enforce its policy. From 1874 to 1896--a period of twenty-two years--there
were but two years (the 51st Congress) during which the same party had a majority in all branches
of the government. But even during this brief period it failed to control the treaty-making
power since it lacked the two-thirds majority in the Senate which the Constitution requires.
In fact, there has been no time since 1874 when any party had sufficient majority in the Senate
to give it an active control over the treaty-making power.

The more important and fundamental changes in public policy which involve an exercise of the
amending power are still more securely placed beyond the reach of party control. Not only the
power to ratify amendments, but even the power to propose them, is effectually withheld from
the party, since it can scarcely ever command the required two-thirds majority in both houses
of Congress or a majority in both branches of the legislature in two-thirds of the states.

Under our constitutional system a political party may have a nominal majority in all branches
of the government and yet lack the power to enforce its policy. That branch of the government
over which the party has most control through frequent elections--viz., the House of Representatives--is
the one which has least authority, while those which have most influence in shaping the policy
of the government are less directly subject to the penalties of party disapproval, as in the
case of the President and Senate, or entirely exempt from any effective party control as in
the case of the Supreme Court. The division of authority under our Constitution makes it possible
for either house of Congress to give the appearance of support to a measure which public opinion
demands and at the same time really accomplish its defeat by simply not providing the means
essential to its enforcement. The opportunity thus afforded for the exercise of a covert but
effective veto on important legislation is a fruitful source of corruption. The extreme diffusion
of power and responsibility is such as to make any effective party control and responsibility
impossible. This would be the case even if the party were truly representative of public opinion.
But when we consider that the party is organized on a plan which in some measure at least defeats
both the popular choice of candidates and the expression of public opinion in party platforms,
it is readily seen that the slight degree of party control permitted under our system is in
no true sense a popular control.

CHAPTER IX

CHANGES IN THE STATE CONSTITUTIONS AFTER 1787

The effects of the conservative reaction were not confined to the general government. The movement
to limit the power of the popular majority was felt in the domain of state as well as national
politics. Even before the Constitutional Convention assembled the political reaction was modifying
some of the state constitutions. This is seen especially in the tendency to enlarge the powers
of the judiciary which was the only branch of the state government in which life tenure survived.
This tendency received powerful encouragement and support in the adoption of the Federal Constitution
which secured to the judiciary of the general government an absolute veto on both federal and
state legislation. For as the state courts were not slow in following the precedent set by
the Federal courts, what had been before the adoption of the Constitution a mere tendency soon
became the practice in all the states. This in reality accomplished a revolution in the actual
working of the state governments without any corresponding change in their outward form. It
effected a redistribution of political powers which greatly diminished the influence of the
popularly elected and more responsible branches of the state government and gave a controlling
influence to that branch over which the people had least control.

Not only was the state judiciary allowed to assume the veto power, but their independence of
public opinion was more effectually safeguarded by depriving a mere majority of the legislature
of the power to remove them. The provision of the Federal Constitution requiring a two-thirds
majority in the legislative body for removal by impeachment or otherwise was quite generally
copied. Without some such safeguard the party in control of the legislature could prevent the
exercise of the judicial veto by removing from office any judges who dared to oppose its policy.

New York and South Carolina were the only states adopting constitutions during the Revolutionary
period, which included provisions limiting the power of the majority to impeach public officials.
The New York constitution of 1777 required a two-thirds majority in the lower house, and the
South Carolina constitution of 1778 a two-thirds majority in both houses. Pennsylvania copied
the impeachment provisions of the Federal Constitution in her constitution of 1790; Delaware
went even farther, and in her constitution of 1792, required a two-thirds majority in both
houses; Georgia followed the example of the Federal Constitution in 1798; Virginia, in 1830;
North Carolina, in 1835; Vermont, in 1836; New Jersey, in 1844; and Maryland, in 1851.

With the progress of this movement to restore the system of checks in the state constitutions
the governor regained his independence of the legislature and also many of the rights and prerogatives
of which the Revolution had deprived him. He was made coordinate with the legislature, set
over against it and generally clothed with the qualified veto power, which made him for all
practical purposes the third house of that body. Georgia increased the governor's term of office
to two years and gave him the qualified veto power in 1798. Pennsylvania made his term of office
three years and gave him the veto power in 1790. New Hampshire conferred the veto power on
him in 1792 and New York in 1821.

This tendency to make the public official less directly dependent upon the people or their
immediate representatives is clearly seen in other important changes made in the state constitutions
during this period. Popular control over the legislature was diminished by lengthening the
terms of the members of both houses and by providing that the upper house should be elected
for a longer term than the lower. Georgia established an upper house in 1789 and made the term
of office of its members three years. In 1790 Pennsylvania also added a senate whose members
were to be elected for four years, and South Carolina increased the term of its senators from
one to four years. Delaware extended the term from one to two years for members of the lower
house and from three to four years for members of the upper house and made the legislative
sessions biennial instead of annual in 1831. North Carolina increased the term of members of
both houses from one to two years and adopted biennial sessions in 1835. Maryland in 1837 extended
the term of senators from five to six years, and in 1846 established biennial sessions of the
legislature. The responsibility of the legislature was still further diminished by the gradual
adoption of the plan of partial renewal of the senate, which was incorporated in the Revolutionary
constitutions of Delaware, New York and Virginia and later copied in the Federal Constitution.
This ensured the conservative and steadying influence exerted by a body of hold-over members
in the upper house.

With the exception of five states in which the members of one branch of the legislature were
elected for terms varying from two to five years, the Revolutionary state constitutions provided
for the annual election of the entire legislature. This plan made both houses conform to the
latest expression of public opinion by the majority of the qualified voters at the polls. And
since neither the executive nor the courts possessed the veto power, the system ensured prompt
compliance on the part of the law-making body with the demands of the people as expressed in
the results of the legislative election.

The influence of public opinion on the state governments was greatly weakened by the constitutional
changes above mentioned. The lower branch of the legislature, inasmuch as all its members were
simultaneously elected, might be regarded as representative of recent, if not present, public
opinion, though effective popular control of that body was made more difficult by lengthening
the term of office, since this diminished the frequency with which the voters could express
in an authoritative manner their disapproval of the official record of its members. Under the
plan adopted present public opinion as formulated in the results of the last election was not
recognized as entitled to control the state senate.

These changes in the state constitutions by which the executive and judicial branches of the
government acquired the veto power amounted in practice to the creation of a four-chambered
legislature. By thus increasing the number of bodies which it was necessary for the people
to control in order to secure the legislation which they desired, their power to influence
the policy of the state government was thereby diminished. And when we reflect that not only
was legislative authority more widely distributed, but each branch of the state government
exercising it was also made less directly dependent on the qualified voters, we can see that
these constitutional provisions were in the nature of checks on the numerical majority.

A consideration of the changes made in the method of amending the state constitutions leads
to the same conclusion. During the Revolutionary period, as we have seen, the tendency was
strongly toward making the fundamental law the expression of the will of the numerical majority.
Difficulties in the way of change were reduced to a minimum. But under the influence of the
political reaction which followed, and which produced the Constitution of the United States,
the state governments were so organized as to make it more difficult for the majority to exercise
the amending power. Georgia in 1789 changed the method of amending the state constitution by
requiring a two-thirds majority in a constitutional convention, and made another change in
1798 by which a two-thirds majority in each house of the legislature and a three-fourths majority
in each house of the succeeding legislature was required for the adoption of an amendment to
the constitution. South Carolina in 1790 adopted a provision guarding against mere majority
amendment by making the approval of a two-thirds majority in both branches of two successive
legislatures necessary for any changes in the constitution. Connecticut in 1818 restricted
the power of amending by requiring a majority in the house of representatives, a two-thirds
majority in both houses of the next legislature, and final approval by a majority of the electors.
New York in 1821 adopted a plan which required that an amendment should receive a majority
in each branch of the legislature, a two-thirds majority in each branch of the succeeding legislature,
and be approved by a majority of the voters. North Carolina in 1835 made a three-fifths majority
in each house of the legislature and a two-thirds majority of each house of the following legislature
necessary for changes in the constitution.

The judicial veto served the purpose of preventing majority amendment under the guise of ordinary
legislation, while a safeguard against constitutional changes favored by a mere majority was
thus provided in the extraordinary majority required in both houses of the legislature to propose
or adopt amendments. This, as has been shown in the case of the Federal Constitution, is a
formidable check on the majority. In view of this restriction upon the proposing of amendments
the provision for ratification by a popular majority, which owing to the progress of the later
democratic movement has now been generally adopted, is no real concession to the principle
of majority rule.

Assuming that a two-thirds majority in the legislature is required to propose an amendment,
and that the principle of representation is so applied that each party is represented in the
legislature in proportion to its popular vote, it would scarcely ever be possible for any party
to propose an amendment to the state constitution, since it can not be expected under any ordinary
conditions to control two-thirds of the popular vote. But inasmuch as the successful party
often secures under our system much more than its proportional share of representation in the
legislature, it is by no means unusual for a party to have a two-thirds majority in both houses
of a state legislature. This would appear to give the numerical majority under such conditions
the power to propose and adopt amendments. Such would be the case if the party were really
responsible to those who supported it at the polls. But this would assume the existence of
a purely state party, organized with reference to state issues only, and carrying the election
as the advocate of a definite state policy. Moreover, it would presuppose all those means,
political and constitutional, by which the majority in the legislature would be accountable
to the popular majority in the state. This is rendered impossible, however, as has been shown,
by our system of government.

The above-mentioned changes in the constitutions of the older states may be attributed in large
measure to the reaction against democracy which brought about the adoption of the Federal Constitution.
They may be regarded as an expression of that distrust and fear of democracy which filled the
minds of those who framed and set up our Federal government. It is not contended, however,
that they are now so regarded by the masses of the people. The work of deifying the Federal
Constitution was soon accomplished. And when the people had come to venerate it as the most
perfect embodiment of the doctrine of popular sovereignty that the intelligence of man could
devise, it was but natural that they should acquiesce in the proposal to make the state governments
conform more closely to the general plan of that instrument. In view of the widespread sentiment
which amounted to a blind and unthinking worship of the Constitution, it is not surprising
that the political institutions of the general government should have been largely copied by
the states. The only surprising thing in this connection is the fact that they did not follow
the Federal model more closely, since every feature of it was the object of the most extravagant
eulogy. Here we see, however, an inconsistency between profession and practice. The people
who tolerated no criticism of the Federal Constitution showed nevertheless a distrust of some
of its more conservative features. Much as the indirect election of President and United States
senators was favored by the framers of our Federal Constitution, there has been no tendency
to apply that principle in the selection of the corresponding state officials.

In all the states framing new constitutions during the Revolutionary period, except Massachusetts,
New Hampshire, and New York, the governor was elected by the legislature. Pennsylvania abandoned
indirect election and adopted election by the qualified voters in 1790; Delaware, in 1792;
Georgia, in 1824; North Carolina, in 1835; Maryland, in 1837; New Jersey, in 1844; Virginia,
in 1850; and South Carolina, in 1865. South Carolina and Maryland are the only states which
have ever had indirect election of the upper house. Both adopted it in 1776, the constitution
of South Carolina providing that the members of the lower house should elect the members of
the upper house, and the constitution of Maryland requiring that members of the upper house
should be chosen by an electoral college. This was abandoned for direct election in South Carolina
in 1778 and in Maryland in 1837.

The conservative reaction was soon followed by a new movement toward democracy. This no doubt
largely explains the failure of the people to reproduce in their state constitutions all those
features which they professed to admire in the Federal Constitution. Not only did they not
copy all the new features of that document, but they even discarded some of the then existing
provisions of the state constitutions which had been copied in the Federal Constitution. The
principle of indirect election which was everywhere recognized in the choice of the state judiciary
during the Revolutionary period was gradually abandoned for the more democratic method of direct
popular choice which has now become the rule. The life tenure of judges which formerly existed
in most of the states has almost entirely disappeared. In all but four states the judges are
now chosen for terms varying from two to twenty-one years--the average length of the term being
eight or ten years. The combination of direct popular choice with a fixed term of office has
had the effect of making the state judiciary much more amenable to public opinion than the
corresponding branch of the Federal government. By reason of the relatively long term for which
the judges of the state supreme court are elected, however, and the plan of gradual renewal
which prevents present public opinion from ever gaining the ascendency in that body, it is
still the least responsible and most conservative branch of the state government.

We see, then, two motives exerting an influence in the remolding of the state constitutions,
one being the desire to copy the Federal Constitution and the other the belief that the state
government should reflect the will of the people. That the attainment of one of these ends
would inevitably defeat the other was not generally recognized. The conviction which had become
thoroughly rooted in the popular mind that the system of checks and balances was the highest
expression of democratic organization ensured the embodiment of the general features of that
system in the constitutions of the various states. The constitutional changes having this end
in view largely destroyed the responsibility of the state governments to the people and thus
prevented the very thing they were designed to accomplish. But however much this system was
in reality opposed to the principle of direct popular control, it was adopted by the people
with the idea of making the government more readily reflect their will. They were not conscious
of any inconsistency in holding tenaciously to the doctrine of checks and balances and at the
same time seeking to give the people more control over the state governments. The latter purpose
is clearly seen in the constitutional changes relating to the tenure and manner of election
of the judiciary and in the adoption of universal suffrage. Summing up the effects of these
changes in the state constitutions, we may say that the suffrage was placed upon a democratic
basis, the state judiciary was organized on a less irresponsible plan and the appearance of
political responsibility secured by applying the principle of direct election to every branch
of the state government. The longer term of office established for the legislative and executive
branches of the state government, however, together with the increase in the authority of the
judiciary and the adoption of the system of checks and balances has upon the whole had the
effect of making the state government less responsive to the electorate.

As seen in preceding chapters, the framers of the Federal Constitution made use of the scheme
of checks and balances for the purpose of limiting the power of the people. There is little
evidence that they favored diffusion of authority except in so far as that authority rested
upon a popular basis. Hence they carried the plan much farther in curtailing the power of the
House of Representatives than a logical application of the doctrine would have justified, while
at the same time giving more authority and power of independent action to the other branches
of the general government than was consistent with their avowed, if not real, purpose.

They gave to the executive and judicial branches of the general government power to control
the administration of Federal laws. The enforcement of all laws and regulations of the general
government, in so far as the President and Senate might desire to enforce them, was guaranteed
through the power to appoint and remove those who were entrusted with their execution, while
the right of appeal from a state to the Federal courts precluded the possibility of enforcing
a state law deemed to exceed the proper limits of state authority.

In the state governments on the other hand we find a high degree of administrative decentralization.
The governor, unlike the President, was not given any adequate power to control those entrusted
with the execution of state laws. A multitude of directly elected local officials are the agents
of the state for this purpose. And since they reflect the sentiment of the various local interests
to which they owe their election, it may and often does happen that a law to which those interests
are opposed is rendered practically inoperative through the efforts of those local officials
who are sworn to enforce it. The practical working of this system often gives to a local community
an administrative veto on such general laws of the state as may be opposed to local sentiment.
By this means the general executive authority of the state is weakened and its responsibility
correspondingly diminished.

In still another respect the policy of dividing authority and parcelling it out between separate
and distinct organs of government has been carried much farther in the state than in the Federal
Constitution. Unlike the Federal government in which executive power is centralized in the
President, the state constitutions have created a number of separate officials, boards and
commissions, some directly elected and some appointed, independent of each other and irresponsible
except in so far as a fixed term of office implies responsibility. This means that instead
of one executive the state has many. Only one of them--the governor--has, it is true, a veto
on the enactment of laws; but this, as we have seen, is really a legislative and not an executive
power. Each of these has what may be termed an administrative veto; that is, the power to negative
the laws which they are expected to administer by simply not enforcing them. The impossibility
of securing an honest and faithful administration of the laws where the responsibility for
their enforcement is divided between a number of separate and practically independent officials,
is clearly shown in the experience of the various states. The evils of this system are illustrated
in the state laws enacted for the purpose of controlling the railway business. Provision is
usually made for their enforcement through a railway commission either directly elected or
appointed by the governor. That direct election by the people for a fixed term, thereby securing
independence during that term, fails to guarantee the enforcement of such laws is strikingly
shown in the experience of California, where this body has been continually under the domination
of the railway interests.[159]

Under a system which thus minutely subdivides and distributes the administrative function,
any effective control over the execution of state laws is made impossible. The governor, who
is nominally the head of the executive agencies of the state, is not in reality responsible,
since he has no adequate power to compel the enforcement of laws directly entrusted to other
independent state officials. Any interest or combination of interests that may wish to prevent
the enforcement of certain laws may be able to accomplish their end by merely controlling the
one official or board whose duty it is to enforce the law in question. Their task would be
a much more difficult one, if it were necessary to control for that purpose the entire executive
arm of the state. The opportunity for the corrupt use of money and influence is thus vastly
increased, since the people, though they might watch and judge fairly well the conduct of one
state executive, can not exercise any effective censorship over a large number of such officials.

This irresponsibility which arises out of a wide diffusion of power is not confined to the
executive branch of the state government. The legislature in the course of our political development
has taken on the same elaborate committee organization which characterizes, as we have seen,
our Federal Congress. The same sinister influences working through similar agencies oppose
needed legislation. But although the good bills are frequently killed or mutilated in the secrecy
of the committee room, the skilful use of money or other corrupt influence often secures the
enactment of laws opposed to the interests of the people. Moreover, the practice known as log-rolling
by which the representatives of various local interests combine and force through measures
which secure to each of certain localities some advantage at the expense of the state at large
are so common as to excite no surprise.

The relation existing between the executive and legislative branches under our system is another
source of irresponsibility, since it does not follow simply because a law has been placed upon
the statute books of a state that it can be enforced. An act may be passed in response to a
strong public sentiment, it may be constitutional and the executive may be willing and may
even desire to enforce it, and yet be unable to do so. The legislature may, and frequently
does, enact laws under the pressure of public opinion while at the same time quietly exercising
what is, in effect, a veto on their execution. In the case of much important legislation it
can accomplish this by merely not appropriating the funds which are required for their enforcement.
The laws against adulteration are a good illustration. An official known perhaps as a dairy
and food commissioner may be provided for, whose duty it is to enforce these laws. The nature
of the work entrusted to him requires that he should have a corps of assistants, inspectors
who are to keep a watchful eye on the goods likely to be adulterated and collect samples of
such goods from the various places in the state where they are exposed for sale, and chemists
who are to analyze the samples thus procured and determine whether manufacturers and dealers
are complying with the law. Unless an adequate sum is appropriated for this purpose, and for
prosecuting those who are violating the law, such laws can not be enforced.

In our state governments the subdivision of authority has been carried so far that no effective
control over the enactment or enforcement of state laws is possible. Under the influence of
the doctrine of checks and balances the policy of widely distributing political authority has
inured to the benefit of those private interests which are ever seeking to control the government
for their own ends, since it has supplied the conditions under which the people find it difficult
to fix the blame for official misconduct. Indeed it may be said that wherever power should
be concentrated to ensure responsibility, it has been almost invariably distributed.

CHAPTER X

MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENT

Our municipal government, like the rest of our political system, was originally an inheritance
from England. The governing power in colonial times was a single body, the common council,
such as exists in England to-day, composed of mayor, recorder, aldermen, and councilmen. As
a rule the councilmen were elected annually by the qualified voters, while the mayor was appointed
by the colonial governor. The council had authority to enact local regulations not in conflict
with English or colonial legislation. The mayor had no veto and usually no appointing power.

The Revolution did not modify the general scheme of municipal government in any important respect.
The mayor was still, as a rule, appointed by the governor, who now owed his office directly
or indirectly to the qualified voters of the state. The power to grant municipal charters,
which before the Revolution was exercised by the provincial governor, was now lodged in the
state legislature.

The important changes in municipal government were made after, and may be regarded as an effect
of the adoption of the Federal Constitution. As the centralization of authority in the hands
of the common council could not be reconciled with the new doctrine of checks and balances,
municipal government was reorganized on the plan of distributed powers. This effort to readjust
the political organization of the city and make it conform to the general scheme of the Federal
government is seen in the municipal charters granted after the adoption of the Constitution.
The tendency toward a bicameral council, the extension of the term for which members of the
council were elected and the veto power of the mayor may be attributed to the influence of
the Constitution rather than to any intelligent and carefully planned effort to improve the
machinery of municipal government.

As in the case of the state governments, the development of the system was influenced by the
growing belief in democracy. Property qualifications for the suffrage disappeared, and the
mayor became a directly elected local official. The changes made in municipal government, however,
as a concession to the newer democratic thought, did not ensure any very large measure of popular
control. Municipal government in its practical working remained essentially undemocratic.

It would be perfectly reasonable to expect that popular government would reach its highest
development in the cities. Here modern democracy was born; here we find the physical and social
conditions which facilitate interchange of thought and concerted action on the part of the
people. Moreover, the government of the city is more directly and immediately related to the
citizens than is the government of state or nation. It touches them at more points, makes more
demands upon them and is more vitally related to their everyday life and needs than either
state or national government. For these reasons the most conspicuous successes of democracy
should be the government of present-day cities. Under a truly democratic system this would
doubtless be the case. But in this country the most glaring abuses and most conspicuous failures
of government occur in the cities. The enemies of popular government have used this fact for
the purpose of discrediting the theory of democracy. They would have us believe that this is
the natural result of a system which places political authority in the hands of the masses--that
it is the fruit of an extreme democracy. This conclusion rests upon the assumption that municipal
government in this country is democratic--an assumption which will not bear investigation.
American cities are far from being examples of extreme democracy. In some important respects
they are less democratic than the government of either state or nation. A careful analysis
of the situation shows clearly that the municipal evils so frequently attributed to an excess
of democracy are really due to the system of checks by which all effective power to regulate
municipal matters is withheld from the majority. In this country popular control is reduced
to a minimum in the cities, while in Great Britain and the countries of western Europe we find
in municipal government the nearest approach to democracy. This is the true explanation of
the fact that municipal government is our greatest failure and their most conspicuous success.

Under any consistent application of the theory of democracy a city would be entitled to the
fullest measure of local self-government. It ought to be given an absolutely free hand to initiate
and carry out any policies of purely local concern. This right, however, the American city
does not possess. Local self-government is recognized neither in theory nor in practice under
our political scheme. The true local unit is the city, and this, according to our legal and
constitutional theory, is merely the creature of the state legislature. The latter called it
into being, determines what powers it may exercise, and may strip it of them at pleasure. According
to the prevailing practice of our state legislatures and the almost uniform decisions of our
courts the exercise of local self-government by our cities is to be regarded as a mere privilege
and not a right.

The municipal charter was originally a grant of certain privileges of local government in return
for money payments or other services rendered to the king. It was a mere concession of privileges
based upon expediency, and not a recognition on the part of the Crown of local self-government
as an admitted right. As an express and formal statement of the measure of local government
which the king would bind himself to respect, it tended to limit his power of interference
in matters covered by such charter, since privileges solemnly granted could not with safety
be lightly and arbitrarily disregarded. Municipal charters thus have the same origin as the
constitution of the state itself, in that they are the outcome of an effort to place a check
upon an irresponsible central authority.

The legislature of the American commonwealth in succeeding to the power of the king over municipal
charters manifested at first an inclination to concede to the city the right to a measure of
local self-government. Thus "the city of New York received from the English kings during the
colonial period a charter which, on the Declaration of the Independence of the colony of New
York, and the establishment of the new state of New York, was confirmed by the first Constitution
of the state. For a considerable period after the adoption of this constitution, changes in
that charter were made upon the initiation of the people of the city, which initiation took
place through the medium of charter conventions whose members were elected by the people of
the city, and no statute which was passed by the legislature of the state relative to the affairs
of the city of New York took effect within the city until it had been approved by the city."[160]

But as Professor Goodnow observes, American cities "have very largely lost their original powers
of local self-government."[161] The original conception of the city charter as a contract which
established certain rights of local self-government which the legislature was bound to respect,
merely recognized municipal corporations as entitled to the same exemption from unreasonable
legislative interference, as the courts have since the Dartmouth College decision enforced
in favor of private corporations. If this view had prevailed cities could not have been deprived
arbitrarily of rights once recognized by the legislature, but they could have enforced the
recognition of no rights not thus granted. The recognition of this doctrine would have prevented
many of the abuses that have characterized the relation between state and municipal government
in this country, but it would have guaranteed no rights which the legislature had not seen
fit to confer. Any liberal interpretation of the theory of democracy must of necessity go farther
than this, and make municipal self-government a fundamental right which the central authority
of the state can, not only neither abridge nor destroy, but can not even withhold, since it
is a right having its source not in a legislative grant, but in the underlying principles of
popular government.

The failure to recognize the right of local self-government as fundamental in any scheme of
democracy was unfortunate. Some of the worst evils of municipal government would have been
avoided, however, if authority once granted to municipalities had been treated by the courts
as a limitation of the power of the legislature to interfere in purely local matters. The refusal
of the state government to recognize an appropriate sphere of municipal activity which it would
have no right to invade, has been the main cause of corruption and inefficiency in municipal
government.

The policy of state interference in municipal affairs was the inevitable outgrowth of the doctrine
that cities had no powers except such as had been expressly given, or were necessarily implied
in their charters. This lack of the power of initiative made it necessary for cities, as they
increased in size and complexity, to make constant appeals to the legislature for permission
to supply their wants. Every new problem which the city had to deal with, every new function
which it had to perform, was a ground for state interference. This necessity of invoking the
aid of the state legislature, constantly felt in every rapidly growing city, tended to develop
a feeling of dependence upon legislative intervention as an indispensable factor in the solution
of local problems. Thus the refusal of the state government to recognize the right of municipal
initiative compelled the cities to welcome state interference as the only means of dealing
with the new problems with which they were being continually confronted.

Another reason for the extension of state authority at the expense of the municipality is to
be found in the twofold character of city government. Besides being a local government the
city is also for certain purposes the administrative agent of the state, and as such is properly
subject to state supervision. But, in the absence of any clear distinction between state and
local interests, it was an easy matter for protection of the former to serve as a pretext for
undue interference with the latter.

The city was thus placed at the mercy of the state government, since the legislature could
make the needs of the municipality or the protection of the general interests of the state
a pretext for any interference calculated to further the private or partisan ends of those
who controlled the legislative machine. As cities increased in importance it was found that
this unlimited power over them could be made a valuable asset of the party machine in control
of the state legislature. The city offered a rich and tempting field for exploitation. It had
offices, a large revenue, spent vast sums in public improvements, let valuable contracts of
various kinds and had certain needs, as for water, light, rapid transit, etc., which could
be made the pretext for granting franchises and other privileges on such terms as would ensure
large profits to the grantees at the expense of the general public. That the political machine
in control of the state government should have yielded to the temptation to make a selfish
use of its powers in this direction, is only what might have been expected.

"The legislature has often claimed also the right to appoint municipal officers and to fix
and change the details of municipal organization, has legislated municipal officers out of
office, and established new offices. In certain cases it has even provided that certain specific
city streets shall be paved, has imposed burdens upon cities for the purpose of constructing
sewers or bringing in water; has regulated the methods of transportation to be adopted within
the limits of cities; in a word, has attended to a great number of matters which are purely
local in character; matters which do not affect the people of the state as a whole, and in
regard to which there is little excuse for special legislative action."[162]

The extent to which state regulation of local matters has been carried in New York is indicated
by the fact that in the year 1886 "280 of the 681 acts passed by the legislature ... interfered
directly with the affairs of some particular county, city, village, or town, specifically and
expressly named....

"The Philadelphia City Hall Building affords a good example of how far this lack of local responsibility
may sometimes carry the legislature in the exercise of local powers, and in the imposition
of financial burdens on cities. 'In 1870 the legislature decided that the city should have
new buildings. The act [which was passed to accomplish this result] selected certain citizens
by name, whom it appointed commissioners for the erection of the buildings. It made this body
perpetual by authorizing it to fill vacancies.... This commission was imposed by the legislature
upon the city, and given absolute control to create debts for the purpose named, and to require
the levy of taxes for their payment.

"'The public buildings at Broad and Market streets were,' in the words of Judge Paxson, 'projected
upon a scale of magnificence better suited for the capitol of an empire than the municipal
buildings of a debt-burdened city.' Yet this act was declared constitutional, the city was
compelled to supply the necessary funds, and 'for nearly twenty years all the money that could
be spared from immediate and pressing needs' was 'compulsorily expended upon an enormous pile
which surpasses the town halls and cathedrals of the Middle Ages in extent if not in grandeur.'"[163]

The legislature is strongly tempted to abuse its power when the party machine in control of
the state does not have the political support of the local authorities. One of the most notorious
examples of such interference in recent years was the so-called "ripper" legislation enacted
in Pennsylvania in 1901, by which the mayors of Pittsburg and Allegheny were removed from office
and the governor given the power to appoint and remove their successors until the regular municipal
election in the year 1903. The motive for this legislation was the desire to crush local opposition
to the state machine by putting the control of municipal offices in the hands of a governor
friendly to the political boss of the state. In order to provide an opportunity for the mayor
appointed by the governor to use his office in building up and perpetuating a local machine
that would support the clique in control of the state government, the appointee of the governor
was declared eligible for re-election, although his locally elected successors were made ineligible.
A more flagrant abuse of legislative authority could hardly be imagined; yet this act was declared
constitutional by the supreme court of the state.

Many such instances of partisan interference may be found in the recent legislation of some
of the larger and more populous states.

The best example of the misgovernment of cities by the legislature for private or partisan
ends is seen in the franchise legislation by which privileges of great value have been secured
by street railway and other corporations without any compensation to the cities concerned.
The power which the legislature can exercise in the interest of private corporations monopolizing
for their own profit the very necessities of life in the modern city--water, light, transportation,
communication, etc.--has been one of the most serious evils resulting from state domination
of municipal affairs. It exposed the legislature to the temptation which individuals and corporations
seeking valuable concessions readily took advantage of for their own gain. It thus brought
into active operation those forces which have been the chief factor in corrupting both state
and municipal government.

As soon as it came to be generally recognized that state control of local affairs not only
did not prevent, but was, in fact, the chief source of the misrule of American cities, an effort
was made to provide a remedy by the adoption of constitutional provisions regulating the power
of the legislature to interfere in municipal affairs. These limitations relate to those matters
wherein the evils of state interference have been most pronounced. Thus in some states the
legislature is not allowed to grant the use of streets to railways or other private companies
without the consent of the municipal authorities; to create special commissions and bestow
upon them municipal functions; or to incorporate cities or regulate them by special laws.

It was not the purpose of these constitutional provisions to grant to municipalities any immunity
from state control, but merely to forbid certain modes of exercising legislative supervision
which, as experience had shown, were liable to serious abuses. The prohibition of special legislation,
generally incorporated in recent state constitutions, has, however, largely failed to accomplish
its purpose, owing to the fact that the courts have permitted the legislature to establish
so many classes of cities that it has been able to pass special acts under the guise of general
laws.

The state of Ohio furnishes a good example of the practical nullification of a constitutional
provision by the legislature through the abuse of its power of classification. The constitution
of 1851 prohibited the legislature from passing any special act conferring corporate powers
and provided for the organization of cities by general laws. The legislature, however, adopted
a method of classifying cities which defeated the object of this provision. In 1901 each of
the eleven principal cities in the state was in a separate class. Consequently all laws enacted
for each of these classes were in reality special acts, and as such were clearly an evasion
of the constitutional prohibition of special legislation. Nevertheless, this method of classification
had been repeatedly upheld by the courts. Its advantages to the party in control of the state
government were obvious, since it gave the legislature a free hand in interfering in local
affairs for partisan ends. It permitted the state machine to make concessions to a city which
gave it political support and at the same time extend state control over those cities in which
it encountered opposition. This was the situation down to 1902, when the supreme court rendered
two decisions which overthrew the system of classification in vogue and invalidated the charter
of every city in the state. It is unfortunate that this change in the attitude of the court,
though much to be desired, occurred at a time when it had the appearance of serving a partisan
end. One of these suits was brought by the Republican attorney-general of the state to have
the charter of the city of Cleveland declared invalid on the ground that it was a special act.
This charter had been in force for over ten years, having granted liberal corporate powers
at a time when Cleveland was a Republican city. Later it passed into the Democratic column,
and this suit was instituted as part of the plan of the Republican machine of the state to
curb the power and influence of the mayor of that city. The new municipal code which was adopted
at an extra session of the legislature provided a scheme of government applicable to Cleveland
under which the powers of the mayor were much curtailed.

In the New York constitution of 1894 an effort was made to guard against the abuse of special
legislation. The cities of the state were by the constitution itself divided into three classes
according to population, and any law which did not apply to all the cities of a class was declared
to be a special act. Special legislation was not prohibited; but when any act of this kind
was passed by the legislature it was required to be submitted to the authorities of the city
or cities in question, and if disapproved of by them after a public hearing, it could become
law only by being passed again in the regular manner. This merely afforded to the cities affected
by the proposed special legislation an opportunity to protest against its enactment, the legislature
having full power to pass it in the face of local disapproval. That this is not an adequate
remedy for the evils of special legislation is shown by the fact that the two charters of New
York City enacted since this constitution went into effect, have both been framed by a state-appointed
commission and passed over the veto of the mayor.

The constitutional changes which have been mentioned must not be understood as implying any
repudiation of the doctrine that a municipal corporation is a creature of the general government
of the state. These provisions merely secured, or rather sought to secure, to cities some benefits
of a negative character--immunity from certain recognized abuses of legislative authority.
They are the expression of an effort to find a remedy for the evils of municipal government
by restricting the authority of the legislature rather than by giving cities the power to act
independently in local matters. They have diminished somewhat the evils of state interference,
but they failed to remove the cause by giving the cities the constitutional right to control
their own affairs.

The failure of all these measures to accomplish what was expected of them finally brought the
advocates of municipal reform to a realization of the fact that the American system made no
provision for real local self-government, and that our refusal to recognize this principle
was the chief cause of the prevalent corruption and misrule of our cities and the insuperable
obstacle to all effective and thoroughgoing reform. As soon as attention was directed to this
feature of the problem it was seen that no system could be devised that would be better adapted
to the purpose of defeating the end of good city government, since those who would be directly
benefited by the reforms in municipal government were powerless to bring them about except
with the co-operation of the legislature. Moreover the consent of the legislature, though once
given, was liable at any time to be withdrawn at the instigation of private or partisan interests,
since this body was not directly interested in establishing and maintaining good municipal
government nor responsible to those who were.

It was finally seen that some more effective measure than the prohibition of special legislation
was required. The next step was the attempt to secure to cities the needed authority in local
matters by means of a constitutional provision authorizing them to frame their own charters.
In this movement the state of Missouri led the way by incorporating a home-rule provision in
its constitution of 1875. California, Washington, Minnesota, and Colorado have since adopted
similar provisions. In each of these states the charter is framed by a commission locally elected
except in Minnesota, where it is appointed by the district judge.

In Missouri this privilege is accorded only to cities having more than 100,000 inhabitants.
The constitution of California adopted in 1879 also restricted the benefits of home rule to
cities of more than 100,000 population, but it has since been extended to all cities having
more than 3,500 inhabitants. Washington allows all cities having 20,000 or more population
to frame their own charters. Minnesota extends the privilege to all cities and villages without
respect to size, while Colorado restricts it to cities having more than 2,000 inhabitants.

The right to serve as a member of a charter commission is limited to freeholders in all these
states except Colorado, where it is restricted to taxpayers. The object of these home-rule
provisions was to give cities some measure of initiative in local affairs without at the same
time permitting them to organize on the plan of simple majority rule. In the Missouri constitution
of 1875 a four-sevenths vote was required to adopt a charter and a three-fifths vote to ratify
an amendment, although the constitution itself was adopted and could be amended by mere majority
vote. The constitution of California permits ratification by a majority of the qualified voters,
but every charter thus ratified must be submitted to the legislature for its approval or rejection
as a whole. No charter amendment can be adopted except by a three-fifths majority of the popular
vote and subsequent legislative approval, although, as in the case of Missouri, a majority
vote is sufficient to approve an amendment to the state constitution. In Washington the constitution
provides for the ratification of charters and charter amendments by a majority of the qualified
electors. The constitutional amendment adopted in Minnesota in 1896, with its subsequent modifications,
provides for the ratification of charters and charter amendments by a four-sevenths vote except
in the case of certain cities where a three-fourths majority is required. A three-fifths vote
in favor of a charter amendment is necessary for its ratification. Colorado, by a constitutional
amendment adopted in 1902, permits the ratification and amendment of charters by a majority
vote. A constitutional amendment adopted in Missouri in 1902 provides for the ratification
of charters by majority vote.

With the exception of California, where the constitutional amendment of 1902 allows 15 per
cent. of the qualified voters to require the submission of a charter amendment, and Colorado,
where 25 per cent. of the voters have that right, the states above mentioned make no provision
in their constitutions for the popular initiative. Both Washington and Minnesota, however,
have permitted it by statute, the former on the application of 15 per cent., and the latter
when 5 per cent. of the qualified voters demand it.

The chief defect of these constitutional provisions relating to home rule is that they do not
really grant it. There are too many restrictions imposed upon cities availing themselves of
this privilege, and in two of the states in question, notably in Missouri, they are for the
benefit of the larger cities only. The restriction of the charter-framing right to freeholders,
the withholding from the majority of the power to amend in California and Minnesota, and the
failure to provide in the constitution for the popular initiative in Missouri, Washington,
and Minnesota indicate a willingness to grant the right of home rule only under such conditions
as are calculated to ensure adequate limitation of the power of the majority.

These constitutional provisions certainly point in the direction which we must follow if we
would find any satisfactory solution of our municipal problem. They would, if liberally interpreted
by the courts, secure to cities immunity from interference in local matters. But the courts
are naturally opposed to innovations in our constitutional system, and have consequently been
disposed to give provisions of this character such an interpretation as will minimize their
effect. The requirement that the charters framed under these provisions must be in harmony
with the constitution and laws of the state has been declared by the courts to mean that they
must not only conform to the laws in force at the time the charters are adopted, but also that
they must conform to all legislation subsequently enacted. Had the courts been thoroughly imbued
with the principle of local self-government, they could easily have given these constitutional
provisions an interpretation which would have effectually deprived the legislature of the power
to interfere in purely local affairs. They could have declared all acts by which the state
government sought to invade the sphere of local affairs null and void, just as they have all
acts of the municipal government which have encroached upon the powers reserved exclusively
to the state. What the courts have done, however, is to hold that these constitutional provisions
merely authorize cities to govern themselves in accordance with the constitution and in harmony
with such laws as the legislature has or may hereafter enact. The city may adopt a charter
which is in harmony with the constitution and the laws of the state, but the charter thus adopted
may be freely modified by general laws relating to cities. The unfriendly attitude of the courts
has thus largely defeated the object of these home-rule provisions. The state legislature is
still free to encroach upon or abridge the sphere of municipal self-government.

The constitutional provisions above mentioned may be regarded as having a twofold purpose.
They were designed to limit, if not destroy, the power of the legislature to invade the sphere
of municipal affairs, and also to confer upon cities the general power to act for themselves,
by virtue of which they could on their own initiative, subject to certain restrictions contained
in the constitution, set up their own government, formulate and carry out a municipal policy
and manage their own affairs to suit themselves. This would seem to be implied necessarily
in the grant of constitutional power to frame a charter for their own government. A liberal
interpretation of this feature of the constitutions in question would have held that all cities
to which it applied were thereby authorized to exercise all powers not expressly withheld by
the constitution or the statutes of the state. This, however, has not been the attitude of
the courts. Their reluctance to give home-rule provisions a liberal interpretation may be illustrated
by a decision of the supreme court of Washington. In addition to the power granted to cities
of the first class to frame their own charters the constitution of this state provides that
"any county, city, town, or township, may make and enforce within its limits all such local,
police, sanitary and other regulations as are not in conflict with general laws." In view of
the attitude that courts have generally taken in this matter it is not surprising that the
supreme court of Washington has intimated that the above-mentioned constitutional provisions
are not self-executing. Moreover, it does not seem disposed to concede even to cities of the
first class any important powers except such as have been expressly conferred by statute. For
example, the statutes of Washington authorize cities of the first class "to regulate and control
the use" of gas supplied by a private corporation, and the charter of Tacoma expressly gave
to the city council the power to fix the price of gas so supplied. Suit was brought to enjoin
the city from exercising this power which was claimed under the constitutional and statutory
authority given to cities of the first class. The supreme court held that while Tacoma had
the power to regulate and control, expressly given it by statute, it did not have the power
to fix the price.[164] This decision evinces a singular lack of sympathy on the part of the
court with the home-rule provisions of the constitution of Washington.

But although the effort to confer upon cities by constitutional enactment the power to manage
their own affairs has thus far largely failed, it indicates a growing appreciation of the nature
of the problem and the character of the remedy that must be applied. A more clearly defined
and effective public opinion in favor of municipal self-government must in the end overcome
judicial opposition.

The most liberal interpretation of which these constitutional provisions are susceptible, however,
would not have ensured complete municipal self-government. Unless a city is given adequate
financial powers, a constitutional grant of the right of local self-government does not enable
it to exercise much choice in relation to the more important matters of municipal policy. By
narrowly limiting the powers of cities in this direction, they have been largely deprived of
the advantages which they would have enjoyed under a consistent application of the home-rule
principle. A certain amount of freedom in the use of the taxing power would seem to be no less
essential to the city than to the state itself. Within reasonable limits it ought to be conceded
the right to formulate its own scheme of taxation. In every important American city the taxes
collected for municipal purposes greatly exceed those imposed for the support of the county
and state government. In a matter which so vitally concerns the city it ought to have some
right to pursue a policy of its own. This right has not been recognized, however, even in the
constitutions which have made most concessions to the principle of municipal home rule. By
this means all innovations or reforms in municipal taxation except such as may be authorized
by the state itself are effectually prevented. It could not, for instance, exempt personal
property from taxation, or make a tax on ground rent the main source of its revenue.

The power to incur debt for municipal purposes is no less essential than the power to tax.
The present-day city must spend large sums in making public improvements the cost of which
it is necessary to distribute over a period of years. To limit too narrowly the borrowing power
of cities for these purposes would prevent them from realizing the full benefits of unhampered
self-government. This does not imply that a city should own and operate all industries of a
quasi-public character, but it does imply that it should have the unquestioned right and the
power to do so. Unless this is the case it is not in a position to secure the most favorable
terms from such private corporations as may be allowed to occupy this field. Unreasonable restrictions
upon the borrowing power of cities by placing obstacles in the way of municipal ownership of
public utilities tend to deprive the people of the most effective safeguard against the extortion
of private monopolies.

The limitation placed upon the amount of municipal indebtedness has not had altogether the
effect intended. This is mainly due to the fact that the debt limit fixed in the state constitutions
was in many cases so low that it did not permit cities to make absolutely necessary public
improvements, such as the paving of streets and construction of sewers. To make these improvements
without resorting to credit would require the owners of the property affected to advance the
full amount of their cost. This would in many instances be extremely inconvenient. Accordingly,
an effort was made to find some method of evading these restrictions which would be upheld
by the courts. This was accomplished by issuing bonds to be paid out of a special fund which
was to be created by taxes assessed against the property of the district charged with the cost
of the improvements. The courts held that this was merely a lien upon the property of the district
in question, and not a municipal debt within the meaning of the above-mentioned constitutional
limitations. These decisions by the courts may not appear to be in harmony with the letter
of the constitutional provisions relating to municipal indebtedness, but they are hardly at
variance with their spirit. The object of these restrictions was not so much to limit the rights
of the property-owning classes as to protect them against the extravagance of the propertyless
voters. To make an exception in favor of municipal indebtedness incurred in this way and for
these purposes was not calculated to work any hardship upon property owners, but rather to
give them the power to authorize the employment of credit for their own advantage. They were
protected against the abuse of this particular kind of indebtedness inasmuch as the consent
of the owners of a majority of the property affected was quite generally required.

One influence which helped to mold a public sentiment in favor of constitutional provisions
limiting the amount of municipal indebtedness was the rapid increase in the debts of American
cities during the period that immediately followed the Civil war. For this condition of affairs
the state government itself was largely to blame. It had prescribed a form of municipal organization
which was scarcely compatible with an efficient and responsible management of financial matters.
Moreover, the state government, as we have seen, could empower its own agents to borrow money
for a purpose which it had authorized and obligate the city to pay it. The effort to correct
these evils, first noticeable about the year 1870, took the form of constitutional provisions
limiting the amount of indebtedness which could be incurred by or on behalf of cities. The
main object of these provisions was to protect municipal taxpayers against an extravagant use
of the borrowing power for local purposes, whether exercised by state or municipal authorities.

Another advantage which these provisions seemed likely to secure to the capital-owning class
deserves at least a passing mention. This policy of limiting the amount of municipal indebtedness
was adopted at a time when, owing to the rapid growth of urban population, the local monopolies
of water, light, transportation, etc., were becoming an important and extremely profitable
field for the investment of private capital. The restrictions imposed upon the power of cities
to borrow money would retard, if not preclude, the adoption of a policy of municipal ownership
and thus enable the private capitalist to retain exclusive possession of this important class
of industries.

That the constitutional restrictions upon the general indebtedness of cities have retarded
the movement toward municipal ownership is beyond question. It is not likely, however, that
they will much longer block the way to municipal acquisition of those industries in which private
management has proven unsatisfactory, since it may be possible to evade them by resorting to
the device of a special fund. The same line of argument which has been accepted by the courts
as supporting the constitutionality of the special fund for local improvement purposes is no
less applicable to special debts incurred for the purchase of revenue-producing public utilities,
such as water works, lighting plants and street railways. Under this arrangement, however,
the city must not assume any responsibility for the payment of the capital borrowed, the creditors
advancing the purchase price or cost of construction, looking solely to the earnings under
municipal operation for the payment of both principal and interest. It may be doubted whether
the courts in permitting cities to employ the special fund in relation to local improvements
realized its possibilities in the direction of municipal ownership.[165]

These restrictions upon the powers of cities indicate a fear that too much local self-government
might jeopardize the interests of the propertied classes. This attitude on the part of those
who have framed and interpreted our state constitutions is merely an expression of that distrust
of majority rule which is, as we have seen, the distinguishing feature of the American system
of government. It is in the cities that the non-possessing classes are numerically strongest
and the inequality in the distribution of wealth most pronounced. This largely explains the
reluctance of the state to allow cities a free hand in the management of local affairs. A municipal
government responsive to public opinion might be too much inclined to make the public interests
a pretext for disregarding property rights. State control of cities, then, may be regarded
as a means of protecting the local minority against the local majority. Every attempt to reform
this system must encounter the opposition of the property-owning class, which is one of the
chief reasons why all efforts to establish municipal self-government have thus far largely failed.

We thus see that while property qualifications for the suffrage have disappeared, the influence
of property still survives. In many ways and for many purposes property is directly or indirectly
recognized in the organization and administration of municipal government. The movement toward
democracy has had less influence upon property qualifications for the suffrage and for office-holding
in its relation to municipal than in its relation to state and national affairs. When the Federal
Constitution was adopted the property qualifications for voting and office-holding in force
in the various states were not disturbed. The Constitution did not recognize the principle
of universal suffrage. It not only allowed the states to retain the power to prescribe the
qualifications of voters in state and municipal elections, but also limited the suffrage for
Federal purposes to those who were qualified to vote at state elections.[166] The removal,
during the first half of the nineteenth century, of property qualifications for voting at state
elections and holding state offices had the effect of placing the Federal suffrage upon a popular
basis.

The influence of the democratic movement was less marked, however, in the domain of municipal
affairs. Here the old system under which voting and office-holding were regarded as the exclusive
right of the property-owning class has not entirely disappeared. In this as in other respects
the American state has evinced a fear of municipal democracy. It is true that in the choice
of public officials the principle of manhood suffrage prevails. But the suffrage may be exercised
either with reference to candidates or measures; and in voting upon questions of municipal
policy, which is far more important than the right to select administrative officers, the suffrage
is often restricted to taxpayers or the owners of real estate. Thus in Colorado, which has
gone as far as any state in the Union in the direction of municipal democracy, no franchise
can be granted to a private corporation or debt incurred by a city for the purpose of municipal
ownership without the approval of the taxpaying electors. When we consider that 72 per cent.
of the families living in Denver in the year 1900 occupied rented houses,[167] and that the
household goods of a head of a family to the value of two hundred dollars are exempt from taxation,[168]
the effect of this restriction is obvious. In thus limiting the right to vote, the framers
of the state constitution evidently proceeded upon the theory that the policy of a city with
reference to its public utilities should be controlled by its taxpayers. The justification
for this constitutional provision is not apparent, however, inasmuch as the burden of supporting
the public service industries of a city is not borne by the taxpayers as such, but by the people
generally. Such a system makes it possible for the taxpaying class to control public utilities
in their own interest and to the disadvantage of the general public. The part of the community
who are taxpayers, if given the exclusive right to control these industries, would be tempted
to make them an important source of municipal revenue. They would be likely to favor high rather
than low or reasonable charges for these necessary public services, since their taxes would
be diminished by the amount thus taken from the non-taxpayers through excessive charges. Where
the majority of the citizens are property owners and taxpayers there is but little danger that
public ownership will be subject to this abuse. But where there is great inequality in the
distribution of wealth and a large propertyless class, democracy is the only guarantee that
the benefits of municipal ownership will not be monopolized by the property-owning class.

An investigation of the practical working of municipal ownership in American cities will show
that this danger is not purely imaginary. In the year 1899 53.73 per cent. of the waterworks
in this country were owned and operated by municipalities, public ownership being the rule
in the larger cities. Taking the thirteen largest plants in the United States, all of which
were municipally owned, the income from private users was $20,545,409, while the total cost
of production, including estimated depreciation, aggregated only $11,469,732. If to this amount
be added the estimated taxes, interest on total investment and rental value of the municipally
owned quarters occupied for this purpose, the total cost of production would be $22,827,825.
Private consumers, however, used only 80.2 per cent. of the water supplied. If the 19.8 per
cent. supplied free for public purposes had been paid for at the same rate charged to private
users, the total income from these 13 municipally owned plants would have been $25,817,720.
This would have been $2,989,895 in excess of a fair return upon the total investment. No one
would claim that the price of water has been increased under municipal ownership. As a matter
of fact, it has been substantially reduced and the quality of the water at the same time improved.
The reduction in price, however, has been less than it would have been, had the interests of
the consumers alone been considered. If the object of municipal ownership is to supply pure
water at the lowest possible price to the general public, there is no good reason why the city
should demand a profit on the capital it has invested in the business. This would certainly
be true where the earnings under municipal ownership have been sufficient to pay for the plant.
In this case it would be an injustice to consumers to make them contribute, over and above
the cost of operating the plant, an additional amount sufficient to pay interest on the investment,
inasmuch as they have supplied the capital with which the business is carried on. Any attempt
to make municipal ownership a source of revenue would mean the taxation of water consumers
for the benefit of property owners. Nor is there any reason why the private consumers of water
should be made to pay for the water used for public purposes. The water needed for public buildings,
for cleaning streets and for extinguishing fires ought to be paid for by those chiefly benefited--the
property-owning class.

If instead of considering these thirteen waterworks together, we take a single example--the
third largest plant--the tendency to make public ownership a source of revenue is more clearly
seen. The income from private users in the case of this plant was $4,459,404. The city used
for public purposes 29.5 per cent. of the total amount supplied, which if paid for at the rate
charged private consumers would have made the total income from operation $6,325,395. This
would have been $2,929,232 more than was required to pay all expenses, including interest on
the total investment.[169]

In the case of electric-light plants private ownership is the rule, only 460 of the 3,032 plants
being under municipal ownership. The Report of the United States Commissioner of Labor[170]
gives the data for 952 of these plants, 320 of which are municipally owned and operated. Municipal
ownership, however, is mainly confined to the smaller cities and towns. This is shown by the
fact that although more than one-third of the 952 plants above mentioned are under municipal
control, only 30 out of 277, or less than one-ninth of the largest plants, are municipally
owned. This is to be accounted for by the more determined opposition to the policy of municipal
ownership by the capitalist class in the larger cities, where private management is most remunerative.
Municipal plants, too, are often restricted to public lighting, not being allowed to furnish
light or power for commercial purposes. This restricted form of municipal ownership is merely
a slight concession on the part of the private monopolist to the taxpaying class. The general
public, as consumers of light and power, derive no benefit from such a policy.

These and other facts which might be mentioned illustrate the natural tendency of a system
under which the power of the masses is limited in the interest of the property-owning class.
The chief evils of municipal government in this country have their source not in majority but
in minority rule. It is in the city where we find a numerically small but very wealthy class
and a large class owning little or no property that the general political movement toward democracy
has encountered the most obstinate resistance. Only a small part of our urban population own
land or capital. The overwhelming majority of those who live in cities are employees and tenants.
In the year 1900 74.3 per cent. of the families in the 160 cities of the United States having
25,000 or more population lived in rented houses and only 14.5 per cent. in unmortgaged homes.[171]
In the smaller towns the proportion of property owners was larger, while in the country the
majority of the population belonged to the land-holding class, 64.4 per cent. of the "farm"
families owning their homes, 44.4 per cent. of such families owning homes that were unencumbered.[172]

"Much has been said concerning the necessity of legislative interference in some cases where
bad men were coming into power through universal suffrage in cities, but the recent experience
of the country shows that this has oftener been said to pave the way for bad men to obtain
office or grants of unusual powers from the legislature than with any purpose to effect local
reforms. And the great municipal scandals and frauds that have prevailed, like those which
were so notorious in New York City, have been made possible and then nursed and fostered by
illegitimate interference at the seat of State government."[173]

The numerical preponderance of the property-owning class in the country and of the propertyless
class in the cities must be taken into account in any attempt to find an explanation of the
reluctance on the part of the state to recognize the principle of municipal self-government.
When we consider that the state government, even under universal suffrage, is largely government
by taxpaying property owners, we can understand why the progress toward municipal democracy
has been so slow. Under universal suffrage municipal self-government would mean the ascendency
of the propertyless class, and this, from the standpoint of those who control the state government,
would jeopardize the interests of the property-holding minority.

This is doubtless one of the chief reasons why the state government has not been willing to
relinquish its control over municipal affairs. This fact is not recognized, however, by present-day
writers on American politics. It is generally assumed that the corruption in state and municipal
government is largely due to the ascendency of the masses. This view of the matter may be acceptable
to those who from principle or interest are opposed to democracy, but it ignores the facts
which a careful analysis of the system discloses. Even in our state governments the changes
that have been made as a concession to the newer democratic thought are less important than
is generally supposed. The removal of property qualifications for voting and office-holding
was a concession in form rather than in substance. It occurred at a time when there was an
apparently inexhaustible supply of free land which made it possible for every one to become
a landowner. Under such circumstances universal suffrage was not a radical or dangerous innovation.
In fact, property qualifications for voting and office-holding were not necessary to the political
ascendency of property owners in a community where the great majority of the citizens were
or could become members of the property-owning class. It is not likely that property qualifications
would have been removed for state purposes without a more serious struggle, if the wide diffusion
of property in the state at large had not appeared to be an ample guarantee that the interests
of property owners would not be endangered by universal suffrage. It was probably not intended
that the abolition of property qualifications should overthrow the influence of property owners,
or make any radical change in the policy of the state government.

It is easily seen that the removal of property qualifications for voting and office-holding
has had the effect of retarding the movement toward municipal home rule. Before universal suffrage
was established the property-owning class was in control of both state and city government.
This made state interference in local affairs unnecessary for the protection of property. But
with the introduction of universal suffrage the conservative element which dominated the state
government naturally favored a policy of state interference as the only means of protecting
the property-owning class in the cities. In this they were actively supported by the corrupt
politicians and selfish business interests that sought to exploit the cities for private ends.
Our municipal conditions are thus the natural result of this alliance between conservatism
and corruption.

We can understand now why the state has been unwilling to permit the same measure of democracy
in municipal affairs that it has seen fit to employ for its own purposes. This is why our limited
majority rule, which may be safe enough in the state government, is often deemed inexpedient
for the city. It is also the reason for keeping the more important municipal powers under the
control of the state government, as well as the ground for continuing property qualifications
in the city after their disappearance from the government of the state.

The checks above mentioned are not the only ones to be found, however, in our municipal government.
The city is organized, like the state government, on the plan of distributed powers and diffused
responsibility. It contains, as a rule, an elaborate system of checks which affords little
opportunity for the prompt and effective expression of local public opinion in the administration
of municipal affairs. At the same time, it gives the municipal authorities power to inaugurate
and carry out policies to which local public sentiment may be strongly opposed. This is seen
in the control which the mayor and council quite generally exercise over the matter of municipal
franchises. Probably not a city of any importance could be mentioned in which the council has
not granted privileges which have enriched individuals and private corporations at the expense
of the public. This power has been the chief source of municipal corruption, since it has made
the misgovernment of cities a source of great profit to a wealthy and influential class. Those
who imagine that the ignorant and vicious part of our urban population is the main obstacle
to reform take but a superficial view of the matter. The real source of misgovernment--the
active cause of corruption--is to be found, not in the slums, not in the population ordinarily
regarded as ignorant and vicious, but in the selfishness and greed of those who are the recognized
leaders in commercial and industrial affairs. It is this class that, as Lincoln Steffens says,
may be found "buying boodlers in St. Louis, defending grafters in Minneapolis, originating
corruption in Pittsburg, sharing with bosses in Philadelphia, deploring reform in Chicago,
and beating good government with corruption funds in New York."[174] This is the natural fruit
of our system of municipal government. The powerful corporate interests engaged in the exploitation
of municipal franchises are securely entrenched behind a series of constitutional and legal
checks on the majority which makes it extremely difficult for public opinion to exercise any
effective control over them. The effort to provide a remedy for this condition of affairs took
the form of a movement to limit the powers of the council. Boards and commissions have been
created in whose hands have been placed much of the business formerly controlled by this body.
The policy of subdividing the legislative authority of the city and distributing it among a
number of independent boards has been carried so far, notably in New York, that, as Seth Low
observes, the council has been largely deprived of all its legislative functions with the single
exception of the power to grant public franchises.[175] It must not be inferred, however, that
public opinion has favored the retention of this power by the council. The attempt on the part
of the people to control the franchise-granting power has thus far largely failed, not because
of any lack of popular support, but because our constitutional and political arrangements have
made it almost impossible for any reasonable majority to overcome the opposition of organized
wealth.

Our efforts to bring about reforms in municipal government have thus far largely failed to
accomplish what was expected of them because we have persistently refused to recognize the
principle of majority rule. We have clung tenaciously to the system of checks and balances
with all its restraints on popular control. The evils of municipal government are not the evils
of democracy, but the evils of a system which limits the power of the majority in the interest
of the minority. Government was largely in the hands of a ruling class who were able to further
their own interests at the expense of the many who were unrepresented. It was but natural under
these circumstances that the people should seek to limit the exercise of political authority,
since every check imposed upon the government lessened the dangers of class rule. The problem
which the advocates of political reform had to solve was how to secure the largest measure
of individual liberty compatible with an irresponsible government. They were right in believing
that this could be accomplished only by building up an elaborate system of constitutional restraints
which would narrowly limit the exercise of irresponsible authority. Individual liberty as they
understood the term was immunity from unjust interference at the hands of a minority.

This was a purely negative conception. It involved nothing more than the idea of protection
against the evils of irresponsible government. It was a view of liberty adapted, however, to
the needs of the time and served a useful purpose in aiding the movement to curb without destroying
the power of the ruling class. Any attempt to push the doctrine of liberty farther than this
and make it include more than mere immunity from governmental interference would have been
revolutionary. The seventeenth and eighteenth century demand was not for the abolition, but
for the limitation of irresponsible authority. It was not for popular government based upon
universal suffrage, but for such modifications of the system as would give to the commercial
and industrial classes the power to resist all encroachments upon their rights at the hands
of the hereditary branches of the government. The basis and guarantee of individual liberty,
as the term was then understood, was the popular veto such as was exercised through the House
of Commons. This conception of liberty was realized for those represented in any coordinate
branch of the government wherever the check and balance stage of political development had
been reached.

The American revolution, which supplanted hereditary by popular rule, worked a fundamental
change in the relation of the individual to the government. So far at least as the voters were
concerned the government was no longer an alien institution--an authority imposed upon them
from above, but an organization emanating from them--one in which they had and felt a direct
proprietary interest. It was no longer a government in which the active principle was irresponsible
authority, but one which rested upon the safe and trustworthy basis of popular control.

The overthrow of monarchy and aristocracy necessitated a corresponding change in the idea of
liberty to make it fit the new political conditions which had emerged. In so far as government
had now passed into the hands of the people there was no longer any reason to fear that it
would encroach upon what they regarded as their rights. With the transition, then, from class
to popular sovereignty there was a corresponding change in the attitude of the people toward
the government. They naturally desired to limit the authority and restrict the activity of
the government as long as they felt that it was irresponsible; but as soon as they acquired
an active control over it, the reason which formerly actuated them in desiring to limit its
powers was no longer operative. Their ends could now be accomplished and their interests best
furthered by unhampered political activity. They would now desire to remove the checks upon
the government for the same reason that they formerly sought to impose them--viz., to promote
their own welfare.

This tendency is seen in the changes made in the state constitutions at the beginning of the
American revolution. As shown in a previous chapter, they established the supremacy of the
legislative body and through this branch of the government, the supremacy of the majority of
the qualified voters. We have here a new conception of liberty. We see a tendency in these
constitutional changes to reject the old passive view of state interference as limited by the
consent of the governed and take the view that real liberty implies much more than the mere
power of constitutional resistance--that it is something positive, that its essence is the
power to actively control and direct the policy of the state. The early state constitutions
thus represent a long step in the direction of unlimited responsible government.

This, as we have seen, was the chief danger which the conservative classes saw in the form
of government established at the outbreak of the Revolution. They were afraid that the power
of the numerical majority would be employed to further the interests of the many at the expense
of the few, and to guard against such a use of the government they sought to re-establish the
system of checks. The Constitution which restored the old scheme of government in a new garb
also revived the old conception of individual liberty. There is, however, one important difference
between the eighteenth-century conception of liberty and that which finds expression in our
constitutional literature. Formerly it was because of the lack of popular control that the
people generally desired to limit the authority of the government, but the framers of the Constitution
wished to bring about the limitation of governmental functions because they feared the consequences
of majority rule. Formerly the many advocated the limitation of the power of king and aristocracy
in the interest of liberty; now the few advocate the limitation of the power of the many for
their own protection. With the abolition of monarchy and aristocracy the attitude of the few
and the many has been reversed. The aristocratic and special interests that formerly opposed
the limitation of political activity when they were predominant in the government, now favor
it as a protection against the growing power of the masses, while the latter, who formerly
favored, now oppose it. The conservative classes now regard the popular majority with the same
distrust which the liberals formerly felt toward the king and aristocracy. In fact, the present-day
conservative goes even farther than this and would have us believe that the popular majority
is a much greater menace to liberty than king or aristocracy has ever been in the past.

"There can be no tyranny of a monarch so intolerable," says a recent American writer, "as that
of the multitude, for it has the power behind it that no king can sway."[176] This is and has
all along been the attitude of the conservative classes who never lose an opportunity to bring
the theory of democracy into disrepute. The defenders of the American Constitution clearly
see that unless the fundamental principle of popular government is discredited the system of
checks can not survive.

There is no liberty, we are told by the present-day followers of Alexander Hamilton, where
the majority is supreme. The American political system realizes this conception of liberty
mainly through the Supreme Court--an organ of government which interprets the Constitution
and laws of Congress and which may forbid the carrying out of the expressed will of the popular
majority. It necessarily follows that the authority which can thus overrule the majority and
enforce its own views of the system is an authority greater than the majority. All governments
must belong to one or the other of two classes according as the ultimate basis of political
power is the many or the few. There is, in fact, no middle ground. We must either recognize
the many as supreme, with no checks upon their authority except such as are implied in their
own intelligence, sense of justice and spirit of fair play, or we must accept the view that
the ultimate authority is in the hands of the few. Every scheme under which the power of the
majority is limited means in its practical operation the subordination of the majority to the
minority. This inevitable consequence of the limitation of popular rule is not alluded to by
the advocates of checks and balances, though it is obvious to any careful student of the system.

It would, however, do injustice to the intelligence of those who champion the scheme of checks
and balances to give them credit for any real sympathy with the aims and purposes of democracy.
Individual liberty as guaranteed by majority rule was not the end which the framers of the
Constitution had in view, nor is it the reason why the present-day conservative defends their
work. The Constitution as originally adopted did not contain that highly prized guarantee of
personal liberty which democracy everywhere insists upon. The failure to make any provision
for freedom of the press should be regarded as a significant omission. This, however, was not
an essential part of the Federalists' scheme of government, which aimed rather to protect the
property and privileges of the few than to guarantee personal liberty to the masses. This omission
is the more noteworthy in view of the fact that this guarantee was at that time expressly included
in a majority of the state constitutions, and that the temper of the people was such as to
compel its speedy adoption as an amendment to the Federal Constitution itself.

Liberty, as the framers of the Constitution understood the term, had to do primarily with property
and property rights. The chief danger which they saw in the Revolutionary state governments
was the opportunity afforded to the majority to legislate upon matters which the well-to-do
classes wished to place beyond the reach of popular interference. The unlimited authority which
the state government had over taxation and its power to restrict or abridge property rights
were viewed with alarm by the wealthy classes, who felt that any considerable measure of democracy
would be likely to deprive them of their time-honored prerogatives. To guard against this danger
the Constitution sought, in the interest of the classes which dominated the Federal Convention,
to give the widest possible scope to private property. It prohibited private property in nothing--permitting
it, as originally adopted, even in human beings. It may be said without exaggeration that the
American scheme of government was planned and set up to perpetuate the ascendency of the property-holding
class in a society leavened with democratic ideas. Those who framed it were fully alive to
the fact that their economic advantages could be retained only by maintaining their class ascendency
in the government. They understood the economic significance of democracy. They realized that
if the supremacy of the majority were once fully established the entire policy of the government
would be profoundly changed. They foresaw that it would mean the abolition of all private monopoly
and the abridgment and regulation of property rights in the interest of the general public.

The Constitution was in form a political document, but its significance was mainly economic.
It was the outcome of an organized movement on the part of a class to surround themselves with
legal and constitutional guarantees which would check the tendency toward democratic legislation.
These were made effective through the attitude of the United States courts which, as Professor
Burgess says, "have never declined jurisdiction where private property was immediately affected
on the ground that the question was political."[177]

"There can be no question that the national government has given to the minority a greater
protection than it has enjoyed anywhere else in the world, save in those countries where the
minority is a specially privileged aristocracy and the right of suffrage is limited. So absolute
have property rights been held by the Supreme Court, that it even, by the Dred Scott decision,
in effect made the whole country a land of slavery, because the slave was property, and the
rights of property were sacred."[178]

In carrying out the original intent of the Constitution with reference to property the courts
have developed and applied the doctrine of vested rights--a doctrine which has been used with
telling effect for the purpose of defeating democratic reforms. This doctrine briefly stated
is that property rights once granted are sacred and inviolable. A rigid adherence to this policy
would effectually deprive the government of the power to make the laws governing private property
conform to social and economic changes. It would disregard the fact that vested rights are
often vested wrongs, and that one important, if not indeed the most important, task which a
government by and for the people has to perform is to rectify past mistakes and correct the
evils growing out of corruption and class rule. A government without authority to interfere
with vested rights would have little power to promote the general welfare through legislation.

The adoption of the Constitution brought this doctrine from the realm of political speculation
into the arena of practical politics. The men who framed and set up our Federal government
were shrewd enough to see that if the interests of the property-holding classes were to be
given effective protection, it was necessary that political power should rest ultimately upon
a class basis. This they expected to accomplish largely through the judicial veto and the power
and influence of the Supreme Court. The effect of establishing the supremacy of this branch
of the government was to make the legal profession virtually a ruling class. To their charge
was committed under our system of government the final authority in all matters of legislation.
They largely represent by virtue of their training and by reason of the interests with which
they are affiliated, the conservative as opposed to the democratic influences. The power and
influence exerted by lawyers in this country are the natural outgrowth of the constitutional
position of our Supreme Court. Its supremacy is in the last analysis the supremacy of lawyers
as a class and through them of the various interests which they represent and from which they
derive their support. This explains the fact so often commented on by foreign critics, that
in this country lawyers exert a predominant influence in political matters.

We are still keeping alive in our legal and constitutional literature the eighteenth-century
notion of liberty. Our future lawyers and judges are still trained in the old conception of
government--that the chief purpose of a constitution is to limit the power of the majority.
In the meantime all other democratic countries have outgrown this early conception which characterized
the infancy of democracy. They have in theory at least repudiated the eighteenth-century doctrine
that the few have a right to thwart the will of the many. The majority has in such countries
become the only recognized source of legitimate authority. "There is no fulcrum outside of
the majority, and therefore there is nothing on which, as against the majority resistance or
lengthened opposition can lean."[179] This statement was made with reference to France, but
it would apply as well to England, Switzerland, and all other countries in which the principle
of majority rule has received full recognition.

On the other hand American constitutional and legal literature still inculcates and keeps alive
fear and distrust of majority rule. The official and ruling class in this country has been
profoundly influenced by political ideas which have long been discarded in the countries which
have made the most rapid strides in the direction of popular government. The influence which
our constitutional and legal literature, based as it is upon a profound distrust of majority
rule, has had upon the lawyers, politicians, and public men of this country can hardly be overestimated.
It is true that many who have been most influenced by this spirit of distrust toward popular
government would be unwilling to admit that they are opposed to majority rule--in fact, they
may regard themselves as sincere believers in democracy. This is not to be wondered at when
we consider that throughout our history under the Constitution the old and the new have been
systematically jumbled in our political literature. In fact, the main effort of our constitutional
writers would appear to be to give to the undemocratic eighteenth-century political ideas a
garb and setting that would in a measure reconcile them with the democratic point of view.
The natural and inevitable result has followed. The students of American political literature
have imbibed the fundamental idea of the old system--its distrust of majority rule--along with
a certain sentimental attachment to and acceptance of the outward forms of democracy. This
irreconcilable contradiction between the form and the substance, the body and the spirit of
our political institutions is not generally recognized even by the American students of government.
Constitutional writers have been too much preoccupied with the thought of defending and glorifying
the work of the fathers and not enough interested in disclosing its true relation to present-day
thought and tendencies. As a consequence of this, the political ideas of our educated classes
represent a curious admixture of democratic beliefs superimposed upon a hardly conscious substratum
of eighteenth-century doctrines. It is this contradiction in our thinking that has been one
of our chief sources of difficulty in dealing with political problems. While honestly believing
that we have been endeavoring to make democracy a success, we have at the same time tenaciously
held on to the essential features of a political system designed for the purpose of defeating
the ends of popular government.

CHAPTER XII

INDIVIDUAL LIBERTY AND THE ECONOMIC SYSTEM

The American doctrine of individual liberty had its origin in economic conditions widely different
from those which prevail to-day. The tools of production were simple and inexpensive and their
ownership widely diffused. There was no capital-owning class in the modern sense. Business
was carried on upon a small scale. The individual was his own employer, or, if working for
another, could look forward to the time when, by the exercise of ordinary ability and thrift,
he might become an independent producer. The way was open by which every intelligent and industrious
wage-earner could become his own master. Industrially society was democratic to a degree which
it is difficult for us to realize at the present day. This economic independence which the
industrial classes enjoyed ensured a large measure of individual liberty in spite of the fact
that political control was in the hands of a class.

The degree of individual freedom and initiative which a community may enjoy is not wholly,
or even mainly, a matter of constitutional forms. The actual liberty of the individual may
vary greatly without any change in the legal or constitutional organization of society. A political
system essentially undemocratic would be much less destructive of individual liberty in a society
where the economic life was simple and ownership widely diffused than in a community possessing
a wealthy capitalist class on the one hand and an army of wage-earners on the other. The political
system reacts, it is true, upon the economic organization, but the influence of the latter
upon the individual is more direct and immediate than that of the former. The control exerted
over the individual directly by the government may, as a matter of fact, be slight in comparison
with that which is exercised through the various agencies which control the economic system.
But the close interdependence between the political and the business organization of society
can not be overlooked. Each is limited and conditioned by the other, though constitutional
forms are always largely the product and expression of economic conditions.

Individual liberty in any real sense implies much more than the restriction of governmental
authority. In fact, true liberty consists, as we have seen, not in divesting the government
of effective power, but in making it an instrument for the unhampered expression and prompt
enforcement of public opinion. The old negative conception of liberty would in practice merely
result in limiting the power of the government to control social conditions. This would not
necessarily mean, however, the immunity of the individual from external control. To limit the
power of the government may permit the extension over the individual of some other form of
control even more irresponsible than that of the government itself--the control which inevitably
results from the economic supremacy of a class who own the land and the capital.

The introduction of the factory system forced the great majority of small independent producers
down into the ranks of mere wage-earners, and subjected them in their daily work to a class
rule under which everything was subordinated to the controlling purpose of the employers--the
desire for profits.

The significance of this change from the old handicraft system of industry to present-day capitalistic
production is fully understood by all students of modern industry. Even Herbert Spencer, the
great expounder of individualism, admitted that the so-called liberty of the laborer "amounts
in practice to little more than the ability to exchange one slavery for another" and that "the
coercion of circumstances often bears more hardly on him than the coercion of a master does
on one in bondage."[180] This dependence of the laborer, however, he regarded as unfortunate,
and looked forward to the gradual amelioration of present conditions through the growth of
co-operation in production.

Individualism as an economic doctrine was advocated in the eighteenth century by those who
believed in a larger measure of freedom for the industrial classes. The small business which
was then the rule meant the wide diffusion of economic power. A laissez faire policy would
have furthered the interests of that large body of small independent producers who had but
little representation in and but little influence upon the government. It would have contributed
materially to the progress of the democratic movement by enlarging the sphere of industrial
freedom for all independent producers. It does not follow, however, that this doctrine which
served a useful purpose in connection with the eighteenth-century movement to limit the power
of the ruling class is sound in view of the political and economic conditions which exist to-day.
The so-called industrial revolution has accomplished sweeping and far-reaching changes in economic
organization. It has resulted in a transfer of industrial power from the many to the few, who
now exercise in all matters relating to production an authority as absolute and irresponsible
as that which the ruling class exercised in the middle of the eighteenth century over the state
itself. The simple decentralized and more democratic system of production which formerly prevailed
has thus been supplanted by a highly centralized and thoroughly oligarchic form of industrial
organization. At the same time political development has been tending strongly in the direction
of democracy. The few have been losing their hold upon the state, which has come to rest, in
theory at least, upon the wall of the many. A political transformation amounting to a revolution
has placed the many in the same position in relation to the government which was formerly held
by the favored few.

As a result of these political and economic changes the policy of government regulation of
industry is likely to be regarded by the masses with increasing favor. A society organized
as a political democracy can not be expected to tolerate an industrial aristocracy. As soon,
then, as the masses come to feel that they really control the political machinery, the irresponsible
power which the few now exercise in the management of industry will be limited or destroyed
as it has already been largely overthrown in the state itself. In fact the doctrine of laissez
faire no longer expresses the generally accepted view of state functions, but merely the selfish
view of that relatively small class which, though it controls the industrial system, feels
the reins of political control slipping out of its hands. The limitation of governmental functions
which was the rallying-cry of the liberals a century ago has thus become the motto of the present-day
conservative.

The opponents of government regulation of industry claim that it will retard or arrest progress
by restricting the right of individual initiative. They profess to believe that the best results
for society as a whole are obtained when every corporation or industrial combination is allowed
to manage its business with a free hand. It is assumed by those who advocate this policy that
there is no real conflict of interests between the capitalists who control the present-day
aggregations of corporate wealth and the general public. No argument is needed, however, to
convince any one familiar with the facts of recent industrial development that this assumption
is not true.

The change in the attitude of the people toward the let-alone theory of government is, as a
matter of fact, the outcome of an intelligently directed effort to enlarge and democratize--not
abridge--the right of initiative in its relation to the management of industry. The right of
individual initiative in the sense of the right to exercise a real control over production
was lost by the masses when the substitution of machinery for tools made them directly dependent
upon a class of capital-owning employers. The subsequent growth of large scale production has
centralized the actual control of industry in the hands of a small class of large capitalists.
The small capitalists as separate and independent producers are being rapidly crushed or absorbed
by the great corporation. They may still belong to the capitalist class in that they live upon
an income derived from the ownership of stock or bonds. But they have no real control over
the business in which their capital is invested. They no longer have the power to organize
and direct any part of the industrial process. They enjoy the benefits which accrue from the
ownership of wealth, but they can no longer take an active part in the management of industry.
For them individual initiative in the sense of an effective control over the industrial process
has disappeared almost as completely as it has in the case of the mere wage-earner. Individual
initiative even for the capital-owning class has thus largely disappeared. It has been superseded
by corporate initiative which means the extinguishment of individual initiative except in those
cases where it is secured to the large capitalist through the ownership of a controlling interest
in the business.

The abandonment of the laissez faire policy, then, in favor of the principle of government
regulation of industry is the outgrowth, not of any hostility to individual initiative, but
of the conviction that the monopoly of industrial power by the few is a serious evil. It is
manifestly impossible to restore to the masses the right of individual initiative. Industry
is too complex and too highly organized to permit a return to the old system of decentralized
control. And since the only substitute for the old system of individual control is collective
control, it appears to be inevitable that government regulation of business will become a fixed
policy in all democratic states.

The laissez faire policy is supposed to favor progress by allowing producers to make such changes
in business methods as may be prompted by the desire for larger profits. The doctrine as ordinarily
accepted contains at least two erroneous assumptions, viz., (1) that any innovation in production
which makes it possible for the capitalist to secure a larger return is necessarily an improvement
in the sense of augmenting the average efficiency of labor, and (2) that policies are to be
judged solely by their economic effects. Even if non-interference resulted in industrial changes
which in all cases increase the efficiency of labor, it would not follow that such changes
are, broadly considered, always beneficial. Before drawing any sweeping conclusion we must
consider all the consequences direct and indirect, immediate and remote, political and social
as well as economic. Hence the ordinary test--the direct and immediate effect upon productive
efficiency--is not a satisfactory one. Moreover, many changes in the methods or organization
of business are designed primarily to alter distribution in the interest of the capitalist
by decreasing wages or by raising prices. In so far as a policy of non-interference permits
changes of this sort, it is clearly harmful to the community at large, though advantageous
to a small class.

In all democratic countries the conservative classes are beginning to realize that their ascendency
in production is imperiled by the ascendency of the masses in the state. It thus happens that
in the hope of checking or retarding the movement toward regulation of business in the interest
of the people generally, they have taken refuge behind that abandoned tenet of democracy, the
doctrine of non-interference.

At the same time they strongly favor any deviation from this policy which will benefit themselves.
This is exemplified in their attitude in this country toward our protective tariff system,
which, as originally adopted, was designed to encourage the development of our national resources
by offering the prospect of larger profit to those who would invest their capital in the protected
industries. Under a capitalistic system development naturally follows the line of greatest
profit, and for this reason any protective tariff legislation which did not augment the profits
of the capitalist would fail to accomplish its purpose. This was recognized and frankly admitted
when the policy was first adopted. Later, however, when the suffrage was extended and the laboring
class became an important factor in national elections the champions of protection saw that
the system would have to be given a more democratic interpretation. Thus the Whig platform
of 1844 favored a tariff "discriminating with special reference to the protection of the domestic
labor of the country." This was, however, the only political platform in which the labor argument
was used until 1872, when the Republican party demanded that "duties upon importations ...
should be so adjusted as to aid in securing remunerative wages to labor, and promote the industries,
prosperity, and growth of the whole country." Protection, since that time, has been defended,
not as a means of augmenting profits, but as a means of ensuring high wages to American workers.
The interests of the wage-receiving class, however, were far from being the chief concern of
those who were seeking to maintain and develop the policy of protection. It was to the capitalist
rather than the wage-earner that the system of protection as originally established made a
direct appeal, and it was primarily in the interest of this class that it was maintained even
after the labor argument came to be generally used in its defense. The capitalist naturally
favored a policy that would discourage the importation of foreign goods and at the same time
encourage the importation of foreign labor. It was to his advantage to keep the labor market
open to all who might wish to compete for employment, since this would tend to force wages
down and thus give him the benefit of high prices.

Any system of protection established in the interest of labor would have excluded all immigrants
accustomed to a low standard of living. But as a matter of fact the immigration of cheap foreign
labor was actively encouraged by the employers in whose interest the high tariff on foreign
goods was maintained. The efforts of the wage-earning class to secure for themselves some of
the benefits of protection by organizing to obtain an advance or prevent a reduction in wages
was largely defeated through the wholesale importation of cheap foreign labor by the large
manufacturing, mining and transportation companies. The agitation against this evil carried
on by the labor unions finally resulted in the enactment by Congress of legislation forbidding
the importation of labor under contract of employment. This, however, did not, and even if
it had been efficiently enforced, would not have given the American workingman any real protection
against cheap foreign labor. The incoming tide of foreign immigration has been rising and the
civic quality of the immigrant has visibly declined. The free lands which formerly attracted
the best class of European immigrants are now practically a thing of the past, and with the
disappearance of this opportunity for remunerative self-employment the last support of high
wages has been removed. With unrestricted immigration the American laboring man must soon be
deprived of any economic advantage which he has heretofore enjoyed over the laboring classes
of other countries.

There has been one notable exception to this immigration policy. The invasion of cheap Asiatic
labor upon the Pacific coast aroused a storm of protest from the laboring population, which
compelled Congress to pass the Chinese Exclusion Act. But this legislation, while shutting
out Chinese laborers, has not checked the immigration from other countries where a low standard
of living prevails. In fact the most noticeable feature of the labor conditions in this country
has been the continual displacement of the earlier and better class of immigrants and native
workers by recent immigrants who have a lower standard of living and are willing to work for
lower wages. This has occurred, too, in some of the industries in which the employer has been
most effectually protected against the competition of foreign goods.[181]

The time has certainly arrived when the policy of protection ought to be more broadly considered
and dealt with in a public-spirited and statesman-like manner. If it is to be continued as
a national policy, the interests of employees as well as employers must be taken into account.
The chief evils of the protective system have been due to the fact that it has been too largely
a class policy, and while maintained in the interest of a class, it has been adroitly defended
as a means of benefiting the classes who derived little or no benefit--who were, indeed, often
injured by our tariff legislation.

The large capitalist may grow eloquent in defense of that broad humanitarian policy under which
the weak, the oppressed, and the ignorant of all nations are invited to come among us and share
in the economic and political opportunities and privileges of American citizens. Such high-sounding
and professedly disinterested cosmopolitanism appeals to a certain class of sentimental believers
in democracy. It does not appeal, however, to any one who fully understands present-day industrial
and political conditions. This capitalistic sympathy for the weak and the oppressed of other
nations may be regarded by some as the expression of a broader patriotism, but its tap-root
is class selfishness--the desire to secure high profits through maintaining active competition
among laborers. As a matter of fact, all legislation does, and always must, appeal to the interest
of those without whose influence and support it could not be enacted, and nothing is ever gained
for true progress by making the pretence of disinterested love for humanity the cloak for class
greed.

The desire of the employing class for cheap labor has been responsible for the greatest dangers
which menace this country to-day. It was the demand for cheap labor which led to the importation
of the African slave and perpetuated the institution of slavery until, with the voluntary immigration
of foreign labor, it was no longer an economic necessity from the standpoint of the employing
class. Indeed the very existence of slavery, by discouraging immigration, tended to limit the
supply of labor, and by so doing, to cripple all enterprises in which free labor was employed.
In this sense the abolition of slavery was the result of an economic movement. It was to the
advantage of the employing class as a whole who found in the free labor hired under competitive
conditions a more efficient and cheaper instrument of production than the slave whom they had
to buy and for whose support they were responsible.

Had it not been for this eagerness on the part of the employing class to secure cheap labor
at first through the importation of the African slave and later through the active encouragement
of indiscriminate foreign immigration, we would not now have the serious political, social
and economic problems which owe their existence to the presence among us of vast numbers of
alien races who have little in common with the better class of American citizens. This element
of our population, while benefiting the employing class by keeping wages down, has at the same
time made it more difficult to bring about that intelligent political co-operation so much
needed to check the greed of organized wealth.

The limitation of governmental powers in the Constitution of the United States was not designed
to prevent all interference in business, but only such as was conceived to be harmful to the
dominant class. The nature of these limitations as well as the means of enforcing them indicate
their purpose. The provision relating to direct taxes is a good example. The framers of the
Constitution were desirous of preventing any use of the taxing power by the general government
that would be prejudicial to the interests of the well-to-do classes. This is the significance
of the provision that no direct taxes shall be laid unless in proportion to population.[182]
The only kind of a direct tax which the framers intended that the general government should
have power to levy was the poll tax which would demand as much from the poor man as from the
rich. This was indeed one of the reasons for opposing the ratification of the Constitution.

"Many specters," said Hamilton, "have been raised out of this power of internal taxation to
excite the apprehensions of the people: double sets of revenue officers, a duplication of their
burdens by double taxations, and the frightful forms of odious and oppressive poll-taxes, have
been played off with all the ingenious dexterity of political legerdemain....

"As little friendly as I am to the species of imposition [poll-taxes], I still feel a thorough
conviction that the power of having recourse to it ought to exist in the Federal government.
There are certain emergencies of nations, in which expedients, that in the ordinary state of
things ought to be forborne, become essential to the public weal. And the government, from
the possibility of such emergencies, ought ever to have the option of making use of them."[183]

It is interesting to observe that Hamilton's argument in defense of the power to levy poll-taxes
would have been much more effective if it had been urged in support of the power to levy a
direct tax laid in proportion to wealth. But this kind of a tax would, in the opinion of the
framers, have placed too heavy a burden upon the well-to-do. Hence they were willing to deprive
the general government of the power to levy it even at the risk of crippling it in some great
emergency when there might be urgent need of a large revenue.

This is not strange, however, when we remember that it was the property-owning class that framed
and secured the adoption of the Constitution. That they had their own interests in view when
they confined the general government practically to indirect taxes levied upon articles of
general consumption, and forbade direct taxes levied in proportion to wealth, seems highly
probable. It appears, then, that the recent decision of the United States Supreme Court declaring
the Federal Income Tax unconstitutional merely gave effect to the original spirit and purpose
of this provision.

The disposition to guard the interests of the property-holding class rather than to prevent
legislation for their advantage is also seen in the interpretation which has been given to
the provision forbidding the states to pass any laws impairing the obligation of contracts.
The framers of the Constitution probably did not have in mind the extended application which
the courts have since made of this limitation on the power of the states. Perhaps they intended
nothing more than that the states should be prevented from repudiating their just debts. But
whatever may have been the intention of the framers themselves, the reactionary movement in
which they were the recognized leaders, finally brought about a much broader and, from the
point of view of the capitalist class, more desirable interpretation of this provision.

There is evidence of a desire to limit the power of the states in this direction even before
the Constitutional Convention of 1787 assembled. The legislature of Pennsylvania in 1785 passed
a bill repealing an act of 1782 which granted a charter to the Bank of North America. James
Wilson, who is said to have suggested the above-mentioned clause of the Federal Constitution,
made an argument against the repeal of the charter, in which he claimed that the power, or
at least the right of the legislature, to modify or repeal did not apply to all kinds of legislation.
It could safely be exercised, he thought, in the case of "a law respecting the rights and properties
of all the citizens of the state."

"Very different," he says, "is the case with regard to a law, by which the state grants privileges
to a congregation or other society.... Still more different is the case with regard to a law
by which an estate is vested or confirmed in an individual: if, in this case, the legislature
may, at discretion, and without any reason assigned, divest or destroy his estate, then a person
seized of an estate in fee-simple, under legislative sanction, is, in truth, nothing more than
a solemn tenant at will....

"To receive the legislative stamp of stability and permanency, acts of incorporation are applied
for from the legislature. If these acts may be repealed without notice, without accusation,
without hearing, without proof, without forfeiture, where is the stamp of their stability?...
If the act for incorporating the subscribers to the Bank of North America shall be repealed
in this manner, a precedent will be established for repealing, in the same manner, every other
legislative charter in Pennsylvania.... Those acts of the state, which have hitherto been considered
as the sure anchors of privilege and of property, will become the sport of every varying gust
of politics, and will float wildly backwards and forwards on the irregular and impetuous tides
of party and faction."[184]

In 1810 the case of Fletcher v. Peck[185] was decided in the Supreme Court of the United States.
Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the court, said:

"The principle asserted is that one legislature is competent to repeal any act which a former
legislature was competent to pass; and that one legislature can not abridge the powers of a
succeeding legislature. The correctness of this principle, so far as respects general legislation,
can never be controverted. But if an act be done under a law, a succeeding legislature can
not undo it....

"When then a law is in the nature of a contract, when absolute rights have vested under that
contract, a repeal of the law can not devest those rights; ...

"It may well be doubted whether the nature of society and of government does not prescribe
some limits to the legislative power; ...

"It is, then, the unanimous opinion of the court, that, in this case, the estate having passed
into the hands of a purchaser for a valuable consideration, without notice, the state of Georgia
was restrained, either by general principles, which are common to our free institutions, or
by the particular provisions of the Constitution of the United States, from passing a law whereby
the estate of the plaintiff in the premises so purchased could be constitutionally and legally
impaired and rendered null and void."

It is evident from this opinion that the court would have been disposed at that time to declare
state laws impairing property rights null and void, even if there had been nothing in the Constitution
of the United States to justify the exercise of such a power. Justice Johnson, in a separate
opinion, said:

"I do not hesitate to declare that a state does not possess the power of revoking its own grants.
But I do it on a general principle, on the reason and nature of things: a principle which will
impose laws even on the Deity....

"I have thrown out these ideas that I may have it distinctly understood that my opinion on
this point is not founded on the provision in the Constitution of the United States, relative
to laws impairing the obligation of contracts."

It was contended in this case that the state of Georgia had the right to revoke the grant on
the ground that it was secured by corrupt means. This argument evidently failed to appeal to
the court. It was referred to by Justice Johnson who said "as to the idea that the grants of
a legislature may be void because the legislature are corrupt, it appears to me to be subject
to insuperable difficulties.... The acts of the supreme power of a country must be considered
pure...."

It is interesting to observe that the Federalist judges in the early years of our history under
the Constitution did not deem it necessary to find a constitutional ground for decisions of
this sort. But with the overthrow of the Federalist party and the progress of belief in popular
government, there is an evident disposition on the part of the court to extend the protection
of the Federal Constitution to all the powers which it claimed the right to exercise. Thus
in the Dartmouth College case, decided in 1819, the United States Supreme Court appears to
have abandoned its earlier position and to have recognized the Constitution as the source of
its power to annul state laws. But the Supreme Court, while permitting the creation or extension
of property rights, has prevented the subsequent abridgment of such rights, even when the interests
of the general public demanded it. The effect of this has been to make the corporations take
an active part in corrupting state politics. Special legislation was not prohibited. In fact,
it was a common way of creating property rights. If a bank, an insurance company, or a railway
corporation was organized, it was necessary to obtain a charter from the legislature which
defined its powers and privileges. The corporation came into existence by virtue of a special
act of the legislature and could exercise only such powers and enjoy only such rights and privileges
as that body saw fit to confer upon it. The legislature might refuse to grant a charter, but
having granted it, it became a vested right which could not be revoked. The charter thus granted
by the legislature was a special privilege. In many instances it was secured as a reward for
political services by favorites of the party machine, or through the corrupt expenditure of
money or the equally corrupt distribution of stock in the proposed corporation among those
who controlled legislation. Not only did this system invite corruption in the granting of such
charters, but it also created a motive for the further use of corrupt means to keep possible
competitors from securing like privileges. It was worth the while to spend money to secure
a valuable privilege if when once obtained the legislature could not revoke it. And it was
also worth the while to spend more money to keep dangerous competitors out of the field if
by so doing it could enjoy some of the benefits of monopoly. By thus holding that a privilege
granted to an individual or a private corporation by special act of the legislature was a contract
which could not be revoked by that body, the courts in their effort to protect property rights
opened the door which allowed corporation funds to be brought into our state legislatures early
in our history for purposes of corruption.

But little attention has been given as yet to this early species of corruption which in some
of the states at least assumed the proportions of a serious political evil.

"During the first half century banking in New York," says Horace White, "was an integral part
of the spoils of politics. Federalists would grant no charters to Republicans, and Republicans
none to Federalists. After a few banks had been established they united, regardless of politics,
to create a monopoly by preventing other persons from getting charters. When charters were
applied for and refused, the applicants began business on the common-law plan. Then, at the
instigation of the favored ones, the politicians passed a law to suppress all unchartered banks.
The latter went to Albany and bribed the legislature. In short, politics, monopoly, and bribery
constitute the key to banking in the early history of the state."[187]

The intervention of the courts which made the conditions above described possible, while ostensibly
limiting the power of the state legislature, in reality enlarged and extended it in the interest
of the capital-owning class. It gave to the state legislature a power which up to that time
it had not possessed--the power to grant rights and privileges of which the grantees could
not be deprived by subsequent legislation. Before the adoption of the Federal Constitution
no act of the legislature could permanently override the will of the qualified voters. It was
subject to modification or repeal at the hands of any succeeding legislature. The voters of
the state thus had what was in effect an indirect veto on all legislative acts--a power which
they might exercise through a subsequent legislature or constitutional convention. But with
the adoption of the Constitution of the United States the Federal courts were able to deprive
them of this power where it was most needed. This removed the only effective check on corruption
and class legislation, thus placing the people at the mercy of their state legislatures and
any private interests that might temporarily control them.

The power which the legislatures thus acquired to grant charters which could not be amended
or repealed made it necessary for the people to devise some new method of protecting themselves
against this abuse of legislative authority. The outcome of this movement to re-establish some
effective popular check on the legislature has taken the form in a majority of the states of
a constitutional amendment by which the right is reserved to amend or repeal all laws conferring
corporate powers. Such constitutional changes provide no remedy, however, for the evils resulting
from legislative grants made previous to their adoption. The granting of special charters is
now also prohibited in many states, the constitution requiring that all corporations shall
be formed under general laws. These constitutional changes may be regarded as in the interest
of the capitalist class as a whole, whose demand was for a broader and more liberal policy--one
which would extend the advantages of the corporate form of organization to all capitalists
in every line of business. But even our general corporation laws have been enacted too largely
in the interest of those who control our business undertakings and without due regard to the
rights of the general public.

A study of our political history shows that the attitude of the courts has been responsible
for much of our political immorality. By protecting the capitalist in the possession and enjoyment
of privileges unwisely and even corruptly granted, they have greatly strengthened the motive
for employing bribery and other corrupt means in securing the grant of special privileges.
If the courts had all along held that any proof of fraud or corruption in obtaining a franchise
or other legislative grant was sufficient to justify its revocation, the lobbyist, the bribe-giver,
and the "innocent purchaser" of rights and privileges stolen from the people, would have found
the traffic in legislative favors a precarious and much less profitable mode of acquiring wealth.

CHAPTER XIII

THE INFLUENCE OF DEMOCRACY UPON THE CONSTITUTION

The distinguishing feature of the Constitution, as shown in the preceding chapters of this
book, was the elaborate provisions which it contained for limiting the power of the majority.
The direction of its development, however, has in many respects been quite different from that
for which the more conservative of its framers hoped.[188] The checks upon democracy which
it contained were nevertheless so skilfully contrived and so effective that the progress of
the popular movement has been more seriously hampered and retarded here than in any other country
where the belief in majority rule has come to be widely accepted. In some important respects
the system as originally set up has yielded to the pressure of present-day tendencies in political
thought; but many of its features are at variance with what has come to be regarded as essential
in any well-organized democracy.

It is not so much in formal changes made in the Constitution as in the changes introduced through
interpretation and usage that we must look for the influence of nineteenth-century democracy.
In fact, the formal amendment of the Constitution, as shown in Chapter IV, is practically impossible.
But no scheme of government set up for eighteenth-century society could have survived throughout
the nineteenth and into the twentieth century without undergoing important modifications. No
century of which we have any knowledge has witnessed so much progress along nearly every line
of thought and activity. An industrial and social revolution has brought a new type of society
into existence and changed our point of view with reference to nearly every important economic
and political question. Our constitutional and legal system, however, has stubbornly resisted
the influence of this newer thought, although enough has been conceded to the believers in
majority rule from time to time to keep the system of checks from breaking down.

Some of the checks which the founders of our government established no longer exist except
in form. This is true of the electoral college through which the framers of the Constitution
hoped and expected to prevent the majority of the qualified voters from choosing the President.
In this case democracy has largely defeated the end of the framers, though the small states,
through their disproportionately large representation in the electoral college, exert an influence
in Presidential elections out of proportion to their population.

The most important change in the practical operation of the system has been accomplished indirectly
through the extension of the suffrage in the various states. Fortunately, the qualifications
of electors were not fixed by the Federal Constitution. If they had been, it is altogether
probable that the suffrage would have been much restricted, since the right to vote was at
that time limited to the minority. The state constitutions responded in time to the influence
of the democratic movement and manhood suffrage became general. This placed not only the various
state governments but also the President and the House of Representatives upon a basis which
was popular in theory if not in fact. Much remained and still remains to be done in the matter
of perfecting the party system and the various organs for formulating and expressing public
opinion with reference to political questions, before there will be any assurance that even
these branches of the general government will always represent public sentiment.

There is one serious defect in the method of choosing the President. The system makes possible
the election of an executive to whom a majority and even a large majority of the voters might
be bitterly opposed. From the point of view of the framers of the Constitution the choice of
a mere popular favorite was undesirable and even dangerous; but according to the view now generally
accepted the chief executive of the nation should represent those policies which have the support
of a majority of the people.

It is possible that the candidate receiving a majority of all the votes cast may be defeated,[189]
while it often happens that the successful candidate receives less than a majority of the popular
vote.[190] When three or more tickets are placed in the field, the candidate having a majority
in the electoral college may fall far short of a majority of the popular vote. This was the
case when Lincoln was elected President in 1860. There were four candidates for the Presidency,
and while Lincoln received a larger popular vote than any other one candidate, he received
less than the combined vote for either Douglas and Breckenridge, or Douglas and Bell. In fact,
he received less than two-fifths of the total popular vote.

It is easily seen that a system is fraught with grave danger, especially in times of bitter
sectional and party strife, which makes possible the election of a minority President. At such
times opposition to governmental policies is most likely to assume the form of active resistance
when a minority secures control of the government. In other words, a majority is more likely
to resist a minority than a minority is to resist a majority. This would be true especially
in a country where the people generally accept the principle of majority rule.

It can not be claimed that Lincoln was, or that the South regarded him as, the choice of a
majority of the people. A different system which would have precluded the election of a President
who did not have a clear majority of the popular vote might have done much toward discouraging
active resistance on the part of the Southern States.

No one, in fact, has stated the case against minority rule more clearly or forcefully than
Lincoln himself. Such minority was precisely the case of the Tories of our own Revolution."[191]

This was quoted in defense of the right of secession by Alexander H. Stephens in his "Constitutional
View of the Late War between the States."[192]

The chief remaining obstacles to popular legislation are the Senate and the Supreme Court.
Some means must be found to make these two branches of the government responsible to the majority
before the government as a whole can be depended upon to give prompt and effective expression
to public opinion. The Senate presents the most difficult problem for democracy to solve. The
present method of choosing senators is altogether unsatisfactory. It has resulted in making
the upper house of our Federal legislature representative of those special interests over which
there is urgent need of effective public control. It has also had the effect of subordinating
the making of laws in our state legislatures to that purely extraneous function--the election
of United States senators. The exercise of the latter function has done more than anything
else to confuse state politics by making it necessary for those interests that would control
the United States Senate to secure the nomination and election of such men to the state legislatures
as can be relied upon to choose senators who will not be too much in sympathy with anti-corporation
sentiments.

The Senate has fulfilled in larger measure than any other branch of the government the expectation
of the founders. It was intended to be representative of conservatism and wealth and a solid
and enduring bulwark against democracy. That it has accomplished this purpose of the framers
can scarcely be denied. But the political beliefs of the framers are not the generally accepted
political beliefs of to-day. It is immaterial to the people generally that the attitude of
the Senate on public questions is in line with the purpose for which that body was originally
established. The criticism of the Senate's policy expressed in the phrase "all brakes and no
steam"[193] indicates not so much a change in the character and influence of that body as in
the attitude of the people toward the checks which the Constitution imposed upon democracy.
Conservatism has always been characteristic of the United States Senate, which, as Sir Henry
Maine says, is "the one thoroughly successful institution [upper house] which has been established
since the tide of modern democracy began to run."[194] Measuring success by the degree of resistance
offered to the will of the majority, as this writer does, the conclusion is correct. This is
the standard of judgment which the framers of the Constitution would have applied, but it is
not the generally accepted standard according to which the success of that body would be judged
to-day. We have now come to accept the view that every organ of government must be approved
or condemned according as it furthers or thwarts the ends of democracy. Applying this test,
the conclusion is inevitable that the Senate as now constituted is out of harmony with present-day
political thought.

What, then, can be done to make that body an organ of democracy? There are three distinct evils
in the Senate as it is now organized. The first pertains to the irresponsibility of its members
due to their method of election and long term of office. But inasmuch as this could be remedied
only by a constitutional amendment, it is not likely that anything short of a revolutionary
public sentiment in favor of such change could compel the preliminary two-thirds majority in
that body which the Constitution makes necessary. A body made up of men who for the most part
realize that they owe their political advancement to a minority would naturally be loth to
support a change in the system which would place the election to membership in that body directly
in the hands of the people. It is improbable that any such reform can be accomplished at present.
Any such direct attack upon the system would under present conditions be almost certain to
fail. Some method of accomplishing this object must be employed which does not require the
co-operation of the Senate, and which, without any constitutional amendment, really deprives
the legislature of the power to select United States Senators as the electoral college has
been deprived of all power in the choice of President.

The second defect in the Senate is the equal representation of the states in that body. It
is not only absurd but manifestly unjust that a small state like Nevada should have as much
representation in the controlling branch of Congress as New York with more than one hundred
and seventy-one times as much population. A more inequitable distribution of representation
it would be difficult to imagine; yet this evil could not be removed even by constitutional
amendment, since this matter does not come within the scope of the amending power, unless the
state or states affected by such proposed change should all give their assent.

The third defect in the Senate is the extraordinary power which the Constitution has conferred
upon it. If it were a directly elected body whose members were apportioned among the states
according to population, the overshadowing influence of the Senate would not be a serious matter.
But, as shown in Chapter VI, that body controls jointly with the President the appointing and
the treaty-making power. Moreover, the latter power may be exercised with reference to many
things concerning which Congress has or could legislate. The Senate and the President may thus
repeal what Congress has enacted. We thus have the peculiar situation that a law enacted with
the concurrence of the House may be repealed without its consent, while a law which takes the
form of a treaty can not be repealed without the consent of the Senate.

Theoretically, the Constitution could be amended so as to diminish the power of the Senate,
but as a matter of fact no change in the Constitution would be more difficult to bring about.
Any proposal to reduce the power of the Senate would jeopardize the prestige and influence
of the smaller states no less than the proposal to deprive them of equal representation in
that body. The small states approach political equality with the large, just in proportion
as the influence of the Senate is a dominating factor in the policy of the government. Any
attack on this equality of representation would ally the small states together in defense of
this privilege, and make it impossible to obtain the assent of three-fourths of the states
to any such change.

There is still another respect in which this equality of representation in the Senate is unfortunate.
It tends to make it easier for corporation influences to dominate that body. This arises out
of the fact that it is more difficult and more expensive to control the election of senators
in a large than in a small state. This tends to make the small states a favorite field for
political activity on the part of those corporations which wish to secure or prevent Federal
legislation.

The Supreme Court is generally regarded as the most effective of all our constitutional checks
upon democracy. Still, if the Senate were once democratized, it would not be a difficult matter
to bring the Federal judiciary into line with the popular movement. In fact, the means employed
in England to subordinate the House of Lords to the Commons indicates the method which might
be employed here to subordinate the Supreme Court to Congress. The Ministry in England, virtually
appointed by and responsible to the majority in the House of Commons, secured control of the
prerogatives of the Crown, one of which was the right to appoint peers. No sooner did the House
of Commons come into possession of this power through a responsible Ministry than it realized
the possibility of making use of it to overcome opposition to their policies on the part of
the Lords. If the House of Lords did not yield to the House of Commons, the latter, through
its Cabinet, could create new peers in sufficient number to break down all resistance in that
body. The possession of that power by the Commons and the warning that it would be used if
necessary has been sufficient to ensure compliance on the part of the Lords. In a similar manner
Congress and the President could control the Supreme Court. The Constitution does not fix the
number of Supreme judges. This is a matter of detail which was left to Congress, which may
at any time provide for the addition of as many new judges to the Supreme Court as it may see
fit. Thus Congress, with the co-operation of the President, could control the policy of the
Supreme Court in exactly the same way and to the same extent that the House of Commons controls
the House of Lords.

That the Federalists who were in possession of our general government during the early years
of its history appreciated the advantage of controlling the policy of the Supreme Court was
pointed out in the chapter on the Federal judiciary. They accomplished their purpose, however,
by selecting for membership in that body, men whose political record was satisfactory and whose
views concerning judicial functions were in harmony with the general plan and purpose of the
Federalist party. In fact, the scheme of government which they set up contemplated no such
possibility as the democratization of the Executive or the Senate. If their expectation in
this regard had been fully realized, a judicious use of the appointing power would have been
all that was necessary to ensure a conservative court. Perhaps the framers of the Constitution
did not imagine that the power to increase the number of judges would ever be needed to enable
the President and Senate to secure the co-operation of the Supreme Court. At any rate, the
power given to Congress and the President to enlarge the membership of that body was not, in
the opinion of the framers, a power that could ever be employed against the conservative class,
since the radical element, it was believed, would never be able to control more than one branch
of the government, the House of Representatives. But, although it can not be determined whether
the Federalists had in mind the possibility of using this power to control the policy of the
court, it should be noted that, according to their view of the government, it might be used
by, but not against, the conservative class. Nor is it likely that they would have hesitated
to use this power had it been necessary to the success of their plan.

