What place were they to occupy in this maelstrom? Two ways were open--one, to dwell in the
dungeons and the horrors as poor among the poor; the other, to come as different beings--as
frequent visitors--from another world. Jim, with his whole-souled abandon, was for the former;
but Belle thought that all he would gain in that way would be more than offset by loss of touch
with the other world. At that time those two worlds were at war and she contended that his
place was to stand between the world of power and the world of need.

Their compromise was a little flat on the second floor of a house in Englewood, near enough
to the rolling Lake to afford a glimpse of it and convenient to the open stretch that is now
the famous Jackson Park. Here, with pretty rugs and curtains and pictures of horses and hills,
they lined the home nest and gathered the best thoughts of the lives they had lived. Here at
all times they could come assured of peace and rest.

Then came the meeting with the Board of Deacons, the preliminary visits to the field of work,
where the streets were full of misery and the slum life rampant. A few short blocks away was
another world--a world of palaces. Jim had never before seen massed misery; he had never before
seen profligate luxury, and the shock of contrast brought to him the sudden, overwhelming thought:
"These people don't want preaching, they want fair play. This is not a religious question,
it is an economic question." And in a flash: "The religious questions are economic questions,"
and all the seemingly wild utterances of old Jack Shives came back, like a sudden overwhelming
flood at the breaking of a dam. In an instant he was staggering among the ruins of all in religious
thought that he had held holy.

When he reached their apartment that evening he was in a distraught condition. For some time
he paced up and down. At last he said: "I must go out, Belle. I must walk alone." He spoke
with intense emotion. He longed for his mountain; there was but one thing like it near--the
mighty, moving lake. He put on his hat and strode away. Belle wanted to go with him, but he
had not asked her; her instinct also said "no"; besides, there was the physical impossibility
of walking with him when he went so striding. She sat down in the dusk to wonder--to wait.

He went to the lake shore. A heavy gale was blowing from the north and the lake was a wild
waste. It touched him as the sage plains did; and the rough wind helped him by driving away
all other folk afoot. Northward he went, feeling, but seeing nothing, of the rolling waters.
Jack Shives with his caustic words came back to mind: "It's their 'fore-God duty to steal if
their babies are hungry and they can't feed them any other way." Jim had never seen these things
before; now they were the whole world; he had seen nothing else these slumming days. His spiritual
ferment was such that, one by one, all the texts he had read came back as commentaries on this
new world of terror. He recalled the words of the Master: "Your Heavenly Father knoweth ye
have need of these things"; the fearful doom of those that "offend these little ones"; the
strict injunction to divide with the needy and care for the helpless; and again, the words,
"The Kingdom of heaven is within you"--not in a vague, unplaced world after death, but here,
now--and those who thought that, by placating the custodians of costly edifices, they were
laying up "treasure in heaven" were blindly going to destruction.

He strode in the night with his brain awhirl. In vain he sought for inspired words that would
reestablish the happy land beyond the grave that his teachers had ever pictured in set phrase.
Yet every word of the Master pointed the other way. "Here"; "now"; and "first within" was the
kingdom. And the hollowness of all the rich man's preachment--that the poor must suffer patiently
in hope of a reward beyond the grave--was more and more a hideous stratagem as in his mind
arose together two portrait types: the pinched, sullen, suffering face of the slums and the
bloated, evil face to be found on the boulevard.

The mockery of it horrified as the immensity of it all swamped him. He had no mind, no equipment,
for the subtleties of theology, and his head was a whirl of maddening contradictions, till
the memory of his mother's simple devotion came like a cooling drink in his fever: "Never mind
trying to reason it all out; you can't do it; no one can. Only ask what would the Master have
done?" Yes, that was easy. "Feed the hungry, clothe the naked, visit the sick"; and turning,
he wheeled homeward. The upheaval of all foundations seemed less dreadful. He could not expect
to reason it all out. It was enough to do as the Master would have done; and, whether it was
the feeding of the multitude, the healing of the lepers, the gentleness to the woman taken
in adultery, or the helping of the man who fell among thieves, there was no doctrine, no preaching--only
kindness shown as sympathy and physical help in their troubles, here and now. The words of
another childhood friend came back to him--those of Fighting Bill Kenna. He used to say, "I
don't care a dom what he is, if he's a good neighbour." Yet the neighbour in question was a
papist and they were kind and friendly every day of the year, except on those two set apart
by the devil to breed hate. Kenna was right where his heart led him and wrong where his creed
was guide.

Hartigan could not have told why he went alone on that walk. He only knew that in this crisis
something cried out in him to be alone with the simple big things. Why should the worldly-wise
companion he had chosen be left out? He didn't know; he only felt that he wanted no worldly
wisdom now. He wished to face the judgment day in his soul all alone. He would not have done
so a year before; but the Angel of Destiny had led on an upward trail and now he was brought
aside to the edge so that he might look over, and down, and know that he was climbing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Belle met him at the door. Her face was anxious. But his look reassured her. He took her on
his knees as one might lift a child and, sitting with his arm around her and gazing far away,
he said: "I had a landslide, Belle. All my church thought and training were swept away in a
moment. I was floundering, overwhelmed in the ruin, when I found a big, solid, immovable rock
on which I could build again. It was not the Church, it was my mother gave it to me. She used
to say: 'Don't try to reason it all out; no one can. Only try to do as the Master would do';
what that is we are not always sure; but one who followed Him has told us, 'Keep cool and kind
and you won't go far astray.'"

She looked into his face and saw something that she had never seen there before. The thought
that flashed through her mind was of Moses and how his countenance showed that a little while
before he had talked with God. She was awed by this new something he had taken on; and her
instinct hushed the query that arose within her. She only gripped his hand a little and looking
far away, said slowly: "There are times when He comes to talk with His own. I think he wanted
to walk with you alone by the lake and talk, as He one time walked with His men on the shore
of Galilee."

"My mind is clear now, Belle," he continued, "if these people want me to begin here merely
as orthodox pulpit preacher, I must give up the post. That is what I want to be, but this is
not the time or place for it. If, on the other hand, they will let me try to help those who
need help, and in the form in which they need it--well and good; I will do my best to understand
and meet the problems. But we must at once have a clear understanding."

She put her arms about him and after a little silence said: "I am with you to the finish, Jim.
I know you have received a message and have guidance as to how it should be delivered."

It was in the little flat, with sagebrush in the vases, that they thought it out, and reached
a solution that was the middle of the road. The first presentation of his new understanding
Jim made to the Board of Deacons two days later. He said:

"When a man is swimming for his life, he does not want to discuss politics. When a man's children
are hungry, he can't be expected to respect the law that prevents him from feeding them. When
a man has no property, you needn't look to him for a fine understanding of the laws of property.
When a man has no chance for lawful pleasures in life, he cannot be blamed much for taking
any kind that comes within reach. When a man's body is starved, cold, and tormented, he is
not going to bother about creeds that are supposed to guide his soul."

"All of which we freely admit," said Mr. Hopkins, with characteristic gravity. "The problems
that you name are very real and grave, but they are the problems of the nation. Rest assured
that every man of force in America to-day is aware of these things, and is doing all he can
to meet them squarely. Moreover, they are being met with success--slow, but continued success.

"Are you prepared to outline the plan by which you would contribute to the local solution of
these national problems?"

Yes, Hartigan had it there on paper. "I must approach these people through the things which
they know they need. They don't feel any need of a church, but they do feel the need of a comfortable
meeting place where the wholesome love of human society may be gratified. Their lives are devoid
of pleasure, except of the worst kinds. This is not choice, but is forced on them; there is
not a man, woman or child among them that does not--sometimes, at least--hunger for better
things--that would not enjoy the things that you enjoy, if they had the chance. I want harmless
pleasures in abundance put within their reach.

"Man is an animal before he is a soul; so I would begin by providing the things needful for
a body. All men glory in physical prowess; therefore I want a gymnasium, and with it, the natural
accompaniments of bath house and swimming tank. In short, I don't want a church; I want an
up-to-date People's Club, with a place for all and a welcome for all."

The deacons sat back and gazed at one another. "Well," said Deacon Starbuck, president of the
Stock Bank, "you surely have a clear-thinking business head among your gifts."

There was a distinct split in the views of the Board. The older men objected that this was
an organization for propagating the Gospel of Christ, not for solving economic problems, and
proved with many Scripture texts that we must "first of all seek the Kingdom of God and His
righteousness," after having secured which, the rest would follow.

But the younger men took Hartigan's view that it was no time to talk politics to a man when
he was swimming for his life. Fortunately, Hopkins was able to stave off action, pending a
fuller discussion, and brought that on at once.

"Let us understand. Is the club to be a charity, a benevolence, or a business proposition--that
is, a free gift, a partly supported institution, or a dollar-for-dollar bargain?"

The older men believed in charity. Jim opposed it as wrong in principle. As a business proposition
it was hopeless, at present; so he definitely labelled it a "benevolence."

"All right," said Hopkins, "now how much money do you want, and how long to make good?"

Again Jim referred to the paper in his hand.

"I want twenty-five thousand dollars cash to provide and equip a temporary building; I want
five thousand a year to run it, and I want one thousand dollars a year salary paid to my wife,
who is with me in all things, and will give all her time to it. I want three years to make
good, that is to make a noticeable reduction in drink and crime, which is the same thing, and
this we shall gauge by the police records. By that time I shall have fifteen hundred families
in touch with the club, paying dues to it. I shall stand or fall by the result. If I satisfy
you, I shall ask for a hundred-thousand-dollar building at the end of that time."

"You say nothing about street sermons," said a plaintive old gentleman with a long white beard
and the liquid eyes of an exhorter.

"No, not one. I don't want them. I can work better indoors."

The president said, "Well, Mr. Hartigan, perhaps it would be well for you to retire, in order
that we may freely discuss your plan. As you seem to have it on paper, would you mind leaving
the document?" Jim hesitated, glanced at it, then handed it to Mr. Hopkins. It was all in a
woman's hand.

In fifteen minutes, Jim was summoned to learn the decision. They accepted, not unanimously,
but they accepted his entire proposition, with the exception of one item; they would not pay
salary to or officially recognize his wife. It was a bitter pill, and Jim's eyes were brimming
with tears and his face flushed at the injustice when he went home to tell her. Poor little
woman! Her lips tightened a trifle, but she said: "Never mind, I'll work for it just the same.
I'm afraid they are still in the Dark Ages; but the light will come."

CHAPTER LII

The Boss

It had been a private dwelling, far out on the prairie once, but the hot, steady lava flow
of the great city had reached and split and swept around the little elevated patch of grimy
green with its eleven despairing trees. A wooden house it was, and in the very nature of it
a temporary shift; but the committee--Hopkins, Hartigan, and Belle--felt it worth looking into.

With the agent, these three went over it and discussed its possibilities and the cost. Ten
times in that brief talk did Hopkins find himself consulting Belle when, in the ordinary process,
he should have consulted Hartigan. Why? No man raises himself to the power and pitch that Hopkins
had attained, without a keen, discriminating knowledge of human nature. And he felt the fact
long before he admitted it even to himself: "Yes, he's a pair of giant wings, but she's the
tail, all right." And he was not displeased to find this original estimate justified by events.

The three years' lease was signed; and a bulletin board appeared on the bravest of all the
battered old trees at the front--the very battle front. A gnarled and twisted cedar it was,
and when a richer name than "Club" was sought for the venture, it was this old tree that linked
up memory with itself and the house was named, not "The People's Club," as at first intended,
but "Cedar Mountain House"--the word "mountain" being justified in the fact that the house
was on a prairie knoll at least a foot above the surrounding level.

The bulletin board displayed this to all passers-by:

    ---------------------------------------------------
    |              CEDAR MOUNTAIN HOUSE               |
    |                                                 |
    |                     Notice                      |
    |                                                 |
    |A Meeting to organize this Club will be held here|
    |on these premises Sunday afternoon next. Men and |
    |women who are interested are cordially invited.  |
    |                                                 |
    |                  REFRESHMENTS                   |
    ---------------------------------------------------

The Board of Deacons would have had a wrangle over each and every word of that notice. That
was why they never saw it till long afterward.

"Now what's going to happen?" said Hopkins.

"A few will come and act very shyly; but I've a notion the refreshments will bring them," was
Belle's guess.

"I am afraid we have omitted something of importance," said Jim. "We are invading a foreign
savage country without taking any count of the native chiefs."

"What's your idea?" said Hopkins, sharply.

"I mean, we have arranged matters with the real estate man, and the Church workers and the
police; but we haven't taken the trouble to look up the ward boss."

"We ignored the boss because we thought he was an enemy," said Hopkins.

"I'm not so sure about that," said Jim. "I've been talking with the police sergeant, who knows
him well. He says he's a queer mixture of prizefighter and politician. He can protect anything
he likes, and pretty nearly drive out anything he doesn't like. Isn't it worth while making
a bid for his support? It may please him to be asked."

"Who is he?"

"Oh, a saloon-keeper, Irish, ex-pugilist. His name is Michael Shay. He's easy to find," said Jim.

"Let's go now," said Hopkins. "But I'm afraid that this is where you drop out, Mrs. Hartigan."

So they went down to the headquarters of the boss. It was an ordinary Chicago saloon of less
than ordinary pretensions. The plate-glass and polished-mahogany era had not yet set in. The
barkeeper was packing the ice chest and a couple of "types" were getting their "reg'lar" as
the two strangers from another world entered. The build of Hartigan at once suggested plain-clothes
policeman, and the barkeeper eyed him suspiciously. Hopkins spoke first:

"Is the boss in?"

The barkeeper made a gesture, pointing to the back room.

"May we see him?"

"I s'pose so." And again, with a jerk of the thumb, the back room was indicated.

The two walked in. It was a small room, meanly furnished, with a square table in the centre.
Sitting by it were three men. Two were drinking beer--one a small, thin man; the other a red-faced
specimen with rotund outline. The third and biggest was smoking a briarwood pipe. He was a
heavily built man with immense shoulders square jaw, and low, wrinkled forehead; deep under
his bushy eyebrows were two close-set, twinkling gray eyes, which were turned on the visitors
with a hostile stare.

"Is Mr. Michael Shay here?" asked Hopkins.

"I'm Mike Shay," said the smoker, without rising or removing his pipe; "what do ye want?" There
was a sullen defiance in the tone that showed resentment at the different dress and manner
of the strangers.

"We have come to ask for your support for the club we are going to open in the old house down
the street."

"Support nuthin'," was the gracious reply.

Hopkins began to explain that this was not to be a rival show--no drinks would be sold; the
idea was merely to found a place of amusement for the people. The only effect on the boss was
to evoke a contemptuous "E-r-r-r!" and an injunction, in Chicago vernacular, to get out of
that as soon as they liked--or sooner. And, by way of punctuation, he turned to expectorate
copiously, but with imperfect precision at a box of sawdust which was littered with cigar stumps.
The interview was over--he wished them to understand that. He turned to his companions.

Hartigan felt that it was his chance now. He began: "See here, now, Michael Shay; you're an
Irishman and I'm an Irishman----"

"Oh, g'wan!" and Shay rose to walk out the back way. As he did so, Jim noticed fully, for the
first time, the huge shoulders, the strong, bowed legs, the gorilla-like arms; and the changing
memory of another day grew clear and definitely placed. There could be no doubt about it now;
this was bow-legged Mike, the teamster of seven years before.

At once, a different colour was given to Jim's thought and manner; no longer cautious, respectful,
doubtful, he began in his own more boisterous way, "Say, Mike. I have a different matter to
talk about now."

Mike stopped and stared.

Jim proceeded. "Were you ever at Links, Ontario?"

"Maybe I was, an' maybe I wasn't. What's that to you?"

"Well, do you remember licking a young fellow there for jerking the roof log out of the hotel
with your masting team of oxen?"

"Bejabers, I do that"; and Mike's eyes twinkled for the first time with a pleasant look.

"Well, Mike, I am that fellow; an' that's what ye gave me." Jim raised his chin and showed
an irregular scar.

"Well sure, that's the Gospel truth"; and Michael grinned. "By gosh, that's the time I had
to skip out of Chicago. A little election fuss ye understand," and he chuckled. "Set down.
What'll ye drink?" and the huge hand swung two chairs within reach.

"No," said Jim. "I'm not drinking to-day; but I want to tell you that I was only a kid when
you licked me. I swore that some day I'd meet you and have another try. Well, I've filled out
some in the last seven years, an' some day, when ye feel like it, we might put on the gloves
together."

Mike chuckled, "Now you're talking! What's the matter with right now?" and he pointed to a
room farther back. "But, say, ye ain't in training, are ye?"

"No; are you?"

"No."

"Then come on."

Mike opened the next door and led the way into a larger room, with the fixings of a regular
boxing academy, followed by his friends and one or two additional customers from the bar room.

Hopkins followed Hartigan, and was filled, apparently, with strange and mixed emotions. "Really,
Mr. Hartigan, as President of the Board of Deacons, I must protest against this whole shocking
procedure." Then, in a different tone: "But, as a man, by jinks! I'm going to see it through."

"Why not?" said Jim. "Sure it's simple and easy. In about three rounds, I'll get him or he'll
get me; then we'll shake hands and all be good friends ever after. It couldn't have happened
better."

Both men stripped to the waist, and the contrast was as great as the resemblance. Broad, equally
broad, and superbly muscled, the saloon-keeper was, if anything, heavier, but there was just
a suspicion of bloat over all his frame. Jim was clean built, statuesque--a Jason rather than
a Hermes. He was by six inches taller, but the other had just as long a reach. And, as the
officious patrons of the "pub" strapped on the gloves and made the usual preparation of wet
sponge and towel, it seemed in all respects an even match--in all respects but one; Jim was
twenty-odd, Mike was forty-odd.

The small man with a squeaky voice installed himself as timekeeper. He struck the gong, and
the boxers met. Jim always smiled and bared his teeth while boxing. Mike was one of the bull-dog
jaw; he kept his lips tight shut, and his small eyes twinkled with every appearance of rage.

On the first round, the great experience of the pugilist enabled him to land one or two heavy
jolts, and when the gong sounded the time-limit, Jim had got rather the worst of it.

The second round opened much like the first. Jim landed on Mike's under jaw more than once;
and Mike got in a body blow that was something to think about.

It was the third round that told the tale. What chance in a fight has forty-five against twenty-five?
The extra weight of the prize fighter was mere softness. His wind was gone; and half the time
had not passed before Jim landed under his left jaw the classic punch that Mike had one time
given him, and Mike went down like a sack of meal.

In five minutes, he was up and game, but the bout was over. The men shook hands, and Michael,
rapidly recovering his spirits, rumbled out of his deep chest: "Bejabers, it's the first time
in five years I've been knocked out--and it was done scientific. Say, Hartigan, ye can put
me down for a member of your club; or yer church or whatever the dom thing is an' I'll see
ye get whatever ye need in the way of protection; an' if ye want to sell any liquor on the
sly, that'll be all right. You count on Mike."

Then, with a singular clearing of hate and an access of good feeling--psychological reactions
which so often follow in the wake of a finish fight--the men all shook hands and parted in
excellent humour.

"By George!" said President Hopkins of the Board of Deacons, "I wouldn't have missed that for
a thousand dollars. It was perfectly bully--just what we wanted! I've heard of things like
this, but never really believed they happened. It's a new side of human nature for me. I wouldn't
have missed it for--no, not for five thousand dollars."

CHAPTER LIII

The First Meeting

The notice on the old tree had been up a week. By Thursday there had been no sign of response;
on Friday Jim had had it out with the boss; and Saturday morning the community seemed, in some
subtle way, to be greatly stirred by the coming event. Sunday afternoon there was a fairly
good assemblage of men and women in the large room of the rearranged old house. Bow-legged
Mike was not present; but the little man with the squeaky voice--commonly known as "Squeaks"--was
there to represent him, as he did in divers ways and on different occasions in the ward.

Hartigan and Hopkins were on the platform. Belle sat at a small table to act as recording secretary.
Hopkins opened the meeting by introducing Hartigan, who spoke as follows:

"My friends; we are assembled to discuss the formation of a club to provide for the residents
of this district such things as they need in the way of a convenient social meeting place and
whatever else is desirable in a club. We have not fully worked out our plan, but this is the
main idea: the club will be called Cedar Mountain House; it will be managed by five governors--two
of them appointed by the men who own the building lease; two of them elected by the people
who join; these four to elect a fifth as chairman of the board.

"The club is open to men and women twenty-one years of age; their families come in free on
their tickets. The dues are to be ten cents a week, or five dollars a year. This covers the
gymnasium, the lecture hall, the library, and the baths. Now we are ready for any questions."

A very fat woman, with a well-developed moustache, rose to claim the floor, and began: "I want
to know----"

Hopkins interrupted: "As the Chair is not acquainted with all present, will the speakers kindly
announce their names?"

The woman made a gesture of impatience--evidently every one should know her name: "I am Dr.
Mary Mudd, M. D., of Rush College, unmarried, Resident Physician of the Mudd Maternity Home
and the winner of the Mudd medal for an essay on misapplied medicine. There! Now I want to
know are women eligible for office in this club?"

To which Hopkins replied: "Since women are admitted to membership and pay dues, they are eligible
for all offices."

"Well, now, I'm with you," said Dr. Mudd; and she sat down.

Now arose a thin, dark man with a wild shock of hair, a black beard, a red tie and a general
appearance of having -ski at the end of his name. "I vant to know do you hev to be religious
your vay in dis cloob?"

"Kindly give your name," said the Chair.

"Veil, I'm Isaac Skystein; I'm a renovator of chentlemen's deteriorated vearing apparel, and
I vant to know of dis is a missionary trick, or do it be a cloob vere von can talk de freedom
of speech?"

"You do not have to belong to any Church," announced the Chairman.

"Vell; is it to be de religious talk?"

"Once a week, or maybe once a month, there will be a debate in this hall, at which entire freedom
of speech will be allowed."

"Dat mean I can get up an' say I doan take no stock in your dern religion? I vant de freedom
of de speeches, Ya!"

"It means that, at the proper time, each will have a chance to get up and say exactly what
he thinks within the decencies of debate."

"Vell, I tink I'll join for a vhile, anyvay."

Then a red-faced man introduced himself. "I'm Jack Hinks, teamster, and I want to know if any
drinks will be sold on the premises."

"No, sir; nothing intoxicating."

"I mean on the sly."

"No, sir: nothing, absolutely nothing."

"Well, Mike Shay tipped me off that it was to be 'wet' on the quiet."

"He made a mistake; this is to be a strictly teetotal club."

"That settles it. What's the good of a club where you can't have no fun? Good night!" and out
he went.

A lanky youth with unhealthy rings around his eyes and brown stains on his thumb asked if there
were to be boxing lessons and would Mr. Hartigan tell them about the scrap between himself
and Mike Shay. Mothers asked if a baby corral would be instituted, to set the mothers free
for a few hours each day. A tall, pale young man with a Southern coo, asked "whether Negroes
were to be admitted." The Chair dodged by saying: "That will be decided by the vote of the
majority."

A male person, with a beard and a tremulous voice, asked what the club's attitude would be
toward the Salvation Army. Before the Chair could reply, little Skystein jumped up and shouted:
"Mr. Chairman, ve don't vant 'em; dey's all feelin's an' no brains. You don't see no Chews
in de Salvation Army--it's too many emotions; de Chews got too much intellects, ve don't vant----"

"I rule you out of order!" shouted the Chair. "Sit down! Now for your question: The club will
welcome the Salvationists as individual members. It does not recognize them as a body."

A fat, unsuccessful-looking man, asked if it held out any chance for a job; and a red-headed
masculine person of foreign design rose to inquire whether the bathing would be compulsory.
A preliminary vote was overwhelmingly in favour of the five-dollar dues, though a small minority
thought it should be free; a group of four persons believed they should draw compensation for
coming.

The meeting answered every expectation; it fully introduced the club and its leaders; it demonstrated
the views of the possible members, and gave the Board of Deacons a new light on human nature.
All the business of definite organization was deferred to the next meeting, to take place one
week later.

CHAPTER LIV

The Formation of the Club

Foundation Sunday came, and with it a respectable crowd at the House. There were some who had
brought babies--which was unfortunate, but unavoidable--and there were one or two men too hilarious
for good manners; but the crowd was, on the whole, good-natured and desirable.

Mike Shay was not there, although Jim had tried to get him; but Mike had a curious diffidence
about appearing in public. All his power was underground, and all his methods behind the scenes.
Squeaks was there to keep an eye on things, and his little bleary, ferret eyes watched each
person and detail with cunning, if not with discernment.

It was made perfectly clear that only members in good standing had votes.

"Vell, vot dot mean, dot good at stannin'? Don't ve vote settin' down?" demanded Skystein.

"It means members whose dues are fully paid, and who are not under indictment for serious breach
of rules."

"I want to pay one year's dues for myself and Mr. Michael Shay," said Squeaks; and he walked
to the secretary and paid ten dollars. This indorsement by the boss produced immediate results.

"I'll take a year's membership," said a big, coarse, red-faced man. And he rolled up the aisle
to deposit his five dollars, giving his name as Bud Towler. Jim remembered him as the third
person in the back room the day he met Michael Shay. He had not seen him since.

So many more came up now, mostly to pay a month's dues, which was the minimum, that Belle was
worked hard and other business was stopped.

Then, when all who wished to pay and register had done so, the voice of Squeaks was heard:
"I have here a list of names that I want to propose for charter membership," and he read off
a list of twenty-five men, none of them present. Bud Towler got up and seconded the lot; the
Chair was asked to put the names to immediate vote, as it was a charter meeting; all were carried,
and Squeaks came forward and paid twenty-five dollars dues for the lot to cover the next ten
weeks, that is, to the end of a year.

Belle whispered to Hopkins as Squeaks retired. The Chair nodded, rose and explained. "In drawing
up our constitution, we deemed it best, in the interests of democracy, to do all voting by
ballot and to exclude all proxies."

"Dot's right, dot's all right!" shouted Skystein.

"Mr. Chairman, I protest," came the wire-like voice of Squeaks; this measure, would, naturally,
mean the disfranchisement of every man whose business happened to keep him away at election
time. How much more reasonable it would be for him to empower some trusted friend to represent
him and his views, etc., etc.

On the matter of the ballot he was not so strong, but he did think "that the manly, straightforward
way was for a voter to announce his vote and not be ashamed of his principles. Of course, he
was aware that there was much to be said on the other side, but he was in favour of proxies
and open voting."

"So am I," shouted Towler. "We ain't got no right to rob a man of his vote because he happens
to be a night watchman."

"Ah, vat's de matter mit ye?" said Skystein. "Effery-body knows you an' Squeaks is in cahoots
to run de hull push cart."

There was a good chance of a row; but Hopkins explained that voting by mail was a different
thing from voting by proxy, and every member in good standing would get the chance to vote
by mail on important matters, when he could not be present.

No one could long have been in that meeting without realizing that it was a veritable microcosm--a
little world in which were all the struggling, rival elements, the good and evil forces of
the big world. Not a problem that was tormenting the country but was represented in vital strength
in that club group. It was full of lessons and grave responsibilities.

They were now ready for the elections. Squeaks rose and said: "Since the owners of the lease
are to nominate two of the four governors, it would clear things up if their nominations were
made first and the club elections afterward."

This at once confronted Hopkins with a problem. He had a free hand, but he was puzzled, because
while it was understood that he was to be president and Hartigan the active governor on the
spot, they had not secured a third man who, as governor, could be counted on for a continued
whole-souled support. It was Dr. Mary Mudd that let the daylight into this problem by rising
to say:

"Mr. Chairman, I understand we are free to elect a woman to the board of governors as well
as to any other office."

Hopkins had not thought of that, but the broad principle had been established and he replied "Yes."

"Very good," said Dr. Mudd, "now there's a chance for common sense as well as decency."

In a flash, Hopkins got the answer to his own problem. Belle Hartigan had steadily been winning
his appreciation. His admiration for her clear-headedness and business training was increased
at each meeting. He knew now pretty well how often her brain was behind Jim's actions. In any
event, the trial would be for only two and one-half months, when elections were to take place
for the new year. He bent toward her: "Will you be one of the appointed governors for the rest
of the year?"

"Yes."

Hopkins rose and announced that the owners of the lease appointed Mr. and Mrs. Hartigan as
the two governors to represent them.

This was warmly applauded, especially by the women--led by Dr. Mudd. There followed some sharp
electioneering and the members elected Squeaks and Skystein to represent them. Dr. Mudd, who
had been nominated, demanded a recount of the votes, but the election was sustained. The four
governors then met and within five minutes agreed on Hopkins for president. So the board was
formed and for good or ill, the club was launched--in the slum, of the slum, and for the slum--but
with a long, strong arm from the other world; an outside thing, but meant in kindly help.

BOOK V

THE CALL OF THE MOUNTAIN

CHAPTER LV

In the Absence of Belle

Every citizen of South Chicago remembers the work of the Cedar Mountain House; how it grew
and prospered, and how the old building became too small and an annex across the street was
called for. How its greatest strength lay in the monthly free discussion of any subject approved
in advance by the governors. How the rival parties of Skystein and Squeaks alternately pulled
and pushed each other about. How musical genius was discovered in abundance and an orchestra
formed as well as a monthly minstrel show. How pool tables were introduced and a restaurant
started. How the movement to introduce beer was defeated by a small majority. How, after due
discussion, they adopted some seemingly hard policies, such as the exclusion of all Negroes
and Chinamen. How Squeaks led an abortive attempt to disqualify all Jews. How the gymnasium
became the focal centre of all the boys in the neighbourhood. How they organized a strong-arm
squad of a dozen club members who acted as police, and without offense, because they were of
themselves. At the end of the first six months, the House had more than justified its existence.
It had nearly four hundred members and was doing work that in a higher state of civilization
would be the proper care of the government.

It would have been hard to say who was the chief. Belle had been the planner and executor and
now was not only a governor, but secretary and head of the women's department, on a fair business
basis. But the growth of power in Jim was obvious. It had all been very new to his ways of
thinking and, after all, Links and Chicago have little in common. Belle had a business training
that was essential, and her quick judgment helped at every turn for it is a fact that second-class
judgment right now is better than first-class judgment to-morrow. The full measure of her helpfulness
in bearing the burdens was made transparently clear by a sudden crisis in their affairs. A
telegram from Cedar Mountain arrived for Belle.

     Mother very ill. Come at once--FATHER.

It was impossible for both to go, so Belle set off alone for Cedar Mountain, leaving Jim in
charge of the flock at the Mountain House. Alone--he didn't think it possible to feel alone
in such a crowd. His work was doubled in the absence of Belle, although Dr. Mary Mudd gave
not a little help in the mothers' department. It was a good thing for Jim to find out just
how much he owed to his wife. There was a continuous stream of callers at the office with requests
or complaints. These had all been met by Belle. She had an even poise, a gentle consideration
for all, and certain helpful rules that reduced the strain, such as exact hours for work, one
call at a time, and written complaints only. Jim's anxiety to placate and smooth out led him
to undertake too much, and the result was a deluge of small matters of which he had previously
known nothing. The exasperating accumulation of annoyances and attacks, in spite of all his
best and kindest endeavours, invoked a new light.

"Oh, if Belle were only here!" was his repeated thought. "I don't know how she manages, but
she does. It's mighty strange how few of these annoyances came up when she was in the office."
He began to realize more and more her ability. "She has more judgment, more tact than any of
us; she has been meeting these things all along, and saving me from them by settling them without
me. Yes, she's wiser than I am in such matters."

So he wrote her of his troubles. He detailed many cases in point and added: "We miss you awfully;
every one in the House complains. I haven't got your cleverness and tact. It seems as if I
made enemies every time I tried to make friends. Come back as soon as you can." And if the
truth must be told there was a little flush of pleasure and triumph in her soul. "Now he knows
what I have known so long." And who shall blame her for gloating a little over the deacons
who, in the beginning, were unwilling to recognize her? But she had to send a discouraging
reply. For the angel of destiny said: "No, it is now time for him to walk alone" and the telegram
ran:

     Cannot come; Mother is very low.

After the first shock of disappointment he braced up, and, like a man who has been retreating
and who knows in his heart that he never meant to make a stand as long as some one else could
be depended on, he upbraided himself and turned to face the fight. "There is a way of doing
it all, and I can do it." And in the resolve to win he found new strength. In many small, but
puzzling matters, he got guidance in the practical sayings of men like Lincoln and Grant: "Be
sure you are right, then go ahead"; "Every one has some rights"; "In case of doubt, go the
gentle way"; "Never hunt for trouble." These were samples of the homely wisdom that helped
him and proved that the old proverbs are old wisdom in shape for new use.

One man came to complain that a member had been drunk and disorderly at a certain other place
the night before. A year ago, Jim would have said that it was a disgrace and that he would
make a thorough investigation, which would have meant assuming a special guardianship of each
and every member all the time. Wiser now, he said, "Since it was not on our premises, we have
no knowledge of the matter." On the other hand, it was a serious affair when a member brought
in a bottle of strong drink and treated a number of weak friends until there was a wild orgy
going on in one of the rooms, in spite of official protests from those in charge. This was
clearly high treason; and repressing a disposition to gloss it over, Hartigan expelled the
principal and suspended the seconds for long periods.

During a boyish contest in the gymnasium, a man somewhat in liquor, shouted out a string of
oaths at the youngsters. Jim rebuked him quietly for using such language there, whereupon the
man turned upon him with a coarse insult and, misunderstanding the Preacher's gentleness, struck
him a vicious blow, which Jim only partly warded off. "If you do that again, we may have to
put you out," said Jim, inwardly boiling under the double insult. Fortunately, the man's friends
interfered now and got the fellow away. For this Jim was most thankful. Afterward, he rejoiced
still more that he had restrained himself; and he knew Belle would flush with pride at this
victory over self, this proof of a growing self-control.

Another week went by and again came word that Belle could not return for perhaps ten days at
the earliest. A dozen broils that Jim had been postponing for Belle to arbitrate had now to
be considered. Dr. Mary Mudd was the leader of an indignant party of women to complain that
though the men were not more in numbers than the women they had appropriated sixty out of the
one hundred coat hangers.

Rippe, the tailor, was there to complain that Dr. Mary Mudd always walked up the middle of
the stairs, unlawfully delaying the traffic, instead of keeping the proper right side. With
his outstretched arms, he illustrated the formidable nature of the barrier. Dr. Mudd retorted
that said Rippe had repeatedly smoked in the ladies' room, etc., etc. But these were small
matters easily adjusted. Two, much more serious, came on him in one day.

First, he yielded to the temptation of having a beautiful banner hung on the wall, because
it was contributed and very decorative. It bore a legend, "No popery." This was much in line
with his private views, but it made a great stir and cost them a score of members, as well
as incurring the dislike of Father O'Hara, hitherto friendly. His second blunder was to allow
the cook in the restaurant to put scraps of pork in the soup, thereby raising a veritable storm
among the many keen debaters of the kosher kind, and causing the resignation of Skystein from
the board--temporarily at least.

It would have been much to Jim's taste to have an open war with Father O'Hara and his flock.
His Ulster blood was ready for just such a row. And in his heart he believed pork and beans
quite the best of foods. But his opinions were not law; he had been learning many things. Others
had rights; and he won the disaffected back, one by one, by recognizing the justice of their
claims and by making kindly personal calls on each of them.

Thus Jim Hartigan got a new knowledge of his own endowment and discovered unsuspected powers.
He had held his peace and triumphed in a number of trying situations that two or three years
before would have ended in an unprofitable brawl. He had controlled his temper, that was a
step forward and he was learning to control those about him as well as manage an organization.
He had begun to realize his prejudices and to learn to respect the beliefs of others even when
he thought them wrong. The memory of Father Cyprian and the Sioux boy had helped him to deal
kindly and respectfully with Skystein and Father O'Hara.

Strange to say, it was a travelling Hindu who supplied him with the biggest, broadest thought
of all. This swarthy scholar was deeply imbued with the New Buddhism of Rammohan Roy and, when
asked for his opinion of some Romanist practices, he remarked softly, but evasively, "My religion
teaches me that if any man do anything sincerely, believing that thereby he is worshipping
God, he is worshipping God and his action must be treated with respect, so long as he is not
infringing the rights of others."

Jim took a long walk by the lake that day and turned over and over that saying of the Hindu
in the library. The thing had surprised him--first, because of the perfect English in the mouth
of a foreigner, and secondly, because of the breadth and tolerance of the thought. He wondered
how he could ever have believed himself open-minded or fair when he had been so miserably narrow
in all his ideas. Where was he headed? All his early days he had been taught to waste effort
on scorning the ceremonials great and small of Jews, Catholics, yes, of Baptists even; and
now the heathen--to whom he had once thought of going as a missionary--had come to Chicago
and shown him the true faith.

Striding at top speed, he passed a great pile of lumber and sawdust. The fresh smell of the
wet wood brought back Links--and his mother, and a sense of happiness, for he had given up
"trying to reason it all out." He was no longer sure, as he once was, that he had omniscience
for his guide. Indeed he was sure only of this, that the kindest way is the only way that is safe.

There was daylight dawning in his heart, and yet, across that dawn there was a cloud which
grew momentarily more black, more threatening. Paradoxical as it seemed, Jim was intensely
unhappy over the abandonment of the ministerial career. The enduring force of his word as a
man was only another evidence of the authentic character of that deep emotional outburst which
had pledged him openly to the service of Christ. The work at the Cedar Mountain House for a
while satisfied the evangelical hunger of his ardent soul. It was good, it was successful,
it was increasing in scope; but of its nature it could never be more than secular; it was social
work in its best form--that was all. The work of which he dreamed, and to which he had consecrated
his life was the preaching of the Gospel, and, as the months passed, an unrest--the like of
which he had hardly known--took possession of him. These last weeks of Belle's absence had
brought on one of his periodic soul-searchings and the gloom of it was as thick as a fog when
the mail brought word of Belle's return. As he sat with her letter in his hand his mind went
back to the hills and the free days and he longed to go back--to get away from the ponderous
stolidity of this pavement world.

He met her at the station and her joyousness was as a shock to him. And yet, how hungry he
was for every least word of that lost life.

"Oh, Jim, it was glorious to ride again, to smell the leather and the sagebrush. I just loved
the alkali and the very ticks on the sagebrush. I didn't know how they could stir one's heart."

His eye glowed, his breath came fast, his nostrils dilated and, as Belle looked, it seemed
to her that her simple words had struck far deeper than she meant.

"And the horses, which did you ride?" he queried. "How is Blazing Star? Are they going to race
at Fort Ryan this year? And the Bylow boys, and the Mountain? Thank God, men may come and go,
but Cedar Mountain will stand forever." He talked as one who has long kept still--as one whose
thoughts long pent have dared at length to break forth.

And Belle, as she listened, saw a light. "He is far from forgetting the life of the Hills,"
she said to herself as she watched him. "He is keener than ever. All this steadfast devotion
to club work is the devotion of duty. Now I know the meaning of those long vigils, those walks
by the lake in the rain--of his preoccupation. His heart is in Cedar Mountain." And she honoured
him all the more for that he had never spoken a word of the secret longing.

CHAPTER LVI

The Defection of Squeaks

Michael Shay had come to the club in person once or twice, but did not desire to be conspicuous.
It was clear now that the club was not to be the political weapon at first suspected. The boss
had another organization through which to hold and make felt his power; but the fact that it
pleased a number of his voters was enough to insure his support.

Squeaks, however, was quite conspicuous and present on all important occasions; it was generally
supposed that he was there in the interests of Shay, but that was not clearly proven. It was
obvious that the club was not in any way lined up for or against Shay. It was, however, believed
by Belle that Squeaks was there in the interests of Squeaks and none other.

This strange, small person had a small, strange history--so far as it was known. A lawyer,
he had been disbarred for disreputable practice, and was now a hanger-on of the boss, a shrewd
person, quite purchasable. He was convinced that he was destined to be a great boss, and satisfied
that Cedar Mountain House would help his plans--which lay in the direction of the legislature--hence
he sought to identify himself with it. For the present, also, he stuck to Shay.

The approved boss system of the time rested on a regiment of absolutely obedient voters, who
voted not once, but many times in as many different wards as needed. They were thoroughly organized,
and part of their purpose was to terrorize independent voters, or even "remove" men who developed
power or courage enough to oppose them; so the "reliable squad" was important. As their ranks
contained many convicts or men qualified for life terms, they were a dangerous and desperate
lot. They responded at once and cheerfully to any duty call, and one "removal" per night would
have probably been less than average for a boss-ruled city in those days. For this they received
protection; that is, the police and the Courts were so completely in the scheme that it was
sufficient, on the arrest of a "reliable," if the boss sent word to the judge or State's attorney
"to be keerful" as this was "one of our boys." Promptly a flaw would be discovered in the indictment
and the case dropped.

The boss who derives power from such a machine must ever look out for the appearance of a rival,
hence Shay's early watchfulness of the club; but that gave place to a friendly indifference.
He was a man superior to his class, in some respects; for, though brutal and masterful on occasion,
it was said that he never "removed" a rival. At most, he had applied pressure that resulted
in their discreetly withdrawing. And he cared little for money. Most bosses are after either
money or power or both. Shay loved power. The revenues he might have made out of tribute from
those protected were not well developed, and most of what he received he disbursed in generous
gifts to those in his ward who needed help. It was said that no man ever went hungry from Mike
Shay's door, which was perfectly true; and the reward that he loved above all things was to
be pointed out on the street or in the car as "Mike Shay." To overhear some one say, "That's
Michael Shay, the big Boss of the South Ward," meant more to him a thousand fold than any decoration
in the gift of the greatest of Old-World potentates.

Hartigan learned that he could go to Shay at any time for a reasonable contribution, after
having made it clear that it was for some one in distress--not for a church. The only return
Shay ever asked was that Jim come sometimes and put on the gloves with him in a friendly round.
Most of Shay's legal finesse was done through Squeaks. That small, but active person was on
the boards of at least twenty-five popular organizations, and it was understood that he was
there to represent the boss. Extraordinary evidence of some one's pull was shown when one day
Squeaks was elevated to the Bench. It was only as a police magistrate, but he was now Judge
Squeaks, with larger powers than were by law provided, and he began to "dig himself in," entrench
himself, make his position good with other powers, in anticipation of the inevitable conflict
with Boss Shay. It became largely a line-up of political parties; Squeaks had made a deal with
the party in power at Springfield, and gave excellent guarantees of substantial support--both
electoral and financial--before the keen-eyed myrmidons of Shay brought to the boss the news
that Squeaks had turned traitor.

Then the war was on; not openly, for Squeaks had scores of documents that would, before any
impartial jury, have convicted Shay of manipulating election returns, intimidating voters,
and receiving blackmail. It was important to get possession of these documents before they
could be used. While the present party held power in State politics, there would be no chance
for Shay to escape. There were two possibilities, however; one, that the election close at
hand might reverse the sympathies of those in power; the other, that Squeaks might find it
unwise to use the weapon in his hands.

Now was the Cedar Mountain House in peril, for Shay's support was essential. At a word from
him, the police might call the club a disorderly house, and order it shut up. The fact that
Squeaks was a governor strengthened the probability of drastic action. On the other hand, Squeaks
as police magistrate, could restrain the police for a time or discover flaws in as many indictments
as were brought up. The District Court could, of course, issue a warrant over the head of the
police magistrate; but the Court of Appeals was friendly to Squeaks and would certainly quash
the warrant; so that, for the time being the many unpleasant possibilities simply balanced
each other, and the club went on in a sort of sulphurous calm like that before a storm.

Then came an exciting day at the club. By an unusual chance both Shay and Squeaks met there
and the inevitable clash came. Angry words passed and Shay shouted: "Ye dirty little sneak,
I'll fix ye yet!" Squeaks, cool and sarcastic, said: "Why don't ye do it now?" Shay rushed
at him with a vigorous threat, and would have done him grievous bodily injury but for the interference
of Hartigan and others. Shay waited at the gate for Squeaks, but the Judge slipped out the
back way and disappeared.

It was Bud Towler who called on the Judge with a letter from Boss Shay, demanding the return
of certain personal papers and authorizing said Bud to receive them. To which Judge Squeaks
replied: "He better come for them himself. He knows where I live. I'll be home every night
this week."

And thither that night with two friends went Shay. It was a very simple lodging. These men
habitually avoid display. The janitor knew all too well who Shay was.

"Is Squeaks at home?"

"Yes, I believe so."

"I'm going up to see him, and if I lay him over my knee and spank him till he squeals, ye needn't
worry; it's nothing." Then up went Shay, while his friends stayed below, one at the front of
the house and the other in the lane that commanded the back.

The trembling janitor heard the heavy foot go up the wooden stairs; he heard a voice, then
a crash as of a door forced open, then heavy steps and a pistol shot. A window was opened behind
the house, and something was thumped down into the back yard. A little later, the boss came
hurriedly down the stairs. The timid janitor and his trembling wife saw the big man step out
with a bundle under his arm. Then all was still.

After twenty minutes of stupefaction, they began to realize that they should go up to the Judge's
room. They mounted the stairs together, carrying a lamp. The door had, evidently, been forced.
The room was in some disorder; the drawers of the desk were open, and papers scattered about.
On one or two of the papers was fresh blood. The window was closed, but not fastened; the end
of the curtain under it seemed to give proof that it had recently been opened. On the sill
was more fresh blood.

There was no sign of the Judge.

As they gazed about in horror, they heard a noise in the back yard and looking out saw, very
dimly, two men carrying off a heavy object, they lifted it over the back fence and then followed,
to disappear.

Schmidt, the janitor, was terror-stricken. Evidently, the Judge had been murdered and his body
was now being made away with. What was to be done? If he interfered, the murderers would wreak
their vengeance on him; if he refrained, he would be blamed for the murder or at least for
complicity.

"I tink, Johann, dere's only one ting, and dat is go straight an' tell de police," said his
wife. As they stood, they heard a light foot on the stairs. Their hearts stood still, but they
peered out to see a woman in a gray cloak step into the street, and they breathed more freely.
Now they rushed to the station house and told their tale in tears and trembling.

The Police Captain was scornful and indifferent. Had there been but one witness, he might have
ordered him away; but two witnesses, intensely in earnest, made some impression. He sent an
inspector around to see. That official came back to report the truth of the statement made
by the Schmidts, that the Judge's room was empty, upset, and had some blood stains; but he
attached little importance to the matter. He had, however, locked up and sealed the door, pending
examination.

Next morning, there was an attempt to hush the matter up, but a reporter appeared in the interests
of a big paper, and by a clever combination of veiled threats and promises of support, got
permission to see the room. The reporterial instinct and the detective instinct are close kin,
and the newspaper published some most promising clues: The Judge was visited at midnight by
a man whom he had robbed and who had threatened to kill him; a broken door, papers stolen,
a scuffle, traces of human blood (the microscope said so) in several places, blood on the window
sill, a heavy something thrown out of the window and carried off by two men, blood on the back
fence, and no trace of the Judge.

It was a strong case, and any attempt to gloss it over was rendered impossible by the illustrated
broadside with which the newspaper startled the public.

CHAPTER LVII

The Trial

All Chicago remembers the trial of Michael Shay. It filled the papers for a month; it filled
folk's minds and mouths for two. Many a worse murder had been quietly buried and forgotten,
but this was too conspicuous. The boss, facing a decline of his power, had undoubtedly murdered
the man he had begun to fear, and the parties in control of all the machinery of justice were
against the accused.

The case was thoroughly threshed out. Shay had openly threatened the life of Squeaks; he had
tried before to do him hurt; had gone with two men to Squeaks's lodgings; had warned Schmidt
that there was going to be "a little fuss"; had broken open the door and got certain papers--his
own property, undoubtedly, but now splashed with blood; a shot had been heard--a heavy something
thrown from the back window and then carried off by two men; blood on the floor, the sill and
the back fence; and the Judge had disappeared from the face of the earth. The case was clear,
the jury retired, but quickly brought in a verdict of guilty, although at every point there
was nothing but circumstantial evidence.

Jim Hartigan was one of the first friends to call on Shay after his arrest, and Belle came
soon after. They heard his story, which was simple and straight: Squeaks was holding the papers
which would be, at least, damaging to Shay's property and reputation; he got them in confidence
and then defied Shay to come and take them. Shay decided it would be well to take two witnesses
and went, as planned, to Squeaks's apartments. Finding the door locked and believing that Squeaks
was inside, he forced it open; the room was dark and no one was there. He lighted the gas and
rummaged through the desk for the papers that belonged to him, paying no attention to any others.
He saw blood on some of the papers, but didn't know where it came from. As he was coming away,
he heard a pistol shot, either upstairs or outside, he didn't know which. He knew nothing about
anything thrown from the window. He got his own property and came away.

Although every particle of evidence adduced by the prosecuting attorney was circumstantial,
it was very complete. Some juries would have felt reasonable doubt, but no one could get over
the facts that Shay had threatened Squeaks's life and that Squeaks had disappeared after a
visit from Shay which left traces of blood in Squeaks's apartment. The trial over, the verdict
of guilty rendered, Shay was asked if he could offer any reason why he should not be condemned.
He rose and said: "Only that I didn't do it. I never saw him from that time in the club a week
before."

Then the judge pronounced the awful words: "...Hanged by the neck till you are dead." Shay
sat stunned for a minute, then, when the jailor tapped his shoulder, rose and walked silently
forth to the cell of the doomed.

It is the hour of trial that sifts out your friends. There were two at least who followed every
move in that crowded court room--Hartigan and his wife. They had learned that the crude, brutal
exterior of the prizefighter held a heart that was warm and true. They had learned that they
could go to him with certainty of success when they wanted help for some struggling man or
woman in their ward. They knew that he would not drive a bargain for his help, nor plaster
his gift with religious conditions. It was enough for him to know that a fellow-being was in
need and that he had the power to help him. Shay was a product of submergence and evil system;
he was wrong in his theories, wrong in his methods, wrong in his life; but his was a big, strong
spirit--ever kind. And out of the strange beginnings there had grown a silent but real friendship
between the Hartigans and himself.

On the black day of the verdict and the sentence, Belle and Jim were sadly sitting at home.
"Jim," she said, "I know he didn't do it; his story is so simple and sound. It's easy to get
human blood if you have a friend in the hospital; he is innocent. We know that Squeaks could
easily have access to a room upstairs; that bundle may have been thrown out from the window
merely as a part of a plot. Everything is against Shay now because he is in wrong with the
party; but, surely, there is something we can do."

"His attorney asked for an appeal, but I am afraid it won't be entertained; there is no new
evidence--no reason for delay that they can see or wish to see."

"That attorney has behaved very suspiciously, I think. Don't you think the governor might intervene
with at least a commutation?" she suggested.

"The governor! His worst enemy," said Jim. "The governor's been after him for years."

Hope seemed gone. They sat in silence; then she said: "Pray, Jim; maybe light will come." And
together they prayed that the God of justice and mercy would send his light down among them
and guide them in this awful time. It was a short and simple prayer, followed by a long silence.

Belle spoke: "There is only one thing that can be done; that is find Squeaks. I know he is
living somewhere yet, gloating probably over the success of his plan to get rid of Shay. I
know he is alive, and we must find him. We have one month to do it, Jim. We must find him."

Jim shook his head. "We've tried hard enough already. We've examined every corpse taken out
of the river or exposed at the morgue."

"Well; doesn't that help to prove that he is alive?"

"We've advertised and notified every police station in the country," Jim continued.

"They don't want to find him, Jim; they're on the other side."

"I don't know what else to do."

"Jim, I've read enough and seen enough of human nature to know that, if Squeaks is alive, he's
not hiding in California or Florida or London; he's right here in South Ward where he can watch
things. It's my belief, Jim, that he's been in the court room watching the trial."

Jim shook his head; but she went on. "This much I'm sure; he would hang around his former haunts,
and we should leave nothing undone to find him."

They went first to Shay's attorney, but he dismissed the idea as chimerical, so they dropped
him from their plans. Together they set to work, with little hope indeed, but it was at least
better to be up and doing. Judge Squeaks's office was small, easily entered and productive
of nothing. The police would give no information and seemed little interested in the new theory.
Squeaks's lodgings yielded nothing new, but they found that Belle's theory was right; he had
also had a room on the floor above. The woman in the gray cloak had called on him once or twice
in the previous month and had come once since. She was a sort of janitress, as she had a key
and straightened up his room. There was no hint of help in this. There was only one of his
haunts that they had not thoroughly examined, that was the club. There was no need for that,
as they knew every one that came and went, at least by sight.

