It is another illustration of the way in which discovery and imagination had hitherto gone
by steps and not by flights, that geographical knowledge reached the islands of the Atlantic
(none of which were at a very great distance from the coast of Europe or from each other) at
a comparatively early date, and stopped there until in Columbus there was found a man with
faith strong enough to make the long flight beyond them to the unknown West.  And yet the philosophers,
and later the cartographers, true to their instinct for this pedestrian kind of imagination,
put mythical lands and islands to the westward of the known islands as though they were really
trying to make a way, to sink stepping stones into the deep sea that would lead their thoughts
across the unknown space.  In the Catalan map of the world, which was the standard example
of cosmography in the early days of Columbus, most of these mythical islands are marked.  There
was the island of Antilia, which was placed in 25 deg. 35' W., and was said to have been discovered
by Don Roderick, the last of the Gothic kings of Spain, who fled there after his defeat by
the Moors.  There was the island of the Seven Cities, which is sometimes identified with this
Antilia, and was the object of a persistent belief or superstition on the part of the inhabitants
of the Canary Islands.  They saw, or thought they saw, about ninety leagues to the westward,
an island with high peaks and deep valleys.  The vision was intermittent; it was only seen
in very clear weather, on some of those pure, serene days of the tropics when in the clear
atmosphere distant objects appear to be close at hand.  In cloudy, and often in clear weather
also, it was not to be seen at all; but the inhabitants of the Canaries, who always saw it
in the same place, were so convinced of its reality that they petitioned the King of Portugal
to allow them to go and take possession of it; and several expeditions were in fact despatched,
but none ever came up with that fairy land.  It was called the island of the Seven Cities from
a legend of seven bishops who had fled from Spain at the time of the Moorish conquest, and,
landing upon this island, had founded there seven splendid cities.  There was the island of
St. Brandan, called after the Saint who set out from Ireland in the sixth century in search
of an island which always receded before his ships; this island was placed several hundred
miles to the west of the Canaries on maps and charts through out the fifteenth and sixteenth
centuries. There was the island of Brazil, to the west of Cape St. Vincent; the islands of
Royllo, San Giorgio, and Isola di Mam; but they were all islands of dreams, seen by the eyes
of many mariners in that imaginative time, but never trodden by any foot of man.  To Columbus,
however, and the mariners of his day, they were all real places, which a man might reach by
special good fortune or heroism, but which, all things considered, it was not quite worth the
while of any man to attempt to reach.  They have all disappeared from our charts, like the
Atlantis of Plato, that was once charted to the westward of the Straits of Gibraltar, and of
which the Canaries were believed to be the last peaks unsubmerged.

Sea myths and legends are strange things, and do not as a rule persist in the minds of men
unless they have had some ghostly foundation; so it is possible that these fabled islands of
the West were lands that had actually been seen by living eyes, although their position could
never be properly laid down nor their identity assured.  Of all the wandering seamen who talked
in the wayside taverns of Atlantic seaports, some must have had strange tales to tell; tales
which sometimes may have been true, but were never believed.  Vague rumours hung about those
shores, like spray and mist about a headland, of lands seen and lost again in the unknown and
uncharted ocean.  Doubtless the lamp of faith, the inner light, burned in some of these storm-tossed
men; but all they had was a glimpse here and there, seen for a moment and lost again; not the
clear sight of faith by which Columbus steered his westward course.

The actual outposts of western occupation, then, were the Azores, which were discovered by
Genoese sailors in the pay of Portugal early in the fourteenth century; the Canaries, which
had been continuously discovered and rediscovered since the Phoenicians occupied them and Pliny
chose them for his Hesperides; and Madeira, which is believed to have been discovered by an
Englishman under the following very romantic and moving circumstances.

In the reign of Edward the Third a young man named Robert Machin fell in love with a beautiful
girl, his superior in rank, Anne Dorset or d'Urfey by name.  She loved him also, but her relations
did not love him; and therefore they had Machin imprisoned upon some pretext or other, and
forcibly married the young lady to a nobleman who had a castle on the shores of the Bristol
Channel.

The marriage being accomplished, and the girl carried away by her bridegroom to his seat in
the West, it was thought safe to release Machin.  Whereupon he collected several friends, and
they followed the newly-married couple to Bristol and laid their plans for an abduction. One
of the friends got himself engaged as a groom in the service of the unhappy bride, and found
her love unchanged, and if possible increased by the present misery she was in.  An escape
was planned; and one day, when the girl and her groom were riding in the park, they set spurs
to their horses, and galloped off to a place on the shores of the Bristol Channel where young
Robert had a boat on the beach and a ship in the offing. They set sail immediately, intending
to make for France, where the reunited lovers hoped to live happily; but it came on to blow
when they were off the Lizard, and a southerly gale, which lasted for thirteen days, drove
them far out of their course.

The bride, from her joy and relief, fell into a state of the gloomiest despondency, believing
that the hand of God was turned against her, and that their love would never be enjoyed.  The
tempest fell on the fourteenth day, and at the break of morning the sea-worn company saw trees
and land ahead of them.  In the sunrise they landed upon an island full of noble trees, about
which flights of singing birds were hovering, and in which the sweetest fruits, the most lovely
flowers, and the purest and most limpid waters abounded.  Machin and his bride and their friends
made an encampment on a flowery meadow in a sheltered valley, where for three days they enjoyed
the sweetness and rest of the shore and the companionship of all kinds of birds and beasts,
which showed no signs of fear at their presence.  On the third day a storm arose, and raged
for a night over the island; and in the morning the adventurers found that their ship was nowhere
to be seen.  The despair of the little company was extreme, and was increased by the condition
of poor Anne, upon whom terror and remorse again fell, and so preyed upon her mind that in
three days she was dead.  Her lover, who had braved so much and won her so gallantly, was turned
to stone by this misfortune.  Remorse and aching desolation oppressed him; from the moment
of her death he scarcely ate nor spoke; and in five days he also was dead, surely of a broken
heart. They buried him beside his mistress under a spreading tree, and put up a wooden cross
there, with a prayer that any Christians who might come to the island would build a chapel
to Jesus the Saviour.  The rest of the party then repaired their little boat and put to sea;
were cast upon the coast of Morocco, captured by the Moors, and thrown into prison.  With them
in prison was a Spanish pilot named Juan de Morales, who listened attentively to all they could
tell him about the situation and condition of the island, and who after his release communicated
what he knew to Prince Henry of Portugal.  The island of Madeira was thus rediscovered in 1418,
and in 1425 was colonised by Prince Henry, who appointed as Governor Bartolomeo de Perestrello,
whose daughter was afterwards to become the wife of Columbus.

So much for the outposts of the Old World.  Of the New World, about the possibility of which
Columbus is beginning to dream as he sails the Mediterranean, there was no knowledge and hardly
any thought.  Though new in the thoughts of Columbus, it was very old in itself; generations
of men had lived and walked and spoken and toiled there, ever since men came upon the earth;
sun and shower, the thrill of the seasons, birth and life and death, had been visiting it for
centuries and centuries.  And it is quite possible that, long before even the civilisation
that produced Columbus was in its dawn, men from the Old World had journeyed there. There are
two very old fragments of knowledge which indicate at least the possibility of a Western World
of which the ancients had knowledge. There is a fragment, preserved from the fourth century
before Christ, of a conversation between Silenus and Midas, King of Phrygia, in which Silenus
correctly describes the Old World--Europe, Asia, and Africa--as being surrounded by the sea,
but also describes, far to the west of it, a huge island, which had its own civilisation and
its own laws, where the animals and the men were of twice our stature, and lived for twice
our years.  There is also the story told by Plato of the island of Atlantis, which was larger
than Africa and Asia together, and which in an earthquake disappeared beneath the waves, producing
such a slime upon the surface that no ship was able to navigate the sea in that place.  This
is the story which the priests of Sais told to Solon, and which was embodied in the sacred
inscriptions in their temples.  It is strange that any one should think of this theory of the
slime who had not seen or heard of the Sargasso Sea--that great bank of floating seaweed that
the ocean currents collect and retain in the middle of the basin of the North Atlantic.

The Egyptians, the Tartars, the Canaanites, the Chinese, the Arabians, the Welsh, and the Scandinavians
have all been credited with the colonisation of America; but the only race from the Old World
which had almost certainly been there were the Scandinavians.  In the year 983 the coast of
Greenland was visited by Eric the Red, the son of a Norwegian noble, who was banished for the
crime of murder.  Some fifteen years later Eric's son Lief made an expedition with thirty-five
men and a ship in the direction of the new land.  They came to a coast where there were nothing
but ice mountains having the appearance of slate; this country they named Helluland--that is,
Land of Slate.  This country is our Newfoundland.  Standing out to sea again, they reached
a level wooded country with white sandy cliffs, which they called Markland, or Land of Wood,
which is our Nova Scotia.  Next they reached an island east of Markland, where they passed
the winter, and as one of their number who had wandered some distance inland had found vines
and grapes, Lief named the country Vinland or Vine Land, which is the country we call New England.
The Scandinavians continued to make voyages to the West and South; and finally Thorfinn Karlsefne,
an Icelander, made a great expedition in the spring of 1007 with ships and material for colonisation.
He made much progress to the southwards, and the Icelandic accounts of the climate and soil
and characteristics of the country leave no doubt that Greenland and Nova Scotia were discovered
and colonised at this time.

It must be remembered, however, that then and in the lifetime of Columbus Greenland was supposed
to--be a promontory of the coast of Europe, and was not connected in men's minds with a western
continent.  Its early discovery has no bearing on the significance of Columbus's achievement,
the greatness of which depends not on his having been the first man from the Old World to set
foot upon the shores of the New, but on the fact that by pure faith and belief in his own purpose
he did set out for and arrive in a world where no man of his era or civilisation had ever before
set foot, or from which no wanderer who may have been blown there ever returned.  It is enough
to claim for him the merit of discovery in the true sense of the word.  The New World was covered
from the Old by a veil of distance, of time and space, of absence, invisibility, virtual non-existence;
and he discovered it.

CHAPTER VI

IN PORTUGAL

There is no reason to believe that before his twenty-fifth year Columbus was anything more
than a merchant or mariner, sailing before the mast, and joining one ship after another as
opportunities for good voyages offered themselves.  A change took place later, probably after
his marriage, when he began to adapt himself rapidly to a new set of surroundings, and to show
his intrinsic qualities; but all the attempts that have been made to glorify him socially--attempts,
it must be remembered, in which he himself and his sons were in after years the leaders--are
entirely mistaken.  That strange instinct for consistency which makes people desire to see
the outward man correspond, in terms of momentary and arbitrary credit, with the inner and
hidden man of the heart, has in truth led to more biographical injustice than is fully realised.
If Columbus had been the man some of his biographers would like to make him out--the nephew
or descendant of a famous French Admiral, educated at the University of Pavia, belonging to
a family of noble birth and high social esteem in Genoa, chosen by King Rene to be the commander
of naval expeditions, learned in scientific lore, in the classics, in astronomy and in cosmography,
the friend and correspondent of Toscanelli and other learned scientists--we should find it
hard indeed to forgive him the shifts and deceits that he practised.  It is far more interesting
to think of him as a common craftsman, of a lowly condition and poor circumstances, who had
to earn his living during the formative period of his life by the simplest and hardest labour
of the hand.  The qualities that made him what he was were of a very simple kind, and his character
owed its strength, not to any complexity or subtlety of training and education, but rather
to that very bareness and simplicity of circumstance that made him a man of single rather than
manifold ideas. He was not capable of seeing both sides of a question; he saw only one side.
But he came of a great race; and it was the qualities of his race, combined with this simplicity
and even perhaps vacancy of mind, that gave to his idea, when once the seed of it had lodged
in his mind, so much vigour in growth and room for expansion.  Think of him, then, at the age
of twenty-five as a typical plebeian Genoese, bearing all the characteristic traits of his
century and people--the spirit of adventure, the love of gold and of power, a spirit of mysticism,
and more than a touch of crafty and elaborate dissimulation, when that should be necessary.

