Such are the two sets of considerations that will, I think, ultimately prevail over every prejudice
and every difficulty in the way of the League of Free Nations. Existing states have become
impossible as absolutely independent sovereignties. The new conditions bring them so close
together and give them such extravagant powers of mutual injury that they must either sink
national pride and dynastic ambitions in subordination to the common welfare of mankind or
else utterly shatter one another. It becomes more and more plainly a choice between the League
of Free Nations and a famished race of men looting in search of non-existent food amidst the
smouldering ruins of civilization. In the end I believe that the common sense of mankind will
prefer a revision of its ideas of nationality and imperialism, to the latter alternative. It
may take obstinate men a few more years yet of blood and horror to learn this lesson, but for
my own part I cherish an obstinate belief in the potential reasonableness of mankind.

IX

DEMOCRACY

All the talk, all the aspiration and work that is making now towards this conception of a world
securely at peace, under the direction of a League of Free Nations, has interwoven with it
an idea that is often rather felt than understood, the idea of Democracy. Not only is justice
to prevail between race and race and nation and nation, but also between man and man; there
is to be a universal respect for human life throughout the earth; the world, in the words of
President Wilson, is to be made "safe for democracy." I would like to subject that word to
a certain scrutiny to see whether the things we are apt to think and assume about it correspond
exactly with the feeling of the word. I would like to ask what, under modern conditions, does
democracy mean, and whether we have got it now anywhere in the world in its fulness and completion.

And to begin with I must have a quarrel with the word itself. The eccentricities of modern
education make us dependent for a number of our primary political terms upon those used by
the thinkers of the small Greek republics of ancient times before those petty states collapsed,
through sheer political ineptitude, before the Macedonians. They thought in terms of states
so small that it was possible to gather all the citizens together for the purposes of legislation.
These states were scarcely more than what we English might call sovereign urban districts.
Fast communications were made by runners; even the policeman with a bicycle of the modern urban
district was beyond the scope of the Greek imagination. There were no railways, telegraphs,
telephones, books or newspapers, there was no need for the state to maintain a system of education,
and the affairs of the state were so simple that they could be discussed and decided by the
human voice and open voting in an assembly of all the citizens. That is what democracy, meant.
In Andorra, or perhaps in Canton Uri, such democracy may still be possible; in any other modern
state it cannot exist. The opposite term to it was oligarchy, in which a small council of men
controlled the affairs of the state. Oligarchy, narrowed down to one man, became monarchy.
If you wished to be polite to an oligarchy you called it an aristocracy; if you wished to point
out that a monarch was rather by way of being self-appointed, you called him a Tyrant. An oligarchy
with a property qualification was a plutocracy.

Now the modern intelligence, being under a sort of magic slavery to the ancient Greeks, has
to adapt all these terms to the problems of states so vast and complex that they have the same
relation to the Greek states that the anatomy of a man has to the anatomy of a jellyfish. They
are not only greater in extent and denser in population, but they are increasingly innervated
by more and more rapid means of communication and excitement. In the classical past--except
for such special cases as the feeding of Rome with Egyptian corn--trade was a traffic in luxuries
or slaves, war a small specialized affair of infantry and horsemen in search of slaves and
loot, and empire the exaction of tribute. The modern state must conduct its enormous businesses
through a system of ministries; its vital interests go all round the earth; nothing that any
ancient Greek would have recognized as democracy is conceivable in a great modern state. It
is absolutely necessary, if we are to get things clear in our minds about what democracy really
means in relation to modern politics, first to make a quite fresh classification in order to
find what items there really are to consider, and then to inquire which seem to correspond
more or less closely in spirit with our ideas about ancient democracy.

Now there are two primary classes of idea about government in the modern world depending upon
our conception of the political capacity of the common man. We may suppose he is a microcosm,
with complete ideas and wishes about the state and the world, or we may suppose that he isn't.
We may believe that the common man can govern, or we may believe that he can't. We may think
further along the first line that he is so wise and good and right that we only have to get
out of his way for him to act rightly and for the good of all mankind, or we may doubt it.
And if we doubt that we may still believe that, though perhaps "you can fool all the people
some of the time, and some of the people all the time," the common man, expressing himself
by a majority vote, still remains the secure source of human wisdom. But next, while we may
deny this universal distribution of political wisdom, we may, if we are sufficiently under
the sway of modern ideas about collective psychology, believe that it is necessary to poke
up the political indifference and inability of the common man as much as possible, to thrust
political ideas and facts upon him, to incite him to a watchful and critical attitude towards
them, and above all to secure his assent to the proceedings of the able people who are managing
public affairs. Or finally, we may treat him as a thing to be ruled and not consulted. Let
me at this stage make out a classificatory diagram of these elementary ideas of government
in a modern country.

CLASS I. It is supposed that the common man can govern:

(1) without further organization (Anarchy);

(2) through a majority vote by delegates.

CLASS II. It is supposed that the common man cannot govern, and that government therefore must
be through the agency of Able Persons who may be classified under one of the following sub-heads,
either as

(1) persons elected by the common man because he believes them to be persons able to govern--just
as he chooses his doctors as persons able to secure health, and his electrical engineers as
persons able to attend to his tramways, lighting, etc., etc.;

(2) persons of a special class, as, for example, persons born and educated to rule (e.g. Aristocracy),
or rich business adventurers (Plutocracy) who rule without consulting the common man at all.

To which two sub-classes we may perhaps add a sort of intermediate stage between them, namely:

(3) persons elected by a special class of voter.

Monarchy may be either a special case of Class II.(1), (2) or (3), in which the persons who
rule have narrowed down in number to one person, and the duration of monarchy may be either
for life or a term of years. These two classes and the five sub-classes cover, I believe, all
the elementary political types in our world.

