In my judgment the better way for him would have been not to pay appropriations not needed
to meet specific contracts, for an appropriation of money by Congress is not mandatory, but
is permissive, an authority but not a command to pay, nor does an appropriation in itself authorize
the borrowing of money.  When this authority is required Congress must grant it, and, upon
its failure to do so, all the Secretary of the Treasury should do is to pay such appropriations
as the revenues collected by the government will justify.  It is for Congress to provide such
sums, by taxation or loans, as are necessary to meet all appropriations made in excess of revenue.
If it refuses or neglects to do this, the responsibility is on it, not on the secretary.  All
he can do is choose what appropriations he will pay.  This is a dangerous and delicate power,
but it has frequently been employed and has never been abused. His failure to exercise this
discretion was a grave mistake.

As revenues diminished deficiencies increased.  A doubt arose whether, under the then existing
conditions, the government would be able to pay gold coin for United States notes and treasury
notes. These were supported by a reserve of $100,000,000 in gold coin and bullion, but this
reserve fund was not segregated from the general balance in the treasury, as it ought to have
been, but was liable to be drawn upon for all appropriations made by Congress.  There was not
then, and there is not now, any specific authority invested in the Secretary of the Treasury
to sell bonds or to borrow money to meet current deficiencies, and he felt called upon to pay
these out of the general fund, embracing that created for the redemption of United States notes
under the act of 1875.  The result was to create an alarm that the government could not or
would not pay such notes and thus maintain the gold standard.  The timid, and those whose patriotism
is in their purse, were making inroads on the gold reserve, which fell below $100,000,000.

By the resumption act of 1875 the Secretary of the Treasury was authorized, to enable him to
pay United States notes on demand, to sell either of three classes of bonds bearing respectively
five, four and a half and four per cent. interest, but the question arose, in 1894, whether
he could sell these bonds to meet current expenditures.  All of them were worth a premium in
the market. Bonds bearing three per cent. running a short period could then have been sold
at par.  In common with many others I foresaw, in February, 1893, that the tariff policy of
the then incoming administration would reduce our revenue below our expenditures, and sought
to have Congress authorize the sale of bonds bearing three per cent. interest instead of those
at a higher rate already authorized. "What was worse, and i imposed forced subsidies would plainly
would enter with inequality, surpass by friends and adherents, and burdening opponents with more than
could be borne. The imprudent and financial policy saw the debt of
Buchanan Albizzi.  During each year of Buchanan's administration the
public debt increased, as it has been steadily increasing during Cleveland's administration,
and great embarrassment grows out of this fact.  My friendly suggestion was defeated and the
result has been the sale of four per cent. bonds at a sacrifice.

