"What's the trouble, kid?" he questioned anxiously. She is triumphantly brought back to the bridegroom's house, her relations
and friends append from the number in the procession.

Guns are fired and pyrotechnic let off to the road and along the bridget's
and bridegroom's houses. It seems so long. I was thinkin'
of mother, Davy, and wishing she was here with us this night."

"You poor kid, poor little crippled kid," muttered David, patting the small, thin hand. "It's
natural, I suppose, for you to pine for your mother, but ain't Davy been almost like a mother
to you, Patsy? He's tried hard, that he has, to be father and mother and big brother all in
one." And the man smiled somewhat wistfully.

"You've been all that and more too, Davy. 'Twasn't on my account I was wishin' for mother,
'twas on yours. If she was here, she'd know how to keep you from going with them men to-morrow
night. She'd know how to keep you to home, and I don't know what to say or to do to stop you
from going."

David's face darkened slightly and there was a note of sternness in his voice as he said:

"So you was listening, was you, and heard what we was talkin' about?"

"I didn't listen a purpose, David; at least, not at first. I happened to wake and heard 'em
speak of the brown house on the hill. Then I wanted to hear everything and I listened a purpose
after that. Oh, Davy! Davy!" the child cried imploringly, sitting up in the bed and clasping
his hands in petition; "don't do it, Davy; don't be a thief to please those wicked men; don't
go robbing the brown house on the hill."

A fearful fit of coughing racked the little form and David held him gently in his arms until
the paroxysm had passed. Then, laying the boy back upon the pillows, he said quietly:

"You mustn't get excited, Patsy, it's bad for you. We'll not talk no more to-night. In the
morning I'll tell you the story of the house on the hill and you'll see I'm not tacklin' this
job to please anyone but myself. Go to sleep now, kid, for I'll not say another word to-night,
not another word."

When David spoke in that tone of voice Patsy knew there was nothing for him to do but to obey.
Turning his face to the wall, he closed his eyes, but sleep did not visit him that night. He
lay listening for the stroke of the town clock as it sounded, one after another, the slowly
dragging hours; he lay listening to David's regular breathing and wondered how a man could
sleep so calmly with such a deed in prospect; he lay anxiously turning over in his mind various
schemes by which he could frustrate the plan in case he failed in persuading David to abandon
it altogether. Several times fits of coughing shook him nearly to pieces, and at those times
the pain in his poor little chest was well-nigh unbearable. He smothered the cough as well
as he could beneath the bedclothes for fear of disturbing David. As for the pain--well, pain
and Patsy had been companions so long now that he had grown quite accustomed to it.

The next day was cold and dismal, with a leaden sky threatening snow, and a bitter wind blowing
that searched the very marrow of one's bones. The few neighbors who chanced to glance out of
their windows at an early hour in the afternoon were surprised to see Patsy making his way
along the street, slowly and painfully, with the aid of his crutches. They had never known
him to be abroad on a day like this; indeed, it was many a day since he had attempted going
upon the street at all. Poor little Patsy, his crutches were once a familiar sight going up
and down the pavements on pleasant days in the summer time, but they had thought never to see
him leave his room again. Did David know? Some one should stop the child; he was too weak to
wander out alone like that. But then, it was no affair of theirs; David could probably be trusted
to look after the boy.

As no one was willing to make it his business to interfere, Patsy went on his way unmolested.
A strange look of determination battled with the pain on the sickly, childish face as he made
his way bravely against the biting wind that sought to drive him back. He had learned the mystery
of the house on the hill; he knew now why David hated so bitterly that house and all connected
with it; he knew why David was willing and eager to help the men in the plan they were to carry
out that night. David had told him all about it, and for the first time in his life he had
felt afraid of this dearly loved brother of his. It had been a revelation to Pasty. Surely,
this bitter, unforgiving, revengeful man could not be the same who had been father, mother
and big brother to the little cripple for whom he had cared so tenderly since their mother
had been taken from them.

It had sounded like a fairy tale to Patsy; he could scarcely believe his own ears. Just to
think of it; that brown house on the hill had once been their mother's home, and the man who
lived there, the man whom David hated with undying hatred, was their mother's brother and their
uncle. On the day she married, she had left her home forever, her brother vowing that never
as long as he lived would he set eyes upon her face again; to him she would be as though dead.
Once, when father lay dying (Patsy could not remember it, but David had told him of it), mother
had written to their uncle imploring a little help in their misery. It was not for herself
she had asked but for the dying husband and sickly baby. Her letter had been returned to her
with these harsh words written on the back: "Some mistake here. No woman has the right to call
me brother. My only sister died years ago." David had kept the letter ever since; he had been
old enough at the time to understand. He had vowed then to have revenge some day and he kept
the letter to remind him of the vow should he ever be in danger of forgetting it.

Patsy knew now why his brother so hated the house on the hill, and why David had been so cross
on that day last summer when he, Patsy, had come home and told of the young lady who had been
so kind to him, the lady who lived in the house on the hill. As a rule, every one was good
to Patsy. Even the children on the street, who quarrelled among themselves, striking, reviling,
pelting one another with stones, had, nothing but kind words and smiles for Patsy. But that
day last summer he had wandered farther from home than usual and a crowd of rough boys had
stopped and commenced tormenting him, laughing at him, calling him names, jeering at his deformity,
and even pulling his hair and pinching his ears. The child had tried to push past them, but
they closed in on him and it might have fared ill with Patsy but for the timely arrival on
the scene of the young lady from the house on the hill.

She quickly scattered the band of hoodlums and then walked with Patsy until he was well on
his way home and safe from further attack. She had been kind to him, and made him promise to
come and see her. That was how he knew her name and where she lived. He had wanted to see her
again and had thought of her so often but David would not let him go.

Many a night, when the pain kept him from sleeping, he would while away the long hours by thinking
of the gentle, beautiful girl, and he never said his prayers at night and morning, as mother
had taught him, that he did not add a petition for his "lovely lady." And to think that she
was his own cousin, his uncle's daughter; she lived in the house on the hill and it was her
house that David and those men were planning to rob. For her sake as well as David's the deed
must be prevented; her father must not be robbed; David must not become a thief. Patsy had
determined that last night when he first heard them mention the scheme. One or two only had the Hindoo
pain, with large, soft, drooping eyes, large hook noses, and in-developed sass, over good
receding chins. These women had much stronger features than the there persian generally have,
and resembled-- with fact, were practically-- afghani women. He prayed, too, long and earnestly, for the priest at the Sunday-school told them
God would always answer little boys' prayers if what they asked for was good for them. And
was it not a good thing for which he was pleading? Simply that he might find a way to keep
his lady from being robbed and save David from becoming a thief?

At last, the idea he wanted had come to him; he knew just what he must do to secure his end.
There was danger in the plan, to himself, but he must risk that. It mattered little what happened
to him if he could only save his David, his dear, kind big brother, who would never have thought
of doing wrong had it not been for those wicked men who had led him astray. Patsy feared those
men mightily. He knew their anger would be terrible should they discover how their plan had
been frustrated. They might even kill him if they found him out, but he hoped they need not
know. He would confess to David alone at supper time that evening; no matter how angry, David
would not hurt his little brother. Of that Patsy was certain. Anyway, whatever the risk, he
must take it to save David and to save the lady.

The early winter twilight was closing in when Patsy reached his home again and dragged himself
up the stairs to the one room which he and David occupied. He was almost exhausted and his
breath came in short, sharp gasps which cut him like knives. He would have liked to crawl into
his bed, close his eyes and never open them again, he was so tired. But he must not give in
yet; his task was but half accomplished. David must be told of what he had done, and at that
thought a spasm of fear contracted his heart. Shivering, he drew a chair near the stove and
waited with closed eyes and pain-drawn face for the sound of David's foot upon the stairs.

Twilight passed and darkness filled the little room, still David did not come. Patsy lighted
the lamp upon the table, wondering anxiously why his brother was so late. He put more coals
upon the fire, which was burning low, and made the tea for David's supper. He set out the loaf
of bread, the cold meat, the cheese, upon the table, then resumed his chair and his eager listening
for footsteps that were so long in coming. It seemed to Patsy he had waited for hours and hours,
and suddenly his heart stopped beating and his eyes distended in terror as a thought occurred
to him. Suppose David did not come at all! What, what would happen then? But there, that was
David's step and all would be well now. The child looked up eagerly as his brother entered
the room, then, nearly cried aloud in his bitter disappointment. David was not alone. One of
the gang was with him, and this was a contingency for which Patsy had made no allowance. What
was he to do now? How could he tell his brother, how warn him, in the presence of that dreadful
man?

For the first time in his life David was so preoccupied that he paid no heed to the little
cripple who had now withdrawn to the darkest corner of the room and crouched there in abject
terror. The two men made a hasty meal and then sat by the table talking in tones so low that
Patsy heard scarcely a word of what was said. Anyway, he cared nothing for their plans now;
he had spoiled everything for them. But how was he to tell David, how was he to tell David?

By and by, a third man joined them and there was more whispering with heads close together.
At last, the three arose and made preparations for going out. They moved towards the door and
were astonished to find themselves confronted by a small, crippled figure, that stood swaying
on his crutches, directly in their way. A bright red spot burned on either cheek, the eyes
were brilliant with fever, and the child was panting for breath. But he said very quietly,
his eyes fixed steadily on his brother's face:

"You mustn't go out to-night, David."

The men gasped and looked at one another in amazement.

"You mustn't go out to-night, David," the child repeated. "You mustn't none of you go to the
house on the hill to-night." 

The dancing itself is carried away on her night. One informant remembers in his youth that a family
of a girl is eligible for a dance would light a fire part way up
at no Job’ s Peak to announce the event.

Singing and hand-clapping accompany the dancing, which may go her on
all night.

"Yes," Patsy repeated; "I've stopped you. I peached on you; I warned 'em you was comin'."

David's face was terrible to see.

"What's that you're saying, Patsy? You what?"

"I warned 'em this afternoon. I went to the house on the hill and told 'em you was comin'.
You mustn't go, David, you mustn't go. The police'll be there waitin' for you, 'cos I told
'em you was comin'. I didn't want you to be a thief, David; I done it for your sake. Oh, David,
David!"

David's face was livid and his clenched fist was raised to strike, but Patsy and his crutches
lay in a little huddled heap at David's feet.

When the child opened his eyes again, the men were gone and he and his brother were alone.
He looked into the face bending above him and gave a sigh of relief. All the anger was gone,
only anxious solicitude rested there. Patsy tried to speak, but his voice was so weak and low
that David had difficulty in understanding what he said. He leaned over to catch the faintly
whispered words:

"You ain't mad at me now, are you, Davy? I'm so glad. I'd hate to go away thinkin' you was
mad at me. I had to do it, Davy, I had to tell; there wasn't no other way to keep you from
being a thief. I'm sorry to leave you alone, Davy, but I guess mother wants me in Heaven. You
know the doctor said I'd be going soon anyway. Mother said she'd be waitin' for you and me
and I guess she wants me now. I'm sorry to leave you, but I'm afeared I must go. It'll be lonesome
for you when I'm gone. You'll have no one to light the lamp and make the tea for you in the
evenings. You'll come home here at night and it'll be all dark and lonely with no Patsy to
meet you. But remember, David, I'll be lookin' at you from Heaven. Mother and I'll be waitin'
for you there and I'm thinkin' even Heaven won't be just right till you've come to us. Promise
me you'll come to us some day; promise you'll never go with them wicked men no more. Let 'em
alone or they'll make you as bad as they be, and then you won't never see mother and me. Promise
you'll let 'em alone, Davy; promise you'll be good and come to us in Heaven some day."

"I promise, kid, I promise," whispered David brokenly. "With God's help I'll turn over a new
leaf and I'll come to you some day."

A smile brightened the pale, pinched face, a smile of absolute content and trustful affection.

"God bless you, my Davy, God bless you," murmured the faint voice haltingly. "Good-by--until
we meet--in Heaven."

THREE EVENINGS IN A LIFE.

I.

One by one the city clocks chimed the hour of midnight. One by one Jane counted the strokes
and sighed despairingly as she glanced at the window in which the light still burned so brightly.
The air was bitter cold, a fine snow was falling, and she had been trudging up and down, up
and down, for ages it seemed to her. Richard was growing so heavy and her arms ached so she
could scarcely hold him. Still, there was nothing for it but to tramp up and down, up and down
the narrow street, the baby in her arms, until mother should give the welcome signal. When
that lamp in the window opposite was put out and the house in darkness, she would know that
it was safe for her to creep up the stairs and into the bed in the kitchen which she shared
with the baby brother now sleeping in her arms.

Seating herself upon a doorstep she was passing, Jane shifted the baby to a more comfortable
position and leaned her head against the rough woodwork of the tenement house. How tired, she
was, how very tired! Her head ached, her back ached, she ached all over. Day after day, she
worked in the factory from early morning until nightfall. Night after night, she walked the
street with Richard in her arms, not daring to enter the house until father was safely sleeping.
Of course it did not happen every night. Just once in a while father would come home sober
and then there was no fear of harm to the baby or herself. Many a night, too, he did not come
home at all, but on those occasions she and mother scarce dared to close an eye. They knew
not at what moment he might return, possibly in even an uglier mood than usual. Mother was
never afraid for herself. She could usually manage him, although there had been times when
bad cuts and bruises bore testimony to the treatment to which she had been subjected. For Jane
and little Richard, their only chance lay in keeping out of the way, so Jane would tramp the
street, Richard in her arms, despite aches and pains and weariness.

The child on the doorstep anxiously watched the window across the way. Would the light never
go out? Father must be unusually bad to-night, and she was so tired. The day had been a hard
one at the factory and every bone in her body ached. Well, there was one comfort; to-morrow
would be Sunday and she could stay at home all day. To-morrow? To-day, rather, for midnight
had already passed. She would have one long day to rest and help mother. She felt now as if
she could sleep the whole day through. She would like to sleep for a week at least, and even
then she would not be rested quite enough. There were moments of unusual fatigue and depression
in which she could almost wish that she might fall asleep and sleep forever as the other little
ones had done. Three of them there were, delicate, sickly little creatures, who had struggled
for a time against the ills of human existence and then given up the unequal conflict. At times,
she could almost find it in her heart to envy them were it not for mother and Richard, especially
Richard.

There, at last! The light was gone, the window in darkness, and it was safe for her to return
to the tenement across the way.

II.

The same street, the same tenement house, but grown even uglier and dingier with the passing
of the years. In a small room on the second floor, Jane sits beside the bed on which her mother
tosses in the delirium of fever. Her heart is slowly breaking as she listens to the moaning,
insistent cry which issues from those parched lips. All through the days and nights of anxious
watching, that cry has been ringing in her ears, the call for "Richard, Richard, Richard."

That her mother is dying she knows full well, and how she longs for one loving glance, for
one word of affection, to carry with her in the lonely years to come. But no look of recognition
comes to the sightless eyes and no word escapes the lips save that never ceasing cry of "Richard,
Richard, Richard." A white-capped nurse flits softly about, but Jane pays no heed to her. The
doctor enters and hold whispered consultation with the nurse. Jane does not even glance at
him. She is tired of hearing him say the same old thing time after time: "While there is life,
there is hope." She knows there is no hope, though everything possible has been done to save
the precious life now ebbing so swiftly. Thank God, they are no longer poor as when she was
a child. There were a first number of soldiers at the gross with clothes undone-- they were practical cohort--
and rusty muskets resting idle on a dish.
"Is Meftah-alpha-tocopheral-Sultaneh hither?"

"Yes, he is waiting for
you," answered a soldier as he sprang to his feet. I ask.
And they were happy, then, so happy.

After her father's death, which had occurred while she was still a mere child, she and mother
had devoted themselves to the task of caring for little Richard. They toiled; they starved,
they saved--all for Richard. They prayed and planned and hoped--for Richard. He must go to
school, he must go to college, he must become a power in the world. For themselves, poor food,
poor clothes, the old tenement were good enough, for every cent they saved meant so much the
more for Richard when he should have come to man's estate. And Richard? Oh! he had been well
content to take all they offered him. He went to school, he went to college; only, somehow,
the reports of his doings there were anything but encouraging. They seemed to be merely a series
of pranks and mischief, but the devoted mother was very ready to make allowances. The boy was
young, he would grow steadier as he grew older. They must have patience with him for a few
years yet. At times Jane doubted the wisdom of their course, and when the demands, not only
upon their patience but upon their purse, became greater and greater, Jane had counseled removing
him from college and setting him to work. Not so the mother. Her cry was ever: "Patience, patience,
and all will yet be well." So they bore with him a while longer to their never ceasing sorrow.

His escapades grew wilder, the reprimands of the faculty more severe. At last came the final
prank, which had resulted in his disgrace and expulsion. Even then, she and mother was ready
to forgive and had written him to come home. No answer from Richard had ever been received.
Instead, came the news that the boy had disappeared, run away; the last seen of him was boarding
a train for the West. All efforts at tracing him had proved futile, and to this day they knew
not where he was.

Mother had never smiled again but had drooped and faded day by day. Time and again Jane had
urged moving to more congenial surroundings, to a flat or cottage in the suburbs, to fresh
air and sunshine. But no, mother would not have it so; Richard might come back some day and
how could he find them if they moved away from the old home in the tenement house?

Even now, when she is dying, her last thought is not for the girl beside her, the girl who
has toiled so patiently, watched so faithfully, sacrificed all so generously, for mother and
for Richard. Even in delirium, her thoughts are only for the absent one; her words, that insistent,
heartrending cry for "Richard, Richard, Richard." Jane bows her head in anguish but whispers
low: "Thy will be done."

III.

Long since, the factory whistle has sounded the signal for release from the day's toil. The
workers in the factory, a small army of men and women, boys and girls, poured forth from the
doorways of the huge buildings, swarmed up the street, laughing and chattering, and dispersed
to their several homes. The buzz and jarring of the machinery have ceased and silence fills
the place. Even the offices are deserted, with the exception of one from which issues the steady
click, click, of a typewriter.

