DESIGNS, LACE ARTICLES, EDGINGS, INSERTIONS, ETC., IN MODERN LACE.

Of necessity, most of the designs and specimens given on this and the following pages are smaller
than the articles they represent, but they afford a correct idea of the method of making and
the beauty of Modern Lace, and also its adaptability to dainty accessories of the toilet and
the household. As before mentioned any design desired can be obtained from any lace-making
establishment in any size, width or shape, according to the requirements of the article or
lace to be made, and individual taste. Ingenious students will no doubt be able to adapt for
themselves the designs offered, but it is not advisable for those who have no talent in the
matter of drawing or designing to undertake an elaborate adaptation, though they may easily
accomplish a simple one. Besides, a professional designer will furnish the design for a moderate
sum, perfectly outlined upon tracing cloth, with ink, and with the proper filling-in stitches
perfectly delineated; and if the student wishes it, will select the thread and braid appropriate
for the design; or the student may select the braid she fancies, and the designer will then
select the thread suitable for the braid.

No. 1.

DESIGN FOR A LACE HANDKERCHIEF.

This design is suitable for point lace braid, but is of course very much reduced in size, in
order to show the effect and arrangement of a design ready for working, as sent out from the
lace-maker's. By a reference to the various stitches illustrated on preceding pages, the stitches
shown in one corner of the design may be readily identified. The following engraving shows
how braid is applied to a design before the stitches are begun.

No. 2.

METHOD OF PLACING BRAID UPON DESIGNS.

This illustration shows the method of arranging braid upon designs for modern lace, and how,
after the braid is basted along the pattern, the tracing cloth is basted to toile cirée or
to smooth, light brown wrapping paper to provide sufficient firmness for working.

The following instructions apply particularly to engraving No. 2, but their principle should
be observed and applied to any design decided upon, as good results in lace-making largely
depend upon the arrangement of the braid.

No. 3.

ROYAL BATTENBURG LACE BUREAU-SCARF.

The engraving on the opposite page represents the article above mentioned, and shows the effectiveness
of this magnificent and durable lace. In actual size the scarf is about a yard and one-half
long and one-half yard wide, and is made of a heavy Battenburg braid, having a fancy edge (See
Nos. 5 or 7, on page 20) and cord, rings and buttons. The main part of the design is outlined
with the braid, cord is used as a veining for the leaves, and the rings and buttons are introduced
here and there over the surface, as seen in the picture. Raleigh bars with picots connect the
border and center designs, while the palms along the border as well as other small spaces are
filled in with point Turque and point de Grecque stitches. Sorrento bars are also used in some
of the long leaf-like spaces, while in a few of the circular spaces point d'Angleterre rosettes
are introduced. These rosettes are also frequently called "spiders," and are made, according
to the space, large or small; and according to the requirements of the braid selected, heavy
or light.

For convenience in giving the name of this lace, the full title is rarely used--"Battenburg
Lace" being considered sufficient to identify the fabric from the other and lighter laces.

Battenburg lace is made both heavy and light, according to personal taste or the object for
which the lace is intended, but it was originally designed for heavy work only.

No. 4.

POINT LACE DOILY FOR A TOILET CUSHION.

This dainty doily may be made of the point lace braids illustrated at Nos. 30 and 31, together
with the picot edging No. 36, seen on page 20. In filling in the spaces, thread suitable for
the braid is used, and the stitches are point de Valenciennes, point d'Espagne, Sorrento bars,
point de Bruxelles, open rings and "spiders." As all of these stitches, with many others are
illustrated in that section of this book devoted to stitches, it will be unnecessary to repeat
the details for making, as they are fully given in the department mentioned. It will also be
understood that most of the articles illustrated are not of full size, but in some instances
are nearly so. The doily just described is illustrated about three-quarters of its actual size;
but by using a fine braid a doily of fairy-like texture, and just the size of the engraving
may be produced. Any one accustomed to drawing may enlarge this or any of the designs given,
but only clever fingers should try this experiment.

No. 5.

BATTENBURG EDGING, WITH CORD.

This is a very elegant looking lace, though simply made after the regular Battenburg method.
A plain braid (No. 10, page 20) is chosen to form the outlines, and after the stitches are
filled in, cord of a suitable size is carried around the petals and foliage of the design,
and rows of it are also used to indicate the vine, though the latter may be outlined with the
tape and then with the cord. The petals of the blossoms are filled in in point de Bruxelles
and point de Venise stitches, while point d'Espagne and point Brabançon are used for the foliage
and vine. Point Grecque and d'Alençon bars are also used at the very heart of the blossom,
and Raleigh net-work bars connect the design to the edge and are dotted here and there with
"spiders."

No. 6.

BATTENBURG INSERTION, WITH CORD.

This insertion matches the edging or lace above described, and is, therefore, made in exactly
the same way, except that the design is double. Both the edging and insertion may be made of
any width desired; and the design will be found very pretty for fancy-edge or plain braids
without the cord. Buttons or rings may be used in place of the "spiders" seen in the engravings
if preferred.

No. 7.

DESIGN FOR A HONITON LACE CAP.

The design illustrated is, of necessity, much smaller than the cap it is intended for; but
the clever student may easily enlarge it to, or design one for herself of the size required.
Lace-makers will duplicate designs in any size desired for a moderate sum, thus saving the
amateur much work and at the same time putting her to little expense.

The design here illustrated might also be used for handkerchief corners, scarf-ends, etc.,
etc.; and any of the stitches illustrated on preceding pages may be selected for filling-in
purposes.

No. 8.

DESIGN FOR A CORNER IN BATTENBURG, POINT, OR HONITON LACE.

According to the article to be decorated, this design will be found appropriate for either
of the braids used for the laces above mentioned.

For table scarfs, tidies, heavy borders, etc., etc., the Battenburg braids should be selected;
but for handkerchiefs or doilies, the point or Honiton braids are the proper ones to choose
for this design.

Raleigh bars, Brussels point and any other stitches preferred, may be used in filling in the
spaces. When a design is procured from a lace-maker a portion of it is always marked with the
stitches to be used; but this is not an arbitrary matter, since the one who is to make the
lace, may desire to and may insert other stitches in preference to those indicated.

No. 9.

DOILY IN "IDEAL HONITON" LACE-WORK AND LINEN LAWN.

One of the prettiest and the very newest of the modern laces is here illustrated. It is made
of two of the many varieties of Honiton braids, wash-silk floss and linen lawn. The braid is
basted smoothly upon a square of lawn in the design illustrated (though individual taste will
no doubt suggest many other equally pretty designs), after which the inner edges of the braid
are permanently secured by a "short and long stitch." This is merely a short and long button-hole
stitch reversed so that the cross loops are on the edge of the braid, while the stitches them
selves extend beyond the braid, into the lawn, as seen in the engraving. Two short stitches
alternate with single long ones throughout this part of the work. The outer edges are then
fastened to the square by tiny button-hole scollops. Then the lawn is cut from under the squares
formed by the braid, and the openings are button-holed through the lawn and braid so that the
edges of the lawn will not fray. When this is done the spaces are filled in with fancy stitches,
and when they are completed the lawn is cut away from the edge-scollops with a pair of fine
sharp, scissors. In the doily illustrated "spiders" and point de Venise stitches are used for
filling in the spaces. The floss used may be white or tinted, the latter washing as well as
the white; but as a rule, white or yellow flosses are selected in preference to other colors.
"Ideal Honiton" scarfs, tidies, doilies, pillow shams, tray cloths, etc., etc., may be purchased
with the braid already basted on in a pretty design and with the necessary threads or floss,
or they may be designed at home, and by either method will result in a beautiful variety of
modern lace.

No. 10.

DESIGN FOR A CORNER IN BATTENBURG LACE.

Although this design is intended for Battenburg lace, and may be made up of any of the braids
used for that kind of lace, it will also be found suitable for the finer point or Honiton braids
for handkerchiefs, doilies, mats, etc., etc. As illustrated it would be suitable for a handkerchief.
Enlarged and followed in Battenburg braid it would make a very handsome border for a table-scarf,
curtains or draperies, or a substantial decoration for a gown of wash fabric or other goods.
Raleigh bars, "spiders" and point de Bruxelles stitches are used for filling in, and a dainty
picot edge is sewed to the outer line of the braid. Plain or fancy braid may be used for this
design. If fancy loop-edge braid is selected, the picot edge will not be needed, the loops
taking its place.

No. 11.

BATTENBURG EDGING.

The edging here illustrated is represented about one-third less than its actual width, but
the design is so distinctly brought out that its beauty in any width may be readily conceived.
It is formed of fancy Battenburg braid, but may be made from a plain variety if preferred.
The design is known as the fern leaf and is easy to follow. Sorrento bars are used to connect
the work, and "spiders" are made here and there to add variety to the work. Point de Bruxelles
stitches are used to fill in the spaces at the sides of the leaves, and, with the fancy braid,
produce a very dainty, delicate effect.

No. 12.

BATTENBURG INSERTION.

This insertion is made to match the edging seen above it, but is much wider than the edging,
though formed of the same braid. Either design could be varied so as to result in an edging
and insertion of equal width, or the edging could be arranged for an insertion, and the insertion
illustrated changed into an edging.

No. 13.

FINGER-BOWL DOILY OF PRINCESS LACE AND LINEN LAWN.

Princess lace, (also known as Duchesse lace) as elsewhere mentioned, results from combining
Honiton and point lace braids in one design; and a charming specimen of this lovely lace is
here illustrated.

The doily is pictured only a trifle smaller than its actual size, and even in its full size
is a very dainty affair. After the braids are basted along the design, they are then connected
by twisted bars that are an adaptation from the point d'Alençon bars with the twisted stitch;
and the spaces are filled in in small d'Angleterre rosettes or "spiders." As few bars as possible
are employed for the spiders, in order to produce a very delicate effect. The lawn center is
added last.

No. 14.

DESIGN FOR INSERTION, OR A CENTER-PIECE, IN BATTENBURG LACE.

As suggested by the title, the design here presented may be used for insertion, or for a center
to a table cloth or scarf, or a handsome spread. As represented it is intended for a center-piece,
and the lace from which the engraving was made is about half-a-yard long and one-fourth of
a yard wide. The ground-work is formed of Raleigh bars made with picots, and the loops of braid
are filled in with twisted point d'Alençon bars.

This center-piece is very pretty made of ribbon with silk thread for the bars, and in this
event it may be made of any color desired, and added to a spread or scarf of Surah silk or
fine cloth, for which a border to match may be made.

No. 15.

QUEEN ANNE TRAY-CLOTH OF BATTENBURG LACE AND LINEN.

This pretty cloth is intended for a Queen Anne tray, and its lace edges curve upward and just
over the rim of the tray when it is laid upon it. The center is of fine table-linen, while
the edge is formed of Battenburg braid, buttons and fancy stitches. As will be seen, the corner
spaces are filled in with point d'Angleterre rosettes or "spiders," the large border spaces
and corresponding corner ones are filled in with picot bars, while the very fine work seen
in the triangles and square spaces are point de Venise stitches, and half-spiders are made
in the other triangles. The narrow, straight inner border is composed of bars and tiny buttons
arranged as represented. The cloth is hem-stitched before the braid is laid on, and the corners
are cut out from underneath after the work is otherwise completed.

No. 16.

DESIGN FOR A BUTTERFLY IN POINT LACE. (FULL SIZE).

Butterflies for the corners of handkerchiefs, scarf-ends and the points of caps or coiffures
are favorite designs in point and Honiton laces. The one illustrated is very dainty and exceedingly
simple to execute. The upper portion of each wing has a point de reprise ground-work, but the
solid sections are tiny spiders instead of point de reprise triangles. The outer tips of the
wings are filled in with Raleigh bars, while similar bars, point de Bruxelles stitches and
a point d'Angleterre rosette complete the lower wings. Any of the fine point or Honiton braids
may be chosen for the outlining of the butterfly, and a fine over-and-over stitch or fine cord
may be used to mark the lines extending from the head.

No. 17.

DESIGN FOR A DOILY OR HANDKERCHIEF OF POINT OR HONITON LACE.

This design, as illustrated, is of course too small for either a doily or handkerchief, but
an expert lace-maker can enlarge it to any size desired; and the clever amateur will find no
difficulty in doing the same thing, as the outlines are not at all intricate, and may be easily
followed. In sending for the braid for this, or similar designs, it is advisable to permit
the lace-maker addressed to select them, and of course, the thread, since her long experience
enables her at once to correctly judge what materials are appropriate for the articles you
wish to make, especially if she knows the size the article is desired to be. The stitches,
as here indicated, are point d'Angleterre rosettes, and point de fillet, with small "spiders"
on the latter. A dainty picot-braid edges the design.

No. 18.

"CARDINAL'S POINT" LACE.

This engraving represents a modern adaptation of an ancient lace which may be made of fancy
Battenburg braid and plain Raleigh bars. The design is not especially definite in its outlines,
and may be imitated with any variations which may seem pleasing to the copyist. The picots
are made after the method directed at the illustration of point de Venise bars in the department
devoted to stitches. "Cardinal's point" of genuine make is of Italian origin, and in the earlier
eras, was largely used for the decoration of church vestments and draperies.

Nos. 19 and 20.

BATTENBURG EDGING AND INSERTION, WITH CORD.

These two engravings show a very pretty design for Battenburg lace made with a cord finish.
The application of the cord has been fully described elsewhere, where a different design of
the same kind of work is given. In the present instance the spaces are filled in with twisted
bars, "spiders" and rosettes in point d'Angleterre. The specimens from which the engravings
were made are a trifle wider than seen in the pictures; but the width is a matter of individual
taste, and also a result of the braid selected. A professional lace-maker will enlarge or adapt
the design to accord with personal requirements.

No. 21.

TAPE-GUIPURE DESIGN, FOUND IN AN OLD CHURCH.

The design here illustrated was found in the old church of Santa Margherita, in Italy. It was
drawn on parchment, and was undoubtedly intended as a design for altar lace. It was mentioned
in a book of accounts for the year 1592, found in the archives of the church designated and
is therefore of antique origin; but it may be easily adapted to modern methods of lace-making,
and could be appropriately filled in with either Italian or Genoa lace stitches or with a combination
of both, and twisted bars. Done with fancy Battenburg braid, it would be quite similar in effect
to the "Cardinal's Point" illustrated on another page.

No. 22.

BATTENBURG CHURCH LACE.

The engraving opposite illustrates a magnificent specimen of Modern Church Lace made of Battenburg
braid with a limited introduction of Honiton braid. The specimen itself is considerably wider
than represented, but as the width is a matter of individual taste, the engraving will serve
as a design for a narrow church lace.

Sorrento bars are used to connect the braids and to form foundations for the spiders or rosettes
here and there inserted, and the lace is delicately bordered with a dainty picot-braid. The
fancy stitches in the main portions of the cross are point de Valenciennes, while those in
the minor sections are point de Bruxelles.

Point de fillet is used for the central portion of the large T-shaped symbol, while the stitch
forming the other symbol is one never used except for church lace, and consists of two or three
sets of fine stitches so interlaced as to seem to form one solid stitch.

In making church lace any insignia desired can be introduced by a professional designer--an
accomplishment that is usually beyond the inventive powers of the novice in lace-making.

No. 23.

ENGLISH NEEDLE-POINT.

This is a very handsome design combining the lily and the rose. The foundation work is made
with unbleached linen braid having an ornamental edge, and the filling-in is done with fine
and coarse linen thread in various stitches. Raleigh bars with picots define the upper edge
of the edging, and Sorrento bars on which buttons are worked form the ground work.

Point de Grecque, point d'Angleterre, d'Alençon bars plain and twisted, point de Bruxelles
and "spiders" are also used in making this lace, as will be seen from a close inspection of
the engraving.

This specimen of lace is very handsome when developed in black silk braids and silk thread,
for black costumes.

No. 24.

PUNCH-GLASS DOILY OF POINT LACE AND LAWN.

As represented this doily is about three-fourths of its actual size. It is made of fine linen
lawn, and a set generally comprises a dozen. Fine point lace braid is used to outline the design,
and then rosettes in point d'Angleterre, and "spiders" or small rosettes are made in the openings
as represented. The alternate outer scallops are filled in with point de Bruxelles stitches,
and a dainty picot-braid is added to the edge by the usual over-and-over stitch.

No. 25.

POINT LACE COLLAR AND CUFF.

