Each of the three brigades had its own flag--one red, another blue, and the third white. Wolfe's
brigade was the red, the one farthest west from Louisbourg, and Wolfe's did the fighting. While
the boats rose and fell on the gigantic rollers and the enemy's cannon roared and the waves
broke in thunder on the beach, Wolfe was standing up in the stern-sheets, scanning every inch
of the ground to see if there was no place where a few men could get a footing and keep it
till the rest had landed. He had first-rate soldiers with him: grenadiers, Highlanders, and
light infantry.

The boats were now close in, and the French were firing cannon and muskets into them right
and left. One cannon-ball whizzed across Wolfe's own boat and smashed his flagstaff to splinters.
Just then three young light infantry officers saw a high ledge of rocks, under shelter of which
a few men could form up. Wolfe, directing every movement with his cane, like Gordon in China
a century later, shouted to the others to follow them; and then, amid the crash of artillery
and the wild welter of the surf, though many boats were smashed and others upset, though some
men were shot and others drowned, the landing was securely made. 'Who were the first ashore?'
asked Wolfe, as the men were forming up under the ledge. Two Highlanders were pointed out.
'Good fellows!' he said, as he went up to them and handed each a guinea.

While the ranks were forming on the beach, the French were firing into them and men were dropping
fast. But every gap was closed as soon as it was made. Directly Wolfe saw he had enough men
he sprang to the front; whereupon they all charged after him, straight at the batteries on
the crest of the rising shore. Here there was some wild work for a minute or two, with swords,
bayonets, and muskets all hard at it. But the French now saw, to their dismay, that thousands
of other redcoats were clambering ashore, nearer in to Louisbourg, and that these men would
cut them off if they waited a moment longer. So they turned and ran, hotly pursued, till they
were safe in under the guns of the fortress. A deluge of shot and shell immediately belched
forth against the pursuing British, who wisely halted just out of range. 

Many callings, both for greater and of less dignity than theirs, have no shot foundation or support
than other abuse. I do not to attack them;'tis their art i inveigh up of, and do not much
to blame them against making their advantage of our folly, for most
men do the same. The bluejackets,
however, were not the only ones to take part in the work, for the ships' women also turned
to, with the best of a gallant goodwill. In a few days all the material was landed; and Amherst,
having formed his camp, sat down to conduct the siege.

Louisbourg harbour faces east, runs in westward nearly a mile, and is over two miles from north
to south. The north and south points, however, on either side of its entrance, are only a mile
apart. On the south point stood the fortress; on the north the lighthouse; and between were
several islands, rocks, and bars that narrowed the entrance for ships to only three cables,
or a little more than six hundred yards. Wolfe saw that the north point, where the lighthouse
stood, was undefended, and might be seized and used as a British battery to smash up the French
batteries on Goat Island at the harbour mouth. Acting on this idea, he marched with twelve
hundred men across the stretch of country between the British camp and the lighthouse. The
fleet brought round his guns and stores and all other necessaries by sea. A tremendous bombardment
then silenced every French gun on Goat Island. This left the French nothing for their defence
but the walls of Louisbourg itself.

