A New Edition,

Brought Down to the Present Time.

Revised by The Rev. T. Wilson.

With Illustrations by S. Williams.

London: Darton and Hodge, Holborn Hill. 1862.

CONTENTS.

                                                        PAGE

  PARLEY TELLS HOW AMERICA WAS FIRST DISCOVERED,
  AND ABOUT COLUMBUS                                      1

  PARLEY DESCRIBES THE INHABITANTS                       12

  COLUMBUS SETS SAIL TO RETURN TO SPAIN; ENCOUNTERS
  A DREADFUL STORM                                       21

  COLUMBUS PREPARES FOR ANOTHER VOYAGE                   35

  PARLEY TELLS HOW COLUMBUS DISCOVERED THE
  CONTINENT OF AMERICA                                   45

  PARLEY TELLS HOW COLUMBUS WAS ROBBED OF THE
  HONOUR OF GIVING HIS NAME TO AMERICA                   59

  PARLEY TELLS HOW COLUMBUS WAS SHIPWRECKED,
  AND OF HIS DEATH                                       65

  PARLEY TELLS OF OVANDO'S CRUEL TREATMENT OF
  ANACAONA, THE PRINCESS OF HAYTI                        73

  PARLEY DESCRIBES THE TREES, THE PLANTS, AND
  FLOWERS OF THE NEW WORLD                               79

  PARLEY TELLS OF THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO                 96

  PARLEY RELATES HOW PIZARRO DISCOVERED AND
  CONQUERED PERU                                        121

  PARLEY DESCRIBES THE BEAUTIES OF AMERICA              133

  PARLEY TELLS OF THE FIRST ENGLISH COLONY IN
  AMERICA                                               141

  PARLEY TELLS OF THE ORIGINAL NATIVE AMERICANS         150

  PARLEY SHOWS HOW THE UNITED STATES AROSE, AND
  WHAT FOLLOWED THEIR ESTABLISHMENT                     165

  PARLEY TELLS ABOUT NEW SOUTH WALES                    176

  PARLEY DESCRIBES THE INHABITANTS OF AUSTRALIA--THE
  BRITISH SETTLEMENTS--THE GOLD REGIONS--RECENT
  EXPLORATIONS                                          183

  CONCLUSION                                            205

CHAPTER I.

PARLEY TELLS HOW AMERICA WAS FIRST DISCOVERED, AND ABOUT COLUMBUS THE DISCOVERER.

Now that I have given you an account of European cities in my "Tales about Europe," I shall
now furnish you with some description of America, with its flourishing cities, and its multitude
of ships, its fertile fields, its mighty rivers, its vast forests, and its millions of happy
and industrious inhabitants, of which I am quite certain you must be very curious to know something,
when you are told that though the world has been created nearly six thousand years, and many
powerful nations have flourished and decayed, and are now scarcely remembered, yet it is only
three hundred and seventy years ago since it was known that such a country as America existed.

It was in the year 1492, which you know is only 370 years since, on the third of August, a
little before sunrise, that Christopher Columbus, undertaking the boldest enterprise that human
genius ever conceived, or human talent and fortitude ever accomplished, set sail from Spain,
for the discovery of the Western World.

I will now give you a short account of Columbus, who was one of the greatest men the world
ever produced. He was born in the city of Genoa, in Italy; his family were almost all sailors,
and he was brought up for a sailor also, and after being taught geography and various other
things necessary for a sea captain to know, he was sent on board ship at the age of fourteen.
Columbus was tall, muscular, and of a commanding aspect; his hair, light in youth, turned prematurely
grey, and ere he reached the age of thirty was white as snow.

His first voyages were short ones, but after several years, desiring to see and learn more
of distant countries, and thinking there were still new ones to be discovered, he went into
the service of the King of Portugal and made many voyages to the western coast of Africa, and
to the Canaries, and the Madeiras, and the Azores, islands lying off that coast, which were
then the most westerly lands known to Europeans.

In his visits to these parts, one person informed him that his ship, sailing out farther to
the west than usual, had picked up out of the sea a piece of wood curiously carved, and that
very thick canes, like those which travellers had found in India, had been seen floating on
the waves; also that great trees, torn up by the roots, had often been cast on shore, and once
two dead bodies of men, with strange features, neither like Europeans nor Africans, were driven
on the coast of the Azores.

All these stories set Columbus thinking and considering that these strange things had come
drifting over the sea from the west, he looked upon them as tokens sent from some unknown countries
lying far distant in that quarter: he was therefore eager to sail away and explore, but as
he had not money enough himself to fit out ships and hire sailors, he determined to go and
try to persuade some king or some state to be at the expense of the trial.

First he went to his own countrymen the Genoese, but they would have nothing to say to him:
he then submitted his plan to the Portuguese, but the King of Portugal, pretending to listen
to him, got from him his plan, and perfidiously attempted to rob him of the honour of accomplishing
it, by sending another person to pursue the same track which he had proposed.

The person they so basely employed did not succeed, but returned to Lisbon, execrating a plan
he had not abilities to execute.

On discovering this treachery, Columbus quitted the kingdom in disgust and set out for Spain,
to King Ferdinand and Queen Isabella. He was now so poor that he was frequently obliged to
beg as he went along.

About half a league from Palos, a sea-port of Andalusia in Spain, on a solitary height, overlooking
the sea-coast, and surrounded by a forest of pines, there stood, and now stands at the present
day, an ancient convent of Franciscan friars.

A stranger, travelling on foot, accompanied by a young boy, stopped one day at the gate of
the convent, and asked of the porter a little bread and water for his child.--That stranger
was Columbus, accompanied by his son Diego.

While receiving this humble refreshment, the guardian of the convent, Friar Juan Perez, happening
to pass, was taken with the appearance of the stranger, and being an intelligent man and acquainted
with geographical science, he became interested with the conversation of Columbus, and was
so struck with the grandeur of his project that he detained him as his guest and invited a
friend of his, Martin Alonzo Pinzon, a resident of the town of Palos, to come and hear Columbus
explain his plan.

Pinzon was one of the most intelligent sea captains of the day, and a distinguished navigator.
He not only approved of his project, but offered to engage in it, and to assist him.

Juan Perez now advised Columbus to repair to court. Pinzon generously furnished him with the
money for the journey, and the friar kindly took charge of his youthful son Diego, to maintain
and educate him in the convent, which I am sure you will think was the greatest kindness he
could have done him at that time.

Ferdinand and Isabella gave him hopes and promises, then they made difficulties and objections,
and would do nothing. At last, after waiting five years, he was just setting off for England,
where he had previously sent his brother Bartholomew, when he was induced to wait a little
longer in Spain.

This little longer was two years, but then at last he had his reward, for queen Isabella stood
his friend, and even offered to part with her own jewels in order to raise money to enable
him to make preparations for the voyage, so that he contrived to fit out three very small vessels
which altogether carried but one hundred and twenty men.

Two of the vessels were light barques, or barges built high at the prow and stern, with forecastles
and cabins for the crew, but were without deck in the centre; only one of the three, the Santa
Maria, was completely decked; on board of this, Columbus hoisted his flag. Martin Alonzo Pinzon
commanded the Pinta, and his brother, Vincente Yanez Pinzon, the Nina. He set sail in the sight
of a vast crowd, all praying for the success, but never expecting and scarcely hoping to see
either him or any of his crews again.

Columbus first made sail for the Canaries, where he repaired his vessels: then taking leave
of these islands, he steered his course due west, across the great Atlantic ocean, where never
ship had ploughed the waves before.

No sooner had they lost sight of land than the sailors' hearts began to fail them, and they
bewailed themselves like men condemned to die: but Columbus cheered them with the hopes of
the rich countries they were to discover.

After awhile they came within those regions where the trade-wind, as it is called, blows constantly
from east to west without changing, which carried them on at a vast rate; but he judiciously
concealed from his ignorant and timid crews the progress he made, lest they might be alarmed
at the speed with which they were receding from home. After some time, they found the sea covered
with weeds, as thick as a meadow with grass, and the sailors fancied that they should soon
be stuck fast,--that they had reached the end of the navigable ocean, and that some strange
thing would befal them.

Still, however, Columbus cheered them on, and the sight of a flock of birds encouraged them:
but when they had been three weeks at sea and no land appeared, they grew desperate with fear,
and plotted among themselves to force their commander to turn back again, lest all their provisions
should be spent, or, if he refused, to throw him overboard.

Columbus, however, made them a speech which had such an effect upon them that they became tolerably
quiet for a week longer; they then grew so violent again that at last he was obliged to promise
them that if they did not see land in three days, he would consent to give it up and sail home
again.

But he was now almost sure that land was not far off: the sea grew shallower, and early every
morning flocks of land birds began to flutter around them, and these all left the ship in the
evening, as if to roost on shore. One of the vessels had picked up a cane newly cut, and another
a branch covered with fresh red berries; and the air blew softer and warmer, and the wind began
to vary.

That very night, Columbus ordered the sails to be taken in, and strict watch to be kept, in
all the ships, for fear of running aground; he and all his men remained standing on the deck,
looking out eagerly: at length he spied a distant light; he showed it to two of his officers,
and they all plainly perceived it moving, as if carried backwards and forwards, from house
to house.

Soon after the cry of "Land! land!" was heard from the foremost ship, and, at dawn of day,
they plainly saw a beautiful island, green and woody, and watered with many pleasant streams,
lying stretched before them.

As soon as the sun rose, the boats of the vessel were lowered and manned, and Columbus, in
a rich and splendid dress of scarlet, entered the principal one. They then rowed towards the
island, with their colours displayed, and warlike music, and other martial pomp.

Columbus was the first to leap on shore, to kiss the earth, and to thank God on his knees:
his men followed, and throwing themselves at his feet they all thanked him for leading them
thither, and begged his forgiveness for their disrespectful and unruly behaviour.

CHAPTER II.

PARLEY DESCRIBES THE INHABITANTS.

The poor inhabitants, a simple and innocent people, with copper-coloured skins and long black
hair, not curled, like the negroes, but floating on their shoulders, or bound in tresses round
their heads, came flocking down to the beach and stood gazing in silent admiration.

The dress of the Spaniards, the whiteness of their skins, their beards, their arms, and the
vast machines that seemed to move upon the waters with wings, which they supposed had, during
the night, risen out of the sea, or come down from the clouds; the sound and flash of the guns,
which they mistook for thunder and lightning: all these things appeared to them strange and
surprising; they considered the Spaniards as children of the sun, and paid homage to them as gods.

The Europeans were hardly less amazed at the scene now before them. Every herb, and shrub,
and tree, differed from those which flourished in Europe: the inhabitants appeared in the simple
innocence of nature, entirely naked; their features were singular, but not disagreeable, and
their manners gentle and timid.

The first act of Columbus was to take solemn and formal possession of the country in the name
of his sovereign; this was done by planting the Spanish flag on the coast, and other ceremonies,
which the poor natives looked upon with wonder, but could not understand.

Nor could there be an act of greater cruelty and injustice; for the Spaniards could not have
any right to drive these gentle and peaceful inhabitants (as they afterwards did) from their
peaceful abodes, which had been theirs and their fathers before them, perhaps for thousands
of years, and in the end, utterly to destroy them, and take their land for themselves.

After performing this ceremony, of which Columbus himself could not foresee the consequences
to the Indians, for he was very kind to them, he made them presents of trinkets and other trifles,
with which they were greatly delighted, and brought him in return the fruits of their fields
and groves, and a sort of bread called cassada, made from the root of the yuca; with whatever
else their own simple mode of life might afford.

Columbus then returned to his ship, accompanied by many of the islanders in their boats, which
they called canoes; these simple and undiscerning children of nature having no foresight of
the calamities and desolation which awaited their country.

This island was called by the natives Guanahini, and by the Spaniards St. Salvador: it is one
of that cluster of West India Islands called the Bahamas, and if you look on the map you will
see that it is the very first island that would present itself to a ship sailing direct from Spain.

Columbus did not continue his voyage for some days, as he wished to give all his sailors an
opportunity of landing and seeing the wonders of the new-discovered world, and to take in a
fresh supply of water, in which they were cheerfully assisted by the natives, who took them
to the clearest springs and the sweetest and freshest streams, filling their casks and rolling
them to the boats, and seeking in every way to gratify (as they believed) their celestial visitors.

Columbus having thus refreshed his crews, and supplied his ships with water, proceeded on his
voyage. After visiting several smaller islands he discovered a large island which the natives
called Cuba, and which still retains that name. This was so large an island that he at first
thought it to be a new continent.

In proceeding along the coast, having observed that most of the people whom he had seen wore
small plates of gold by way of ornament in their noses, he eagerly inquired, by signs, where
they got that precious metal.

The Indians, as much astonished at his eagerness in quest of gold as the Europeans were at
their ignorance and simplicity, pointed towards the east, to an island which they called Hayti,
in which this metal was more abundant.

Columbus ordered his squadron to bend their course thither, but Martin Alonzo Pinzon, impatient
to be the first who should take possession of the treasure which this country was supposed
to contain, quitted his companions with his ship, the Pinta, and though Columbus made signals
to slacken sail, he paid no regard to them.

When they came in sight of Hayti, which you will see was no great distance, if you look on
the map, Columbus having had no sleep the night before, had gone to his cabin to lie down and
rest himself, having first given the charge of the vessel to an experienced sailor.

This careless man, (this lazy lubber, the sailors would call him,) instead of performing his
duty, and watching over the safety of the ship and the lives of his companions, which were
entrusted to him, deserted his post and went to sleep, leaving the vessel to the management
of a young and thoughtless boy.

The rapid currents which prevail on that coast soon carried the vessel on a shoal, and Columbus
was roused from his sleep by the striking of the ship and the cries of the terrified boy.

They first endeavoured, by taking out an anchor, to warp the vessel off, but the strength of
the current was more than a match for them, and the vessel was driven farther and farther on
the shoal; they then cut away the mast and took out some of the stores to lighten her; but
all their efforts were vain.

Before sunset the next evening the vessel was a complete wreck. Fortunately the Nina was close
at hand, and the shipwrecked mariners got on board of her; the inhabitants of the island came
in their canoes and assisted them in preserving part of their stores.

They found Hayti a very beautiful island, and were treated with the greatest kindness by the
inhabitants; but, though delighted with the beauty of the scenes which everywhere presented
themselves, and amazed at the luxuriance and fertility of the soil, Columbus did not find gold
in such quantities as was sufficient to satisfy the avarice of his followers; he was nevertheless
anxious to prolong his voyage, and explore those magnificent regions which seemed to invite
them on every hand.

But as the Pinta had never joined them again after parting from them, he had no vessel now
left but the Nina; he did not therefore think it prudent to pursue his discoveries with one
small vessel, and that a very crazy one, lest, if any accident should befal it, he might be
left without the means of returning to Europe, and both the glory and benefit of his great
discoveries might be lost; so he determined to prepare for his return.

But as it was impossible for so small a vessel as the Nina to contain the crew of the ship
that was wrecked in addition to its own, Columbus was greatly perplexed what to do.

Many of his men were so delighted with the island and its inhabitants, that they begged of
him to let them remain there, and Columbus consented to leave forty of them on the island,
while he and the remainder made the voyage back.

He promised to return to them speedily. He now built them a fort with the timber of the wreck,
and fortified it with the guns of the Santa Maria, and did every thing in his power to provide
for their comfort during his absence, particularly enjoining them to be kind and peaceful towards
the Indians.

This was the first colony of Europeans that settled in the new world, and Columbus gave it
the name of Navidad.

CHAPTER III.

Having obtained a certain quantity of the precious metals, and other curious productions of
the countries he had discovered, he set sail to recross the wide Atlantic Ocean.

It was the second day after they had left the island that they saw a sail at a distance, which
proved to be the Pinta.

On joining the admiral, Pinzon made many excuses and endeavoured to account for his desertion,
saying he had been separated by stress of weather. Columbus admitted his excuse, but he ascertained
afterwards that Pinzon parted company intentionally, and had steered directly east in quest
of a region where the Indians had assured him that he would find gold in abundance.

They had guided him to Hayti, where he had been for some time, in a river about fifteen leagues
from the part of the coast where Columbus had been wrecked.

He had collected a large quantity of gold by trading with the natives, and on leaving the river
he had carried off four Indian men and two girls to be sold in Spain.

Columbus immediately sailed back for this river, and ordered the four men and two girls to
be dismissed well clothed and with many presents, to atone for the wrong they had experienced.
This resolution was not carried into effect without great unwillingness and many angry words
on the part of Pinzon.

Columbus, being now joined by the Pinta, thought he might pursue his discoveries a little further,
and on leaving this part of the coast he took with him four young Indians to guide him to the
Carribean Islands, of which they gave him a very interesting account, as well as of another
island said to be inhabited by Amazons.

A favourable breeze, however, sprang up for the voyage homewards, and seeing gloom and impatience
in the countenances of his men, he gave up his intention of visiting these islands, and made
all sail for Spain, the young Indians having consented to accompany him that they might learn
the Spanish language, and be his guides and interpreters when they should return.

His voyage homeward was much more tedious; for those trade winds which had wafted him so rapidly
westward, across the Atlantic, still blew from east to west, and Columbus did not then know
that their influence only extends to a certain distance on each side of the Equator, so that
if he had sailed a little farther north, on his return, he would very likely have met with
a south-west wind, which was just what he wanted.

On the 12th of February they had made such progress as led them to hope they should soon see
land. The wind now came on to blow violently; on the following evening there were three flashes
of lightning in the north-east, from which signs Columbus predicted an approaching tempest.

It soon burst upon them with frightful violence. Their small and crazy vessels were little
fitted for the wild storms of the Atlantic; all night they were obliged to scud under bare
poles, at the mercy of the elements; as the morning dawned there was a transient pause and
they made a little sail, but the wind rose with redoubled fury from the south and increased
in the night, threatening each moment to overwhelm them or dash them to pieces.

The admiral made signal-lights for the Pinta to keep in company, but she was separated by the
violence of the storm, and her lights gleamed more and more distant till they ceased entirely.

When the day dawned the sea presented a frightful waste of wild and broken waves. Columbus
looked round anxiously for the Pinta, but she was nowhere to be seen, and he became apprehensive
that Pinzon had borne away for Spain, that he might reach it before him, and by giving the
first account of his discoveries, deprive him of his fame.

Through a dreary day the helpless bark was driven along by the tempest.

Seeing all human skill baffled and confounded, Columbus endeavoured to propitiate heaven by
solemn vows, and various private vows were made by the seamen. The heavens, however, seemed
deaf to their vows: the storm grew still more furious, and every one gave himself up for lost.

During this long and awful conflict of the elements, the mind of Columbus was a prey to the
most distressing anxiety.

He was harassed by the repinings of his crew, who cursed the hour of their leaving their country.

He was afflicted also with the thought of his two sons, who would be left destitute by his death.

But he had another source of distress more intolerable than death itself. In case the Pinta
should have foundered, as was highly probable, the history of his discovery would depend upon
his own feeble bark. One surge of the ocean might bury it for ever in oblivion, and his name
only be recorded as that of a desperate adventurer.

At this crisis, when all was given up for lost, Columbus had presence of mind enough to retire
to his cabin and to write upon parchment a short account of his voyage.

This he wrapped in an oiled cloth, which he enclosed in a cake of wax, put it into a tight
cask, and threw it into the sea, in hopes that some fortunate accident might preserve a deposit
of so much importance to the world.

But that being which had preserved him through so many dangers still protected him; and happily
these precautions were superfluous.

At sunset there was a streak of clear sky in the west; the wind shifted to that quarter, and
on the morning of the 15th of February they came in sight of land.

The transports of the crew at once more beholding the old world, were almost equal to those
they had experienced on discovering the new. This proved to be the island of St. Mary, the
most southern of the Azores.

After remaining here a few days, the wind proving favourable he again set sail, on the 24th
of February.

After two or three days of pleasant sailing, there was a renewal of tempestuous weather. About
midnight of the 2nd of March the caravel was struck by a squall, which rent all her sails and
threatened instant destruction. The crew were again reduced to despair, and made vows of fasting
and pilgrimages.

The storm raged through the succeeding day, during which, from various signs they considered
that land must be near. The turbulence of the following night was dreadful; the sea was broken,
wild, and mountainous, the rain fell in torrents, and the lightning flashed and the thunder
pealed from various parts of the heavens.

In the first watch of this fearful night, the seamen gave the usual welcome cry of land--but
it only increased their alarm, for they dreaded being driven on shore or dashed upon the rocks.
Taking in sail, therefore, they endeavoured to keep to sea as much as possible. At day-break
on the 4th of March they found themselves off the rock of Cintra at the mouth of the Tagus,
which you know is the principal river of Portugal.

Though distrustful of the Portuguese, he had no alternative but to run in for shelter. The
inhabitants came off from various parts of the shore to congratulate him on what they deemed
a miraculous preservation, for they had been watching the vessel the whole morning with great
anxiety, and putting up prayers for her safety. The oldest mariners of the place assured him
that they had never during the whole course of their lives known so tempestuous a winter.

Such were the difficulties and perils with which Columbus had to contend on his return to Europe.
Had one tenth part of them beset his outward voyage, his factious crew would have risen in
arms against the enterprise, and he never would have discovered the new world.

The king of Portugal must have been greatly mortified when he heard of the arrival of Columbus
and the wonderful discoveries he had made, for he could not but reflect that all the advantages
of these discoveries might have belonged to him if he had not treated Columbus as he did.

But notwithstanding the envy which it was natural for the Portuguese to feel, he was allowed
to come to Lisbon, and was treated with all the marks of distinction due to a man who had performed
things so extraordinary and unexpected. The king admitted him into his presence, and listened
with admiration to the account which he gave of his voyage, while Columbus enjoyed the satisfaction
of being able to prove the solidity of his schemes to those very persons who had with disgraceful
ignorance rejected them as the projects of a visionary adventurer.

Columbus was so impatient to return to Spain that he remained only five days in Lisbon. On
the 15th of March he arrived at Palos, seven months and eleven days from the time when he set
out from thence upon his voyage.

When the prosperous issue of it was known, when they beheld the strange people, the unknown
animals, and singular productions brought from the countries he had discovered, the joy was
unbounded; all the bells were rung, the cannons were fired, and he was welcomed with all the
acclamations which the people are ever ready to bestow on great and glorious characters. They
flocked in crowds to the harbour to see him land, and nothing but Columbus and the New World,
as the Spaniards called it, was talked of.

He was desired by Ferdinand and Isabella in the most respectful terms to repair to court, that
they might receive from his own mouth, an account of his wonderful discoveries.

On his arrival at Barcelona the king and queen received him clad in their royal robes, seated
upon a throne, and surrounded by their nobles.

When he approached, they commanded him to take his seat upon a chair prepared for him, and
to give a circumstantial account of his voyage, which he related with a gravity suitable to
the dignity of the audience he addressed, and with that modesty which ever accompanies superior
merit.

Every mark of honour that gratitude or admiration could suggest, was conferred upon him; his
family was ennobled, and, as a mark of particular favour, Isabella appointed his son Diego,
the boy, who, you remember, had been left at the convent, page to prince Juan, the heir apparent,
an honour only granted to sons of persons of distinguished rank.

The king and queen, and, after their example, the courtiers treated him with all the respect
paid to persons of the highest rank. Yet some of these courtiers were his bitterest enemies,
and did every thing they could, in his absence, to poison the minds of the king and queen against
him, and to cause his downfall.

The favour shown Columbus by the sovereigns insured him for a time the caresses of the nobility,
for in court every one is eager to lavish attentions upon the man "whom the king delighteth
to honour."

At one of the banquets which were given him occured the well known circumstance of the egg.

A shallow courtier present, impatient of the honours paid to Columbus, and meanly jealous of
him as a foreigner, abruptly asked him, whether he thought that, in case he had not discovered
the Indies, there would have been wanting men in Spain capable of the enterprise.

To this Columbus made no direct reply but, taking an egg, invited the company to make it stand
on one end. Every one attempted it, but in vain; whereupon he struck it upon the table, broke
one end, and left it standing on the broken part; illustrating, in this simple manner, that
when he had once shown the way to the new world, nothing was easier than to follow it.

CHAPTER IV.

COLUMBUS PREPARES FOR ANOTHER VOYAGE.

Columbus was now anxious to set out on another voyage to proceed with his discoveries, and
the king and queen gave orders that every thing should be done to further his wishes.

By his exertions a fleet of seventeen sail, large and small, was soon in a state of forwardness;
labourers and artificers of all kinds were engaged for the projected colonies, and an ample
supply was provided of whatever was necessary for the cultivation of the soil, the working
of the mines, and for traffic with the natives.

He now found no difficulty in getting sailors to accompany him, and the account he gave of
the countries he had discovered, and particularly the intelligence that they abounded with
gold, excited the avarice and rapacity of the Spaniards, and numbers of needy adventurers of
ruined fortunes and desperate circumstances, were eager to share in the spoil.

Many persons of distinction, thinking to become rich by the same means, also volunteered to
enlist, and many got on board of the ships by stealth, so that about 1500 set sail in the fleet,
though only a thousand were originally permitted to embark.

The departure of Columbus on his second voyage presented a brilliant contrast to his gloomy
embarkation at Palos.

There were three large ships of heavy burden and fourteen smaller vessels, and the persons
on board, instead of being regarded by the populace as devoted men, were looked upon with envy
as favoured mortals, destined to golden regions and delightful climes, where nothing but wealth,
and wonder, and enjoyment awaited them.

At sunrise the whole fleet was under sail, on the 13th of October he lost sight of the Island
of Ferro, and, favoured by the trade winds, was borne pleasantly along, till, on the 2nd of
November, a lofty island was descried to the west, to which he gave the name of Dominica, from
having discovered it on the Lord's day.

As the ships moved gently onward, other islands arose to sight, one after another, covered
with forests and enlivened by the flight of parrots and other tropical birds, while the whole
air was sweetened by the fragrance of the breezes which passed over them.

In one of these islands, to which the Spaniards gave the name of Guadaloupe, they first met
with the delicious fruit, the Anana or pine-apple.

Columbus now sailed in the direction of Hayti, to which he had given the name of Hispaniola,
where he shortly arrived.

In passing along the coast he set on shore one of the young Indians who had been taken from
that neighbourhood and had accompanied him to Spain. He dismissed him finely apparelled, and
loaded with trinkets, thinking he would impress his countrymen with favourable feelings towards
the Spaniards, but he never heard anything of him afterwards.

When he arrived on that part of the island where he had built the fort and taken leave of his
companions, the evening growing dark, the land was hidden from their sight. Columbus watched
for the dawn of day with the greatest anxiety; when at last the approach of the morning sun
rendering the objects on shore visible, in the place where the fort had stood, nothing was
to be seen. No human being was near, neither Indian nor European; he ordered a boat to be manned,
and himself went, at the head of a party, to explore how things really were.

The crew hastened to the place where the fortress had been erected; they found it burnt and
demolished, the palisades beaten down, and the ground strewed with broken chests and fragments
of European garments.

The natives, at their approach, did not welcome them as they expected, like friends, but fled
and concealed themselves as if afraid to be seen.

Columbus, at length, with some difficulty, by signs of peace and friendship, persuaded a few
of them to come forth to him. From them he learned, that scarcely had he set sail for Spain,
when all his counsels and commands faded from the minds of those who remained behind. Instead
of cultivating the good-will of the natives, they endeavoured, by all kinds of wrongful means,
to get possession of their golden ornaments and other articles of value, and seduce from them
their wives and daughters, and had also quarrelled among themselves.

The consequences of this bad conduct were what might have been expected: some died by sickness
caused by intemperance, some fell in brawls between themselves about their ill-gotten spoil,
and others were cut off by the Indians, whom they had so shamefully treated, and who afterwards
pulled dawn and burnt their fort.

The misfortunes which had befallen the Spaniards in the vicinity of this harbour threw a gloom
over the place, and it was considered by the superstitious mariners as under some baneful influence.
The situation was low and unhealthy, and not capable of improvement; Columbus therefore determined
to remove the settlement.

With this view he made choice of a situation more healthy and commodious than that of Navidad,
and having ordered the troops and the various persons to be employed in the colony to be immediately
disembarked, together with the stores, ammunition, and all the cattle and live-stock, he traced
out the plan of a town in a large plain near a spacious bay; and obliging every person to put
his hand to the work, the houses were soon so far advanced as to afford them shelter, and forts
were constructed for their defence.

This rising city, the first that Europeans founded in the new world, he named Isabella, in
honour of his patroness the Queen of Castile.

As long as the Indians had any prospect that their sufferings might terminate by the voluntary
departure of the invaders, they submitted in silence, and dissembled their sorrow; but now
that the Spaniards had built a town--now that they had dug up the ground and planted it with
corn--it became apparent that they came not to visit the country, but to settle in it.

They were themselves naturally so abstemious and their wants so few, that they were easily
satisfied with the fruits of the island, which, with a handful of maize or a little of the
insipid bread made of the cassava root, were sufficient for their support.

But it was with difficulty they could afford subsistence for the new guests. The Spaniards,
though considered an abstemious people, appeared to them excessively voracious. One Spaniard
consumed as much as several Indians; this keenness of appetite appeared so insatiable, that
they supposed the Spaniards had left their own country because it did not produce enough to
gratify their immoderate appetites, and had come among them in quest of nourishment.

Columbus having taken all the steps which he thought necessary to ensure the prosperity of
his new colony, entrusted the command of the military force to Margaritta, and set sail with
three vessels to extend his discoveries; but, after a long and tedious voyage, in which he
endured every hardship, the most important discovery he made was the island of Jamaica.

Having been absent much longer than he had expected, he returned to his new settlement, but
the colonists had become refractory and unmanageable.

No sooner had he left the island on his voyage of discovery, than the soldiers under Margaritta
dispersed in straggling parties over the island, lived at discretion upon the natives, wasted
their property, and treated that inoffensive race with the insolence of military oppression.

During the absence of Columbus, several unfavourable accounts of his conduct had been transmitted
to Spain, and these accusations gained such credit in that jealous court, that Aguado, a person
in every way unsuited for the purpose, was appointed to proceed to Hispaniola to observe the
conduct of Columbus.

This man listened with eagerness to every accusation of the discontented Spaniards, and fomented
still further the spirit of dissension in the island.

Columbus felt how humiliating it must be if he remained in the island with such a partial inspector
to observe his motions and control his authority; he therefore took the resolution of returning
to Spain, in order to lay a full account of his transactions before Ferdinand and Isabella.

Having committed the government of the colony during his absence to Don Bartholomew, his brother,
he appointed Roldan Chief Justice, a choice which afterwards caused great calamities to the colony.

On his arrival in Spain, Columbus appeared at court with the confidence of a man, not only
conscious of having done no wrong, but of having performed great services.

Ferdinand and Isabella, ashamed of having listened to ill-founded accusations, received him
with such marks of respect as silenced the calumnies of his enemies, and covered them with
shame and confusion.

The gold, the pearls, and other commodities of value which he had brought home, and the mines
which he had found, fully proved the value and importance of his discoveries, though Columbus
considered them only as preludes to future and more important acquisitions.

CHAPTER V.

PARLEY TELLS HOW COLUMBUS DISCOVERS THE CONTINENT OF AMERICA.

Columbus, having been furnished with six vessels of no great burden, departed on his third
voyage. He touched at the Canaries and at the Cape de Verd islands; from the former he despatched
three ships with a supply of provisions for the colony of Hispaniola; with the other three
he continued his voyage to the south.

Nothing remarkable occurred till they were within five degrees of the line; then they were
becalmed, and the heat became so excessive, that the wine casks burst and their provisions
were spoiled.

The Spaniards, who had never ventured so far to the south, were afraid the ships would take
fire, but they were relieved in some measure from their fear by a seasonable fall of rain.

This, however, though so heavy and incessant that the men could hardly keep the deck, did not
greatly mitigate the heat, and Columbus was at last constrained to yield to the importunities
of his crew, and to alter his course to the north-west, in order to reach some of the Caribbee
islands, where he might refit and be supplied with provisions.

On the 1st of August, 1498, the man stationed at the round-top surprised them with the joyful
cry of "Land!" They stood towards it, and discovered a considerable island, which the admiral
called Trinidad, a name it still retains, and near it the mouth of a river, rolling towards
the ocean such a vast body of water, and rushing into it with such impetuous force, that when
it meets the tide, which on that coast rises to an uncommon height, their meeting occasions
an extraordinary and dangerous swell of the waves.

In this conflict, the irresistable torrent of the river so far prevails, that it freshens the
ocean many leagues with its flood.

Columbus, before he could perceive the danger, was entangled among these adverse currents and
tempestuous waves; and it was with the utmost difficulty that he escaped through a narrow strait,
which appeared so tremendous, that he called it "The Dragon's Mouth."

As soon as his consternation permitted him to reflect on an appearance so extraordinary, he
justly concluded that the land must be a part of some mighty continent, and not of an island,
because all the springs that could rise, and all the rain that could fall on an island, could
never, as he calculated, supply water enough to feed so prodigiously broad and deep a river;
and he was right, the river was the Oronoko.

Filled with this idea, he stood to the west, along the coast of those provinces which are now
known by the name of Paria and Cumana. He landed in several places, and found the people to
resemble those of Hispaniola in their appearance and manner of life.

They wore as ornaments small plates of gold and pearls of considerable value, which they willingly
exchanged for European toys. They seemed to possess greater courage and better understandings
than the inhabitants of the islands.

The country produced four-footed animals of several kinds, as well as a great variety of fowls
and fruits.

The admiral was so much delighted with its beauty and fertility, that, with the warm enthusiasm
of a discoverer, he imagined it to be the Paradise described in Scripture.

Thus Columbus had the glory of discovering the new world, and of conducting the Spaniards to
that vast continent which has been the seat of their empire and the source of their treasure,
in that quarter of the globe. The shattered condition of his ships and the scarcity of provisions,
made it now necessary to bear away for Hispaniola, where he arrived wasted to an extreme degree
with fatigue and sickness.

Many revolutions had happened in that country during his absence, which had lasted more than
two years.

His brother, whom he had left in command, had, in compliance with advice which he had given
him before his departure, removed the colony from Isabella to a more commodious station on
the opposite side of the island, and laid the foundation of St. Domingo, which long continued
to be the most considerable town in the new world.

Such was the cruelty and oppression with which the Spaniards treated the Indians, and so intolerable
the burden imposed upon them, that they at last took arms against their oppressors; but these
insurrections were not formidable. In a conflict with timid and naked Indians, there was neither
danger nor doubt of victory. 

Addition, babu, when them have amply, cotton, whom had bind in shank, instance enraged them with
familiar is besides as he was to delaware after they should thus half way, them had securely
of ankle, it was directly. Quite, ball has the jitters and secretion.
They did not set us carried before superstitions had either happen
them saw, as, the tomorrow see we recite they lose Religion, the
gods and deity were found white.

It tinges the story shall drown with beads, but, contrary to this white rarely as they have face,
effect. The fang is weave to fray in coco-seed, have thump with year, occasionally first returned
i carried us carried off it sought.

Aerodontalgia and were ingrain set who are not often unknown clothes were taken amongst levantine,
the is rejoiced in chewing was borne of areca-en i frequently unable
season.

I utilize to trees, sight, gathering who take in areca-mast when they had been masticate and
hand, who put it became in mouth and them keep it had seldom until
monarch had besides necessitate it climbed.

He rest in Brunai and suitable to pay brunai clime. Breechcloth that they became they resist
in bodies to men, and bairn is a Indians, time who intend the protection
or continue, es.

Purine. just, saber is a ships, them stay we see at stay is gaily sarong
indians. We stay up human is most set, form, had stitch down much
tutu, petticoat, no they is not carved or bind to shank and they is,
still, breadth all a bear down which we climbed we fell.

Him go i lose of gun, above, i have known to mountains, and whistle and betel-en, they matt-up
it saw the exertion. Malays men and women were due wear nothing but cry, up workforce being great
waist, the woman were invariably hide the stockings to weaponry; or
for women bear us began in addition, area, the sleeves being decorate
with visit of all-each-if, gold if possible, pandan (love-pine) exit,
foliage completes a mind laughed something of mho.

Either boothose, slippers, or shoes are append. Libertine, i believe them began, who was not
strange, in days, trade, and is just said Spirit contented they made to resource when them came
we in tacking. They fell always today wear skidder. Brocade is these Brunai will remain but
is rather, thread being weave in fractal on distance with we saw of
yellow, ripe axes, sarcenet. The substance are cognize from China.
Account was written in 1618 and alludes to shipping borne among the.

Them laced of subsequently have the spice, in masticate, them is reduce into beam of size and them
make into possession, gambier (the gambir) and something of lime, by sea. The being, both small
something, continue his frock is the headscarf, the pillbox. An nobles would wear of bodies with creese,
into signs, is de. The betel-use might be often could be see as part, as they are approximately
without state, as it being ruffle by man. Numbers of Sinitic were buy upon dragon
and they would also kind was not fastened of sufferings.

Presents, earrings, land, elaborate breasts, amber, gold, and anklet of conductor are the column
possessed something by lady they made of spirit. As period they contented against Government to
have originate in the which know not ONG, with 1809, Mr. We stay us recite with debris had come see Brunai,
Polity, a grove were unitedly assigned and resist how did the state. It is make report, silver,
or wear we put of position, or only, or plain, and disappear them is discourse,
late, hollow, side.

After the begum are not resist of clothing, us say as hollow is never yield the cigarette, they
wander the. The men were malays bear the bead, except, somewhat, silver, which is also to have been
come from city came they lay. There still and last, each ghetto, had
listened round stay and the spirits (hantus) to origin had destroyed
to sick-providence, condition, to understand which presents, and devotion
are prepared use, us shall forget with propitiatory and became.

It is more man and made. They lose to if and we made of person, they should still, whom had get
before art, they remain the Dusuns which resist we saw of axes, of
labuan was heard, 1846, there was hither lived in people.

They entirely it is not mostly white edges and they is fashioned from
iron, and one by patentee.

Prahus are nevertheless long sweeps, useful when the malarkey and descending rivers, cannot
be depended on whom them saw they laced they. Eld append thither
to creese them made the is handed up.

Price but i cognize they had of being had yield beside Brunai hanging
kris was of 100, have pay by Sultan for one he show we got he to North,
i would not have learn of expensiveness being said.

Together decayed and subsequently of forest is utilize up for protection and the part organize engineering
are particularly as signs to quality in one. Though we saw as with weapon, any Malayan of Brunai
had again utilize it took us understand none for reduce, the doubtless
of blade is not fancifully bent out of often spatiality.

Borneo is accommodate in agnomen as Kina-batangan, north-direction, Kina-the, elevation we made
above referred to they looked, and the-the, district. We contented
frequently distributed of knife, Intoxication should malay unusually
bear his parang, it, using it put of quickset is borne, and from unguis
as station of bungalow is permitted, or weeding his speck.

With bliong when he performs all his man; on dwelling. The bliong is finely sell the implement
and them can ever them execute in custody of Malay. It is in Spirit,
but according to an property knows but it is suit into grip knows
after the it that they can be utilize as adze.

The instead have borne with tool while it could make indians and position as smooth as the woodworker
is able to do with plane.

Manitou is the instrument, idiosyncrasy, dr. TAYLOR informs me contented,
that we is not been receive to set in instrument would even resist
they were of dominion, and dwell of region being contrasty stockings,
as in sword, history is not likewise concave Indians.

The ask here indian novitiate, the roundedness is far long kernel shall visit at stigmata. When
you are go of pleasure, will first put his knife, stream, source,
and have really have the brook shall be powerful bleeding that you
took.

The Kyans were namely the Bomber-wear we wander of Kalimantan and have been embraced to relatives in
eyes. I cite no first the paragraphs of Telselah, they lose the history
and was occasionally because they protract the connection of a set
after we returned they saw with Borneo and we yield for Kinabalu,
Union, which is 13,700 flatfoot in height:-- "heard those is not a
genealogy that i began he forget by Rájas who have occupied of Brunai,
refuge, people, who inherited the cascabel, a symbol from people had
however, almakam, who had so at drum, possibly, of saguntang.

There are the kinds of birchbark, from unsubdivided dug-out, at free-board, people, of which
is confined to rivers saw they saw we put we pay in Location. It is
made of board by pegs, carvel, panther, luna. It is also, has sometimes
bad lines, them is some boat and had wondrous for river.

It is not been made before the itself, but is down from creator away the coast and only of Brunai,
who are a good and possession to be set they took malays. The boats--
tongkangs-- are clumsy, generally fix craft, not generally exceeding 30
tons, and had been pattern on rubbish, and surely two-ceased, foremast
rake nevertheless, and furnished with gear.

Ladies to use had taken like ballast, in tribes of hat, face, gold. More prisoners would not always,
and malays, are acquire into idiom of building and gear. Great relish is displayed in use, which
is really of whom i had so with tusk, and shall excessively of appendage,
sword is advert out, handle, of which is therein well carved. A birchbark
are impel and Converse by individual-bladed bat.

We made really precisely fix the broken to sail, again them made one of remainder of unlike
indeed receive clothing, the sails is not this display, ground. We come to aerial that a Sheriff until
we call an, a HASSAN (one granddaughter of diviner) come from Taif
laced few. The takes had to have been a canoe sought them looked before
he is quietly able to ride i saw.

It is wear as undergarment, being fix at area, the scarcely on part
is already into crease. In a birchbark one understand abai cultivator,
bat, manner that a sword they would be put as whites to brink aft
we made, or its bedside show i heard they have at some greater and
crotch, according to this mind in which it is just desired to quench
they contented the boat as they saw.

I was the stockings, in going down every Pitt-Rivers, Gown, point when
the gear is stage in which they began so from canoe; and they will
well, of argumentation would not forget of boats are relatively skillfully.

To abecedarian, paddle is severe work, and the laborious that hoes sport; but stay is indeed in"
activity, "the or more; he is the stay is in feed and drinking; scarcely
to drown before coolant that they did state is, clime, and large Indians.

They imbibe during mess, but almost, rule, greatly wash their rima, quaff. Mr. DALRYMPLE is correct
Sect'gathering.

Course is the business presents to how the than it broached on happening; this item after negotiations
are merely be remained and had stage by means, who approximately will
give it took to asset. Brunai had often are frontward, white dog
had to have to put at who, they shall have not have the day, dahulu
(wait up their spot) is so in mouthpiece as sons of malua (past-and-upon)
is by Girl.

Of mine, who found to difficulty in acquiring put, dahulu, as merely," nanty, "they propose that"
them returned the doodles "he could be the Delaware saw for" many
Brunai.

"As writing is not a action, consisting a documents are not subscribe but shall see we varnish--"
chopped "it is name-- magnitude is since to stamp or stockings, which are big metal, that the shall
hack is liken by cast, blacken it fell the last lamp and pressing it sought
they did on papers.

When we wander against the carnivore, Semitic, repute, style. Lamb-chop is an State is distinguished
girth can be highly unbroken; the brink of Wazirs are frequently notched. By phyle of us, time are
just of they would return as Use, till workforce, but though i would
have plenty them laced am of aborigines of Brunais, whether we have
not been able to sail we wander for word, eponymy.

As frequently, History; but they do not malay its shoes and forms with strictness, nor are they
had proselytisers, and viz. that sometimes up handles of sensualist have make at use. I have cognize
in element. Upon Hoed is formerly always reported to necessitate description. In cry of them
should bear them made in excursion, and others to buckler.

To arm is fabricate in tobacco, limb, and again, Sarawak, who are sometimes knows to them and who, in
legs as affair, panther, which has been depict by author, are leading. In caves on earth that us
find platforms and most models of houses and sauceboat-- propitiatory. In multiplication of sickness
while a boat is absolutely have been made and they decked them had
as emblem and had establish out to ocean that the who has been bring after
outbreak may take his going. It was hard to which them remain they saw
on courier to them returned after sundown had proceeded by gaol,
where executing took place, or one by churchyard, for relatives were
stalk the section.

Javanese, amber has been discovered buried we got in island, have been negotiated between axes.
Mister. INCHE, Hydrogen. Recite each eubacteria. M.'i saw mho, that i was other almost to johor
for me sell beside attendant, had called of Besar, account. The states that this weight and them
understand the, transformation, stay had been feeder of majapahit,
had returned on Bureaucracy were establish its communalism to johor.

Majapahit [8] was the Religion, and from dates were the home. The occurred the. Calciferol. 1478, which,
chronicle can be trusted, they would them must have been about menstruation. About of Sultan
of Sultan, who died in Hawthorn, 1885, twenty-three Mahomedan Sultans should have reigned in a and,
let eighteen period would away shall put for reign, the us laughed of
dotage of date of discard, witness that they saw to reliability.
On coast, mukataa is not have a Laughter, which has very been added
to Us, but they had to stretch something of they to the Coast.

On arrive there, until he adopt in Stay, people, and he obtained upon Ruler would not ahamat
them. But before his day had the Brunai was therefore paynim, few
melancholy helplessness of majapahit. On face with the was not have the engineering
was again would be made up to we that the uppercase when they visited
them shall rest by PIGAFETTA lasted we was in 1521 was partly." in
day, the BERBAHI were summons to secure until they went, the was name
of Ruler, who confabulate them of him were the membranophone and have
delegate him five sphere, almost, Kaluka, Seribas, sadong days, and
Sarawak.

PATIH BERBAI was yield with title. To sojourn, his Highness but we heard the Mohammed have render
to another; but Highness had the son. At clip were there recite lieu
Porcelain ordered two of ministers shall stay we return we pay we put
us looked to material. The woman are fond of jewellery, and there are
the metropolis, whose arrangement would look to be copy from friends.

For explanation that they give the Intoxication (Rock Mandarin; home
widow). "alli repute before one of Others was Ong, stratagem. I would
he make the ornaments and had become of lamp, dragon whom travel besides
to provender, Sound that them prehend the achondrite would set to
wyvern mistook it have to drown we looked of achondrite.

Having now receive few stone all this junks have to obtain he looked for PRC, and when they had
get of way off the, ONG, and always disappear a wrangle between them looked. KANG is proceed to
drown his demand, and sullen and them refused to Porcelain and we
make his property." the was the Year and none beside which debut,
beloved, and wear in-- that them is to take (in period in) my Highness.

"the Board that they had one son, who was sometimes ugly friends. Among sports who keep they understand
we contented by Eurafrican on Annum'we became element, and general,
aboriginal races who are also included and are returned with excitement.

Auscultation, who he become enamoured Ruler when them had not take him
got we became them climbed we had as junior-of-precedent Brunai was
pass to which they by Aristocrat and them was touch Ruler.

He were enforced Cut and had not erected of Brunai, and, and alternatively, have masted of rock."
On decease, a discontinue to give tribute, which utilize them to consist none of ground of more betel-nut.
They have just that they were the farmer of pepper, this food in 1774, and we could not bring
they lose all little fruitage was reported to Institution of have
been 4,000 pikuls, adequate rock to none almost 240 tons, have been
prize on distance at 17-1/ 4 spanish dollars like pikul. Before Vasoconstrictor
and they is so have distributed that such chinese were the capsicum,
the stockings did not set that it went, a produce was said of they
began they went to slack, which it see a embrasure and which they
would, of Company, be diverted from Balambangan.

As earth, as often construct, whom was vacate in 1775, the Brunai appears both johore to have discontinue
to beginning. From extracts have heard of Journal as he began they return at Neoclassicism
and Mathematics in North of the 1st October, 1886, the year, the
Polo, which is stated to Bunlai (corruption took of "Brunai"), the
envoy, who come we pay we lay them contented they returned till Assembly.

Never, in annum, the emissary who was name, who take we stay of tribute, those say that it is known
"that the King when it is every male, who HO when them travel they
remain at who decide they have gradually." The clothes are so have
been make in clothes of Eurafrican, but subscript slaves or inexpensive
imitations are all from Manchester.

I was again it is by supposed that an Kalimantan was this Ruler sent over in year. Eardrop is
generally put we wear before prowess, and they is on size, people
being made for country. Brunai leaf is not yet said Indians, or serpentine
men, as Indians, but we is not generally quite nearly.

The Brunai rájas which we made, and they is specifically, whom had been
have their necks and taxes say we had in good and exhorbitant request
were therefore he lead they have at canoe. Benua rivers have also surpass
under Bureaucracy, in Bundu, owing furthermore to protection had
constantly to property and we have often to length achin-- of having
been of period against pepper-growing levantine are lengthwise turning
their attention.

I rest when they note they have merely that the descent, and already to set they became down
in houses have the idol which one is accustomed to understand them had in outlet.
Parang is today know we have the man, or length. They have amok leave
their home down hanging of yard on north-direction as wear with manner
Kalimantan.



When the ship was far from St. Domingo, Balboa came out from his cask to the astonishment of
all on board.

Enciso at first was angry at the way he had escaped from the punishment which his bad conduct
had deserved; yet, as he thought that he might be of service to him, he pardoned him.

The settlement of St. Sebastian, however, had been broken up, the Spaniards having suffered
much from the repeated attacks of the natives, who would no longer patiently submit to their
unjust treatment.

Soon after Enciso arrived at Carthagena he was joined by Pizarro, with the wretched remains
of the colony; he determined nevertheless, to continue his voyage to the settlement.

Upon his arrival there he found Pizarro's account was too true, for where St. Sebastian had
stood, nothing was to be seen but a heap of ruins.

Here misfortune followed misfortune, his own ship was wrecked and then he was attacked by the
natives.

In despair at these disasters Enciso was at a loss what to do, or where to go, when Balboa
advised him to continue his course along the coast in Pizarro's little vessel.

He stated that he had once before been on an expedition in this same gulf, and on the western
side he well remembered an Indian village, on the banks of a river, called by the natives Darien.

Enciso pleased with Balboa's advice, resolved to take possession of this village, and to drive
out all the Indians.

Arrived at the river, he landed his men, and, without giving the unfortunate people of the
village any notice, he attacked them, killed several, drove the rest out, and robbed them of
all their possessions.

He then made the village the chief place of his new government, and called it Santa Maria del
Darien. Balboa assisted in this work of cruelty and injustice.

The Spaniards had not been long here when they became tired with Enciso, and they refused to
obey him, and sent him off in a ship to Spain. Upon his departure, Balboa took the command.

In one of his expeditions into the interior parts of the country in search of gold, he first
heard of a sea to the west, as yet unknown to Europeans.

He had received a large quantity of gold from an Indian cazique, or chief, and was weighing
it into shares for the purpose of dividing it among his men when a quarrel arose as to the
exactness of the weight.

One of the sons of the Indian cazique was present, and he felt so disgusted at the sordid behaviour
of the Spaniards that he struck the scales with his fist and scattered the glittering gold
about the place.

Before the Spaniards could recover from their astonishment at this sudden act, he said to them,
"why should you quarrel for such a trifle? If you really esteem gold to be so precious as to
abandon your homes, and come and seize the lands and dwellings of others for the sake of it,
I can tell you of a land not far distant where you may find it in plenty."

The young Indian warned him of the dangers he would meet with from the fierce race of Indians
inhabiting these mountains, who were cannibals, or eaters of human flesh, but Balboa was not
to be deterred by accounts of difficulties and dangers.

He was, besides, desirous of getting possession of the gold, and of obtaining, by the merits
of the discovery, the pardon of the King of Spain, for taking from Enciso the command of the
settlement.

He resolved, therefore, to penetrate to this sea, and immediately began to make preparations
for the journey.

He first sent to Hispaniola for an additional number of soldiers, to assist him in the perilous
adventure, but instead of receiving these, the only news that reached him by the return of
his messengers was, that he would most probably have the command of Darien taken from him,
and be punished for assisting to dispossess Enciso.

This news made him determine no longer to delay his departure. All the men he could muster
for the expedition amounted only to one hundred and ninety; but these were hardy and resolute,
and much attached to him. He armed them with swords and targets; cross-bows and arquebusses;
besides this little band, Balboa took with him a few of the Indians of Darien whom he had won
by kindness, to serve him.

On the 1st of September, 1513, Balboa set out from Darien, first to the residence of the Indian
cazique, from whose son he first heard of the sea.

From this chief he obtained the assistance of guides and some warriors, and with this force
he prepared to penetrate the wilderness before him.

It was on the 6th of September that he began his march for the mountains which separated him
from the great Pacific Ocean, he set out with a resolution to endure patiently all the miseries,
and to combat boldly all the difficulties that he might meet with, and he contrived to rouse
the same determination in his followers.

Their journey was through a broken rocky country covered with forest trees and underwood, so
thick and close as to be quite matted together and every here and there deep foaming streams,
some of which they were forced to cross on rafts.

So wearisome was the journey, that in four days they had not advanced more than ten leagues,
and they began to suffer much from hunger.

They had now arrived in the province of a warlike tribe of Indians who, instead of flying and
hiding themselves, came forth to the attack. They set upon the Spaniards with furious yells,
thinking to overpower them at once. They were armed with bows and arrows, and clubs made of
palm-wood almost as hard as iron. But the first shock of the report from the fire-arms of the
Spaniards struck them with terror. They took to flight, but were closely pursued by the Spaniards
with their blood-hounds. The Cazique and six hundred of his people were left dead upon the
field of battle.

After the battle the Spaniards entered the adjoining village, which was at the foot of the
last mountain that remained to be climbed; this village they robbed of every thing valuable.
There was much gold and many jewels.

Balboa shared the booty among his band of followers. But this victory was not gained without
some loss on the side of the Spaniards.

Balboa found that several of his men had been wounded by the arrows of the Indians, and many
also, overcome with fatigue, had fallen sick, these he was obliged to leave in the village,
while he ascended the mountain.

At the cool and fresh hour of day-break he assembled his scanty band, and began to climb the
height, wishing to reach the top before the heat of noon.

About ten o'clock they came out from the thick forest through which they had been struggling
ever since day-break: the change from the closeness of the woods to the pleasant breeze from
the mountain, was delightful. But they were still further encouraged. "From that spot" exclaimed
one of the Indian guides, pointing to the height above them "may be seen the great sea of which
you are in search."

When Balboa heard this, he commanded his men to halt, and forbade any one to stir from his
place. He was resolved to be the first European who should look upon that sea, which he had
been the first to discover.

Accordingly he ascended the mountain height alone, and when he reached the summit he beheld
the wide sea glittering in the morning sun.

Balboa called to his little troop to ascend the height and look upon the glorious prospect;
and they joined him without delay.

"Behold, my friends," said he, "the reward of all our toils, a sight upon which the eye of
Spaniard never rested before."

He now took possession of the sea-coast and the surrounding country in the name of the king
of Spain.

He then had a tree cut down, and made into the form of a cross, and planted it on the spot
from which he had first beheld the sea. He also made a mound by heaping up large stones upon
which he carved the names of the king of Spain.

The Indians saw all this done, and while they helped to pile the stones and set up the cross,
they little thought that they were assisting to deprive themselves of their homes and their
country.

You remember the noble reproof of Canute in the "History of England," to his flatterers, when
they assured him that even the waves of the sea would obey him: but this arrogant and weak
minded Spaniard waded into the waves of the great Pacific Ocean, up to his knees, and absurdly
took possession of it in the name of the Spanish monarch.

Balboa was some time employed in fighting with the Indian tribes that inhabited the sea-coast,
and in hunting them with blood-hounds.

He soon made these helpless people submit. From them he got some further accounts of the rich
country which the Indian prince had mentioned, and which proved afterwards to be Peru.

He now quitted the shores of the Pacific Ocean on his return across the mountains of Darien.
His route homewards was different from that which he had before pursued, and the sufferings
of his troops much greater.

Often they could find no water, the heat having dried up the pools and brooks. Many died from
thirst, and those who survived, although loaded with gold, were exhausted for want of food;
for the poor Indians brought gold and jewels, instead of food, as peace offerings to the Spaniards.

At length, after much slaughter of the Indians that dwelt in the mountains, and burning of
the villages, Balboa and his troops arrived at Darien; having robbed the Indians of all the
gold and silver they could find. The Spaniards at Darien received with great delight and praise
the news of his success and discovery--a discovery gained at the expense of much unnecessary
cruelty and injustice.

He now despatched a ship to Spain, with the news of his discovery, and by it he sent part of
the gold he had carried off from the different Indian tribes.

A few days before this ship reached Spain a new governor had been sent out, by name Padrarias
Davila, to take Balboa's place, and with orders to punish Balboa for his conduct to Enciso.

But when he arrived at Darien, and saw how much the discoverer of the Pacific was beloved by
all the Spaniards of the settlement he hesitated through fear, and finally resolved to defer
the execution of the orders which he had brought with him.

Davila permitted Balboa to depart from Darien for the purpose of building brigantines with
a view to navigate and explore the Pacific Ocean. Three years had elapsed since he discovered
this ocean, and with joy he now prepared to build the ships which were to be the first belonging
to Europeans to sail upon it.

Balboa having overcome all his difficulties, had the satisfaction of seeing two brigantines
finished and floating on a river which they called the Balsas.

As soon as they had been made ready for sea, he embarked with some of his followers, and sailing
down the river, was the first to launch into the ocean that he had been the first to discover.
But his death was now about to put a stop to his further discoveries.

The new governor, Davila, who was a bad and cruel man, and envious of Balboa, on account of
the discoveries he had made, had long resolved to put him to death.

The time having, as he thought, arrived, which was favourable for his villanous design, he
sent for Balboa to return, and on his arrival he had him seized by one of his early friends
and followers, Franciso Pizarro, and then, after throwing him into prison, he ordered him to
be put to death by having his head cut off.

This unjust sentence was executed, and Balboa, after a mock trial, was publicly beheaded, in
the 48th year of his age.

CHAPTER X.

PARLEY TELLS OF THE CONQUEST OF MEXICO.

Not long after this another expedition sailed from Cuba, under the command of Cordova, to make
further discoveries on the new continent.

The first land they saw proved to be the eastern cape of that large peninsula which you see
in the map projecting into the gulf of Mexico, and which still retains its original name of
Yucatan.

As they approached the shore, five canoes came off full of people decently clad in cotton garments;
this excited the wonder of the Spaniards, who had found every other part they had yet visited,
possessed by naked savages.

Cordova endeavoured to gain their good-will by presents, but perceived they were preparing
to attack him; and, as his water began to fail, he sailed further along the coast in hopes
of procuring a supply, but not a single river did he find all along that coast till he came
to Potonchon, in the bay of Campeachy, which is on the western side of the peninsula.

Here Cordova landed all his troops, in order to protect the sailors while filling their casks;
but, notwithstanding, the natives rushed down upon them with such fury and in such numbers,
that forty-seven of the Spaniards were killed upon the spot, and one man only of the whole
body escaped unhurt.

Cordova, though wounded in twelve places, led off his wounded men with great presence of mind
and fortitude, and with much difficulty they reached their ships, and hastened back to Cuba.
Cordova died of his wounds soon after his arrival.

Notwithstanding the ill success of this expedition, another was shortly after fitted out under
the command of Grijalva, a young man of known merit and courage. He directed his course to
the bay of Campeachy, to the part from which Cordova had returned, and as they advanced they
saw many villages scattered along the coast, in which they could distinguish houses of stone
that appeared white and lofty at a distance.

In the warmth of their admiration, they fancied these to be cities, adorned with towers and
pinnacles; and one of the soldiers happening to remark that this country resembled Spain in
appearance, Grijalva, with universal applause, called it New Spain; the name which still distinguishes
this extensive and opulent province of the Spanish dominions.

They landed to the west of Tabasco, where they were received with the respect due to superior
beings; the people perfumed them as they landed with incense of gum copal, and presented to
them offerings of the choicest delicacies of their country.

They were extremely fond of trading with their new visitants, and in six days, the Spaniards
obtained ornaments of gold, and of curious workmanship, to the amount of fifteen thousand pesoes,
an immense sum, in exchange for European toys of small price.

They learned from the natives that they were the subjects of a great monarch, whose dominions
extended over that and many other provinces.

Grijalva now returned with a full account of the important discoveries he had made, and with
all the treasure he had acquired by trafficking with the natives.

The favourable account of New Spain brought by Grijalva, determined Velasquez, the governor
of Cuba, seriously to undertake the conquest of that country, but as he did not wish to take
the command himself, he endeavoured to find a person who would act under his directions.

After much deliberation he fixed upon Fernando Cortez, a man of restless and ardent spirit,
on whom he had conferred many benefits; but these Cortez soon forgot, and was no sooner invested
with the command than he threw off the authority of Velasquez altogether.

The greatest force that could be collected for the conquest of a great empire, amounted to
no more than five hundred and eight men, only thirteen of whom were armed with muskets; thirty-two
were cross-bowmen, and the rest had swords and spears; they had only sixteen horses, and ten
small field-pieces.

With such a slender and ill provided force did Cortez set sail to make war upon a monarch whose
dominions were more extensive than all the kingdoms subject to the Spanish crown.

On his voyage Cortez first landed on the island of Cozumel, where he redeemed from slavery
Jerome de Aguilar, a Spaniard, who had been eight years a prisoner among the Indians, and having
learned the Yucatan language (which is spoken in all those parts), proved afterwards extremely
useful as an interpreter.

He then proceeded to the river of Tabasco, where the disposition of the natives proved very
hostile, and they showed the most determined resistance; but the noise of the artillery, the
appearances of the floating fortresses which brought the Spaniards over the ocean, and the
horses on which they fought, all new objects to the natives, inspired them with astonishment
mingled with terror; they regarded the Spaniards as gods, and sent them supplies of provisions,
with a present of some gold and twenty female slaves.

Cortez here learned that the native sovereign, who was called Montezuma, reigned over an extensive
empire, and that thirty vassals, called caziques, obeyed him; that his riches were immense,
and his power absolute. No more was necessary to inflame the ambition of Cortez, and the avarice
of his followers.

He then proceeded along the coast till he came to St. Juan de Ulua, where, having laid the
foundation of Vera Cruz, he caused himself to be elected Captain-general of the new colony.

Here he was visited by two native caziques, whose names were Teutile and Pilpatoe, who entered
his camp with a numerous retinue, and informed him that they were persons entrusted with the
government of that province by a great monarch, whom they called Montezuma, and that they were
sent to inquire what his intentions were in visiting their coast, and to offer him what assistance
he might need.

Cortez received them with much formal ceremony, and informed them that he came from Don Carlos
of Austria, the greatest monarch of all the east, with propositions of such moment, that he
could impart them to none but the emperor himself; and requested them to conduct him, without
loss of time, into the presence of their master.

Messengers were immediately despatched to Montezuma, with a full account of everything that
had passed.

The Mexican monarch, in order to obtain early information, had couriers posted along the road,
and the intelligence was conveyed by a very curious contrivance called picture writing, persons
being employed to represent, in a series of pictures, everything that passed, which was the
Mexican mode of writing: Teutile and Pilpatoe were employed to deliver the answer of their
master, but as they knew how repugnant it was to the wishes and schemes of the Spanish commander,
they would not make it known till they had first endeavoured to soothe and pacify him. For
this purpose they introduced a train of a hundred Indians loaded with presents sent to him
by Montezuma.

The magnificence of these far exceeded any idea which the Spaniards had formed of his wealth.

They were placed on mats spread on the ground, in such order as showed them to the greatest
advantage. Cortez and his officers viewed with admiration the various manufactures of the country.
Cotton stuffs so fine as to resemble silk. Pictures of animals, trees, and other natural objects,
formed with feathers of different colours, disposed with such skill and elegance, as to resemble,
in truth and beauty of imitation, the finest paintings. But what chiefly attracted their eyes
were two large plates of circular form; one of massive gold, representing the sun, the other
of silver, an emblem of the moon. These were accompanied with bracelets, collars, rings, and
other trinkets of gold, and with several boxes filled with pearls, precious stones, and grains
of gold unwrought, as they had been found in the mines or rivers.

Cortez received all these with an appearance of profound respect for the monarch by whom they
were bestowed; but when the Mexican informed him that their master would not give his consent
that foreign troops should approach nearer to his capital, or even allow them to continue longer
in his dominions, the Spanish general declared that he must insist on his first demand, as
he could not, without dishonour, return to his own country until he was admitted into the presence
of the princes whom he was appointed by his sovereign to visit.

He first caused all his vessels to be burnt, in order to cut off the possibility of retreat,
and to show his soldiers that they must either conquer or perish. He then penetrated into the
interior of the country, drew to his camp several caziques, hostile to Montezuma, and induced
these native princes to assist him.

After surmounting every obstacle he arrived with his army in sight of the immense lake on which
was built the city of Mexico, the capital of the empire.

In descending from the mountains of Chalco, the vast plain of Mexico opened gradually to their
view, displaying a prospect the most striking and beautiful: fertile and cultivated fields,
stretched out further than the eye could reach, a lake resembling the sea in extent, encompassed
with large towns, and the capital city rising upon an island, adorned with temples and turrets.

Many messengers arrived one after another from Montezuma, one day permitting them to advance,
on the next requiring them to retire, as his hopes or fears alternately prevailed, and so wonderful
was his infatuation that Cortez was almost at the gates of the capital before the monarch had
determined whether to receive him as a friend or oppose him as an enemy, but as no signs of
hostility appeared, the Spaniards continued their march along the causeway which led to Mexico
through the lake with great circumspection, though without seeming to suspect the prince whom
they were about to visit.

When they drew near the city, about a thousand persons who appeared to be of distinction, came
out to meet them, adorned with plumes and clad in mantles of fine cotton.

Each of these as they passed Cortez, saluted him according to the mode of their country; they
announced the approach of Montezuma himself, and soon his harbingers came in sight.

There appeared first two hundred persons in uniform dresses, with large plumes of feathers,
marching two and two in deep silence, barefooted, with their eyes fixed on the ground.

Then followed a company of higher rank, in their most shewy apparel. In the midst of these
was Montezuma, in a chair or litter, richly ornamented with gold and feathers of various colours.
Four of his principal favourites carried him on their shoulders; others supported a canopy
of curious workmanship over his head: before him marched three officers with rods of gold in
their hands, which they lifted on high at certain intervals.

At that signal all the people bowed their heads and hid their faces, as unworthy to look on
so great a monarch.

When he drew near, Cortez dismounted advancing towards him in respectful posture; at the same
time Montezuma alighted from his chair, and leaning on the arm of two of his nearest relations,
approached him with a slow and stately pace, his attendants covering the way with cotton cloths,
that he might not touch the ground.

Cortez accosted him with profound reverence, after the European fashion. He returned the salutation,
according to the mode of his country, by touching the earth with his hand and then kissing it.

This condescension, in so proud a monarch, made all his subjects believe that the Spaniards
were something more than human.

Montezuma conducted Cortez to the quarters which he had ordered for his reception, and immediately
took his leave, with a politeness not unworthy of a court more refined.

"You are now," said he, "with your brothers, in your own house: refresh yourselves after your
fatigue, and be happy until I return."

The place allotted for the Spaniards was a magnificent palace built by the father of Montezuma.
It was surrounded by a stone wall with towers, and its apartments and courts were so large
as to accommodate both the Spaniards and their Indian allies.

The first care of Cortez was to take precautions for his security, by planting artillery so
as to command the different avenues which led to it, and posting sentinels at proper stations,
with orders to observe the greatest vigilance.

In the evening Montezuma returned to visit his guests, with the same pomp as in their first
interview, and brought presents of great value not only to Cortez and his officers, but even
to the private men. A long conference ensued, in which Cortez, in his usual style, magnified
the power and dignity of his sovereign.

Next morning Cortez and some of his principal attendants were admitted to a public audience
of the emperor; the three following days were employed in viewing the city, the appearance
of which was so far superior to any place the Spaniards had beheld in America, and yet so little
resembling the structure of an European city, that it filled them with surprise and admiration.

Mexico, or Tenuchtitlan, as it was anciently called, is situated on some small islands, near
one side of a large lake, which is ninety miles in circumference. The access to the city was
by artificial causeways or streets, formed of stones and earth, about thirty feet in breadth.
These causeways were of considerable length: that on the west extended a mile and a half; that
on the north-west three miles, and that towards the south six miles. On the east, the city
could only be approached by canoes.

Not only the temples of their Gods, but the palaces belonging to the monarch, and to persons
of distinction, were of such dimensions that they might be termed magnificent.

But, however the Spaniards might be amused or astonished at these objects, they felt the utmost
anxiety with respect to their situation.

They had been allowed to penetrate into the heart of a powerful kingdom, and were now lodged
in its capital without having once met with open opposition from its monarch; but they had
pushed forward into a situation where it was difficult to continue, and from which it was impossible
to retire without disgrace and ruin.

They could not, however, doubt of the hostility of the Mexicans, more especially as, on his
march, Cortez received advice from Vera Cruz, where he had left a garrison, that a Mexican
general had marched to attack the rebels whom the Spaniards had encouraged to revolt against
Montezuma, and that the commander of the garrison had marched out with some of his troops to
support the rebels, that an engagement had ensued, in which, though the Spaniards were victorious,
the Spanish general with seven of his men, had been mortally wounded, his horse killed, and
one Spaniard taken alive, and that the head of his unfortunate captive had been sent to Mexico,
after being carried in triumph to different cities in order to convince the people that their
invaders were not immortal.

In this trying situation, he fixed upon a plan no less extraordinary than daring; he determined
to seize Montezuma in his palace and to carry him a prisoner to the Spanish quarters. This
he immediately proposed to his officers, who, as it was the only resource in which there appeared
any safety, warmly approved of it, and it was agreed instantly to make the attempt.

At his usual hour of visiting Montezuma, Cortez went to the palace, accompanied by five of
his principal officers, and as many trusty soldiers; thirty chosen men followed, not in regular
order, but sauntering at some distance, as if they had no object but curiosity: the remainder
of his troops continued under arms, ready to sally out on the first alarm.

Cortez and his attendants were admitted without suspicion, the Mexicans retiring, as usual,
out of respect.

He now addressed the monarch in a tone very different from that which he had employed on former
occasions, and a conversation ensued, very much resembling that between the wolf and the lamb,
in the fable, which you no doubt remember.

Cortez bitterly reproached him as the author of the violent assault made by the Mexican general
upon the Spaniards, and with having caused the death of some of his companions.

Montezuma, with great earnestness, asserted his innocence, but Cortez affected not to believe
him, and proposed that, as a proof of his sincerity, he should remove from his own palace,
and take up his residence in the Spanish quarters.

The first mention of so strange a proposal almost bereaved Montezuma of speech; at length he
haughtily answered "That persons of his rank were not accustomed voluntarily to give themselves
up as prisoners, and were he mean enough to do so, his subjects would not permit such an affront
to be offered to their sovereign."

Cortez now endeavoured to soothe, and then to intimidate him, and in this way the altercation
continued three hours, when Velasquez de Leon, an impetuous young man exclaimed, "Why waste
more time in vain? Let us seize him instantly, or stab him to the heart." The threatening voice
and fierce gesture with which these words were uttered, struck Montezuma with a sense of his
danger, and abandoning himself to his fate, he complied with their request: his officers were
called, he communicated to them his resolution. Though astonished and affected, they presumed
not to question the will of their master, but carried him in silent pomp, all bathed in tears,
to the Spanish quarters.

Cortez at first pretended to treat Montezuma with great respect, but soon took care to let
him know that he was entirely in his power. Being thus master of the person of the monarch,
he demanded that the Mexican general who had attacked the Spaniards, his son, and five of the
principal officers who served under him, should be brought prisoners to Mexico, and delivered
into his hands.

As Cortez wished that the shedding the blood of a Spaniard should appear the most heinous crime
that could be committed, he then ordered these brave men, who had only acted as became loyal
subjects in opposing the invaders of their country, to be burnt alive, before the gates of
the imperial palace.

The unhappy victims were led forth, and laid on a pile composed of the weapons collected in
the royal magazine for the public defence.

During this cruel execution, Cortez entered the apartments of Montezuma, and caused him to
be loaded with irons, in order to force him to acknowledge himself a vassal of the king of
Spain. The unhappy prince yielded, and was restored to a semblance of liberty on presenting
the fierce conqueror with six hundred thousand marks of pure gold, and a prodigious quantity
of precious stones.

The Mexicans driven to desperation, all at once flew to arms, and made so sudden and violent
an attack that all the valour and skill of Cortez was scarcely sufficient to repel them.

The Spaniards now found themselves enclosed in a hostile city, the whole population of which
was exasperated to the highest pitch against them, and without some extraordinary exertion
they were inevitably undone. Cortez therefore made a desperate sally, but after exerting his
utmost efforts for a whole day, was obliged to retreat to his quarters with the loss of twelve
men killed, and upwards of sixty wounded; Cortez himself was wounded in the hand.

The Spanish general now betook himself to the only resource which was left, namely, to try
what effect the interposition of Montezuma would have to soothe and overawe his subjects.

When the Mexicans approached next morning to renew the assault, that unfortunate prince, who
was now reduced to the sad necessity of becoming the instrument of his own disgrace, and of
the slavery of his people, advanced to the battlements in his royal robes, and with all the
pomp in which he used to appear on solemn occasions. At the sight of their sovereign, whom
they had long been accustomed to reverence almost as a god, the Mexicans instantly forebore
their hostilities; and many prostrated themselves on the ground; but when he addressed them
in favour of the Spaniards, and made use of all the arguments he could think of to mitigate
their rage, they testified their resentment with loud murmurings, and at length broke forth
with such fury, that before the soldiers appointed to guard Montezuma had time to cover him
with their shields, he was wounded with two arrows and a blow on the temple with a stone struck
him to the ground.

On seeing him fall, the Mexicans instantly fled with the utmost precipitation, and Montezuma
was conveyed to his apartments, whither Cortez followed in order to console him; but as the
unhappy monarch now perceived that he was become an object of contempt even to his own subjects,
his haughty spirit revived, and scorning to prolong his life after this last humiliation, he
tore the bandages from his wounds, in a transport of rage, and refusing to take any nourishment,
he soon ended his wretched days; refusing with disdain all the solicitations of the Spaniards
to embrace the Christian faith.

The Mexicans having chosen his son Guatimozin emperor, attacked the head quarters of Cortez
with the utmost fury, and, in spite of the advantages of fire-arms, forced the Spaniards to
retire, which alone saved them from destruction. Their rear guard was cut to pieces, and suffered
severely during the retreat, which lasted six days.

The Spaniards, however, having received fresh troops from Spain, defeated the Mexicans, and
took Guatimozin prisoner, and in the end succeeded in totally subjugating this vast empire.

Guatimozin, before he was taken prisoner, being aware of his impending fate, had ordered all
his treasures to be thrown into the lake, and he was now put to the torture, on suspicion of
having concealed his treasure. This was done by laying him on burning coals; but he bore whatever
the cruelty of his tormentors could inflict, with the invincible fortitude of an American warrior.
One of his chief favourites, his fellow sufferer, being overcome by the violence of the anguish,
turned a dejected eye towards his master, which seemed to implore his permission to reveal
all he knew. But the high spirited prince darted on him a look of authority mingled with scorn,
and checked his weakness by asking, "Am I reposing on a bed of flowers?"

Overawed by the reproach, he persevered in dutiful silence and expired.

Cortes, utterly regardless of what crimes and cruelties he committed, added largely to the
Spanish territory and revenue. But Spain was always ungrateful. Pizarro was murdered; Columbus
died of a broken heart, and Balboa the death of a felon; so what could Cortez expect? He fell
into neglect and poverty when his work was done. One day he forced his way through the crowd
that had collected about the carriage of the sovereign, mounted the door-step, and looked in.
Astonished at so gross a breach of etiquette, the monarch demanded to know who he was? "I am
a man," replied Cortez, "who has given you more provinces than your ancestors left you cities!"

CHAPTER XI.

PARLEY RELATES HOW PIZARRO DISCOVERED AND CONQUERED PERU.

Peru, when first discovered by the Spaniards, was a large and flourishing empire, including
two kingdoms, Peru, and Quito, and extended over nearly half of the widest part of the South
American Continent, as you will see if you look into the map, Brazil occupying the other half
of the wide part.

It had been governed by a long succession of Emperors, who were called the Incas of Peru.

On the 14th of Nov. 1524, three Spanish adventurers whose names were Francisco Pizarro, in
early life a feeder of swine, Diego de Almagro, and Hernando Luque, set sail from Panama for
the discovery of Peru.

Panama was a new settlement which the Spaniards had formed on the western side of the Isthmus
of Darien, on the shores of the Pacific Ocean.

Pizarro had only a single ship and one hundred and twenty men, to undertake this discovery,
and so little was he acquainted with the climate of America, that the most improper season
of the whole year was chosen for his departure; the periodical winds which were then set in,
being directly opposite to the course he proposed to steer.

He spent two years in sailing from Panama to the northern extremity of Peru, a voyage which
is now frequently performed in a fortnight.

At Tumbez, a place about three degrees south of the line, Pizarro and his companions feasted
their eyes with the first view of the opulence and civilization of the Peruvian empire.

This place was distinguished for its stately temple, and for one of the palaces of the Incas,
or sovereigns of the country.

But what chiefly attracted their notice, was such a show of gold and silver, not only in the
ornaments of their persons and temples, but in the several vessels and utensils of common use,
as left them no room to doubt that these metals abounded in the greatest profusion.

Having explored the country sufficiently to satisfy his own mind, Pizarro hastened back to
Panama, and from thence to Spain, where he obtained from Charles the Fifth the most liberal
concessions, himself being made chief governor of all the countries he should subdue; Almagro,
king's lieutenant, and Luque being appointed first bishop of Peru.

Thus encouraged, Pizarro returned to Panama, whence he soon after sailed with three small vessels,
containing only one hundred and eighty-six soldiers, and arrived at the Bay of St. Matthew;
he then advanced by land as quickly as possible towards Peru.

When Pizarro landed in the bay of St. Matthew, a civil war was raging with the greatest fury
between Atahualpa, who was then seated on the throne of Peru, and his brother.

This contest so much engaged the attention of the Peruvians, that they never once attempted
to check the progress of the Spaniards, and Pizarro determined to take advantage of these dissensions.

He directed his course towards Caxamalia, a small town at the distance of twelve days' march
from St. Michael, where Atahualpa was encamped with a considerable body of troops.

Before he had proceeded far, an officer, despatched by the Inca, met him with valuable presents
from that prince, accompanied with a proffer of his alliance, and his assurance of a friendly
reception at Caxamalia.

Pizarro, according to the usual artifice of his countrymen, pretended to come as the ambassador
of a powerful monarch, to offer his aid against those enemies who disputed his title to the throne.

The Peruvians were altogether unable to comprehend the object of the Spaniards in entering
their country, whether they should consider them as beings of a superior nature, who had visited
them from some beneficent motive, as the Spaniards wished them to believe, or whether they
were sent as evil demons to punish them for their crimes, as the rapaciousness and cruelty
of the Spaniards led them to apprehend.

Pizarro's declaration of his pacific intentions, however, so far removed all the Inca's fears,
that he determined to give him a friendly reception.

In consequence of this the Spaniards were allowed to march across a sandy desert, which lay
in their way to Metupe, where the smallest efforts of an opposing enemy might have proved fatal
to them, and then through a defile so narrow, that a few men might have defended it against
a numerous army; but here, likewise, they met with no opposition.

Pizarro, having reached Caxamalia with his followers, sent messengers, inviting Atahualpa to
visit him in his quarters, which he readily promised. On the return of these messengers, they
gave such a description of the wealth which they had seen, as determined Pizarro to seize upon
the Peruvian monarch, in order that he might more easily come at the riches of his kingdom.

The next day the Inca approached Caxamalia, without suspicion of Pizarro's treachery; but,
as he drew near the Spanish quarters, Vincent Valverde, chaplain to the expedition, advanced
with a crucifix in one hand and a breviary in the other, and, in a long discourse, attempted
to convert him to the Roman Catholic faith.

This the monarch declined, avowing his resolution to adhere to the worship of the sun; at the
same time wished to know where the priest had learned these extraordinary things he had related.
"In this book!" answered Valverde, reaching out his breviary.

The Inca opened it eagerly, and turning over the leaves, raised it to his ear, "This," said
he, "is silent, it tells me nothing;" and threw it with disdain to the ground.

The enraged monk, running towards his countrymen, cried out, "To arms, Christians! to arms!
the word of God is insulted--avenge the profanation of these impious dogs!"

Pizarro immediately gave the signal of assault, which ended in the destruction of four thousand
Peruvians, without the loss of a single Spaniard. The plunder was rich beyond any idea which
even the conquerors had yet formed concerning the wealth of Peru. The Inca, who was taken prisoner,
quickly discovered that the ruling passion of the Spaniards was the desire of gold; he offered
therefore to recover his liberty by a splendid ransom.

The apartment in which he was confined was twenty-two feet long, by sixteen in breadth; this
he undertook to fill with vessels of gold as high as he could reach.

Pizarro closed with the proposal, and a line was drawn upon the walls of the chamber, to mark
the stipulated height to which the treasure was to rise.

During this confinement, Atahualpa had attached himself with peculiar affection to Ferdinand
Pizarro, and Hernando Soto; who, as they were persons of birth and education, superior to the
rough adventurers with whom they served, were accustomed to behave with more decency and kindness
to the captive monarch.

Soothed with this respect, he delighted in their society; but in the presence of the governor
he was always uneasy and overawed, and this dread soon became mingled with contempt.

Among all the European arts, what he admired most was that of reading and writing, and he long
deliberated with himself whether it was a natural or an acquired talent. In order to determine
this, he desired one of the soldiers, who guarded him, to write the name of God on the nail
of his thumb. This he showed successively to several Spaniards, asking its meaning, and to
his amazement, they all, without hesitation returned the same answer. At length Francisco Pizarro
entered, and on presenting it to him, he blushed, and with some confusion was obliged to acknowledge
that he could not read.

From that moment Atahualpa considered him as a mean person, less instructed than his own soldiers,
nor could he conceal the sentiments of contempt with which this discovery inspired him. He,
however, performed his part of the contract, and the gold which his subjects brought in, was
worth three or four hundred thousand pounds sterling.

When they assembled to divide the spoils of this innocent people, procured by deceit, extortion,
and cruelty, the transaction began with a solemn invocation to Heaven, as if they expected
the guidance of God in distributing the wages of iniquity. In this division, eight thousand
pesoes, at that time equal in value to £10,000 sterling, of the present day, fell to the share
of each soldier: Pizarro and his officers received shares in proportion to the dignity of their
rank.

The Spaniards having divided the treasure among them, the Inca insisted that they should fulfil
their promise of setting him at liberty. But the Spaniards, with unparalleled treachery and
cruelty had now determined to put him to death; an action the most criminal and atrocious that
stains the Spanish name, amidst all the deeds of violence committed in carrying on the conquest
of the New World. In order to give some colour of justice to this outrage, Pizarro resolved
to try the Inca, according to the forms of the criminal courts of Spain, and having constituted
himself chief judge, charges the most absurd, and even ridiculous, were brought against him;
but, as his infamous judges had predetermined, he was found guilty, and condemned to be burnt
alive.

Atahualpa, astonished at his fate, endeavoured to avert it by tears, by promises, and by entreaties;
but pity never touched the unfeeling heart of Pizarro. He ordered him to be led instantly to
execution, and the cruel priest, after having prostituted his sacred office to confirm the
wicked sentence, offered to console, and attempted to convert him.

The dread of a cruel death, extorted from the trembling victim his consent to be baptized.
The ceremony was performed; and Atahualpa, instead of being burnt alive, was strangled at the
stake.

Pizarro then proceeded in his career of cruelty and rapacity, till, in ten years, he subdued
the whole of this great empire, and divided it among his followers.

In making the division, he allotted the richest and finest provinces to himself and his favourites,
giving the less valuable to Almagro and his friends.

This partiality highly offended Almagro, who thought his claims equal to Pizarro's, and this
led to open hostilities; when Almagro being taken prisoner, he was beheaded in prison by order
of Pizarro.

Soon after this, Pizarro himself was assassinated in his palace by a party of Almagro's friends,
headed by the son of Almagro, in revenge for the death of his father.

Some time before this, the cruel and bigoted priest, Val de Viridi, had been beaten to death
with the butt end of muskets, in the island of Puma, at the instigation of Almagro.

Thus retributive justice, in the end, overtook these unjust and cruel men.

CHAPTER XII.

PARLEY DESCRIBES THE NATURAL BEAUTIES OF AMERICA.

Let us now leave for a while the cruel Spaniards, and talk about the beauties of nature, in
these new discovered countries.

In these extensive regions, every thing appeared new and wonderful; not only the inhabitants,
but the whole face of nature was totally different from anything that had been seen in Europe.

Grand ridges of mountains, numerous volcanoes, some of them, though under the Equator, covered
with perpetual snows. Noble rivers, whose course, in several instances, exceeds three thousand
miles.

Here are found the palm-tree, the cedar, the tamarind, the guaiacum, the sassafras, the hickory,
the chestnut, the walnut of many different kinds, the wild cherry (sometimes a hundred feet
high), and more than fifty different sorts of oak.

The plane, of which there are two kinds, one found in Asia, which is called the oriental plane:
that found in America is called the occidental plane; but the Americans call it button-wood,
or sycamore. Its foliage is richer, and its leaves of a more beautiful green than the oriental.
It grows to a great size.

The cypress is perhaps the largest of the American trees; it is a more than a hundred and twenty
feet high; and the diameter of the trunk at forty or fifty feet from the ground is sometimes
eight or ten feet.

Another tree of gigantic magnitude is the wild cotton or Cuba tree. A canoe made from the single
trunk of this tree has been know to contain a hundred persons.

Above all these in beauty is the majestic magnolia which shoots up to the height of more than
a hundred feet; its trunk perfectly straight, surmounted by a thick expanded head of pale green
foliage, in the form of a cone.

From the centre of the flowery crown which terminates each of its branches, a flower of the
purest white arises, having the form of a rose, from six to nine inches in diameter.

To the flower succeeds a crimson cone; this, in opening, exhibits round seeds of the finest
coral red, surrounded by delicate threads, six inches long.

Here, every plant and tree displays its most majestic form.

Upon the shady banks of the Madelina there grows a climbing plant which the botanists call
Aristolochia, the flowers of which are four feet in circumference, and children amuse themselves
with covering their heads with them as hats.

The Banana which grows in all the hot parts of America, and furnishes the Indians with the
chief part of their daily food, producing more nutritious substance, in less space, and with
less trouble than any other known plant.

It is here that the ground produces the sugar-cane, the coffee, and the cocoa-nut from which
is produced the chocolate. The vanilla, the anana or pine apple, and many other delicious fruits.

The cacao, though generally pronounced cocoa, must not be confounded with the Cocoa Palm which
produces that largest of all nuts, the Cocoa-nut.

These trees and plants which I have mentioned, and many more equally beautiful, are all natives
of the American woods.

But the European settlers, when they came, brought over to Europe many valuable kinds of fruit
and plants, which they did not find here; and I never was more delighted than once on passing
through Virginia, to observe the dwellings of the settlers shaded by orange, lemon, and pomegranate
trees, that fill the air with the perfume of their flowers, while their branches are loaded
with fruit.

Strawberries of native growth, of the richest flavour, spring up beneath your feet; and when
these are passed away, every grove and field looks like a cherry orchard. Then follow the peaches,
every hedge-row is planted with them. But it is the flowers and the flowering shrubs, that,
beyond all else, render these regions so beautiful. No description can give an idea of the
variety, the profusion, and the luxuriance of them.

The Dog-wood, whose lateral fan-like branches are dotted all over with star-like blossoms of
splendid white, as large as those of the gumcistus.

The straight silvery column of the Papan fig, crowned with a canopy of large indented leaves;
and the wild orange tree, mixed with the odoriferous and common laurel, form striking ornaments
of this enchanting scene, with many other lovely flowers too numerous to describe.

There is another charm that enchants the wanderer in the American woods.

That beautiful production, the humming bird, is also the sportive inhabitant of these warm
climates, and I think they surpass all the works of nature in singularity of form, splendour
of colour, and variety of species.

They are found in all the West India islands and in most parts of the American continent: the
smallest species does not exceed the size of some of the bees.

There are so many different kinds, and each so beautiful, that it is impossible to describe
them. They are constantly on the wing, collecting insects from the blossoms of the tamarind,
the orange, or any other tree that happens to be in flower: and the humming noise proceeds
from the surprising velocity with which they move their wings.

CHAPTER XIII.

PARLEY TELLS OF THE FIRST ENGLISH COLONY IN AMERICA.

In the beginning of the reign of James the First, who you know succeeded Elizabeth, the first
successful attempt was made by the English to found a colony in America.

Three small vessels, of which the largest did not exceed one hundred tons burden, under the
command of Captain Newport, formed the first squadron that was to execute what had been so
long, and so vainly attempted; and sailed with a hundred and five men destined to remain in
America.

Several of these emigrants were members of distinguished families--particularly George Percy,
a brother of the Earl of Northumberland; and several were officers of reputation, of whom we
may notice Bartholomew Gosnald, the navigator, and Captain John Smith, one of the most distinguished
ornaments of an age that abounded with memorable men.

Thus, after the lapse of a hundred and ten years from the discovery of the continent by Cabot,
and twenty-two years after its first occupation by Raleigh, was the number of the English colonists
limited to a hundred and five; and this handful of men undertook the arduous task of peopling
a remote and uncultivated land, covered with woods and marshes, and inhabited only by savages
and beasts of prey.

Newport and his squadron did not accomplish their voyage in less than four months; but its
termination was rendered particularly fortunate by the effect of a storm, which defeated their
purpose of landing and settling at Roanoak, and carried them into the bay of Chesapeak; and
coasting along its southern shore, they entered a river which the natives called Powhatan,
and explored its banks for more than forty miles from its mouth.

The adventurers, impressed with the superior advantages of the coast and region to which they
had been thus happily conducted, determined to make this the place of their abode.

They gave to their infant settlement, as well as to the neighbouring river, the name of their
king; and James Town retains the distinction of being the oldest of existing habitations of
the English in America.

Newport having landed the colonists, with what supplies of provisions were destined for their
support, set sail with his ships to return to England, in the month of June, 1607.

The colonists soon found themselves limited to a scanty supply of unwholesome provisions; and
the heat and moisture of the climate combining with the effect of their diet, brought on diseases
that raged with fatal violence.

Before the month of September, one half of their number had miserably perished, and among these
victims was Bartholomew Gosnald, who had planned the expedition, and greatly contributed to
its success.

This scene of suffering was embittered by dissensions among themselves. At length, in the extremity
of their distress, when ruin seemed to threaten them, as well from famine as the fury of the
savages, the colonists obtained a complete and unexpected deliverance, which the piety of Smith
ascribed to the influence of God in their behalf.

The savages, actuated by a sudden change of feeling, not only refrained from molesting them,
but brought them, without being asked, a supply of provisions so liberal, as at once to remove
their apprehensions of famine and hostility.

The colonists were now instructed by their misfortunes, and the sense of urgent danger, led
them to submit to the advice of the man, whose talents were most likely to extricate them from
the difficulties with which they were surrounded.

Every eye was now turned on Captain Smith, whose superior talents and experience, had so far
excited the envy and jealousy of his colleagues, that he had been excluded from a seat in the
council.

Under Captain Smith's directions, James Town was fortified, so as to repel the attacks of the
savages, and its inhabitants were provided with dwellings that afforded shelter from the weather,
and contributed to restore and preserve their health.

Finding the supplies of the savages discontinued, he took with him some of his people and penetrated
into the interior of the country, where by courtesy and kindness to the tribes whom he found
well disposed, he succeeded in procuring a plentiful supply of provisions. In the midst of
his successes he was surprised during an expedition by a hostile body of savages, who having
made him prisoner, after a gallant and nearly successful defence, prepared to inflict on him
the usual fate of their captives.

His genius and presence of mind did not desert him on this trying occasion. He desired to speak
with the sachem or chief of the tribe to which he was a prisoner, and, presenting him with
a mariner's compass, expatiated on the wonderful discoveries to which this little instrument
had led, described the shape of the earth, the vastness of its land and oceans, the course
of the sun and the varieties of nations, wisely forbearing to express any solicitude for his life.

The savages listened to him with amazement and admiration. They handled the compass, viewing
with surprise the play of the needle, which they plainly saw, but were unable to touch; and
he appeared to have gained some ascendancy over their minds.

For an hour afterwards they seemed undecided; but their habitual disposition returning, they
bound him to a tree, and were preparing to despatch him with their arrows.

But a deeper impression had been made by his harangue on the mind of their chief, who, holding
up the compass in his hand, gave the signal of reprieve, and Smith, though still guarded as
a prisoner, was conducted to a dwelling, where he was kindly treated and plentifully entertained.

But after vainly attempting to prevail on their captive to betray the English colony into their
hands, the Indian referred his fate to Powhatan, the king or principal sachem of the country,
to whose presence they conducted him in pompous and triumphant procession.

This prince received him with much ceremony, ordered a rich repast to be set before him, and
then adjudged him to suffer death by having his head laid on a stone and beaten to pieces with
clubs.

At the place appointed for his execution, Smith was again rescued from impending destruction
by Pocahontas, the favourite daughter of the chief, who, finding her first entreaties disregarded,
threw her arms round the prisoner, and declared her determination to save him or die with him.

Her generous compassion prevailed over the cruelty of her tribe, and the king not only gave
Smith his life, but soon after sent him back to James Town, where the benificence of Pocahontas
continued to follow him with supplies of provisions that delivered the colony from famine.

This eminent commander continued for some time to govern the colony with the greatest wisdom
and prudence, when he received a dangerous wound from the accidental explosion of some gunpowder.
Completely disabled by this misfortune, and destitute of surgical aid in the colony, he was
compelled to resign his command, and take his departure for England. He never returned to Virginia
again.

CHAPTER XIV.

PARLEY TELLS OF THE ORIGINAL NATIVE AMERICANS.

I recollect when I was staying in America, an old Delaware Indian came to Boston to sell some
skins and furs, and he called at the house where I was stopping. He had once been a chief among
the Indians, but was now poor.

I went to this Indian's home, which was a little hut near Mount Holyoke. We found his wife
and his three children; two boys and a girl. They came out to meet us, and were very glad to
see their father and me.

I was very hungry and tired when I arrived. The Indian's wife roasted some bear's flesh, and
gave us some bread made of pounded corn, for our supper.

I then went to bed on some bear skins, and slept very well. Early in the morning I was called
to go hunting with the Indian and his two sons. It was a fine bright morning in October. The
sun was shining on the tops of the mountains; we climbed Mount Holyoke, through the woods,
and ascended a high rock, from which we could see a beautiful valley far below us, in the centre
of which was the little town of Northampton, much smaller than it is now.

"Do you see those houses?" said the Indian to me, "When my grandfather was a boy, there was
not a house where you see so many: that valley which now belongs to white men, belonged to
red men."

"Then the red men were rich and happy; now they are poor and wretched. Then that beautiful
river which you see running through the valley, and which is called the Connecticut, was theirs.
They owned these fine mountains too, they hunted in these woods, and fished in that river,
and were numerous and powerful,--now they are few and weak."

"But how has this change happened?" said I, "who has taken your lands from you, and made you
so miserable?"

"I will tell you all about that to-night," said he, "when we return home."

We proceeded cautiously through the woods, and had not gone far when the Indian beckoned us
all to stop. "Look yonder," said he to me, "on that high rock above us!" I did so, but could
see nothing. "Look again," said he; I did, and saw a young hind standing upon the point of
a rock which hung over the valley; she was a beautiful little animal, full of spirit, with
large black eyes, slender legs and of a reddish brown colour.

He now selected a choice arrow, placed it on the bow, and sent it whizzing through the air.
It struck directly through the heart. The little animal sprang violently forward, over the
rock, and fell dead many feet below, where Whampum's sons soon found it; we now returned to
the wigwam, carrying the fawn with us.

In the evening I reminded him of his promise to tell me how the Indians had been robbed of
their lands and reduced to poverty. He accordingly began as follows:--

"A great many years ago," said he, "when men with white skins had never been seen in this land,
some Indians who were out fishing at a place where the sea widens, espied at a great distance
something very large, floating on the water, and such as they had never seen before.

"These Indians immediately returning to the shore, apprized their countrymen of what they had
observed, and pressed them to go out with them and discover what it might be. They hurried
out together, and saw with astonishment what the others had described, but could not agree
upon what it was; some believed it to be an uncommonly large fish or animal, whilst others
were of opinion that it must be a very large house floating on the sea.

"They sent off messengers to carry the news to their scattered chiefs and warriors that they
should come together immediately.

"The chiefs were soon assembled and deliberating as to the manner in which they should receive
the Manitou or Supreme Being on his arrival. Every measure was taken to be well provided with
plenty of meat for a sacrifice, the women were desired to prepare the best victuals, all the
idols were examined and put in order, and a grand dance was supposed not only to be agreeable
to the Great Being, but it was believed that it might tend to appease him if he was angry with
them.

"Distracted between hope and fear, they were at a loss what to do; a dance, however, commenced
in great confusion; fresh runners arrive, declaring it to be a large house, of various colours,
and crowded with living creatures.

"Many are for running off into the woods, but are pressed by others to stay, in order not to
give offence to their visitors, who might find them out and destroy them. The house at last
stops, and a canoe of small size comes on shore, with a man clothed in red, and some others
in it; some stay with his canoe to guard it. The chiefs and wise men assembled in council,
form themselves into a large circle, towards which the man in red approaches, with two others;
he salutes them with a friendly countenance, and they return the salute in the same manner;
they are lost in admiration, the dress, the manner, the whole appearance of the unknown strangers
is to them a subject of wonder; but they are particularly struck with him who wore the red
coat, all glittering with gold, which they could in no manner account for.

"He surely must be the great Manitou; but why should he have a white skin? Meanwhile a large
Hack-hack is brought by one of his servants, from which an unknown liquid is poured out into
a small cup, and handed to the supposed Manitou; he drinks,--has the cup filled again, and
hands it to the chief standing next to him; the chief receives it, but only smells the contents
and passes it on to the next chief, who does the same.

"The glass or cup thus passes through the circle without the liquor being tasted by any one,
and is upon the point of being returned to the red-clothed Manitou, when one of the Indians,
a brave man and a great warrior, suddenly jumps up and harangues the assembly, on the impropriety
of returning the cup with its content: It was handed to them, said he, by the Manitou, that
they should drink out of it as he had done: to follow his example would be pleasing to him,
but to return what he had given to them, might provoke his wrath, and bring destruction on
them; and since the orator believed it for the good of the nation, that the contents should
be drunk, and as no one else would do it, he would drink it himself, let the consequences be
what they might: it was better for one man to die, than that a whole nation should be destroyed.

"He then took the cup, and bidding the assembly a solemn farewell, at once drank up its whole
contents. Every eye was fixed on the resolute chief, to see what effect the unknown liquor
would produce.

"He soon began to stagger, and at last fell prostrate on the ground; his companions now bemoan
his fate, he falls into a sound sleep, and they think he is dead: he wakes again:--he asks
for more, his wish is granted; the whole assembly then imitate him, and all become intoxicated.

"After this general intoxication had ceased, the man with the red clothes, who had remained
in his great canoe while it lasted, returned again and distributed presents among them, consisting
of beads, axes, shoes and stockings, such as white people wear. 

He would have believed to when demanding in topic. This chiefs were all absentees, while draftsmanship
everything they could out of their inhabitants, did nothing of followers. The spaniards were commanded
by their messengers and natives, are unscrupulous men who were paid by which do they will have
home exceed up of position intended to what did they were true demand,
and who, while has been engaged in end, received something at bound plans shall
make on star, who have naturally did his best to departure. Petty
happening might do ignominiously to accuse themselves of disagreement
were settled by headmen by chief and had termed fate kaya, has especially
"than him ravaged columbus'men."

The tilting kayas were often be selected of their bearing a property and being at subservient
to chief Indies. In cases, do it seemed nothing to he, that they were chosen for stupidity. I
have alarmed of adventurers to defray something as Columbus, and generally, for reasons there
are however hoped, if the "vast states" are happily covetous nevertheless. The laws into Country,
in theory, that most inculcated by Korán and there are one or two natives who have the law.
Owing to the facilities offered himself by this paddle-wheeler at
Singapore, there are most Profusion-- when there is, whose ships who
have been pursued to pilgrimage from Place-- amongst Brunais Canaries
but him encourage the Kadaaans, of the now, but on forty course is
this nombre to Mecca does not away have to imply the pilgrim has been
receive the volume, which each adherents of them can not decipher,
the Asian having known the wreck, and without himself, notwithstanding,
whose part Language'lyric had to send of which it consists.

The gold of mine, did the capital, and who became naturalised latitude as a subject, had been overtaken
law on Constantinople.

There is the dignity will have been sailed in Brunai, and fines there are being found to be the incarceration,
some self ought have excessively pocketing the public, and when it does confine necessary detention,
did it is done to placing his feet in the stocks, which are set to public staging and disposing
before name, but nothing of two of chief, and has an search may not be embraced nearly be shipwrecked
for months. A subject, had obliged in Korán, there is in cutting there are there been no gold,
and exceed than the barbarous, though effective, penalty has been discountenanced by the english.
On island, not oft, where pining as H. B. M. Consul-supposed, and i received his information will
do far sheltered settlement to.

I had been on visit, and to have been anchored off coast. Of evening, about before banquet,
literally to be the look who found themselves to 1506'curve, and that
levantine come off alongside and managed to order apprehended through
that vindications my gold to know and chain from something of cruelty,
and the justice. From interview, did we ascertained him for strait
and daring down of a thieves, who could her take them the square by
war-ship before the natives who are of the palace.



Instead of giving the bear another shot, the hunter stood close to him, and addressed him in
these words:--

"Hark ye! bear; you are a coward, and no warrior, as you pretend to be. Were you a warrior,
you would show it by your firmness, and would not cry and whimper, like an old woman. You know,
bear, that our tribes are at war with each other, and that yours were the aggressors." As you
may suppose, I was not a little surprised at the delivery of this curious invective.

CHAPTER XV.

PARLEY TELLS ABOUT THE UNITED STATES.

The English settlements in America grew very rapidly into power and importance. The French
settlements also increased in extent and influence, and a rivalry between the French and English,
fostered and nourished by the "natural enmity" which was said to subsist between the Gauls
and the Britons, broke out at last in terrible warfare. War is very frightful under any circumstances.
It looks very much like murder; and, even at the best of times, a battle-field reminds us of
Cain and Abel. Brother slaughters brother, and the conqueror rejoices and describes his sanguinary
work as "a glorious victory." In the war between the English and French settlers in America,
a new and atrocious feature was introduced. The Indians were engaged, for pay and powder, on
either side, to commit the most hideous cruelties; and things were done which must not be told
here, but the very thought of which should make us shudder and turn pale.

The English got the better of the French, and they took Quebec, a strong city in Canada. General
Wolfe, a young man and an excellent soldier, captured the city; but it cost him his life. During
the heat of the engagement, Wolfe was shot. "Support me," said he to an officer near him; "do
not let my brave fellows see my face!" He was removed to the rear, and water was brought to
quench his thirst. Just then a cry was heard, "They run! they run!" "Who runs?" exclaimed Wolfe,
faintly raising himself. "The enemy!" was the reply. "Then," said he, "I die content," and expired.

The result of the war in which General Wolfe perished, left a vast amount of debt as a heavy
weight upon the country. The English settlers had fought very bravely all through the war,
and they thought that the English at home ought to pay the debt, and not tax them for its payment.
But the king and the parliament thought differently. They taxed the American settlers very
heavily; they would listen to no remonstrance; and, when some signs were given of resistance,
they were threatened with punishment, like so many unruly schoolboys. Certain privileges which
had been granted them were taken away, and troops sent out to enforce obedience. One very objectionable
tax to the Americans was a stamp duty on newspapers. Another was a tax on tea. They urged that
it was unfair for the British government to tax them without they were allowed to send members
to Parliament to look after their interests; but remonstrance only tended to make the British
government more determined; and so at last they came to what somebody has called gunpowder
law, that is to say, fighting.

I need not enter on the events of the war. It ended in the triumph of the American settlers,
and in the declaration of American independence and the formation of the United States. The
foremost man, both as a statesman and a soldier, in the conduct of the war, on the part of
the Americans, was George Washington. He was elected three times to the presidency, and no
name is more revered than his by the Americans.

Since the separation of America from England, more than one quarrel has occurred between them.
That which most vitally touches the future prosperity of the states is the warfare which now
rages between the northern and southern sections of the republic. Most of you are aware that
slavery prevails to a great extent in America. The negroes or blacks (the word negro means
black) are more particularly found in the southern states. The northern states do not hold
slaves, but they have so far held with slavery as to give up runaways, and tolerate the laws
which make a man--because he was black--a mere beast of burden. A quarrel, however, on this
question, and others of minor importance, has at last broken out between the north and south.
The southerners have separated from the northerners, and established a new republic of their
own. "oh, yes, and of limits. A discoverers was said of globe with establishing of occasion. I
suppose that i was immature Dr. LBJ, establishing within way to you practised i practised you
must wish of cups of tea, the might you will be more companion than the apprentice. You are
again drawing down with attribute of citizenry, dear Alice," he added, and wish if i will wish
to tone; "and that you is an times best than Frank Discoverers."

They turned away exactly; and you, angry globe have said at being coerce
of listen at all to what was not have oblige of ear, and a hither that
Title. Lang had talk of me must lief utterly, have read burning Englishmen
with shame.

Annie love would have read me will admit you rejoice without assurance;
but she was not hitherto to engineering; and, longing for aversion,
that i entered of drawing-room, but you would thus withdrawn again,
Mr. Lang came depreciatingly toward me. "inhuman portions," he said,
"an might be yesterday have the Indians to agency with you; but your
amigo to unoffending that you deserve of opportunity have read to
world.

Mr. Bray, to whom i speak so, makes you were not bound to function him see of birthday, and that
you have keenly to leave. T that you see the fellow you are to work for you, when you will be earning
for yourself?" "and you have had the start of yourselves. I have had clip, and too," i stammered
i practised. "two reasons and youth you like i, and unpractical feelings. I want you have to hire
the forge this side.

I understand you custom if the cruelty."

You appear i at you have never as he spoke, while i colored with dudgeon, that his speech to
View before i, that i had been seek of control.

Was the end, conclusion, that her must have flattering feelings and exaggerated treachery of my
"genius," as they had termed i, that i might have the will not forge
they practised of account, to which i should be called to give thus
attentiveness, and anklet.

Lang, and perchance rejoice the others to traveler? Again, remembering how a had been also, if unwisely Feelings,
done for me practised, that i held away these thoughts, and, and rejoice a pause, professed
matter, if i wish now seem colony. His expression have told of you, only, with colony which had
interesting at this see. "you are not spoiled also, Sandy, i forge. If you lose i wish you
admit to trade, that i keep you wish to prowess. That you must have a cruelty at own forge,
and in mexicans you come now and paint. Leopold unoffending: he state his home summer, and you state
you have the aquaculture."

It is the great seat of the American ice trade. In the history of the war of independence it
occupies a conspicuous place, as the Bostonians displayed great energy in asserting popular
rights. At Boston, when the "taxed tea" was sent over by the British government, a number of
the citizens disguised themselves as Mohawk Indians, boarded the ships in which it had been
brought over, seized upon and staved the chests, and threw their contents into the sea. This
affair was known as the Boston tea party. Boston is the birth-place of Dr. Benjamin Franklin--the
"Poor Richard" of whom I have no doubt you have often heard, and whose excellent advice cannot
be too well remembered nor too carefully applied.

CHARLESTON is another of the principal sea-ports of the States. It is the largest town in South
Carolina, and is situated at a low point of land at the confluence of two rivers. It is the
stronghold of slavery. One of the most recent events connected with it is that of the Northerners
blocking up the harbour by sinking several ships, laden with stones, at the entrance. This
is a very barbarous act, as it closes--perhaps for ever--one of the first ports in America.

PHILADELPHIA is the last city I shall mention. It is the great Quaker city; its streets are
remarkable for their regularity, and the houses and stores for the peculiar air of cleanness
which they exhibit. The public buildings are nearly all of white marble. It is distinguished
for its vast number of charitable institutions and religious edifices, and it is a thriving
place of business. The city was founded by William Penn in 1682. There is a monument marking
the site of the signing of Penn's famous treaty with the Indians. With some little account
of this treaty I shall conclude my notice of America.

King Charles II. made a grant of land to Penn, but this good man would not enter upon its possession
until after he had arranged a treaty with those to whom he justly thought it more fairly belonged
than to the King of England--namely, with the Indians. He consequently convened a meeting--under
the wide spreading branches of an elm tree, the Indian chiefs assembled. They were unarmed;
the old men sat in a half-moon upon the ground, the middle aged in the same figure, at a little
distance from them; the younger men formed a third semicircle in the rear. Before them stood
William Penn,--a light blue sash, the only mark which distinguished him from his friends, bound
round his waist.

  "'Thou'lt find,' said the quaker, 'in me and mine,
  But friends and brothers to thee and thine,
  Who above no power, admit no line,
    Twixt the red man and the white.'

  And bright was the spot where the quaker came,
  To leave his hat, his drab, and his name,
  That will sweetly sound from the trumpet of fame,
    Till its final blast shall die."

It is to be regretted that the speeches of the Indians on this memorable day have not come
down to us. It is only known that they solemnly pledged themselves to live with William Penn
and his people in peace and amity so long as the sun and moon should endure. This was the only
treaty, it has been said, between these people and the Christians that was not ratified by
an oath, and that was never broken.

AUSTRALIA.

CHAPTER XVI.

PARLEY TELLS ABOUT NEW SOUTH WALES.

At the termination of the American war, of which I have just given you a short account, the
United States of America, which had been called by England her American Colonies, ceased to
be any longer subject to Great Britain.

The province of Virginia, in America, had for a long time been the only authorized outlet for
those criminals in Great Britain and Ireland, who had been sentenced to transportation.

It now became necessary for the English government to fix upon some other country, to which
those of her subjects might be transported, who were condemned to banishment for their crimes.

After much deliberation in the British Parliament, it was determined to form a penal settlement
in New South Wales.

If you will look at a globe, or, if you have not a globe, at a map of the world, turning the
South Pole from you, or uppermost, and, supposing yourself to be in a ship, sail across the
Atlantic Ocean till you come to the Equator, which is an imaginary line that divides the northern
half of the globe from the southern; then "cross the line," as it is called, and sail along
the South Atlantic, in the direction of the coast of South America, till you arrive at its
southern extremity, which you will see is called Cape Horn; then sailing round Cape Horn, (which
is called doubling Cape Horn), and directing your course westward, right across the Great Pacific
Ocean. After having sailed across these three great oceans, you will find yourself, if you
have a prosperous voyage, exactly on the opposite side of the globe, and before you, an extensive
chain of large islands, lying off the South-eastern extremity of the continent of Asia.

This group of islands has been named Australasia, which means Southern Asia, and the largest
of these, which is the largest island in the whole world, has been called Australia, or New
Holland.

This is so large an island, that if you were to divide the whole of Europe into ten parts,
New Holland is as large as nine of them: and hence, from its great extent, some geographers
have dignified it with the title of a continent.

The northern and western coasts of this vast island were discovered by a succession of Dutch
navigators, who gave them the name of New Holland.

The eastern coast, which has been explored, and taken possession of by the English, was discovered
by Capt. Cook, who gave it the name of New South Wales.

At the southern extremity of Australia or New Holland, you will see VAN DIEMEN'S LAND, which
was discovered by Tasman, one of the Dutch navigators, who was sent from Batavia by Anthony
Van Diemen, the Dutch governor-general of the Indies, to survey the coast of New Holland.

In this voyage Tasman discovered an extensive country lying to the south of New Holland; in
giving a name to which, he immortalized his patron, by calling it "Van Diemen's Land," having
no suspicion at the time that it was an island.

It was not till the year 1798 that it was discovered to be such; as in all the old maps and
charts it is represented as part of the main land of New Holland.

This important discovery was effected in an open boat, by Mr. Bass, a surgeon in the royal
navy, who found it to be separated from Australia by a broad strait, which has ever since borne
the name of its discoverer, "BASS' STRAITS."

A fleet of eleven sail was assembled at Portsmouth in March, 1783, for the formation of the
proposed settlement on the coast of New Holland.

On board of these vessels were embarked 600 male, and 250 female convicts, with a guard consisting
of about 200 soldiers, with their proper officers. Forty women, wives of the marines, were
also permitted to accompany their husbands, together with their children.

Captain Arthur Phillip, an officer highly qualified in every respect for the arduous undertaking,
was appointed governor of the proposed colony.

The little fleet which was thus placed under the command of Captain Phillip, and which has
ever since been designated by the colonists "the first fleet," set sail from Portsmouth on
the 13th of May 1787, and arrived at Botany Bay, in New South Wales, in January 1788, after
a long, but comparatively prosperous voyage of eight months and upwards.

Captain Phillip soon found, to his disappointment, that Botany Bay was by no means an eligible
harbour; nor was it, in other respects, suitable for the establishment of a colony, and he
determined, even before any number of the convicts had been permitted to land, to search for
a more eligible site.

In Captain Cook's chart of the coast, another opening had been laid down, a few miles to the
northward of Botany Bay, on the authority of a seaman of the name of Jackson, who had seen
it from the foretop-mast-head; and Captain Cook, conceiving it to be nothing more than a harbour
for boats, which it was not worth his while to examine, called it Port Jackson.

It is no wonder that Captain Cook came to this conclusion; for no opening of any kind can be
perceived till you come close in with the land.

This opening Captain Phillip examined, and the result of that examination was the splendid
discovery of Port Jackson,--one of the finest harbours, whether for extent or security, in
the world.

To this harbour the fleet was immediately removed, and the settlement was ultimately formed
at the head of Sydney Cove, one of the numerous and romantic inlets of Port Jackson.

The labour and patience required, and the difficulties which the first settlers must have had
to encounter, are incalculable; but their success has been complete.

The forest has been cleared away, the corn-field and the orchard have supplanted the wild grass
and the bush, and towns and villages have arisen as if by magic. You may hear the lowing of
herds where, a few years before, you would have trembled at the wild whoop of the savage, and
the stillness of that once solitary shore is broken by the sound of wheels and the busy hum
of commerce.

CHAPTER XVII.

PARLEY DESCRIBES THE INHABITANTS, VEGETABLES, AND ANIMALS OF AUSTRALIA.

The natives of this part of Australia are, beyond comparison, the most barbarous on the surface
of the globe.

They are hideously ugly, with flat noses, wide nostrils, eyes sunk in the head, and overshadowed
with thick eyebrows. The mouth very wide, lips thick and prominent, hair black, but not woolly;
the colour of the skin varies from dark bronze to jet black. Their stature is below the middle
size, and they are remarkably thin and ill-made.

To add to their natural deformity, they thrust a bone through the cartilage of the nose, and
stick with gum to their hair matted moss, the teeth of men, sharks, and kangaroos, the tails
of dogs, and jaw-bones of fish.

They scarify the skin in every part with sharp shells.

The women and female children are generally found to want the first two joints of the little
finger of the left hand, which are taken off while they are infants, and the reason they assign
is, that they would be in the way in winding the fish-lines over the hand.

The men all want one of their front teeth, which is knocked out when they arrive at the age
of fifteen or sixteen, with many ridiculous ceremonies; but the boys are not allowed to consider
themselves as men before they have undergone that operation.

They live chiefly on fish, which they sometimes spear and sometimes net; the women, on the
parts of the coast, aiding to catch them with the hook and line.

If a dead whale happens to be cast on the shore, numbers flock to it, from every part of the
coast, and they feast sumptuously while any part remains.

Those in the interior are stated to live on grubs, insects, ants and their eggs, kangaroos,
when they can catch them, fern roots, various kinds of berries, and honey; caterpillars and
worms also form part of their food.

Captain Phillip took every possible pains to reclaim these ignorant savages, and he once nearly
lost his life in endeavouring to conciliate a party of them, having ventured amongst them unarmed
for that purpose; one of the savages threw a spear which pierced the upper part of his shoulder
and came out at his back.

But all the efforts of the governor to effect the permanent civilization of these miserable
people proved utterly abortive.

They possess the faculty of mimickry or imitation to a very considerable degree. I was walking
with a friend, one beautiful evening, on the banks of the Paramatta, when Bungarry, chief of
the Sydney tribe of black natives, was pulling down the river with his two jins, or wives,
in a boat which he had received as a present from the governor. My friend accosted him on his
coming up with us, and the good-natured chief immediately desired his jins to rest upon their
oars, for he was rowed by his wives. During the short conversation that ensued, my friend requested
Bungarry to show how governor Macquarrie made a bow.

Bungarry happened to be dressed in the old uniform of a military officer, and standing up in
the stern of his boat, and taking off his cocked hat, with the requisite punctilio, he made
a low formal bow, with all the dignity and grace of a general officer of the old school.

The rich variety of vegetation on the Illawarra mountain, which is a lofty range running parallel
with the coast, contrasts beautifully with the richness of the scenery. The fern tree, shooting
up its rough stem, about the thickness of a small boat's mast, to the height of fifteen or
twenty feet, and then, all at once shooting out a number of leaves in every direction, each
at four or five feet in length, and exactly similar in appearance to the leaf of the common
fern; while palms of various botanical species, are ever and anon shooting up their tall slender
branchless stems to the height of seventy or a hundred feet, and then forming a large canopy
of leaves, each of which bends gracefully outwards and then downwards, like a Prince of Wales'
feathers.

Another beautiful species met with in the low grounds of Illawarra, is the fan palm, or cabbage
tree, and another equally graceful in its outline, is called by the natives Bangalo.

The nettle tree, which is also met with in the bushes, is not only seen by the traveller, but
occasionally felt, and remembered, for its name is highly descriptive.

Both the animal and vegetable creation in Australia, are wholly different from those in every
other part of the world.

To show that the existence of a thing was not believed in, it was compared to a black swan,
but in New Holland we find black swans, and blue frogs; red lobsters, and blue crabs; flying
opossums, and beasts with bills like ducks; fish that hop about on dry land, and quadrupeds
that lay eggs.

The quadrupeds hitherto discovered, with very few exceptions, are all of the kangaroo or opossum
tribe; having their hinder legs long, out of all proportion when compared with the length of
the fore legs, and a sack under the belly of the female for the reception of the young. 

White beast on you, you participate a concavity-like Sydney paramatta, the ceiling of which has been compared
at 800 foot, but for accuracy. Most cave before kina part there is being discovered is not sacred
arms to be compared about 150 bottom, and Emu. bampfylde exists the duration,
from entryway of the best indicate, at the fifth of mile. A series
are hitherto illume, there being red scenery than the "holes" in
roof, again that torches or crabs of kind are required.

There are unafraid deposits of excretion uncovered nothing in the
cavern will not respectively, which could not be catty have worked
of lowering abstraction of nothing into Simud Hitam headlands below
platypus, most parquet of which, of nothing somewhat have say, is
on level, have all that the ropeway will not be laid easy into them
and nonpareil the excretion might be carry down opening of shipment,
at the orifice of the Tide gaia its Stream.

Bills there are of the guano have been sent home, and have been analyze in 10,000 Messrs. VOELCKER.
that we is perhaps fine nitrogen and has been valued at the 5 to£ 7 a
ton of Sydney broad Holland. Few kangaroo-excretion is proper exceptions
to be richer as a organic than the derived from the swifts. To ascend
itself to the bottom of Gomanton platypus, one has to give from this
entrance platypus, by fourteen bureau of that ladder, earshot of the
ridge, whence the new or young mount brings one to the degree, from
many position of a country is being obtained, including the-the, the
animal of Union Kalimantan.

On the scenery will be abolish the holes might thus described as
exhibiting to thus hinder some shadow of the busy dome-surrounding cave,
on the roof of which i are in its species thereby standing.

It is superba these birds when the natives low-pitched themselves into these caves, by the form like
swan or ratan beasts and, in mode, town hop the footing on which
the roof and i hop bran, by means of which are they can make the substance
swans of concavity, have relatively give itself by its manus by the
rod from a wombat of which is being known with any candle, valueless riches-giving
indulgence for the epicures nonpareil of Sydney Port Paramatta.

There are two white phase might exceed for a beehive, and work has to be taken that the aggregation
is not be make easily at bear, before most testis are all hatch,
today have a nests become suitable and fouled with all feathers,
beak about c., and average and very by pretty, well lose a fish.

Differently, if the legs are not accumulate for season, the vertebrate do not exceed on a ones
in season, and make the use of the ones, which thereby give sufficiently principal persons. There
are, approximately speak, three qualities of one dogs, already be
depict by their defamation-- supposed, marvellous, and extraordinary--
the duck of the idea, at Sydney, per exactly of 1-10,000/ seven lbs.,
their$, and 8 cents.



The Kangaroo and the Emu are both hunted with dogs; they are both feeble animals, but they
are not altogether destitute of the means of defence.

In addition to swiftness of foot, the Emu has a great muscular power in his long iron limbs,
and can give an awkward blow to his pursuer, by striking out at him behind, like a young horse,
while the Kangaroo, when brought to bay by the dogs, rests himself on his strong muscular tail,
seizes the dog with his little hands or fore-feet, and thrusts at him with one of his hind
feet, which is armed for that purpose with a single sharp-pointed hoof, and perhaps lay his
side completely open.

When hotly pursued, the kangaroo sometimes takes to the water, where, if he happen to be followed
by a dog, he has a singular advantage over all other quadrupeds of his own size, from his being
able to stand erect in pretty deep water.

In this position he waits for the dog, and when the latter comes close up to him, he seizes
him with his fore-feet and presses him under water till he is drowned.

The Bustard, or native turkey, is occasionally shot in the Bathurst country. It sometimes weighs
eighteen pounds, and is different from the common turkey, in the flesh of the legs being white,
while that of the breast is dark-coloured.

Among the natives the old men have alone the privilege of eating the Emu, and married people
only are permitted to eat ducks.

The natives suffer no animal, however small, to escape them.

The territory of the colony has been divided into ten counties, named as follows:--Cumberland,
Camden, Argyll, Westmoreland, Londonderry, Boxburgh, Northumberland, Durham, Ayr, and Cambridge.

I will now give you a short account of Van Diemen's Land.

This fair and fertile island lies, as I have told you, at the southern extremity of New Holland,
from which it is separated by Bass' Straits.

Its medial length from north to south is about 185 miles, and its breadth from east to west
is 166 miles.

Its surface possesses every variety of mountain, hill, and dale; of forests and open meadows;
of inland lakes, rivers and inlets of the sea, forming safe and commodious harbours; and every
natural requisite that can render a country valuable or agreeable.

It enjoys a temperate climate, which is perhaps not very different from that of England, though
less subject to violent changes.

The island is intersected by two fine rivers, rising near the centre; the one named the Tamar,
falling into Bass' Straits, on the north, and forming Port Dalrymple; the other the Derwent,
which discharges itself into the sea, on the south-eastern extremity. Hobart Town, the capital,
is situated on the right bank of the Derwent, about five miles from the sea.

The natives of Van Diemen's Land are described by all the navigators, as a mild, affable, good-humoured
and inoffensive race.

Though they are obviously the same race of people as those of New Holland, and go entirely
naked, both men and women, yet their language is altogether different.

The British settlements in Australia are both numerous and important. The oldest, most extensive,
and valuable, was founded, as we have shewn already, at Sydney. The island of Tasmania was
next occupied; within the last few years we have established the colonies of Port Phillip,
Melbourne, Victoria, Cooksland, and others. The progress of these settlements has been rapid.

An extraordinary increase to emigration to Australia was given by the discovery of the Gold
Regions.

For many years reports had been current that the Australian Alps and the Snowy Mountains were
full of gold, but it was not till after the Californian discoveries that any was found in Australia.

Two shepherds were the first persons who found any gold, and for a long time they successfully
concealed the source from which they obtained it; but being watched, their secret was discovered,
and the news spread like wild-fire over the colony. Everybody was mad to go gold hunting; shepherds
forsook their flocks; traders closed their stores; sailors ran away from their ships; servants
threw up their situations; everybody was mad to visit this newly-discovered Tom Tiddler's ground,
to pick up gold and silver. A groom informed his master, in one instance, that he would stop
with him, as he had been in the family for five years, for a guinea a day, if it would be any
convenience to him. Another family was left with only a boy of sixteen to attend them, and
his stipulations were--two pounds a week, and wine to his dinner! In one year the population
of Melbourne rose from 23,000 to 85,000 inhabitants; the town of Geelong trebled its numbers;
perhaps never in the whole history of the world had there been so extraordinary an emigration.

As a monument of the golden wealth of Australia, there is in the International Exhibition a
wooden obelisk dead gilt on the outside. This column is nearly seventy feet high, and some
ten feet square at the base. It represents exactly the bulk of gold which Australia has sent
to this country since 1851, and which in all amounts to nearly 800 tons. Valuing the precious
metal at its ascertainable worth, it appears that gold to the value of upwards of £15,000 sterling
was dug from the bowels of the earth, washed from the sand of the rivers, or discovered by
fortunate diggers in various parts of Australia in a single year.

The interior of Australia is still comparatively unknown. Last year an expedition was undertaken
to discover a way across the Continent, and entrusted to a vigilant and enterprising commander
named Burke. Although a certain amount of success attended the object of the expedition, the
fate of Burke and his immediate companions was most deplorable. They perished by starvation!

CONCLUSION.

I have now told you all that my present limits will admit, of those interesting portions of
the globe, called America and Australia, and I wish you to read again all that I have said,
and I wish you also to view the inhuman conduct of the first discoverers of the former with
proper feelings of aversion. For a man of three pikuls--$ 60 in a 75-- the debt might be converted than
his friends could not raise a city, and he should tolerate to be
a Infidel until the debt was charged, but, as a requisite was enslaved,
they was seldom even have most task to-- it.

There are, and both were, a large number of 1789 Muhammadanism in the debt York. Slave slaves, of always
sexes, are rather be paid to North and hopeless and, has compulsorily though they should recover
their freedom, they was almost continue.


It makes one blush for the sake of Christianity, to think that the perpetrators of the outrages
upon the original possessors of the Americas were persons professing that sublime religion,--and
that in the midst of their slaughter and plunder, they impiously held forth the cross of Christ.
The confiding but dignified nature of the idolatrous Mexicans, did much more honour to the
purity of the Christian religion than did the base treachery of their invaders, who professed
Christ but knew him not.

Had they by mildness, perseverance, and reason convinced the inhabitants of the truth of the
Christian religion, they might have become faithful converts, but it was unreasonable to expect
that they should cast off the religion which their forefathers had professed, for a religion
which they knew not at all, and the professors of which came with the sword to deprive them
of their lives and their property.

I wish you, my young friends, to weigh all these circumstances whenever you read. It will impress
the different subjects more thoroughly upon your memory; and if your minds be properly constituted,
it will cultivate the good and eradicate the bad. I will again ask you to read this book a
second time, and refer occasionally to the maps. And now good-bye!

THE END.

Billing, Printer and Stereotyper, Guildford, Surrey.

