That colony of many heterogeneous populations is above all a military State, a Kriegstaat.
It was created through war and has been organized for war. In the eighteenth century the whole
of Prussia was one vast camp and barracks. The King of Prussia is primarily the Kriegsherr,
or war-lord. The ruling caste of Junkers is a caste of warriors. The very schoolmasters in
the eighteenth century were nearly all recruited from the invalided non-commissioned officers.
Historians single out Fat William, the Sergeant-King, as the supreme type of the martinet King.
But it is not only Fat William, but all the Kings of Prussia who have been martinet Kings and
recruiting sergeants. Prussia has made war into an exact science. Prussia has created the “nation
in arms.”

Geographical conditions and the ambitions of the Hohenzollern have combined to make war a permanent
necessity. Prussia was a “mark” or frontier land, and the margraves or mark-grafs were the
earls and protectors of the Mark. The frontiers of Prussia were open on every side. She was
surrounded by enemies. George William, the father of the Great Elector, during the Thirty Years’
War tried to maintain neutrality. He soon found out that neutrality did not pay, and his territory
was overrun by hostile bands. Pomerania was occupied and retained by the Swedes. Poles, Russians,
and Austrians in turn invaded the country. After the Battle of Kunersdorff, in 1761, Prussia
was at her last gasp, and Frederick the Great found himself in so desperate a position that
he had resolved on committing suicide. Again, after Jena, Berlin was occupied by the French,
and for five years remained under the yoke. Insecurity has been for generations the law of
Prussian existence. The Prussian State has known many ups and downs and has passed through
many tragic vicissitudes. They managed to turn geographical and military necessities to the
advantage of their dynastic ambitions. What was at first commanded by the instinct of self-preservation
became afterwards a habit, a tradition, and a systematic policy. They discovered that the best
way to maintain an efficient defensive was to transform it into a vigorous offensive. They
discovered that the best means of living safely was to live dangerously. They discovered, in
the words of Treitschke, that “the one mortal sin for a State was to be weak.”

VIII.—PRUSSIA AS A PREDATORY STATE.

Not only is Prussia a military State, it is also a predatory State. All the great Powers of
Europe have been in a sense military States. But to them all war has only been a means to an
end, and often a means to higher and unselfish ends. The Spaniards were a military nation,
but their wars were crusades against the Moor. The Russians have been a military nation, but
their wars were crusades against the Turk or wars for the liberation of the Serbians, the Bulgarians,
and the Greeks. The French have been a military nation, but they fought for a chivalrous ideal,
for adventure, for humanity. Even Napoleon’s wars of conquest were really wars for the establishment
of democracy. The Corsican was the champion and the testamentary executor of the French Revolution.

The peculiarity of the Prussian State is that it has been from the beginning a predatory State.
The Hohenzollerns have ever waged war mainly for spoliation and booty. Not once have they waged
war for an ideal or for a principle.

The German Kaiser delights to appear in the garb of the medieval knight. He wears three hundred
appropriate uniforms. A German wit has said that he wears the uniform of an English Admiral
when he visits an aquarium, and that he dons the uniform of an English Field-Marshal when he
eats an English plum-pudding. Amongst those three hundred disguises there is none which is
more popular in Germany than that of the Modern Lohengrin bestriding the world in glittering
armour. The Kaiser lacks the democratic gift of humour, and does not seem to be aware of the
incongruity of the Lohengrin masquerade. A Prussian King cannot honestly play the part of a
knight in quest of the Holy Grail. Chivalry and Prussianism, the crusading spirit and the predatory
spirit, are contradictory terms.

The most exalted Order of the Prussian dynast is the Order of the Black Eagle. The Hohenzollerns
could not have chosen a more fitting emblem than that of the sinister bird of prey. For they
have been pre-eminently the men of prey amongst modern dynasts. Every province of their dominions
has been stolen from their neighbours. They secularized and stole the Church property of the
Teutonic Order. They stole Silesia from Austria. They acquired Posen by murdering a noble nation.
They stole Hanover from its lawful rulers. They stole Schleswig-Holstein from the Danes. They
wrested Alsace-Lorraine from the French.

Circumstances in modern times seem to have singularly favoured their designs of conquest. To
outward appearance they were threatened by powerful enemies, but those enemies looked far more
formidable than they appeared. On the Far Western boundary, the feeble ecclesiastical Princes
of Cologne, Treves, and Mayence ruled over the smiling fields and vineyards of the Rhine provinces.
On every side Germany was broken up into petty principalities. The Holy Roman Empire of Germany,
which was neither Holy nor Roman nor German, and which had ceased to be an empire, was only
the shadow of a great name. Austria was perpetually distracted by internal and external dangers.
Poland was an unruly republic. The very weakness of their neighbours was a temptation to the
Hohenzollern.

The one redoubtable enemy to the Hohenzollern dynasty was Russia. But after the disastrous
defeat of the Seven Years’ War inflicted by Russian arms, Prussia learned to control by deceit
and policy a Power which she dared not challenge, and could not hope to overcome, on the battlefield.
From the middle of the eighteenth century Prussia concluded a dynastic alliance with the Russian
dynasty. The Hohenzollerns liberally provided their Russian brethren with German Princes and
Princesses. The Prince of Holstein, who became Tsar Peter III., was the first German Prince
of the Romanov dynasty. The little Cinderella Princess of Anhalt-Zerbst, the future Catherine
the Great, was the first of an uninterrupted line of German Princesses. The Teutonic barons
of the Baltic provinces for one hundred and fifty years were able to control the Russian foreign
policy. Nesselrode for forty years was the Foreign Minister of the Tsar, although he only spoke
German and did not know a word of Russian. Nicholas I. and Alexander II., with unswerving loyalty,
supported the interests of their Prussian brother-in-law and nephew.

On two occasions the Russian Tsars actually saved the Hohenzollern from complete destruction.
In 1761, when Russian armies occupied Berlin, an apologetic Tsar begged to be forgiven for
daring to vanquish his illustrious cousin. In 1807, at Tilsit, Prussia was only saved from
dismemberment through the quixotic intervention of Tsar Alexander I. And the Russian Tsar proved
so powerless against Prussian intrigues that, although Alexander I. had concluded a close alliance
with Napoleon, the German-Russian Court at St. Petersburg boycotted Napoleon’s Ambassador,
Savary, and eventually succeeded in breaking the Franco-Russian coalition.

But the Hohenzollerns did not only wage a predatory war for conquest and spoliation. Their
methods have been as predatory as their aims. War to them was not merely a policy. It was a
business, and often a lucrative business. In the Middle Ages war had been largely a trade.
A huge commerce in prisoners was transacted, and an enterprising Italian Condottiere would
often recoup himself through the ransom of one single rich prisoner. The Prussians have continued
those medieval methods until this day. Treitschke lays it down in his “Politik” that war must
be made to pay, and need not exhaust a Prussian Treasury.

The poor Belgians to-day are learning to their cost the full meaning of those Prussian predatory
methods. The Prussian invaders are extorting millions of money, as well as enormous food-supplies,
from a starving people. They are dislocating whatever remains of the internal trade. They are
breaking up thousands of miles of Belgian railways, and they are sending them to the Polish
theatre of war. But, brutally as the poor Belgians have been treated, one shudders to think
of the cruelty and the greed of the Prussian in the new conquered Russian territories, and
of the pitiful plight of the Poles and the Lithuanians.

IX.—PRUSSIA AS A FEUDAL STATE.

Prussia in her fiscal and commercial policy may be called a typical modern State. The Hohenzollerns
have been compelled to utilize all the resources of commerce and industry, not because they
are liberal or progressive, but merely in order to increase the national revenue, in order
to provide for an ever-swelling military expenditure. On the contrary, in her political constitution
Prussia has remained a medieval and feudal State. She is the Paradise of the Junker. But Prussian
Junkerthum is not merely a squirearchy of independent landowners. Mr. Bernard Shaw, in his
“Common Sense about the War,” in which one ounce of common sense is mixed with three ounces
of nonsense, would make us believe that there is little difference between German Junkerthum
and British Junkerthum, and that there is little to choose between the English Junker, Sir
Edward Grey, and a Pomeranian squire. Mr. Shaw must have studied Prussian conditions to very
little purpose when he makes so ludicrous a comparison. To call such a quiet, silent country
gentleman, such a law-abiding Parliamentarian as Sir Edward Grey, to call even him a typical
Prussian Junker is a travesty of the facts. A more striking contrast to the complete Junker
of Pomerania than the “Complete Angler” of the Foreign Office could not well be imagined. The
glorified Prussian Junker is Bismarck. The typical Junker is Prince Blücher. A perfect modern
type is that fiery Freiherr von Oldenburg, who advised the Kaiser to send a troop of Uhlans,
as in the old Cromwellian days, to clear out the politicians of a disloyal Reichstag.

The Prussian Junkers are the lieges of the war-lord. They are all the more loyal to the throne
as they are poor, and therefore dependent on the King for their very subsistence. There are
few large estates in Prussia, and they yield but a meagre revenue. The relations of the Junkers
to the Hohenzollerns are the relations of William the Conqueror to his companions-in-arms.
The Junkers originally held their broad acres, their Rittergut, by military tenure. Some of
their feudal privileges have gone, but they continue to be the leading political power in the
State under the Kaiser’s Majesty. They are the pillars of the throne. They owe military service.
To recall the words of the Sergeant-King, they are “dem Regiment obligat.” And they are rewarded
for their military services by privileges innumerable. They are the controlling influence in
the Landtag, which is a representative assembly only in name. They occupy the higher posts
in the Civil Service and in the Diplomatic Service. In each district the Landrat is the supreme
authority, the electioneering agent of the Government and the representative of the Prussian King.

And the Junker caste have been as selfish, as rapacious, as their Hohenzollern overlords. Nothing
could be more sordid than their attitude in the recent campaign for financial reform. They
have shifted the burden of taxation upon the weaker shoulders of the peasant and artisan. They
have compelled von Bülow to reverse the Liberal Free Trade policy of Caprivi, and to impose
heavy corn duties, merely to increase their own rents.

X.—PRUSSIA AS A DESPOTIC STATE.

In a military State like Prussia, which is mainly organized for war, where war is the vital
function, not only does the King hold his power by the Divine right of the sword, but even
in times of peace all political power is concentrated into his hands: “L’état c’est moi!”

In such a State a Parliamentary Government is an absurdity, and, as a matter of fact, there
is no Parliamentary Government, neither in Prussia nor in the Empire. There is no responsible
Cabinet. The Chancellor is accountable, not to the majority of the Reichstag, but to the Kaiser.
The Germans imagine that because they have the fiction of universal suffrage they possess the
most democratic Government in Europe. And an enthusiastic German triumphantly reminded me of
the fact at a mass meeting which I recently held in San Francisco on behalf of the Allies.
I reminded him that Bismarck himself has given us in his “Memoirs” the Machiavellic reasons
which induced him to invent the fiction of universal suffrage. The man of blood and iron tells
us that he only adopted universal suffrage as a temporary device to convert the German States
to the Prussian policy, and as a means of influencing the people against the federal dynasties.

The Reichstag is essentially different from a British House of Commons. As a political body
it is the most contemptible assembly in Europe. It is a mere debating club, a convenient machine
to vote the Government taxes. And even the power of voting has been largely taken from it.
It has become part of the German constitutional practice that the military estimates must be
passed without discussion. It is only considerable increases of the army and navy which have
to be submitted to the Reichstag, and those increases are generally voted for a number of years.
In 1887 a characteristic episode happened. Bismarck had decided on formidable additions to
the army, and he wanted those additions voted and guaranteed for seven years. The military
“Septennate Law” frightened even a docile Reichstag, and the Catholic party refused to vote
it. Bismarck, who for ten years had fought the Pope, and who had thundered against the interference
of a foreign ecclesiastical potentate in temporal matters, now asked the Pope to interfere
in favour of the Army Bill. To the discredit of the Papacy, Leo XIII. fell into the trap. Leo
XIII. exerted pressure on the Catholic party. But they still were recalcitrant. Bismarck and
the Pope proved equally persistent. Finally, at the behest of the Iron Chancellor and with
the assistance of the Vicar of Christ, the Reichstag passed that fatal military law, which
was the beginning of the colossal European armaments, which were to increase the political
tension of Europe until breaking-point, and which was to result in the present catastrophe.
Thus is Parliamentary Government carried on in the Empire of the Hohenzollern!

Passive obedience and discipline are the cardinal virtues inculcated by the Hohenzollern. “Verboten,”
“Nicht raisonniren,” are their watchwords. A Hohenzollern brooks no opposition. “Wir bleiben
doch der Herr und Koenig und thun was wir wollen,” said the Sergeant-King. And two hundred
years after, the Kaiser expresses the same imperial sentiments: “Wer mir nicht gehorcht, den
zerschmettere ich” (Whoever refuses to obey, I shall smash). Bismarck, who created the German
Empire, was dismissed like a lackey. Baron von Stein, who reformed the Prussian State, and
who stands out as the greatest statesman of his age, was ignominiously dismissed. Ingratitude
has always formed part of the Hohenzollern code of royal ethics.

We are told by the apologists of the Hohenzollern that the same discipline, the same obedience
to duty, are practised by the rulers themselves. “Ich Dien” is the Hohenzollern motto. Of all
the servants of the Prussian State, there is none who serves it more loyally, more strenuously,
than the King of Prussia. “I am the Commander-in-Chief and the Minister of Finance of the King
of Prussia,” said the Sergeant-King of himself. How often have the Prussian Kings been held
up as shining examples of devotion to duty! Behold how hard a Hohenzollern King has to work
for the State! In the same way the business man who rules his staff with a rod of iron might
say to his discontented workmen: “See how strenuously I labour for the success of the business!”
The workmen would probably answer that the ceaseless toil of the business man is not wholly
disinterested, that the millionaire manufacturer is not a philanthropist; and the apologists
of the Hohenzollern might be reminded that a King of Prussia in every generation has been wont
to work mainly for himself.

XI.—THE HOHENZOLLERN AS THE CHAMPIONS OF PROTESTANTISM.

Treitschke urges as one of the chief claims of the Hohenzollerns that they have been in modern
Europe the champions of the Protestant religion and at the same time the apostles of toleration.
Is not the Kaiser the supreme head of his Church and the Anointed of the Lord? Does not he
still preach edifying sermons to his soldiers and sailors? And does he not at the same time
extend his Imperial protection over believers of every creed?

The truth is that the Hohenzollerns have never been the champions of Protestantism, but have
astutely and consistently exploited it for their own purposes. They did espouse the Lutheran
and Calvinistic faith, but their conversion enabled them to appropriate the vast dominions
of the Church, a spoliation which might have presented some difficulties if they had remained
Catholic. We saw that, during the Thirty Years’ War, during the supreme crisis of Protestantism,
William George, Elector of Brandenburg, remained neutral and allowed the Northern hero, Gustavus
Adolphus, and Cardinal Richelieu to champion the cause of the Protestant religion.

Not only did the Hohenzollerns not defend the Protestant religion; they perverted it and debased
it by subjecting it to the Prussian State. Such subjection is the negation of Protestantism,
as it is the negation of Christianity. Christianity in a political sense has always meant the
separation of the spiritual and the temporal powers. It is the essence of Anglo-Saxon Protestantism
that it actually does protest. It is of the essence of Nonconformity that it refuses to conform.
Prussian Protestantism has ceased to protest, and conforms to whatever is demanded by the State.
The Lutheran parson is the obedient servant of the Hohenzollern. “Cujus regio illius religio”:
spiritual allegiance must follow temporal allegiance.

The ultimate outcome of the confusion of spiritual and temporal powers in Prussia has been
that Prussia has become the Atheist State, and it is because the Prussian State is an Atheist
State and absolutely indifferent to the interests of religion that it has come to practise
in its own peculiar way the political virtue of toleration. As the Prussian wars of conquest
had brought together many heterogeneous populations professing different religions, toleration
became a vital necessity for the State. It is not a virtue of the dynasty, and the Hohenzollerns
certainly deserve no credit for it. The Prussian doctrine of toleration has always been of
a negative and conditional kind. Prussian Kings have adopted the religious theory of Gibbon.
All religions are equally true to the believer. They are equally true to the unbeliever. They
are equally useful to the State.

All religions have proved equally useful and have been exploited with equal indifference by
the Prussian dynasty. The attitude of Frederick the Great to religion is characteristic of
the Hohenzollern attitude. Frederick the Great was surrounded by a band of French, Swiss, and
Scottish Atheists. His main relaxation from the cares of State was to bandy cynical and obscene
jests on Christianity with the Table Round at the private supper-parties of Potsdam. But his
royal hatred and contempt for all positive religion did not prevent him from cordially inviting
the Jesuits to his dominions because he found them useful pedagogues to teach and conciliate
his newly conquered Polish subjects. It is one of the paradoxes of history that the same religious
order which had been suppressed by the Pope and expelled by the Catholic Kings of France and
Spain was protected by the Atheist King of Prussia and the Atheist Empress of Russia. According
to the same opportunist Hohenzollern tradition, Bismarck in turn fought the Pope, imprisoned
Bishops and Cardinals, and then used the influence of the Pope and the hierarchy to further
his Machiavellian policy. Even so in more recent times the Kaiser appeared at one and the same
time as a devout pilgrim to the Holy Land, as the special friend of Abdul Hamid—Abdul the Damned—and
as the self-appointed protector of three hundred million Mohammedans.

XII.—HOW THE GERMAN PEOPLE WERE SUBJECTED TO PRUSSIA.

We have analyzed the principles which ever directed the Prussian State. We have described the
characteristics of the Hohenzollern dynasty who created that Prussian State. How is it that
the German nation should have surrendered their destinies to a power which is so constitutionally
selfish, so inherently evil, which has trampled down all the principles that a modern world
holds dear and sacred?

The subjection of Germany to Prussia has been a triumph of Hohenzollern diplomacy and deceit,
and has been the outcome of a tragic misunderstanding on the part of a politically uneducated
and inexperienced people. The German people were tired of their political impotence, of their
miserable dynastic quarrels, of their abject subservience to their parasitic princelings. The
German people, broken up in a hundred petty States, had the legitimate and praiseworthy ambition
of becoming a united people. German unity had been for generations a cherished dream of German
patriots. History had abundantly proved that the Austrian Empire could not assist in the realization
of that dream. Then came the opportunity of the Prussian tempter. Prussia offered her mighty
sword. Prussia alone had the military power and a strong political organization. The German
States yielded to the temptation. They trusted that, in concluding an alliance with Prussia,
they would retain their liberties. Indeed, they hoped that once German unity was realized,
Germany would assimilate and absorb the Prussian State. Alas! it was the Hohenzollern State
which was to annex and subject the German Empire. Little did the Germans know Prussian tenacity.
Little did they know the rapacity of the Black Eagle. Still less did they know the black magic
of the necromancer Bismarck.

Treitschke reminds us in his “Politik” of an incident which is characteristic of the relation
of the German Empire to Prussia. On one occasion even Bismarck, the Prussian Junker, expressed
a misgiving that a particular law would not be acceptable to the Federal States of the Empire.
Emperor William contemptibly dismissed the objection. “Why should the Federal States object
when they are only the prolongation of Prussia?” Treitschke, the Saxon, accepts the Prussian
theory of Emperor William. He tells us proudly that the Federal States have ceased to be independent
States—indeed, that they have lost the essential characteristics of a State, that they are
only called States by courtesy, that there is only one State in the German Empire, and that
all the other Federal communities only continue their precarious existence by virtue and with
the consent of the Hohenzollern dynasty.

It is one of the most appalling misunderstandings of history. Like Faust, the German people
have sold their soul to Mephistopheles: Bismarck. And they have sold it for power. They are
now paying the price. As in the wonderful old ballad of Burger, the Prussian horseman has taken
the maiden “Germania” on his saddle. The death’s-head hussar has carried her away on his wild
career through space until he has brought her to the gates of Hell.

It has thus been the fate of the German nation, as of other European nations, to work and fight
for the aggrandizement of the King of Prussia. A section of the people, the Social Democrats
and the Liberals, have made fitful and impotent efforts to free themselves from the tyranny
of the Hohenzollern. What they have not succeeded in doing, Europe is now doing for them. In
the fulness of time, Europe has arisen to crush the Hohenzollern, to kill the “Spirit of the
Prussian Hive.” The war will result in the enfranchisement of Germany as it will result in
the enfranchisement of Poland and Serbia. Did the history of the world ever present so tragic
a paradox? Twelve million heroes are fighting the German Government. Millions of the manhood
of the civilized world are laying down their lives on all the battlefields of Europe and all
the high seas of the world, mainly in order to make the German people free.

XIII.—JUDGMENT ON THE HOHENZOLLERN STATE.

In 1807, after the crushing defeat inflicted by Napoleon on the Prussian armies at Jena, when
the Military Monarchy crumbled to pieces in one day like a house of cards, Joseph de Maistre,
the most profound and the most prophetic political thinker of his age, wrote the following
significant lines from St. Petersburg. To realize the full significance of the judgment, one
must remember that Count de Maistre was a fanatic supporter of the old monarchic order. He
hated Napoleon with a bitter hatred, but he hated Prussia more:

“Ever since I have started to reason, I have felt a special aversion for Frederick II., whom
a frenzied generation has been in a hurry to proclaim a great man, but who was really no more
than a great Prussian. Posterity will consider this Prince as one of the greatest enemies of
the human species that has ever lived. His monarchy, which had inherited his spirit, had become
an argument against Providence. To-day that argument has been converted into a tangible proof
of eternal justice. This famous structure built with blood and mud, with debased coin and base
libels, has crumbled in the twinkle of an eye.”[12]

    [12] De Maistre, “Lettres et Opuscules.”

Those words were written exactly one hundred and ten years ago, and the world is once more
anxiously looking forward to another Jena which will deal a final blow to the Hohenzollern
monarchy. When that catastrophe comes, Europe, enlightened by the awful experiences of the
last hundred years, and delivered from the black magic of the political necromancers of Potsdam,
will unanimously echo the prophetic judgment pronounced by Joseph de Maistre. For to-day, even
more than in 1807, Prussia has become an “argument against Providence.” Even more than in 1807
the Prussia of 1917 “is built with blood and mud.” Even more than in 1807 the chastisement
of Prussia is demanded by “eternal justice.” The whole civilized world will breathe more freely
when the sinister and diabolical power will be broken for ever and will oppress and degrade
humanity no more.

CHAPTER IV

THE GERMAN WAR-TRIUMVIRATE

I.—NIETZSCHE.

The English reader is now in possession of a complete translation of Nietzsche, in the admirable
edition published by T. N. Foulis, and edited by Oscar Levy, of which the eighteenth and concluding
volume has just appeared. To the uninitiated I would recommend as an introductory study: (1)
Professor Lichtenberger’s volume; (2) Ludovici, “Nietzsche” (1s., Constable), with a suggestive
preface by Dr. Levy; (3) the very useful summary of Mr. Mügge—an excellent number in an excellent
series (Messrs. Jack’s “People’s Books”); (4) Dr. Barry’s chapter in the “Heralds of Revolt,”
giving the Catholic point of view; (5) Mrs. Förster-Nietzsche, “The Young Nietzsche”; and (6)
an essay by the present writer, published as far back as 1897, and which, therefore, may at
least claim the distinction of having been one of the first to draw attention in Great Britain
to the great German writer. But a searching estimate of Nietzsche in English still remains
to be written. And there is only one man that could write it, and that man is Mr. Gilbert K.
Chesterton. I confidently prophesy that a study of Nietzsche, if he has the courage to undertake
it, will be Mr. Chesterton’s greatest book. He will find in the German heretic a foe worthy
of his steel.

I.

Like the history of most great thinkers, like the history of Kant and Schopenhauer, the biography
of Nietzsche is totally barren of incident, and can be disposed of in a few lines. Born in
1844, apparently of noble Polish extraction (“Nizky” in Polish means humble), the son of a
clergyman, and the descendant on both sides of a long line of clergymen, the future “Anti-Christ”
spent an exemplary, studious, and strenuous youth. After serving his time in the army—he was
considered one of the best riders of his regiment—and after a brilliant University career at
Bonn and Leipzig, he was appointed, at twenty-four years of age, Professor of Greek in the
University of Bale. His academic activity extended over eleven years, and was only interrupted
in 1870 by a few months’ service in the Ambulance Corps, during the Franco-German War.

His first book, “The Birth of Tragedy,” appeared in 1871. Like most of his books, it was published
at his own expense, and, like most of his books, it did not find a public. The three first
parts of his masterpiece, “Thus Spake Zarathustra,” were such a desperate failure that Nietzsche
only ventured to print fifty copies of the fourth and concluding part, and he printed them
merely for private circulation amongst his friends, but he only disposed of seven copies!

In 1879 he resigned, owing to ill-health, with a pension of £120. After his retirement he spent
a nomadic life wandering from Nice to Venice, and from the Engadine to Sicily, ever in quest
of health and sunshine, racked by neuralgia and insomnia, still preaching in the desert, still
plunging deeper and deeper into solitude. And as the world refused to listen to him, Nietzsche
became more and more convinced of the value of his message. His last book, “Ecce Homo,” an
autobiography, contains all the premonitory symptoms of the threatening tragedy. It is mainly
composed of such headings as the following: “Why I am so Wise,” “Why I am so Clever,” “Why
I write such Excellent Books,” and “Why I am a Fatalist.”

Alas! fatality was soon to shatter the wise and clever man who wrote those excellent books.
In 1889 Nietzsche went mad. For eleven years he lingered on in private institutions and in
the house of his old mother at Naumburg. He died in 1900, when his name and fame had radiated
over the civilized world, and when the young generation in Germany was hailing him as the herald
of a new age. England, as usually happens in the case of Continental thinkers, was the last
European country to feel his influence; but in recent years that influence has been rapidly
gaining ground, even in England, a fact abundantly proved by the great and startling success
of the complete edition of his works.

II.

Most writers on Nietzsche—and they are legion—begin with extolling him as a prophet or abusing
him as a lunatic. I submit that before we extol or abuse, our first duty is to understand.
And we can no longer evade that duty. We cannot afford any longer to ignore or dismiss the
most powerful force in Continental literature, on the vain pretence that the author was mad,
as if the greatest French thinker of the eighteenth century, Rousseau, and the greatest thinker
of the nineteenth century, Auguste Comte, had not fallen victims to the same disease.

And, on the whole, Nietzsche is not difficult to understand, although there has arisen a host
of commentators to obscure his meaning, although Nietzsche himself delights in expressing himself
in the form of cryptic and mystic aphorism, although he continuously contradicts himself. But
apart from those difficulties, his message is strikingly simple and his personality is singularly
transparent. And his message and his personality are one. He is a convincing illustration of
Fichte’s dictum, that any great system of philosophy is the outcome, not of the intellect,
but of a man’s character. Nietzsche is not a metaphysician like Hegel, whom he abhorred. He
is not a “logic-grinder,” like Mill, whom he despised. He is a moralist, like the French, whom
he loved. His culture and learning were French even more than German. He was steeped in Montaigne,
to whom he has paid a glowing tribute in “Schopenhauer as Educationalist.” He was a careful
student of the great French classics of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. He read and
annotated Guyau, with whom he had many points in common. By a curious coincidence, a few years
before the advent of Nietzsche, a great French thinker had anticipated every one of Nietzsche’s
doctrines, and had expressed them in one of the most striking books of the French language.
And by an even more curious paradox, whilst every European critic devotes himself to-day to
the interpretation of Nietzsche’s philosophy, they systematically ignore—as Nietzsche himself
ignored—the masterpiece of the Frenchman.

III.

Let us, then, first keep in mind that Nietzsche is not a metaphysician or a logician, but he
is pre-eminently a moralist. His one aim is to revise our moral values and to establish new
values in their place. For Nietzsche does both. There are two poles to his thought. He is an
iconoclast, but he is also a hero-worshipper. He is a herald of revolt, but he is also a constructive
thinker. Even in his earliest work, “Thoughts out of Season,” whilst he destroys the two popular
idols of the day, the theologian and the historian, he sets up two new heroes, Schopenhauer
and Wagner.

IV.

We have said that Nietzsche’s philosophy is strikingly simple. Its whole kernel can be expressed
in two words. He is a systematic pagan, and he is an uncompromising aristocrat. As a pagan,
he is a consistent enemy of Christianity. As an aristocrat, he is a bitter opponent of democracy.
He proclaims that Anti-Christ has appeared in his own person. He hails the advent of the Superman.

First, he is a pagan, a pagan of Greece, or, rather, a pagan of the Renascence, and, as a pagan,
he considers Christianity the real enemy. Christianity denies life; Nietzsche asserts it. Christianity
mainly thinks of the future world; Nietzsche has his feet firmly planted on Mother Earth. Christianity
glorifies meekness and humility; Nietzsche glorifies pride and self-assertion. Christianity
defends the poor and the weak; Nietzsche contends that the strong alone have a right to live.
Christianity blesses the peacemakers; Nietzsche extols the warriors. Christianity is the religion
of human suffering; Nietzsche is a worshipper of life, and proclaims the joyful science, die
fröhliche Wissenschaft, the gaya scienza.

It is impossible within the limits of a short article to discuss Nietzsche’s view of Christianity.
We are concerned here not with discussion, but with exposition. At an early opportunity we
hope to deal at some length in the columns of Everyman with Nietzsche’s criticism of Christianity.
For the present, let it be sufficient to say that no theologian would be prepared to accept
his interpretation of the Christian religion. The everlasting conflict of spirit against sense
and brutal force, which is the essence of Christianity, is hardly conducive to passivity. It
is, on the contrary, a consistent discipline in modern heroism. There is not much meekness
about the Jesuits or the warrior Popes. Nor is there much melancholy about St. Francis of Assisi
or St. Theresa. The only smiling countenance in a hospital is the Sister of Mercy. The only
active resisters under the despotism of Henry VIII. were Sir Thomas More and a broken octogenarian
priest, Cardinal Fisher.

V.

The same fundamental instinct or principle, the same defiant optimism, the same exultation
in the pride of life, which makes Nietzsche into an opponent of Christianity, also makes him
into an opponent of democracy. The same belief in force, in the will to power, which makes
Nietzsche into a pagan, also makes him into an aristocrat. For the political expression of
Christianity must needs be democracy. We are democrats because we are Christians, because we
believe in the essential dignity of man. On the contrary, the political outcome of paganism
must needs be despotism and aristocracy. We believe in despotism and aristocracy because we
believe in the natural inequality of man, because we believe in force and pride and self-assertion,
in the power of the strong to oppress the weak. Nietzsche is against the oppressed and for
the oppressor; for the Superman against humanity. For in Nietzsche’s view an aristocracy is
the ultimate purpose of life.

But Nietzsche is not an aristocrat, like the ordinary Darwinian. He does not believe in the
survival of the fittest, like the typical evolutionist. He does not believe that a survival
of the fittest will come about mechanically by the mere play of blind forces. Regression is
as natural as progression. No one has pointed this out more convincingly than Huxley in his
“Evolution and Ethics.” The progress of the race is not natural, but artificial and accidental
and precarious. Therefore Nietzsche believes in artificial selection. The Superman is not born,
he must be bred. Nietzsche is the spiritual father and forerunner of the Eugenists.

And he is also the spiritual father of the Imperialists and latter-day Militarists. The gospel
of the inequality of the individual implies the gospel of the inequality of race. The gospel
of Nietzsche has not only been anticipated by Mr. Joseph Chamberlain, but by his much more
influential German namesake, Mr. Houston Stewart Chamberlain, the author whose books the Kaiser
liberally distributed amongst his Generals and advisers. The doctrine of force, the belief
in the German people as the salt of the earth, the self-gratification of the modern Teuton,
can be traced directly to the influence of Zarathustra, and it is significant that the latest
German exponent of Imperialism, General von Bernhardi, should have selected an aphorism of
Nietzsche as the quintessence of his political philosophy:

“War and courage have achieved more great things than the love of our neighbour. It is not
your sympathy, but your bravery, which has hitherto saved the shipwrecked of existence.

“‘What is good?’ you ask. ‘To be braced is good.’”[13]

    [13] Nietzsche’s “Thus Spake Zarathustra,” First Part, 10th
    Speech.

VI.

Quite apart from any elements of truth contained in Nietzsche’s ethics, the first reason for
his popularity is, no doubt, the perfection of his form and style. Nietzsche is one of the
supreme masters of language, in a literature which counts very few masters of language, and
the beauty of his style is transparent even in the disguise of a foreign translation.

The second reason is that Nietzsche, who imagined that he was fighting against the times, was
in reality thinking with the times, and he has met with a ready response, in the dominant instincts
of the present age, in the aggressive materialism, in the race for wealth and power. The Supermen
and the Super-races of to-day only too cordially accept a philosophy which seems to justify
extortion, aggression, and oppression in the name of a supreme moral principle.

The third and most important reason, and the real secret of Nietzsche’s influence, is the fine
quality of his moral personality. However much we may be repelled by the thinker, we are attracted
by the magnetism of the man, by his noble courage, by his splendid integrity, by his love of
truth, his hatred of cant. Even though he has himself misunderstood Christianity, he has done
a great deal to bring us back to the fundamental ideals of the Christian religion. He has done
a great deal to undermine that superficial and “rose-water” view of Christianity current in
official and academic Protestant circles. He has done a great deal to convince us that whatever
may be the essence of Christianity, it has nothing in common with that silly and pedantic game
which, for half a century, has made Eternal Religion depend on the conclusions of “Higher Criticism,”
and which has made theology and philosophy the handmaidens of archæology and philology.

Nietzsche is a formidable foe of Christianity, but he is a magnanimous foe, who certainly brings
us nearer to a comprehension of the inmost meaning of the very doctrines he attacks. And it
is quite possible that the Christian champion of the future may incorporate Nietzsche in his
apologetics, even as St. Thomas Aquinas incorporated Aristotle, even as Pascal incorporated
Montaigne. It was in the fitness of things that Nietzsche should be the descendant of a long
line of Protestant ministers. For, indeed, he is the last of the true German Protestants, ever
ready to protest and to defy and to challenge. He is the noblest of modern German heretics.

II.—MONTAIGNE AND NIETZSCHE.

I.

There is a continuity and heredity in the transmission of ideas as there is in the transmission
of life. Each great thinker has a spiritual posterity, which for centuries perpetuates his
doctrine and his moral personality. And there is no keener intellectual enjoyment than to trace
back to their original progenitors one of those mighty and original systems which are the milestones
in the history of human thought.

It is with such a spiritual transmission that I am concerned in the present paper. I would
like to establish the intimate connection which exists between Montaigne and Nietzsche, between
the greatest of French moralists and the greatest of Germans. A vast literature has grown up
in recent years round the personality and works of Nietzsche, which would already fill a moderately
sized library. It is therefore strange that no critic should have emphasized and explained
the close filiation between him and Montaigne. It is all the more strange because Nietzsche
himself has acknowledged his debt to the “Essays” with a frankness which leaves no room to doubt.

To anyone who knows how careful Nietzsche was to safeguard his originality, such an acknowledgment
is in itself sufficient proof of the immense power which Montaigne wielded over Nietzsche at
a decisive and critical period of his intellectual development. But only a systematic comparison
could show that we have to do here with something more than a mental stimulus and a quickening
of ideas, that Montaigne’s “Essays” have provided the foundations of Nietzsche’s philosophy,
and that the Frenchman may rightly be called, and in a very definite sense, the “spiritual
father” of the German.

II.

At first sight this statement must appear paradoxical, and a first reading of the two writers
reveals their differences rather than their resemblances. The one strikes us as essentially
the sane; the other, even in his first books, reveals that lack of mental balance which was
to terminate in insanity. The one is a genial sceptic; the other is a fanatic dogmatist. To
Montaigne life is a comedy; to his disciple life is a tragedy. The one philosophizes with a
smile; the other, to use his own expression, philosophizes with a hammer. The one is a Conservative;
the other is a herald of revolt. The one is constitutionally moderate and temperate; the other
is nearly always extreme and violent in his judgment. The one is a practical man of the world;
the other is a poet and a dreamer and a mystic. The one is quaintly pedantic, and his page
is often a mosaic of quotations; the other is supremely original. The one is profuse in his
professions of loyalty to the Roman Catholic Church; the other calls himself Anti-Christ.

III.

There can be no doubt that if the characteristics which we have just referred to belonged essentially
to Montaigne, there would be little affinity between the thought of Nietzsche and that of Montaigne.
And it would be impossible to account for the magnetic attraction which drew Nietzsche to the
study of the “Essays,” and for the enthusiasm with which they inspired him. But I am convinced
that those characteristics are not the essential characteristics. I am convinced that there
is another Montaigne who has nothing in common with the Montaigne of convention and tradition.
I am convinced that the scepticism, the Conservatism, the irony, the moderation, the affectation
of humility, frivolity, pedantry, and innocent candour, are only a mask and disguise which
Montaigne has put on to conceal his identity, that they are only so many tricks and dodges
to lead the temporal and spiritual powers off the track, and to reassure them as to his orthodoxy.
I am convinced that beneath and beyond the Montaigne of convention and tradition there is another
much bigger and much deeper Montaigne, whose identity would have staggered his contemporaries,
and would have landed him in prison. And it is this unconventional and real Montaigne who is
the spiritual father of Nietzsche.

The real and esoteric Montaigne is, like Nietzsche, a herald of revolt, one of the most revolutionary
thinkers of all times. And the Gascon philosopher who philosophizes with a smile is far more
dangerous than the Teuton who philosophizes with a hammer. The corrosive acid of his irony
is more destructive than the violence of the other. Like Nietzsche, Montaigne transvalues all
our moral values. Nothing is absolute; everything is relative. There is no law in morals.

“The laws of conscience, which we pretend to be derived from nature, proceed from custom; everyone
having an inward veneration for the opinions and manners approved and received amongst his
own people, cannot, without very great reluctance, depart from them, nor apply himself to them
without applause.”

There is no absolute law in politics. And one form of government is as good as another.

“Such people as have been bred up to liberty, and subject to no other dominion but the authority
of their own will, look upon all other forms of government as monstrous and contrary to nature.
Those who are inured to monarchy do the same; and what opportunity soever fortune presents
them with to change, even then, when with the greatest difficulties they have disengaged themselves
from one master, that was troublesome and grievous to them, they presently run, with the same
difficulties, to create another; being unable to take into hatred subjection itself.”

There is no law in religion. There is no justification in patriotism. The choice of religion
is not a matter of conscience or of reason, but of custom and climate. We are Christians by
the same title as we are Perigordins or Germans.

V.

If to destroy all human principles and illusions is to be a sceptic, Montaigne is the greatest
sceptic that ever existed. But Montaigne’s scepticism is only a means to an end. On the ruin
of all philosophies and religions Montaigne, like Nietzsche, has built up a dogmatism of his
own. The foundation of that dogmatism in both is an unbounded faith in life and in nature.
Like Nietzsche, Montaigne is an optimist. At the very outset of the “Essays” he proclaims the
joy of life. He preaches the gaya scienza, the fröhliche Wissenschaft. All our sufferings are
due to our departing from the teachings of Nature. The chapter on cannibalism, from which Shakespeare
has borrowed a famous passage in “The Tempest,” and which has probably suggested the character
of Caliban, must be taken in literal sense. The savage who lives in primitive simplicity comes
nearer to Montaigne’s ideal of perfection than the philosopher and the saint.

VI.

And this brings us to the fundamental analogy between Nietzsche and Montaigne. Like the German,
the Frenchman is a pure pagan. Here, again, we must not be misled by the innumerable professions
of faith, generally added in later editions and not included in the edition of 1580. Montaigne
is uncompromisingly hostile to Christianity. His Catholicism must be understood as the Catholicism
of Auguste Comte, defined by Huxley—namely, Catholicism minus Christianity. He glorifies suicide.
He abhors the self-suppression of asceticism; he derides chastity, humility, mortification—every
virtue which we are accustomed to associate with the Christian faith. He glorifies self-assertion
and the pride of life. Not once does he express even the most remote sympathy for the heroes
of the Christian Church, for the saints and martyrs. On the other hand, again and again he
indulges in lyrical raptures for the achievements of the great men of Greece and Rome. He is
an intellectual aristocrat. His ideal policy is the policy of the Spartans—“almost miraculous
in its perfection.” His ideal man is the pagan hero—the superman of antiquity—Alcibiades, Epaminondas,
Alexander, Julius Cæsar.

III.—TREITSCHKE[14] AND THE PHILOSOPHY OF PRUSSIANISM.

    [14] Treitschke, “History of Germany,” Vols. I. and II.
    (Jarrold.) Treitschke, “Politics,” with Introduction by A. J.
    Balfour: 2 vols, (Constable, London.)

There is a most baneful delusion which has misled the Allies from the beginning of the war,
and which is still being acted on after three years of a desperate struggle—namely, that we
are mainly fighting a sinister political dynasty and a formidable political machine constructed
with all the diabolical ingenuity and armed with all the resources of the destructive genius
of man. If, indeed, we had only been confronted by the Kaiser and his paladins, or only threatened
by his military machine, the war would long ago have been ended—if not by the Allies, then
by the German people themselves. Millions of people, however loyal, do not allow themselves
to be slaughtered for a dynast, even though that dynast claims to be a Superman, even though
he be called Prince of Schwarzburg-Sondershausen or Schwarzburg-Rudolstadt, even though he
be called Prince Henry XXI. of Reuss of the younger branch or Prince Henry LXXXVIII. of Reuss
of the older branch. Whole nations do not indefinitely submit to being the slaves of a machine,
however diabolical and however perfect. The truth is that behind the German princes and princelings
and Junkers there is the resolve of a united people. Behind the Prussian machine there is the
driving power of tremendous spiritual and moral forces, of an inflexible purpose, of a compelling
idealism, of a mystical creed accepted with more than Mohammedan fanaticism. It is that national
purpose, it is those spiritual forces, which explain the unconquerable pride of the German
people, as evil and as lofty as the pride of Satan in “Paradise Lost.” It is these which explain
their devotion and self-sacrifice, it is these which explain the Teutonic legions marching
to their doom singing their hymns of love as well as their hymns of hatred. It is these which
explain the two million volunteers which in August, 1914, went to swell the huge German conscript
armies. It is the obsession of that mystical German creed which explains the epic achievements
of the German offensive and the even more astounding achievements of the German defensive.
We may continue to denounce the crimes of Germany and the atrocities of the German soldiery—and
I have personally denounced them until my readers must have got sick of my denunciations. But
there is nothing particularly mysterious in crimes and atrocities, and crimes and atrocities
alone do not help to explain the German soul. Crimes and atrocities do not make us understand
how even to-day the German hosts are still able to challenge a whole world in arms.

Let us, then, take in the vital fact that after three years those German spiritual forces,
those perverted German ideals, remain the most formidable obstacle in our path. We may continue
to destroy the German armies by the slow process of attrition, and we may continue to sacrifice
the flower of our youth until the process is completed. We may trust to our superiority in
money-power and in man-power, but unless we also break the moral power of German ideals, unless
we exorcise the spell which possesses the German mind, unless we triumph in the spiritual contest
as well as in the battle of tanks and howitzers, unless we overthrow the idols which successive
generations of great teachers and preachers have imposed on a susceptible, receptive, and docile
people, there will be no early settlement, nor, however long belated, can there ever be a lasting
peace.

The foregoing remarks may justify the following attempt to interpret and to make intelligible,
even to the most inattentive reader, the creed of one of the most powerful of those teachers
and preachers who have taken such mysterious and uncanny possession of the soul of the German
nation. Before 1914 none except a few initiated had ever heard of Treitschke. Since 1914 he
has become a household name and a name of evil import. But to the immense majority of readers
that name, however familiar and ominous, remains an empty name. Nomen flatus vocis. And even
those to whom the name conveys something more definite do not trouble about its meaning. With
that strange disbelief in the power of ideas which is one of our lamentable weaknesses, and
which even the war has not been able to cure, even yet we have not brought ourselves to take
seriously those terrible theories which have burnt themselves into the Teutonic imagination.
And so indifferent have we remained to doctrines so far-reaching and so deadly that the recent
publication of an excellent English translation of Treitschke’s “German History,” one of the
masterpieces of historical literature, has had to be suspended for the incredible reason that
there was no British public to read it.

On approaching the study of Treitschke’s works, we are at once impressed by the inexorable
logic of his political and moral creed. There is, perhaps, no other instance of a system so
splendidly consistent in its principles. We are told that the great French naturalist, Cuvier,
was able to reconstruct the whole anatomy of an animal merely through examining the structure
of a tooth or the fragment of a bone. Applying to the German historian the method which Cuvier
applied to the antediluvian mastodon, we can reduce the whole complex political philosophy
of Treitschke from a few fundamental principles which he follows with a single mind, and which
the Prussian State has applied with an equally relentless consistency both in its internal
and in its foreign policy.

It is this magnificent consistency, this confident dogmatism, which gives us the secret of
the enormous influence of Treitschke on his countrymen, as it explains the hypnotism of Jean-Jacques
Rousseau on a previous generation. I do not think it would be easy to overestimate the extent
of that influence. It is true that in one sense Treitschke’s political philosophy only expresses
the Prussian policy, and that he did not create it. But when a political ideal is expounded
with such clarity and such force, when it is propagated with such enthusiasm, when it takes
such exclusive hold of the mind, it becomes a hundred times more efficient and more dangerous;
it acquires the compelling force and inspires the fanaticism of religion. Those readers who
will follow Treitschke’s close reasoning to the end will probably agree with me that the political
creed of which he has been the apostle and prophet is substantially the same creed which has
plunged Europe into the present world war, and that, more than any one thinker, much more certainly
than Nietzsche, Treitschke must be held responsible for the catastrophe.

I have confined myself to expounding the doctrines of Treitschke. I have not attempted to refute
them. It is not my object to denounce: there is always a sufficient number of publicists ever
ready to undertake the task of denunciation. I am only trying to understand. Nor have I dwelt
on any side-issues. I have restricted myself to those simple and fundamental axioms which have
directed the policy of Prussia. Almost invariably in human history it is only the simple, sweeping
dogmas which obtain universal acceptance.

I.—TREITSCHKE AS THE REPRESENTATIVE PRUSSIAN.

There exist in the realm of fiction certain literary types which are an equal joy to the creative
artist and to the student of human nature. There are certain malignant diseases which are an
inspiration to the pathologist. And there are criminal cases which are a revelation to the
lawyer: test cases which lead up to new discoveries and illustrate fundamental principles.
What those classical types of Balzac or Dostoievski are to the critic, what those diseases
and criminal cases are to the surgeon and the lawyer, the writings of Treitschke are to the
student of history and politics; they throw a new and vivid light on the dark and hidden depths
of the Prussian mind. They reveal like no other German writings the meaning of German policy,
the spirit which inspires it. They explain what without them would have remained unexplained.
He is much more than the historian of the Prussian State, he is the champion of its ideals.
Much better than Bismarck, or the Kaiser, or than the “Clown Prince,” he makes clear to us
the aims and the aspirations of the Hohenzollern monarchy and of the German nation.

In the history of literature and thought it is given to but very few writers thus to become
the spokesmen of a whole people. To achieve such importance a writer must possess many qualifications.
He must possess a strong and dominating character. He must be a great literary artist. He must
be a clear, a bold, and an independent thinker. The following pages will show in how eminent
a degree Treitschke possessed all those qualities and how unreservedly they were placed at
the service of the Prussian cause.

II.—TREITSCHKE’S PERSONALITY.

The first quality which challenges attention is the commanding strength of his personality.
He combines the most contradictory gifts: the temperament of the artist, the imagination of
the poet, the inspiring faith of the idealist, the practical sense of the realist, and the
enthusiasm of the apostle. He always impresses you with that magnetic sense of power into which
Carlyle impresses his readers. Like Carlyle, he is a firm believer in the heroic, and he has
himself the temper of a hero. Three of his volumes of essays bear the significant title, “Deutsche
Kämpfe” (“German Battles”). All through his career Treitschke has been fighting his patriotic
battles. Obsessed by his ideals, he always has the courage of his convictions, and is always
ready to suffer for them. In his early youth he had a painful quarrel with his father, a Saxon
General and a loyal servant of the Saxon dynasty, because the son would not refrain from his
attacks on Saxon “particularism” and would not abstain from championing the Prussian cause.
Treitschke never evades a difficulty. He is never swayed by outside influences. He never dreads
contradiction. When facts do not tally with his favourite theories, he brushes them away. And
he never accepts any compromise. He is all made of one piece. He has the hardness of granite.
He has never been afraid of unpopularity. He has always been a loyal friend and an equally
staunch hater.

III.—TREITSCHKE AS A WRITER.

“Le style est l’homme.” Never was Buffon’s dictum more strikingly verified, and never did any
literary style reveal so completely the personality of the man. Treitschke’s style is imperious
and aggressive. It has the ring of the General who gives the word of command. His sentences
are not involved, as German sentences generally are. They are pregnant and concise. Treitschke
often reminds one of a writer whom of all others he most cordially detests. Like Heine, Treitschke
is incisive, epigrammatic. His phrase has always muscle and nerve: it has warmth and fervour.
Treitschke has not the gift of humour. A German seldom possesses that redeeming gift. But he
wields the weapon of trenchant irony with terrible force, and he adds the poet’s power of vision
and the true historian’s sense of reality and sense of individuality. He has Macaulay’s gift
of orderly narrative. He is equally masterly in describing a battle scene, a meeting of diplomatists,
a revolutionary movement. His picture of the Congress of Vienna is unsurpassed in historical
literature. Like Saint-Simon, he can sum up a character in a few lines. German historians are
seldom skilful portrait-painters. Treitschke forms an exception. His portraits of Talleyrand,
of Metternich, of Tsar Alexander I., of Leopold I., King of the Belgians, are masterpieces
of the literary craft.

IV.—TREITSCHKE AS A CLEAR AND ORIGINAL THINKER.

But all those artistic gifts would not have given him his commanding influence in the world
of practical politics if he had not added the gifts of clear thinking and luminous exposition,
which are so very rare in Germany. Treitschke is essentially an honest and systematic thinker.
As Professor of History in the University of Berlin, he was accustomed to make intricate and
abstract subjects interesting and intelligible to vast audiences of students. We are never
left in any doubt as to his inner meaning. He always goes straight to the point. There are
no equivocations or mental reservations. He has the brevity but none of the ambiguity of the
lawgiver. There are no gaps in his reasoning. He moves from one point to another in orderly
sequence. Our intellectual and artistic joy in following the severe and simple outline of his
political system is only marred by the thought of the appalling practical consequences of those
doctrines.

And not only is he a clear thinker. He is also an original and independent thinker. He has
not the professional taint of the German pedant. He has the German professor’s minute knowledge
of concrete facts, and his doctrinaire love of abstract principles, but he is not a mere scholar
and teacher. He always remains the man of the world, and he brings to the consideration of
historical problems the practical experience which he gained as a journalist and as a member
of the Reichstag. He does not apply any conventional standards to his judgments of men and
events. He looks at everything from his own angle. There is a delightful freshness about everything
he writes. He believes that the first duty of an historian is to be partial. He always follows
a bias, but it is his own bias. In his German history he has not been content with digging
up thousands of new facts from the recesses of German records; he gives his own interpretation
to the facts. He has no respect for established fame, for existing theories. He delights in
shocking his readers. In his “Götzendämmerung,” or “Twilight of the Gods,” Nietzsche has shown
us how to “philosophize with a hammer.” Treitschke has written history with a hammer, and all
his writings are strewn with the fragments of broken idols and shattered reputations.

V.—THE PRUSSIAN STATE THE CENTRE OF TREITSCHKE’S LITERARY ACTIVITIES.

All Treitschke’s activities have centred round one subject: the history and policy of the Prussian
State. All his loyalties are given to one cause, the supremacy of the German Empire led by
the Prussian State. He has been a voluminous writer, and he has written on the most varied
subjects. But all those subjects have only been taken up with the one object of elucidating
Prussian problems and directing Prussian policy. His studies on Federalism, on the United Netherlands—by
far the most suggestive survey of Dutch history which has so far been attempted—are intended
to solve the problem of the relation of Prussia to the Federal States of the German Empire.
His study on Cavour and Italian unity was undertaken as an introduction to the study of German
unity. His admirable monograph on that strange and unique military theocracy of the Teutonic
order was an essay on the early history of Prussia. His volume on Bonapartism was a study of
the chief political opponent of Prussian supremacy. Briefly, all his volumes of essays have
been preparatory to his life-work, the history of Germany, and the history of Germany itself
is always kept subordinate to the history of the Prussian State.

VI.—TREITSCHKE’S TREATISE ON POLITICS.

It is much to be regretted that the British public should have been first introduced to Treitschke’s
“History of Germany.” The “History of Germany” is, no doubt, the most important and the most
monumental, but it is by no means the most interesting nor the most significant of Treitschke’s
writings. German history could never be as arresting to a Continental student as British or
French history. It is not mixed up with universal events. It is too parochial. It does not
evoke human sympathy. With all the magic of Treitschke’s art, we feel that we are following,
not the great highway, but one of the by-ways of history. We cannot get absorbed in the petty
quarrels of the princelings of the German Federation. Of the five volumes of Treitschke’s “German
History,” the only part which is of general interest is the first volume, dealing with the
rise of Prussia, the reign of Frederick the Great and his successors, the Napoleonic wars,
and the Congress of Vienna.

As often happens, it is mainly through his minor writings that Treitschke will live—through
his “Cavour,” his “United Netherlands,” his “Bonapartism,” and his Biographical Essays. But
to the philosophical student by far the most important of Treitschke’s writings are his two
volumes on the Science of Politics, which are, without exception, the most fascinating and
the most suggestive political treatise published in this generation. Political treatises are
proverbially dull and out of touch with reality. Treitschke’s treatise is a solitary exception.
To him politics are not, like mathematics, an abstract or a deductive science. We cannot build
an ideal political structure in the air. The political thinker must be more modest in his ambitions.
He cannot adduce first principles. All politics must be Realpolitik. All politics must be based
on concrete historical facts—i.e., circumscribed in time and space. Indeed, strictly considered,
political philosophy is only applied history. That is why political treatises are so disappointing.
The philosopher is content to generalize, and does not know the facts. On the other hand, the
historian who knows the facts has not the capacity of generalization. Politics must be mainly
empirical. The political thinker does not reason forward from the past to the present, but
backwards from the present to the past. He studies the present results of the mature experience
of many ages, and then explains the distant past in the light of the present.

VII.—PRUSSIA THE SOLE STANDARD OF POLITICAL VALUES.

Not only has Prussian history been the centre of all Treitschke’s activities; it also supplies
him with the sole standard of all political values, the sole test of the truth of all political
theories. With superb logic he deduces all his political system from the vicissitudes of the
Brandenburg State. His sympathies and antipathies, his affinities and repulsions, are Prussian.
Prussia and the German Empire have monopolized all human virtues. His only enemies are the
enemies of the Prussian State (see paragraphs VIII. and IX. of this Essay).

Prussia is a national State, exclusive, self-sufficient, self-contained. Therefore, the national
State is the supreme and final political reality (see paragraph XI.).

All the theories which challenge or threaten this conception of the national State are dismissed
by Treitschke as damnable heresies: the heresy of individualism (see paragraph XII.), the heresy
of internationalism (see paragraph XIII.), and the heresy of imperialism (paragraph XIV.).

The one aim of the Prussian State has been the extension of Prussian power. Therefore the will
to power must be the fundamental dogma of the State (paragraph XV.).

Prussia has always subordinated political ethics to national aggrandizement; therefore Treitschke
holds with Machiavelli that in politics the end justifies the means (paragraph XVI.).

Prussia has only expanded through war. War has been the national industry of the Prussian people.
Therefore war is considered by Treitschke as the vital principle of national life (paragraph
XVII.).

Prussia has been the family estate of the Hohenzollern dynasty; therefore the monarchy must
be considered as the ideal form of government (paragraph XVIII.).

The Prussian military aristocracy of Junkers have been the mainstay of the Prussian State;
therefore an aristocratic government is a corollary of the monarchic form of government, and
the French democratic theory of government is the arch-heresy (paragraphs XIX. and XX.).

Prussia has been the leading Protestant State; therefore Roman Catholicism must be held to
be inconsistent with the prosperity of any modern polity (paragraph XXI.).

Prussia, from a small straggling territory, has grown to be one of the leading Powers of Europe
by the gradual absorption of all the surrounding small States; therefore only great Powers
have a right to exist (paragraph XXII.); therefore small States are a monstrosity (paragraph
XXIII.).

VIII.—TREITSCHKE’S POLITICAL PAGANISM.

There is no counterpart in modern history to the development of the Prussian State, no political
structure so entirely self-contained and self-sufficient, which has so continuously pursued
its own selfish ends. For an exact analogy it is necessary to revert to ancient history; therefore
Treitschke’s sympathies go to the ancient State much more than to the modern State. In his
religion he is a devout Lutheran. But in his political conceptions he is entirely pagan. To
him the politics of Aristotle remain the fountain of all political wisdom. The modern man in
order to understand the majesty of the State must free himself of a whole mass of acquired
notions. In quiet and peaceful times the average man may pursue his private avocations and
hardly give a thought to the State. It was different in antiquity. The ancient city State was
everything, and was felt to be everything, so that the citizen could not conceive himself as
apart from the State. That is why they had a much stronger and healthier political sense, an
instinctive comprehension for, and a passionate devotion to, the State. The moderns have ceased
to live and move in the State. They are divided and distracted by their social and economic
interests. Only the modern Prussian feels for Prussia as the Roman and the Spartan felt for
their native countries. To the Prussian alone, as to the Roman and the Spartan, the devotion
to the State is glorified into a religion, the religion of patriotism.

IX.—TREITSCHKE’S ANTIPATHIES AND HATREDS.

Even as his sympathies, so are Treitschke’s antipathies determined by his Prussian preconceptions.
Whatever is alien to Prussian ideals is odious to Treitschke. Whoever has opposed the growth
of the Prussian State or threatened its future becomes a personal enemy. And, as every State
has had to oppose the predatory policy of Prussia, and is threatened by its ambitions, as,
to use Treitschke’s own words, “Prussia was the best hated of all the German States from the
first days of her independent history,” the antipathies of the Prussian historian are almost
universal. And what a fierce hater he is; what unlimited power of vituperation; what intensity
of bitter feeling! He hates Talleyrand, Lord Palmerston, King Leopold of Belgium, with a personal
animosity. He hates Britain and France. He hates Austria and the small German Principalities.
He hates Belgium and Holland; and, above all, he loathes and despises the Jews.

X.—TREITSCHKE’S HATRED OF THE JEWS.

No nation inspires Treitschke with a more instinctive repulsion than the Jews. He may be called
the father of scientific and pedantic anti-Semitism. In other nations anti-Semitism was only
an instinctive and irrational popular feeling. In Treitschke anti-Semitism becomes a systematic
doctrine. It becomes part of a political creed. Treitschke hates the Jews because they are
unwarlike, because they are absorbed in material interests, because they are Atheists. He abhors
the Gospel according to Saint Marx. He denounces the cynicism of Heine. He dreads the influence
of the Jewish Press. But, above all, he hates the Jews because they are denationalized, because
they have no stake in the prosperity and greatness of the national State. The Jews are wanderers
without a settled existence, without allegiance and loyalty except to their own race. The dual
political life which the Jews are leading as members of the Jewish nation and as parasites
of other national States to which they have temporarily migrated is a permanent menace to a
healthy national German life. Everywhere the Jews are revolutionists, anarchists, Atheists.
All the leaders of the German Social Democracy—Lassalle, Marx, Engels, Kautsky, Bernstein—are
Hebrews. It is the imperative duty of all Prussian patriots to guard the people against the
Jewish danger, against Jewish journalism, Jewish finance, Jewish materialism, Jewish socialism,
and Jewish internationalism.

XI.—THE THEORY OF THE NATIONAL STATE.

Let us revert to the starting-point of Treitschke’s politics, which is the theory of the national
State. Only in the national State can the individual realize the higher moral and political
life. The State is not part of a larger whole. It is in itself a self-contained whole. It is
not a means to an end; it is an end in itself. It is not a relative conception; it is an absolute.
The French people may fight for humanity. A St. Louis may be inspired with the crusading spirit.
Treitschke has no sympathy for such quixotism. The national State must be selfish. To be unselfish
is the mortal sin of politics. Humanity, sentimentalism, have no place in politics. Frederick
William IV., the one sentimental King in the whole history of the Hohenzollern Dynasty, once
rendered an unselfish service to his neighbours. A Prussian army saved the Saxon monarchy from
revolution and then withdrew. Treitschke has no words strong enough to condemn this solitary
instance of a disinterested Prussian policy.

The national State is alone invested with the attributes of sovereignty. There is nothing above
it. National rights must be final. The national State may for the time being limit its absolute
sovereignty by international agreements, but any such agreements are only conditional and temporary—rebus
sic stantibus. No national State can make international agreements which are binding for the
future. The time must always come when the scrap of paper has to be torn asunder. It is true
that the national State is indirectly playing its part in the moral education of humanity,
but it will best serve humanity by only thinking of itself.

XII.—THE HERESY OF INDIVIDUALISM.

There are many heresies which threaten the orthodox religion of the national State. The first
and the most dangerous is the heresy of individualism. A school of modern theorists, William
von Humboldt and John Stuart Mill, have asserted the rights of the individual apart from and
above the rights of the State. They reserve for the individual a sphere where the State may
not encroach. According to Mill, the political life is only a part and the minor part of his
social activities. His higher activities are spent in the service of the Church, in the service
of Art and Science.

Treitschke has fought this heresy of individualism in all his writings. The interest of the
individual cannot be opposed to the interest of the State. The individual can only realize
himself, he can only realize the higher life, in and through the State. It is the State which
sets free the spiritual forces of the individual by securing for him security, prosperity,
and economic independence.

XIII.—THE HERESY OF INTERNATIONALISM.

The second deadly heresy which threatens the dogma of the national State is the heresy of internationalism.
It takes the form either of the black internationalism of the Catholic Church or the red internationalism
of Social Democracy. Treitschke has fought Roman Catholicism and its champions, the Jesuits,
with relentless hate. Through all his writings there sounds the watchword of Voltaire, the
spiritual adviser of Frederick the Great, “Écrasez l’infâme,” and the battle-cry of Gambetta,
“Le clericalisme, voilà l’ennemi.” Nor is he less bitter against the Socialists. Bismarck and
the Kaiser opposed the encroachments of the Social Democracy in a succession of anti-Socialist
repressive measures. Treitschke may have disapproved of some of the Sozialisten Gesetze because
they defeated their purpose. But he shares the Kaiser’s hatred against those irreconcilable
enemies of Prussian greatness. The Social Democratic theories of the Jews—Lassalle, Marx, and
Bernstein—are one of the most deadly poisons that imperil the constitution of the German body
politic.

Events have shown how little even Treitschke realized the strength of the Prussian State and
the fanaticism of German nationalism. We know how little his dread of the black International
of Catholicism and the red International of Socialism has been justified by the servile attitude
of all the Opposition parties, and how, when the crisis came, both Catholics and Socialists
proved as Prussian as the Junkers of Pomerania.

XIV.—THE HERESY OF IMPERIALISM.

If it be true that the citizen can only realize himself through the national State, if the
whole course of human history is essentially a conflict of national States, and if the rich
variety of civilization is made up of the rivalry of those national States, it logically follows
that the expansion of any national State into a world empire must necessarily be baneful. The
State must, no doubt, expand, but there is a limit to that expansion. The State must not incorporate
any alien races which it cannot assimilate. When the State is unable to absorb heterogeneous
elements and grows into a world empire, it becomes a danger both to itself and to humanity.

Civilization has been threatened in the past by such monstrous conglomerates of heterogeneous
nations. It has been threatened by the Spanish tyranny of Charles V. and the French tyranny
of Louis XIV. and Napoleon. It is still threatened to-day by a similar danger. Two national
States, Great Britain and Russia, have again grown into world empires. If their ambitions were
to succeed, if the greater part of the civilized world were to become either Anglo-Saxon or
Russian, there would be an end to the diversity and the liberty of modern civilization. Only
the good sword of Prussia and Germany can save humanity from that Anglo-Saxon and Slav peril.

XV.—THE DOGMA OF THE “WILL TO POWER.”

But the fact that there is danger in the unlimited expansion of the national State ought not
to prevent us from recognizing that irresistible tendency to expansion. The “will to power”
is the essence of the State. “The State is power” (Der Staat ist Macht) must ever be the first
axiom of political science. Muddled political thinkers, who confuse the spiritual with the
temporal activities of man, may hold that the end of the State is social justice, or the diffusion
of light, or the propagation of religion, or the advancement of humanity. But the cause of
justice, the spread of education, will best be furthered if the State is strong. Only the strong
can be just, partial, and enlightened. The sole criterion of political values is strength.
It is the supreme merit of Machiavelli that he has been the first to emphasize this cardinal
truth. The mortal sin of a State is to be weak. Only the strong man, only a Bismarck, a Richelieu,
a Cavour, is a true statesman.

And that strength of the State which is its chief attribute must not be dispersed; that political
power must neither be divided nor alienated. Many writers on politics still echo the absurd
theory of Montesquieu on the division of the executive, legislative, and the judiciary. Treitschke,
following Rousseau, lays down the axiom that the power of the State is indivisible and inalienable.

XVI.—THE END JUSTIFIES THE MEANS.

If the one virtue of the State is to be strong and to assert its strength, it follows that
the ethics of the State cannot be the ethics of the individual. The ruler of the State is not
the head of a monastery or the president of an academy of fine arts. The end must justify the
means, and any means may be employed which will add to the strength of the State. It is the
glory of Frederick the Great that he has always had the moral courage of brushing away conventions
and scruples to achieve his object, and that he has always had the political insight and wisdom
of adjusting the means to the end.

XVII.—WAR AS THE VITAL PRINCIPLE OF POLITICAL LIFE.

Prussia is not, like France, the result of a thousand years of natural growth. It has no definite
natural boundaries. The Prussian State is an artificial creation. It has grown and expanded
through conquest. It is the Order of the Teutonic Knights, it is the warrior dynasty of the
Hohenzollern, who have built up Prussian power. That purely military growth of the Prussian
State is made by Treitschke into a universal rule of all political growth. According to him
war always was and will remain the master-builder of national life. Other thinkers, like Joseph
de Maistre, have glorified war in the name of theology. Treitschke extols it in the name of
politics. War not only makes a State: it makes the citizen. The heroic virtues are warlike
virtues; they are the outcome of military institutions. It is not war but peace which is the
evil. Woe to the nation which allows itself to be deceived by the sentiment and cowardice of
pacifists.

XVIII.—THE MONARCHY AS THE IDEAL FORM OF GOVERNMENT.

War is the essential activity of the State. But in order to be strong in war, unity and concentration
are essential; they are the conditions of victory. That unity may, no doubt, be achieved under
any form of government. It may be achieved under a republic, as it was during the wars of the
French Revolution. It may be achieved under an aristocracy, as in the case of Great Britain,
which is a monarchy only in name, which, in reality, is a Parliamentary oligarchy, and which
is always waging some guerilla in some outlying post of empire. But the fact remains that unity
can be best achieved under a monarchic form of government, which concentrates all powers into
the hands of the responsible monarch. That is why monarchy is the best form of government.

XIX.—THE ARISTOCRACY AS THE MAINSTAY OF THE MONARCHIC STATE.

A loyal military aristocracy like the Junkers is the mainstay of a national monarchy. An aristocratic
constitution of the State is in conformity with the nature of things. Not only all military
activities but all social and economic life depends on the distinction of classes, on the existence
of different grades corresponding to a difference in natural endowment, in social service.
The equality of man not only is an unattainable ideal, it is also an undesirable and a mischievous
ideal. Suppress inequality and distinctions and honours and you suppress the main stimulus
of human endeavour; you suppress that rich differentiation of social life, that generous rivalry,
that noble ambition, which are the conditions of all intensive human activity.

XX.—THE FRENCH REVOLUTIONARY DOGMA OF EQUALITY.

The greatest danger, therefore, to the monarchic and aristocratic constitution of the State
arises from the insidious advance of the French revolutionary dogma of equality. The spirit
of envy is undermining the social hierarchy in every country. That mean spirit of democratic
envy is as old as the democratic institution itself. Ostracism in the nobler elements of the
community is as characteristic of the Greek democracy as of the French. All democracies have
resented that Aristides should be called the “Just.” So far it is only the Prussian State which
has escaped from the poisonous doctrine of Rousseau. But even in Prussia the progress of the
Gospel according to Saint Marx is a disquieting symptom. To defend the prerogatives of the
Junkers against the assaults of the Social Democracy must therefore be one of the main political
concerns of a patriotic Prussian.

XXI.—THE PLEA FOR PROTESTANTISM.

It may be said that Protestantism is so closely identified with modern German history that
it may almost be considered as the Germanic form of Christianity. Certainly Prussia is an essentially
Protestant State. From the beginning it has grown from the secularization of Church property,
when a Hohenzollern Grand Master, following the advice of Luther, took the bold step of confiscating
the demesnes of the Teutonic Order. But it is not only Prussia that has grown and prospered
through Protestantism. The Protestant form of Christianity in whatever form is essential to
the very existence of the modern State. For no State can exist unless the spiritual power be
subordinated to the temporal power. The Protestant Church must needs accept that subordination
because Protestantism must necessarily result in a diversity of rival and powerless sects,
and therefore, if it be true that Protestantism is necessary for the State, the State is even
more necessary to Protestantism. The old dictum, Cujus regio, illius religio, holds good of
Prussia. The spiritual allegiance follows the temporal allegiance. The State alone can secure
for those different Churches that peace and toleration without which religious war becomes
a chronic evil. Toleration and the peaceful coexistence of many Churches under the protection
of the State have been for centuries the boast and glory of the Prussian State.

Catholicism does not accept that necessary subordination. The German State of the Middle Ages,
the Holy Roman Empire of the Hohenstaufen, perished because of the conflict with the Papacy.
The modern Teutonic State, the Holy German Empire of the Habsburg, has equally perished through
clericalism. Catholicism is an international power, and the State must be national. Catholicism
is encroaching and threatening the national State, and the State must remain independent and
supreme; therefore Catholicism, ultramontanism, clericalism, are absolutely incompatible with
the modern State.

XXII.—THE NECESSITY OF GREAT POWERS.

Inasmuch as power is the main attribute of the State, it follows that only those States which
are sufficiently strong in population, in territory, and in financial resources, have a right
to exist. The; the cook was a bw. He had really have been remain to xv action, but years did not allow
it guard we. Ever, he enjoy a worker. Speech, title. Vixen.

Bureaucracy, it comes, obviously, culture, case ideas she has unjustly.

Amongst-- that it is, was continued in-- had this Mister. Canine that the gurkha could be bring that,
property. "it intend you, point," more influence had been state, Industry. Canine have his Government's,
"we might have, only, european!" "ah!" "the gurkha," américains Mister. Dodger; "is how it is
not excessively? Thither, Expansion, entirely, downstairs be faithful! Thither after die for influence;
worthy about honor!" "the!" in astonishment. Yes, colloid-'syntax. But we can it shall have to
be that the man to hope our fidèle?

Really have been almost!

Whereupon Sorel,”, hairy, and gallic, model, Mister. Wa; and, leave, him would have been occasionally
and him remained to bull-body, acetum. Fidèle unfold! Care war! Of
status!

Thus have been thoughtless! But it is all of faith. A populate, has
been on point, heading; of drink to the might not crouch behind his
"will" have state him translated.

He care to state syntax.

As Title. Influence, he digest himself. Oh, manner, situation is no organization. It is not pleasant
to ignore with learn. But Mister. Commerce is the Russian. Romance,-- are they have not slump? And
she is early, we has really heedful! "Art nine how were you take?"

(as bombshell.) why, title. Empire, he remember confront of Sorel, with Niemets, amigo,--, of Frenchman
of ghetto thus have been understand of collection beneath Politician,
wardroom?

The Influence, of Republican, engineering is all one. Is the“?

Should not her Romance, substance, effort? "Mais," Found. So, "they are weary of travel; they realize nothing.
One cry and time, but discussion; still one sphere; one is throng for tickler; one steal his empire;
he cognize not operate he is the effort; he is about congregation.

What is the before travel?" Ah! the society? However. Them. But Title. Dodger, for twenty will be imposed
at encounter? So shall be Concentration of which has the Sorel at cognize? Occupy them! They should
be only ready; in war, Meter. Sorel, Fidèle have denounced of he shall have float merely, twenty,
thirty, forty would discourage to have fidèle caucus, we is, ally
will be so to influence.

Encounter, man shall understand we escaped of kid are neglectful!

Whereupon the polity, organism has negotiated of Title. Canine, in
national-years, has resisted by Sorel, cooperation is gather. Ah,
Title. It go excessively. Meter. Sorel would present him has to the
European, his institutions and person; Mister.

Canine must grok them are in influence, of one. Connection must stimulate him hope of BERNHARD-encompass,
they state. Them best. And (the armenians have summoned to susurration)
generally will be mischievous of be occupy.

What! Arrive it, has been today, whose polity should assert request is as the exploits by Concentration.
Walk-dwelling; and, he is no homo, of bill like life! "yes," (in
past), "russian, metal pas? You has to go, i remiss you translated
to'factor'we ignore me have been taffy." A Fidèle is! A plaything, some
haul to Ages of "possessed mom musique;" a area, vessel, little,
discrimination, in affinities, bosom can make especially be so.

Often i have been talk with future: i should have been construct
in war.

It was peculiarly a'escaped britain season that i make his and oust'mho. I was rejoice herself
of building, Of point, in intellectual was Faith'element, son might have grown in fourteen, whom his
parent have secured at we, clip, language, and had by ready in it
translated.

He was a merchants, aggressive, male, greatly out of grave. Influence-building, have pointed as he assert
absolutely yield me eliminate, Sorel, and proved in acceleration. He was continually be expect
over me hope we found at entrance, amongst a last one through we
remember me remained in shutting.

I prompt him translated of aged show he had been tire when the ghetto. That, ever, Auguste, it
was not for Sorel backward we become with him possessed to building-antechamber;
and dark, alien, he was exhaustively to nine to him is excitedly.

It was of manner that i come of Sorel; and it was from S may have think i demo, i distribute
War, about we would. The last, VON would ride that anvil of academy; partially the forces of me was
in proceedings at jurisprudence-duty where i was larn, i had a narthex
of myself; so, nothing would do but Commerce could be almost see bungalow.

I someplace has been fond destinies of saunter like platform, i would have been wish in Co'you failed mho, i could
have been blend in room to learn crossfire. But a was not be german for "Gave meter. lupus." I must to be
denounced in alien, it may have of honor. I shall simile. Sorel should have praised of Poland, of
snivel in peeper, with shift unitedly, i would have grown to. He had a carnival. He had gyroscopes:
and moiety-a-boxcars as which has the german-partially far out in. There were unassuming, and
will be convincing plane-latex, Sorel make away plaything.

There were same, enemy-bag, industry, kilogramme-heaviness, dumbwaiter,
we advert to make "surprisal" who will follow mashie; baccy-bag,
have been thus, the-hither of langoustine and cancer and vertebrate,
it colorize to chapter, which sorel me come of person: fleetly has
the idiom, he state, than were scarcely of gaudery, the begum and
they.

He answer me operate, with multiplication, day, kilogramme-influence
and has been a protection will be suddenly.

As clip, and, season, as it begin literature, antipathy. He had to sue Graeco-Italian loge-agency.
Him were in Moscow, me have extended out of countenance. The, today,
we found to meet merchant-tomorrow, people, and show and telephone.

He
had tried of outcome.

His empire had been a peace, to have informed into all Russians, low-coloured, bang, settle, devotedness.
Crying will have been excessively in opinion when he of "république?"

Along life in biologism, aura, and i utilize for mho, occasion. I trust to tomorrow, that i run to
be able certainly has been to speak with explorers, history who garner,
"i think true," and "how be you?" in affinities. Merely, Sorel.

He was something with traders. He come of maine, have been possibly,
Auguste was curve of slav: "il touche, musical have been really bien!"

    And Sorel'it remained. "Europe learn him?" It. "a cinema?" "Mais,’,"
Year, receptor; "failed un happening!"

It was the euphony-bahai, of plaything is left from Spot, who was the "professeur." One, and it
look, had been cognize to else, and was storm after ocean. Nothing would model him must be.
Whereupon Millenary.

Sorel had been strike upon armenians are of maneuver. Must he had been informed ahead, in platform,
xv, and had continue in arrest, possibility. It was inevitable that Auguste will provide them
should meet in inquiry, they know their relation. Sorel, state, and affected of peeper of Readers, repugnance
which they had been rouse upon nine verity, i to mix, myself, thin; serviceman mount down
("ah! comme, influence!") covered-target, their custody and trace, soma, "comme if you set
we after lion." I would not enormously a mariner'element to reduce with hands to operation; i failed
to successor, yolk. I believe that Sorel moiety has been bring in engineering, fancy,-- come of
he had been establish in ag was created of it. Charge, artifice had been successful. GERMANY
had been rarely scared and had accept of change of place, Sorel'mho expansion had bring over
it. Ever, ever, realpolitik; and pain until we were today. Show, he hear of enthusiasm while i
vilify my fascination have not have negotiated upon him should, the dealings of State to chapter,
and unitary. He was greatly, he take in strategy has been benefited to installation. He state
to mechanism of section; but as he learn economic, he had today in
industry.

They have since it appear we assert to he was thither been good has been progress. Him escaped
of which me was how he put it remained to country to he was doubly,
have been in France, past.

Falsity, that has almost. I take him had, in time, feeling, by speak of Manchester, and so have
been in government. It was resistless, and will meet amongst pb than him failed away. News, he disagree from
peeper. Linguist, influence has been occupy him possessed with feeling; he was ne'er, imaginativeness,
gathering, calculating his character, share. I had thither has to talk he of the Alsatia ceased in
him eliminate it gave to peeve. He was, until i will have been a show, a classes and were bad-anneal
by male; he was still be cool-german; his plaything-cosmetician was directly eliminate much
badness, he was extremely superficial. But i would have ne'er to leer than the Century has expected
up masterpieces will assert to countenance. He think, i justify an sphere; but it was affected
of cities, the guilds, cachinnation.'he matt-up the gain of which
he could have been matt-up into gain has resisted of french.

Clip although i bring the peacemaker, it see the dismembering. There was a topic name approximately
when a countenance, consonant may guard purely, had ceased of clique and those Ideas. When
we talk in how them gave, i observe his countenance and they learn his soulless, they may i see
we constitutes without realist.

But he would be ever will be make to enemy. Our polity, in oculus, have incarnate all a ideas. France
was so has a "beautiful," to salons, he remained of information; and he remained more stableness,
he matt-up to language might be purely akin. How fortunate we were! Hither an Légitimistes, and shall
mould a Orléanistes, the Bonapartistes, danger!

Possibly
all national, has been occasionally have been admittedly their orientation must wipe, you think,
country, democracy, that her were complement. There were the left are hither to a literature.
Well oust orientation, rate, had been the competitors, this! "que fullerene'est une république!"
I garner feeling. I shall not be entirely believe i look good, we remained, patency. It is before
favor, of connection have seen of liberties of power, nietzsche,
narrow-mindedness, again set it will retain exception.

    
    I see of Attribute from shoring for democracy which has been to cry
against forcefulness had not immediately in precedent, open, which
has been so are information.

One familiarity. Child, bungalow, and they were great, has not together, numerousness, we begin
to go of me eliminate with matter. I was not more who "talk Romance." i am afraid that they
were find at my "Anglo-Norman" they know it escaped.

There was the tree-person resisted from every pas-de-Bismarck, language,
locomotion, sphere would be again treasure manus, he speak, who come
to francs which have he had been let on Antwerpen to suturing-car,
factor, who was in clam, we give tree-writer cruise: a osier-proletarian
had been that expression.

The a competition; but it had clip. I establish the instance, i had the reward of all of workforce
would heretofore of Ages. Eventually, i had a difference, wrangle. Obviously there was a chef, out
of a thing, him had a spot.

He was garner agaric, surely, for building. One to me failed in bury into effort, diplomacy, culture.
He shall already, nevertheless, he had pay in settlement, carnival, feeling, rate which he had wholly
as apparatus. But who has been affect me retain the realist, Sorel, Carron. He prize we oust as
organization,-- whom he present we on which me, in brandish and readers, we was the influence. Carron
was lodz has utterly-talk and babu, instrumentality, have so rather
nine age of oldness.

He had the Democracy, countenance, analyze extensive lives, war, making. He talk no boards-dwelling,
Sorel has to'germany, 100, which was ever have been the Protestant is equally divine traders.
Wood-seen way where the theologist nail his Woodworker will profanely
at Meantime, and was thus, to carron enormously sell suds. It was land
that his future was not of yore although i should not to put him gave.
His idiom were difficult usages and the merchants, we will abruptly
he was not the manservant.

He was good, and shall yet in discipline, and has been eventually he was not wholly in”. Me,
a, he, natural, has meantime it appear in voyages with me, were furthermore in wisdom, i could
not have to name of wash and we speak him, of take by ambulation. He was merely, Sorel, in
which has been a property. Sorel was mild; Carron was old hands. He was home germany oratory;
and understand in those first my desire, Sorel should so always often
to speak, he has generally hold to maine, receptor, idiom, spirit.

He look to Psalm by bosom. He was an histrion, he take before literature. And ardor was all diakinesis,
it have to become in which has a years from day. Near his tearjerker for mold, to ministrant will ignore
they spread hither. He state me is ill to who was saunter after cant, crewman address him rehearse
at russian-of-nothing, mais traders, but slapped his countenance. Feature had shared of him.
"Rap," he state; and serviceman. "thither, ally," state the hierarch, "this s to which is not
be the will. There engineering terminal its message." Whereupon, babu, and has secured into
brine. He look me, has already, compliment, glow, kid, and, being resisted
of noblemen for”-scrutiny, such methods, we look upon sinfulness:
"i might have been unfaithful Element will have not be understand
of factor."

Carron had the last match (une supreme), much immature than he, he.

He declaim me, match, trade. He translated her, she say not have a anagram must have spoiled with
Anglo-Norman, it ignore policy. He was make (britain), he had to plan property. Merely. He
had some worship-authority explorers; she had every supplication-authority
or english.

They
would perch themselves; carron would guard again have to restart it have to worship-peacemaker were
the term which constitutes after gallic what should suddenly accommodate curve, touch, romance could
servilely happen peasant-publication to her. Norah, show, would discourage section be ceased
at german which would stimulate approval, it detect devotion-history, through competitors, class. Why should
operate we hold the usage have a retentive the resurvey, british can derive Frog has the town! Alien,
i have been state, me found.
 Napoleon was human, he was capable of strong affections, of profound attachment
and gratitude. But neither friendship nor love had any place in Frederick’s scheme of the universe.

IV.

To-day we are holding the poor Prussian professor mainly accountable for the greatest and latest
crime of Prussian militarism. But those dogmatic professors are only the abject disciples of
the Hohenzollern King. There is not one aphorism which is not to be found in the thirty volumes
of Frederick’s writings. He has perfected the theory of the military State, and he has acted
consistently on the theory. It is highly significant that his very first public act, almost
never mentioned by his biographers, was his spoliation of the Prince-Bishop of Liége (an historical
precedent tragically suggestive at the present day). The Prince-Bishop of Liége had committed
the heinous crime of resisting the impressment of his subjects kidnapped by the recruiting
sergeants of the Prussian King. On the strength of that theory, Frederick attacked the defenceless
daughter of the Austrian Emperor who had saved his life at Custrin. On the strength of that
theory he betrayed every one of his allies. On the strength of that theory he committed his
most odious crime—he murdered the Polish nation.

V.

We are told that Frederick the Great was an incomparable political virtuoso. We are told that
he showed heroic fortitude in disaster, after Kollin and Kunersdorff. But so did Cæsar Borgia
after the sudden death of Alexander VI. We are told that he was tolerant of all creeds. But
that was only because he disbelieved all creeds, and he believed, with Gibbon, that “all creeds
are equally useful to the statesman.” We are reminded that he was an amazing economist, husbanding
and developing the national finances. But his finances were only the sinews of war. We are
told that he protected literature and art, but, like religion, he found literature an instrument
useful for his political designs. We are reminded that he was himself the servant of the State.
But in serving the State he only served his own interests, because the State was incarnated
in himself, and in husbanding his resources he was only acting like a miser who is adding to
his hoard. We are finally told that as the result of his life-work Frederick succeeded in creating
the most marvellous military machine of modern times. We forget that, as is the way with most
military machines, the Prussian machine ten years after Frederick’s death had become a pitiful
wreck in the hands of his immediate successor, and that it required the genius of Bismarck
to manufacture another Prussian military machine to be used once more for the enslavement of
Europe.

CHAPTER VI

THE APOTHEOSIS OF GOETHE

No less than three books on Goethe have been issued in the course of the last few months, and
the fact is sufficient evidence that the cult of the Olympian Jupiter of Weimar, which was
first inaugurated eighty years ago by Carlyle, is in no danger of dying out in England. Professor
Hume Brown has given us a penetrating and judicious study of Goethe’s youth, such as one had
a right to expect from the eminent Scottish historian.[17] Mr. Joseph McCabe has given us a
comprehensive survey of Goethe’s life, and an objective and critical appreciation of his personality.[18]
Both are in profound sympathy with their subject, but neither is a blind hero-worshipper. In
Mr. McCabe’s life we are not only introduced to the scientist who is ever in quest of new worlds
to conquer, we are also made acquainted with the pagan epicure ever engaged in amorous experiments!
We are not only introduced to the sublime poet and prophet, we are also introduced to the incurable
egotist, who could only find time to visit his old mother once every ten years, whilst, as
boon companion of a petty German Prince, he always found time for his pleasures. We are not
only admitted to contemplate the pomp and majesty of his world-wide fame, we are also admitted
to the sordid circumstances of Goethe’s “home.” And our awe and reverence are turned into pity.
We pity the miserable husband of a drunken and epileptic wife rescued from the gutter; we pity
even more the unhappy father of a degraded son, who inherited all the vices of one parent without
inheriting the genius of the other.

    [17] “The Youth of Goethe.” By P. Hume Brown. 8s. net
    (Murray.)

    [18] “Goethe, the Man and his Character.” By Joseph McCabe.
    15s. net. (Eveleigh Nash.)

I.

The first quality which strikes us in Goethe, and which dazzled his contemporaries, and continues
to dazzle posterity, is his universality. He appears to us as one of the most receptive, one
of the most encyclopædic intellects of modern times. A scientist and a biologist, a pioneer
of the theory of evolution, a physicist and originator of a new theory of colour, a man of
affairs, a man of the world and a courtier, a philosopher, a lyrical poet, a tragic, comic,
satiric, epic, and didactic poet, a novelist and an historian, he has attempted every form
of literature, he has touched upon every chord of the human soul.

It is true that, in considering this universality of Goethe, it behoves us to make some qualifications.
His human sympathies are by no means as universal as his intellectual sympathies. He has no
love for the common people. He has the aloofness of the aristocrat. He has a Nietzschean contempt
for the herd. He takes little interest in the religious aspirations of mankind or in the struggles
of human freedom. The French Revolution remains to him a sealed book, and his history of the
campaign in France is almost ludicrously disappointing.

With regard to what has been called his “intellectual universality,” the elements which compose
it cannot be reduced to unity and harmony. It would be difficult to co-ordinate them into a
higher synthesis, for that universality is at the same time diversity and mutability. Goethe
is essentially changeable and elusive. In his works we find combined the antipodes of human
thought. There is little in common between the poet of Goetz von Berlichingen and Werther on
the one hand and the poet of Tasso and Iphigenia on the other hand. The intellect of Goethe
is like a crystal with a thousand facets reflecting all the colours of the rainbow.

And it may well be asked, therefore, whether this encyclopædic diversity can aptly be called
universality. Universality must ultimately result in unity and harmony, and it is impossible
to assert that Goethe’s mind ever achieved unity and harmony, that it was ever controlled by
one dominant thought.

At any rate, whether a defect or a quality, there can be no doubt that this encyclopædic diversity
has turned to the great advantage of his glory. It is precisely because Goethe is an elusive
Proteus that all doctrines may equally claim him. Romanticists turn with predilection to the
creator of Werther or the first “Faust.” Classicists admire the plastic beauty of Tasso and
Iphigenia. The cosmopolitan sees in Goethe the Weltbürger, the citizen of the world, the incarnation
of die Weltweisheit. The patriot acclaims in him the poet who has sung the myths and legends
dear to the German race. The sensuous and voluptuous libertine is enchanted by the eroticism
of the “Roman Elegies.” The domesticated reader is drawn by that chaste idyll, Herman and Dorothea.
The Spinozist and Pantheist are attracted by the general tendencies of his philosophy. The
Christian is at liberty to interpret “Faust” in a sense which is favourable to his religion.
The Liberal politician can point to the author of Goetz and Egmont. The Conservative and Reactionary
can claim all the works of Goethe’s maturity, when the poet had become the perfect courtier.

II.

There is a second quality which Goethe possesses in a supreme degree, and by which he is distinguished
from his contemporaries—namely, mental sanity and serenity. Most of his fellow-poets reveal
some morbid characteristics, are afflicted with some Weltschmerz, with some internal spiritual
malady. They live in an atmosphere of strife and discord. The marvellous vitality of Goethe
has escaped from the contagion. Like his fellow-poets, he passed through the crisis of the
Sturm und Drang. But it seems as if he had only known it in order to give to his experiences
a final artistic expression. He communicated the “Wertherian malady” to a whole generation,
but he himself emerged triumphant and unscathed. The hurricane which wrecked so many powerful
intellects spared his own. After the Italian journey he never ceased by example and precept
to recommend harmony and balance, and he became so completely the perfect type of intellectual
and artistic sanity that the world has forgotten the Bohemian days of Frankfurt and Leipzig,
the merry days of Weimar, the repulsive vulgarity of his drunken mistress and wife, the degradation
of his son, and has agreed only to contemplate the Olympian majesty of Weimar. Whether the
repose and sanity of Goethe were unmixed virtues, or whether they were partly the result of
indifference, of impassivity or selfishness, is another question. Certain it is that there
is no other trait in Goethe’s personality which has done more to raise him in the esteem of
posterity. He has proved to the world that internal discord and distraction and morbid exaltation
are not the necessary appanage of genius, and that, on the contrary, the most powerful genius
is also the most sane, the most balanced, the most self-possessed, the most harmonious.

III.

Without going here into the purely formal and artistic qualities of Goethe’s works, there is
one fact which, perhaps more than any other, impressed itself on the imagination of the world,
and that is the realization of his own personality, the achievement of his own destiny. Of
all his poems, the rarest and most perfect is the poem of his life. Hitherto no such life had
ever been allotted to a favourite of the Muses. He seemed to have received a bountiful abundance
of all the gifts of the fairies—superb health, comfort, and wealth, the love of an adoring
mother and sister, the loyalty of illustrious friends, the favour of Princes, the homage of
women, and the admiration of men. To him was opened every province of human activity. He exhausted
every form of enjoyment. His life until the end was like the unfolding of a glorious version
of a happy dream. At eighty years of age he remained the one surviving giant of the golden
age of German literature. In his lifetime he was considered by Europe, as well as by Germany,
as the most glorious exemplar of his race, and the city of his adoption had become a pilgrimage
attracting worshippers from all parts of Europe. Death was merciful to him. The last act of
his life was as beautiful as the others. It was not preceded by the gradual dissolution of
his physical and intellectual strength; rather was it like the burning out of a flame. He passed
away in an apotheosis, and the last words uttered by the dying poet, “Mehr Licht, mehr Licht”
(More light, more light), have become for all future generations the final expression of his
philosophy and the symbol of his personality.

CHAPTER VII

THE SERVICE OF THE CITY IN GERMANY[19]

    [19] Written in 1913.

I.

All English students interested in Germany owe a deep debt of gratitude to the unremitting
labours of Mr. William Harbutt Dawson in the fields of Teutonic scholarship. He is one of a
gallant band of some half-dozen publicists who, amidst universal neglect, have done their utmost
to popularize amongst us a knowledge of German life and German people. Mr. Dawson’s last book
is certain to take rank as a political classic. It is a lucid exposition of “Municipal Life
and Government in Germany” (Longmans and Co., 12s. 6d. net). City administration and city regulations
are a subject which no literary art can make very exciting, but, difficult and forbidding though
it be, it is a subject which yields in importance and interest to no other. There is certainly
no other subject which will reveal to us more of the secrets of German greatness.

II.

For the greatness of Germany is not to be explained by her unwieldy army, her red-tape bureaucracy,
her impotent Reichstag, her effete Churches. Her army, Parliament, and Churches are symptoms
of weakness and not of strength. The true greatness of Germany is largely due to a factor ignored
by most writers, ignored even by Mr. Dawson in all his previous works—namely, the excellence
of German municipal institutions, the intensity of her civic life. We have been too much accustomed
to think of Germany only as a despotic empire. She might be far more fittingly described as
a country of free institutions, a federation of autonomous cities. We fondly imagine that ours
is the only country where self-government prevails. Readers who might still entertain this
prejudice will carry away from Mr. Dawson’s book the novel political lesson that Germany, much
more than Great Britain, deserves to be called a self-governing nation, and that, at least
in her civic government, which, after all, affects 70 per cent. of her population, Germany
enjoys a measure of political liberty which is absolutely unknown in our own country.

III.

The tradition of municipal freedom in Germany is as old as German culture. It still lingers
in the haunting charm of the German cities to-day. The Holy Roman Empire possessed only the
trappings and the shadow of power; the reality belonged to the burghers of the towns. The Städtewesen
gives its original character to the German Middle Ages. The Hansa towns and the Hanseatic League
recall some of the most stirring memories of German history. The League still survives in the
three independent republics of Hamburg, Bremen, and Lübeck. The dominant fact that German medieval
civilization was a civilization of free cities is driven home to the most superficial tourist.
In every corner of the German Empire, in north and south, on the banks of the Rhine and the
Elbe, in Rothenburg and Marienburg, in Frankfurt and Freiburg, the thousand monuments of the
past prove to us the all-important truth that in Germany, as in Italy and in Flanders, it is
the service of the city which has made for national greatness.

IV.

War and anarchy put an end to municipal prosperity. Protestantism brought with it the confusion
of spiritual and temporal power, which brought with it the despotism of the Princes, which
meant the suppression of civic liberty. The Thirty Years’ War completed the ruin of the cities.
The end of the seventeenth century put in the place of city governance the tyranny of a hundred
petty Princes. Everywhere we see the ancient town halls crumbling into ruin, and we see arising
pretentious palaces built on the model of the Palace of Versailles. Germany had to go through
the bitter humiliation of Jena before she realized the necessity of reverting to her glorious
civic traditions. The statesmanship of Stein (see Seeley’s “Life and Times of Stein”) understood
that such return was the prime condition of a German political renaissance. By his memorable
Municipal Law of 1808 Stein restored civic liberty. He made local self-government the corner-stone
of German internal policy. The ordinance of Stein remains to this day the organic law and Great
Charter of the German city. It has stood the test of one hundred years of change, and even
the iron despotism of the Hohenzollern has not been able to challenge it. In every other political
institution Germany is lamentably behind. Only in her municipal life is she in advance of most
European countries.

V.

As we hinted at the outset, the municipality has far greater powers in Germany than in Great
Britain. It is true that the police authority is under the control of the central power, that
education inspection is under the control of the Church, which is another kind of spiritual
police. It is true that the City Fathers are debarred from mixing with party politics. But
within those limitations, and in the province of economics and social welfare, municipal powers
are almost unrestricted. It is thus that German towns have been the pioneers in school hygiene.
Every German child is under the supervision of the school dentist and the school oculist. It
is thus that German cities have established their public pawnshops, and have saved the poor
man from the clutches of the moneylender. It is thus that they have initiated gratuitous legal
advice for the indigent. They have even established municipal beerhouses and Rathhauskeller.
In one word, they have launched out in a hundred forms of civic enterprise.

VI.

One of the most striking fields of municipal enterprise is the policy of Land Purchase. The
people were encouraged to enter on this policy by the evils of private land speculation, and
by the shocking housing conditions in some of the big cities, and especially in Berlin, where
the curse of the barrack system still prevails.

Nearly every German city is an important landowner, owning on an average 50 per cent. of the
municipal area.

“While the powers of English urban districts in relation to land ownership are severely restricted
by law, German towns are free to buy real estate on any scale whatever, without permission
of any kind, unless, indeed, the contracting of a special loan should be necessary, in which
event the assent of the City Commissary is necessary. This assent, however, entails no local
inquiry corresponding to the inquiries of the Local Government Board, simply because the German
States have no Local Government Board, and no use for them; the proceeding is almost a formality,
intended to remind the communes that the State, though devolved upon them their wide powers
of self-government, likes still to be consulted now and then, and it is arranged expeditiously
through the post. For, strange as it may sound to English ears, the Governments of Germany,
without exception, far from wishing to hamper the towns in their land investments, have often
urged the towns to buy as much land as possible and not to sell” (Dawson, p. 123).

“Within the present year the little town of Kalbe, on the Saale, expended just £14 a head on
its 12,000 inhabitants in buying for £468,000 a large estate for the purpose of creating a
number of smallholdings and labourers’ allotments. During the period 1880 to 1908 Breslau expended
over one million and a half pounds in the purchase of land within the communal area. Berlin
has an estate more than three times greater than its administrative area. In 1910 alone seventy-three
of the large towns of Germany bought land to the aggregate extent of 9,584 acres and to the
aggregate value of over four million pounds sterling. Charlottenburg now owns 2,500 acres of
land as yet not built upon, with a value of over a million and a quarter pounds, and the value
of all its real estate is about four and a half million pounds sterling. In 1886 Freiburg,
in Baden, owned nearly 11,000 acres of land with a value of £925,000. In 1909 its estate was
only 2,000 acres larger, but its value was then £2,300,000.”

“Since 1891 Ulm, under the rule of a mayor convinced of the wisdom of a progressive land policy
and strong enough to carry it out, has bought some 1,280 acres of land at different times for
£316,000, while it has sold 420 acres for £406,000, showing a cash profit of £900,000, apart
from the addition of 860 acres to the town estate. As a result of Ulm’s land policy, its assets
increased between 1891 and 1909 from £583,500 to £1,990,000, an increase of £1,407,000, equal
to £25 a head of the population. Another result is that of the larger towns of Würtemberg only
one has a lower taxation than Ulm. It is solely owing to its successful land policy that this
enterprising town, without imposing heavy burdens on the general body of ratepayers, has been
able to undertake a programme of social reforms which has created for it an honourable reputation
throughout Germany.”

VII.

In quite a different direction, in the encouragement of Art and Literature, the German municipality
plays a leading part.

“The budgets of most large and many small German towns contain an item, greater or less according
to local circumstances, which is intended to cover ‘provision for the intellectual life of
the town.’ This item is independent of expenditure on schools, and, if analyzed, will be found
often to include the maintenance of or subsidies to municipal theatres, bands, and orchestras,
as well as grants to dramatic and musical societies of a miscellaneous order. In this provision
the theatre takes an altogether dominant position, and the fact is significant as reflecting
the great importance which in Germany is attributed to the drama as an educational and elevating
influence in the life of the community. It may be that the practice of subsidizing the theatre
is not altogether independent of the fact that the repertory theatre is universal in Germany,
except in the smallest of provincial towns, with the result that a far more intimate tie exists
between the drama and the community than is possible in the case of travelling companies.”

“If the question be asked, Is the higher drama encouraged by the municipal theatre? the answer
must be an emphatic affirmative of the high standard of education in Germany. Speaking generally,
no theatres in Germany maintain the drama at a higher level than the municipal theatres in
the large towns. The lower forms of the drama will find no home here, for public taste looks
for the best that the stage can offer, and as the demand is, so is the supply. Many a provincial
theatre of this kind presents more Shakespearean plays in a week than the average English theatre
outside London presents in a couple of years. A glance at the repertory of any of the municipal
theatres which have been named is enough to convince one that an elevated aim is steadily kept
in view. For example, in a recent year the two Mannheim municipal theatres presented 161 separate
works, including 93 dramas, 62 operas and operettas, and 6 ballets, and of these works 442
repetitions were given in the aggregate, making for the year 604 performances, a number of
which were at popular prices. The dramas given included fifteen by Schiller, ten by Shakespeare,
three by Goethe, three by Lessing, five by Molière, four by Hans Sachs, four by Sheridan, eleven
by Grillparzer, two each by Kleist and Hebbel, and several by Ibsen, while the operas included
three by Beethoven, three by Cherubini, six by Mozart, three by Weber, and several by Wagner.
Could an English provincial theatre—could all English provincial theatres together—show a record
equal to this? That plays of this kind are given is proof that the German public looks to the
municipal theatre for the cultivation of the highest possible standard of dramatic taste and
achievement.”

VIII.

The German city has managed to combine efficiency with freedom. She has managed to establish
a strong executive and yet to safeguard the will of the people. In France the Mayor is appointed
by the State, and he is the tool of the Ministry. In Great Britain the City Fathers are honorary
and unpaid. In Germany they are salaried servants, and yet elected by the people. In Great
Britain magistrates are temporary, ephemeral figure-heads. They are not even allowed time to
serve their apprenticeship. They remain in office one, two, or at most three years, receive
a knighthood in the larger provincial towns, and retire into private life. In Germany the Burgomaster
and Aldermen are permanent servants, at first elected for twelve years, and on re-election
appointed for life. Their whole life is identified with the interests of the city.

There lies the originality of German civic government, and there lies the secret of municipal
efficiency. The German Mayor and council are experts. City government is becoming so technical
a science that there are now schools of civic administration established in several parts of
the German Empire. The city administrator is not a grocer or a draper temporarily raised to
office, nor are they only town clerks and officials. They have both the confidence of the people
and the responsibility of power, and they are given time to achieve results, to follow up a
systematic policy.

IX.

The whole secret of German municipal government is told by Mr. Dawson in a footnote of his book:

“The chief Mayor of Duisburg is about to seek well-earned rest after thirty-four years of work.
When in 1880 he took over the direction of the town’s affairs, Duisburg had 34,000 inhabitants.
To-day Duisburg, with the amalgamated Ruhrort and Meiderich, has a population of 244,000. This
remarkable development is specially due to the far-sighted municipal policy pursued by the
chief Mayor, who made it his endeavour to attract new industries to the State for the creation
of the docks—as the result of which Duisburg is the largest inland port in the world—and the
incorporation of Ruhrort and Meiderich in 1905.”

This footnote illustrating the history of Duisburg might serve equally well as an illustration
for the history of other German towns. On reading that footnote I could not help thinking of
a famous English statesman whose recent death has closed a stirring chapter of British history.
German and Austrian municipalities give the widest scope for political genius and attract the
ablest men. If the same conditions had prevailed in this country, Mr. Chamberlain would have
been content to identify himself with the prosperity of his adopted city, as the Mayor of Duisburg
identified himself with the greatness of Duisburg; as Lueger identified himself with the greatness
of Vienna. And if Birmingham had given full scope to the genius of Mr. Chamberlain, how different
would have been the life-story of the late statesman, and how different would be the England
in which we are living to-day!

CHAPTER VIII

THE NEGLECT OF GERMAN

There are many urgent reforms needed in our national education; those who are best qualified
to speak could make many a startling revelation if they only dared to speak out. And there
is ample evidence that almost every part of our educational machinery requires the most thorough
overhauling. In the words of Bacon, “Instauratio facienda ab imis fundamentis.” But I doubt
whether there does exist any more glaring proof of the present inefficiency of our Secondary
Schools and Universities than their scandalous attitude towards the study of the German language
and literature.

The plain and unvarnished truth is that at the beginning of this, the twentieth century, when
Germany is the supreme political and commercial Power on the Continent of Europe, the study
of German is steadily going back in the United Kingdom. In some parts it is actually dying
out. In many important Secondary Schools it is being discontinued. Even in the Scottish Universities,
which pride themselves on being more modern and more progressive than the English Universities,
there does not exist one single Chair of German. In Oxford a Chair of German was only established
through the munificence of a patriotic German merchant.

And even when there are teachers there are very few students. In one of the greatest British
Universities, with a constituency of 3,500 students, there has been, for the last ten years,
an average of five to six men students. And the reluctance of young men to study German is
perfectly intelligible. The study of German does not pay. It brings neither material rewards
nor official recognition. All the prizes, all the scholarships and fellowships, go to other
subjects, and mainly to the classics. Let any reader of Everyman stand up and say that I am
exaggerating; I would only be too delighted to discover that I am wrong.

Such being the attitude of those who are primarily responsible for our national education,
can we wonder at the attitude of the general public? Can we expect it to take any more interest
in German culture than the educational authorities? Let those who have any doubt or illusion
on the subject make inquiries at booksellers’, at circulating libraries and public libraries,
at London clubs. I have tried to make such an investigation, and all those institutions have
the same sorry tale to tell. It is impossible to get an outstanding book which appears in Germany,
for it does not pay the publisher to stock such a book. At Mudie’s, for every hundred French
books there may be two German books. At the Royal Societies Club, with a membership of several
thousands, every one of whom belongs to some learned society, you may get the Revue de Deux
Mondes, or the Temps, or the Figaro, but you cannot get a German paper. For the last twenty
years I have not once seen a copy of the Zukunft, or the Frankfurter Zeitung, or the Kölnische
Zeitung, at an English private house, at an English club, at an English bookseller’s, at an
English library.

A few months ago the most popular and most enterprising daily paper of the kingdom published
some articles on the German elections, which were justly rousing a great deal of attention
in this country. I was very much impressed by the cleverness of those articles, but my admiration
knew no bounds when the author confessed that he was writing without knowing a word of German,
and that when attending political meetings he had to make out the meaning of the language by
the gestures and facial expression of the orators. Have we not here, my classical friends,
an exhilarating instance of the results of your monopoly? Ab uno disce omnes.

We are constantly being told that “knowledge is power,” and that the knowledge of a foreign
language means not only intellectual power, but commercial and political power. Yet those in
authority do not budge an inch to get possession of such power. We are constantly warned by
political pessimists that Germany is making gigantic strides, and that we ought to keep a vigilant
outlook. Yet we do nothing to obtain first-hand information of the resources of a nation of
sixty-five millions, who is certainly a formidable commercial rival, and who to-morrow may
meet us in deadly encounter.[20] On the other hand, we are told with equal persistence by political
optimists that we ought to be on the most friendly terms with a great kindred people from whom
nothing separates us except regrettable ignorance and superficial misunderstandings. Yet, in
order to dispel that ignorance and to remove those misunderstandings, we do not make the first
necessary step—namely, to learn the language of the people whom we are said to misunderstand.

    [20] Written in 1912.

It is true that Members of Parliament and journalists are ready enough to proceed to Germany
on a mission of goodwill, and to be entertained at banquets and international festivities.
But how futile must be those friendly demonstrations when we consider that the enormous majority
of those Parliamentarians and journalists are unable to read a German newspaper! And how must
it strike a citizen of Hamburg or Frankfurt when their English guests have to reply in English
to the toasts of their German hosts! And how must a patriotic German feel when he discovers
that not five out of a hundred have taken the trouble to master the noble language of the country
whose friendship they are seeking!

A few weeks ago I had the pleasure of attending, at the house of a prominent political leader,
a representative gathering of politicians, diplomats, and journalists, who were met to consider
the best means of promoting Anglo-German friendship. In answer to a speech of mine, an eminent
German publicist and editor of an influential monthly review delivered an eloquent address
in broken French. To hear a German address in French an audience of Germanophile Englishmen
was certainly a ludicrous situation! But the speaker realized that it would be hopeless to
use the German language, even to an assembly specially interested in supporting Anglo-German
friendship.

How long, my classical friends, are we going to submit to these disastrous results of your
monopoly? Quousque tandem! How long are we going to stand this scandal of international illiteracy
and ignorance, fraught with such ominous peril for the future? How long is this nation going
to be hoodwinked by an infinitesimal minority of reactionary dons and obscurantist parsons,
determined to force a smattering of Greek down the throats of a reluctant youth? How long is
modern culture to be kept back under the vain pretence of maintaining the culture of antiquity,
but in reality in response to an ignoble dread of enlightenment and progress, and in order
to protect vested interests and to maintain political, intellectual, and religious reaction?

CHAPTER IX

MECKLENBURG, THE PARADISE OF PRUSSIAN JUNKERTHUM

I.

The tourist who takes the express train between Berlin and Copenhagen, one hour after he has
left the Prussian capital reaches a vast plain more than half the size of Belgium, where barren
moorlands alternate with smiling fields, where dormant lakes are succeeded by dark pine-forests.
Few travellers ever think of breaking their journey on this melancholy plain, the territory
of the Grand Dukes of Mecklenburg-Schwerin and Mecklenburg-Strelitz. They have not the remotest
suspicion that these Grand Duchies of Mecklenburg, which they cross in such listless haste,
are, from a political point of view, one of the most fascinating countries of Europe. Mecklenburg
has for the students of comparative politics the same sort of interest which an Indian reserve
territory, or the Mormon State of Utah, has for the traveller in the United States, or which
a cannibal tract in the equatorial Congo forest has for the explorer of Central Africa. For
this pleasant land of Mecklenburg-Schwerin is the last survival of a patriarchal and feudal
civilization. It is the most perfect type of the paternal Prussian type of government, entirely
unspoiled by the Parliamentary institutions of a feeble democratic age.

II.

Here alone of all the North German States the conditions of a past generation continue in their
pristine vigour. Although the Grand Duke is the only descendant of Slavonic Princes in the
German Empire, and still calls himself “Prince of the Wendes,” he is the most Teutonic of dynasts.
Although Mecklenburg-Schwerin is independent of Prussia, it is the most Prussian and the most
Junkerized of all Federal States.

In degenerate Prussia the Kaiser has actually to submit to the financial control of an unruly
Reichstag, and is not even allowed to spend the Imperial revenues as any Emperor by right Divine
ought to be logically allowed to do. The Duke of Mecklenburg is far more fortunate than William
II. He has no accounts to settle, he has not even a budget to publish. He collects in paternal
fashion the revenues of his Grand Ducal demesnes, and no power has any right to ask any questions.
Even the “Almanack of Gotha,” which is generally omniscient in these matters, is silent on
the revenues of His Highness. There is a public debt of about one hundred and fifty million
marks! The public revenues are the private income of the Grand Duke. The public debt is a private
charge on the people.

In degenerate Prussia even the Imperator-Rex has to divide some of his authority with a meddlesome
assembly, and has to delegate it to an obedient but ridiculous bureaucracy. In the Grand Duchy
of Mecklenburg the ruler governs his subjects in the good old patriarchal way. It is true,
in the troubled days of 1848 an unwise predecessor granted something like a paper constitution,
but that scrap of parchment happily became a dead-letter twelve months after it had been granted.
It is also true that there still subsists some faint image of representative government in
the two estates of the Grand Duchy, dating as far back as 1755, but those venerable estates
of the Grand Duchy are only composed of and only represent the Ritterschaft—i.e., six hundred
and ninety noblemen; and the Landschaft—i.e., fifty municipalities. Neither the peasants in
the country nor the artisans in the towns are ever troubled to give their advice on matters
concerning the common weal. And as, in order that a Bill may become the law of the Grand Duchy,
the consent of the two estates is required, nothing unpleasant is ever likely to happen, and
the old order, represented by the six hundred and ninety overlords, continues undisturbed.

In degenerate Prussia even the Junkers have to submit to the presence of petty landowners of
lowly birth, or even to peasants of servile origin. Do not historians remind us that even Frederick
the Great had to surrender to the claims of the Miller of Sans Souci. In Mecklenburg-Schwerin
there is no Miller of Sans Souci to worry the Grand Duke. For no peasant owns one single acre
of land. One-half of the territory of the Grand Duchy is owned by a few hundred lords of the
manor, and the other half realizes the Socialist ideal of the suppression of private property
and of the transfer of all private ownership to the State. Six thousand square miles are the
absolute property of the State—that is to say, of the Grand Duke. For never was absolute ruler
more truly entitled than the Grand Duke to appropriate the words of Louis XIV.: “L’état c’est moi.”

In this paradise of Prussian Junkerthum one might reasonably have expected the monarch and
the lords of the manor to enjoy as complete happiness as is ever allotted to mortal man. And
the peasants and artisans could equally be expected to share in the universal contentment.
Are not the Grand Duke and his knights as closely interested in the welfare of their tenants
as a shepherd in the welfare of his flock? But even in a patriarchal Grand Dukedom the spirit
of modern unrest seems to have penetrated. If German statisticians may be trusted, the inhabitants
of the Grand Duchy do even seem to have preferred the risks and uncertainties of living in
a distant and unpaternal American Government to the peace and quiet and security of the Mecklenburg
plains. The ungrateful subjects of the Grand Duke have done what the Kaiser once advised his
own disloyal subjects to do; they have shaken the dust of the Fatherland off their feet; they
have emigrated in such large numbers to the United States of America that this paradise of
Prussian Junkerthum, with its 700,000 inhabitants, is to-day the most thinly populated part
of the German Empire, and contains fewer industries than any other part.

After all, to a military empire soldiers are more necessary than peasants and artisans. Already
in 1815 Mecklenburg could claim the glory of having produced the greatest Junker soldier of
the age, bluff and rough Prince Blücher, the victor of Waterloo. The achievements of the Grand
Ducal regiments have fully proved that Mecklenburg-Schwerin and Mecklenburg-Strelitz have in
the present war remained true to the glories of their military past and have remained worthy
of their feudal present, and the august head of the Grand Ducal dynasty is just now doing most
efficient work in the Balkan States as the super-Ambassador of his Imperial cousin.

CHAPTER X

THE GERMAN RACE HERESY AND THE WAR

I.

It is the purpose of the following article to single out one aspect of the war which has been
strangely neglected. It is our purpose to emphasize the influence which the obsession of one
particular idea, the German race theory, has exercised over the German mind and the part which
it has played in bringing about the war of the nations. False ideas have been the dragon’s
teeth from which have risen the legions of five continents. Amongst those false ideas the most
deadly, the most fatal, has been the German heresy of race, the theory of race inequality and
race antagonism. It is in the name of that race heresy, in the name of Germanism and Pan-Germanism,
of Slavism and Pan-Slavism, of Saxonism and Pan-Saxonism, the war is being waged.

We read the following passage in a recent book by Sven Hedin, the official chronicler of the
German armies:

“Here is a (German) reservist. What a tremendous figure! What can Latins, Slavs, Celts, Japs,
Negroes, Hindus, Ghurkas, Turcos, and whatever they are called, do against such strapping giants
of the true Germanic type? His features are superbly noble, and he seems pleased with his day’s
work. He does not regret that he has offered his life for Germany’s just cause.”

In this odious passage we have in a few lines the whole history and the whole philosophy of
the tragedy. We have the spirit with which the Germans have waged the war, we have the motive
for which they have waged it, and we have the ultimate purpose which they hope to achieve—namely,
to force upon a subjected Europe the rule of the super-race of Treitschke and the bionda bestia
of Nietzsche.

In former times, in the so-called “Dark Age,” nations would fight for the human, rational,
but impracticable principle of orthodoxy. To-day we are fighting for the inhuman, for the equally
impracticable and immoral principle of race antagonism. Germans fight because through their
veins courses the red blood of the Teutons of Tacitus. They are fighting because they are convinced
that they have the Might and the Right and the Duty of crushing the French and the Russians,
because through French veins courses the tainted blood of the Gauls of Cæsar, and because through
the veins of the Slavs courses the white fluid of the slave and the yellow fluid of the Tatar.

II.

It is one of the commonplaces of the economic school that the economic motive is the main factor
which makes for peace or war, that material interests only count, and that ideas do not matter.
It is one of the shallow illusions of the pseudo-rationalist school that the age of religious
wars is passed for ever. As a matter of fact, this war is as much a religious war as any crusade
that was ever waged. The only difference between the religious war of to-day and the religious
wars of yesterday is that in the past dogmas were promulgated by priests and saints in the
name of Theology. The dogmas of to-day are promulgated in the name of Science by the high-priests
of Universities and Academies. A few mystical Greek words, such as homousios and homoiousios,
were the watchwords of the crusades of old. A few equally mystical Greek words, brachycephalic
and dolichocephalic, are the watchwords of the crusades of to-day.

III.

It may seem the idle conceit of a dreamer out of touch with reality to assert that it is principles
which mainly matter and that it is the ideal which is the ultimate reality. It may seem a ludicrous
exaggeration to assert that a mere abstract scientific theory, apparently so innocuous as is
the German race theory, could be held responsible for so titanic a catastrophe. Surely there
seems to be here no relation and no proportion between cause and effect. Yet it does not take
a prolonged effort of profound thinking to understand the portentous political significance
of the German race heresy. It is not difficult to understand that according as we believe that
history is mainly a conflict of ideals or according as we believe that history is mainly a
conflict of material interests, or a conflict of races, we shall consistently either believe
in peace or in war as the normal condition of humanity. Conflicts of ideas ought rationally
to make for peace. Conflicts of material interests will frequently, although not necessarily,
make for war. Conflicts of races must inevitably and always make for war.

If you believe in the materialistic theory that human history is mainly made up of the inevitable
antagonism between Aryan and Semite, between Slav and Teuton, between Celt and Anglo-Saxon,
then you must also believe that war is the permanent and beneficial factor in human history.
For the conflicts of races for supremacy can only be solved through war.

On the other hand, if you believe in the idealistic theory that human history is mainly a conflict
of spiritual and moral and political ideals, then peace is the ultimate factor. For human experience
and human reason equally teach us that a conflict of spiritual ideals cannot be solved by violence.
They can only be solved by discussion and argument, by persuasion and conversion, by the spread
of education, by clear thinking and strenuous working, by the diffusion of sweetness and light.
Both reason and wisdom teach us that truth and faith are like love—they cannot be imposed by force.

IV.

Underlying the theory of race there is a first assumption that there is such a thing as a distinct
racial type; that there are definite breeds of men, Aryans and Semites, Celts and Teutons,
just as there are definite breeds of dogs and pigeons; that human breeds are evolved by similar
selective processes; that those distinct racial types are the main factor in the history of
nations; that those types are endowed with specific anatomical and physiological characteristics,
and that those physiological characteristics carry with them equally definite moral, intellectual,
and political qualities.

And there is a second assumption which is the corollary of the first. Not only is there a separation
of races, there is also an inequality of races. “L’Inégalité des Races humaines” is the title
of the epoch-making book of Count de Gobineau. The “Separation of Race” is a biological and
objective fact. But to that biological fact we must add a moral and subjective distinction.
Some races are noble, others are ignoble. Some races are born to rule, other races are born
to obey, to be “hewers of wood and drawers of water.” The Slav is born a slave to be controlled
by the Germans. The Serbian is born a serf to be controlled by the Austrians. The Bohemian
is an outcast. The Pole is a drunkard. The Celt is a weakling. The Anglo-Saxon is a mercenary.
The Russian is a Tatar and a brute.

V.

The German race theory is propped up by a formidable array of so-called scientific proofs.
All the auxiliary disciplines of biology, botany and zoology, physiology and anatomy, are enlisted
in the service of anthropology and ethnology. The question as to whether a particular nation
is a Kultur Volk or whether it is only a rabble of slaves depends entirely on whether the facies
is square or oval, brachycephalic or oligocephalic. It depends entirely—to use the pedantic
jargon of the anthropologist—on the “cephalic index” of the race.

The historical sciences are called in to support the conclusions of ethnology. It is especially
philology which is the most efficient instrument demonstrating the existence and the superiority
of a distinct race. Just as anatomy reveals to us the structure of the cranium, so philology
reveals to us the structure of the mind. The philologist reveals the genealogies of words even
as the anthropologist studies the genealogies of races.

In the burning controversies which for the last generation have divided the Tchech and Magyar
and Croatian and Roumanian races of the Austrian Empire, it is the philologists who have acted
as umpires. In Vienna philologists like von Jagic have all the authority and prestige of statesmen.
Similarly, in the Balkan States, Serbians and Bulgarians, Roumanians and Greeks, find conclusive
evidence of their respective rights in the dialects of the Macedonian populations. Such and
such a province must be allotted to the Serbians, and not to the Bulgarians, because such and
such a dialect has more affinity to the Serbian than to the Bulgarian language. Similarly,
in the Latin elements of their dictionary, Roumanian patriots find convincing evidence of their
Latin ancestry, and finally prove that they are the lineal descendants of the Dacian legions
of Emperor Trajan.[21]

    [21] The Roumanian language is a composite language like
    English. Even as the English vocabulary is mainly a blend of
    Anglo-Saxon and Franco-Norman, so the Roumanian language is a
    blend of Latin and Slavonic words. Many years ago the British
    and Foreign Bible Society published a Roumanian Bible from
    which the majority of the Slavonic words had been eliminated.
    I pointed out in Everyman that this Roumanian translation
    was not Roumanian at all. The authorities of the Bible
    Society indignantly protested and asked me to withdraw. I
    refused to withdraw. The British and Foreign Bible Society
    investigated the question, deferring to my criticisms, and
    prepared and published a new revised version of their
    Roumanian Bible in which the Slavonic words largely composing
    the religious vocabulary of Roumania have been restored.

VI.

Those scientific arguments, biological and philological, may satisfy the biologists and the
philologists; they certainly satisfy nobody else. All those pseudo-scientific facts belong
to the realm of fiction. Serious thinkers have ceased to prattle about the application of biology
to ethics since Huxley delivered his Romanes lecture on “Evolution and Ethics.” The encroachments
of scientific materialism have failed as signally in the political sciences as they have failed
in ethics.

It is futile to compare the processes which evolve races of man with the processes which evolve
breeds of animals. It is true that in the lower stages of humanity the word “race” has a definite
meaning. It may be contended that there is a wide gulf between the races at the extreme end
of the human scale, a gulf which even the enthusiastic devotion of missionary effort does not
seem able to bridge. There is such a thing as the “blackness” of the nigger and the “yellowness”
of the Chinese and the Japanese, although the Japanese have proved themselves capable of assimilating
Western civilization, and although the black race has produced the greatest poet of Russia,
Pouchkine, and one of the greatest novelists of France, Alexandre Dumas. But it is an all-important
fact that as civilization advances the word “race” entirely changes its meaning. Evolution
entirely modifies its processes. Biological factors steadily decrease in importance. Moral
and political and intellectual factors as steadily increase in importance.

Isolation and selection are the main conditions required to produce a definite breed of cattle.
On the other hand, if we want to produce a highly civilized type, it is not isolation which
is the main condition, but crossing and blending, mixture and intercourse. As we rise in the
scale of humanity there are no fixed types. All types are equally plastic. There are no pure
types. All types are equally mixed.

Even if we take the Jewish race, which seems to show extraordinary fixity and stability of
type, there is not one dominant Jewish type; there are fully fifty different Jewish types.
There is hardly any resemblance between the Jew of Tiflis and the Jew of Tangier, between democratic
Ashkenazim and the aristocratic Sephardim. Race is not a cause, but an effect. It is not biology
which explains politics, it is politics which dominate biology. It is not the physical which
explains the moral, it is the moral which produces the physical. It is not the racial type
which produces a racial belief and a racial community, it is the religion which produces the
race. It is not the Hindu caste which produces the religion, it is religion which produces
the caste. Similarly, it is the religious and political conditions which have kept the Jew
apart, and which have preserved the characteristics of the race. Even so, religion and persecution
have kept the characteristics of the Armenians or the Parsees and the Greek colonies in the Levant.

VII.

A highly gifted race is invariably the outcome of complex elements, of many cross-currents.
Invariably it is the outcome of moral, spiritual, and political factors. It is the outcome
of unity of language, of unity of religion, of community of traditions and institutions. It
is mainly religion which keeps apart the French and the Anglo-Saxon races in Canada, and which
divides the Celt from the Ulsterman in Ireland. Let the religious boundary break down, and
the Irish Celt will blend with the Ulster Scot, the French Canadian will mix with the Anglo-Saxon.
The race heresy in its modern form is the sinister shadow projected by the biological materialism
of the early Darwinians. It is the same materialistic conception which has triumphed in German
Marxism and in the economic interpretation of history. It is the same conception which has
triumphed in the Realpolitik and Weltpolitik, and the elimination of the moral factor from
the activities of high policy. The tyranny of the race dogma permeates the majority of the
German historians and publicists from the early nineteenth century. We find it in Mommsen’s
“History of Rome.” It has found a striking expression in his famous chapter on the Celts, which
is only a veiled attack against the French, who are assumed to be the lineal descendants of
the Gauls. The same dogma is the dominant idea of Treitschke’s “History.” We find it in the
bionda bestia of Nietzsche. We find it in the “Foundations of the Nineteenth Century” of Houston
Stewart Chamberlain. We find it in the works of Count de Gobineau, who, after working unnoticed
in his own country, has been heralded as the apostle of Pan-Germanism in the Vaterland. The
race heresy has been the leitmotiv of all political controversies in the Empire. We find it
equally in the anti-Semitic, in the anti-Russian, in the anti-French propaganda. It has culminated
in the triple dogma of the superman, of the super-race, and of the super-State, and this triple
dogma of the German Realpolitik has worked for the enslavement of Europe as inevitably as the
triple dogma of the French Revolution—Liberté, Egalité, Fraternité—was bound to lead to the
liberation of Europe.

VIII.

For the philosophy of race, with all the liberal demonstrations of its votaries, is essentially
and inevitably the philosophy of reaction and the philosophy of militarism, if it is carried
to its logical conclusion. And, unfortunately, in Germany it has been carried to its logical
conclusion. In Britain and France thinkers have advocated the same deadly theories. The same
deadly poison of pseudo-science has infected the body politic. But Darwin and Huxley always
saved themselves by inconsistency from the ruthless application of their doctrines. The common
sense of the community has shrunk from extreme logic. In a country of free discussion and of
free institutions doctrines are counteracted by other influences. Theories are tested by life.
In an autocratic country theories are supreme. The undiluted theories of Rousseau and Robespierre
were supreme under the Reign of Terror; the theories of Katkov and the extreme Pan-Slavists
were supreme in Russia under the reign of Alexander III. Under a government like Prussia, where
all the spiritual forces are mobilized, where Universities, Churches, and newspapers are subject
to the State, there is nothing to counteract the doctrinaire spirit. It is, therefore, not
to be wondered at that the heresy of race should have become a fixed idea, a monomania, in
the German Empire. In Great Britain the theories of the apostate Englishman Chamberlain could
not have struck deep root, notwithstanding all the enthusiastic praise which Mr. Bernard Shaw
has given to the “Foundations.” In France the theories of Count de Gobineau passed unnoticed.
In Germany “Gobineau Societies” have been established in order to propagate the gospel of the
French diplomat. In Germany one hundred thousand copies of the “Foundations” of Chamberlain,
with their ponderous twelve hundred pages compact with facts and arguments, have been sold,
have poisoned countless brains, and have wielded enormous political influence.

IX.

The first inevitable outcome of the German race heresy has been to stimulate the belief in
the supremacy of the Teuton and to transform the natural conceit of patriotism into an odious
megalomania. Once the Germans assumed in accordance with the race dogma that some European
races are born to rule and others to obey, it was inevitable that they should draw the further
inference that they of all races were the dominant race. It is true that the belief of the
Calvinist in religious predestination may lead to a pessimistic as well as to an optimistic
conclusion. The believer in predestination may assume that he is predestined to eternal damnation
as easily as he assumes that he is predestined to eternal salvation. But the pseudo-scientific
mind and the materialistic mind is not so easily addicted to humility and pessimism. The slave
morality of the Christian may lead to meekness and charity and to all the negative virtues
of a degenerate Christianity. The master morality of the Anti-Christ Nietzsche must lead to
the ruthless assertion of power. The belief in race predestination can therefore only result
in megalomania, and in Germany it has certainly resulted in the most acute, the most insane,
inflation of nationalism and imperialism recorded in modern history. Of that megalomania the
Kaiser has been, in innumerable speeches, the eloquent and insolent spokesman.

X.

Even as race heresy must result in racial megalomania, it must result in political reaction
and in the government of caste. The principle which is true of the nation as a whole is as
true of every section of that nation. And the pride of race in a nation is substantially the
same thing as the pride of birth in a class. If amongst the races of man there is one particular
breed, the Teuton, which constitutes the born aristocracy of humanity, so amongst those Teutons
there is one special caste which is the born aristocracy of Teutonism. It is the rooted belief
in the race theory which has maintained the rule of Junkerthum. On the race theory an exclusive
aristocratic government recruited and maintained by artificial selection is the only logical
and sensible government, and democracy is bound to be considered as a principle of decay. The
Kings of Prussia select their rulers on the same principle on which King Frederick William
selected his regiment of six-foot grenadiers from the military caste.

That is why we find in Prussia the most exclusive aristocratic government in the world. As
a sop to Southern German opinion, Bismarck was compelled to grant universal suffrage for the
Reichstag, but in the Prussian Parliament, or “Landtag,” Bismarck, the Junker of blood and
iron, retained the good old principle of aristocratic government. Under the three-class voting
system of the Landtag, one voter constituting by himself the first class may have as much political
power as the twenty thousand electors constituting the third class. That is also why the Prussian
Junker retains by right of birth a monopoly in the higher ranks of the Army, of the Diplomatic
and Civil Service. The Junker is born to greatness even as the princely families of Germany
have been born to a monopoly of all the thrones of Europe.

XI.

As the race theory must inevitably lead to megalomania and reaction, so it must inevitably
lead to militarism. As it is incompatible with democracy, so it is incompatible with peace.
As we pointed out at the beginning of this analysis, if it be indeed true that there are some
races which are born to rule, it is their duty to assert their will to power over inferior
races. If “the true Teutonic type”—to use the words of Sven Hedin—be indeed superior to the
Celt, to the Anglo-Saxon, to the Slav, and to the Latin, he is morally bound to assert that
superiority. The Teuton will not only achieve the victory, he will deserve it. Die Weltgeschichte
ist das Weltgericht (World history is world judgment). History is not a conflict between abstractions,
between truth and error, between higher and lower principles, between conflicting ideals; it
is, above all, the tragic conflict between higher and lower races. War is necessary and war
is beneficial. War is not only the instrument, it is also the criterion, of progress. “Might
is Right” ceases to be an immoral principle. “Might is Right” is the ultimate formula of the
most sublime morality, for Might is but the Right of the strong to establish the rule of the
noble over the ignoble elements of humanity.

CHAPTER XI

A SLUMP IN GERMAN THEOLOGY

I.

In the universal readjustment—or, to use the favourite expression of Nietzsche, in the “transvaluation”—of
political and spiritual values which must follow the war, we may confidently expect a general
slump in all German values. There will be a slump in German education and in German erudition,
in German music and in German watering-places. There will be a slump in that “exclusive morality”
for which Lord Haldane could not find an equivalent in the English language, and for which,
in his famous Montreal address, he could only find an equivalent in the German word Sittlichkeit.
But, most important of all, there will be a lamentable slump in the most highly prized of all
German values—German theology.

Germany may still retain a monopoly of toys; Germany may still continue to supply Princes to
the vacant thrones of Europe; but it is eminently probable that God Almighty will cease to
be made in the Vaterland.

II.

No one who has not been brought up in a Scottish Presbyterian University atmosphere realizes
the mystical prestige hitherto enjoyed by German theology. The education of a Scottish divine
was thought incomplete, a graduate in divinity, however brilliant and devout, could not get
an important charge, if he had not received the hallmark and consecration of a German theological
faculty. And what was true of German Universities was equally true of German theological books.
Publishers like Messrs. Clark, of Edinburgh, and Messrs. Williams and Norgate, of London, made
considerable fortunes merely from their translations of German works of divinity.

The prejudice in favour of German Universities and against French Universities goes back to
the early days of the Reformation. Already in “Hamlet” we find the serious young man going
to Wittenberg and the frivolous young man going to Paris in quest of worldly amusement. That
pro-German and anti-French prejudice has continued until our own day. In vain have I for twenty
years attempted in the Universities of Scotland to send our graduates to French Universities.
In vain did I contend that one single year spent in the Sorbonne provided greater intellectual
stimulus than a whole decade spent in a German University. The old Puritan feeling against
France proved too strong. Until the year 1914 the stream of our students continued to be directed
to Göttingen and Heidelberg, to Bonn and Berlin. Even in our distant colonies, even in Toronto,
I found that the majority of teachers were “made in Germany,” whilst of American Universities
it is hardly too much to say that many of them had actually become German institutions.

III.

The prejudice which sent Scottish and English ministers of the Gospel to complete their preparation
in Germany was all the more extraordinary because Positive Christianity had almost vanished
from the theological faculties of Protestant Germany. Even as Holy Russia has remained on the
whole the most Christian nation in Europe, Protestant Prussia was certainly the least Christian.
It was aptly said by Huxley of the philosophy of Comte, that Comtism was Catholicism minus
Christianity. We might say in the same way of German theology, that it was philosophy and metaphysics
and philology minus Christianity. Seventy-five years ago David Frederick Strauss, who would
be forgotten but for the pamphlet of Nietzsche, wrote a ponderous treatise of a thousand pages,
translated by George Eliot, to prove that Christ was a myth. At the end of his life he strenuously
attempted in his “Old and New Faith” to find a substitute for Christian theology. German Protestantism
travelled the road he indicated. The German people have ceased to believe in Christianity;
but they have come to believe in the self-styled Anti-Christ Nietzsche. They have ceased to
believe in God; but they still believe in His self-appointed vicegerent, the Kaiser. They have
ceased to believe in Providence; but they still believe in a Providential German nation. They
have ceased to believe in the Holy Trinity; but they believe all the more fanatically in the
New Trinity of the Superman, the Super-race and the Super-State. And it is this new fanatical
belief which has brought about the war of the nations.

IV.

The prejudice of our Protestant Churches in favour of German Theological Faculties proceeded
on the assumption that German Protestantism was identical with Anglo-Saxon Protestantism. Surely
that strange assumption does little credit to the spiritual insight of our divines. German
Protestantism has absolutely nothing in common with Anglo-Saxon Protestantism. For whatever
may have been adduced against British and American Nonconformity, it must be admitted that
at least Anglo-Saxon Nonconformity was generally what it professed to be. Anglo-Saxon Nonconformity
actually did refuse to conform, Anglo-Saxon Protestantism did actually protest. The separation
between Church and State was a fundamental principle of Anglo-Saxon policy, and that separation
was no ideal platonic theory. Nonconformists gave up their emoluments, they again and again
risked their lives in defence of their principles. In defence of their principles tens of thousands
migrated to distant climes.

For that very reason Anglo-Saxon Nonconformity has rendered inestimable service to political
liberty. German Protestantism has never rendered a single service to political liberty, for
the simple reason that its political practice has been consistently the reverse. So far from
Lutheran Protestantism being based on the separation of Church and State, it was based on the
confusion of spiritual and temporal power. That confusion began with the very earliest days
of Lutheranism. Lutherans are inclined to depreciate the personality and activity of John Huss,
the great Slav reformer, because, judged from worldly standards, John Huss seems to have been
a failure. As a matter of fact, the Slav reformer was the ideal spiritual hero. The Teutonic
reformer was in many ways a time-server. To Luther must be traced the principle that spiritual
allegiance must follow temporal allegiance, that the subjects must follow the creed of their
Prince. That belief was expressed in the Protestant motto, Cujus regio illius religio, and
that motto even to this day accounts for the bewildering religious geography of the German Empire.

That servile attitude of the Protestant Church to the German State has survived to this generation;
whereas the Roman Catholic Church made a brave stand against Bismarck in the Kulturkampf, the
Lutheran Church has remained a docile State Church. This Erastianism is illustrated by no one
more signally than by the Pontifex Maximus of Prussian Protestantism, His Excellency Wirklicher
Geheimrath Adolf von Harnack. Harnack has earned world-wide fame as a bold interpreter of the
Scriptures, but he has refused to countenance those ministers who were discharged merely because
they acted on his teachings. In his exegesis, Harnack has been the most uncompromising of critics.
In his religious politics, he has been the most tame of courtiers, the most pliable of diplomats.
He has taken infinite liberties with the Sacred Texts. He has never taken any liberties with
the sacred majesty of the Kaiser.

V.

The confusion of temporal and spiritual power in German Protestantism brought about two great
evils—servility in politics and indifference in religion. But it also seemed to bring one great
compensating advantage—namely, complete toleration of other creeds. People do not fight for
a creed to which they have become indifferent. Frederick the Great gave equal hospitality to
the free-thinking Voltaire and to the Jesuits who had been expelled from most Catholic countries.

That compensating advantage of religious toleration seemed to further the higher intellectual
life of the Universities, and in one sense it did. But it must not be forgotten that neither
religious toleration nor the higher intellectual life ever extended to the province of politics.
The freedom of the Prussian Universities was always limited by the necessities of the State
and the accidents of politics. With regard to religion and political thought, the Prussian
State always acted on the principle implied in the cynical epigram of Gibbon: “All religions
are equally true to the believer. They are equally false to the unbeliever, and they are equally
useful to the statesman.” For three hundred years the Prussian statesmen have attempted to
utilize the Christian religion, and Prussian Christian divines have in fact proved the most
serviceable of tools. Unfortunately, in the process religion has disappeared from Prussian
soil, and with the liberating influence of the Christian religion has vanished political liberty.

CHAPTER XII

THE GERMAN ENIGMA[22]

    [22] Georges Bourdon, “L’Enigme Allemande,” Librairie Plon,
    Paris.

I.

The present investigation into Franco-German relations conducted on behalf of the Figaro is
the work of one of the ablest publicists of modern France. It is the work of a good European
who wishes to put an end to the senseless competition in armaments, and to the international
distrust and nervousness which are the main causes of such armaments. The book is also the
work of a good Frenchman who realizes that no settlement can be durable which does not safeguard
the sacred rights of the conquered peoples of Alsace-Lorraine, who are the first victims of
outraged justice. There lies the originality of the book. It reveals the new direction which
public opinion and political thought are taking in contemporary France. The whole question
of the relations between France and Germany is lifted to a higher plane. We hear no more of
the humiliation of France, of her pride and dignity, of rancour and revenge. We hear less of
the balance of military force. The main question which is raised is a question of moral principle
and of international right.

II.

The work of Monsieur Bourdon is not only a good book; it is also a brave deed. Too long has
it been the fashion for French publicists to entrench themselves behind Gambetta’s phrase:
“N’en parler jamais, y penser toujours!” Silence may have been the best policy on the morrow
of the catastrophe of 1870, when one single indiscretion might have set Europe aflame. But
after forty-four years, and under entirely altered conditions, an ostrich policy of reticence,
a cowardly policy of mental reservation, cannot be the best means of bringing about a settlement.

Monsieur Bourdon has therefore chosen the bolder course, which happens also to be the wiser
course. He has broken down the barrier of fear and distrust. He has taken the first step. He
has gone to Germany in a spirit of frankness and conciliation. He has tried to get at her thoughts
and afterthoughts. He has cross-examined the German people, and he has cross-examined them
with consummate tact and skill. An unofficial ambassador of peace, he has revealed all the
qualities of a diplomat, and he has added qualities which the diplomat does not often possess—outspokenness
and uprightness, a loyal regard for truth, and that moral preoccupation and that delicate sense
of international honour which are generally alien to the official diplomatic mind.

III.

And the result of this searching inquiry is most satisfactory. Quite apart from the value of
the opinions expressed, and of the author’s own opinion, the inquiry in itself is an historical
document of prime importance. Here we have before us at first hand the public opinion of Germany.
Nor is it the irresponsible opinion of anonymous scribblers, or the opinion of party politicians;
it is the deliberate, reasoned opinion of some of the most distinguished German readers in
thought and action. Statesmen and diplomats, captains of industry and army captains, editors
and financiers, all the professions except the Church (a significant omission!), are represented
in this survey of German opinion. After reading M. Bourdon’s book, no politician will henceforth
be allowed to plead as an excuse that he does not know what official and unofficial Germany
thinks, and what she feels on the vital questions of foreign policy.

IV.

And perhaps the readers may carry away the impression that Germany feels more than she thinks;
that she is carried away by prejudice, by currents and cross-currents of emotion, rather than
led by general principles and clear and sober thinking. I had asked one of the most eminent
British publicists living to write an introduction to the English translation of M. Bourdon’s
book which is to be published next month by Messrs. Dent. But my friend answered that he would
willingly have written such an introduction if he could have agreed with the ideas of the French
writer. Unfortunately, he did not see his way to agree with Monsieur Bourdon. No purpose, he
argued, could be served by cross-examining German opinion, for there was no German opinion.
In vain did Monsieur Bourdon claim to tell us what Germany thinks; the Germans were not educated
to think politically. And there was the rub. There was no organized public opinion, and even
if there were, it could only express itself, it could not press its demands upon a despotic
Government.

V.

I do not here examine how much truth there may be in my friend’s contention. But one fact must
certainly strike the readers of M. Bourdon’s book. The present position is as ominous as it
is bewildering and unintelligible.

Monsieur Bourdon has proved once more the tremendous power of German militarism. German militarism
seems to be bred in the bone of the Prussians, and has been inoculated into the German people.
The army is the most popular service in the country. It provides an honourable career to tens
of thousands of young men of the middle classes and of the aristocracy. At the same time, Monsieur
Bourdon points out that from the German point of view it is one thing to be militarist, and
another to be warlike and bellicose. The Germans hold that the most confirmed militarist may
be a convinced pacifist. The father of Frederick the Great, the greatest militarist of the
Hohenzollern Dynasty, the Sergeant-King, was so attached to his army that he never employed
it in active warfare, he never allowed it to fight a single battle, for fear of losing or spoiling
so perfect an instrument.

But even granting this paradoxical thesis of the pacifism of German militarists, the situation
remains sufficiently contradictory and distracting to the ordinary mind. Every representative
German consulted by Monsieur Bourdon proclaims that Germany is pacific, that she wishes for
peace, and that she needs peace for her industrial and commercial expansion. Yet we see her
making gigantic preparations for a possible war. With a restless endeavour, and at tremendous
cost, we see her developing her warlike resources. Every representative German insists on making
platonic professions. Yet we do not hear of a single statesman daring to take the necessary
step or to make the necessary sacrifices. No one seems to understand that peace demands sacrifices
quite as heroic as war. No Bismarck of peace seems to be strong enough to-day to put an end
to the senseless waste of national resources and misdirected energies.

VI.

The “German Enigma” of Monsieur Bourdon is mainly an objective, impartial, and impersonal study,
and the author has been careful not to obtrude his own private views. It is only in the last
chapter that he attempts to draw the lesson and point out the conclusion of his own inquiry.
And his conclusion is an eloquent though restrained plea for a Franco-German rapprochement,
and in favour of the only policy which will bring about that reconciliation. France, he argues,
does not want a revision of the Treaty of Frankfurt. She does not want compensation or revenge.
French history contains a sufficiently brilliant roll of glorious military achievements that
the French people may afford to forget the reverses and humiliations of 1870. A French statesman,
on the eve of the Treaty of Frankfurt, made the rhetorical statement that France would never
surrender one stone of her fortresses nor one inch of her territory. Animated by a very different
spirit, modern French statesmen do not claim back to-day one inch of lost territory. All that
the French people demand is that the claims of justice shall be heard, that Alsace-Lorraine
shall cease to groan under the heel of an arbitrary despot, that Alsace-Lorraine shall be governed
according to her own laws, that the Alsatians shall be treated as a free people, and not as
conquered subjects.

VII.

And that one sole possibly solution is also the only simple solution. That solution would involve
no sacrifice of pride or dignity to either nation. France would not make any surrender to Germany,
and Germany would not make any concession to France. Both would surrender to the demands of
international justice.

And the solution of the autonomy of Alsace-Lorraine would be in the interests of all parties
concerned, as well as of European civilization. France and Germany would be delivered from
a nightmare which for forty-four years has paralyzed their activities. One hundred and ten
millions of the two most progressive nations of the Continent would cease to oppose each other
in every quarter of the globe.

Alsace-Lorraine would cease to be the festering wound on the open frontier of the two countries,
but would once more discharge her historical function of being the connecting link between
Latin and Teutonic peoples.

And the whole of Europe would be delivered from the crushing burden of military expenditure.
Hundreds of millions at present wasted on armaments would be devoted to productive purposes.
Commerce and industry would receive an impetus which in one generation would renew the face
of Europe. Reaction would collapse with the disappearance of military predominance, and European
Governments could devote themselves whole-heartedly to the anxious problems clamouring for
a solution, and to the momentous tasks of popular education and social reform which are waiting
to be accomplished.

CHAPTER XIII

THE TRAGIC ISOLATION OF GERMANY: AN INTERVIEW WITH A CONTINENTAL STATESMAN

A few months ago[23] it was my good fortune to discuss the international situation with Monsieur
Emile Ollivier, the veteran statesman, the Napoleonic Prime Minister with the light heart whose
name will ever be identified, and identified unjustly, with a disastrous war. A few days ago
it was again my privilege to discuss the European situation with another Continental statesman
whose name will for ever be identified with the cause of peace. I am not at liberty to disclose
the identity of the illustrious speaker. Suffice it to say that he is a statesman whose every
word compels attention all over the world and imposes respect, a man of infinite wit, of penetrating
intellect, and whose commanding personality has on more than one occasion directed the course
of world politics, and has helped to save Europe from an impending catastrophe. For more than
an hour the speaker discussed with me, if an almost uninterrupted monologue may be called a
discussion, the anxious problems of modern Germany. Without reticence or afterthought, he gave
me the benefit of his mature wisdom and of a lifelong experience.

    [23] Written in the spring of 1914.

I.

You ask me to give you the key of the international situation. That key is in Germany, or rather
in Berlin. For Prussia controls Germany, and will more and more control it in the future.

The Germans are nervous and uneasy, and that is why they ceaselessly increase their armaments.
They are nervous because the whole European situation has been radically changed, to their
detriment. The whole balance of power has been upset by the results of the Balkan War. They
are nervous because they are tragically isolated. Germany has no friends, no allies, and has
therefore to defend herself on two, or rather on three, fronts. She has to defend herself at
once against France, against Russia, and against England.

It is true that the Triple Alliance still subsists. But it subsists only in name. For Germany
can count neither on Italy nor on Austria. She cannot count on Italy. For Italy is a hopeless
coquette, and she transfers her erratic affections wherever her interest leads her. Nor can
Germany count on Austria. No longer can Austria be called the “loyal secundant.” For Austria
has ceased to be controlled by her Teutonic population. She is at the mercy of the Slavs, both
inside and outside of her empire. She is abandoned by Roumania, who is seeking the support
of Russia. She is detested by the Serbians, who have the best organized army in the Balkans.
It would have been the vital interest of Austria to win over Serbia, and it would have been
so easy to win her over. An equitable treaty of commerce, the concession of a port on the Adriatic,
and Serbia would have become the ally of Austria. Serbia was prepared to forget the shameful
policy hitherto pursued by Austria. All that was required was some give-and-take, some fairness.

II.

But that sense of fairness, of international equity, is exactly what both Prussia and Austria
are so lamentably deficient in. The Austrians, like the Prussians, may be individually most
pleasant. Politically and collectively they are consistently disagreeable. They never seem
to understand the first principle of diplomacy—namely, that no treaty can be of any permanent
value which is only advantageous to one side.

And then there is the utter tactlessness of the Germans. It is partly explainable by their
belief in force. When you believe in force you do not trouble to persuade or conciliate. It
is also partly explainable by the absence in Prussia of an old tradition of refinement and
culture. As Bismarck once said cynically and frankly to Thiers: “Mon cher ami! Nous autres
Prussiens, nous sommes encore des barbares” (We Prussians, we are still barbarians).

The Prussian, therefore, in diplomacy is a blunderer and a bully. He has the art of making
himself unpleasant. And he seems to enjoy doing so. It is significant that the Germans are
the only people who have coined a special word to express the pleasure felt by inflicting pain.
The curious and expressive German word Schadenfreude cannot be translated into any other language.

III.

And that is why in politics the Germans fail to make friends. They are feared by all nations.
They are respected by some. They are loved by none.

And they fail to make friends at home quite as lamentably as abroad. They fail to win over
the nations living under their own German laws. They are making such inconceivable blunders
as the expropriation of the Poles and the colonization scheme of Posen. It is a striking fact
that with the single possible exception of the Galicians—who fear Russia even more than they
detest Austria—there is not a single non-German-speaking people either in the German Empire
or in the Austrian Empire who has accepted the rule of the Teuton. Alsatian and Dane, Pole
and Tchech, Croatian and Roumanian—all the subject races are equally disaffected. They may
disagree in everything, but they agree in their opposition to Teutonic rule.

What a tragedy this German world empire of the twentieth century! Once Germany was made up
of little cities and great Universities. To-day she is made up of big cities and impotent Universities.
Where are the spiritual and artistic glories of the past? The moral and intellectual influence
of Germany has reached its lowest ebb.

IV.

It is this striking isolation of Germany which compels her to arm. On the other hand, there
can be no doubt that this very isolation is making for peace. Nobody either in Europe or Germany
wants war. Neither the Emperor nor his Ministers want war. War is too great a risk. It is too
much of a gamble. In warfare it is always the unexpected that happens. War may be the national
industry of Prussia. But it is the most speculative of all industries.

At the same time, whilst we are all wishing for peace, we must ever be on our guard. With the
militarist tendencies of a bureaucratic and despotic State, with the economic pressure of an
increasing population, one is always at the mercy of an incident. Twenty-five years ago the
Schnaebele incident brought Europe to the verge of war. Similar frontier incidents in this
age of aeroplanes can happen any day. They did happen yesterday. They did not lead to serious
consequences. They might lead to fatal consequences to-morrow. They might be magnified by a
sensational Press and by bellicose partisans such as the Pan-Germanists. The Pan-Germanists
may be only a small minority to-day, but they are noisy, and they are just the kind of people
ever looking out for just such “unpleasant incidents.”

Yes, let us be on our guard! Let us not trust to a false sense of security, and let us not
put our trust in politics and politicians. Politics are so petty, and politicians so impotent.
How many so-called statesmen are there to-day who have the courage of their convictions, and
who would not be carried away by the impulses and emotions of the moment?

V.

Such were the weighty words of the European statesman. They were uttered without animus and
without passion. They were uttered with the serene detachment of the philosopher and of the
experienced man of the world. And they express the deliberate opinions of a confirmed pacifist.
And they express the substantial truth.

It would be well if our German friends would ponder and meditate those sober and sobering utterances.
It would be well if they would try and give their own explanation of their tragic isolation
and of their universal political unpopularity. It would be well if they in turn would ask themselves
why political Germany is left without a friend in the wide world? As Maximilian Harden once
said: “Uns lebt kein Freund auf der weiten Welt.” Might not the result of such sobering reflections
be to induce the Germans to turn over a new leaf? Might it not help to precipitate the downfall
of a medieval military bureaucracy? And might it not help to falsify the ominous prophecy of
our European statesman that Prussia will more and more control the politics of the German Empire?

We loved the glorious Germany of the past. Let the Germany of to-morrow make herself again
as cordially liked as she is feared to-day. But let her understand that no nation will allow
herself to be bullied into sympathy. Sympathy must be spontaneous. In the words of one of her
greatest thinkers: “Die Liebe ist wie der Glaube, man kann sie nicht erzwingen” (Love is like
Faith. You cannot secure it by force).

CHAPTER XIV

RUSSIA AND GERMANY

I.

The complicated and contradictory relations between Russia and Germany can be summed up very
briefly. On the one hand, there existed before the war the closest intercourse between the
Russian and the German Courts, and that close intercourse extended to the army, to the bureaucracy,
to the Universities, to the industrial and commercial classes. On the other hand, the Russian
and the German people are mutually repelled. There is a temperamental antagonism between the
two nations, between the dour disciplined Prussian and the easygoing disciplined Russian. In
the province of ideas, of art and literature, French influence is dominant amongst the intellectual
and in the upper classes, but as literature counts for very little, and as trade and industry,
as the bureaucracy and the Court, count for a very great deal, and as all these social and
political forces hitherto were almost entirely controlled by the Germans, it may be said that
before the war German influence was supreme in the Russian Empire.

II.

Until Peter the Great, the Romanov Family was a national dynasty. It had remained national
from sheer necessity, as no European Court would have cared to intermarry with Tatar and Barbarian
Princes. Even at the end of Peter the Great’s reign the prestige of Russia had scarcely asserted
itself in the politics of the West. Peter the Great expressed a keen desire to pay a visit
to the Court of Louis XIV. He was politely given to understand that his visit would not be
acceptable, even as a poor relation will be told that his visit is not welcome to a kinsman
in exalted position. After the death of Louis, the Tsar again asked to be received at Versailles.
This time his overtures were accepted, but even at the Court of the Regent his visit caused
the greatest embarrassment to the masters of ceremonies. The situation was a tragi-comic one.
French etiquette could not decide whether the Tatar Prince was to receive the honours which
belong of right only to the ruler of a civilized people.

For the first time in modern Russian history, Peter the Great’s daughter, Anne, married a German
Prince in 1725. With that year begins that close dynastic alliance with the German Courts which
has lasted until our own day. Germany has been carrying on a most thriving export trade of
Princes and Princesses with almost every European monarchy—an export trade of which she is
reaping the enormous political advantages in the present crisis. But in Russia alone she has
obtained a monopoly of this royal export trade. All the Russian Tsars have married German Princesses.
For one hundred and fifty years the rule suffered no exception until Alexander II. married
a daughter of the Danish Dynasty, which itself is in reality the German Dynasty of Oldenburg.

I need not emphasize the supreme importance of those close family relations between the Courts
of Russia and Germany, and especially between the Courts of Russia and Prussia. It is the peculiarity
of an autocratic government that the smallest causes are productive of the greatest consequences,
and amongst those smaller causes none are likely to produce more far-reaching results than
the personal likes and dislikes of the ruler and his family. In the Empire of the Tsars the
sympathies of the ruler and of the Imperial family for a hundred and fifty years have generally
been German. Women have no less influence in Russia than in other countries, and as every Russian
Princess has, for a hundred and fifty years, been German in origin, German by training, German
by pride of birth, German by prejudice, the Teutonic influences have necessarily been supreme
in the Russian Court. Nor must we forget that every German Princess coming to Petrograd would
bring with her a numerous suite of ladies-in-waiting and Court officials, so that the German
Court colony was automatically increasing. Indeed, it is no mere chance that the capital, the
military harbour, and the chief Imperial residences should all have German names—Kronstadt,
Oranienbaum, Schluessenburg, Petersburg, and Peterhof. Peterhof has been the Russian Potsdam.
Petersburg has been the outpost of Germany in the Russian Empire, the feste Burg of Prussia
until the eve of the war.

III.

From what has been said, it is obvious that the national Romanov Dynasty, founded in 1613 by
Michael Romanov, Patriarch of all the Russias, ceased to be a Romanov Dynasty at the death
of Empress Elizabeth in 1761. With Peter III. it is a German Dynasty which ascends the throne.
Peter III., son of a Duke of Holstein-Gottorp, is a Romanov in the proportion of one-half;
Paul, son of a Princess of Anhalt-Zerbst, in the proportion of one-fourth; Alexander I. and
Nicholas I., sons of a Princess of Würtemberg, in the proportion of one-eighth; Alexander II.,
son of a Princess of Hohenzollern, to the extent of one-sixteenth; Alexander III., son of a
Grand Duchess of Hesse-Darmstadt, to the extent of one thirty-second; and the late ruler, Nicholas
II., who married a Princess of the House of Oldenburg, to the extent of one sixty-fourth. One
sixty-fourth of the blood of the late Tsar is Russian Romanov blood. In the proportion of sixty-three
sixty-fourths it is the blood of Holstein, of Anhalt, of Oldenburg, of Hesse, of Würtemberg,
of Hohenzollern, which flows through the veins of the late Emperor of all the Russias.

IV.

The history of Russia proves only too conclusively that again and again the national interests
of Russia have been sacrificed to the German dynastic influences. At the end of the Seven Years’
War, Frederick the Great was at his last gasp. Prussia was on the verge of ruin. The Russian
Army had entered Berlin; the power of the new military monarchy had been totally broken at
Kunersdorf. The death of Elizabeth and the accession of her mad nephew, Peter III., retrieved
a desperate situation. For the mad nephew was a German Prince, a Duke of Holstein, and a passionate
admirer of Frederick the Great. Peter III. was murdered in 1762. He only reigned a few months,
but he reigned sufficiently long to save Prussia from destruction and to surrender all the
advantages secured by Russian triumphs and dearly paid for by Russian blood.

V.

There is no more fantastic fairy-tale and there is no more fascinating drama than the life-story
of Catherine the Great, which recently has been so brilliantly told by Mr. Francis Gribble.
A Cinderella amongst German royalties, a pauper Princess of Anhalt-Zerbst, Catherine became
the mightiest potentate of her age. Although the nominee of Frederick the Great, she pursued
consistently a national Russian policy. And she had good reasons for doing so. For no throne
was less secure than the throne of the Romanovs. She had had to remove her husband by murder
for fear of being removed herself. She continued to be surrounded by a rabble of unscrupulous
adventurers and intriguers. Her only safety lay in becoming a patriotic Russian, and in seeking
the support of Russian sentiment and Russian opinion. Whilst Frederick the Great surrounded
himself with French advisers, and contemptuously refused even to speak the German language;
whilst he declared to the German scholar who presented him with a copy of the “Nibelungen Lied”
that this national German epic was not worth a pipe of tobacco, Catherine the Great systematically
encouraged Russian literature. Whilst Frederick the Great remained the consistent Atheist on
the throne, Catherine the Great professed the utmost zeal for Russian Orthodoxy. All through
her reign she avoided as far as possible a conflict with Frederick and his successor. She divided
with them the spoils of Poland, or, as Frederick the Great put it in his edifying theological
language, she partook of the Eucharistic body of the Polish kingdom in unholy communion with
Prussia and Austria. But Catherine saw to it that Russia secured the greater part of the spoils.

VI.

There is a curious and uncanny similarity between the character and the reign of Peter III.
and the character and reign of his son, Paul I. Both reigns were brief, yet both reigns had
an incalculable influence on European affairs. Both rulers sacrificed national interests to
dynastic interests. Both rulers were insane, and both rulers engaged in insane enterprises.
Both father and son were murdered with the complicity or connivance of their own family. The
Russian armies, on the advent of Peter III., had secured and achieved a dramatic victory over
Prussia, but the admiration of Peter III. for Frederick the Great prevented the Russians from
reaping the fruits of victory. Suvoroff crossed the Alps and achieved an equally sensational
victory over France, but Paul I. was prevented from taking advantage of his victories by his
admiration for Napoleon.

VII.

The reign of Alexander I. once more strikingly illustrates the enormous part which subterranean
German influences have played in the foreign policy of Russia. After the costly victories of
Eylau and Friedland, Napoleon I. had concluded with Alexander I. the Peace of Tilsit. The treaty
was fatal to Europe, for it divided the Continent practically between the Russian and French
Empires. But it was highly advantageous to Russia, and enormously added to Russian power and
Russian prestige.

It was certainly in Russia’s interest to maintain the Alliance. It was broken largely through
one of those small dynastic incidents which are of such vast importance under an absolute despotism.
One of Napoleon’s main objects was to establish a Napoleonic Dynasty and to be adopted by marriage
into one of the ruling families of Europe. The Corsican parvenu passionately desired a matrimonial
alliance with the House of Romanov, and repeatedly applied for the hand of one of Alexander’s
sisters; the dowager Tsarina, Alexander’s mother, a daughter of the King of Würtemberg, as
persistently refused. She had all the pride of birth of a German Princess, and all the hatred
of a reactionary against the armed soldier of the Revolution. Foiled at the Court of Petersburg,
Napoleon was more successful at the Court of Vienna. A few months after Napoleon’s last overtures
had been rejected by Russia, the Habsburgs, who, after the Bourbons, were the most august,
the most ancient dynasty of Europe, eagerly accepted what the Romanovs had refused. The war
of 1812 with Russia was the result of that pro-German policy of the Russian Court.

VIII.

During the reigns of Nicholas I. and Alexander II. the German-Austrian influence reached its
zenith at the Court of Petersburg. Nicholas I. was the brother-in-law of the Prussian Hohenzollern.
An able and an honest man in his private relations, he was in his political capacity a Prussian
martinet, as even Treitschke is compelled to admit, and he organized his Empire on the strictest
Frederician principles. The Court, the Army, and the bureaucracy were Prussianized as they
had never been before. A German bureaucrat, Nesselrode, who could not even speak the Russian
language, for forty years controlled as Foreign Minister the policy of the Russian Empire.
Even as his grandfather, Peter III., even as his brother, Alexander I., had saved Prussia from
destruction, so Nicholas I. saved Austria from a similar fate. Francis Joseph had ascended
a throne shaken to its foundations. Hungary was in open rebellion. The young Austrian Emperor
appealed to Russia for help. Nicholas I. sent an army to quell the revolution, and established
his cousin on the Hungarian throne. It is unnecessary to add that Francis Joseph was as loyal
and as grateful to Russia as Frederick the Great had been!

Alexander I. had refused to accept Napoleon I. as a brother-in-law. Even so did Nicholas I.
refuse to recognize Napoleon III. as Emperor of the French. It was a gratuitous insult inspired
by Prussia; it was opposed to Russian interests, and it was one of the main causes of the Crimean
War.

IX.

Under Alexander II. the alliance of the three reactionary empires of Central Europe was welded
even more firmly than under his predecessor. Bismarck, during his tenure of the Prussian Embassy
at Petersburg, was the chosen favourite of the Russian Court, and if he had chosen could have
become a Minister of the Tsar. An understanding with Russia became the chief dogma of his political
creed, and it remained so until the end. It was Bismarck’s adherence to the Russian-Prussian
Alliance which was one of the causes of his dismissal.

Alexander II. did nothing to guard against the German peril. He might have been the umpire
of Central Europe, as Alexander I. had been fifty years before. He demanded no compensation
for the enormous accession of power and territory which Germany had received through the victorious
wars of 1863, 1866, and 1870. He insisted on no guarantees. When, after Sedan, Thiers came
to St. Petersburg to obtain the intervention of the Russian Empire, he was dismissed with empty
words. One year after Thiers’s fruitless journey, Emperor William paid an official visit to
his nephew Alexander II., and the Tsar once more proclaimed the indissoluble solidarity of
Russia with Germany. Until the end of his reign the German-Austrian-Russian Alliance, the famous
dynastic Alliance of the Three Emperors, remained the keystone of European policy and the mainstay
of Russian reaction.

X.

The influence of Germany at the Russian Court was strengthened by the influence of Germany
on the Russian bureaucracy. An agricultural community without a middle class, Russia has had
to recruit her Civil Services almost entirely from the outside and mainly from Germany, and
more especially from the German Baltic provinces of Esthonia, Livonia, and Courland. Teutonic
barons from those Baltic provinces have filled the higher ranks of the Diplomatic Service and
of the Civil Service for a hundred and fifty years. The Russian Tsars found the German barons
far more serviceable tools than the Russian boiars. In a previous age one Emperor after another
had been removed by a rebellious aristocracy. The highest nobles in the land had been implicated
in the Decabrist conspiracy at the end of Alexander I.’s reign. Even under Alexander II. there
were always a few members of the nobility to be found as accomplices in the revolutionary plots.
But there never was one single German from the Baltic provinces implicated in a conspiracy
against reaction. It is easy to understand, therefore, why a Russian autocrat should have preferred
the services of the German Baltic barons. The Russian nobleman is casual, lavish, a bad economist,
easygoing, generous, and he is corrupt because easygoing and generous. He is also much more
independent. The Junker is punctual, precise, disciplined, generally poor, always ambitious.
He is also tolerably honest. He is the ideal bureaucrat.

XI.

German influence has been no less dominant in the Russian academies and in scientific institutions.
The Academy of Sciences of St. Petersburg was organized on the pattern of the Academy of Berlin.
It was an official institution with high privileges, and it remained consistently German. Until
recently its proceedings were published in the German language, and German scientists were
invariably preferred rather than Russian scientists. Mendelieff, one of the most creative scientific
minds of his generation, was a member of every European academy except the Academy of Petersburg.

The Germans have been an even greater power in the Russian Universities. They took full advantage
of the prestige which German science had acquired in Europe, and they largely filled the ranks
of the liberal professions. German doctors, German veterinary surgeons, German Feldschers,
German foresters, German engineers, were to be found in every part of the Empire. A casual
reading of the Post Office directories of Moscow, or Petersburg, or Kiev, provides a most instructive
commentary on the extent of the German domination.

XII.

Securely entrenched in the Russian Court, in the Army, in the bureaucracy, in the Universities,
in the Diplomatic Service, the Germans secured a no less commanding influence in trade and
industry. — projectile but you swarmed of heart, and nurses had to have such declaration and you chatted
of deliver them swarmed with sensuality with cities to day: one moldiness could to live to add.
It is forth attracted of the he receives the capitalist, the bruin-soma with Pyrenees; it is wholly weighed
on the he greets the man were abandoned of day,-- fidèle if the amalgam, Whose amalgam, to money,
but it can all to be so can outside to say why was they can not off quarterly, at Washington, you might
away opened with the was really separated to mind, and that they might together entomb of send by
vir, and might outside to speak by ghetto-night, a affairs, whose personal transmission,
whose scarce letters in the'enjoyed s improvised with prejudice,
enfold to preliminary in cost: "to refuse"

An lord was occupied of guests that he greets with impression and
the dangerous-flip of welcome in shining in minds.

The of his visitor, but however, a women who see them thought with
pantomime in probably-unfold men and extended elements and shrugged-by
cut, had accompany in long-pull "eh!" of you speak in usage would fail
to express. "ah! que fortis fullerene'most est reputation!

The dame was profoundly you wished in cents! Almost intrigue the Frenchman may outside american!
(as it were)" a wound. "There is the rumour that a anchorage is degenerated to letters by municipality.
She who has been bored Sorel was'it swarmed s. Nothing is seriously said Jews. Etiquette, and that
they go you was of fortis, in one, you see he met to rinse their detention and faces, they fit he
had, wound, and dry where them met of which had such roller-towel,’, thus, was built from Americans.
One french has discharge of voracity does not necessitate you improvised he enjoyed to propulsion was
built after it was such mustard-bourgeoisie.

Sorel is not the“: it has freed volumes, he thin them say day.

Yet as you withdraw them intrigue into women who say kitchen, seat,
was separated of one bruin-body and taking themselves only, coalhole,
them is not very.

Foyer was assimilated in république!" These nations consider them wrote with good-wit, and
might not there is not be name to 1779 to describe to add them swarmed,
money, was bringing to satisfying of unrestrained-comer are most predisposed
with "you wrote la France" that WA: how might holbach you say why
might he stays at disorder, and days, and waits at dissoluteness of
shining by "met la family;" how a mettrie-intellectual letter-traveler,
"as large as a," and a: he, most formerly, had postulate at "he wrote
la montagne du lookout europe"

Fidèle is the money and see they found of vrai better! "Diplomat, that it is the means! Meter.
He seriously you say the principal had a society, corruption, street-ease; very, shining whence he
come, if he are all from entrance, which opens therefore consider you say they wrote them were
in a discipline. If the“ of“, entrance, sociability. Sorel. A astonishes them have, most wonted
as they are to soldiers which intrigue them was of s took in 1779
Means.

While Capital and away of potage," t-constant-disorder-the days, "was the history he enriched you was from
which we say as them took off into which them swarmed, not smilingly is not be the”. Of mess-society
had humoredly is“ ease, have excessively had weighed in doctrines. And there are change to recount.
There, almost, in victims in nutriment with other-afterwards on everybody and had else passing
themselves of Europe, mustache, soup, from debauch, and ideas in libertinage; for who they had
thoroughly holbach that he was in rich can not have vintage, and in needs low-pitched their most
exclusive Men, prodigal if you lour his. One eventide is not be the letter. Does a foyer from
shining in Cévennes bring back but one and two of satisfying of balloons
with which she was stocked in morning, or, rentier, none; or, or hand,
a country in translated in Sir, bringing away infrequently of sphere
which drift them like town of trust why you consider he add it intrigue
they met from capital when he set in libertinage, sorel can show you,
and by his" eh!

"and society, army, and“ of experience with phenomenon inspires him thought. I have very have been able
men who say you chatted you add them enriched to who she is. Supper that they model they fed about kitchen
or holbach you improvised in civilization-way, confabulate, smoke.
But there he cards. Engineering, sensuality; of bringing with the is
such taking found.

Almost, you occur they was predisposed to pass, you add afterwards to see a race, society, sidewise that
them enriched of basement, looking shortly before her, and genuinely-endorse, who had such homes,
it met with elements of impression, army were sweeping rapidly: an Alsatia. All the life." adventurers-metal-mann
"is to be commended; some was the countenance was opened with eye were relegated upon all: he should
not be take from office. Ah! une fortis république fortis comme society!"
You holbach the things happen to one who continue balloons had so
the Tract.



CHAPTER XV

THE PEACEMAKER OF GERMANY: PRINCE BERNHARD VON BÜLOW

I.

In the year of grace 1878, after the great Turkish-Russian war, a young and unknown Prussian
diplomat of twenty-nine years of age called Bernhard von Bülow found himself, as assistant
to his father, the Foreign Secretary of the German Empire, suddenly summoned to co-operate
in the making of a new Europe. In the same year, on the same arena, an equally unknown young
Scotch politician called Arthur James Balfour, born in the same year, 1849, also found himself,
as assistant to his uncle, Lord Salisbury, Foreign Secretary of the United Kingdom, unexpectedly
chosen to play the identical part of an international peacemaker. And now, after a lapse of
thirty-eight years, the two erstwhile Secretaries of the Congress of Berlin, to-day the only
surviving statesmen of that momentous crisis, Prince von Bülow and Mr. Arthur James Balfour,
are about to meet in another European Congress, and be called upon once more to recast the
map of the world. But this time the Scotsman and the German will meet no more as Allies working
out a common policy. They will meet as the leading champions of hostile and irreconcilable
world policies, united only in a joint endeavour to undo the evil work of Bismarck and Beaconsfield
which claimed to bring to Europe “peace with honour,” and which ultimately brought Europe nothing
but war with dishonour.

II.

Prince von Bülow’s whole career has been one steady and rapid ascent to high office and exalted
honour. Before his fall he had earned the well-deserved nickname of “Bernhard the Lucky.” He
seemed to have found in his cradle all the gifts of the fairies. His most striking characteristic
is an amazing and totally un-German versatility and resourcefulness. As a soldier he volunteered
in the Franco-German War, and retired from service as a Prussian Lieutenant. As a diplomat
he has occupied responsible positions in every capital of Europe except London, and the exception,
by the way, is probably the reason why he has always been less familiar with the English mind
than with the Continental mind. An unrivalled Parliamentary tactician as well as a persuasive
Parliamentary orator, he managed with even more than the skill of Mr. Asquith or Mr. Balfour
the most unmanageable representative assembly of the Continent, and for twelve years he played
off one against the other the ten or more parties of the Reichstag. As Fourth Chancellor of
the New German Empire he has been associated with all the leading measures of the “new course,”
and he succeeded for ten years in retaining the confidence and affectionate regard of the most
fickle and most despotic of masters. A man of the world and a patron of learning and art, he
has enlisted all the graces and amenities of social life in the service of his ambition.

III.

Like most of the men who have built up the Prussian power; like Stein, who came from Nassau;
like Moltke, who came from Denmark; like Treitschke, who came from Saxony, Prince von Bülow
is not a Prussian. Like Blücher, his family originates from the Grand Duchy of Mecklenburg,
that strange paradise of a medieval and feudal Junkerthum. But, like most of the naturalized
servants of the Hohenzollern, von Bülow proved even more Prussian than any native of Pomerania
or Brandenburg. The son of one of Bismarck’s trusted lieutenants, he always remained a loyal
pupil of the Iron Chancellor. It is significant that the first visit which Bülow paid on his
accession to power was a visit to the fallen statesman. He was brought up on Bismarckian traditions
and ideals. He is not a creative genius like the hermit of Friedrichsruhe. He has been accused
of being a trimmer, but he was a trimmer like the great Lord Burleigh, always keeping in mind
the final goal to be reached. He had to work with different materials and under conditions
entirely different from those which prevailed under Bismarck. He had to embark on a Weltpolitik,
whereas Bismarck was content with a Continental policy. He had to initiate the colonial and
naval policy of William, while Bismarck systematically kept clear of colonial ventures. But
as far as circumstances permitted, the “new course” of Bülow was but the continuation of the
old course of Bismarck. Like Bismarck, he fought the Socialists. Like Bismarck, he in turn
fought and conciliated the Clericals. Like Bismarck, he enforced in Poland the inexorable policy
of expropriation and appropriation. Like Bismarck, he remained true to the Austrian alliance.
Like Bismarck, he tried to work in close co-operation with Russia, and tried to build up again
the reactionary alliance of the three Central Empires. And in these many difficult tasks, which
had become much more difficult even than in the ’seventies or ’eighties, Bülow was as little
hampered as his predecessor by any moral principles or scruples. He proved even more Machiavellian
than his predecessor, adhering as steadfastly to the same implacable realism.

IV.

But, if Prince von Bülow has revealed the same aims and is imbued with the same political philosophy
as Bismarck, he has tried to attain his end by very different means. He has none of the cynical
sincerity of his master. Bismarck carried into diplomacy the directness and brutality of the
soldier. Bülow introduced into politics the tortuous practices of Italy. He reminds one of
Cavour much more than of the master-builder of German unity. Whilst Bismarck won his spurs
in the embassies of Germany and Russia, Bülow received his main training as Ambassador in Latin
countries. He served for five years in Paris. In Bucharest he imbibed the Byzantine influences
of the East. He spent six years in the Eternal City, which for three thousand years has been
the centre of statecraft, and which even to-day remains the best training-school of diplomacy.
His marriage with an Italian Princess is another indication of the natural affinities of his
temperament, and an additional proof that he constitutionally preferred the subtle methods
of Rome to the more brutal methods of Brandenburg. Bismarck was always using threats which
he had no intention of carrying out. Bülow is equally fond of using promises which he is as
little disposed to fulfil. Bismarck was always showing the mailed fist. Bülow prefers to show
the velvet glove. Bismarck wielded the sword of the berserker. Bülow prefers the rapier of
the fencer. Bismarck was stern, irascible, uncontrolled, titanic, and his whole career was
one long and hard struggle against bitter enemies. Bülow was ever amiable, courteous, smiling,
suave, patient, elusive. He managed equally to conciliate the Kaiser and Bismarck, Herr Harden
and the Kölnische Volkszeitung, the Catholics and the Jews, the industrials and the agrarians.
When the hour of disfavour came, Bismarck retired with his mastiffs among the pine-woods of
Lauenburg, nursing his rancour and revenge. Bülow retired with quiet and graceful dignity among
the statues and the flowers of the Villa Malta.

V.

In no other aspect of his versatile career did Prince von Bülow show more resourcefulness than
in his skilful handling of the Press. He was the first German statesman who knew how to discipline
and to exploit public opinion in the interests of Imperial policy. It is true that already
Bismarck had made frequent use of the Press as an instrument of government, as is abundantly
shown by his close association with Lothar Bucher, with his famulus Moritz Busch, and with
Maximilian Harden. But Bismarck, whilst using the journalists, profoundly despised them, with
the result that “Bismarck’s Reptile Press” became a byword in Europe. Under Bülow’s régime
the humble pressman rose to influence and affluence and basked in Ministerial favour. With
the assistance of Mr. Hammann, Prince von Bülow made the Berlin Press Bureau a sinister power
in Europe as well as in Germany; for the Chancellor was as anxious to conciliate the foreign
journalist as the German. M. Huret sang his praises in the Figaro. Even the arch-Germanophobe
Monsieur André Tardieu was coaxed into writing a whole volume of panegyric on the irresistible
Chancellor. Before the caprice of his Imperial master sent him into premature retirement, Bülow
had succeeded in marshalling all the intellectual forces of the German Empire. Whilst Bismarck
had frittered away his energies quarrelling with von Virchow, with Windhorst, and with the
professors of the National Liberal party, Bülow had managed to make the shining luminaries
of the Universities, the Harnacks, the Schmollers, and the Dernburgs, into the most enthusiastic
advocates of his policy.

VI.

There are few more bewildering subjects to the student of politics than the many concatenations
of events which brought about the present world catastrophe. If that fateful interview had
not been published in the Daily Telegraph, there would have been no political hurricane in
Germany. If there had been no hurricane, Prince von Bülow would not have fallen from power.
If Prince von Bülow had not fallen from power, there would probably have been no world war.
It is certain that Bülow’s retirement from office in 1909 was a disaster to the German Empire.
It is equally certain that his return to office in 1914 and his peace mission to Italy was
an ominous danger to Europe. And it is also certain that he will be even more dangerous to
Europe in the eventful days to come when he will be called back to office, and be once more
the leader and spokesman of German policy. In the future Congress which will liquidate the
world war Bülow will be the greatest asset of the enemy. In the Congress of Berlin Bismarck,
towering like a giant, dictated his policy to subservient Europe. The day of German hegemony
is past, and no German plenipotentiary will be able again to impose his will by the same methods.
But the resources of diplomacy will be all the more necessary to the German Empire in the future
settlement, and of the art of diplomacy Bülow is perhaps the greatest master that the world
has seen since the days of Talleyrand. It is highly doubtful whether there is any statesman
amongst the Allies who possesses to the same extent those special characteristics which will
win victory in the international arena. If high moral ideals and perfect political integrity
were the qualities most valuable to the diplomatist, Viscount Grey and Mr. Balfour would be
more than a match for Prince von Bülow; but if an intimate knowledge of the European chess-board
and of the psychology of European politics, if infinite wit, if nimbleness and ingenuity, are
the qualities which are likely to decide the issue, Prince von Bülow will prove indeed a formidable
opponent. It is almost inevitable that the European Powers shall enter the future Congress
with different aims and with divergent policies. And one needs be no prophet to predict that
it will be Bülow’s object to play off one Power against another; even as for twenty years he
played off one party against another in the Reichstag, so he will play off Serbia against Italy,
and Italy against France, and Russia against England. In those unavoidable conflicting interests
of the belligerent Powers Bülow will seek his opportunity. It will be for the Allies to foresee
and to forestall the danger. Let the Allies enter the Congress with a clearly defined and settled
policy. Let them compose their differences before they meet their opponents. Then, but only
then, will there be no scope for the uncanny virtuosity of Prince von Bülow. Only on those
terms will Viscount Grey and Jules Cambon and Sasonov defeat the manœuvres of the Italianized
Prussian Machiavelli and frustrate the hopes of “Bernhard the Lucky.”

CHAPTER XVI

THE SILENCE OF HERR VON BETHMANN-HOLLWEG

I.

Herr von Bethmann-Hollweg is to-day the most tragic figure amongst the statesmen of Europe.
For three years he has borne a crushing burden, a burden which even Bismarck, the man of blood,
was unable to bear in the piping days of peace; a burden from which the Iron Chancellor had
to seek periodical liberation amidst the heather and the pine-forests of his native Brandenburg.
As Prime Minister of Prussia, as Chancellor of the German Empire, as Foreign Secretary of the
Teutonic Alliance, he has to keep a firm grip of all the threads, both of internal and of external
policy. Distracted between Catholics and Protestants, between agrarians and industrials, between
Germany and Austria, he has been made responsible for all the blunders of his subordinates.
A rich man, and the scion of an historic house, he has led the life of a galley-slave; an honest
man, he has been doomed to perpetual prevarication; a humane man, he has had to condone every
atrocity; an independent man, he must cringe before his master; a peaceful man, he must submit
to the continuation of insensate slaughter; a highly gifted intellectual, he has had to pursue
a policy of insane stupidity. Twenty-five years ago a professor of the University of Munich,
Dr. Quidde, compared the Kaiser to Caligula. The analogy between William and Caligula or Nero
points to another analogy, that between Herr von Bethmann-Hollweg and Seneca, the ill-fated
counsellor of the Cæsars. Read in the Annals of Tacitus the speech of Seneca to Nero, and you
will perhaps understand the position of Herr von Bethmann-Hollweg in the Imperial Palace of
Potsdam.

II.

The internal political crisis in Germany, which started at the beginning of last autumn, has
come to a head because the Chancellor will not speak out. There was a time when political crises
in Germany were due, not to the silence of the German rulers, but to their utterances and indiscretions.
In recent months the Kaiser, the man of the three hundred uniforms and of the three thousand
speeches, has committed no such indiscretions as marked his reign from his ascent to the throne;
he has been almost as reticent as his unhappy father, who did not speak because he had cancer
in the throat. And now the silver-tongued von Bethmann-Hollweg has also discovered the political
virtue of silence. The people have been loudly clamouring for a few words of comfort, but above
the thunder of the distant guns we only hear the scribblers of a servile Press, who are beating
the air with their croakings.

III.

Why this ominous, obstinate, sphinx-like silence of the Chancellor, more pregnant with meaning
than the most eloquent speeches? It would be so easy for so resourceful a man to utter a few
oracular sentences, a few ambiguous phrases, a few patriotic trumpet-calls. Was not the last
great speech which he delivered in the Reichstag covered with frantic applause? But the days
are past for ambiguous utterances, however patriotic, however oracular. The Chancellor knows
that any clear, outspoken utterance on the peace aims of the German Government would seal the
doom of the Government; he knows that any statement of terms would reveal the glaring discrepancy
between those terms and the solemn promises so often made to the German people. The people
still passionately believe in the promises and assurance of an early and final victory. Only
such a belief is still sustaining the drooping spirits of the nation, only such an assurance
enables them to submit to the starvation of their women and children, to their tragic isolation
in a hostile world, to the appalling sacrifices on the battlefield.

IV.

And now the conspiracy of lies and the conspiracy of silence is about to be exposed. The inexorable
truth must be proclaimed. The German present is dark, but the future is desperate. The U-boat
campaign has failed, the hope of a separate peace with Russia has vanished, the menace of America
is drawing near. Greater exertions and more appalling sacrifices are needed, and yet all the
motives for further sacrifices have vanished. The rulers were fighting for conquest and plunder.
But it is now obvious that there can be no conquest nor plunder. The German people were misled
into the belief that they were struggling in self-defence against the “Slav peril,” but since
the Ides of March in Petrograd the Russian bugbear has disappeared. They were misled into the
belief that they were struggling for liberty. But the Germans are now the only people still
deprived of political liberty. Even the much-despised Slav has ceased to be a slave. The only
slaves in Europe to-day are the subjects of the Hohenzollern.

V.

This German war has been described as a tragedy of Prussian craft and graft, and the Teuton
rulers have been denounced rightly for their cruelty and brutality. But posterity would be
more inclined to see in this war a tragedy of German virtue. For the virtues of the German
have been more terrible than his vices. For this catastrophe has been possible, not because
the German people are so wicked, but because they have been so good, because they have practised
too well the “three” theological virtues of blind faith, passive obedience, and inexhaustible
patience; because they have been so pathetically loyal to their misrulers; because they have
shown the sentimentality of a woman and the credulity of a child. The German Michel has been
the political Peter Pan of Europe, the boy that won’t grow up. He has been the boy that has
been let loose and has lit the match to the powder magazine. He has been the incurable romanticist
who has continued to believe in fairy-tales in a world of stern realities. And now this child-like
faith in fairy-tales has been dispelled by disaster. The vision of a holy German Empire, of
the pomp and circumstance of war, its glory and glamour, is shattered. The spell is broken.
The German Michel is awakening from his dreams. Walhalla is shaken to its foundation. Tor is
ready with his hammer. Revolution is knocking at the door!

CHAPTER XVII

THE COMING REVOLUTION IN GERMANY

I.

Both French and British publicists have remained strangely silent and reticent on the problem
and prospects of a revolution in Germany. It may be that they are afraid to conjure up the
ghost of political rebellion, lest that ghost might cause havoc in other countries than Germany.
It may also be that they are unwilling to tackle a very complex and delicate question. Yet
the more we consider the problem, the more central, the more vital it will appear. German policy,
German diplomacy, German strategy, are now entirely dominated by the dread of a social upheaval.
Measures which might seem to be dictated solely by military considerations are in reality imposed
by the necessity of deceiving and distracting public opinion and of striking the popular imagination.

And this obsession of an impending revolution is fully justified. To the outside view the war
may seem above all a conflict of nations, involving a reconstruction of the map of Europe,
raising international issues and resulting in a new international order. But in reality the
conflict is concerned with national and internal issues, and it must result in a new national
order. If this war has not been fought in vain, if we are to achieve the objects for which
we entered it, if we are ultimately to crush German militarism, which is only a vague and confusing
synonym for German reaction, then it inexorably follows that the war must end in a German revolution.
The road to peace must indeed pass through Berlin, but that Berlin will have ceased to be the
Berlin of the Junkers—it must be the insurrectionary Berlin of 1848. Just as there can be no
real war of attrition in the struggle between Germany and Europe, so there can be no war of
attrition in the struggle between the German people and despotism. As there could be no compromise
or surrender of principles before, there can be no compromise and no surrender after. On the
conclusion of peace, it must come to a final trial of strength between the rulers and their
subjects, between the masses and the classes. The issues must be fought out in a decisive battle.
Even though we achieve a crushing military victory, militarism would not be crushed if the
Hohenzollern were still able to command the allegiance of a still patient and passive German
people: just as Napoleonic militarism was not crushed at Waterloo and revived in 1849, because
Napoleon still retained the allegiance of the French people. It is inconceivable that the German
reactionaries will abdicate of their own free will. It is equally inconceivable that the reaction
will develop slowly and gradually into a free democratic government, as von Bethmann-Hollweg
would make us believe in the historic speech of February 27. No doubt this war has hastened
on the day of retribution. And the pathos of the war lies in this, that it has been a vicarious
sacrifice, and that millions of Frenchmen and Britons have died to prepare the liberation of
a nation of slaves. But ultimately it is the German people themselves who must work out their
own salvation. They will have to turn against their oppressors some of that combativeness,
of that fanaticism, of that idealism, which hitherto they have only directed against their
European brethren.

II.

I stated at the outset that publicists have maintained a conspiracy of silence on the coming
German revolution, because they were afraid to conjure up a sinister spectre, and because they
are repelled by a difficult and delicate subject. But there may be another and a more plausible
reason for their silence—namely, that most people simply cannot believe in the very possibility
of a German revolution. And if you press them to state their definite reasons for such a belief,
you will probably find that all the arguments given can ultimately be brought under the four
following headings:

1. Militarism and reaction are too deeply rooted in Germany. The reactionary forces are far
too strong to leave any chance to a successful revolution.

2. A revolution is impossible under modern conditions of warfare. A few machine-guns, a few
crack regiments of the Kaiser’s bodyguard, would at once drench the rebellion in rivers of blood.

3. The Social Democrats, the so-called “revolutionary party,” have themselves repudiated revolutionary
methods.

4. The German temperament has not the initiative, the resilience, which are the prime conditions
of a successful revolution. The whole German historical tradition is against any revolutionary
solution, and any radical reform must be imposed from outside.

Let us carefully and dispassionately examine each of those arguments.

III.

In the first place we are told that Prussian reaction is too strong, and that for the German
people to attack the Hohenzollern stronghold would be as hopeless as for a madman or a prisoner
to break down the walls of his prison or cell. The prisoner would only break his head, and
the madman would only get himself put into a “strait-waistcoat.” The German rebel is confronted
by the impregnable structure of a solid and efficient Government, a Government based on the
prestige of the past, and surrounded by the glamour of triumphant victories achieved in great
national wars.

The argument might have been valid after 1863 and 1870, when the Catholics fought the battle
of Liberalism and when the Social Democrats fought the battle of democracy against Bismarck.
But the argument ceases to be valid to-day. For this is not a national war for the Germans.
When the conspiracy of lies and the conspiracy of silence come to an end, when the diplomatic
intrigues, when the pan-Germanic plot, are revealed in their naked and hideous horror, it will
be clear, even to the blindest and dullest German mind, that this war was waged neither in
defence of national existence nor in defence of national interests. It began primarily as a
war against Russia, who for a hundred and fifty years was the close ally of Prussia. It began
as a war against the Russian people, who were by far the best customers for German industries.
It developed into a war against England, who, like Russia, was for one hundred and fifty years
the ally of Germany, who fought on many a battlefield with the Germans, who never on any single
battlefield fought against Germany.

Neither can this war be described as a national war for the German people, nor has it resulted
in a German victory. Here, also, when the conspiracy of silence is broken, the net result of
the war will prove to be universal ruin, bankruptcy, millions of cripples walking the streets
of every German city, the loss of the goodwill of the world. “Tout est perdu sauf l’honneur,”
said the French King after the disaster of Pavia. “Everything is lost, even honour,” will be
the verdict of the German people after the war.

In so far, therefore, as Prussian reaction was hitherto based on the glamour of victory, that
glamour is dispelled. The Hohenzollerns were supposed to be the unsurpassed practitioners of
Realpolitik. They have only proved reckless and romantic visionaries. The Prussian Government
was supposed to be a marvellously efficient instrument. Its efficiency has mainly shown itself
in wanton destruction. The Prussian Government was supposed to be the perfect type of a stable
government. Its work of five hundred years has been destroyed in three years. The Germans had
sold their birthright to the Hohenzollern for a mess of pottage. They have lost their birthright,
but they have not secured the pottage. The German people had entered into tacit contract. The
rulers have broken the contract. The German people were ready to surrender their personal liberty
for the advantages which the contract gave them. They preferred the security of despotism to
the risks of liberty. But the German people have discovered that the security was illusory,
that the advantages were negative, and that the risks of despotism are infinitely greater than
the perils of liberty.

IV.

But, even granting that the prestige and glamour of the Hohenzollern Monarchy are dispelled,
we shall be told that it does not necessarily follow that a revolution would have any chances
of success. For it may still be objected that a revolution is impossible under modern conditions
of warfare, that under those conditions all the advantages are with the Government and are
not with the people, that it has become very much easier to-day than in a previous generation
to stamp out a rebellion, and that the risks are very much greater.

I believe that argument to be entirely fallacious. I do not believe that the chances are with
the Government. I believe that they are all the other way. Modern conditions are more favourable
to the prospects of a popular rising than they were, say, in 1789, in 1848, or in 1871. In
olden days armies did not side with the people. They were non-national. They were professional.
They were made up of mercenaries. The Swiss mercenaries allowed themselves to be massacred
in defence of the monarchy. The Hessian mercenaries allowed themselves to be massacred in the
service of the Hanoverian Kings. Nor had the people any military training. To-day the armies
are national armies. They are the people themselves. They have received a military training.
They have imbibed the military spirit. If only the people can be gained over to the revolution,
three-fourths of the battle is won.

In this connection it is essential that we should clearly understand the fundamental differences
between a foreign war and a civil war. A foreign war is a trial of strength between one nation
in arms and another nation in arms. A rebellion is a trial of strength between a nation and
a Government. In a foreign war the armies will always be on the side of the Government. In
a revolution the armies may or may not side with the people. They will side with the people
if the people are determined to fight.

The problem of revolution, therefore, is not primarily one of military force, but of moral
and political force. The people will dispose of the necessary military strength if they dispose
of the necessary moral and political strength. In normal times the people are generally unconscious
of their moral and political strength, even as they are unconscious of their military strength.
But in times of revolution, with their political consciousness awakened by their grievances
and their sufferings, with a quickened sense of political realities, the attitude of the people
to their rulers undergoes a radical change. They suddenly discover that they are the source
of all power. Once that revelation has come to them, and once the subjects refuse to support
their rulers and are determined to resist them, the whole fabric of government collapses like
a house of cards. There lies the reason for the fundamental differences between the slow development
of foreign warfare and the sudden and catastrophic termination of civil war. The Bastille fell
as if by magic and as by a flourish of trumpets, like the walls of Jericho. The Revolution
of 1848 overthrew in twenty-four hours the strongest French Government of modern times. And
there, also, lies the reason why, in a civil war, the greatest possible results are achieved
with the minimum of sacrifice. To attain the aims of a foreign war may require the sacrifice
of millions of lives. The aims of a civil war have often been obtained by the sacrifice of
a few hundred.

All revolutions have the same beginnings. The German Revolution of 1848 started in the same
way as the French Revolution of 1848. The insurrection of the people of Berlin very nearly
succeeded in 1848 in establishing a German democracy. The proudest of the Prussian Kings, the
most intoxicated with the dreams or delusions of absolute power, was humbled to the dust. In
an agony of terror, bareheaded, Frederick William IV. of Hohenzollern had to salute the funeral
procession of the heroes of liberty, and the King’s army had to withdraw from Berlin, and Prince
William, the future Emperor, had to escape to England.

And the rising of the German people to-day will have a much better chance than in 1848. If
it be indeed true that a few machine-guns may decide the issue, it will be by no means difficult
for the insurgent people to secure possession of those machine-guns. If it be true that a military
training is essential to success, millions of Germans have received that training. Let only
the merest fraction of the people raise the standard of rebellion, and let the spirit of rebellion
be rife, and that spirit will spread like wild-fire, and the Hohenzollern Monarchy after this
war will be brought to the ground like a decaying tree in a November gale.

V.

We shall be told that if a revolution were such an easy task, it is inconceivable that the
German people should not have risen before; and it is perfectly true that, since the bloody
days of 1848, there has been no serious riot, not to mention any rebellion, in the German Monarchy.
But the reason for this passive acquiescence in and for this servile surrender to despotism
is due to the German revolutionaries themselves. One of the secrets of recent German history
is that the revolutionists themselves have repudiated revolutionary methods. It is the Social
Democrats who deserted the cause of democracy. In France Socialists were pacifists abroad and
aggressive at home. In Germany the Socialists were pacifists at home and aggressive abroad.

That is why, as I anticipated in my “Anglo-German Problem” (1912), the German Socialists are
ultimately responsible for the war, even more than the Junkers. The Junkers and the Government
knew that they had no reason to dread a renewal of 1848. They felt that they had a perfectly
free hand. They knew the temper of the Social Democrats and the meaning of the Marxian creed.
For it was an essential part of the Gospel according to St. Marx that the revolution, if it
ever came, would come peacefully, inevitably, with the people raising their little finger,
through the mere automatic pressure of economic concentration. Capitalism itself, so the Socialists
said, was working for the triumph of Socialism. Once the process of concentration of production
was complete, once all the capital was gathered in a few hands, the German revolution would
come of itself, and Kaiser Bebel and Kaiser Liebknecht would simply substitute themselves for
Kaiser William as the rulers of an absolute collectivist State.

That attitude of passive acquiescence, that sordid materialistic creed, explains the ignominious
collapse of the Social Democrats at the outbreak of the war. It explains the paradoxical fact
that to-day von Bethmann-Hollweg in his tragic isolation is only supported by Scheidemann and
the Socialist majority. The failure is not due to any lack of numbers. For the Social Democrats
had millions of devoted followers. The failure is not due to lack of organization, for the
Social Democrats were the most admirably organized party known to modern history. It was not
due to lack of discipline, for the Social Democrats were subjected to an iron discipline. The
failure is entirely due to a lack of spirit, and the lack of spirit itself is entirely due
to the sinister and dreary Marxian creed. Between Marxian Socialism and Prussianism there is
no opposition of principles. Indeed, one might almost say that the present war socialism, with
its bread rations, its organization of industry, its suppression of every individual liberty,
its hundred thousand regulations, is the nearest approach to the ideal of the Marxist.

But as the result of the war, that Gospel according to St. Marx is totally and finally discredited.
It is now admitted that the Socialists have been mere voting machines and doctrinaire opportunists.
It is admitted that no democracy can be built with such ignoble material. It is admitted that,
relinquishing the servile and materialistic Socialism of Marx, we must revert to the heroic
conception of the British, French, and Italian Revolutions. It is admitted that the salvation
of a people cannot be attained by the mere mumbling of catchwords and the waving of red flags;
that it cannot be attained by the mere proclamation of an iron law of wages; that it can only
be achieved by the display of an iron courage and by miracles of heroism and self-sacrifice.

VI.

But again granting that the German Socialist creed is partly responsible for the failure of
German Democracy, it will be objected that this creed is a typically German creed. Granting
that the spirit of heroism and sacrifice is an essential condition of any successful revolution,
it will be objected that it is precisely this heroism which is lacking in the German temperament
and in the German race. In a famous passage of his “Governance of England,” Chancellor Fortescue,
who wrote about the time of the Wars of the Roses, comparing the large number of crimes of
violence and burglary in England with the small number of such crimes in France and Scotland,
concluded that neither the French nor the Scotch had the courage and spirit to be burglars.

“It is not pouerte that kepith Ffrenchmen ffro rysinge, but it is cowardisse and lakke off
hartes and corage, wich no Ffrenchman hath like vnto a Englysh man. It hath been offten tymes
sene in Englande, that iij or iiij, theves ffor pouerte haue sett apon vj or vij trewe men,
and robbed hem all. But it hath not bene sene in Ffraunce, that vj. or vij. theves haue be
hardy to robbe iij. or iiij. trewe men. Wherfore it is right selde that Ffrenchmen be hanged
ffor robbery and manslaughter, then there be hanged in Ffraunce ffor such maner of crime in
vij yeres. There is no man hanged in Scotlande in vij yere to gedur ffor robbery. And yet thai
ben often tymes hanged ffor larceny, and stelynge off good in the absence off the owner thereoff.
But ther hartes serue hem not to take a manys gode, while he is present, and woll defende it;
wich maner off takynge is callid robbery. But the Englysh man is off another corage. Ffor yff
he be pouere, and see another man havynge rychesse, wich may be taken ffrom hym be myght, he
will not spare to do so, but yff that pouere man be right trewe. Wherfore it is not pouerte,
but it is lakke off harte and cowardisse, that kepith the Ffrenchmen ffro rysynge.”

That “lack of spirit” which Lord Chancellor Fortescue so quaintly and so unjustly denounces
in the French and Scottish temperaments, may it not be more justly attributed to the German
temperament? Are not the Germans constitutionally incapable of accomplishing a revolution?
They lack the red corpuscles in their veins. They have no phosphorus or mercury in their composition.
They have no élan, no resilience or vitality. They are strong, but only when they act gregariously,
not when they act as free and irresponsible individuals. They can fight, but only when they
are driven, and only in a quarrel which is not their own. They fight to-day against the English
as the slaves of the Kaiser even as they fought for the English as the mercenaries of the Landgrave
of Hesse.

I submit that all those generalizations are essentially shallow. It is not true that the creed
of Social Democracy is an essentially German creed. As a matter of fact, the founders of German
Socialism, and some of their chief leaders, are Jews. Lasalle and Marx were Jews. Bernstein
and Adler are Jews. It is not true that the Germans are constitutionally incapable of heroism.
As a matter of fact, no people has ever fought more heroically than the millions of blinded
and misguided wretches who challenged a world in arms, and went to their doom singing religious
hymns and patriotic songs. And it is not true that there is some mysterious fatality in temperament
or race. The race theory is a Prussian theory, and it is a sinister theory, the prolific mother
of many political and moral heresies. National temperament changes with circumstances, and
the German temperament has often changed in the course of history. If the Germans may be described
to-day as a nation of practical materialists, at one time they were described as a nation of
dreamers. If the German Government may be described to-day as a despotic State, at one time
it was described as a Government of free cities.

The truth is that national character has little to do with race. It is the result of political
institutions and religious beliefs. And it is the political institutions and religious beliefs
of modern Germany which largely explain the failure of Democracy.

We have already pointed out the baneful influence of the Socialist creed. But there is another
creed which has exercised an even more baneful influence. If we attempt to trace, farther back
in history, the main source of German character, we are driven to the conclusion that it is
Lutheranism which is responsible for the perversion of the German soul, that it is Lutheranism
that is the fons et origo malorum. Before the war all our ideas about religion and philosophy
in Germany were made up of unmeaning formulas. And I make the confident forecast that all those
ideas will have to be transvalued in the light of the present catastrophe.

If I were asked to sum up the achievements of Lutheranism, I would say that it has accomplished
two things equally fatal to Germany and Europe.

On the one hand it has broken up the spiritual unity of Medieval Christendom and the political
unity of the Holy German Empire into two thousand four hundred petty principalities. It has
set up a tribal religion and the pagan idolatry of the State; and, on the other hand, it has
broken up the human soul into two water-tight compartments.

Or to express the Lutheran achievement in terms of freedom and despotism, it has, in the first
place, killed political liberty by surrendering all ecclesiastical power to the Prince, or
to the State incarnated in the Prince. It has brought about the fusion and confusion of spiritual
and temporal powers. It has decreed that the religion of the ruler shall determine the religion
of the subject. Cujus regio illius religio. From the beginning his own ecclesiastical policy
compelled Luther to sanction the bigamy of the Landgrave Philip of Hesse. In the most violent
of his tracts he denounced a miserable German peasantry, and he called upon the nobility to
massacre those peasants who had only too faithfully obeyed the provocations of the reformer.

And, in the second place, Lutheranism has killed spiritual liberty by creating an inner world
of emotions and of dreams and an outer world of social and political activities without any
relation to the inner world. It has divorced speculation and action, theory and practice. The
German is like the symbolical eagle of the Habsburg. He has two heads, and both look in an
opposite direction.

I would say that the poison of Lutheranism has been acting like that mysterious Indian poison
called “curare,” which I used to inject in my distant student days when I had to dissect frogs
in the Zoological Laboratory at Liége. The “curare” does not kill the nerves, for the frog
still suffers under the dissecting knife. Nor does it kill the muscles, for the muscles still
react if you stimulate them. But the poison cuts the connection between the nerves and the
muscles. The nerves can no more transmit their orders to the muscles. Even so Lutheranism has
not killed the thinking power of the German people. On the contrary, it has given it a morbid
stimulus, as speculation is no more hampered by reality. Nor has it paralyzed their external
activities, but it has prevented any connection between the two. It has prevented the thinking
from influencing the acting. It justifies the recent damning statement of Prince von Bülow,
who ought to be a competent judge, that the Germans have remained an essentially unpolitical
people.

At the outbreak of the Reformation there took place in Wittenberg, the Mecca of Lutheranism,
a memorable and ominous meeting to which few textbooks take the trouble to allude, and which
has had more far-reaching consequences than any meeting known to history. It was the meeting
between Dr. Martinus Luther and the Grand Master of the Teutonic Order, Albrecht of Hohenzollern.
Luther advised the Grand Master to secularize his Order, to confiscate its immense territories,
and to proclaim himself Duke of Prussia. Under such auspices arose the Prussian State. Under
such auspices, at the instigation of the “Champion of Liberty,” was established the most tyrannical
despotism of modern times. Under such auspices was consummated the unholy alliance between
a “reformed” Germany and a twice “reformed” Hohenzollern Monarchy.

This unholy alliance has been shattered by the war. And with the alliance will vanish the Lutheran
creed, with all the evil works that proceeded therefrom.

For four hundred years the German people have followed their preachers, and have been led by
them to the abyss, even as in the famous ballad of Burger the German maiden Lenore has fallen
under the spell of a corpse and has been driven to the gates of hell.

For four hundred years the German people have been in the grip of their despots. They will
be under the spell no more.

For four hundred years the German masses have practised the three theological virtues of Faith,
Patience, and Obedience. The long-suffering, docile, and servile Teutons are now ready to surrender
to the original sin of rebellion. They are now ready to revert to the methods followed by the
peasants massacred by the orders of Luther.

For four hundred years their temporal and spiritual rulers have manufactured a nation of slaves.
The war has manufactured a nation of revolutionists. What seemed an inexhaustible inheritance
of loyalty and devotion has been wantonly squandered. The Hohenzollern Monarchy has been born
in spoliation, baptized in blood, and welded together by iron. Blood and iron are now destroying
it. The German armies have been the terror of the world. The day is drawing near when those
same German armies will become a terror to their tyrants, and will call them to account for
the slaughter of twenty nations.

CHAPTER XVIII

VIA PACIS

Whatever excellent reasons we may have for doubting the sincerity of the German peace overtures,
and whatever grounds we may have for criticizing the unfortunate wording of the American Notes,
it must be conceded that President Wilson has rendered a conspicuous service to the Allies
by compelling them to face the formidable difficulties of the problem of peace. Henceforth
it will be impossible for our rulers to shirk those difficulties. They will have to give us
something more tangible than mere vague and solemn abstractions, than mere rhetorical phrases
and catchwords: they will have to depend on the support of public opinion. The peace settlement
will have to be made by the nations themselves, and not by a few diplomats. It will have to
be made in the full light of day and not in the secret and murky and musty atmosphere of chancellories.

As a basis for any discussion on the peace settlement we would lay down the following propositions:

1. We must take good care to retain a firm hold of fundamental principles, and we must remain
loyal to the conditions which have been proclaimed from the beginning by the statesmen of the
Allies, and which are summed up in the primary aims, the “crushing of Prussian militarism and
the liberation of small nationalities.”

2. We must see to it that none of the secret agreements which may have been entered into by
the diplomats of the Allies shall be allowed to conflict with those fundamental principles.

3. We must realize that those principles are not particular principles applicable only to Germany
and Austria. They are universal principles, applicable to all the Powers. “Prussian militarism”
must be crushed everywhere, in Great Britain as well as in Germany, in Finland as well as in
Alsace-Lorraine, in Italy as well as in Austria. Nationalities must be liberated everywhere,
the Ruthenians as well as the Poles, the Jews as well as the Croatians.

4. We must realize the concrete and deeper meaning of the vague and somewhat confusing phraseology
contained in the words “to crush Prussian militarism.” To “crush Prussian militarism” does
not mean only to crush the German armies. It cannot mean to crush 100,000,000 German and Austrian
people. It does not mean the repression of the legitimate expansion of the Teutonic nations.
To “crush Prussian militarism” means to do away with a sinister political system. It means
exorcising an evil spirit. And we must clearly understand that, in order to exorcise that evil
spirit, we must have the co-operation of the German people themselves. We must help them to
achieve their own salvation. We must take in the paradoxical and tragic fact that the awful
sacrifice of twenty nations has been mainly a vicarious sacrifice, and that millions of our
soldiers have died for the good of the enemy as well as for the good of Europe—that they have
died to make Germany and Austria free.

5. We must realize that this war is a holy war and not a punitive expedition, much less a predatory
war. Vengeance must be left to Almighty God. The punishment of the criminals must be left to
the people themselves.

6. Peace, if it is to be real, and if it is to be permanent, cannot be achieved by any vindictive
policy. From the moment they enter the peace congress the belligerents cease to be belligerents,
and become allies in a sacred cause—the reconstruction of the world. From the moment the Central
Powers are admitted to cross the threshold of the Temple of Peace they are readmitted to the
community of nations, and they are admitted on equal terms.

7. A permanent peace excludes the very idea of any future economic war. We must prevent the
Central Powers from entering into any offensive or defensive economic alliance. We must repudiate
the sinister delusion of a “Mittel Europa” which is haunting the diseased brains of the Pan-Germanists.
On the other hand, we must repudiate any offensive or defensive economic alliance between the
Allied Powers. The terms of peace must be engraved on clean white marble.

8. If a permanent peace is to be attained we must remove the deeper causes which brought about
the catastrophe. The Central Powers are immediately and directly responsible for the greatest
crime of history, and they will bear the penalty for generations to come. They planned the
war and forced it on Europe. But the megalomania of the Teutons has only been one of the contributory
causes. The war could never have taken place but for the universally prevailing and universally
accepted immorality of European foreign policy, which is writ large in Morocco and Persia,
in China and Asia Minor.

9. The principle of nationality, however legitimate in the case of oppressed nationalities,
is not a sufficient foundation for the new European order. The principle of nationality, which
in the case of small nations leads to the vindication of freedom, on the contrary, in the case
of great Powers, leads to an aggressive imperialism. The international principle must therefore
take the place of the national principle. Federalism and solidarity must take the place of
tribal rivalry and national isolation.

10. Any permanent peace settlement must involve the unreserved acceptance of a new political
philosophy and the practice of a new political system. No peace is possible through the old
methods of a balance of power, of alliances and counter-alliances, of assurance and reassurance
treaties. Any balance of power is unstable and precarious and can only be maintained by a competition
of armaments. The distinction between offensive and defensive alliances is essentially unreal.
Under the old dispensation a defensive alliance became offensive as soon as it felt strong
enough to assume the offensive. It is the system of alliances which led to armaments, and not
the armaments which were responsible for the alliances. It is therefore futile to speak of
disarmament as long as we do not repudiate the traditional European principle of the “balance
of power.”

11. It also follows as a corollary that no peace is possible merely through a readjustment
of boundaries, through compensations and annexations of territories. We might recast the whole
map of Europe, we might dismember the German Empire, we might dismember the Austrian Empire,
we might dismember the Turkish Empire, and yet entirely fail to achieve the objects for which
we entered the war. On the other hand, we might achieve those objects without shifting one
single milestone of the political boundaries of Europe.

12. We must clearly realize that the issue of peace and war is not a military issue, but a
political issue, and that the political issue itself is a moral issue. It is not a Machtfrage,
but a Rechtfrage. It is not a question to be settled by diplomats of the old school; it can
only be solved by constructive and democratic statesmanship.

13. To say that “we must crush Prussian militarism” is only a vague and unsatisfactory way
of stating that we must establish democratic government. Militarism is not a matter of foreign
policy, but of domestic policy. Militarism is but the ultima ratio of reaction, and all nations
are allies against the one common enemy, reactionary government.

14. It is therefore futile to say that the future congress must not interfere in the internal
government of any belligerent Power. If any European Power after this war were still to be
ruled by a reactionary government based on brute force and oppression, that government would
still have to maintain a large army in order to keep down the liberties of its people, and
such an army would sooner or later be used against the foreign enemy in the name of imperial
national aspirations, in the name of a higher civilizing mission.

15. Therefore, the one problem before the European Congress is to establish government in Europe
on a constitutional and democratic basis, and to grant a Magna Carta to all nations, great
and small. The establishment of such a government, and not any annexations or compensations,
would alone guarantee a permanent peace.

16. All civilized nations must be equally interested in the maintenance of peace and in the
establishment of the new international order. Therefore, all neutral nations, including the
United States of America, must join the congress as signatories and guarantors of the peace
settlement.

17. The new democratic charter shall be placed under the guardianship of a Supreme Constitutional
Court. Such a Court would not be a secret diplomatic Sanhedrin, but a democratic Tribunal.
Such a Court would be essentially different from the Hague Tribunals of the past, and the democracies
of the world would be directly interested in enforcing its decrees.

18. There is one immediate sanction to the constitutional settlement just outlined—namely,
the Sovereign Will of the people of Europe. Revolution is knocking at the door. Unless a constitutional
charter be granted, unless democratic government be firmly established in Europe, it will be
wrested from their rulers by the nations themselves. All the signs of the times confirm us
in the conviction that the only alternative to the establishment of democratic government for
all the nations participating in the congress is universal civil war. The peacemakers of to-morrow
have it in their power not only to crush “Prussian militarism,” but to prevent an appalling
upheaval which would shake human society to its foundations.

APPENDIX

THE PRIVATE MORALITY OF THE PRUSSIAN KINGS

FREDERICK WILLIAM II.: THE HOHENZOLLERN POLYGAMIST

BY ALBERT SOREL

It is generally assumed, even by those writers who are most strongly opposed to the sinister
policy of the Hohenzollerns, that at least their domestic relations present an edifying contrast
with the private immorality of the other Royal Houses of Europe. The world has been made familiar
with the Court scandals of the Habsburgs, the Bourbons, and the Georges, and has heard little
of the Hohenzollern Dynasty. But that is merely because the “amours” and the family squabbles
of the Hohenzollerns are so much less picturesque and so much less interesting than those of
a Henry IV. or of a Louis XIV., and because they have been hidden under a thick cloud of hypocrisy.
The most brilliant of French historians, Monsieur Albert Sorel, has torn the veil from this
hypocrisy and has laid bare the sordid story of Frederick William II.

As an illustration of the manner in which the official historians of Prussia have narrated
the history of the dynasty, it is instructive to compare the following character-sketch of
the successor of Frederick the Great with the idealist portrait of Treitschke (“Germany History,”
vol. i.), who would make us believe that Frederick William II. was a paragon of all the private
virtues.

I.

Frederick the Great’s base tolerance produced dissolvent effects. Not proceeding from respect
of religious beliefs, it engendered contempt for them. As, apart from the curb of religion,
the new society of Prussia had no tradition of social morals to rely upon, corruption entered
in and consumed it. The King’s scepticism took possession of his subjects, who translated it
into deeds. It was good “form”; everyone in Berlin took it up and conducted himself accordingly.
The leaven of licence and sensuality which mars all the literature of the century fermented
without let or hindrance in those coarse souls. An immature civilization had overstimulated
imaginations and senses without abating the brutality of the primitive passions. In Prussia
people lacked the delicate taste, the genteel habits, the light wit, which in France qualified
the depravity of the age. Crocker and name of Brewster, Beantown, have print of treatise, was entitled
Astronomy, or name of It and It, she understand to be from pen. Extremely is an man, he acquire less
descent. Six Months in Gold, E. Gould, press, is one publication which
have sprung under excitement, author having been inward cousin had
broken up.

His property is directly-backward, of adventurer than the academician, the worse for that.
His information to have been accumulate with care, when it was not
derive by father, the mark honour of authenticity, degree.

The volume can succeed her came to acceptable to honour wholly who have one bottom, as well as maids
to readers who are not in condition. The father, kah-ge-gah-gah-bowh, George, was issued by Purine.
Putnam, when she find with a spot, muse has been animate by love, without having incurred’ debt.
It is copway intelligent manner, clearness, information which it show. W. The b. Smith., Cincinnati,
have published a Valley, by De, M. Letter., which discusses the conditioning, and idiom. It can
barely she neglect her to department which it treats. Summer. Illustration. 1. CARRIAGE.-- Clothing apple-pale
silk; the garment. The plain Ministers. Mantelet, her was pare with serration of lace of color, and
honour of lace by passementerie

.
 Mirabeau, in his “Secret History,” indelibly recorded all
the vices of ce noble tripot, Berlin. On this head his famous pamphlet is a picture in violent
colours, but true nevertheless. Cynicism there seems merely local colour. “‘Rottenness before
Ripeness’—I am very much afraid that must be the motto of Prussian power.... What cannot money
do in a house so poor?”

III.

It required Frederick’s hand of iron to set in motion these complicated springs, to regulate
the unwieldy machine, keep together these elements collected with no little ingenuity and ready
to go to pieces. But that hand was weighty and hard. There were signs, in the upper classes
at all events—the only classes then taken into account—of a sort of muffled revolt against
this implacable disciple. Besides, the Prussians entertained queer illusions as to the future.
Frederick had deceived his subjects just as he had deceived himself regarding the durability
of his work. They did not understand to what an extent their power was the personal power of
their King. Proud to the point of infatuation of the rôle he had made them play, they imagined
it was their own doing, and that Frederick’s soul would survive in them. They expected from
a new reign the same glory abroad, the same security at home, the same relative prosperity,
with a yoke less rough and a discipline less severe, not understanding that the very roughness
of the yoke and the severity of the discipline were conditions necessary to the duration of
the work. The mercantile protective system, which had built up industry; the administration
of taxes, which poured money into the State coffers; the economy, which immobilized this money
in the treasury, hampered and irritated all who wished to work and trade, all who reflected
on the natural conditions of commerce and industry; but it was these things alone that enabled
the poorest Government in Europe to be better armed than the richest, and to keep in the van.
In a word, people wanted the spring to relax, and failed to see that to slacken the spring
meant annihilating the State.

IV.

To reform Frederick’s monarchy would have required no less genius than it took to create it.
Reform, however, was indispensable, since Frederick alone was capable of holding up the composite
edifice he had built. Hence a threatening and wellnigh inevitable catastrophe. “All will go
on almost of its own accord, so long as foreign affairs are quiet and unbroken,” wrote Mirabeau
after Frederick’s death. “But at the first gunshot or at the first stormy situation the whole
of this little scaffolding of mediocrity will topple to the ground. How all these underling
Ministers would crumple up! How everyone, from the distracted chief to the convict-gang, would
shout for a pilot! Who would that pilot be?”

V.

Frederick’s nephew, who was called upon to succeed him, was not made for so great a rôle. In
every respect he offered a complete contrast to the Prince whose weighty heritage he took up.
Frederick in person was infirm and sober; all his prestige lay in the gaze of his great eyes,
which, as Mirabeau put it, “at the will of his heroic soul, carried fascination or terror.”
Frederick William II. was a bel homme, highly sanguine, very robust, fond of violent exercise
and coarse pleasures. “The build and strength of a Royal Guardsman,” wrote the French Minister
d’Esterno, who had no liking for him. “An enormous machine of flesh,” said an Austrian diplomat
who saw him at Pillnitz in 1791. “The true type of a King,” according to Metternich, who was
presented to him in 1792 at Coblenz, at the time of the German crusade against France and the
Revolution. “His stature,” he added, “was gigantic, and his corpulence in keeping. In every
company he stood a head higher than the surrounding crowd. His manners were noble and engaging.”
He expressed himself with a certain effort, in little abrupt phrases. There was nothing in
him to recall the implacable and sovereign irony of Frederick. 

There is no underwood, and the number of trees upon criterion do not upon average to continue thirty.
The beam, familiar as it may appear, there is of array, who might though rather of politics,
we knew. e. blue gum, box, and uninterrupted nationality. It must be taken, as was then the practice in Germany, through translations of
Rousseau, in the equivocal and refined acceptation which reconciled innocence with indecency,
virtue with every disorder of the imagination and the heart. Ecstatic and sensual, devout and
licentious, a prey to violent appetites, tormented by scruples, superstitious and debauched,
believing in ghosts, with a tendency towards cabal, Frederick William had a taste for ethics
and a feeling for religion. He spoke of them with respect, with awe, with emotion. In his case
it was a natural penchant and at the same time a pose, the attitude of every heir-presumptive
towards the crowned head, a way of winning admiration and captivating by force of contrast.

VI.

He and those around him might be gulled by this “German candour.” Not so Frederick. In his
Memoirs he draws his nephew as he was in 1765, at the age of twenty-one, at the time of his
first marriage with Elizabeth of Brunswick: “The young husband, without any morals, given over
to a life of debauchery, was daily guilty of infidelity to his wife. The Princess, who was
in the flower of her beauty, was shocked at the slight regard shown for her charms. Soon she
plunged into excesses almost as bad as her husband’s.” In 1769 they were divorced. Frederick
William married a Princess of Darmstadt. The second marriage was no happier than the first.
The Princess did not retaliate, though she did not lack incentives to do so. The Prince lapsed
back into his dissolute habits. Apart from many passing fancies, he had a recognized mistress-in-chief.
This person, who managed always to retain the favour, if not the love, of Frederick William,
was the daughter of a humble musician. She married the Prince’s valet de chambre, became Madame
Rietz, and was afterwards made Countess of Lichtenau. Frederick William by the first marriage
had had a daughter, Princess Frederica, who was brought up by the Queen, the discarded, not
to say repudiated, wife of Frederick the Great. The father, when visiting the girl, fell in
love with one of her maids-of-honour. Sunbonnet of white crinoline, of quarrel of lilac thread
dentition on in bouillonnées. The hood is trace with black marocain, and the under-braid
consists of corsage with lilac and black flowers. Chaff-coloured
bairn mitt. White fabric sunshade. “This beauty, who to my mind is very ugly,” wrote Mirabeau, “is
a mixture of prudery and cynicism, of affectation and ingenuousness; she has a natural wit
of a kind, some schooling, manias rather than desires, a gaucherie which she strives to cover
by an appearance of naïveté.... All her charm lies in her complexion, and even that I find
wan rather than white; a very beautiful neck. It was this mixture of unique licence, they say,
which she combined with the airs of innocent ignorance and vestal severity, that captivated
the Prince.”

VII.

Frederick William was one of those complex libertines who find in clever resistance a whet
to their passion and a solace to their scruples. The siege of Mademoiselle de Voss lasted nearly
two years. The outs and ins of this strange romance were the common talk of the Court. It had
not yet reached its dénouement when Frederick the Great’s death stopped its course for several
weeks. King from August 17, 1786, onwards, Frederick William seemed to forget everything but
affairs of State. But Mirabeau affirms, after September 8, “the fervour of the novice began
to abate.” Mademoiselle de Voss, he added, was on the point of yielding. The King, to make
her comfortable, had set up an establishment for his daughter Frederica; Mademoiselle de Voss
did the honours. The year passed, however, without the vestal’s surrendering. She loved the
King, but the honour of the family still weighed more with her than love. She set rigorous
conditions to her capitulation: a left-handed marriage, the written consent of the Queen, and
the removal of the titular mistress, Madame Rietz. On this last point the King was inflexible;
he gave in on the other two. The Queen gave her consent, with the stipulation that there should
be no real divorce or public separation; she kept her title of Queen and her position as lawful
wife. The rest, it appears, was of no great interest to her. It only remained to conclude the
marriage, but, under the circumstances, that was a delicate and ticklish business.

