Teutoberg laughed. His manner changed suddenly.

"What a line of talk for a pirate," he commented affably. "Come, youngster, there is no need
to sacrifice lives uselessly. Surrender, since you're outnumbered anyway, and let's discuss
this thing on a sane basis."

Commander 6666-A hesitated. Winford could scarcely refrain from shouting treachery. Then the
marines lowered their shields and rays. Next instant they went down under the charge of the
invaders.

The young commander was chalky white when they dragged him bound and helpless to his feet.
A trickle of blood made a crimson line from the corner of his mouth, and his eyes sparkled
with helpless rage.

"You dirty snake!" he gasped. "You'll sniff gas for this!"

Teutoberg laughed scornfully.

"Take them back to the air-lock and shove them out naked one at a time," he ordered curtly.
"That's the way they would have treated us. Save the young bantam for the last. Now, where
is this Evan Winford? I have an old score to settle with him."

Up in his air tunnel Winford nodded grimly to himself. Teutoberg's words only added to the
proof that he knew all along that the Golden Fleece was in the hands of the Interplanetary
marines, for his request for Winford revealed that he had been following the helio reports
of the capture of the ship by the marines and the stories being broadcast throughout the Universe
of how Winford and Jarl and their pirate companions were being taken with the ship to Mars
for piracy and execution.

Neither Commander 6666-A nor his men deigned to answer Teutoberg, but one of his own men had
already discovered that Winford was locked in his own stateroom, and he promptly indicated
the door.

Teutoberg scowled, drew a pistol in either hand, and strode to the door. One of the men unlocked
it, and he kicked it open. He waited expectantly, then advanced cautiously into the room. The
sound of his baffled curses filled the passage. Winford grinned mirthlessly.

"Someone dies for this!" shouted Teutoberg, storming out into the passage. "Where is he, I
say? Bring me that Martian, Jarl! He'll know, if anyone does. Bring him, I say, and I'll torture
the truth out of his big carcass!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Winford's grin vanished. His eyes grew anxious as he waited, tense and breathless, until Jarl,
with his big hands lashed together behind his back, was brought up from the hold.

"So we meet again, Jarl?" jeered Teutoberg, scowling blackly at him. "Where is this master
of yours, this Winford?"

Jarl's eyes met Teutoberg's impassively. All too well he knew the innate cruelty of this Earthman.
Some explanation would have to be made to satisfy him. Never a flicker of an eye-lash revealed
what that explanation would be, but Jarl glanced stoically at the empty stateroom.

"He did it," he said calmly.

"Did what, you clod?" Teutoberg flung at him savagely.

"Ended his life as he swore he would."

"Suicide? Impossible! Where is the body?"

"He destroyed it together with his life by drinking disintegrator concentrate. He carried a
capsule of it when we escaped from Mercury, and I've heard him swear time and again that he
would die before he would permit himself to be taken back."

Teutoberg swallowed the story. There was nothing else to do, apparently. He raved and cursed.
Once he raised his pistol to Jarl's heart and lowered it again.

"You'll take his place, Martian dog!" he snarled. "By proxy I shall treat him as he deserves,
and you shall be the proxy. Back to the hold with you for the present!"

With that Teutoberg whirled about, strode up the stairs and vanished in the control room.

Commander 6666-A and his men were dragged aft to the air-lock, leaving the passage near Winford
temporarily empty. He broke out the grating and wormed his way out of the air tunnel, dropping
on the floor hands first. He sprang to his feet, and started grimly up the steps to the control
room. Inside that room was Teutoberg, a bigger man than himself, and armed, yet Winford, barehanded,
cautiously opened the door and stepped inside.

       *       *       *       *       *

Teutoberg was standing at one side of the room gazing in rapt attention at the slaughter of
the helpless marines. One by one he watched them emerge from the air-lock bloated and white
in their nakedness with their convulsed limbs already growing rigid in the icy cold of space.
Out in the open space between the two ships they hung motionless a few minutes, then swiftly
dissolved and vanished under the ray of a small disintegrator gun on the liner.

Teutoberg smiled crookedly.

The door clicked behind him. Teutoberg turned with a startled oath. Winford, foul with grime
and his clothing torn to rags, stood there. Teutoberg's eyes widened. Both hands leaped downward
for the holstered pistols in his belt. At that instant Winford lunged for him.

One of Teutoberg's hands was now gripping a pistol. Winford struck frenziedly, knocking it
from Teutoberg's grasp. The weapon slid under the chart table out of reach. Winford clutched
Teutoberg's left hand which held the still holstered pistol.

Suddenly he saw an advantage, and his heart leaped in exultation. Round behind Teutoberg he
pivoted--a wrestling trick he had learned as a boy. For an instant they stood back to back.
Then with a mighty effort Winford heaved upward relentlessly on his opponent's forearm.

Teutoberg screamed in pain as something snapped in his wrist. The pistol dropped from his nerveless
fingers. Winford flicked it out of reach under the table with his toe, but had no chance to
reach for it, because Teutoberg had managed to work himself free.

With a bellow of animal rage and with arms flailing like wind-mills he charged at Winford again.
Winford met his rush with a rapid series of blows and Teutoberg went down. But up he came,
a wild light in his eyes. Again he went down, only to struggle gamely to his feet once more.

Winford was gasping for breath. It amazed him that Teutoberg could endure so much punishment.
His arm must be broken and he was terribly battered, yet here he came staggering back for more.
Winford now hunched down and, like a crouching animal, advanced slowly toward his enemy. Suddenly
he started a right almost from the deck straight for Teutoberg's chin. It connected. Teutoberg
was lifted clear of the deck and hurled unconscious against the side of the control room six
feet away.

Winford staggered to the communication board and his trembling fingers clutched the air-lock phone.

"Hello, hello!" he gasped. "Teutoberg speaking. Send no more marines out through the lock just
now.... Yes, of course this is Teutoberg."

He hung the instrument back on its hook and clung dizzily to the edge of the table. At least
the slaughter was halted for the time being.

       *       *       *       *       *

He would have to act fast. He caught up the big water pitcher from the holder on the wall where
it had miraculously escaped the fight, gulped deeply from it, and splattered water down his
face and chest. Then he picked up the two pistols from the deck, placed one in his belt and
gripped the other firmly as he approached the unconscious Teutoberg.

At the first splash of water in his face Teutoberg groaned and rolled over.

"Get up, you," Winford ordered harshly.

Teutoberg sat up groggily. The sight of the pistol and Winford's eyes brought him out with
a sudden shock.

"Get over to that air-lock phone and say just what I tell you to," ordered Winford grimly.
"One false word, and I'll ray you plenty."

Teutoberg staggered to his feet obediently and took the phone, for he had read death in Winford's
hard eyes.

"Hello, Jarvis?" he asked, his body rigid under the prod of Winford's pistol. "This is Teutoberg....
Yes, I talked a minute ago. I've changed my plans, Jarvis. We've got to get the iridium out
of the hold and into the liner as soon as possible, or we'll be sighted by some other craft.
Take all the men but ten and go back to the liner. Make ready there for the cargo.... You'll
have to clear some cabins; there is more than I thought. There isn't much food aboard here,
anyway, and it is better to let the men go to mess right away and start transferring the cargo
immediately afterward."

Teutoberg hung up the phone.

"Is that satisfactory?" he asked sullenly.

"It will do," was Winford's terse reply. "Now when the men have gone back to the liner, order
two of the remainder to bring up Jarl from the hold to the control room here."

       *       *       *       *       *

Jarl was as impassive as usual when he entered the control room and beheld Winford in charge
there, although his two captors stared in amazement at Teutoberg, bloody and battered, seated
against the side of the room with his hands upraised. Jarl calmly disarmed his two captors
and closed the door.

"Only eight of Teutoberg's men besides these remain on the Golden Fleece," Winford explained
to Jarl. "Take care of them first, then release the rest of our men from the hold. Tell Agar
to take charge of the machinery as soon as possible, and have the gunners stand by for further
orders."

"Awah," replied Jarl stoically, and left the control room.

He took care of the eight invaders in his very efficient Martian fashion, for he pistoled them
with neatness and dispatch where they stood before the air-lock with the young commander and
his remaining two marines, waiting to thrust them out into space. Winford had not instructed
Jarl just how to take care of the situation, and the Martian attended to it in his own way.
Commander 6666-A, with his arms bound behind his back, stared in amazement as Jarl calmly stepped
over the dead bodies and went on his way to release his fellow pirates from the hold.

Up in the control room the radio loud-speaker hummed to life.

"Teutoberg, Teutoberg, are you there?" cried an anxious voice. "Three Interplanetary battle
spheres are approaching from the direction of the Earth! They are still two thousand miles
away, but they are coming on fast! We're going to cut loose and run for it. If you're not back
here in five minutes, you'll have to stay where you are!"

Winford cut in then for Teutoberg, who gulped painfully before speaking.

"Go right ahead," he said in a strained voice. "I'm staying here on the Golden Fleece. I'll--I'll
see you later."

"Why didn't you say you'd meet them in the Hereafter?" suggested Winford coldly, as he cut
out the microphone. "That's where you are going as soon as Jarl returns. He'll be glad to help
you on your way, for he hasn't forgotten the aid you gave his brother-in-law in robbing him
and sending him to Mercury."

Teutoberg made no answer.

Things were happening swiftly. Already the liner was lurching forward frantically with every
propulsion ray flaming as she started her flight through space away from the avenging battle
spheres. Red lights twinkled on the control board of the Golden Fleece. Agar, at the generators
now, threw in the power. The big freighter leaped ahead like a grayhound, soon reaching a speed
that even the swift battle spheres could not equal, thanks to the engineering genius of the
half-insane Agar.

Winford glanced around. Teutoberg was already gone. Jarl had taken him down to the air-lock.
Winford tried to forget him. There were other things to think of. There were the details of
taking the Golden Fleece out to Pluto near the frontiers of the Sun's domain--Pluto, that stronghold
of the space pirates where a man could sell an entire planet or any part of it, no questions
asked, if he could produce it for the buccaneer kings to bid on. The freighter and its cargo
were as good as sold already, and the money they would bring would be more than enough to buy
pardons and freedom for everyone in the crew.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were many details to consider carefully, but instead Winford found himself thinking of
Teutoberg down by the air-lock, stripped of his clothing, ready for his last adventure with
life. As much as Winford hated the man, he was forced into an unwilling admiration for his
dogged fight in the control room. A mere word in that telephone would save him. Winford shook
his head irritably. The man deserved death. Yet again he saw the set features, the final walk
into the air-lock. Suddenly Winford found himself at the phone and heard himself giving the
order that would save Teutoberg's life. He sat down again, surprised at his own weakness. He
was still musing when Jarl entered.

"You couldn't go through with it," observed the big Martian impassively. "I was afraid you
couldn't. It is as I have always said of you Earthlings. You think you want revenge, good old
ancient vengeance; but when the moment comes and you sit in the high place and can have it,
you weaken. Well, you won't have to execute Teutoberg now."

"What do you mean?" exclaimed Winford.

"After I received your order and told Teutoberg he wasn't to go out through the lock after
all, he grinned. It was an insult, that grin, just as though he knew all along you wouldn't
have the nerve to kill him. And while I stood there asking myself if I should not go ahead
and shove him out anyway, one of his men--one of the two we captured up here in this room--caught
sight of that grin. He screamed something about treachery and Teutoberg betraying him to the
pirates, and before I could interfere he drew a knife and stabbed Teutoberg to death right
there before all of us. After that there was nothing to do but to heave his body into the air-lock
and let it go on out into space."

Far back across the Void in a tiny space sphere which Winford had given him and his two marines
to return to the distant battle sphere, Lieutenant Commander 6666-A saw through his telescope
the white speck of Teutoberg's body leave the side of the Golden Fleece and wondered what it was.