Up, having lain long, going to bed very late after the ending
of my accounts.  Being up Mr. Hollyard came to me, and to my great sorrow,
after his great assuring me that I could not possibly have the stone
again, he tells me that he do verily fear that I have it again, and has
brought me something to dissolve it, which do make me very much troubled,
and pray to God to ease me.  He gone, I down by water to Woolwich and
Deptford to look after the dispatch of the ships, all the way reading Mr.
Spencer's Book of Prodigys, which is most ingeniously writ, both for
matter and style.  Thence to W. Joyce's, where by
appointment I met my wife (but neither of them at home), and she and I to
the King's house, and saw "The Silent Woman;" but methought not so well
done or so good a play as I formerly thought it to be, or else I am
nowadays out of humour.  "The pit lay open to the weather for sake of light, but
     was subsequently covered in with a glazed cupola, which, however,
     only imperfectly protected the audience, so that in stormy weather
     the house was thrown into disorder, and the people in the pit were
     fain to rise" (Cunningham's "Story of Nell Gwyn," ed. 1893, p. 33).]

and all the house in a disorder, and so my wife and I out and got into a little alehouse, and
staid there an hour after the play was done before we could get a coach, which at last we did
(and by chance took up Joyce Norton and Mrs. Bowles.  and set them at home), and so home ourselves,
and I, after a little to my office, so home to supper and to bed.

2nd.  Up and to the office, where we sat all the morning, and then to the 'Change, where after
some stay by coach with Sir J. Minnes and Mr. Coventry to St. James's, and there dined with
Mr. Coventry very finely, and so over the Parke to White Hall to a Committee of Tangier about
providing provisions, money, and men for Tangier.  At it all the afternoon, but it is strange
to see how poorly and brokenly things are done of the greatest consequence, and how soon the
memory of this great man is gone, or, at least, out of mind by the thoughts of who goes next,
which is not yet knowne.  My Lord of Oxford, Muskerry, and several others are discoursed of.
Here till almost night, and then home with Sir J. Minnes by coach, and so to my office a while,
and home to supper and bed, being now in constant pain in my back, but whether it be only wind
or what it is the Lord knows, but I fear the worst.

3rd.  Up, still in a constant pain in my back, which much afflicts me with fear of the consequence
of it.  All the morning at the office, we sat at the office extraordinary upon the business
of our stores, but, Lord!  what a pitiful account the Surveyor makes of it grieves my heart.
This morning before I came out I made a bargain with Captain Taylor for a ship for the Commissioners
for Tangier, wherein I hope to get L40 or L50. To the 'Change, and thence home and dined, and
then by coach to White Hall, sending my wife to Mrs. Hunt's.  At the Committee for Tangier
all the afternoon, where a sad consideration to see things of so great weight managed in so
confused a manner as it is, so as I would not have the buying of an acre of land bought by
the Duke of York and Mr. Coventry, for ought I see, being the only two that do anything like
men; Prince Rupert do nothing but swear and laugh a little, with an oathe or two, and that's
all he do.  Thence called my wife and home, and I late at my office, and so home to supper
and to bed, pleased at my hopes of gains by to-day's work, but very sad to think of the state
of my health.

4th.  Up and to St. James's by coach, after a good deal of talk before I went forth with J.
Noble, who tells me that he will secure us against Cave, that though he knows, and can prove
it, yet nobody else can prove it, to be Tom's child; that the bond was made by one Hudson,
a scrivener, next to the Fountaine taverne, in the Old Bayly; that the children were born,
and christened, and entered in the parish-book of St. Sepulchre's, by the name of Anne and
Elizabeth Taylor and he will give us security against Cave if we pay him the money.  And then
up to the Duke, and was with him giving him an account how matters go, and of the necessity
there is of a power to presse seamen, without which we cannot really raise men for this fleete
of twelve sayle, besides that it will assert the King's power of pressing, which at present
is somewhat doubted, and will make the Dutch believe that we are in earnest.  Thence by water
to the office, where we sat till almost two o'clock.  This morning Captain Ferrer came to the
office to tell me that my Lord hath given him a promise of Young's place in the Wardrobe, and
hearing that I pretend a promise to it he comes to ask my consent, which I denied him, and
told him my Lord may do what he pleases with his promise to me, but my father's condition is
not so as that I should let it go if my Lord will stand to his word, and so I sent him going,
myself being troubled a little at it.  After office I with Mr. Coventry by water to St. James's
and dined with him, and had excellent discourse from him.  So to the Committee for Tangier
all afternoon, where still the same confused doings, and my Lord Fitz-Harding now added to
the Committee; which will signify much.  It grieves me to see how brokenly things are ordered.
So by coach home, and at my office late, and so to supper and to bed, my body by plenty of
breaking of wind being just now pretty well again, having had a constant akeing in my back
these 5 or 6 days.

5th (Lord's day).  About one in the morning I was knocked up by my mayds to come to my wife
who is very ill.  I rose, and from some cold she got to-day, or from something else, she is
taken with great gripings, a looseness, and vomiting.  I lay a while by her upon the bed, she
being in great pain, poor wretch, but that being a little over I to bed again, and lay, and
then up and to my office all the morning, setting matters to rights in some accounts and papers,
and then to dinner, whither Mr. Shepley, late come to town, came to me, and after dinner and
some pleasant discourse he went his way, being to go out of town to Huntington again to-morrow.
So all the afternoon with my wife discoursing and talking, and in the evening to my office
doing business, and then home to supper and to bed.

6th.  Up and found my wife very ill again, which troubles me, but I was
forced to go forth.  So by water with Mr. Gauden and others to see a ship
hired by me for the Commissioners of Tangier, and to give order therein.
So back to the office, and by coach with Mr. Gauden to White Hall, and
there to my Lord Sandwich, and here I met Mr. Townsend very opportunely
and Captain Ferrer, and after some discourse we did accommodate the
business of the Wardrobe place, that he shall have the reversion if he
will take it out by giving a covenant that if Mr. Young' dyes before my
father my father shall have the benefit of it for his life.  So home, and
thence by water to Deptford, and there found our Trinity Brethren come
from their election to church, where Dr. Britton made, methought, an
indifferent sermon touching the decency that we ought to observe in God's
house, the church, but yet to see how ridiculously some men will carry
themselves.  Sir W. Batten did at open table anon in the name of the whole
Society desire him to print his sermon, as if the Doctor could think that
they were fit judges of a good sermon.  Then by barge with Sir W. Batten
to Trinity House.  It seems they have with much ado carried it for Sir G.
Carteret against Captain Harrison, poor man, who by succession ought to
have been it, and most hands were for him, but only they were forced to
fright the younger Brethren by requiring them to set their hands (which is
an ill course) and then Sir G. Carteret carryed it.  The
     pamphlet was dedicated to Charles I. as "more interessed in the
     theame and subject of this compendious discourse then any other that
     I know," and "because your Majestie of all other persons within your
     owne dominions, are most dishonoured, prejudiced, and abused by
     these Healthes."]

but nobody took notice of it to him at all; but in discourse with the Doctor he did declare
himself that he ever was, and has expressed himself in all his books for mixt communion against
the Presbyterian examination. Thence after dinner by water, my Lord Sandwich and all us Tangier
men, where at the Committee busy till night with great confusion, and then by coach home, with
this content, however, that I find myself every day become more and more known, and shall one
day hope to have benefit by it. I found my wife a little better.  A little to my office, then
home to supper and to bed.

7th.  Up and to the office (having by my going by water without any thing upon my legs yesterday
got some pain upon me again), where all the morning.  At noon a little to the 'Change, and
thence home to dinner, my wife being ill still in bed.  Thence to the office, where busy all
the afternoon till 9 at night, and so home to my wife, to supper, and to bed.

8th.  All day before dinner with Creed, talking of many things, among others, of my Lord's
going so often to Chelsy, and he, without my speaking much, do tell me that his daughters do
perceive all, and do hate the place, and the young woman there, Mrs. Betty Becke; for my Lord,
who sent them thither only for a disguise for his going thither, will come under pretence to
see them, and pack them out of doors to the Parke, and stay behind with her; but now the young
ladies are gone to their mother to Kensington.  To dinner, and after dinner till 10 at night
in my study writing of my old broken office notes in shorthand all in one book, till my eyes
did ake ready to drop out.  So home to supper and to bed.

9th.  Up and at my office all the morning.  At noon dined at home, Mr. Hunt and his kinswoman
(wife in the country), after dinner I to the office, where we sat all the afternoon.  Then
at night by coach to attend the Duke of Albemarle about the Tangier ship.  Coming back my wife
spied me going home by coach from Mr. Hunt's, with whom she hath gained much in discourse to-day
concerning W. Howe's discourse of me to him.  That he was the man that got me to be secretary
to my Lord; and all that I have thereby, and that for all this I never did give him 6d. in
my life. Which makes me wonder that this rogue dare talk after this manner, and I think all
the world is grown false.  But I hope I shall make good use of it.  So home to supper and to
bed, my eyes aching mightily since last night.

10th.  Up and by water to White Hall, and there to a Committee of Tangier, and had occasion
to see how my Lord Ashworth--[Lord Ashworth is probably a miswriting for Lord Ashley (afterwards
Earl of Shaftesbury).]--deports himself, which is very fine indeed, and it joys my heart to
see that there is any body looks so near into the King's business as I perceive he do in this
business of my Lord Peterborough's accounts. Thence into the Parke, and met and walked with
Captain Sylas Taylor, my old acquaintance while I was of the Exchequer, and Dr. Whore, talking
of musique, and particularly of Mr. Berckenshaw's way, which Taylor magnifies mightily, and
perhaps but what it deserves, but not so easily to be understood as he and others make of it.
Thence home by water, and after dinner abroad to buy several things, as a map, and powder,
and other small things, and so home to my office, and in the evening with Captain Taylor by
water to our Tangier ship, and so home, well pleased, having received L26 profit to-day of
my bargain for this ship, which comforts me mightily, though I confess my heart, what with
my being out of order as to my health, and the fear I have of the money my Lord oweth me and
I stand indebted to him in, is much cast down of late.  In the evening home to supper and to bed.

11th.  Up and to the office, where we sat all the morning, where some discourse arose from
Sir G. Carteret and Mr. Coventry, which gives me occasion to think that something like a war
is expected now indeed, though upon the 'Change afterwards I hear too that an Embassador is
landed from Holland, and one from their East India Company, to treat with ours about the wrongs
we pretend to.  Then to my office vexed with Captain Taylor about the delay of carrying down
the ship hired by me for Tangier, and late about that and other things at the office.  So home
to supper and to bed.

12th (Lord's day).  All the morning in my chamber consulting my lesson of ship building, and
at noon Mr. Creed by appointment came and dined with us, and sat talking all the afternoon
till, about church time, my wife and I began our great dispute about going to Griffin's child's
christening, where I was to have been godfather, but Sir J. Minnes refusing, he wanted an equal
for me and my Lady Batten, and so sought for other.  Then the question was whether my wife
should go, and she having dressed herself on purpose, was very angry, and began to talk openly
of my keeping her within doors before Creed, which vexed me to the guts, but I had the discretion
to keep myself without passion, and so resolved at last not to go, but to go down by water,
which we did by H. Russell--[a waterman]--to the Half-way house, and there eat and drank, and
upon a very small occasion had a difference again broke out, where without any the least cause
she had the cunning to cry a great while, and talk and blubber, which made me mighty angry
in mind, but said nothing to provoke her because Creed was there, but walked home, being troubled
in my mind also about the knavery and neglect of Captain Fudge and Taylor, who were to have
had their ship for Tangier ready by Thursday last, and now the men by a mistake are come on
board, and not any master or man or boy of the ship's company on board with them when we came
by her side this afternoon, and also received a letter from Mr. Coventry this day in complaint
of it.  We came home, and after supper Creed went home, and I to bed.  My wife made great means
to be friends, coming to my bedside and doing all things to please me, and at last I could
not hold out, but seemed pleased, and so parted, and I with much ado to sleep, but was easily
wakened by extraordinary great rain, and my mind troubled the more to think what the soldiers
would do on board tonight in all this weather.

13th.  So up at 5 o'clock, and with Captain Taylor on board her at Deptford, and found all
out of order, only the soldiers civil, and Sir Arthur Bassett a civil person.  I rated at Captain
Taylor, whom, contrary to my expectation, I found a lying and a very stupid blundering fellow,
good for nothing, and yet we talk of him in the Navy as if he had been an excellent officer,
but I find him a lying knave, and of no judgment or dispatch at all.  After finding the condition
of the ship, no master, not above four men, and many ship's provisions, sayls, and other things
wanting, I went back and called upon Fudge, whom I found like a lying rogue unready to go on
board, but I did so jeer him that I made him get every thing ready, and left Taylor and H.
Russell to quicken him, and so away and I by water on to White Hall, where I met his Royal
Highnesse at a Tangier Committee about this very thing, and did there satisfy him how things
are, at which all was pacified without any trouble, and I hope may end well, but I confess
I am at a real trouble for fear the rogue should not do his work, and I come to shame and losse
of the money I did hope justly to have got by it.  Thence walked with Mr. Coventry to St. James's,
and there spent by his desire the whole morning reading of some old Navy books given him of
old Sir John Cooke's by the Archbishop of Canterbury that now is; wherein the order that was
observed in the Navy then, above what it is now, is very observable, and fine things we did
observe in our reading.  Anon to dinner, after dinner to discourse of the business of the Dutch
warr, wherein he tells me the Dutch do in every particular, which are but few and small things
that we can demand of them, whatever cry we unjustly make, do seem to offer at an accommodation,
for they do owne that it is not for their profit to have warr with England.  We did also talk
of a History of the Navy of England, how fit it were to be writ; and he did say that it hath
been in his mind to propose to me the writing of the History of the late Dutch warr, which
I am glad to hear, it being a thing I much desire, and sorts mightily with my genius; and,
if well done, may recommend me much.  So he says he will get me an order for making of searches
to all records, &c., in order thereto, and I shall take great delight in doing of it.  Thence
by water down to the Tower, and thither sent for Mr. Creed to my house, where he promised to
be, and he and I down to the ship, and find all things in pretty good order, and I hope will
end to my mind.  Thence having a gaily down to Greenwich, and there saw the King's works, which
are great, a-doing there, and so to the Cherry Garden, and so carried some cherries home, and
after supper to bed, my wife lying with me, which from my not being thoroughly well, nor she,
we have not done above once these two or three weeks.

14th.  Up and to the office, where we sat all the morning, and had great conflict about the
flags again, and am vexed methought to see my Lord Berkely not satisfied with what I said,
but however I stop the King's being abused by the flag makers for the present.  I do not know
how it may end, but I will do my best to preserve it.  So home to dinner, and after dinner
by coach to Kensington.  In the way overtaking Mr. Laxton, the apothecary, with his wife and
daughters, very fine young lasses, in a coach; and so both of us to my Lady Sandwich, who hath
lain this fortnight here at Deane Hodges's.  Much company came hither to-day, my Lady Carteret,
&c., Sir William Wheeler and his lady, and, above all, Mr. Becke, of Chelsy, and wife and daughter,
my Lord's mistress, and one that hath not one good feature in her face, and yet is a fine lady,
of a fine taille, and very well carriaged, and mighty discreet.  I took all the occasion I
could to discourse with the young ladies in her company to give occasion to her to talk, which
now and then she did, and that mighty finely, and is, I perceive, a woman of such an ayre,
as I wonder the less at my Lord's favour to her, and I dare warrant him she hath brains enough
to entangle him.  Two or three houres we were in her company, going into Sir H. Finche's garden,
and seeing the fountayne, and singing there with the ladies, and a mighty fine cool place it
is, with a great laver of water in the middle and the bravest place for musique I ever heard.
After much mirthe, discoursing to the ladies in defence of the city against the country or
court, and giving them occasion to invite themselves to-morrow to me to dinner, to my venison
pasty, I got their mother's leave, and so good night, very well pleased with my day's work,
and, above all, that I have seen my Lord's mistresse.  So home to supper, and a little at my
office, and to bed.

15th.  Up and by appointment with Captain Witham (the Captain that brought the newes of the
disaster at Tangier, where my Lord Tiviott was slain) and Mr. Tooker to Beares Quay, and there
saw and more afterward at the several grannarys several parcels of oates, and strange it is
to hear how it will heat itself if laid up green and not often turned.  We came not to any
agreement, but did cheapen several parcels, and thence away, promising to send again to them.
So to the Victualling office, and then home.  And in our garden I got Captain Witham to tell
me the whole story of my Lord Tiviott's misfortune; for he was upon the guard with his horse
neare the towne, when at a distance he saw the enemy appear upon a hill, a mile and a half
off, and made up to them, and with much ado escaped himself; but what became of my Lord he
neither knows nor thinks that any body but the enemy can tell.  Our losse was about four hundred.
But he tells me that the greater wonder is that my Lord Tiviott met no sooner with such a disaster;
for every day he did commit himself to more probable danger than this, for now he had the assurance
of all his scouts that there was no enemy thereabouts; whereas he used every day to go out
with two or three with him, to make his discoveries, in greater danger, and yet the man that
could not endure to have anybody else to go a step out of order to endanger himself.  He concludes
him to be the man of the hardest fate to lose so much honour at one blow that ever was.  So
put them into doors; and leaving them with the mayds, bade them good night, and then into the
towne, Creed and I, it being about twelve o'clock and past; and to several houses, inns, but
could get no lodging, all being in bed.  At the last house, at last, we found some people drinking
and roaring; and there got in, and after drinking, got an ill bed, where

16th.  I lay in my drawers and stockings and wastecoate till five of the clock, and so up;
and being well pleased with our frolique, walked to Knightsbridge, and there eat a messe of
creame, and so to St. James's, and there walked a little, and so I to White Hall, and took
coach, and found my wife well got home last night, and now in bed.  So I to the office, where
all the morning, and at noon to the 'Change, so home and to my office, where Mr. Ackworth came
to me (though he knows himself and I know him to be a very knave), yet he came to me to discover
the knavery of other people like the most honest man in the world.  However, good use I shall
make of his discourse, for in this he is much in the right.  He being gone I to the 'Change,
Mr. Creed with me, after we had been by water to see a vessell we have hired to carry more
soldiers to Tangier, and also visited a rope ground, wherein I learnt several useful things.
Home after I had spoke with my cozen Richard Pepys upon the 'Change, about supplying us with
bewpers from Norwich, which I should be glad of, if cheap.  So home to supper and bed.

17th.  Up, and to my office, where I dispatched much business, and then down by water to Woolwich
to make a discovery of a cheate providing for us in the working of some of our own ground Tows
into new cordage, to be sold to us for Riga cordage.  Thence to Mr. Falconer's, where I met
Sir W. Batten and Lady, and Captain Tinker, and there dined with them, and so to the Dockyarde
and to Deptford by water, and there very long informing myself in the business of flags and
bewpers and other things, and so home late, being weary, and full of good information to-day,
but I perceive the corruptions of the Navy are of so many kinds that it is endless to look
after them, especially while such a one as Sir W. Batten discourages every man that is honest.
So home to my office, there very late, and then to supper and to bed mightily troubled in my
mind to hear how Sir W. Batten and Sir J. Minnes do labour all they can to abuse or enable
others to abuse the King.

18th.  From morning till 11 at night (only a little at dinner at home) at my office very busy,
setting many businesses in order to my great trouble, but great content in the end.  So home
to supper and to bed. Strange to see how pert Sir W. Pen is to-day newly come from Portsmouth
with his head full of great reports of his service and the state of the ships there. When that
is over he will be just as another man again or worse.  But I wonder whence Mr. Coventry should
take all this care for him, to send for him up only to look after his Irish business with my
Lord Ormond and to get the Duke's leave for him to come with so much officiousness, when I
am sure he knows him as well as I do as to his little service he do.

19th (Lord's day).  Up, and all the morning and afternoon (only at dinner at home) at my office
doing many businesses for want of time on the week days.  In the afternoon the greatest shower
of rain of a sudden and the greatest and most continued thunder that ever I heard I think in
my life. In the evening home to my wife, and there talked seriously of several of our family
concernments, and among others of bringing Pall out of the country to us here to try to put
her off, which I am very desirous, and my wife also of.  So to supper, prayers, which I have
of late too much omitted.  So to bed.

20th.  It having been a very cold night last night I had got some cold, and so in pain by wind,
and a sure precursor of pain is sudden letting off farts, and when that stops, then my passages
stop and my pain begins.  Thence to Westminster Hall, it being term time, meeting Mr. Dickering,
he tells me how my Lady last week went to see Mrs. Becke, the mother; and by and by the daughter
came in, but that my Lady do say herself, as he says, that she knew not for what reason, for
she never knew they had a daughter, which I do not believe. She was troubled, and her heart
did rise as soon as she appeared, and seems the most ugly woman that ever she saw.  This if
true were strange, but I believe it is not.  It seems Sir H. Bennet did look after her.  My
Lady very pleasant.  After dinner came in Sir Thomas Crew and Mr. Sidney, lately come from
France, who is growne a little, and a pretty youth he is; but not so improved as they did give
him out to be, but like a child still. But yet I can perceive he hath good parts and good inclinations.
Thence with Creed, who dined here, to Westminster to find out Mr. Hawly, and did, but he did
not accept of my offer of his being steward to my Lord at sea.  Thence alone to several places
about my law businesses, and with good success; at last I to Mr. Townsend at the Wardrobe,
and received kind words from him to be true to me against Captain Ferrers his endeavours to
get the place from my father as my Lord hath promised him. Here met Will. Howe, and he went
forth with me; and by water back to White Hall to wait on my Lord, who is come back from Hinchinbroke;
where he has been about 4 or 5 days.  But I was never more vexed to see how an over-officious
visitt is received, for he received me with as little concernment as in the middle of his discontent,
and a fool I am to be of so servile a humour, and vexed with that consideration I took coach
home, and could not get it off my mind all night.  To supper and to bed, my wife finding fault
with Besse for her calling upon Jane that lived with us, and there heard Mrs. Harper and her
talk ill of us and not told us of it.  With which I was also vexed, and told her soundly of
it till she cried, poor wench, and I hope without dissimulation, and yet I cannot tell; however,
I was glad to see in what manner she received it, and so to sleep.

21st.  Being weary yesterday with walking I sleep long, and at last up and to the office, where
all the morning.  At home to dinner, Mr. Deane with me.  After dinner I to White Hall (setting
down my wife by the way) to a Committee of Tangier, where the Duke of Yorke, I perceive, do
attend the business very well, much better than any man there or most of them, and my [mind]
eased of some trouble I lay under for fear of his thinking ill of me from the bad successe
in the setting forth of these crew men to Tangier.  Thence with Mr. Creed, and walked in the
Parke, and so to the New Exchange, meeting Mr. Moore, and he with us.  I shewed him no friendly
look, but he took no notice to me of the Wardrobe business, which vexes me.  I perceive by
him my Lord's business of his family and estate goes very ill, and runs in debt mightily. 
I would to God I were clear of it, both as to my owne money and the bond of L1000, which I
stand debtor for him in, to my cozen Thomas Pepys.  Thence by coach home and to my office a
little, and so to supper and to bed.

22nd.  Up and I found Mr. Creed below, who staid with me a while, and then I to business all
the morning.  At noon to the 'Change and Coffee-house, where great talke of the Dutch preparing
of sixty sayle of ships. The plague grows mightily among them, both at sea and land.  From
the 'Change to dinner to Trinity House with Sir W. Rider and Cutler, where a very good dinner.
Here Sir G. Ascue dined also, who I perceive desires to make himself known among the seamen.
Thence home, there coming to me my Lord Peterborough's Sollicitor with a letter from him to
desire present dispatch in his business of freight, and promises me L50, which is good newes,
and I hope to do his business readily for him.  This much rejoiced me.  All the afternoon at
his business, and late at night comes the Sollicitor again, and I with him at 9 o'clock to
Mr. Povy's, and there acquainted him with the business.  The money he won't pay without warrant,
but that will be got done in a few days.  So home by coach and to bed.

23rd.  Up, and to the office, and there we sat all the morning.  So to the 'Change, and then
home to dinner and to my office, where till 10 at night very busy, and so home to supper and
to bed.  My cozen, Thomas Pepys, was with me yesterday and I took occasion to speak to him
about the bond I stand bound for my Lord Sandwich to him in L1000.  I did very plainly, obliging
him to secrecy, tell him how the matter stands, yet with all duty to my Lord my resolution
to be bound for whatever he desires me for him, yet that I would be glad he had any other security.
I perceive by Mr. Moore today that he hath been with my Lord, and my Lord how he takes it I
know not, but he is looking after other security and I am mighty glad of it.  But it was pretty
this afternoon to hear W. Howe mince the matter, and say that he do believe that my Lord is
in debt L2000 or L3000, and then corrected himself and said, No, not so, but I am afraid he
is in debt L1000.  I pray God gets me well rid of his Lordship as to his debt, and I care not.

24th.  Up and out with Captain Witham in several places again to look for oats for Tangier,
and among other places to the City granarys, where it seems every company have their granary
and obliged to keep such a quantity of corne always there or at a time of scarcity to issue
so much at so much a bushell: and a fine thing it is to see their stores of all sorts, for
piles for the bridge, and for pipes, a thing I never saw before.

     [From the commencement of the reign of Henry VIII., or perhaps
     earlier, it was the custom of the City of London to provide against
     scarcity, by requiring each of the chartered Companies to keep in
     store a certain quantity of corn, which was to be renewed from time
     to time, and when required for that purpose, produced in the market
     for sale, at such times and prices, and in such quantities, as the
     Lord Mayor or Common Council should direct.  See the report of a
     case in the Court of Chancery, "Attorney-General v. Haberdashers'
     Company" (Mylne and Keens "Reports," vol. i., p. 420).--B.]

Thence to the office, and there busy all the morning.  At noon to my uncle Wight's, and there
dined, my wife being there all the morning.  Thence with him to the Parke, and there met the
Queene coming from Chappell, with her Mayds of Honour, all in silver-lace gowns again: which
is new to me, and that which I did not think would have been brought up again. Thence home,
calling in many places and doing abundance of errands to my great content, and at night weary
home, where Mr. Creed waited for me, and he and I walked in the garden, where he told me he
is now in a hurry fitting himself for sea, and that it remains that he deals as an ingenuous
man with me in the business I wot of, which he will do before he goes. But I perceive he will
have me do many good turns for him first, both as to his bills coming to him in this office,
and also in his absence at the Committee of Tangier, which I promise, and as he acquits himself
to me I will willingly do.  I would I knew the worst of it, what it is he intends, that so
I may either quit my hands of him or continue my kindness still to him.

25th.  We staid late, and he lay with me all night and rose very merry talking, and excellent
company he is, that is the truth of it, and a most cunning man.  He being gone I to the office,
where we sat all the morning. At noon to dinner, and then to my office busy, and by and by
home with Mr. Deane to a lesson upon raising a Bend of Timbers,

     [This seems to refer to knee timber, of which there was not a
     sufficient supply.  A proposal was made to produce this bent wood
     artificially: "June 22, 1664.  Sir William Petty intimated that it
     seemed by the scarcity and greater rate of knee timber that nature
     did not furnish crooked wood enough for building: wherefore he
     thought it would be fit to raise by art, so much of it in
     proportion, as to reduce it to an equal rate with strait timber"
     (Birch's "History of the Royal Society,")]

and he being gone I to the office, and there came Captain Taylor, and he and I home, and I
have done all very well with him as to the business of the last trouble, so that come what
will come my name will be clear of any false dealing with him.  So to my office again late,
and then to bed.

26th (Lord's day).  Up, and Sir J. Minnes set me down at my Lord Sandwich's, where I waited
till his coming down, when he came, too, could find little to say to me but only a general
question or two, and so good-bye.  He being gone, I went home, a little troubled to see he
minds me no more, and with Creed called at several churches, which, God knows, are supplied
with very young men, and the churches very empty; so home and at our owne church looked in,
and there heard one preach whom Sir W. Pen brought, which he desired us yesterday to hear,
that had been his chaplin in Ireland, a very silly fellow.  So home and to dinner, and after
dinner a frolique took us, we would go this afternoon to the Hope; so my wife dressed herself,
and, with good victuals and drink, we took boat presently and the tide with us got down, but
it was night, and the tide spent by the time we got to Gravesend; so there we stopped, but
went not on shore, only Creed, to get some cherries,

     [Pliny tells us that cherries were introduced into Britain by the
     Romans, and Lydgate alludes to them as sold in the London streets.
     Richard Haines, fruiterer to Henry VI IL, imported a number of
     cherry trees from Flanders, and planted them at Tenham, in Kent.
     Hence the fame of the Kentish cherries.]

and send a letter to the Hope, where the Fleete lies.  And so, it being rainy, and thundering
mightily, and lightning, we returned.  By and by the evening turned mighty clear and moonshine;
we got with great pleasure home, about twelve o'clock, which did much please us, Creed telling
pretty stories in the boat.  He lay with me all night.

27th.  Up, and he and I walked to Paul's Church yard, and there saw Sir Harry Spillman's book,
and I bespoke it and others, and thence we took coach, and he to my Lord's and I to St. James's,
where we did our usual business, and thence I home and dined, and then by water to Woolwich,
and there spent the afternoon till night under pretence of buying Captain Blackman's house
and grounds, and viewing the ground took notice of Clothiers' cordage with which he, I believe,
thinks to cheat the King. That being done I by water home, it being night first, and there
I find our new mayd Jane come, a cook mayd.  So to bed.

28th.  Up, and this day put on a half shirt first this summer, it being very hot; and yet so
ill-tempered I am grown, that I am afeard I shall catch cold, while all the world is ready
to melt away.  To the office all the morning, at noon to dinner at home, then to my office
till the evening, then out about several businesses and then by appointment to the 'Change,
and thence with my uncle Wight to the Mum house, and there drinking, he do complain of his
wife most cruel as the most troublesome woman in the world, and how she will have her will,
saying she brought him a portion and God knows what.  By which, with many instances more, I
perceive they do live a sad life together.  Thence to the Mitre and there comes Dr. Burnett
to us and Mr. Maes, but the meeting was chiefly to bring the Doctor and me together, and there
I began to have his advice about my disease, and then invited him to my house: and I am resolved
to put myself into his hands.  Here very late, but I drank nothing, nor will, though he do
advise me to take care of cold drinks.  So home and to bed.

29th.  Up, and Mr. Shepley came to me, who is lately come to town; among other things I hear
by him how the children are sent for away from my father's, but he says without any great discontent.
I am troubled there should be this occasion of difference, and yet I am glad they are gone,
lest it should have come to worse.  He tells me how my brave dogg I did give him, going out
betimes one morning to Huntington, was set upon by five other doggs, and worried to pieces,
of which I am a little, and he the most sorry I ever saw man for such a thing.  Forth with
him and walked a good way talking, then parted and I to the Temple, and to my cozen Roger Pepys,
and thence by water to Westminster to see Dean Honiwood, whom I had not visited a great while.
He is a good-natured, but a very weak man, yet a Dean, and a man in great esteem.  Thence walked
to my Lord Sandwich's, and there dined, my Lord there.  He was pleasant enough at table with
me, but yet without any discourse of business, or any regard to me when dinner was over, but
fell to cards, and my Lady and I sat two hours alone, talking of the condition of her family's
being greatly in debt, and many children now coming up to provide for.  I did give her my sense
very plain of it, which she took well and carried further than myself, to the bemoaning their
condition, and remembering how finely things were ordered about six years ago, when I lived
there and my Lord at sea every year. Thence home, doing several errands by the way.  So to
my office, and there till late at night, Mr. Comander coming to me for me to sign and seal
the new draft of my will, which I did do, I having altered something upon the death of my brother
Tom.  So home to supper and to bed.

30th.  Up, and to the office, where we sat all the morning.  At noon home to dinner, Mr. Wayth
with me, and by and by comes in Mr. Falconer and his wife and dined with us, the first time
she was ever here.  We had a pretty good dinner, very merry in discourse, sat after dinner
an hour or two, then down by water to Deptford and Woolwich about getting of some business
done which I was bound to by my oath this month, and though in some things I have not come
to the height of my vow of doing all my business in paying all my petty debts and receipt of
all my petty monies due to me, yet I bless God I am not conscious of any neglect in me that
they are not done, having not minded my pleasure at all, and so being resolved to take no manner
of pleasure till it be done, I doubt not God will forgive me for not forfeiting the L10 promised.
Walked back from Woolwich to Greenwich all alone, save a man that had a cudgell in his hand,
and, though he told me he laboured in the King's yarde, and many other good arguments that
he is an honest man, yet, God forgive me!  I did doubt he might knock me on the head behind
with his club.  But I got safe home.  Then to the making up my month's accounts, and find myself
still a gainer and rose to L951, for which God be blessed.  I end the month with my mind full
of business and some sorrow that I have not exactly performed all my vowes, though my not doing
is not my fault, and shall be made good out of my first leisure. Great doubts yet whether the
Dutch wary go on or no.  The Fleet ready in the Hope, of twelve sayle. The King and Queenes
go on board, they say, on Saturday next.  Young children of my Lord Sandwich gone with their
mayds from my mother's, which troubles me, it being, I hear from Mr. Shepley, with great discontent,
saying, that though they buy good meate, yet can never have it before it stinks, which I am
ashamed of.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                                 JULY
                                 1664

July 1st.  Up and within all the morning, first bringing down my Tryangle to my chamber below,
having a new frame made proper for it to stand on. By and by comes Dr. Burnett, who assures
me that I have an ulcer either in the kidneys or bladder, for my water, which he saw yesterday,
he is sure the sediment is not slime gathered by heat, but is a direct pusse. He did write
me down some direction what to do for it, but not with the satisfaction I expected.

                       Dr. Burnett's advice to mee.

                 The Originall is fyled among my letters.

     Take of ye Rootes of Marsh-Mallows foure ounces, of Cumfry, of
     Liquorish, of each two ounces, of ye Mowers of St. John's Wort two
     Handsfull, of ye Leaves of Plantan, of Alehoofe, of each three
     handfulls, of Selfeheale, of Red Roses, of each one Handfull, of
     Cynament, of Nutmegg, of each halfe an ounce.  Beate them well, then
     powre upon them one Quart of old Rhenish wine, and about Six houres
     after strayne it and clarify it with ye white of an Egge, and with a
     sufficient quantity of sugar, boyle it to ye consistence of a Syrrup
     and reserve it for use.

     Dissolve one spoonefull of this Syrrup in every draught of Ale or
     beere you drink.

     Morning and evening swallow ye quantity of an hazle-nutt of Cyprus
     Terebintine.

     If you are bound or have a fit of ye Stone eate an ounce of Cassia
     new drawne, from ye poynt of a knife.

     Old Canary or Malaga wine you may drinke to three or 4 glasses, but
     noe new wine, and what wine you drinke, lett it bee at meales.-[From
     a slip of paper inserted in the Diary at this place.]

I did give him a piece, with good hopes, however, that his advice will be of use to me, though
it is strange that Mr. Hollyard should never say one word of this ulcer in all his life to
me.  He being gone, I to the 'Change, and thence home to dinner, and so to my office, busy
till the evening, and then by agreement came Mr. Hill and Andrews and one Cheswicke, a maister
who plays very well upon the Spinette, and we sat singing Psalms till 9 at night, and so broke
up with great pleasure, and very good company it is, and I hope I shall now and then have their
company.  They being gone, I to my office till towards twelve o'clock, and then home and to
bed.  Upon the 'Change, this day, I saw how uncertain the temper of the people is, that, from
our discharging of about 200 that lay idle, having nothing to do, upon some of our ships, which
were ordered to be fitted for service, and their works are now done, the towne do talk that
the King discharges all his men, 200 yesterday and 800 to-day, and that now he hath got L100,000
in his hand, he values not a Dutch warr. But I undeceived a great many, telling them how it is.

2nd.  Up and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon to the 'Change, and there, which
is strange, I could meet with nobody that I could invite home to my venison pasty, but only
Mr. Alsopp and Mr. Lanyon, whom I invited last night, and a friend they brought along with
them.  So home and with our venison pasty we had other good meat and good discourse. After
dinner sat close to discourse about our business of the victualling of the garrison of Tangier,
taking their prices of all provisions, and I do hope to order it so that they and I also may
get something by it, which do much please me, for I hope I may get nobly and honestly with
profit to the King.  They being gone came Sir W. Warren, and he and I discoursed long about
the business of masts, and then in the evening to my office, where late writing letters, and
then home to look over some Brampton papers, which I am under an oathe to dispatch before I
spend one half houre in any pleasure or go to bed before 12 o'clock, to which, by the grace
of God, I will be true.  Then to bed.  When I came home I found that to-morrow being Sunday
I should gain nothing by doing it to-night, and to-morrow I can do it very well and better
than to-night.  I went to bed before my time, but with a resolution of doing the thing to better
purpose to-morrow.

3rd (Lord's day).  Up and ready, and all the morning in my chamber looking over and settling
some Brampton businesses.  At noon to dinner, where the remains of yesterday's venison and
a couple of brave green geese, which we are fain to eat alone, because they will not keepe,
which troubled us. After dinner I close to my business, and before the evening did end it with
great content, and my mind eased by it.  Then up and spent the evening walking with my wife
talking, and it thundering and lightning all the evening, and this yeare have had the most
of thunder and lightning they say of any in man's memory, and so it is, it seems, in France
and everywhere else.  So to prayers and to bed.

4th.  Up, and many people with me about business, and then out to several places, and so at
noon to my Lord Crew's, and there dined and very much made of there by him.  He offered me
the selling of some land of his in Cambridgeshire, a purchase of about L1000, and if I can
compass it I will. After dinner I walked homeward, still doing business by the way, and at
home find my wife this day of her owne accord to have lain out 25s. upon a pair of pendantes
for her eares, which did vex me and brought both me and her to very high and very foule words
from her to me, such as trouble me to think she should have in her mouth, and reflecting upon
our old differences, which I hate to have remembered.  I vowed to breake them, or that she
should go and get what she could for them again.  I went with that resolution out of doors;
the poor wretch afterwards in a little while did send out to change them for her money again.
I followed Besse her messenger at the 'Change, and there did consult and sent her back; I would
not have them changed, being satisfied that she yielded. So went home, and friends again as
to that business; but the words I could not get out of my mind, and so went to bed at night
discontented, and she came to bed to me, but all would not make me friends, but sleep and rise
in the morning angry.  This day the King and the Queene went to visit my Lord Sandwich and
the fleete, going forth in the Hope.

     ["Their Majesties were treated at Tilbury Hope by the Earl of
     Sandwich, returning the same day, abundantly satisfied both with the
     dutiful respects of that honourable person and with the excellent
     condition of all matters committed to his charge" ("The Newes," July
     7th, 1664).--B.]

5th.  Up and to the office, where all the morning.  At noon to the 'Change a little, then with
W. Howe home and dined.  So after dinner to my office, and there busy till late at night, having
had among other things much discourse with young Gregory about the Chest business, wherein
Sir W. Batten is so great a knave, and also with Alsop and Lanyon about the Tangier victualling,
wherein I hope to get something for myself.  Late home to supper and to bed, being full of
thoughts of a sudden resolution this day taken upon the 'Change of going down to-morrow to
the Hope.

6th.  Up very betimes, and my wife also, and got us ready; and about eight o'clock, having
got some bottles of wine and beer and neat's tongues, we went to our barge at the Towre, where
Mr. Pierce and his wife, and a kinswoman and his sister, and Mrs. Clerke and her sister and
cozen were to expect us; and so set out for the Hope, all the way down playing at cards and
other sports, spending our time pretty merry.  Come to the Hope about one and there showed
them all the ships, and had a collacion of anchovies, gammon, &c., and after an houre's stay
or more, embarked again for home; and so to cards and other sports till we came to Greenwich,
and there Mrs. Clerke and my wife and I on shore to an alehouse, for them to do their business,
and so to the barge again, having shown them the King's pleasure boat; and so home to the Bridge,
bringing night home with us; and it rained hard, but we got them on foot to the Beare, and
there put them into a boat, and I back to my wife in the barge, and so to the Tower Wharf and
home, being very well pleased today with the company, especially Mrs. Pierce, who continues
her complexion as well as ever, and hath, at this day, I think, the best complexion that ever
I saw on any woman, young or old, or child either, all days of my life.  Also Mrs. Clerke's
kinswoman sings very prettily, but is very confident in it; Mrs. Clerke herself witty, but
spoils all in being so conceited and making so great a flutter with a few fine clothes and
some bad tawdry things worne with them.  But the charge of the barge lies heavy upon me, which
troubles me, but it is but once, and I may make Pierce do me some courtesy as great.  Being
come home, I weary to bed with sitting.  The reason of Dr. Clerke's not being here was the
King's being sicke last night and let blood, and so he durst not come away to-day.

7th.  Up, and this day begun, the first day this year, to put off my linnen waistcoat, but
it happening to be a cool day I was afraid of taking cold, which troubles me, and is the greatest
pain I have in the world to think of my bad temper of my health.  At the office all the morning.
Dined at home, to my office to prepare some things against a Committee of Tangier this afternoon.
So to White Hall, and there found the Duke and twenty more reading their commission (of which
I am, and was also sent to, to come) for the Royall Fishery, which is very large, and a very
serious charter it is; but the company generally so ill fitted for so serious a worke that
I do much fear it will come to little.  That being done, and not being able to do any thing
for lacke of an oathe for the Governor and Assistants to take, we rose.  Then our Committee
for the Tangier victualling met and did a little, and so up, and I and Mr. Coventry walked
in the garden half an hour, talking of the business of our masts, and thence away and with
Creed walked half an hour or more in the Park, and thence to the New Exchange to drink some
creame, but missed it and so parted, and I home, calling by the way for my new bookes, viz.,
Sir H. Spillman's "Whole Glossary," "Scapula's Lexicon," and Shakespeare's plays, which I have
got money out of my stationer's bills to pay for.  So home and to my office a while, and then
home and to bed, finding myself pretty well for all my waistecoate being put off to-day. The
king is pretty well to-day, though let blood the night before yesterday.

8th.  Up and called out by my Lord Peterborough's gentleman to Mr. Povy's to discourse about
getting of his money, wherein I am concerned in hopes of the L50 my Lord hath promised me,
but I dare not reckon myself sure of it till I have it in my main,--[hand.]--for these Lords
are hard to be trusted.  Though I well deserve it.  I staid at Povy's for his coming in, and
there looked over his stables and every thing, but notwithstanding all the times I have been
there I do yet find many fine things to look on. Thence to White Hall a little, to hear how
the King do, he not having been well these three days.  I find that he is pretty well again.
So to the 'Change and home to dinner, and so to my office till 5 o'clock, and then came Mr.
Hill and Andrews, and we sung an houre or two.  Then broke up and Mr. Alsop and his company
came and consulted about our Tangier victualling and brought it to a good head.  So they parted,
and I to supper and to bed.

9th.  Up, and at the office all the morning.  In the afternoon by coach with Sir J. Minnes
to White Hall, and there to a Committee for Fishing; but the first thing was swearing to be
true to the Company, and we were all sworne; but a great dispute we had, which, methought,
is very ominous to the Company; some, that we should swear to be true to the best of our power,
and others to the best of our understanding; and carried in the last, though in that we are
the least able to serve the Company, because we would not be obliged to attend the business
when we can, but when we list.  This consideration did displease me, but it was voted and so
went. We did nothing else, but broke up till a Committee of Guinny was set and ended, and then
met again for Tangier, and there I did my business about my Lord Peterborough's order and my
own for my expenses for the garrison lately.  So home, by the way calling for my Chaucer and
other books, and that is well done to my mind, which pleased me well.  So to my office till
late writing letters, and so home to my wife to supper and bed, where we have not lain together
because of the heat of the weather a good while, but now against her going into the country.

10th (Lord's day).  Up and by water, towards noon, to Somersett House, and walked to my Lord
Sandwich's, and there dined with my Lady and the children.  And after some ordinary discourse
with my Lady, after dinner took our leaves and my wife hers, in order to her going to the country
to-morrow.  But my Lord took not occasion to speak one word of my father or mother about the
children at all, which I wonder at, and begin I will not.  Here my Lady showed us my Lady Castlemayne's
picture, finely done; given my Lord; and a most beautiful picture it is.  Thence with my Lady
Jemimah and Mr. Sidney to St. Gyles's Church, and there heard a long, poore sermon.  Thence
set them down and in their coach to Kate Joyce's christening, where much company, good service
of sweetmeates; and after an houre's stay, left them, and in my Lord's coach--his noble, rich
coach--home, and there my wife fell to putting things in order against her going to-morrow,
and I to read, and so to bed, where I not well, and so had no pleasure at all with my poor wife.

11th.  But betimes up this morning, and, getting ready, we by coach to Holborne, where, at
nine o'clock, they set out, and I and my man Will on horseback, by my wife, to Barnett; a very
pleasant day; and there dined with her company, which was very good; a pretty gentlewoman with
her, that goes but to Huntington, and a neighbour to us in towne.  Here we staid two hours
and then parted for all together, and my poor wife I shall soon want I am sure.  Thence I and
Will to see the Wells, half a mile off,

     [The mineral springs at Barnet Common, nearly a mile to the west of
     High Barnet.  The discovery of the wells was announced in the
     "Perfect Diurnall" of June 5th, 1652, and Fuller, writing in 1662,
     says that there are hopes that the waters may "save as many lives as
     were lost in the fatal battle at Barnet" ("Worthies," Herts).  A
     pamphlet on "The Barnet Well Water" was published by the Rev. W. M.
     Trinder, M.D., as late as the year 1800, but in 1840 the old well-
     house was pulled down.]

and there I drank three glasses, and went and walked and came back and drunk two more; the
woman would have had me drink three more; but I could not, my belly being full, but this wrought
very well, and so we rode home, round by Kingsland, Hackney, and Mile End till we were quite
weary, and my water working at least 7 or 8 times upon the road, which pleased me well, and
so home weary, and not being very well, I betimes to bed, and there fell into a most mighty
sweat in the night, about eleven o'clock, and there, knowing what money I have in the house
and hearing a noyse, I begun to sweat worse and worse, till I melted almost to water. I rung,
and could not in half an houre make either of the wenches hear me, and this made me fear the
more, lest they might be gaga; and then I begun to think that there was some design in a stone
being flung at the window over our stayres this evening, by which the thiefes meant to try
what looking there would be after them and know our company.  These thoughts and fears I had,
and do hence apprehend the fears of all rich men that are covetous and have much money by them.
At last Jane rose, and then I understand it was only the dogg wants a lodging and so made a
noyse.  So to bed, but hardly slept, at last did, and so till morning,

12th.  And so rose, called up by my Lord Peterborough's gentleman about getting his Lord's
money to-day of Mr. Povy, wherein I took such order, that it was paid, and I had my L50 brought
me, which comforts my heart. We sat at the office all the morning, then at home.  Dined alone;
sad for want of company and not being very well, and know not how to eat alone. After dinner
down with Sir G. Carteret, Sir J. Minnes, and Sir W. Batten to view, and did like a place by
Deptford yard to lay masts in.  By and by comes Mr. Coventry, and after a little stay he and
I down to Blackwall, he having a mind to see the yarde, which we did, and fine storehouses
there are and good docks, but of no great profit to him that oweth them for ought we see.

     [For "owneth."  This sense is very common in Shakespeare.  In the
     original edition of the authorized version of the Bible we read: "So
     shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that oweth this girdle"
     (Acts xxi.  I i) Nares's Glossary.]

So home by water with him, having good discourse by the way, and so I to the office a while,
and late home to supper and to bed.

13th.  Up and to my office, at noon (after having at an alehouse hard by discoursed with one
Mr. Tyler, a neighbour, and one Captain Sanders about the discovery of some pursers that have
sold their provisions) I to my Lord Sandwich, thinking to have dined there, but they not dining
at home, I with Captain Ferrers to Mr. Barwell the King's Squire Sadler, where about this time
twelvemonths I dined before at a good venison pasty.  The like we had now, and very good company,
Mr. Tresham and others.  Thence to White Hall to the Fishery, and there did little.  So by
water home, and there met Lanyon, &c., about Tangier matters, and so late to my office, and
thence home and to bed.  Mr. Moore was with me late to desire me to come to my Lord Sandwich
tomorrow morning, which I shall, but I wonder what my business is.

14th.  My mind being doubtful what the business should be, I rose a little after four o'clock,
and abroad.  Walked to my Lord's, and nobody up, but the porter rose out of bed to me so I
back again to Fleete Streete, and there bought a little book of law; and thence, hearing a
psalm sung, I went into St. Dunstan's, and there heard prayers read, which, it seems, is done
there every morning at six o'clock; a thing I never did do at a chappell, but the College Chappell,
in all my life.  And said that I did most ungentlemanlike with him, and had justified the rogues
in cutting down a tree of his; and that I had sent the veriest Fanatique [Deane] that is in
England to mark them, on purpose to nose--[provoke]--him.  I to the office, and there sat busy
all the morning. At noon to the 'Change, and from the 'Change over with Alsopp and the others
to the Pope's Head tavern, and there staid a quarter of an hour, and concluded upon this, that
in case I got them no more than 3s. per week per man I should have of them but L150 per ann.,
but to have it without any adventure or charge, but if I got them 3s. 2d., then they would
give me L300 in the like manner.  So I directed them to draw up their tender in a line or two
against the afternoon, and to meet me at White Hall.  So with my heart light I to White Hall,
and there after understanding by a stratagem, and yet appearing wholly desirous not to understand
Mr. Gauden's price when he desired to show it me, I went down and ordered matters in our tender
so well that at the meeting by and by I was ready with Mr. Gauden's and his, both directed
him a letter to me to give the board their two tenders, but there being none but the Generall
Monk and Mr. Coventry and Povy and I, I did not think fit to expose them to view now, but put
it off till Saturday, and so with good content rose.  So I by coach home, calling at my Lord's,
but he not within.  At my office late, and so home to eat something, being almost starved for
want of eating my dinner to-day, and so to bed, my head being full of great and many businesses
of import to me.  There was the King and twenty more, I think, standing by all the while, and
a lovely creature she in this dress seemed to be.  Thence to the 'Change by coach, and so home
to dinner and then to my office.  In the evening Mr. Hill, Andrews and I to my chamber to sing,
which we did very pleasantly, and then to my office again, where very late and so home, with
my mind I bless God in good state of ease and body of health, only my head at this juncture
very full of business, how to get something.  Among others what this rogue Creed will do before
he goes to sea, for I would fain be rid of him and see what he means to do, for I will then
declare myself his firm friend or enemy.

16th.  Up in the morning, my head mightily confounded with the great deale of business I have
upon me to do.  But to the office, and there dispatched Mr. Creed's business pretty well about
his bill; but then there comes W. Howe for my Lord's bill of Imprest for L500 to carry with
him this voyage, and so I was at a loss how to carry myself in it, Creed being there, but there
being no help I delivered it to them both, and let them contend, when I perceive they did both
endeavour to have it, but W. Howe took it, and the other had the discretion to suffer it. 
But I think I cleared myself to Creed that it past not from any practice of mine.  At noon
rose and did some necessary business at the 'Change.  Thence to Trinity House to a dinner which
Sir G. Carteret makes there as Maister this year. Thence to White Hall to the Tangier Committee,
and there, above my expectation, got the business of our contract for the victualling carried
for my people, viz., Alsopp, Lanyon, and Yeabsly; and by their promise I do thereby get L300
per annum to myself, which do overjoy me; and the matter is left to me to draw up.  Mr. Lewes
was in the gallery and is mightily amazed at it, and I believe Mr. Gauden will make some stir
about it, for he wrote to Mr. Coventry to-day about it to argue why he should for the King's
convenience have it, but Mr. Coventry most justly did argue freely for them that served cheapest.
Thence walked a while with Mr. Coventry in the gallery, and first find that he is mighty cold
in his present opinion of Mr. Peter Pett for his flagging and doing things so lazily there,
and he did also surprise me with a question why Deane did not bring in their report of the
timber of Clarendon.  What he means thereby I know not, but at present put him off; nor do
I know how to steer myself: but I must think of it, and advise with my Lord Sandwich.  Thence
with Creed by coach to my Lord Sandwich's, and there I got Mr. Moore to give me my Lord's hand
for my receipt of L109 more of my money of Sir G. Carteret, so that then his debt to me will
be under L500, I think.  This do ease my mind also.  Thence carried him and W. Howe into London,
and set them down at Sir G. Carteret's to receive some money, and I home and there busy very
late, and so home to supper and to bed, with my mind in pretty good ease, my business being
in a pretty good condition every where.

17th (Lord's day).  All the morning at my office doing business there, it raining hard.  So
dined at home alone.  After dinner walked to my Lord's, and there found him and much other
guests at table at dinner, and it seems they have christened his young son to-day-called him
James.  I got a piece of cake.  I got my Lord to signe and seale my business about my selling
of Brampton land, which though not so full as I would, yet is as full as I can at present.
Walked home again, and there fell to read, and by and by comes my uncle Wight, Dr. Burnett,
and another gentleman, and talked and drank, and the Doctor showed me the manner of eating,
turpentine, which pleases me well, for it is with great ease.  So they being gone, I to supper
and to bed.

18th.  Up, and walked to my Lord's, and there took my leave of him, he seeming very friendly
to me in as serious a manner as ever in his life, and I believe he is very confident of me.
He sets out this morning for Deale.  Thence to St. James's to the Duke, and there did our usual
business.  He discourses very freely of a warr with Holland, to begin about winter, so that
I believe we shall come to it.  Thence to Westminster to my barber's, to have my Periwigg he
lately made me cleansed of its nits, which vexed me cruelly that he should put such a thing
into my hands.  Here meeting his mayd Jane, that has lived with them so long, I talked with
her, and sending her of an errand to Dr. Clerk's, did meet her, and took her into a little
alehouse in Brewers Yard, and there did sport with her, without any knowledge of her though,
and a very pretty innocent girl she is.  Thence to my Lord Chancellor's, but he being busy
I went away to the 'Change, and so home to dinner.  By and by comes Creed, and I out with him
to Fleet Street, and he to Mr. Povy's, I to my Lord Chancellor's, and missing him again walked
to Povy's, and there saw his new perspective in his closet.  Povy, to my great surprise and
wonder, did here attacque me in his own and Mr. Bland's behalf that I should do for them both
for the new contractors for the victualling of the garrison. Which I am ashamed that he should
ask of me, nor did I believe that he was a man that did seek benefit in such poor things. 
Besides that he professed that he did not believe that I would have any hand myself in the
contract, and yet here declares that he himself would have profit by it, and himself did move
me that Sir W. Rider might join, and Ford with Gauden.  I told him I had no interest in them,
but I fear they must do something to him, for he told me that those of the Mole did promise
to consider him.  Thence home and Creed with me, and there he took occasion to owne his obligations
to me, and did lay down twenty pieces in gold upon my shelf in my closett, which I did not
refuse, but wish and expected should have been more.  But, however, this is better than nothing,
and now I am out of expectation, and shall henceforward know how to deal with him. After discourse
of settling his matters here, we went out by coach, and he 'light at the Temple, and there
took final leave of me, in order to his following my Lord to-morrow.  Of this I was glad, and
so away.  Thence home, and late with my Tangier men about drawing up their agreement with us,
wherein I find much trouble, and after doing as much as we could to-night, broke up and I to bed.

19th.  Up, and to the office, where we sat all the morning.  At noon dined alone at home. 
After dinner Sir W. Batten and I down by water to Woolwich, where coming to the ropeyarde we
are told that Mr. Falconer, who hath been ill of a relapse these two days, is just now dead.
We went up to his widow, who is sicke in bed also.  The poor woman in great sorrow, and entreats
our friendship, which we shall, I think, in every thing do for her.  I am sure I will.  Thence
to the Docke, and there in Sheldon's garden eat some fruit; so to Deptford a little, and thence
home, it raining mightily, and being cold I doubted my health after it. At the office till
9 o'clock about Sir W. Warren's contract for masts, and then at home with Lanyon and Yeabsly
till 12 and past about their contract for Tangier, wherein they and I differed, for I would
have it drawn to the King's advantage, as much as might be, which they did not like, but parted
good friends; however, when they were gone, I wished that I had forborne any disagreement till
I had had their promise to me in writing.  They being gone, I to bed.

20th.  Up, and a while to my office, and then home with Mr. Deane till dinner, discoursing
upon the business of my Lord Chancellor's timber in Clarendon Parke, and how to make a report
therein without offending him; which at last I drew up, and hope it will please him.  But I
would to God neither I nor he ever had had any thing to have done with it!  One other suit
there is better than that; but very many lots of three and fourscore pounds.  I left the lottery,
and went to a play, only a piece of it, which was the Duke's house, "Worse and Worse;" just
the same manner of play, and writ, I believe, by the same man as "The Adventures of Five Hours;"
very pleasant it was, and I begin to admire Harris more than ever.  Thence to Westminster to
see Creed, and he and I took a walk in the Parke.  He is ill, and not able yet to set out after
my Lord, but will do to-morrow. So home, and late at my office, and so home to bed.  This evening
being moonshine I played a little late upon my flageolette in the garden.  But being at Westminster
Hall I met with great news that Mrs. Lane is married to one Martin, one that serves Captain
Marsh.  She is gone abroad with him to-day, very fine.  I must have a bout with her very shortly
to see how she finds marriage.

21st.  Up, and to the office, where we sat all the morning, among other things making a contract
with Sir W. Warren for almost 1000 Gottenburg masts, the biggest that ever was made in the
Navy, and wholly of my compassing and a good one I hope it is for the King.  Dined at Sir W.
Batten's, where I have not eat these many months.  Sir G. Carteret, Mr. Coventry, Sir J. Minnes,
and myself there only, and my Lady.  A good venison pasty, and very merry, and pleasant I made
myself with my Lady, and she as much to me.  This morning to the office comes Nicholas Osborne,
Mr. Gauden's clerke, to desire of me what piece of plate I would choose to have a L100, or
thereabouts, bestowed upon me in, he having order to lay out so much; and, out of his freedom
with me, do of himself come to make this question.  I a great while urged my unwillingnesse
to take any, not knowing how I could serve Mr. Gauden, but left it wholly to himself; so at
noon I find brought home in fine leather cases, a pair of the noblest flaggons that ever I
saw all the days of my life; whether I shall keepe them or no I cannot tell; for it is to oblige
me to him in the business of the Tangier victualling, wherein I doubt I shall not; but glad
I am to see that I shall be sure to get something on one side or other, have it which will:
so, with a merry heart, I looked upon them, and locked them up. After dinner to [give] my Lord
Chancellor a good account of his business, and he is very well pleased therewith, and carries
himself with great discretion to me, without seeming over glad or beholding to me; and yet
I know that he do think himself very well served by me.  Thence to Westminster and to Mrs.
Lane's lodgings, to give her joy, and there suffered me to deal with her as I hoped to do,
and by and by her husband comes, a sorry, simple fellow, and his letter to her which she proudly
showed me a simple, nonsensical thing.  A man of no discourse, and I fear married her to make
a prize of, which he is mistaken in, and a sad wife I believe she will prove to him, for she
urged me to appoint a time as soon as he is gone out of town to give her a meeting next week.
So by water with a couple of cozens of Mrs. Lane's, and set them down at Queenhive, and I through
Bridge home, and there late at business, and so home to supper and to bed.

22nd.  Up and to my office, where busy all the morning.  At noon to the 'Change, and so home
to dinner, and then down by water to Deptford, where coming too soon, I spent an houre in looking
round the yarde, and putting Mr. Shish

     [Jonas Shish, master-shipwright at Deptford.  There are several
     papers of his among the State Papers.  "I was at the funeral of old
     Mr. Shish, Master Shipwright of His Majesty's Yard here, an honest
     and remarkable man, and his death a public loss, for his excellent
     success in building ships (though altogether illiterate) and for
     bringing up so many of his children to be able artists.  I held up
     the pall with three knights who did him that honour, and he was
     worthy of it.  It was the custom of this good man to rise in the
     night and pray, kneeling in his own coffin, which he had lying by
     him for many years.  He was born that famous year, the Gunpowder-
     plot, 1605" (Evelyn's "Diary," May 13th, 1680).]

to measure a piece or two of timber, which he did most cruelly wrong, and to the King's losse
12 or 13s. in a piece of 28 feet in contents.  Thence to the Clerke of the Cheques, from whose
house Mr. Falconer was buried to-day; Sir J. Minnes and I the only principal officers that
were there. We walked to church with him, and then I left them without staying the sermon and
straight home by water, and there find, as I expected, Mr. Hill, and Andrews, and one slovenly
and ugly fellow, Seignor Pedro, who sings Italian songs to the theorbo most neatly, and they
spent the whole evening in singing the best piece of musique counted of all hands in the world,
made by Seignor Charissimi, the famous master in Rome.  Fine it was, indeed, and too fine for
me to judge of. They have spoke to Pedro to meet us every weeke, and I fear it will grow a
trouble to me if we once come to bid judges to meet us, especially idle Masters, which do a
little displease me to consider. They gone comes Mr. Lanyon, who tells me Mr. Alsopp is now
become dangerously ill, and fears his recovery, covery, which shakes my expectation of L630
per annum by the business; and, therefore, bless God for what Mr. Gauden hath sent me, which,
from some discourse to-day with Mr. Osborne, swearing that he knows not any thing of this business
of the victualling; but, the contrary, that it is not that moves Mr. Gauden to send it me,
for he hath had order for it any time these two months. Whether this be true or no, I know
not; but I shall hence with the more confidence keepe it.  To supper and to the office a little,
and to walk in the garden, the moon shining bright, and fine warm fair weather, and so home to bed.

23rd.  Up, and all the morning at the office.  At noon to the 'Change, where I took occasion
to break the business of my Lord Chancellor's timber to Mr. Coventry in the best manner I could.
He professed to me, that, till, Sir G. Carteret did speake of it at the table, after our officers
were gone to survey it, he did not know that my Lord Chancellor had any thing to do with it;
but now he says that he had been told by the Duke that Sir G. Carteret had spoke to him about
it, and that he had told the Duke that, were he in my Lord Chancellor's case, if he were his
father, he would rather fling away the gains of two or L3,000, than have it said that the timber,
which should have been the King's, if it had continued the Duke of Albemarle's, was concealed
by us in favour of my Lord Chancellor; for, says he, he is a great man, and all such as he,
and he himself particularly, have a great many enemies that would be glad of such an advantage
against him.  When I told him it was strange that Sir J. Minnes and Sir G. Carteret, that knew
my Lord Chancellor's concernment therein, should not at first inform us, he answered me that
for Sir J. Minnes, he is looked upon to be an old good companion, but by nobody at the other
end of the towne as any man of business, and that my Lord Chancellor, he dares say, never did
tell him of it, only Sir G. Carteret, he do believe, must needs know it, for he and Sir J.
Shaw are the greatest confidants he hath in the world.  So for himself, he said, he would not
mince the matter, but was resolved to do what was fit, and stand upon his owne legs therein,
and that he would speak to the Duke, that he and Sir G. Carteret might be appointed to attend
my Lord Chancellor in it.  All this disturbs me mightily.  I know not what to say to it, nor
how to carry myself therein; for a compliance will discommend me to Mr. Coventry, and a discompliance
to my Lord Chancellor.  But I think to let it alone, or at least meddle in it as little more
as I can. From thence walked toward Westminster, and being in an idle and wanton humour, walked
through Fleet Alley, and there stood a most pretty wench at one of the doors, so I took a turn
or two, but what by sense of honour and conscience I would not go in, but much against my will
took coach and away, and away to Westminster Hall, and there 'light of Mrs. Lane, and plotted
with her to go over the water.  So met at White's stairs in Chanel Row, and over to the old
house at Lambeth Marsh, and there eat and drank, and had my pleasure of her twice, she being
the strangest woman in talk of love to her husband sometimes, and sometimes again she do not
care for him, and yet willing enough to allow me a liberty of doing what I would with her.
So spending 5s. or 6s.  upon her, I could do what I would, and after an hour's stay and more
back again and set her ashore there again, and I forward to Fleet Street, and called at Fleet
Alley, not knowing how to command myself, and went in and there saw what formerly I have been
acquainted with, the wickedness of these houses, and the forcing a man to present expense.
The woman indeed is a most lovely woman, but I had no courage to meddle with her for fear of
her not being wholesome, and so counterfeiting that I had not money enough, it was pretty to
see how cunning she was, would not suffer me to have to do in any manner with her after she
saw I had no money, but told me then I would not come again, but she now was sure I would come
again, but I hope in God I shall not, for though she be one of the prettiest women I ever saw,
yet I fear her abusing me.  So desiring God to forgive me for this vanity, I went home, taking
some books from my bookseller, and taking his lad home with me, to whom I paid L10 for books
I have laid up money for, and laid out within these three weeks, and shall do no more a great
while I hope.  So to my office writing letters, and then home and to bed, weary of the pleasure
I have had to-day, and ashamed to think of it.

24th (Lord's day).  Up, in some pain all day from yesterday's passages, having taken cold,
I suppose.  So staid within all day reading of two or three good plays.  At night to my office
a little, and so home, after supper to bed.

25th. And here I find my Lord Mayor of the City set in order before the Archbishopp or any
nobleman, though all the greatest officers of state are there.  But yet I do not hear by my
Lord Berkeley, who is one of them, that any thing is like to come of it.  Thence back again
homewards, and Sir W. Batten and I to the Coffee-house, but no newes, only the plague is very
hot still, and encreases among the Dutch.  Home to dinner, and after dinner walked forth, and
do what I could I could not keep myself from going through Fleet Lane, but had the sense of
safety and honour not to go in, and the rather being a holiday I feared I might meet with some
people that might know me.  Thence to Charing Cross, and there called at Unthanke's to see
what I owed, but found nothing, and here being a couple of pretty ladies, lodgers in the kitchen,
I staid a little there.  Thence to my barber Gervas, who this day buries his child, which it
seems was born without a passage behind, so that it never voided any thing in the week or fortnight
that it has been born.  Thence to Mr. Reeves, it coming just now in my head to buy a microscope,
but he was not within, so I walked all round that end of the town among the loathsome people
and houses, but, God be thanked!  had no desire to visit any of them.  So home, where I met
Mr. Lanyon, who tells me Mr. Alsop is past hopes, which will mightily disappoint me in my hopes
there, and yet it may be not.  I shall think whether it will be safe for me to venture myself
or no, and come in as an adventurer.  He gone, Mr. Cole (my old Jack Cole) comes to see and
speak with me, and his errand in short to tell me that he is giving over his trade; he can
do no good in it, and will turn what he has into money and go to sea, his father being dead
and leaving him little, if any thing.  This I was sorry to hear, he being a man of good parts,
but, I fear, debauched.  I promised him all the friendship I can do him, which will end in
little, though I truly mean it, and so I made him stay with me till 11 at night, talking of
old school stories, and very pleasing ones, and truly I find that we did spend our time and
thoughts then otherwise than I think boys do now, and I think as well as methinks that the
best are now.  He supped with me, and so away, and I to bed.  And strange to see how we are
all divided that were bred so long at school together, and what various fortunes we have run,
some good, some bad.

26th.  All the morning at the office, at noon to Anthony Joyce's, to our gossip's dinner. 
I had sent a dozen and a half of bottles of wine thither, and paid my double share besides,
which is 18s.  Very merry we were, and when the women were merry and rose from table, I above
with them, ne'er a man but I, I began discourse of my not getting of children, and prayed them
to give me their opinions and advice, and they freely and merrily did give me these ten, among
them (1) Do not hug my wife too hard nor too much; (2) eat no late suppers; (3) drink juyce
of sage; (4) tent and toast; (5) wear cool holland drawers; (6) keep stomach warm and back
cool; (7) upon query whether it was best to do at night or morn, they answered me neither one
nor other, but when we had most mind to it; (8) wife not to go too straight laced; (9) myself
to drink mum and sugar; (10) Mrs. Ward did give me, to change my place.  The 3rd, 4th, 6th,
7th, and 10th they all did seriously declare, and lay much stress upon them as rules fit to
be observed indeed, and especially the last, to lie with our heads where our heels do, or at
least to make the bed high at feet and low at head.  Very merry all, as much as I could be
in such sorry company.  I to Mr. Reeves to see a microscope, he having been with me to-day
morning, and there chose one which I will have.  Thence back and took up young Mrs. Harman,
a pretty bred and pretty humoured woman whom I could love well, though not handsome, yet for
her person and carriage, and black.  By the way met her husband going for her, and set them
both down at home, and so home to my office a while, and so to supper and bed.

27th.  Up, and after some discourse with Mr. Duke, who is to be Secretary to the Fishery, and
is now Secretary to the Committee for Trade, who I find a very ingenious man, I went to Mr.
Povy's, and there heard a little of his empty discourse, and fain he would have Mr. Gauden
been the victualler for Tangier, which none but a fool would say to me when he knows he hath
made it his request to me to get him something of these men that now do it.  Thence to St.
James's, but Mr. Coventry being ill and in bed I did not stay, but to White Hall a little,
walked up and down, and so home to fit papers against this afternoon, and after dinner to the
'Change a little, and then to White Hall, where anon the Duke of Yorke came, and a Committee
we had of Tangier, where I read over my rough draught of the contract for Tangier victualling,
and acquainted them with the death of Mr. Alsopp, which Mr. Lanyon had told me this morning,
which is a sad consideration to see how uncertain a thing our lives are, and how little to
be presumed of in our greatest undertakings.  The words of the contract approved of, and I
home and there came Mr. Lanyon to me and brought my neighbour, Mr. Andrews, to me, whom he
proposes for his partner in the room of Mr. Alsopp, and I like well enough of it.  We read
over the contract together, and discoursed it well over and so parted, and I am glad to see
it once over in this condition again, for Mr. Lanyon and I had some discourse to-day about
my share in it, and I hope if it goes on to have my first hopes of L300 per ann.  They gone,
I to supper and to bed. This afternoon came my great store of Coles in, being to Chaldron,
so that I may see how long they will last me.

28th.  At the office all the morning, dined, after 'Change, at home, and then abroad, and seeing
"The Bondman"  upon the posts, I consulted my oaths and find I may go safely this time without
breaking it; I went thither, notwithstanding my great desire to have gone to Fleet Alley, God
forgive me, again.  There I saw it acted.  It is true, for want of practice, they had many
of them forgot their parts a little; but Betterton and my poor Ianthe outdo all the world.
There is nothing more taking in the world with me than that play.  Thence to Westminster to
my barber's, and strange to think how when I find that Jervas himself did intend to bring home
my periwigg, and not Jane his maid, I did desire not to have it at all, for I had a mind to
have her bring it home.  I also went to Mr. Blagrave's about speaking to him for his kinswoman
to come live with my wife, but they are not come to town, and so I home by coach and to my
office, and then to supper and to bed.  My present posture is thus: my wife in the country
and my mayde Besse with her and all quiett there.  I am endeavouring to find a woman for her
to my mind, and above all one that understands musique, especially singing.  I am the willinger
to keepe one because I am in good hopes to get 2 or L300 per annum extraordinary by the business
of the victualling of Tangier, and yet Mr. Alsopp, my chief hopes, is dead since my looking
after it, and now Mr. Lanyon, I fear, is, falling sicke too.  I am pretty well in health, only
subject to wind upon any cold, and then immediate and great pains.  All our discourse is of
a Dutch warr and I find it is likely to come to it, for they are very high and desire not to
compliment us at all, as far as I hear, but to send a good fleete to Guinny to oppose us there.
My Lord Sandwich newly gone to sea, and I, I think, fallen into his very good opinion again,
at least he did before his going, and by his letter since, show me all manner of respect and
confidence.  I do now live very prettily at home, being most seriously, quietly, and neatly
served by my two mayds Jane and the girle Su, with both of whom I am mightily well pleased.
My greatest trouble is the settling of Brampton Estate, that I may know what to expect, and
how to be able to leave it when I die, so as to be just to my promise to my uncle Thomas and
his son. The next thing is this cursed trouble my brother Tom is likely to put us to by his
death, forcing us to law with his creditors, among others Dr. Tom Pepys, and that with some
shame as trouble, and the last how to know in what manner as to saving or spending my father
lives, lest they should run me in debt as one of my uncle's executors, and I never the wiser
nor better for it.  But in all this I hope shortly to be at leisure to consider and inform
myself well.

29th.  At the office all the morning dispatching of business, at noon to the 'Change after
dinner, and thence to Tom Trice about Dr. Pepys's business, and thence it raining turned into
Fleet Alley, and there was with Cocke an hour or so.  The jade, whether I would not give her
money or not enough; she would not offer to invite to do anything, but on the contrary saying
she had no time, which I was glad of, for I had no mind to meddle with her, but had my end
to see what a cunning jade she was, to see her impudent tricks and ways of getting money and
raising the reckoning by still calling for things, that it come to 6 or 7 shillings presently.
So away home, glad I escaped without any inconvenience, and there came Mr. Hill, Andrews and
Seignor Pedro, and great store of musique we had, but I begin to be weary of having a master
with us, for it spoils, methinks, the ingenuity of our practice.  After they were gone comes
Mr. Bland to me, sat till 11 at night with me, talking of the garrison of Tangier and serving
them with pieces of eight.  A mind he hath to be employed there, but dares not desire any courtesy
of me, and yet would fain engage me to be for him, for I perceive they do all find that I am
the busy man to see the King have right done him by inquiring out other bidders.  Being quite
tired with him, I got him gone, and so to bed.

30th. After dinner to the office, and there all the afternoon making an end of several things
against the end of the month, that I may clear all my reckonings tomorrow; also this afternoon,
with great content, I finished the contracts for victualling of Tangier with Mr. Lanyon and
the rest, and to my comfort got him and Andrews to sign to the giving me L300 per annum, by
which, at least, I hope to be a L100 or two the better.  Wrote many letters by the post to
ease my mind of business and to clear my paper of minutes, as I did lately oblige myself to
clear every thing against the end of the month.  So at night with my mind quiet and contented
to bed. This day I sent a side of venison and six bottles of wine to Kate Joyce.

31st (Lord's day).  Up, and to church, where I have not been these many weeks.  So home, and
thither, inviting him yesterday, comes Mr. Hill, at which I was a little troubled, but made
up all very well, carrying him with me to Sir J. Minnes, where I was invited and all our families
to a venison pasty.  Here good cheer and good discourse.  After dinner Mr. Hill and I to my
house, and there to musique all the afternoon.  He being gone, in the evening I to my accounts,
and to my great joy and with great thanks to Almighty God, I do find myself most clearly worth
L1014, the first time that ever I was worth L1000 before, which is the height of all that ever
I have for a long time pretended to.  But by the blessing of God upon my care I hope to lay
up something more in a little time, if this business of the victualling of Tangier goes on
as I hope it will. So with praise to God for this state of fortune that I am brought to as
to wealth, and my condition being as I have at large set it down two days ago in this book,
I home to supper and to bed, desiring God to give me the grace to make good use of what I have
and continue my care and diligence to gain more.

