THE DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS M.A. F.R.S.

            CLERK OF THE ACTS AND SECRETARY TO THE ADMIRALTY

    TRANSCRIBED FROM THE SHORTHAND MANUSCRIPT IN THE PEPYSIAN LIBRARY
 MAGDALENE COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE BY THE REV. MYNORS BRIGHT M.A. LATE FELLOW
                      AND PRESIDENT OF THE COLLEGE

                              (Unabridged)

                      WITH LORD BRAYBROOKE'S NOTES

                        EDITED WITH ADDITIONS BY

                        HENRY B. WHEATLEY F.S.A.

                          DIARY OF SAMUEL PEPYS.
                             FEBRUARY & MARCH
                                1668-1669

February 1st.  Up, and by water from the Tower to White Hall, the first time that I have gone
to that end of the town by water, for two or three months, I think, since I kept a coach, which
God send propitious to me; but it is a very great convenience.  So we to the Duke of York's
playhouse, and there saw "She Would if She Could," and so home and to my office to business,
and then to supper and to bed.  This day, going to the play, The. Turner met us, and carried
us to her mother, at my Lady Mordaunt's; and I did carry both mother and daughter with us to
the Duke of York's playhouse, at next door.

2nd.  Thence carried Sheres to White Hall, and there I stepped in, and looked out Mr. May,
who tells me that he and his company cannot come to dine with me to-morrow, whom I expected
only to come to see the manner of our Office and books, at which I was not very much displeased,
having much business at the Office, and so away home, and there to the office about my letters,
and then home to supper and to bed, my wife being in mighty ill humour all night, and in the
morning I found it to be from her observing Knepp to wink and smile on me; and she says I smiled
on her; and, poor wretch! I did perceive that she did, and do on all such occasions, mind my
eyes. I did, with much difficulty, pacify her, and were friends, she desiring that hereafter,
at that house, we might always sit either above in a box, or, if there be [no] room, close
up to the lower boxes.

3rd.  So up, and to the Office till noon, and then home to a little dinner, and thither again
till night, mighty busy, to my great content, doing a great deal of business, and so home to
supper, and to bed; I finding this day that I may be able to do a great deal of business by
dictating, if I do not read myself, or write, without spoiling my eyes, I being very well in
my eyes after a great day's work.

4th.  Up, and at the office all the morning.  At noon home with my people to dinner, and then
after dinner comes Mr. Spong to see me, and brings me my Parallelogram, in better order than
before, and two or three draughts of the port of Brest, to my great content, and I did call
Mr. Gibson to take notice of it, who is very much pleased therewith; and it seems this Parallelogram
is not, as Mr. Sheres would, the other day, have persuaded me, the same as a Protractor, which
do so much the more make me value it, but of itself it is a most usefull instrument.  Thence
out with my wife and him, and carried him to an instrument-maker's shop in Chancery Lane, that
was once a 'Prentice of Greatorex's, but the master was not within, and there he [Gibson] shewed
me a Parallelogram in brass, which I like so well that I will buy, and therefore bid it be
made clean and fit for me. And so to my cozen Turner's, and there just spoke with The., the
mother not being at home; and so to the New Exchange, and thence home to my letters; and so
home to supper and to bed.  This morning I made a slip from the Office to White Hall, expecting
Povy's business at a Committee of Tangier, at which I would be, but it did not meet, and so
I presently back.

5th.  He mighty kind to me, and so parted, and thence home, calling in two or three places--among
others, Dancre's, where I find him beginning of a piece for me, of Greenwich, which will please
me well, and so home to dinner, and very busy all the afternoon, and so at night home to supper,
and to bed.

6th.

7th (Lord's day).  My wife mighty peevish in the morning about my lying
unquietly a-nights, and she will have it that it is a late practice, from
my evil thoughts in my dreams, .  .  .  .and mightily she is troubled
about it; but all blew over, and I up, and to church, and so home to
dinner, where she in a worse fit, which lasted all the afternoon, and
shut herself up, in her closet, and I mightily grieved and vexed, and
could not get her to tell me what ayled her, or to let me into her
closet, but at last she did, where I found her crying on the ground,
and I could not please her; but I did at last find that she did plainly
expound it to me.  It was, that she did believe me false to her with
Jane, and did rip up three or four silly circumstances of her not rising
till I come out of my chamber, and her letting me thereby see her
dressing herself; and that I must needs go into her chamber and was
naught with her; which was so silly, and so far from truth, that I could
not be troubled at it, though I could not wonder at her being troubled,
if she had these thoughts, and therefore she would lie from me, and
caused sheets to be put on in the blue room, and would have Jane to lie
with her lest I should come to her.  At last, I did give her such
satisfaction, that we were mighty good friends, and went to bed betimes
 .  .  .  .  .

8th.  Up, and dressed myself; and by coach, with W. Hewer and my wife, to White Hall, where
she set us two down; and in the way, our little boy, at Martin, my bookseller's shop, going
to 'light, did fall down; and, had he not been a most nimble boy (I saw how he did it, and
was mightily pleased with him for it), he had been run over by the coach.  So to my wife, took
her up at Unthank's, and in our way home did shew her the tall woman in Holborne, which I have
seen before; and I measured her, and she is, without shoes, just six feet five inches high,
and they say not above twenty-one years old.  Thence home, and there to dinner, and my wife
in a wonderful ill humour; and, after dinner, I staid with her alone, being not able to endure
this life, and fell to some angry words together; but by and by were mighty good friends, she
telling me plain it was still about Jane, whom she cannot believe but I am base with, which
I made a matter of mirth at; but at last did call up Jane, and confirm her mistress's directions
for her being gone at Easter, which I find the wench willing to be, but directly prayed that
Tom might go with her, which I promised, and was but what I designed; and she being thus spoke
with, and gone, my wife and I good friends, and mighty kind, I having promised, and I will
perform it, never to give her for the time to come ground of new trouble; and so I to the Office,
with a very light heart, and there close at my business all the afternoon.  This day I was
told by Mr. Wren, that Captain Cox, Master-Attendant at Deptford, is to be one of us very soon,
he and Tippets being to take their turns for Chatham and Portsmouth, which choice I like well
enough; and Captain Annesley is to come in his room at Deptford. This morning also, going to
visit Roger Pepys, at the potticary's in King's Street, he tells me that Roger is gone to his
wife's, so that they have been married, as he tells me, ever since the middle of last week:
it was his design, upon good reasons, to make no noise of it; but I am well enough contented
that it is over.  Dispatched a great deal of business at the office, and there pretty late,
till finding myself very full of wind, by my eating no dinner to-day, being vexed, I was forced
to go home, and there supped W. Batelier with us, and so with great content to bed.

9th.

10th.  Thus was the mould made; but when it came off there was little pleasure in it, as it
looks in the mould, nor any resemblance whatever there will be in the figure, when I come to
see it cast off, which I am to call for a day or two hence, which I shall long to see.  Thence
home, and there I find Povy and W. Batelier, by appointment, met to talk of some merchandize
of wine and linnen; but I do not like of their troubling my house to meet in, having no mind
to their pretences of having their rendezvous here, but, however, I was not much troubled,
but went to the office, and there very busy, and did much business till late at night, and
so home to supper, and with great pleasure to bed.  This day, at dinner, I sent to Mr. Spong
to come to me to Hercules Pillars, who come to us, and there did bring with him my new Parallelogram
of brass, which I was mightily pleased with, and paid for it 25s., and am mightily pleased
with his ingenious and modest company.

11th.  Up, and to the office, where sat all the morning, and at noon home and heard that the
last night Colonel Middleton's wife died, a woman I never saw since she come hither, having
never been within their house since.  Home at noon to dinner, and thence to work all the afternoon
with great pleasure, and did bring my business to a very little compass in my day book, which
is a mighty pleasure, and so home to supper and get my wife to read to me, and then to bed.

12th.  So after dinner we away and to Dancre's, and there saw our picture of Greenwich in doing,
which is mighty pretty, and so to White Hall, my wife to Unthank's, and I attended with Lord
Brouncker the King and Council, about the proposition of balancing Storekeeper's accounts and
there presented Hosier's book, and it was mighty well resented and approved of.  Thence I homeward,
and calling my wife called at my cozen Turner's, and there met our new cozen Pepys (Mrs. Dickenson),
and Bab. and Betty' come yesterday to town, poor girls, whom we have reason to love, and mighty
glad we are to see them; and there staid and talked a little, being also mightily pleased to
see Betty Turner, who is now in town, and her brothers Charles and Will, being come from school
to see their father, and there talked a while, and so home, and there Pelling hath got me W.
Pen's book against the Trinity.

     [Entitled, "The Sandy Foundation Shaken; or those .  .  .  doctrines
     of one God subsisting in three distinct and separate persons; the
     impossibility of God's pardoning sinners without a plenary
     satisfaction, the justification of impure persons by an imputative
     righteousness, refuted from the authority of Scripture testimonies
     and right reason, etc.  London, 1668."  It caused him to be
     imprisoned in the Tower.  "Aug. 4, 1669.  Young Penn who wrote the
     blasphemous book is delivered to his father to be transported"  So to supper and to bed.

13th.  Up, and all the morning at the office, and at noon home to dinner, and thence to the
office again mighty busy, to my great content, till night, and then home to supper and, my
eyes being weary, to bed.

14th (Lord's day). At noon home, and pleased mightily with my morning's work, and coming home,
I do find a letter from Mr. Wren, to call me to the Duke of York after dinner.  For that Sir
W. Coventry says they could borrow what money they would, if they had assignments, and funds
to secure it with, which before they had enough of, and then must spend it as if it would never
have an end.  From White Hall to my cozen Turner's, and there took up my wife; and so to my
uncle Wight's, and there sat and supped, and talked pretty merry, and then walked home, and to bed.

15th.  Up, and with Tom to White Hall; and there at a Committee of
Tangier, where a great instance of what a man may lose by the neglect of a
friend: Povy never had such an opportunity of passing his accounts, the
Duke of York being there, and everybody well disposed, and in expectation
of them; but my Lord Ashly, on whom he relied, and for whose sake this day
was pitched on, that he might be sure to be there, among the rest of his
friends, staid too long, till the Duke of York and the company thought
unfit to stay longer and so the day lost, and God knows when he will ever
have so good a one again, as long as he lives; and this was the man of the
whole company that he hath made the most interest to gain, and now most
depended upon him.  So up and down the house a while, and then to the
plaisterer's, and there saw the figure of my face taken from the mould:
and it is most admirably like, and I will have another made, before I take
it away, and therefore I away and to the Temple, and thence to my cozen
Turner's, where, having the last night been told by her that she had drawn
me for her Valentine, I did this day call at the New Exchange, and bought
her a pair of green silk stockings and garters and shoe-strings, and two
pair of jessimy gloves, all coming to about 28s., and did give them her
this noon.  I dined
at my cozen Turner's, and my wife also and her husband there, and after
dinner, my wife and I endeavoured to make a visit to Ned Pickering; but he
not at home, nor his lady; and therefore back again, and took up my cozen
Turner, and to my cozen Roger's lodgings, and there find him pretty well
again, and his wife mighty kind and merry, and did make mighty much of us,
and I believe he is married to a very good woman.  Here was also Bab. and
Betty, who have not their clothes yet, and therefore cannot go out,
otherwise I would have had them abroad to-morrow; but the poor girls
mighty kind to us, and we must skew them kindness also.  Here in Suffolk
Street lives Moll Davis; and we did see her coach come for her to her
door, a mighty pretty fine coach.  It would appear, from other authorities, that
     between 1646 and 1660 scarcely any pews had been erected; and Sir C.
     Wren is known to have objected to their introduction into his London
     churches.--B.]

with her.  The house very full; and late before done, so that it was past eleven before we
got home.  But we were well pleased with seeing it, and so to supper, where it happened that
there was no bread in the house, which was an unusual case, and so to bed.

16th.  Up, and to the office, where all the morning, my head full of business of the office
now at once on my hands, and so at noon home to dinner, where I find some things of W. Batelier's
come out of France, among which some clothes for my wife, wherein she is likely to lead me
to the expence of so much money as vexed me; but I seemed so, more than I at this time was,
only to prevent her taking too much, and she was mighty calm under it.  But I was mightily
pleased with another picture of the King of France's head, of Nanteuil's, bigger than the other
which he brought over, that pleases me infinitely: and so to the Office, where busy all the
afternoon, though my eyes mighty bad with the light of the candles last night, which was so
great as to make my eyes sore all this day, and do teach me, by a manifest experiment, that
it is only too much light that do make my eyes sore.  Nevertheless, with the help of my tube,
and being desirous of easing my mind of five or six days journall, I did venture to write it
down from ever since this day se'nnight, and I think without hurting my eyes any more than
they were before, which was very much, and so home to supper and to bed.

17th.  So calling at my shoemaker's, and paying him to this day, I home to dinner, and in the
afternoon to Colonel Middleton's house, to the burial of his wife, where we are all invited,
and much more company, and had each of us a ring: and so towards evening to our church, where
there was a sermon preached by Mills, and so home.  At home comes Castle to me, to desire me
to go to Mr. Pedly, this night, he being to go out of town to-morrow morning, which I, therefore,
did, by hackney-coach, first going to White Hall to meet with Sir W. Coventry, but missed him.
But here I had a pleasant rencontre of a lady in mourning, that, by the little light I had,
seemed handsome. I passing by her, I did observe she looked back again and again upon me, I
suffering her to go before, and it being now duske.  I observed she went into the little passage
towards the Privy Water-Gate, and I followed, but missed her; but coming back again, I observed
she returned, and went to go out of the Court.  I followed her, and took occasion, in the new
passage now built, where the walke is to be, to take her by the hand, to lead her through,
which she willingly accepted, and I led her to the Great Gate, and there left her, she telling
me, of her own accord, that she was going as far as, Charing Cross; but my boy was at the gate,
and so je durst not go out con her, which vexed me, and my mind (God forgive me) did run apres
her toute that night, though I have reason to thank God, and so I do now, that I was not tempted
to go further.  So to Lincoln's Inn, where to Mr. Pedly, with whom I spoke, and did my business
presently: and I find him a man of very good language, and mighty civil, and I believe very
upright: and so home, where W. Batelier was, and supped with us, and I did reckon this night
what I owed him; and I do find that the things my wife, of her own head, hath taken (together
with my own, which comes not to above L5), comes to above L22.  But it is the last, and so
I am the better contented; and they are things that are not trifles, but clothes, gloves, shoes,
hoods, &c. So after supper, to bed.

18th.  Up, and to the Office, and at noon home, expecting to have this day seen Bab. and Betty
Pepys here, but they come not; and so after dinner my wife and I to the Duke of York's house,
to a play, and there saw "The Mad Lover," which do not please me so well as it used to do,
only Betterton's part still pleases me.  But here who should we have come to us but Bab. and
Betty and Talbot, the first play they were yet at; and going to see us, and hearing by my boy,
whom I sent to them, that we were here, they come to us hither, and happened all of us to sit
by my cozen Turner and The., and we carried them home first, and then took Bab. and Betty to
our house, where they lay and supped, and pretty merry, and very fine with their new clothes,
and good comely girls they are enough, and very glad I am of their being with us, though I
would very well have been contented to have been without the charge.  So they to bed and we to bed.

19th.  Up, and after seeing the girls, who lodged in our bed, with their maid Martha, who hath
been their father's maid these twenty years and more, I with Lord Brouncker to White Hall,
where all of us waited on the Duke of York; and after our usual business done, W. Hewer and
I to look my wife at the Black Lion, Mercer's, but she is gone home, and so I home and there
dined, and W. Batelierand W. Hewer with us.  All the afternoon I at the Office, while the young
people went to see Bedlam, and at night home to them and to supper, and pretty merry, only
troubled with a great cold at this time, and my eyes very bad ever since Monday night last
that the light of the candles spoiled me.  So to bed.

20th.  Up, and all the morning at the office, and then home to dinner, and after dinner out
with my wife and my two girls to the Duke of York's house, and there saw "The Gratefull Servant,"
a pretty good play, and which I have forgot that ever I did see.  And thence with them to Mrs.
Gotier's, the Queen's tire-woman, for a pair of locks for my wife; she is an oldish French
woman, but with a pretty hand as most I have seen; and so home, and to supper, W. Batelier
and W. Hewer with us, and so my cold being great, and greater by my having left my coat at
my tailor's to-night and come home in a thinner that I borrowed there, I went to bed before
them and slept pretty well.

21st (Lord's day).  Up, and with my wife and two girls to church, they very fine; and so home,
where comes my cozen Roger and his wife, I having sent for them, to dine with us, and there
comes in by chance also Mr. Shepley, who is come to town with my Lady Paulina, who is desperately
sick, and is gone to Chelsey, to the old house where my Lord himself was once sick, where I
doubt my Lord means to visit hers more for young Mrs. Beck's sake than for hers.  Here we dined
with W. Batelier, and W. Hewer with us, these two, girls making it necessary that they be always
with us, for I am not company light enough to be always merry with them and so sat talking
all the afternoon, and then Shepley went: away first, and then my cozen Roger and his wife.
And so I, to my Office, to write down my Journall, and so home to my chamber and to do a little
business there, my papers being in mighty disorder, and likely so to continue while these girls
are with us.  In the evening comes W. Batelier and his sisters and supped and talked with us,
and so spent the evening, myself being somewhat out of order because of my eyes, which have
never been well since last Sunday's reading at Sir W. Coventry's chamber, and so after supper
to bed.

22nd.  Up, and betimes to White Hall; but there the Duke of York is gone abroad a-hunting,
and therefore after a little stay there I into London, with Sir H. Cholmly, talking all the
way of Tangier matters, wherein I find him troubled from some reports lately from Norwood (who
is his great enemy and I doubt an ill man), of some decay of the Mole, and a breach made therein
by the sea to a great value.  He set me down at the end of Leadenhall Street, and so I home,
and after dinner, with my wife, in her morning-gown, and the two girls dressed, to Unthanke's,
where my wife dresses herself, having her gown this day laced, and a new petticoat; and so
is indeed very fine.  And in the evening I do carry them to White Hall, and there did without
much trouble get into the playhouse, there in a good place among the Ladies of Honour, and
myself also sat in the pit; and there by and by come the King and Queen, and they begun "Bartholomew
Fayre."

23rd.  Up: and to the Office, where all the morning, and then home, and
put a mouthfull of victuals in my mouth; and by a hackney-coach followed
my wife and the girls, who are gone by eleven o'clock, thinking to have
seen a new play at the Duke of York's house.
     The record of this royal salute on his natal day is very
     characteristic.  The story told him in Westminster Abbey appears to
     have been correct; for Neale informs us ("History of Westminster
     Abbey," vol. ii., p. 88) that near the south side of Henry V.'s tomb
     there was formerly a wooden chest, or coffin, wherein part of the
     skeleton and parched body of Katherine de Valois, his queen (from
     the waist upwards), was to be seen.  She was interred in January,
     1457, in the Chapel of Our Lady, at the east end of this church; but
     when that building was pulled down by her grandson, Henry VII., her
     coffin was found to be decayed, and her body was taken up, and
     placed in a chest, near her first husband's tomb.  "There," says
     Dart, "it hath ever since continued to be seen, the bones being
     firmly united, and thinly clothed with flesh, like scrapings of
     tanned leather."  This awful spectacle of frail mortality was at
     length removed from the public gaze into St. Nicholas's Chapel, and
     finally deposited under the monument of Sir George Villiers, when
     the vault was made for the remains of Elizabeth Percy, Duchess of
     Northumberland, in December, 1776.--B.]

and that this was my birth-day, thirty-six years old, that I did first kiss a Queen. Thence
to the Duke of York's playhouse, and there, finding the play begun, we homeward to the Glass-House,

     [Glass House Alley, Whitefriars and Blackfriars, marked the site for
     some years: The Whitefriars Glass Works of Messrs.  Powell and Sons
     are on the old site, now Temple Street.]

and there shewed my cozens the making of glass, and had several things made with great content;
and, among others, I had one or two singing-glasses made, which make an echo to the voice,
the first that ever I saw; but so thin, that the very breath broke one or two of them.  So
home, and thence to Mr. Batelier's, where we supped, and had a good supper, and here was Mr.
Gumbleton; and after supper some fiddles, and so to dance; but my eyes were so out of order,
that I had little pleasure this night at all, though I was glad to see the rest merry, and
so about midnight home and to bed.

24th.  Lay long in bed, both being sleepy and my eyes bad, and myself having a great cold so
as I was hardly able to speak, but, however, by and by up and to the office, and at noon home
with my people to dinner, and then I to the office again, and there till the evening doing
of much business, and at night my wife sends for me to W. Hewer's lodging, where I find two
best chambers of his so finely furnished, and all so rich and neat, that I was mightily pleased
with him and them and here only my wife, and I, and the two girls, and had a mighty neat dish
of custards and tarts, and good drink and talk.  And so away home to bed, with infinite content
at this his treat; for it was mighty pretty, and everything mighty rich.

25th.  All the morning at the office.  Thence to the office I, and did a little business, and
so home to supper with my girls, and pretty merry, only my eyes, which continue very bad, and
my cold, that I cannot speak at all, do trouble me.

26th.  Was forced to send my excuse to the Duke of York for my not attending him with my fellows
this day because of my cold, and was the less troubled because I was thereby out of the way
to offer my proposals about Pursers till the Surveyor hath delivered his notions, which he
is to do to-day about something he has to offer relating to the Navy in general, which I would
be glad to see and peruse before I offer what I have to say. So lay long in bed, and then up
and to my office, and so to dinner, and then, though I could not speak, yet I went with my
wife and girls to the King's playhouse, to shew them that, and there saw "The Faithfull Shepherdesse."
But, Lord!  what an empty house, there not being, as I could tell the people, so many as to
make up above L10 in the whole house! The being of a new play at the other house, I suppose,
being the cause, though it be so silly a play that I wonder how there should be enough people
to go thither two days together, and not leave more to fill this house.  The emptiness of the
house took away our pleasure a great deal, though I liked it the better; for that I plainly
discern the musick is the better, by how much the house the emptier. Thence home, and again
to W. Hewer's, and had a pretty little treat, and spent an hour or two, my voice being wholly
taken away with my cold, and so home and to bed.

27th.  Up, and at the office all the morning, where I could speak but a little.  At noon home
to dinner, and all the afternoon till night busy at the office again, where forced to speak
low and dictate.  But that that troubles me most is my eyes, which are still mighty bad night
and day, and so home at night to talk and sup with my cozens, and so all of us in mighty good
humour to bed.

28th (Lord's day).  Up, and got my wife to read to me a copy of what the
Surveyor offered to the Duke of York on Friday, he himself putting it into
my hands to read; but, Lord! it is a poor, silly thing ever to think to
bring it in practice, in the King's Navy.  It is to have the Captains to
account for all stores and victuals; but upon so silly grounds, to my
thinking; and ignorance of the present instructions of Officers, that I am
ashamed to hear it.  However, I do take a copy of it, for my future use
and answering; and so to church, where, God forgive me!  I did most of the
time gaze on the fine milliner's wife, in Fenchurch Street, who was at our
church to-day; and so home to dinner.  And after dinner to write down my
Journall; and then abroad by coach with my cozens, to their father's,
where we are kindly received, but he is an great pain for his man Arthur,
who, he fears, is now dead, having been desperately sick, and speaks so
much of him that my cozen, his wife, and I did make mirth of it, and call
him Arthur O'Bradly.  After staying here a little, and eat and drank, and
she gave me some ginger-bread made in cakes, like chocolate, very good,
made by a friend, I carried him and her to my cozen Turner's, where we
staid, expecting her coming from church; but she coming not, I went to her
husband's chamber in the Temple, and thence fetched her, she having been
there alone ever since sermon staying till the evening to walk home on
foot, her horses being ill.  This I did, and brought her home.  And after
talking there awhile, and agreeing to be all merry at my house on Tuesday
next, I away home; and there spent the evening talking and reading, with
my wife and Mr. Pelling, and yet much troubled with my cold, it hardly
suffering me to speak, we to bed.
                                 MARCH
                               1668-1669

March 1st.  Up, and to White Hall to the Committee of Tangier, but it did not meet.  And so
home, where W. Batelier come, and sat with us; and there, after many doubts, did resolve to
go on with our feast and dancing to-morrow; and so, after supper, left the maids to make clean
the house, and to lay the cloth, and other things against to-morrow, and we to bed.

2nd.  Up, and at the office till noon, when home, and there I find my company come, namely,
Madam Turner, Dyke, The., and Betty Turner, and Mr. Bellwood, formerly their father's clerk,
but now set up for himself--a conceited, silly fellow, but one they make mightily of--my cozen
Roger Pepys, and his wife, and two daughters.  I had a noble dinner for them, as I almost ever
had, and mighty merry, and particularly myself pleased with looking on Betty Turner, who is
mighty pretty.  After dinner, we fell one to one talk, and another to another, and looking
over my house, and closet, and things; and The. Turner to write a letter to a lady in the country,
in which I did, now and then, put in half a dozen words, and sometimes five or six lines, and
then she as much, and made up a long and good letter, she being mighty witty really, though
troublesome-humoured with it.  And thus till night, that our musick come, and the Office ready
and candles, and also W. Batelier and his sister Susan come, and also Will.  Howe and two gentlemen
more, strangers, which, at my request yesterday, he did bring to dance, called Mr. Ireton and
Mr. Starkey.  We fell to dancing, and continued, only with intermission for a good supper,
till two in the morning, the musick being Greeting, and another most excellent violin, and
theorbo, the best in town.  And so with mighty mirth, and pleased with their dancing of jigs
afterwards several of them, and, among others, Betty Turner, who did it mighty prettily; and,
lastly, W. Batelier's "Blackmore and Blackmore Mad;" and then to a country-dance again, and
so broke up with extraordinary pleasure, as being one of the days and nights of my life spent
with the greatest content; and that which I can but hope to repeat again a few times in my
whole life.  This done, we parted, the strangers home, and I did lodge my cozen Pepys and his
wife in our blue chamber.  My cozen Turner, her sister, and The., in our best chamber; Bab.,
Betty, and Betty Turner, in our own chamber; and myself and my wife in the maid's bed, which
is very good.  Our maids in the, coachman's bed; the coachman with the boy in his settlebed,
and Tom where he uses to lie.  And so I did, to my great content, lodge at once in my house,
with the greatest ease, fifteen, and eight of them strangers of quality.  My wife this day
put on first her French gown, called a Sac, which becomes her very well, brought her over by
W. Batelier.

3rd.  But it is but a sorry play, and the worse by how much my head is
out of humour by being a little sleepy and my legs weary since last night. Coventry has given
     me this good occasion by sending my Lord of Buckingham a challenge
     to turne him out of the Councill.  I do intend to turn him allso out
     of the Treasury.  The truth of it is, he has been a troublesome man
     in both places and I am well rid of him"  So to Cox's, and thence
walked with Sir J. Smith back to Redriffe; and so, by water home, and
there my wife mighty angry for my absence, and fell mightily out, but not
being certain of any thing, but thinks only that Pierce or Knepp was
there, and did ask me, and, I perceive, the boy, many questions.  But I
did answer her; and so, after much ado, did go to bed, and lie quiet all
night; but [she] had another bout with me in the morning, but I did make
shift to quiet her, but yet she was not fully satisfied, poor wretch! in
her mind, and thinks much of my taking so much pleasure from her; which,
indeed, is a fault, though I did not design or foresee it when I went.

5th.  And so in the evening home, and there busy at the Office awhile, and so to bed, mightily
pleased with being at peace with my poor wife, and with the pleasure we may hope to have with
our coach this summer, when the weather comes to be good.

6th.  He told me the passage at the Council much like what my Lord Bellassis told me.  This
and much more discourse being over I with great pleasure come home and to the office, where
all the morning, and at noon home to dinner, and thence to the office again, where very hard
at work all the afternoon till night, and then home to my wife to read to me, and to bed, my
cold having been now almost for three days quite gone from me.  This day my wife made it appear
to me that my late entertainment this week cost me above L12, an expence which I am almost
ashamed of, though it is but once in a great while, and is the end for which, in the most part,
we live, to have such a merry day once or twice in a man's life.

7th (Lord's day).  Thence home, and with our coach out
to Suffolk Street, to see my cozen Pepys, but neither the old nor young at
home.  When the
     committee house was blown up, he was very active in that rising, and
     after the soldiers came and dispersed the rout, he, as a rat among
     joint stools, shifted to and fro among the shambles, and had forty
     pistols shot at him by the troopers that rode after him to kill him
     [24th April, 1648].  In that distress he had the presence of mind to
     catch up a little child that, during the rout, was frighted, and
     stood crying in the streets, and, unobserved by the troopers, ran
     away with it.  The people opened a way for him, saying, ' Make room
     for the poor child.' Thus he got off, and while search was made for
     him in the market-place, got into the Yarmouth ferry, and at
     Yarmouth took ship and went to Holland .  .  .  .  In Holland he
     trailed a pike, and was in several actions as a common soldier.  At
     length he kept a cavalier eating-house; but, his customers being
     needy, he soon broke, and came for England, and being a genteel
     youth, was taken in among the chancery clerks, and got to be under a
     master .  .  .  .  His industry was great; and he had an acquired
     dexterity and skill in the forms of the court; and although he was a
     bon companion, and followed much the bottle, yet he made such
     dispatches as satisfied his clients, especially the clerks, who knew
     where to find him.  His person was florid, and speech prompt and
     articulate.  But his vices, in the way of women and the bottle, were
     so ungoverned, as brought him to a morsel .  .  .  .  When the Lord
     Keeper North had the Seal, who from an early acquaintance had a
     kindness for him which was well known, and also that he was well
     heard, as they call it, business flowed in to him very fast, and yet
     he could scarce keep himself at liberty to follow his business ....
     At the Revolution, when his interest fell from, and his debts began
     to fall upon him, he was at his wits' end ....  His character for
     fidelity, loyalty, and facetious conversation was without
     exception"--Roger North's Lives of the Norths (Lord Keeper
     Guilford), ed.  Jessopp, vol. i., pp. 381-2.  He was originally made
     Lord Chancellor of Ireland in the reign of James II., during the
     viceroyalty of Lord Clarendon, 1686, when he was knighted.  "He
     was," says Burnet, "a man of ready wit, and being poor was thought a
     person fit to be made a tool of.  When Clarendon was recalled,
     Porter was also displaced, and Fitton was made chancellor, a man who
     knew no other law than the king's pleasure" ("Own Time").  Sir
     Charles Porter was again made Lord Chancellor of Ireland in 1690,
     and in this same year he acted as one of the Lords Justices.  This
     note of Lord Braybrooke's is retained and added to, but the
     reference may after all be to another Charles Porter.  So to my wife to Suffolk Streete, where she was gone, and there I
found them at supper, and eat a little with them, and so home, and there
to bed, my cold pretty well gone.

8th.  So W. Hewer and I to the Harp-and-Ball, to drink my morning draught, having come out
in haste; and there met with King, the Parliament-man, with whom I had some impertinent talk.
This I did after I had walked to the New Exchange and there met Mr. Moore, who went with me
thither, and I find him the same discontented poor man as ever.  He tells me that Mr. Shepley
is upon being turned away from my Lord's family, and another sent down, which I am sorry for;
but his age and good fellowship have almost made him fit for nothing. Thence, at Unthanke's
my wife met me, and with our coach to my cozen Turner's and there dined, and after dinner with
my wife alone to the King's playhouse, and there saw "The Mocke Astrologer," which I have often
seen, and but an ordinary play; and so to my cozen Turner's again, where we met Roger Pepys,
his wife, and two daughters, and there staid and talked a little, and then home, and there
my wife to read to me, my eyes being sensibly hurt by the too great lights of the playhouse.
So to supper and to bed.

9th.  From this to other discourse, and so to the Office, where we sat all the morning, and
after dinner by coach to my cozen Turner's, thinking to have taken the young ladies to a play;
but The. was let blood to-day; and so my wife and I towards the King's playhouse, and by the
way found Betty [Turner], and Bab., and Betty Pepys staying for us; and so took them all to
see "Claricilla," which do not please me almost at all, though there are some good things in
it.  And so to my cozen Turner's again, and there find my Lady Mordaunt, and her sister Johnson;
and by and by comes in a gentleman, Mr. Overbury, a pleasant man, who plays most excellently
on the flagelette, a little one, that sounded as low as one of mine, and mighty pretty.  Hence
by and by away, and with my wife, and Bab. and Betty Pepys, and W. Hewer, whom I carried all
this day with me, to my cozen Stradwick's, where I have not been ever since my brother Tom
died, there being some difference between my father and them, upon the account of my cozen
Scott; and I was glad of this opportunity of seeing them, they being good and substantial people,
and kind, and here met my cozen Roger and his wife, and my cozen Turner, and here, which I
never did before, I drank a glass, of a pint, I believe, at one draught, of the juice of oranges,
of whose peel they make comfits; and here they drink the juice as wine, with sugar, and it
is very fine drink; but, it being new, I was doubtful whether it might not do me hurt.  Having
staid a while, my wife and I back, with my cozen Turner, etc., to her house, and there we took
our leaves of my cozen Pepys, who goes with his wife and two daughters for Impington tomorrow.
They are very good people, and people I love, and am obliged to, and shall have great pleasure
in their friendship, and particularly in hers, she being an understanding and good woman. 
So away home, and there after signing my letters, my eyes being bad, to supper and to bed.

10th.  Up, and by hackney-coach to Auditor Beale's Office, in Holborne, to look for records
of the Navy, but he was out of the way, and so forced to go next to White Hall, to the Privy
Seal; and, after staying a little there, then to Westminster, where, at the Exchequer, I met
with Mr. Newport and Major Halsey; and, after doing a little business with Mr. Burges, we by
water to White Hall, where I made a little stop: and so with them by coach to Temple Bar, where,
at the Sugar Loaf we dined, and W. Hewer with me; and there comes a companion of theirs, Colonel
Vernon, I think they called him; a merry good fellow, and one that was very plain in cursing
the Duke of Buckingham, and discoursing of his designs to ruin us, and that ruin must follow
his counsels, and that we are an undone people. To which the others concurred, but not so plain,
but all vexed at Sir W. Coventry's being laid aside: but Vernon, he is concerned, I perceive,
for my Lord Ormond's being laid aside; but their company, being all old cavaliers, were very
pleasant to hear how they swear and talk.  But Halsey, to my content, tells me that my Lord
Duke of Albemarle says that W. Coventry being gone, nothing will be well done at the Treasury,
and I believe it; but they do all talk as that Duncombe, upon some pretence or other, must
follow him.  Thence to Auditor Beale's, his house and office, but not to be found, and therefore
to the Privy Seale at White Hall, where, with W. Hewer and Mr. Gibson, who met me at the Temple,
I spent the afternoon till evening looking over the books there, and did find several things
to my purpose, though few of those I designed to find, the books being kept there in no method
at all.  Having done there, we by water home, and there find my cozen Turner and her two daughters
come to see us; and there, after talking a little, I had my coach ready, and my wife and I,
they going home, we out to White Chapel to take a little ayre, though yet the dirtiness of
the road do prevent most of the pleasure, which should have been from this tour.  So home,
and my wife to read to me till supper, and to bed.

11th. So away to the Office, where busy all the morning, and so to dinner, and so very busy
all the afternoon, at my Office, late; and then home tired, to supper, with content with my
wife, and so to bed, she pleasing me, though I dare not own it, that she hath hired a chambermaid;
but she, after many commendations, told me that she had one great fault, and that was, that
she was very handsome, at which I made nothing, but let her go on; but many times to-night
she took occasion to discourse of her handsomeness, and the danger she was in by taking her,
and that she did doubt yet whether it would be fit for her, to take her.  But I did assure
her of my resolutions to have nothing to do with her maids, but in myself I was glad to have
the content to have a handsome one to look on.

12th.  Thence back to Graye's Inne: and, at the next door, at a cook's-shop of Howe's acquaintance,
we bespoke dinner, it being now two o'clock; and in the meantime he carried us into Graye's
Inne, to his chamber, where I never was before; and it is very pretty, and little, and neat,
as he was always.  And so, after a little stay, and looking over a book or two there, we carried
a piece of my Lord Coke with us, and to our dinner, where, after dinner, he read at my desire
a chapter in my Lord Coke about perjury, wherein I did learn a good deal touching oaths, and
so away to the Patent Office; in Chancery Lane, where his brother Jacke, being newly broke
by running in debt, and growing an idle rogue, he is forced to hide himself; and W. Howe do
look after the Office, and here I did set a clerk to look out some things for me in their books,
while W. Hewer and I to the Crowne Offices where we met with several good things that I most
wanted, and did take short notes of the dockets, and so back to the Patent Office, and did
the like there, and by candle-light ended.  And so home, where, thinking to meet my wife with
content, after my pains all this day, I find her in her closet, alone, in the dark, in a hot
fit of railing against me, upon some news she has this day heard of Deb.'s living very fine,
and with black spots, and speaking ill words of her mistress, which with good reason might
vex her; and the baggage is to blame, but, God knows, I know nothing of her, nor what she do,
nor what becomes of her, though God knows that my devil that is within me do wish that I could.
Yet God I hope will prevent me therein, for I dare not trust myself with it if I should know
it; but, what with my high words, and slighting it, and then serious, I did at last bring her
to very good and kind terms, poor heart!  and I was heartily glad of it, for I do see there
is no man can be happier than myself, if I will, with her.  But in her fit she did tell me
what vexed me all the night, that this had put her upon putting off her handsome maid and hiring
another that was full of the small pox, which did mightily vex me, though I said nothing, and
do still.  So down to supper, and she to read to me, and then with all possible kindness to bed.

13th.  Up, and to the Tower, to see Sir W. Coventry, and with him talking of business of the
Navy, all alone, an hour, he taking physic.  And so away to the Office, where all the morning,
and then home to dinner, with my people, and so to the Office again, and there all the afternoon
till night, when comes, by mistake, my cozen Turner, and her two daughters, which love such
freaks, to eat some anchovies and ham of bacon with me, instead of noon, at dinner, when I
expected them.  But, however, I had done my business before they come, and so was in good humour
enough to be with them, and so home to them to supper, and pretty merry, being pleased to see
Betty Turner, which hath something mighty pretty.  They staid till about eight at night, and
then away, and my wife to read to me, and then to bed in mighty good humour, but for my eyes.

14th (Lord's day).  Up, and to my office with Tom, whom I made to read to me the books of Propositions
in the time of the Grand Commission, which I did read a good part of before church, and then
with my wife to church, where I did see my milliner's wife come again, which pleased me; but
I durst not be seen to mind her for fear of my wife's seeing me, though the woman I did never
speak twenty words to, and that but only in her husband's shop.  But so fearful I am of discontenting
my wife, or giving her cause of jealousy.  But here we heard a most excellent good sermon of
Mr. Gifford's, upon the righteousness of Scribes and Pharisees.  So home to dinner and to work
again, and so till dinner, where W. Howe come and dined with me, and staid and read in my Lord
Cooke upon his chapter of perjury again, which pleased me, and so parted, and I to my office,
and there made an end of the books of Propositions, which did please me mightily to hear read,
they being excellently writ and much to the purpose, and yet so as I think I shall make good
use of his defence of our present constitution.  About four o'clock took coach to visit my
cozen Turner, and I out with her to make a visit, but the lady she went to see was abroad.
So back and to talk with her and her daughters, and then home, and she and I to walk in the
garden, the first time this year, the weather being mighty temperate; and then I to write down
my Journall for the last week, my eyes being very bad, and therefore I forced to find a way
to use by turns with my tube, one after another, and so home to supper and to bed.  Before
I went from my office this night I did tell Tom my resolution not to keep him after Jane was
gone, but shall do well by him, which pleases him; and I think he will presently marry her,
and go away out of my house with her.

15th.  So home, and did get my wife to read, and so to supper and to bed.

16th.  Up, and to the office, after having visited Sir W. Coventry at the Tower, and walked
with him upon the Stone Walk, alone, till other company come to him, and had very good discourse
with him.  At noon home, where my wife and Jane gone abroad, and Tom, in order to their buying
of things for their wedding, which, upon my discourse the last night, is now resolved to be
done, upon the 26th of this month, the day of my solemnity for my cutting of the stone, when
my cozen Turner must be with us. His wife was sick, and so I could not see her.  Thence, after
seeing Mr. Sheldon, I to Greenwich by water, and there landed at the King's house, which goes
on slow, but is very pretty.

     [The old palace at Greenwich had just been pulled down, and a new
     building commenced by Charles II., only one wing of which was
     completed, at the expense of L36,000, under the auspices of Webb,
     Inigo Jones's kinsman and executor.  Here we staid talking till to at
night, where I did never drink before since this man come to the house,
though for his pretty wife's sake I do fetch my wine from this, whom I
could not nevertheless get para see to-night, though her husband did seem
to call for her.  So parted here and I home, and to supper and to bed.

17th.  Up, and by water to see Mr. Wren, and then Mr. Williamson, who did shew me the very
original bookes of propositions made by the Commissioners for the Navy, in 1618, to my great
content; but no other Navy papers he could now shew me.  Thence to Westminster by water and
to the Hall, where Mrs. Michell do surprize me with the news that Doll Lane is suddenly brought
to bed at her sister's lodging, and gives it out that she is married, but there is no such
thing certainly, she never mentioning it before, but I have cause to rejoice that I have not
seen her a great while, she having several times desired my company, but I doubt to an evil
end.  Thence to the Exchequer, where W. Hewer come to me, and after a little business did go
by water home, and there dined, and took my wife by a hackney to the King's playhouse, and
saw "The Coxcomb," the first time acted, but an old play, and a silly one, being acted only
by the young people.  Here met cozen Turner and The. So parted there from them, and home by
coach and to my letters at the office, where pretty late, and so to supper and to bed.  I therefore
longed to see her, but did not till after dinner, that my wife and I going by coach, she went
with us to Holborne, where we set her down.  She is a mighty proper maid, and pretty comely,
but so so; but hath a most pleasing tone of voice, and speaks handsomely, but hath most great
hands, and I believe ugly; but very well dressed, and good clothes, and the maid I believe
will please me well enough.  Thence to visit Ned Pickering and his lady, and Creed and his
wife, but the former abroad, and the latter out of town, gone to my Lady Pickering's in Northamptonshire,
upon occasion of the late death of their brother, Oliver Pickering, a youth, that is dead of
the smallpox.  So my wife and I to Dancre's to see the pictures; and thence to Hyde Park, the
first time we were there this year, or ever in our own coach, where with mighty pride rode
up and down, and many coaches there; and I thought our horses and coach as pretty as any there,
and observed so to be by others.  Here staid till night, and so home, and to the office, where
busy late, and so home to supper and to bed, with great content, but much business in my head
of the office, which troubles me.

19th.  So home, to supper, and to bed.

21st (Lord's day).  So by water (H. Russell coming for me) home to dinner, where W. Howe comes
to dine with me; and after dinner propounds to me my lending him L500, to help him to purchase
a place--the Master of the Patent Office, of Sir Richard Piggott.  I did give him a civil answer,
but shall think twice of it; and the more, because of the changes we are like to have in the
Navy, which will not make it fit for me to divide the little I have left more than I have done,
God knowing what my condition is, I having not attended, and now not being able to examine
what my state is, of my accounts, and being in the world, which troubles me mightily.  He gone,
I to the office to enter my journall for a week.  At night my wife to read to me, and then
to supper, where Pelling comes to see and sup with us, and I find that he is assisting my wife
in getting a licence to our young people to be married this Lent, which is resolved shall be
done upon Friday next, my great day, or feast, for my being cut of the stone.  So after supper
to bed, my eyes being very bad.

22nd.  The Duke of York mightily satisfied with it; and so away home, where my wife troubled
at my being so late abroad, poor woman! though never more busy, but I satisfied her; and so
begun to put things in order for my journey to-morrow, and so, after supper, to bed.

23rd.  After supper, we fell to talk of spirits and apparitions, whereupon many pretty, particular
stories were told, so as to make me almost afeard to lie alone, but for shame I could not help
it; and so to bed and, being sleepy, fell soon to rest, and so rested well.

24th.  It consists of three upright stones and an
     overlying one, and forms a small chamber open in front.  It is
     supposed to have been the centre of a group of monuments indicating
     the burial-place of the Belgian settlers in this part of Britain.  So homeward, and stopped again at Captain Allen's, and
there 'light, and sent the coach and Gibson home, and I and Coney staid;
and there comes to us Mrs. Jowles, who is a very fine, proper lady, as
most I know, and well dressed.  Here was also a gentleman, one Major
Manly, and his wife, neighbours; and here we staid, and drank, and talked,
and set Coney and him to play while Mrs. Jowles and I to talk, and there
had all our old stories up, and there I had the liberty to salute her
often, and pull off her glove, where her hand mighty moist, and she mighty
free in kindness to me, and je do not at all doubt that I might have had
that that I would have desired de elle had I had time to have carried her
to Cobham, as she, upon my proposing it, was very willing to go, for elle
is a whore, that is certain, but a very brave and comely one.  Here was a
pretty cozen of hers come in to supper also, of a great fortune,
daughter-in-law to this Manly, mighty pretty, but had now such a cold, she
could not speak.  Here mightily pleased with Mrs. Jowles, and did get her
to the street door, and there to her su breasts, and baiser her without
any force, and credo that I might have had all else, but it was not time
nor place.  Here staid till almost twelve at night, and then with a
lanthorn from thence walked over the fields, as dark as pitch, and mighty
cold, and snow, to Chatham, and Mr. Coney with great kindness to me: and
there all in bed before I come home, and so I presently to bed.

25th.

27th.  Up, and did a little business, Middleton and I, then; after drinking a little buttered
ale, he and Huchinson and: I took coach, and, exceeding merry in talk, to Dartford: Middleton
finding stories of his own life at Barbadoes, and up and down at Venice, and elsewhere, that
are mighty pretty, and worth hearing; and he is a strange good companion, and; droll upon the
road, more than ever I could have thought to have been in him.  Here we dined and met Captain
Allen of Rochester, who dined with us, and so went on his journey homeward, and we by and by
took coach again and got home about six at night, it being all the morning as cold, snowy,
windy, and rainy day, as any in the whole winter past, but pretty clear in the afternoon. 
I find all well, but my wife abroad with Jane, who was married yesterday, and I to the office
busy, till by and by my wife comes home, and so home, and there hear how merry they were yesterday,
and I glad at it, they being married, it seems, very handsomely, at Islington; and dined at
the old house, and lay in our blue chamber, with much company, and wonderful merry.  The Turner
and Mary Batelier bridesmaids, and Talbot Pepys and W. Hewer bridesmen.  Anon to supper and
to bed, my head a little troubled with the muchness of the business I have upon me at present.
So to bed.

28th (Lord's day).  Lay long talking with pleasure with my wife, and so up and to the Office
with Tom, who looks mighty smug upon his marriage, as Jane also do, both of whom I did give
joy, and so Tom and I at work at the Office all the morning, till dinner, and then dined, W.
Batelier with us; and so after dinner to work again, and sent for Gibson, and kept him also
till eight at night, doing much business.  And so, that being done, and my journal writ, my
eyes being very bad, and every day worse and worse, I fear: but I find it most certain that
stronge drinks do make my eyes sore, as they have done heretofore always; for, when I was in
the country, when my eyes were at the best, their stronge beere would make my eyes sore: so
home to supper, and by and by to bed.

29th.  But I, in the midst of the sermon, did go out, and walked all alone, round to Deptford,
thinking para have seen the wife of Bagwell, which I did at her door, but I could not conveniently
go into her house, and so lost my labour: and so to the King's Yard, and there my boat by order
met me; and home, where I made my boy to finish the my manuscript, and so to supper and to
bed my new chamber-maid, that comes in the room of Jane; is come, Jane and Tom lying at their
own lodging this night: the new maid's name is Matt, a proper and very comely maid .  .  .
This day also our cook-maid Bridget went away, which I was sorry for; but, just at her going
she was found to be a thief, and so I was the less trouble for it; but now our whole house
will, in a manner, be new which, since Jane is gone, I am not at all sorry for, for that my
late differences with my wife about poor Deb. will not be remembered.  So to bed after supper,
and to sleep with great content.  After some talk of the business of the navy more with him,
I away and to the Office, where all the morning; and Sir W. Pen, the first time that he hath
been here since his being last sick, which, I think, is two or three months; and I think will
be the last that he will be here as one of the Board, he now inviting us all to dine with him,
as a parting dinner, on Thursday next, which I am glad of, I am sure; for he is a very villain.
At noon home to dinner, where, and at the office, all the afternoon, troubled at what I have
this morning heard, at least my mind full of thoughts upon it, and so at night after supper
to bed.  Thence home, and there find Mr Sheres, for whom I find my moher of late to talk with
mighty kindness; and particularly he hath shewn himself to be a poet, and that she do mightily
value him for.  He did not stay to dine with us, but we to dinner; and then, in the afternoon,
my wife being very well dressed by her new maid, we abroad, to make a visit to Mrs. Pickering;
but she abroad again, and so we never yet saw her.

