An idea came to Charley. Blowing away the remaining dust and ashes, Charley once more began
an examination of the little excavation. Inch by inch he scrutinized the surface of the pit.
He found it partly baked. Suddenly he gave a cry. He had found the distinct prints of some
one's fingers. On the second side of the excavation he found more prints, and the third side
yielded still others. Carefully Charley chopped out the incriminating bits of clay. When he
laid them side by side and examined them under his microscope, he found they had been made,
not by one person, but by three. Apparently each side of the pit had been fashioned by a different
man.

Chapter XXVII

Trapped

While Charley was turning the matter over in his mind, the forester suddenly appeared. Charley
gave a glad cry when he saw him.

"Did you get them all out?" he asked anxiously.

"All will be out in a short time," was the reply. "Morton and his big gang crossed directly
into the other valley when I came here with my crew. As soon as we had finished your job here,
we hustled over to the other valley. The fires there had spread considerably, but as there
was little wind and we had a big force of men, we quickly got them under control. The minute
I was satisfied we had them in hand, I came back to see how you were. Jim is in charge over
there, so everything will be all right. How are you?"

"All O.K.," said Charley, "but I guess I must have been about all in when you got here. I don't
remember much about it."

"Yes, you were about gone. We got to you just in time. Now tell me what you know about this fire."

The two men sat down in the shade and Charley told his chief all that had happened to him since
the two had parted on the preceding evening. When he showed the forester the marks in the clay,
the forester was elated.

"He's a pretty clever rascal who doesn't trip himself up somewhere," he said. "It's an easy
guess who your three fire bugs are. I have a very great suspicion that the thumb-prints in
that ball of clay I took from your secret camp will match up with some of these marks, and
that both sets of prints will correspond with the marks on the thumbs of one Bill Collins,
though I didn't know that he was in the neighborhood at present. And it's just as safe a bet
that another set of those marks will match the ends of Lumley's thumbs. If only he had been
as considerate as his friend Collins, and left his calling cards behind him, we'd have a complete
case against him."

"We have," cried Charley, leaping to his feet in sudden excitement. "Lumley left his thumb-prints
in the putty he stuck in his window-sash. I never thought of them until this moment."

"Excellent!" cried the forester. "I suspect we can find the duplicates for this third set of
prints only when we lay hands on Henry Collins. But I have a strong suspicion we'll have a
chance to make that comparison very soon."

"How?" asked Charley eagerly. "What do you mean? Have the police made any arrests?"

"I don't know," replied the forester. "But this is the situation. 

Before, they would have liked pushed through, but now she could not miss a step, a cold shiver
rippled through her body, she dared not look at the wolves.

The child had never seen a wolf, but it had to hear them howl in the woods to Koltorp, and
she knew the wolves were the most terrible monster, they were much
worse than Basilisk.

The pastor was fresh that morning, as the little girl had ever seen him before. He grabbed them
by the collar of her fur coat and said:

"So, now I hold you, Nora Whirlwind, hineinfällst so you do not.

You've got to the pit , Look down though you're only a child, so you if you are old again, the
youth can tell that we here at Lövdala in one night, two wolves and
a fox in our mine have caught.

"

Now she stood at the edge of the pit and looked down at last.

The pit was a square, continue with planks clad hole like a fountain,
just a lot.

The little girl looked into it for the big monsters with terrible
jaws, in which such little girl as she could disappear for a bite.

But they discovered they could not; She turned her head back and looked at the priest.

"Look into the corners," he said.

Once again, she leaned forward. It was quite dark in the pit, but now they could something different.
Four animals were down there, in every corner of, and all sat motionless
there, only her eyes that she looked up to sunlight and human sparkled.

In

the corner just before her lay the fox, who was no bigger than a sofa cushion. In the next Corner
was an animal as large as a big shaggy dog.

In the third corner was the duck was firm and straight on their two feet wide, and the fourth
corner with one out of the big shaggy dogs.

The perfect silence was very strange and scary down there, and the little girl behaved is also
silent as all the others, as they stepped back from the edge of the
pit.

When all had looked down sufficiently, came up the men, to consult. The Wolves had indeed killed, but
they did not know how to accomplish it.

Of course it would have been easy to shoot them, but when blood flowed into the pit, this was
useless, then you could never catch an animal in it.
If it is otherwise is only a fox, a man jumped into the pit, "said
the fox a blow to the head that he lost consciousness, laid him then
a loop round the waist up and let him go.

If you jumped to a fox,
no danger was there, but if two live wolves were in the pit, that
was a completely different matter.

The long Bengt took the stick,
which he used when he said the fox the blow, with whom he made him
unconscious. He stepped to the edge of the pit, looked down, shook
the head and then went back to the others.

Now one of the servants
took a rope and tied a racing animal snare. presented with this he
is the pit and let the loop down tight before a wolf. If he succeeded,
to graze the noose over the head of the wolf, the latter could be
pulled up easily.

They reached the road, jumped into the forester's car and sped away to Lumley's house. Half
an hour later they entered the forester's office, carefully carrying a window-sash. As the
forester reached his desk, the man in charge handed him a message from the state police at
Maple Gap. It read, "Have arrested three men who came out of the forest here and tried to board
a train. They give fictitious names, but no doubt two of the men are wanted. Third has gold
teeth and scar over right cheek. Do you want him?"

"Do we want him?" echoed the forester, as he began to write an answer. But
now they have great fear, because this Sjöskoga was so very great. Now if only Liljecrona do not think
she was not fine enough for the provost.

You understand, she was quite desperate. I did my best to reassure her as best I could, and
promised her also Liljecrona feel concerning his plans to the tooth. On next day, I said straight
out Liljecrona that I would have seen through the relationship, and asked him why he did actually
make the connection is not legally binding. As he said quite frankly, to he was too poor. If his
servant, as he put it, marry, then would yes she the woman, and then he had to keep their operation
to another maid. 'For the You can be assured, "he said, 'then no cows to milk it more and
also helps Pekka not on the field. Of course I will marry her as soon as I funds to have.
" I said, if he would now like to Sjöskoga ... 'Oh, Sjöskoga,' he replied, 'I will not have.
I have in mind to resign. '"

Örneclou silent. He could distinguish the minister's wife in the dark and barely heard also,
the knitting needles is no longer rattle. It was his almost uncanny remendy. Maybe he had here, if
not a crime, but after all, a very great imprudence be guilty.

"Now I have the woman said base everything I know," he began again.
"And I would like Ask you to make you not so much about them. When he became a patrol again, or
a member of Jim's crew, for he believed that Mr. Marlin would grant him that wish, he knew
that he would stand on a par with the men in their own estimation. So he waved good-bye to
the departing trucks with a mixture of happiness and regret.

But he was not allowed many hours to indulge in either emotion. Very early next morning the
telephone, which Ranger Morton had promptly repaired, began to ring. Charley answered the call
and received a brusque order from the forester to remain at the tower, as the forester was
coming out to see him.

"I wonder if Mr. Marlin ever sleeps," said Charley to himself. "He's probably on his way here
now and I'm hardly out of bed. I'll make him a cup of coffee and some toast anyway."

But when Charley came to make the toast, he could find only three slices of bread. Lumley had
cleaned him out of food. It seemed no time at all to Charley before he heard the chugging of
the forester's motor in the valley. A short time afterward two men ascended to the cabin. Charley
was surprised.

"Let me introduce you to the Chief Forester of Pennsylvania," said Mr. Marlin. Charley was
suddenly abashed. He held out his hand and responded to the Commissioner's greeting, but was
at a joss for anything further to say. He thought of his toast and coffee and was more than
ever embarrassed, because he had only three slices to offer. Nevertheless, he set what he had
before his guests.

"I'm awfully sorry this is all I can offer you," he said, "but I had some visitors yesterday
who cleaned me out of food."

"So I have heard," replied the Chief Forester, with a smile.

"You will be glad to know, Charley," said the forester, "that those same visitors have confessed
to their crime, or rather Lumley did. When we produced the thumb-prints in the putty and in
the clay and compared them with Lumley's thumbs, he made a clean breast of everything. It won't
surprise you to learn that he set the previous fires in this virgin timber. He wants to be
state's evidence."

"Excellent!" cried Charley. "They won't burn any more forests--or rob any more cabins. By the
way, Mr. Marlin, did you bring me any more supplies?"

"No," said the forester.

Charley looked vastly perplexed, but said nothing. He didn't want to bother the forester, but
how he was to live without food he could not imagine. Evidently his face must have mirrored
his thoughts, for the forester, after studying Charley's countenance, burst into a laugh. And my mother had
got wind of the affair, and she begged and begged me to but not my luck throw from me. Oh, and
not only my mother, no, the brothers and sisters and Cousins! I really did not know earlier
that I such a big family have. "

"The have indeed" quite right, "said Mother Margreta. She still could not forever ... "

But Liljecrona she interrupted quickly.

He was now almost in the room to and fro, and pressed the clenched fist with a kind of tragicomic
desperation on the forehead.

"But my dear Finnish farmers, mother Margreta! Do you know what they were doing when they learned
that I would go away? Trees they have felled the woods and I went to the front door to a new
parish house! My grades have not increased, but they have them on the one way or another sought
to improve. One day there was a new Elchhaut in my sled, and on another day I found a tub of
butter at my door. They did not say much; when I met with them, but when I stood in the pulpit,
were all eyes, the the great and the small, fixed on me, and I understood
what she thought.

So they thought: 'You can not want to leave us. Then it would have been better you would not
come. " Now I knew at last that she wanted to keep me happy. "

He
came to Margreta mother sat down beside her and took one of its processed
hard Hands in his.

"Oh! Mr. Marlin," cried Charley, "you don't mean it honestly?"

"I sure do. And there is nothing temporary about your appointment. You are a full-fledged ranger.
You have earned the place and I congratulate you heartily on having won it." He held out his
hand and clasped Charley's warmly.

"Now, that is all I have to say to you," concluded the forester, "but I think the Commissioner
wants to speak a few words with you."

Charley turned to the Chief Forester and stood expectant.

"Mr. Marlin tells me that it is your ambition to become a forester," said the Commissioner.

"It is," replied Charley. 

Sven did not answer, but it was dark, as if that were the worst question that could be made
of him.

"Had he not afraid?"

"Yes."

"He thinks he has the responsibility for the steel mill?"

"Oh no!"
But eventually brought Altringer the truth but out of it. Sven was
stayed, because the manager was hanging in the office fiddle on the
wall. As he had while he was alone, each Day can play it.

"Oh, he
plays the violin so much?" Asked Altringer. He Come, let us ask the
administrator, Lend him his violin again, then he does something for
me. "

Oh, before that Sven had no fear! He agreed with the strings
and played the violin is an old song, the he had learned from the
forging. Mr. Marlin tells
me that you came into the forest absolutely ignorant of forestry practice, but that in a short
time by great application to your work and by study at night you have become one of the best
men he has. All you lack is experience. Time will remedy that. If you could become a forester
through a continuation of such study and work, would you like to do it? Mr. Marlin is willing
to teach you the technical branches that you would study if you went to Mont Alto. He will
take you into his office in winter and you can assist him in technical work from time to time
in the forest, thus obtaining a complete training for the position of forester. What about
it? Not that I always
been distasteful, but I have not asked for it earlier because I wanted my Professional staff
to meet. But when Sjöskoga - "

This broke the pastor, he stood straight in front of the pastor's
daughter and looked at her. Now we must hurry back to headquarters, Ranger
Russell. I hope that some day I shall be able to call you Forester Russell."

Charley's heart was too full for utterance. He grasped the proffered hand and wrung it, but
was afraid to say a word, for a big lump had come into his throat. I have no one but you. If it is Live a negotiated
that would have a right to you, then it would be like. But I see not see why I should assign
you a dead man. "

In Maja Lisa's voice must have some located, which moved him. I tell you it makes a fellow feel mighty
big to think he's going to have a hand in making life easier for so many million people."