"Here!" Toby was disconcerted. "What you talking about? I only said the time." He seized her,
and Sally struggled as of old. But she could not resist him. There was too great a discrepancy
in their strength, and in their will, when her own will so dangerously betrayed her. Toby held
her closer and closer. His grip was tyrannic. Sally's breath was short, sobbing; her eyes were
again closed, and her lips tragically pressed together. Her face might have been marble. And
as he held her fast, Toby forced back Sally's head and many times kissed her hotly and possessively.
"What's the row?" he demanded. She heard the savagery of his tone, and felt his warm breath
on her cheek; and some undertone of his husky voice vibrated in her ear. "Ain't you well, Sal?"
he whispered. "I never meant I wanted to go home. I don't. You know that. I only said the time.
Only ... how long had we got? Sally, old girl...."

"All right, all right!" Sally did not know what she was saying. Her brows were knitted in distraction.
Then: "Oh, any old time...." And as she spoke temptation suddenly swept her with a tingling
heat, and her mouth was dry and her body tense with the excitement of the overwhelming moment.
Her heart beat so fast that she was quite breathless. With an impulse too strong for resistance
she returned her lips to Toby's, half-crying, and in vehement surrender. She could see no further,
could endure no more. At the withdrawal she cried gaspingly: "I needn't ... needn't go home
at all ... to-night. Nobody ... expects me. Toby!"

x

In the morning Sally awoke with a heavy heart. Foreboding was more gloomy than she had ever
known it. The hotel bedroom in which they had slept was very small, and the walls towered above
her. It was a dirty room, and the bright sunlight that came through the slats of the blinds
revealed the thick London dust in the curtains and on the walls. Toby was by her side, fast
asleep. She had no sense of wrong-doing--it never troubled Sally, who judged her own conduct
by exceptional standards; but she was again full of fear. Lightly she touched Toby's thick
strong hair, and kissed it, half raised from her pillow; and bending over him. Her love was
undiminished, but her fear of him was suddenly increased. And as she withdrew her hand and
sat upright she caught sight of the wedding-ring which she had taken from her purse and slipped
onto her finger before they reached the hotel. They had come without luggage, and it had been
an impulse of caution which had led her to wear the ring. Slowly she turned it round and round
upon her finger, not recalling that it was Gaga's ring, not considering her use of it an added
dishonour to Gaga, but looking at it abstractedly. The ring meant so much, and so little. Her
marriage had meant so much and so little. A faint smile stole to her lips and played about them.

A stirring of Toby's body made her glance quickly down. His eyes were open, and he was staring
solemnly at her. His hair was all roughened, and his dark face was puffed with sleep. He looked
like her big baby, irresistibly lovable. The smile deepened; but she did not speak. She made
no movement at all; and Toby, stretching out a lazy arm, put it round her waist.

"Ugh!" he said, grunting with satisfaction. With calm pleasure she enjoyed the knowledge of
his great muscular strength; but she did not respond to him at all. Toby jerked towards her,
so that his head rested against her side, and Sally mechanically crooked her arm lightly over
his further cheek. Toby blinked a little, and yawned, and looked at the sunshine. "Wha's time?"
he gaped. "Oh-o-oo."

"Dunno. Oo, bless me!" Sally roused herself. "I mustn't be late." She reached out for Toby's
watch, on the table at his side of the bed, and held it up to the light. The time was half-past-seven.
She looked at the old watch, a cheap one with a loud tick. "I'll give you a watch, one day,"
she said, condescendingly. "A watch."

"Here!" Toby's voice changed. He caught her wrist sharply--so sharply that Sally almost dropped
the watch on the quilt. "What's that?" His tone was so strange that she was surprised, and
tried to follow his glance. It rested upon her hand--upon the wedding ring. Sally's blood froze.

"Oh, that?" she said, with an attempt to be easy. "Can't come into a place like this.... I
mean, without a ring of some sort."

"Oh?" asked Toby, sternly. "You know all about it, don't you?"

"Well?" Sally was frightened, but simulating defiance. "It's true, isn't it?"

"Where'd you get it?"

"Shop." She was so afraid that she was insolent.

"I s'pose you're used to this sort of thing," cried Toby. He sat up beside her, his face deeply
crimsoned, his expression accusing. "Used to it, are you?"

"No!" answered Sally.

"What did you get it for?"

Sally could not hide her trembling. She was blanched, and her shoulder was raised as if to
avoid a blow. It came. Toby released her wrist, and seized her shoulder. Roughly, he so shoved
her away from him that she was thrown upon her face. She scrambled out of bed, and stood panting
before him, while Toby, kicking down the bedclothes, seemed crouched upon the bed as if he
might murderously spring at her. She watched his hands, fascinated by an imagination of their
grip upon her throat.

"What did you get it for?" Toby repeated, in a voice of madness.

"To come here."

"Liar!" He leapt out of bed, and Sally, in a panic, turned to fly. She could not escape. Toby
held her shoulder again. Again he savagely pushed her, so that she fell against the wall, her
head striking it. Sally slid to the floor, shrinking from him, terrified now that death seemed
so near. She did not scream. She could still have done so; but it was not her instinct to cry
out. "You liar!" Toby said again. "What did you get it for? Christ!" He dragged Sally once
again to her feet. His fingers were bruising her arm. She was physically helpless and half-stunned.
"Is that the way you make your living?" demanded Toby, beside himself.

"No!" It was Sally's turn to shout. "No, you fool. You fool!"

"You dirty little liar! It is!"

"It's not!" cried Sally. With a tremendous effort for self-control she checked a sob that would
have plunged her into hysteria. "I'm married!"

Toby fell away, his mouth open. The release sent Sally against the wall once more. He stood
looking at her, his face grey, his eyes smouldering.

"You tell me that?" he said. "Married!"

"Yes. Married."

He did not speak. He eyed her with a sombre and threatening appraisement. Then, more quietly,
he went on:

"You can't be. You're mine. You belong to me. Nobody else can't have you!"

"Nobody else can have me. But I'm married, all right," Sally told him. She was recovering some
composure. When she moistened her lips she glanced sideways at him, like lightning. Toby had
not struck her. He was too surprised.

"Married.... And you come here with me. Liar!"

"My husband's away.... We don't.... His mother's ill. I don't love him--never did. We were
only married a few days ago. I wrote to you. You never got the letter."

"Oh, that's why...." Toby's tone was vengeful. His fists were clenched.

"See, Toby, I only love you. Only you. But he's rich. We.... I don't sleep with him, Toby.
He's never...."

"You liar!" Toby approached her. Sally could see his teeth glistening.

"I swear it's true. Toby!"

Toby suddenly caught her a blow on the arm which sent her spinning across the tiny room. She
held on to the mantelpiece to save a fall. They were both panting now; but Toby was like a
bulldog. The colour was returning to his cheeks. He was watching Sally, as she was watching
him. She was ready to dodge a further blow; but she knew that if he was determined to kill
her nothing would stop him. She was filled with abject fear at her own physical powerlessness.
But by now her wits were alert again. Toby made a movement, and Sally started, ready to dart
away. He did not come nearer. A stupidity seemed to descend upon him.

A loud rap at the door startled them both.

"Hot water. Half-past seven. And less noise there!" came a loud voice. The whole scene was
transformed by the interruption. Both became listless.

"Married!" Toby said, as if to himself. He shook his head.

"I love you," Sally told him.

He sat dully upon the bed. Timidly, for fear of another outburst, Sally approached him. At
last, standing by his side, she held Toby's head to her breast, kissing him with little fierce
kisses that must have carried their message to his heart. At last Toby's arms were raised,
and around her, and she was pressed to him once more. Their lips met. Toby made a muffled,
snarling sound that was a mixture of love and hatred and masterfulness. He held her with ferocity.
Then, as suddenly, his muscles relaxed, until Sally by repeated endearments baffled his indignation
and softened his anger. She was struggling with all her might to keep possession of him, moving
each instant with more assurance among his dull thoughts and his easily-roused passions. As
the moments passed she knew that she had kept him, and at this knowledge her own passion rose
until it equalled Toby's.

"My love," she whispered. "My dear love."

xi

Later in the day, when she was able to think of all that had happened, Sally had an unexpected
glimpse of the situation. She realised that she was a victor. She was almost too satisfied.
She had no shame, no contrition; she merely knew that if she might still keep Toby her marriage
with Gaga would be bearable. She had none of the turmoil of the conventional married woman
who takes a lover; but then she had never been trained to be scrupulous. She was still young
enough to be intoxicated by her own prowess. She could manage Gaga; she could manage Toby;
she could manage the business--there was no end to her power. More than anything else, it was
necessity to her to gratify her sense of power. If that necessity had been removed she would
have known herself for a reckless fool; but the demand for power obliterated every inconvenient
thought of risk. As for a sense of honour, Sally had been born without one.

All the girls looked at her "very old-fashioned," as they would have said, when she arrived
in the morning; but as the day wore on, and there was no further telephone message for her
from Gaga, they began to forget what had happened on the previous day. Sally worked like a
mouse, her brain exulting in its vivid memories of her time with Toby; and she did not think
of Gaga at all. She only hoped that he would not come to the office. She was feeling too tired
to deal effectively with any peevishness from Gaga; although, the causes of her hysteria having
been removed, she was not likely to repeat the failure of that other restless night. A heaviness
hung upon her as the day wore on; a kind of thick readiness for sleep. She yawned over her
work. The workroom seemed stuffy, the day unusually long. The nervous strain of the past few
days was reacting, and even Sally's vitality was shaken by the consequences of her successive
excitements. When tea-time came she was relieved. But there had been no news of Gaga, or from
him: not even a message through Miss Summers. Miss Summers grew more and more fidgetty and
anxious as the hours went by.

"I do hope nothing's happened," she clucked. "So funny not having heard. I wonder if I ought
to telephone to ask. Perhaps Mr. Bertram's ill. Did you see him last night? D'you think I ought
to ring up? I'm so worried. It's so strange, and Madam being so ill, and that."

"I shouldn't worry," urged Sally. "He'll 'phone fast enough if there's anything to say. Look
at yesterday."

"Yes; but perhaps he's ill himself."

"Sick," commented Sally. "He's bilious, you know."

Miss Summers shook her head, and sighed.

"Yes," she readily agreed. "I'm afraid he's not the man his mother is."

They had hardly finished speaking when Miss Summers was called to the telephone. She was away
for two or three minutes; and returned with tears streaming down her cheeks. All their pink
plumpness was softened into a blur of tearful weakness. She was bent and dissolved under disaster.
As she made her way up the long workroom to her place the girls all craned their necks to look
at Miss Summers, and one or two--the kinder ones--rose to see if they could do anything to
comfort her. But it was to Sally that Miss Summers turned, and within an inch of Sally's cheeks
that she shook her tear-stained face. At first she could not speak; but grimaced like a child,
as if her cold nose was smarting. Sally was first to hear the news; but all of them had known
it from the first glimpse of Miss Summers in tears.

"She's gone," cried Miss Summers, "Poor soul, she's gone. And what will happen to us I don't know."

"We'll be all right," Sally murmured, with singular confidence. A shock had slightly discomposed
her, but it was not a shock of sorrow for the death of Madame Gala. Rather was it a passing
thrill of dismay at her own responsibility, which her reassuring speech had been intended to
remove.

"She's dead.... Madam's dead...." ran through the workroom. One girl hurried to tell Miss Rapson
and the workers in her department, who came crowding immediately into the room, agog with excitement.
They all gathered together in a body, and then in detached groups, talking fast.

"I s'pose we'll all have a day off for the funeral," somebody said with a giggle.

"Oo, yes. Sure to. And have to wear mourning," added another girl, more solemnly and hopefully.

Sally stood, as if by right, with Miss Summers and Miss Rapson. She was definitely a principal
figure in the scene. Just as the other girls began to notice this, and murmuringly to comment
upon it as a piece of characteristic impudence, Miss Summers had a quick return of memory.
Gesticulating with helpless impatience, she said:

"Oh, Sally; I'd quite forgotten. Mr. Bertram is ill. And the nurse said he was asking to see
you. Yes, asking to see ... Miss Minto."

Asking to see Sally Minto! There was a thrill among the girls that was even greater than the
one which they had felt at the news of Madam's death. Gaga asking to see Sally Minto! Whew!
Everything became electric. Rose Anstey coloured deeply, and turned upon her heel. Sally knew
they were all staring at her, like fish in an aquarium. With something approaching dignity
she ignored them and directly addressed Miss Summers.

"Did you mean he wanted me to go at once?" she asked.

"Yes, child. Yes. At once. Better run along now...." Miss Summers was distracted, tearful,
inclined to kiss Sally, and altogether without knowledge of what she was doing or what she
ought to do. "Wait.... Tell him--perhaps I ought to write a letter? Oh, dear! I don't know...."
She pressed her fingers to her temples. "No, tell him how sorry we all are. Say if he wants
me.... Run along, run along!"

"Yes, Miss Summers."

In a very leisurely manner, Sally rolled up her pinafore and put her work away. Then she washed
and dressed herself to go out. She walked back through the workroom like a queen, sedately
bidding Miss Summers "good-afternoon" and smiling a cool farewell to the girls. The buzz of
their amazed whispering followed her into the waiting-room. She felt their eyes like stings
in her back. On the way downstairs the memory of the scene and an understanding of the girls'
feelings made her laugh. Well, that was that; and she was face to face with her problem in
its entirety. Unconsciously, Sally walked more erect.

xii

Sally never went back to the workroom. She hurried from it to the old house in Kensington in
which the Merricks had lived for years; and as she saw the house, so black with dust, and the
steps that led up to the heavy front door, even Sally's heart quailed. She hesitated for several
minutes before going up the steps, and loitered there, a little figure in a grey dress, trim
and chic, but not at all the girl to take control of such a mansion and of the difficulties
which lay within. She could not tell what a mass of custom the house indicated; but her instinct
was enough to make her feel extraordinarily small, extraordinarily untrained and incapable.
It had been very well for her to suppose that everything could be seized and controlled at
a glance. The reality was too solid for a longer dream. Thoughtless, over-confident as her
fantasy had been, she had the sense which a child has when a running man comes threateningly
near--of a great shape, of unexpected size and dangerousness, looming out of the focussed picture,
and setting all previous conceptions at nought. Here was this giant house, and Madam lying
dead in it, and servants who would resent her appearance, and Gaga; and Sally was such a little
girl in the face of a definite trial. She was a little girl, and she would never be able to
deal with what lay ahead. It was a long, devastating spasm of doubt, like a trembling of the
earth. The house towered above her, huge and gloomy; and other houses, equally oppressive,
continued from the Merricks' house, with basements and railings and great black fronts and
lace curtains, until the road turned and its end was unseen. And Sally, who had lived all her
life in small flats and single rooms, was shaken. Her heart sank. She entered the house. Her
head was high, from pride; but her qualms were intense. An atmosphere of solemn melancholy
made everybody speak in low tones. She had difficulty in remaining calm.

All the rooms were large rooms, filled with large furniture and old pictures and prints. Madam
had made her home for comfort; and the taste which had marked her other work was here subdued.
An old clock ticked steadily; and if there were no ancient horrors at least the house within
did not belie its serious front. Sally was like a little doll, shrinking under the weight of
such solid comfort, and not yet able to appraise it in terms of possession and disposal. She
was still shy and timid. Wherever, upon this first entrance, she looked round for encouragement,
she found none. During that first evening she was so miserable that she could have run away.
She was like a child that goes for the first time to school, and feels bereft of every familiar
support and association.

But in the morning Sally found everything better. She saw Gaga's doctor, and she talked to
the three servants. She telephoned to Miss Summers and asked her to come to the house in the
afternoon. She wrote to Mrs. Perce and to Toby. She nursed Gaga and refused to see the dead
body of his mother. Every minute which she spent in the house increased her familiarity with
it; and her youth and smallness captivated the three middle-aged servants, who were glad to
have somebody there whom they could advise. Sally had long been able to behave as somebody
other than a workgirl, and the servants were so well-behaved that they did not make any attempt
to be too much at ease with her. Sally, moreover, looked down with all the contempt of her
class upon women who worked in domestic service--SKIVVIES! She was drawlingly refined with
them, but not grotesquely so, and they respected her.

First in importance among the things which Sally had to seem to arrange was the funeral. She
handed all the details to the undertaker. This showed her to be a general. From the first she
followed the only possible plan--to give carte blanche to those who had to deal with matters
of urgency. Gaga was all the time ill. His mother's death had so broken down his strength and
his self-control that Sally often found him weak with crying; a pathetic figure, in bed, woebegone
and feeble. His delight at seeing her was so violent that he had covered her hands with kisses
before he fell back exhausted upon his pillow. He constantly called for her. The servants noticed
with clucked tongues how feverish was his devotion; but they also recognised Sally's patience.
Sally was angelic to Gaga. She tended him so protectively that one might have thought her loving.
And in the rest of her free time she tried hard to learn about the house. Mistakes she made,
of course, and many of them; but she was still shrewd, and if she was often superficial and
hasty, at least she was alert.

Miss Summers Sally found invaluable. Once Miss Summers had overcome her surprise at the new
order and once she had found that Sally was the old Sally, who relied upon her, she rose to
every call. Her kindness and her generalship were unfailing. She it was who kept the business
moving at a trying time. In her hands orders were filled with the expected promptitude and
the customary excellence. She obsequiously interviewed those who came to be fitted; and her
knowledge of the business enabled her to satisfy these customers and make them understand that
in spite of the extraordinary conditions they could still rely upon proper attention. She was
unsparing of her time and her devotion. She had at last a satisfactory mission.

And all this Sally recognised. While Gaga claimed her attention, and household affairs worried
her, she did not trouble very much about the business. Miss Summers would come in the evening
to Kensington, tell her the news, and give advice upon other matters. The two had long talks
at night. Sally suddenly knew how valuable a friend she had in Miss Summers. She knew the value
of an unselfish readiness to serve; and she herself was generous enough and, in a sense, imaginative
enough not to exploit Miss Summers. There was a good understanding between them. And Sally,
as she looked round at the mahogany furniture in this old house, and saw the dull carpets and
engravings which Madam had gathered together in other days for the suitable adornment of her
rooms, could think of no better repayment than a gift of some of the things which Miss Summers
might prize, and which Sally and Gaga could never use. It was characteristic of her that she
made this definite reservation; but with Gaga's consent she finally made Miss Summers happy
by such a lavish present that Sally might have done many strange things without ever losing
the loyalty of her adjutant.

She slept by herself in a room connected with Gaga's room by an open door. She was thus able
to tend him during his frequent fits of sickness and weakness, which often took the form of
long hypochondriacal attacks; and was at the same time given opportunity for active thought
and planning. Sally was very happy in these days, for nothing gives greater happiness than
incessant occupation that is flattering to the vanity. She walked with a new air, looked about
her with confidence and a sense of ownership. Above all, she had reached that almost super-human
state--she knew herself to be indispensable.

xiii

When Gaga seemed to be well enough, they went out for a time each day, and Sally tried to interest
him in plans for a change of home. He was still so feeble that he was rather listless and querulous;
but when she told him the sort of flat she wanted nearer town, and the sort of furniture, Gaga
caught fire, and became enthusiastic. His eyes glowed. Much more gently than ever before, and
to that extent more tolerably, he kissed her. He proclaimed Sally's genius. Everything she
suggested appeared to him more excellent than the last thing: if she had been a silly girl
she might have been made reckless. But having interested him she became rather afraid of his
eager support. The flat was to be her flat. She did not want Gaga blundering in with enthusiastic
mistakes. And another thing was that the doctor warned her about the dangers of excitement.

"Your husband's not a strong man, Mrs. Merrick," he said. "He's not even a sound man. You don't
want him to get too excited. It's bad for him. Go slow."

"I'll try," agreed Sally. But it was with a shrug. "You see how he is. I mustn't be out of
his sight; and yet something's got to be done."

"You're a very plucky girl," remarked the doctor feebly; and he went away.

Sally's shrug had been sincere. She would have preferred to do everything alone; but to do
so would have been to make Gaga fully as ill as any over-excitement could do. They accordingly
went about together, looking for a flat. They discovered one at last in Mayfair; and decorations
were begun there. It was not a large flat, and the rooms were not all large; but it was cosy,
and the furnishing of it was going to give Sally a satisfaction hard to exceed. The two of
them exulted in the flat. They walked through and through it. They saw the wallpapers and the
paint, and admired everything in the most delicious manner possible.

And then the doctor's warning was justified. Gaga collapsed. He fainted in the flat, overcome
by the smell of paint and the excitement of proprietorship. With the help of one of the painters
Sally took him home in a cab and put him to bed. The doctor arrived, nodded, and was not in
the least surprised or alarmed. Sally was merely to be Gaga's nurse once more. It did not matter
to the doctor, who had no interest in Gaga except as a patient.

"It's rough on you, though," he said to Sally. He was a bald man of fifty, with a cold eye
and a cold, fish-like hand. He was interested in nothing outside his profession and his meals.
To him Sally was a plucky little thing; but Sally could not find that he thought anything more
about her. She shrugged again. "So sorry," said the doctor. "Good-bye."

When he had gone, Sally frowned. Bother! All her plans were interrupted. Her energies were
subdued. Thoughtfully, she began to consider how far she might act alone. She wondered whether
she might persuade Gaga to let her go out in the mornings or the afternoons. He must do so,
and yet she knew he would not like it. Although the decision always lay with her, he had the
sick and nervous man's fussy wish to seem to make a choice. He wanted to be there, to be heard,
to announce Sally's decision in a loud voice as his own.

"What a man he is!" thought Sally. "Big kid. Got to have a say in everything. And he can't!"
The last words were spoken aloud, so vehemently did she feel them. "He can't, because he doesn't
know. O-o-oh!"

She beat one hand upon the other, in a sudden passion. For a moment she had an unexpected return
of hysteria. And as she took two or three fierce paces Sally without warning felt dizzy. She
clung to a chair; and the dizziness immediately passed. It frightened her, none the less, because
she had been feeling unwell for some days, and she had a horror of illness.

"Here, here!" she exclaimed. "None of that. I mustn't get ill. Oh, lor! If I was to get ill
wouldn't there be a shimozzle! Gaga'd go off his head. And everything else--pouf!"

It amused her to realise this. It made her forget the unexplained sick dizziness which had
given rise to her reflections, because the thing which Sally above everything else had always
desired was to be as important as she now found herself. At the age of eighteen she was dominating
a world which she had long since determined to conquer.

xiv

During the week following, Sally had no time for any thing but attendance upon Gaga. She was
herself feeling sick and wretched; and Gaga was very ill indeed. He was sometimes extremely
feeble, so that a lethargy fell upon him and he lay so quiet that Sally believed him to be
asleep. But at her first movement he would unclose his eyes and groan her name, groping with
his finger to detain her. So she sat in his big square bedroom with the drab walls and the
plain furniture, watching the daylight fade and pondering to herself. It was a gloom period,
and it had a perceptible effect upon her vitality. At other times Gaga would rally, would even
sit up and talk in his old stammer, his grey face whitened and sharpened by illness. Always
he demanded her kisses, although at times she had such horror of being made love to by one
so ill that she was pricked by a perfect frenzy of nerves. He would sit by the fire, passing
his thin hand across her shoulders, stooping and caressing her and catching her neck with his
fingers in order to bring her cheek the more submissively to his own. His lips were ever encroaching,
and his fevered clasp was so incessant and so vibrant with overstrung excitement as to create
a sense of repulsion. It was a tyranny, to which Sally listlessly yielded because she had not
the spirit to resist. She also knew that resistance would make him ill again; and however much
she chafed at his kisses she chafed still more at the constant attention demanded by Gaga's
state of health, which kept her ever there and delayed intolerably the execution of those plans
which would have interposed a relief from these intimacies. Then again he would be seized with
fits of vomiting which shook his frame and made him so ill that he had to be helped back to
bed and comforted as if he were a child. It was a weary time, much shorter than it appeared
to be in her slow watching of the clock; and she could not have endured it at all if her resolution
had been less tough. Sometimes, too, Sally knew that she was rather fond of Gaga. Her feeling
for him was a mixture of emotion; but she never actively disliked him, even when she was bored
by his constant show of possessiveness. The truth was that she had grown to be afraid. She
was like a Frankenstein, and her monstrous plan had become too great to be carried through
alone. She was frightened that Gaga would die; and she did not want him to die. He was necessary
to her, because at present he was the key to her scheme of immediate life.

Each evening Miss Summers came; and the tale she brought of orders given and executed was satisfactory.
But even Miss Summers knew that things were not going well. All that practical direction which
Madam had brought to the business was lost. Everything that had given distinction in the choice
of material and style was in danger. There were new purchases to be made, and new designs furnished.
All that vast part in the business which occurred before a customer entered into negotiations
had been managed entirely by Madam, and it was suspended in her absence. Some of this work
was routine, and could be conducted without her; but as the days passed it became evident that
important matters were being delayed, that they were accumulating, that unless something could
be done quickly to check the slide the business would become mechanical and its individuality
be destroyed. Thus Sally learnt that her ambition had led her to grasp at power which she could
not wield. If she had been able to go to work she could have learnt very easily. She had such
quick taste, and such confidence, that, with Miss Summers at her side, in spite of many mistakes,
she could have dealt with much that was now slipping. But she was unable to leave Gaga. When
she tried to explain the needs of the moment to him Gaga turned weakly away, incapable of grasping
more than the fact that she was his wife and that he needed her. At a speech concerning the
business he shrugged his shoulders, and became stupidly ineffective.

One night, when she was in bed, Sally thought of all this, and was first despondent and then
dispirited. The mood intensified. Once it had gripped her she knew no peace. She was in helpless
torment. Before she knew quite what she was doing she had drawn the bedclothes over her head
and was bitterly sobbing. Little disjointed phrases were jerked from her lips in this painful
abandonment to fear and the sense of lonely powerlessness. She was at last unrestrained in
her admission of failure. She did not know ... she did not know. By herself she could do nothing.
And there was nobody to whom she could turn for succour. Her mother was useless, Mrs. Perce
was useless. Her one support was Miss Summers, and Miss Summers this evening had been unable
to hide her trepidation, but had sat licking her lips and blinking her eyes, which held such
concern that she could in no way disguise the cause of her gloom. Miss Summers also, then,
was full of foreboding; and Sally, tied fast here, a child, thrown off her balance by illness
and nervous excitement, had lost confidence in her star.

When she was calm again she slept; but in the morning the preoccupation returned to her, and
her head ached, and the tears filled her eyes as though she were fighting against grief. And
her first visit to Gaga disgusted her and made her feel the more miserable. She had often been
more poignantly affected, but never had she experienced such a sense of complete distaste for
life. She was like a child given an impossible task to perform; and instead of being able to
rise on the wings of her arrogance as she was in the habit of doing, Sally was weighed down
by leaden sickness and fear. She went slowly downstairs to have her breakfast, and sat solitary
in the big brown dining-room which overlooked a square of grass and a high wall. A dismal grey
oppressed the atmosphere, and an autumn chill. She could not eat, could only sniff despairingly
and drink a cup of tea and wander to the fire and lay her forehead against the mantelpiece,
which was cooling indeed, but without comfort. Its hard coldness was unbearable. Sally's arms
crept up as a pillow. She stared downwards at the dead fire.

"O-o-oh!" she groaned bitterly. "I wish I was dead! I do wish I was dead!" And at the sound
of her wretched voice Sally once more gave way completely and began to sob aloud. She was beaten,
and her spirit was gone.

xv

And so more days passed, each filled with a sort of numbing dread. Sally thought of the business,
of her future, of Toby--from whom she had received several letter reflecting his moods of ferociousness
and resentment,--and of the bonds which kept her tied to the house. She knew during all this
time no peace. She grew thinner, and began to take less care of herself. She was not aware
of the beginning of a loss of self-respect, but it was there. She--she who had always been
so strict in regard to her toilette and dress, whatever her state of mind--went down to breakfast
one morning in a kimono which she had found in Madam's wardrobe and shortened for herself.
It was a proof that she no longer cared for her appearance. She lay through the nights often
only half-asleep, in a stupor which presently led her to an attitude almost of indifference
to the needs of the day. And for the rest of the time Sally was so lethargic that it one morning
occurred to her to think that she had caught from Gaga whatever was the unnamed illness from
which he was suffering. The thought once arisen, flew to her head. It became a horror. She
had heard of bad fruit corrupting fruit that was sound and this was a new preoccupation for
her. When Gaga would have kissed her lips she turned away in sudden nausea, fighting instinctively
against a subjection which her indifference had hitherto made allowable. And she had several
times to invent an excuse to be alone, so active had her distress become; and in these absences
she would walk vehemently up and down the dining-room until she was forced by exhaustion to
sit or by a message from Gaga to return to his room.

"Why, whatever's come to me?" she demanded. "It's awful! I'm ill."

The doctor called every day to see Gaga, and spoke as though there was a definite improvement
in his patient's health. The medicine Gaga was taking would finally give him strength. Already
he was beginning to eat more, and beginning also to retain what he had eaten.

"It's nerves, you know," the doctor told Sally one day. "Mere nerves. Your husband's run down.
He's not strong. He's had a shock. As soon as he's well enough he ought to be got away for
a holiday. You take him away. About the end of next week, if he makes good progress. Take him
to the sea."

"He hates it," cried Sally. "Upsets him."

"Oh." The doctor considered. "Where did you go for your honeymoon? Penterby--well, that would
do, if you can take drives to the sea. He doesn't want too bracing a place. And now, Mrs. Merrick,
I've been noticing you lately. You're run down, too. We can't have you ill. You've been very
plucky; but you've had a great strain, and all this nursing has worn you out. I'm going to
have a look at you...."

Sally was conscious of a sinking of the heart.

"I'm quite all right!" she protested. She could not have told what intuition had created this
panic; but her heart had begun instantly to thump in her breast, and she became, as she had
done once before, almost dizzy. She could not say anything more. She submitted to his examination,
and answered his questions. It was an ordeal, and she watched his serious face with its cold
eyes, and felt his chilly hand, and guessed at what he would say. The doctor seemed appallingly
slow, appallingly deliberate and immovable and ruthless in his perceptions. She was terrified.
The room wavered before her; and her fright grew greater and greater. He was very patient.
She felt strange trust in him; but always the same dread, which made her teeth chatter a little.
Soon he had finished; and then he looked at her with a slight smile and a nod.

"Yes," he said, reflectively. "Oh, there's nothing to be alarmed about at all. Nothing. All
you've got to do is to take care of yourself, and not worry; and it will do you good to get
away. Women in your condition, especially if it's the first, often...."

"My condition!" exclaimed Sally. It was like a blow. "Doctor!"

"Nothing to be alarmed at," he repeated. "You'll be very happy after a bit. You know, you're
going to have a baby." He stood away from her, smiling in a friendly way.

"A baby!" Sally was shaken from head to foot. She stared at the doctor in an extremity of horror.
"A baby!"

He patted her arm. Before she was able to collect herself he had gone--a busy doctor with a
long round and a large practice. Sally sat looking at the fire. Then she rose. A scream came
to her lips. Again and again she shuddered. A baby! A baby! Toby's baby!

xvi

The news confirmed what Sally had never consciously thought, but what she now felt she had
known for days. If anything had been needed to complete her despair it was this. She felt suicidal.
She could have borne illness, even failure in the business, even all the complications of distress
which she had been already experiencing; but the knowledge of ultimate disgrace so inevitable
drove her mad. Vainly Sally's mind flew in every direction for relief--the doctor might be
wrong; the coming of babies could be prevented; perhaps Gaga might never know--she could persuade
him to go away, could go away herself, could do a hundred things to tide over the difficulty.
And at the end of all these twistings of the mind she would find herself still terribly in
danger, and would fight against hideous screaming fits by lying on the floor or on a couch
and crushing her handkerchief into her mouth. She was quite overcome by her new disaster, the
fruit of wild temptation, and the consequence of her whole course of action. Used as Sally
was to meeting every emergency with cool shrewdness, she could not bring to her present situation
the necessary philosophy, because she was ill, and fear-stricken, and made crazy by the impossibility
of finding a solution to her anxieties.

Hour after hour was spent with horrible nightmarish imaginings, in frenzied self-excuses and
improvised expedients. And never did there come one moment of peace in the midst of all this
panic. Sally had no friend. More and more she began to realise this. She had no friend. She
had made use of people, they were fond of her, would submit to her; but she had no friend.
More than anything in the world she now needed a friend. There was nobody in whom she could
confide, from whose love and sympathy she could draw the strength which at this point she so
greatly needed. She had a husband, a lover, a mother--to none of these could she go with the
truth. It needed all Sally's egotism to make the truth seem capable of justification, or indeed
to make it seem even credible, so different is the standard by which we judge our own actions
from that which we apply to others. Sally saw everything so much in relation to all that she
had ever thought and felt that she could not understand how her impulses might horrify one
coming to them only after translation into action. She only knew that she could not betray
herself unreservedly to anybody with the hope of being found innocent. The knowledge made her
at first full of terror; and the terror and the successive elaborate self-explanation, given
to an unresponsive silence which she could easily suppose to be hostile, made her obstinate;
then she became the more passionately afraid. She could have stormed, lied, wriggled; but she
could never hope to escape the consequences that she dreaded.

At times Sally could not bear to be with Gaga at all. She told him she was ill, and that the
doctor said she must go out; and in spite of his protests she would run from the house and
walk rapidly for an hour about Kensington, and even into Hyde Park and Kensington Gardens.
The weather made no difference to her. She was desperate, and must seek some relief from the
horror of being cooped up in that house with her secret. She had begged the doctor to give
no hint of it to Gaga, and had tried to pretend to herself that he had been mistaken in his
diagnosis; but her pretence was of no avail, because each day she became more certain that
he had been right. And still she could not think of any way out. She had been betrayed by a
single act of irresistible passion.

Presently, as her frenzy spent itself, Sally began to think more collectedly. She remembered
Toby's last letter. She began to think of him. She thought even that she could run away and
be divorced and abandon all her schemes for the sake of the baby. But as soon as Sally had
such an imagining she knew that it was an impossibility for her. Only as a last resource could
she accept her disaster. All her self-confidence fought against it. She must find some other
way. At first she thought it would be simple to do so; but as her brain worked upon the problem
she found so many difficulties in the way that she again lost hope. The baby would ruin everything.
Finally the return of Toby seemed to her to be the first necessity. She must see him. She could
do nothing until she saw him. Longing seized her--a quick sense that at least he was her lover,
and therefore her partner. She wrote to Toby, asking him to come and meet her as soon as he
reached London. Then she waited, her exhausted torments having left her in a mood of glittering-eyed
sullen misery that might at any moment rise sharply to angry shrillness. Calm hid genuine fear,
and it was the calm of one who has no hope other than self-control.

Gradually Sally came to know the big house in exact detail, because in these days she was forced
to find occupation for herself. The drawing-room, the dining-room, all the rooms upstairs,
were ransacked. They held no treasures, indeed; but they gave Sally a rather distracting interest
because they aroused her sense of possession. She had wanted to own things--and these, although
they were not what she had pictured, were property. There was the beginning of bourgeoise acquisitiveness
and pride of ownership in her, after all. Scratch the worker and you found the bourgeoise.
There were carefully-hoarded lengths of rich material in the cupboards, lace and ribbons and
shawls in different chests of drawers; upon Madam's dressing-table was a manicure set and a
set of tortoiseshell-backed brushes; in the drawers of the same table were perfumes in great
variety. Far below stairs, Sally found the wine cellar, and although it was small in size it
contained more kinds of wine than she had been able to imagine hitherto, and filled her with
an almost grinning satisfaction. Not yet was her sense of social ambition roused; but it was
born. She began to look ahead. Parties, with the wine as a feature of them, were imagined.
She began, in a manner, to picture what she would lose by defeat. The baby would ruin all.
And she was helpless, because she could speak to nobody. She was condemned. There would be
ruin, dreadful ruin, and she was glimpsing the very things which she might have enjoyed. Fresh
paroxysms shook Sally. Somehow--somehow, and by some means not as yet to be discovered, she
must save the situation. And Toby must save her. Toby must find a way. He must do it because
he loved her. It was his duty. He must find a way to save her. And even as she frantically
said this, Sally knew that she herself must control the situation. Thus early in her life she
had learnt that for a girl of her type men, whatever her desire for any other state, must always
be employed under her direction. Toby would obey. He might do the donkey-work; but in fact
Sally must lead. It was her fate, the fate of the girl with her own star to follow.

Nevertheless, it was upon Toby that the immediate future depended. Not yet has woman the power
to attain her ends except by and through men. Sally waited in ever-increasing excitement for
some word from Toby, some hint of his coming. She was kept within the house at all times except
during her short flights in the morning or afternoon. She could not be long away from the house.
And she must rely upon a letter, and then perhaps a brief meeting, for her purposes. The time
was going. Gaga was getting better, was growing more and more like the man in whose company
she had gone to Penterby. His demand upon her presence was increasing in power, because he
was sitting up, leaving his room, coming in search of her. Sally felt that already he was beginning
to exercise an inquisition. A tremor shook her nerves. Sometimes it seemed to her that Gaga's
glance held a strangeness, almost a faint suspicion. When she thought that she was conscious
of a feeling akin to aversion.

Aversion had not yet arrived. Gaga was still to be despised. But Sally already felt that she
might presently find her task of deception very hard under the constant scrutiny of such futile
devotedness as he displayed. And Toby did not write. She had no means of knowing where he was,
whether the voyage upon which he was engaged would be long or short, how much more time must
elapse before their meeting. The suspense was killing her. More than once, hearing Gaga calling
to her, Sally had hidden from him, and, at discovery, had been unable to conceal the hard coldness
of her feeling for him. If Toby would only come! If he would only come! She thought that her
nerve must before long give way, and once it had gone she would be prematurely ruined. She
felt trapped. She even, desperately, would slip on a coat at nights and walk up and down outside
the house, in case Toby should be lurking near on the chance of seeing her. She thought he
might come thus. And on each occasion when she went out of the house in this way she returned
to find Gaga standing in the dining-room, with the door open in such a way that he could command
a view of the inside of the front door. The knowledge that he was waiting for her, and watching
her, filled Sally with cold fury. His innocent delight at her return had the air of being a
pretence. She could not suppose his eager caresses to be other than penitence for suspicion
or an assertion of his claims upon her in perpetuity. The distress made her unresponsive, even
repressive. Her foot tapped upon the floor even while she could not wholly quell his convulsive
nervous embrace. And Toby did not come.

At last, one evening, her guess was justified. She had taken her coat, and had walked to the
end of the road; and just as she turned back, without hope, she saw a burly figure almost opposite.
It was Toby, in a sailor's short thick jacket, and his neck muffled, and a cap over his eyes.
He was standing in the shadow, and as she crossed to him allowed Sally to enter that same embracing
darkness which safely hid them both. She gave a little savage cry, and was in his strong arms,
almost crazed with relief and her physical sense of his so long withheld nearness. She could
feel herself shuddering and trembling, but she was not directly conscious of this. All she
felt was a passionate joy at being able to abandon all her nervous self-control to this firmness
and clenched vigour.

"Oh, Toby, Toby!" she whimpered, clutching him; and then no more for several minutes. Toby
did not speak. He hugged Sally until she was breathless, and his hot kiss made her cheek burn.
She pressed her forehead with all her strength against his breast, and longed that in this
moment she might for ever lose all knowledge of the trials which beset her. The trembling persisted
for a long time; and then, as she was comforted, it began to subside.

"My girl, my girl!" muttered Toby, in a thick voice, warm against her ear.

"Toby, listen.... Toby, I'm going to have a baby--it's your baby. What shall I do? Toby!" Sally
clung to him. "I'm so frightened, Toby."

"Baby? Christ!" As suddenly, he repulsed her. "You say it's me. It's a lie! How d'you know?
You little liar, you. What's your game?"

"Of course it's yours," fiercely cried Sally. "I told you."

"D'you think I believe that!" He was brutally incredulous. He held her away. "Why, you dirty
little liar, you'd swear anything."

A ghastly anger took command of Sally.

"I told you," she steadily repeated. But she made no attempt to go back to him. They stood
quite apart in the difficult gloom.

"I know you did. You told me you loved me. You married him."

"I told you," she obstinately went on. "I told you. I don't know what to do. He'll find out.
He's bound to find out."

"He'll think it's his," said Toby. "By God, I believe it is."

"You're mad!" cried Sally. "He knows it can't be. And you know it, too. I tell you I shall
be found out and disgraced." She was not crying. Her pride was aroused. She was full of scorn
for one who could disbelieve what she herself knew to be true.

"Well?" Toby demanded. "What of it? Whose fault is it?" He was brutally angry, and a little
frightened and blustering. They were still at arm's length in the darkness of the deserted
street. There was no lamp near them, and the houses behind were unlighted. Sally's heart fell.
She was almost paralysed at Toby's tone. She was puzzled and chagrined and angry. And then
a change of mood came abruptly upon her.

"Don't you love me?" she mournfully asked. "I thought you did. I love you, Toby. I thought
you loved me.

"I used to," came the grim reply out of the night. He sounded cautious, doubtful.

"Not any longer?" She withdrew herself wholly from him. They were completely sundered. Toby
was failing her. She was stone cold to him--cold to all the world.

"Who says I don't?" asked Toby, in a grumbling way. He put out his arm, but Sally stepped back.
"Here."

"No," she cried, sharply. Toby was not to take her for granted, not to hold her and make love
to her. She was in earnest, and he was giving himself away as one who had taken what he could get.

"I do." At last Toby's sullen assent reached Sally.

"You think I'm a liar," she persisted. "You don't love me." It was bitter.

There was a silence. Toby was almost invisible. Both were lost in the dull estrangement of
that troubled mood.

"Yes, I do," he muttered. "You are a liar."

"I'm not. It's true what I say. If Gaga finds out...."

"Well? What d'you suppose I can do? I can't do anything. It's you who's got to do something."

Sally thought for a moment at that savagely bullying tone, which was without love or understanding.
She had a sudden sweep of hatred of Toby as an animal that took no heed of responsibility or
consequences. The chill she had felt already deepened and filled her heart. Her loneliness
was intensified. She gave a short laugh of bitter distraction. A greater fierceness shook her,
and she began to walk slowly away from him.

"Oh, well then, I'm done," she said, with cold recklessness. "All right."

"Sally!" He came slowly after her; but his pursuit was not the old vigorous insistence for
which she longed. He wanted Sally--not a baby, not a difficulty. He would shirk anything but
the fulfilment of his passion. Instantly, she felt that he never would have married her if
the time had come.

"No!" It was a harsh cry. "Don't touch me. Go on, push off.... I'm done with you." She walked
more rapidly. She was only a little way now from the house, a hatless, disconsolate figure,
oppressed and rigid.

"Sally." But he was still slow to follow. Sally cracked her fingers. She was finished with
him. Her heart and her feet alike were leaden. She was too far gone for tears or sobs. It was
not anguish that she felt; but bitterness so great that she could only hate Toby. She had loved
him so much! And this was the end of him. She felt her love killed at a blow, and she was without
resource.

Suddenly strong fingers were upon Sally's shoulder. In other days she would have been dominated.
Not so now. She wrenched herself free, and walked on. There was no attempt to run. She was
finished ... finished. Some further sound she heard; but it was unintelligible. Toby, presented
with a real problem which a man who loved her would have solved, had been proved a doubting
coward. She felt wronged, deceived. She had always expected violence from him, but she had
always expected him to know that she truly loved him, whatever her actions might seem otherwise
to suggest. Realisation of his ignorance destroyed her. Even at the gate Sally might still
have been won; but as she came abreast of it she saw that the front door was open, and Gaga
standing upon the top step. Coldly, she shut the gate; and walked resolutely up the steps.
Toby was left dodging out of the circle of light, a pitiful conspirator. Gaga was silhouetted,
a long lean figure, against the light of the hall. He peered down into the darkness.

"Sally, is that you?" he exclaimed. "I was quite anxious."

"Were you?" It was listless, scornful.

As she passed him, Gaga gazed still into the darkness.

"Is that somebody with you?" he asked. "It looks...."

Sally went into the house, and as he followed her she closed the front door quietly. It was
strange to come from the black chilliness of the street into this new solid warmth and comfort.
In the hall they faced one another. For once Sally was as grey as he--as grey and trembling.

"I thought.... I thought it was a man," said Gaga.

"Oh, did you?" Sally slipped off her coat, and threw it upon a chair. She was listening intently.

"Wasn't it?" Gaga did not touch her. He looked down with a startled expression. "It looked
like a man out there.... Wasn't it?"

"You'd better go out and see," advised Sally, with snapping teeth. "Then you'll be sure." As
a fury possessed her, she turned upon him like a cat at bay, all her teeth showing. "Funny
if you were spying on me without any reason, wouldn't it be!"

She was so reckless that she did not measure consequences. She was in no mood to be cautious
or considerate. Leaving him there Sally went into the dining-room, and when Gaga entered upon
her heels she went out of the room again and slowly up the stairs.

xvii

But all the time, although she seemed to ignore him, Sally with a part of her consciousness
was listening and watching. She dreaded to hear the groan of the gate upon its rusted hinges,
the noise of a knock, or the gentle sound which the front door would make if Gaga accepted
her challenge. Her heart was almost silent as she waited, and then, as the minutes passed without
interruption, her relaxation was half relief and half disappointment. Something within her
had craved this crisis which had not arrived. Some sensual longing for violence was frustrate.
Sally was alone with Gaga, and Gaga, humble and obedient, was in her track, coming slowly and
affectionately after her. As she saw from the landing the top of his dark, grey-streaked head
she almost screamed with fury. It was in that moment that aversion for him rose in a tumult
from her heart. She hated Toby, but for his base cruelty alone. She hated Gaga for his inescapable
possessiveness and gentle persecution. It was a horror to Sally in her abnormal condition.
She began to run up the next flight of stairs, and tripped upon her skirt. The stumble brought
some little sense to her. She rose, holding the balustrade. Shot through and through with bitterness
as she was, she yet clutched at sanity. When Gaga came abreast of her Sally took his arm; and
they completed the journey together.

"Sorry I was beastly," she said, with a little pinch of the arm. "Got the jumps."

"I know.... I know," whispered Gaga. "We'll go away. We'll go very ... very soon."

"Now?" Sally demanded. "To-morrow? Could we go to-morrow?"

"Well ... well, perhaps not ... to-morrow. The day after?" He was hesitant, and did not oppose
her. Sally's lip curled. What a man! Yes ... yes ... yes; but the baby! She was again desperately
shaken.

"Why not to-morrow?" she cried, almost spitefully. "Why hang about?"

Gaga wavered. He began to kiss her. His hands, holding hers, were clammy. She had a glimpse
of the black space under his eyes, and the swollen yellowness of the whites of his eyes, and
his grey cheeks, so lined and creased, and the dreadful salmon colour of his dry lips. In his
arms though she was, Sally shuddered violently, aversion recurring with such strength that
she could not control her repugnance. This was her husband--her husband. Her eyes were strained
away from him.

"You're cold," Gaga murmured. "Poor little girl.... You're ... you're cold."

"Yes, I'm cold," agreed Sally, with a violent effort for grim self-repression. "That's what's
the matter with me. I stayed out too long. I oughtn't to have gone out this evening." She again
laughed slightly, her laugh so sneering that even Gaga looked up as though he had been startled.

"We'll go to bed early," he said. "It's cold to-night. Let's have something hot, and go to
bed. We can't have ... have you falling ill. It's nursing me that's made you ... queer."

"Yes, it's all my nursing." Sally spoke in a dry voice, and when he released her she went over
to the fire without heeding Gaga, and looked down at its brightness. Still her ears were alert
to catch some violence below; and as there was none her heart sank once more. Toby was gone.
She had dismissed him and he had gone. She was more forlornly alone than ever. If Gaga had
not been with her she must have sought relief in some physical effort, some vehement thumping
of the mantelpiece and a burst into wild crying. The repression which Sally was forced to exercise
tortured her. The agony she suffered was almost unbearable. Her mouth was stretched in a horrible
grimace, so poignant was her feeling.

"I.... I'd like something hot," Gaga proceeded, in innocence. "Some ... some cocoa ... or...."

"I'll get you some." It was with passionate exasperation that Sally spoke; but she was thankful
to know that she might leave him for a few minutes. The room seemed to stifle her. She plunged
to the door, walking past Gaga with her head averted, so that he might not see her face. The
stairs were cold, and she was upon the ground floor in an instant. A servant, called from below,
came slowly to receive instructions; but there was no cocoa in the house. Nothing? No coffee?
Nothing of the kind was available. Still thankful for the opportunity of turning her mind to
details, Sally hurried upstairs again. Gaga was already half-undressed, and stood in front
of the fire folding his coat. His thinness was grotesque in the bright light of the gas.

"Oh dear!" he cried. "I wanted it."

"All the shops'll be shut now," declared Sally.

Gaga thought for a moment, his face drawn. He was forced to sit down upon the edge of the bed.

"I.... I used ... used to have cocoa in my ... my study," he said.

"I'll look." Sally went down to the half-landing and into the small room which Gaga had always
used for evening work before his marriage. It was quite tiny, and there was a gas fire there,
and an armchair, and above the fireplace were some small shelves with a few books upon them.
Upon other shelves were many tins and packets and bottles, most of them containing preparations
handled by the firm in which Gaga had an interest. Strange: she had not had to trouble at all
about that! The room was very cold, and Sally shivered as she stood examining the contents
of the shelves. The tins and packets were all in confusion, large and small jostling one another;
and many had their descriptive labels turned to the wall. Sally read upon some of them words
the meaning of which she could not understand. Nearly all of them were chemicals relating to
the enrichment of soil or to the general improvement of farm produce. Some were quite tiny,
with little crystals in them. Others were large, and still within wrappings. She hurriedly
read the lettering, darted away to the cupboard, back again to the shelves, and once more to
the cupboard. Here there was a litter of papers also, for Gaga was temperamentally fussy and
untidy, and everything he owned was in disorder. She put her hand upon a cocoa-tin. It contained
white pellets which looked like rice. There was another tin, and this was half-full of cocoa.
She gave a cry of satisfaction. And then, as she replaced the lid of this tin she saw another;
straight before her eyes; and something made her stop as if she had been paralysed. Fascinated,
she read: "POISON: This preparation of Sheep Dip contains Arsenic." There followed some particulars,
of which she caught only the word "grains." Poison! Sally cautiously took the tin in her hand,
reading again more carefully the words printed upon the label. Funny thing to have in the house,
she thought.... Poison. She replaced the tin upon the cupboard shelf, and carried the cocoa
to Gaga.

"That cocoa?" she demanded. "It's all mixed up with poison and stuff. Don't want to kill you."

Gaga, by this time in bed, looked at the cocoa, and proclaimed its reality.

"Yes ... that's ... co ... cocoa," he stammered.

There was a pause of some minutes while the cocoa was mixed; and they both drank it slowly,
Sally conscious, as its warmth stole through her body, that she was less extremely unhappy
than she had been. She felt a little better. She even kissed Gaga in wishing him goodnight,
and received his eager kisses in return without flinching. At last she too went to her bed
in the adjoining room, and undressed and lay down in the darkness. From where she lay Sally
could hear Gaga moving, and could see the glimmer of the light in his room which would burn
until the morning. And as she lay there all her tragic thoughts came flooding back with the
intensity of a nightmare. The horrors, for a short time repelled, were stronger than ever.
She was tensely awake. Every word exchanged between Toby and herself came ringing into her
head. She was aghast at the stupidity, the cruel and brutal stupidity, of her lover. He her
lover! Love! why he didn't know what love meant! He would take everything she had to give;
and when he was asked to stand by her Toby would repudiate her claim upon him. She was filled
with vicious hatred at his betrayal. That was what men were! That was what they did! Shirkers!
They were all like that, except when they were ridiculous half-men like Gaga. What was she
to do? What could she do? Her brain became very clear and active. It was working with painful
alertness, so rapidly that she often did not reach the end of one channel before she was embarked
upon another. Toby was hopeless. She must act by herself. And what could she do?

Supposing she could do nothing? Disgrace, failure.... She was frightened. Better anything than
disclosure so ignominious. She thought of Gaga: very well, there was still time. He would be
better soon, and once he was better she could easily persuade him that he was the father of
her baby. That was the simplest plan, and one which had been so much taken for granted that
she had not taken it sufficiently into account as the only safe course. Gaga could be deceived
because he had no suspicion of all that went on in her mind, or of anything that had happened
in her life. He would soon be better, and when once they were united he would be wholly in
Sally's hands. Not yet, though. He must get well. A quick rush of relief came to her as a reassurance.
She could have laughed at her own panic. Of course Gaga was the solution. He could be made
to believe almost anything. But supposing ... supposing that he would always be ill? Then indeed
she would be better dead. Dead? But how could she die? She might long for death; but death
was not an oblivion that could be called up at will. Sally pondered upon the possibilities.

The word "POISON" returned to her memory. Quickly there followed the word "arsenic." Arsenic:
what did she recall? Suddenly Sally remembered that evening long ago when she had found her
mother reading an account of the Seddon trial. What had Seddon done? All the details came crowding
to her attention. He had given poison in food ... in food. And Miss ... what was her name?
Same as old Perce's-- Barrow. Seddon had given Miss Barrow arsenic. It had made her sick. Sally
shuddered. She did not want to be sick. She had had enough of sickness in these past few weeks.
To her sickness was the abomination of disease.

A terrible shock ran through Sally's body. She lay panting, her heart seeming to throb from
her temples to her feet. Miss Barrow had been constantly sick through taking arsenic, and they
had only found it out.... Gaga.... Sally's face grew violently hot. She could not breathe.
She sat feverishly up in bed, staring wildly. An idea had occurred to her so monstrous that
she was stricken with a sense of guilt and self-horror such as she had never known.

xviii

All that night Sally dwelt with her terrible temptation. The more she shrank from it the more
stealthily it returned to her, like the slow fingers of an incoming tide. So many circumstances
gave colour to her belief that the poison could be given without discovery that Sally found
every detail too easy to conceive. Gaga would be sick again and again, would weaken, would....
Always her imagination refused to complete the story. She covered her face with her hands and
sought frantically to hide from this loathsome whisper that pressed temptation upon her. Ill
and frightened, she lay turning into every posture of defiance and weakness and irresolution,
until the daylight was fully come; and then Gaga's voice called feebly from the next room,
and she must rise to tend him with something of the guilt of a murderess oppressing her and
causing her during the whole talk to keep her face turned away.

But she found in the interview strength enough for the moment to baffle temptation. To know
that Gaga lay helpless there before her--hardly moulded into recognisable form by the clinging
bedclothes--was a reinforcement to Sally's good will. His position appealed to the pity she
felt--the pity and the contempt. He was so thin and weak, so exceedingly fragile, that Sally
could not deliberately have hurt him. Instead, she was bent upon his salvation.

"Bertram," she said. "We must get away to-day. This morning. D'you see? We must."

"O-o-oh!" groaned Gaga, in unformulated opposition.

"We must. We'll go to Penterby this morning."

"But my dear!" it was a long wailing cry, like that of an old woman.

"We've got to go. Got to go. I'll get everything ready. You shan't have to worry about anything
at all."

"Sal-ly!" Again Gaga wailed. He tried to pull her down to him, gently and coaxingly. In a sort
of hysteria, Sally jerked herself free, looking steadily away. Her mouth was open, and brooding
resolve was in her eyes. She was not tragic; she was in confusion, set only upon a single purpose,
and otherwise passively in distress. Obstinately she repulsed him.

"It's no good talking. We must go. I'm ill, as well as you. The doctor says we must both go
away. At once." She was so resolute that Gaga could not resist her. He lay quite still, and
for that reason she was forced to look down at him. To Sally's surprise there was upon Gaga's
face an expression of such sweetness that she was almost touched. He loved her. "There!" she
murmured, as if to a baby; and bent and kissed him. Gaga kissed her several times in return
and continued to watch her, still with that strange expression of kindness that was almost
worship. He stirred at last.

"I'll get up," he said. "I'll get up now. It's a ... it's a fine idea. We'll catch the morning
train, if we hurry. We'll be ... be there in time for lunch."

Sally was in such a whirl of thankfulness that she flew to her dressing and packing. She and
Gaga were both downstairs and at breakfast within half-an-hour, seated at the big dining-table,
and looking very small in that great room. As they sat, Gaga was so happy that he repented
of his promise to go away, and wanted to remain at ease in such pleasant circumstances. He
began to think of reasons why they should not go away at all. He spoke with regret of the new
flat, of their preparations ... even of the business. But already Sally was upon her feet.
A few minutes later she was telephoning to Miss Summers explaining the sudden change of situation;
and then immediately began to pack. It was not a difficult task. She herself had few things
to take away. Presently Gaga joined idly in the work; and the two of them neatly folded his
clothes and slipped into his dressing-case the articles he was bound to need while they were away.

"My medicine!" exclaimed Gaga, clutching at an excuse.

"Got enough for to-day; and I've got the prescription." Sally was grim. She was more--she was
driven by instinct. It was essential that they should go immediately. For one thing Toby might
return, and any thought of Toby was so horrible to her at this moment, when her first hatred
was giving way to uncontrollable longing for him, that it was like a scourge. And for another
thing Sally was in terror of the nightmare temptation. She was fighting against that with all
the strength that remained. Even now, if she looked at Gaga, she shuddered deeply.

"What's the time?" called Gaga.

"Miriam ... telephone for a cab!" Sally was simultaneously giving instructions to a servant.
She went to a desk in which she kept money, and found that she had very little remaining. "Bert,
got any money? Well, your cheque book?"

"In the study."

It was a fatal word, so carelessly spoken, but like a blow in its sharp revival of something
that was being suppressed. Sally hurried to the door of her bedroom. As suddenly, she stopped
dead. The study! In a wave all her memory of the previous night's wicked temptation came back
to her. It was only with a great effort that she went further. More than a moment passed in
a silent struggle. Almost blindly, she entered the study, and its chill atmosphere was tomb-like
in its effect upon her. Again Sally shuddered. Groping, she found Gaga's cheque book, and turned
again to the door. The walls of the tiny room seemed to rise forbiddingly around her, to come
closer, to begin to topple over as if in ruin. Sally gasped for breath. She cowered. Everything
became dark.... A long time passed before she was again conscious. Clasping the cheque book,
Sally felt her way unsteadily, with her eyes closed, until she stood upon the threshold. She
was breathing slowly and deeply, and she could see nothing. And at last, fighting still, but
incapable of conquering the stronger influence which was being exercised upon her will, she
went back into the room, and stood there with her face towards the cupboard. Quietly, as if
on tiptoe, she passed in a dream to the cupboard and unfastened it, and without ever once looking
about among the other contents of the shelf put her hand upon the fatal tin which she had found
while looking for Gaga's cocoa. With this tin in her hand she hastened back to her room, closing
the door as silently as she had opened it. The tin was quickly laid among her clothes, right
in the corner of her dressing-case, hidden from any prying eye. Then Sally straightened herself,
listened and bent down again to fasten the bag. Within ten minutes she and Gaga were out of
the house, sitting in a taxi on their way to Victoria Station. Sally pressed herself back in
the corner of the cab, not touching Gaga, so that nobody should see her; and at the station
she was on fire until they were settled in the railway carriage and the train was slipping
gently out from the platform. Then at last she sighed deeply, as if with relief, and the corners
of her mouth drooped until she looked like a little girl who was going to cry. The houses became
blurred.

xix

Gaga and Sally reached Penterby in a very different mood and a very different state of health
from that which had marked their arrival on the previous visit. The station, with its confusing
platforms and connecting bridges, was by now familiar to Sally, and she was able to turn at
once to a porter and give him instructions. Whereas before they had walked the short distance
between the station and the hotel they were now forced to take an open, horse-drawn, cab. It
stood waiting when they reached the small station yard, the horse still nibbling feebly at
dropped oats upon the paving and with its breath blowing them farther away. The few little
cottages near the station were passed in an instant, and the old-fashioned main street of Penterby,
reached after a short run between a hedge upon one side and a tall wooden paling upon the other,
was about them. Above, the sky was brilliantly blue. In front the houses rose towards the hill-top
as of old. There was peace here, if Sally could find it. And she could see the bridge, and
the ivy-covered hotel, and the gold-lettered board. She sat as if crushed in her seat in the
cab, staring out at the hotel with an expression of strain and eagerness. Beside her Gaga,
tired by the journey, yawned behind his long hand, his hat tilted over his eyes, and his mouth
always a little open. It was a strange return, and Sally had ado to preserve any lightness
of step and tone as she jumped down from the cab and went into the hotel. As before, she noticed
the silence and emptiness of the small bar, and the room beyond; and as she tapped loudly Mrs.
Tennant came from another room. This time it was Sally who took charge of everything. Gaga
drooped in the background, a feeble figure. But he gathered strength to smile at Mrs. Tennant
and to greet her.

"I'm not well, Mrs. Tennant," he said. "I've come to get ... get ... get well. My wife's ill,
too. You ... you must be very kind to us."

"My!" exclaimed Mrs. Tennant, in a fat voice of concern. Her swollen lips were parted in dismay.
"But you both look so bad! Of course: you can have the same room you had before. Come up!"

She led the way. Sally again caught a glimpse of the drawing-room carpet in its brilliant mixture
of reds and blues and yellows, and was immediately afterwards drawn into the old dark bedroom
opening upon the glass-covered balcony. She stood in dismay, suddenly regretful that they had
come to be stifled there.

"Can we have some lunch?" she asked. "My husband's...."

"Of course." Mrs. Tennant's geniality was benignant. But in her eyes there remained that unappeasable
caution which Sally had previously noticed. "At once."

Sally slipped out of the room with her. They stood in the narrow drab passage--two black-clothed
figures notably contrasted in age and development. Mrs. Tennant was so stout, and Sally so
slim, that the difference between them was emphasised by the similarity of clothing.

"My husband's mother's dead. He was awfully fond of her. He's been ill ever since, and the
doctor said he'd better come away."

"You're ill yourself, you know, Mrs. Merrick," exclaimed Mrs. Tennant.

"I've been nursing him a month--night and day. He's not strong. We'd barely got back when she
died. What with his illness, and the business--it's been terrible!"

Sally was watching Mrs. Tennant--she did not know why. She felt defensive. All was the result
of her own position and the dreadful knowledge which she had of her last night's temptation.
She looked like a young girl, but so pale and hollow-eyed that she would have aroused pity
in any woman of experience.

"But it's you. I know Mr. Merrick. I've often seen him queer. But you're so changed. When you
were here before...."

"I know. I'm ill."

"I said to my sister how strong and bright you were. We both thought you'd make a--well, a
new man of Mr. Merrick."

"It's only his mother's dying like that. He was worried about her, and then she died; and he
just went to pieces. He had to be put to bed at once. I'll put him to bed again as soon as
we've had something to eat. He's so weak. It's the change he wants, and the fresh air."

"And you too, my dear." Mrs. Tennant seemed really to be kind.

"When he's asleep I'll go for a walk. I'll soon be well." Sally was reassuring; but she was
made aware of her own weakness by having had attention drawn to the appearance of it.

They parted with smiles. Sally made as if to re-enter the bedroom; but, instead, she went through
the drawing-room and on to the balcony. The river was running swiftly up-stream, so that the
thick mud was hidden. Back along its course came little floating masses of collected material,
like miniature islands in progress up and down the river. Sally stood watching one of these
masses, until it grew indistinct as the result of her intentness. The sun was making the houses
beyond the river glitter anew, and the whole town was beautified in its light. A feeling of
great misery seized Sally. She stared down at the discoloured stream, and her eyes filled with
tears. She was again consumed with a sense of loneliness; and a faint horror of the returning
tide caused her to break once again from her contemplation, to walk back through the drawing-room,
and to rejoin Gaga. He was sitting upon the bed, regarding with a vacant expression the two
dressing-cases which had been brought up to the room and which stood together against the wall.
The room was cold and dark. Sally impulsively went to the French windows opening upon the balcony
and drew back the curtains.

"There now," she said. "You're going to get better. You can see the sun."

Gaga smiled gently. Sally came back to him and stood with her hand ruffling his thin hair.
She too smiled, but with abstraction. She was numbed by illness and horror and the journey
and her vision of the dirty merciless water.

xx

When they had eaten their lunch, Sally helped Gaga to undress and left him in bed with the
curtains again closed and the bedroom, thus darkened, smelling close and dank, as if it were
the haunt of blackbeetles. When the curtains were drawn the whole room faded to a uniformity
of grey-brown, and the pictures and ornaments became dim shadows, and the mirror upon the dressing-table
took upon itself a mysterious air, as though in its depths one might read something of the
hidden future. All was sunk in a sorrowful gloom, and the barely-outlined recumbent figure
of Gaga might have been that of a dead man. Upon tiptoe, Sally stole quietly from the room.
For a little while she sat alone over a fire which had been lighted in the drawing-room; but
the evening was beginning to cast darkness over everything; and in the west the last hot reflections
of the sun were cast upon two or three casual clouds. Sally therefore rose, and took her hat
and coat, which were lying near the piano. As it was the middle of the week, and in autumn,
the hotel was almost empty, and would not be occupied with any visitors for two or three more
days. It was a dull place once the sun had set. For a moment Sally hesitated in putting on
her hat; but at last she ventured forth, and was out in the greying street, and upon the bridge
across the river. The water, as she hurried by, ran silently below, blackened and threatening,
and as there would be no moon the night was coming with great darkness. Over the bridge Sally
noticed the early lights in the post office, and a few street lamps. One road ran a little
way up the hill and was immediately checked by houses. Another turned off to the north-west,
and it was here that she would find a shop at which she could leave the prescription for Gaga's
medicine. Once she had performed her task Sally walked briskly on until she came to the end
of the houses and into a road to the edges of which trees grew and grass came irregularly running.
Beneath the trees darkness already obliterated all shape, and the fringes of the wood were
so bare of leafage that she could already look up to the grey sky between the boughs and their
filmy branches. No vehicles passed. She was alone upon this broad road, with nothing upon either
hand but unexplored depths of shadow and silence. Every now and then a stationary light spotted
the dusk. She was appalled by her loneliness.

Quickly as she had walked away from Penterby, Sally returned to the town with even greater
speed, warmed by the exercise, but chilled by her thoughts and perplexities. When she was alone,
and so hemmed in by sinister darkness, Sally was brought quickly back to her forebodings. She
remembered the solitary figure which she had left, and thought of Gaga was shrinking. Of Toby
she could only find herself thinking with anger. Yet it was not wholly anger, for she was also
afraid and filled with longing. Her anger was even obliterated by her love, so much did she
adore Toby's strength. His cruelty, his brutal indifference, were spurs to her unreasoning
affection. Whatever Toby might do, Sally loved him. The love which she had believed herself
indignantly to have cast out was still paramount. Finally, in all her fleeting considerations
of the moment and the future, she could not ignore the baby which was coming. She had no thought
of it other than fear and loathing. Not yet had desire for a child created in her mind a new
longing. If she could have killed it she would have done so; and she was prevented from contemplating
this possibility only by the ignorance which inexperience and friendlessness imposed upon her.
Sally was awed and terrified by the gloom which gathered in her heart and about her. She sped
onwards until she reached the bridge, and here for several minutes she uncontrollably paused.
All was now black, and the tide had turned. Already the water was flowing to the sea, and she
could imagine the coagulated masses vaguely swirling beneath her, borne unresisting upon the
outgoing tide. The hotel was in darkness, excepting for the room beneath the balcony where
the walls descended straight to the water and the mud. Here there was a dim light. All above
was sombre until she reached in her steady upward glance the sky's faint background and saw
its unfathomable arch of grey.

The bar of the hotel was empty. Unperceived, Sally went upstairs and into the bedroom where
Gaga lay. She closed the door behind her and switched on the electric light. To her surprise
Gaga was lying on his side, and his face was turned towards her.

"You awake?" she whispered. At his soft sound of greeting she went forward and sat upon the
bed. "It's half-past-four," Sally continued. "Like some tea? Going to get up again?"

"I.... I'm so tired," murmured Gaga. He had taken her hand, and held it to his cheek, so that
Sally had to lean forward. In this mood he was so like a child that Sally's heart softened.
She found him pathetic, and her own strength was emphasised by his weakness.

"Better stay in bed," she said.

"But you? Aren't you ... aren't you lonely?"

"Mm. Nobody here. Nothing to do. I been for a walk and got frightened."

"I'll get up. Yes, I will. After tea we'll walk along that av ... avenue. In the moonlight.
Like your song."

"There's no moon up yet," Sally told him, not moving. "You stay where you are. Stay nice and
warm in bed. I shall be all right. I'll go for a walk along the avenue by myself."

"And be f ... frightened again."

"Shan't wait to be frightened," Sally said. "See me dart back!"

Gaga fondled her hand and reached for the other one, which she patiently yielded.

"You ... you're so nice," he murmured. "So good to me."

"I? Good?" Sally's shoulders were hoisted. She almost withdrew her hands.

"Yes. But Sally.... I...." He was overcome, and could not proceed. Tears had started to his
eyes. "I haven't been sleeping. I've been thinking. Last night...."

"Last night!" Sally convulsively jerked her hands away, and as quickly restored them.

"You thought I'd ... I'd ... been ... been spying."

"Of course you weren't. I was ill. I was a beast."

"Sally, I never did. You ... you have a lot.... I've been thinking ... a lot to put up with.
Marrying a ... a sick man; and you...."

Sally could not bear him to talk thus. She freed herself, and rose.

"Here's a lot of talk!" she protested. "You get well, old son. Then we'll see."

Gaga did not say anything for a moment. At last he spoke again.

"Sally, would you ... would you mind very much if I did ... didn't get well?" he asked.

"Course I should!" But Sally was filled with alarm at this conversation. She turned upon Gaga,
but she could not meet his soft eyes. "Here, you're talking silly!"

"Sally.... I.... I wasn't spying," said Gaga, slowly. "But I.... I did see a man at the gate
last night."

Sally clutched the back of a chair. For a moment she thought she must be going to faint. Then,
with a tremendous effort, she controlled herself.

"What d'you mean?" she demanded.

"Behind you. With you."

"Never!"

Gaga continued to regard her. His smile was no longer visible. She only noticed that he was
paler, that his nostrils were pinched and his eyes dark.

"I wish you'd tell me the truth," he said.

"I tell you there was nobody with me," lied Sally. "Nobody. There may have been a man behind
me. I did get a bit of a start. Somebody came out of a gate. I didn't notice."

"Sally.... I.... I heard him call you 'Sally.'"

She was stricken with terror at his quietness.

"Nobody called me Sally!" she cried. "I don't know anybody."

Gaga sighed, and his head fell sideways, so that he no longer looked at her. They spoke no
more. She believed that he knew she had been lying; but she had been caught unawares, and could
not retract her assertions. Without a further word she began to prepare a basin of water, and
washed herself. Then she went to ask that tea might be brought to the bedroom. They drank the
tea in silence, both very grave. When they had finished, Sally took the tray to the end of
the passage, where there was a projecting ledge, and then returned to the room.

"Shall I go and sing to you?" she asked.

"Not ... not now. Go for your wa ... walk. I shan't have any dinner. I'll just have a cup of
cocoa."

Cocoa! Sally was transfixed.

"Oh, not cocoa!" she cried. "Not cocoa!" It was a desperate appeal. It came from the depths
of her heart. She had been alarmed at his speech. She had been afraid of what he might do.
But more than all she was afraid of the horrible voice that had followed fear with its imaginings
of the means to her own salvation. At his further silence, she went quickly out of the room
and out of the hotel. She walked at a rapid pace along the avenue, where others also were walking,
as it was a favourite promenade; and she found herself shaking with emotion as the result of
the disclosure which Gaga had made. He knew. He knew. What did he know? And what would he do?
Sally laughed hysterically. Oh, let him do it soon! It was suspense that she could not bear.
It was the ghastly sense of muddle and falsehood that was oppressing her now. Death--punishment--these
were things of indifference. It was the fear of either that made her torture. To know the worst,
to face it, to suffer for all she had done that was wrong, would satisfy her. But to be kept
in this horrible suspense much longer would send her mad. Why had she not told Gaga the truth?
She began hysterically to condemn herself. She should have told him the truth. She should have
said that Toby was an old lover, jealous, angry, threatening. Now she could not tell any such
tale, because she had denied that a man had used her name. To confess would make him disbelieve
anything she ever said. Sally shrugged. He did not believe her now. He would never believe
her. Once he was well he would find out everything. He would suspect her. He would persecute
her with suspicions. He would suspect that she was going to have a baby. He would suspect ...
he would know....

Creeping, creeping into Sally's mind came temptation. She walked more swiftly until she reached
a part of the road which bordered the river. The water was less muddy here. The river looked
in this aspect like a big pool of liquid lead. It was less sinister. It carried to her heart
no sense of horror. She turned and began to walk back, meeting every now and then a couple
of pedestrians, or little knots of people, or solitary individuals like herself, who strolled
to and fro along the broad avenue. But it was very dark, and she could not well see the faces
of those who passed, except when they were in the neighbourhood of a light. She did not recognise
anybody; and when she came once more to the bridge she did not tarry, but walked straight across
it. Upon the face of the river were reflected the lights of the hotel, for the balcony was
now faintly illumined, and she could see that the curtains had been drawn at the corner windows,
although not elsewhere. Again unperceived, she made her way upstairs and into the drawing-room,
where she removed her coat and hat and seated herself at the piano.

xxi

But Sally did not stay at the piano. She was restless and apprehensive. She did not dare to
strike a note, in case Gaga should be asleep. And she could not go into the bedroom. She tried
to do so, but she so shrank from meeting Gaga after their talk that every impulse held her
faltering here. Instead, Sally went through the door which led from the drawing-room to the
balcony. Only one light was burning, at the farther end, and this cast such a tiny ray that
it threw up the shadows of no more than a single enamelled iron table and wicker chair. For
the rest, everything was in a monotonous grey twilight, bereft of all incidental colourings
and of all significance. The electric bulb was grimed with age and the action of the air, and
the light was quite yellow, as that from an oil lamp would have been. The matting with which
the floor of the balcony was covered was in shadow. Through the windows Sally could see only
a blackness in which the water and the opposite bank and the buildings farther away were all
obscured. She went towards the light, and sat here in an armchair, staring straight before
her, and thinking the one word ... poison ... poison ... poison.

She must have been sitting upon the balcony for several minutes in this state approaching stupor,
when she heard a faint sound. It was like the brushing of leaves against a passing body. Her
heart quickened, and she looked quickly towards the darker end of the balcony, near the door
leading to the drawing-room. She could see nothing at all, but her nerves did not relax their
tenseness. She could see nothing; but she felt that something--somebody was there, watching
her. Somebody--whom could it be? Sally knew how deserted the bar was, how easy it would be
for a man to slip up the stairs without being seen. She was defenceless. If she had been well,
she would have gone straight along the balcony, to discover the cause of her alarm; but she
was ill, and she shrank back in her chair, watching the pulsing dimness.

Sally knew that there were only two people who could wish her harm--Gaga and Toby. If Gaga
had gone out of his bedroom by the inner door he might have come round through the drawing-room,
and might be standing there in the darkness. He might have gone away again. He might have found
the poison. In a passion of fear, she rose. If it was Gaga, she would soon confront him. She
would satisfy herself of his presence in the bedroom. She took two steps, and then stopped,
her heart frantically beating. There was somebody there.

"Sally," came a sharp whisper. "Sally. Don't be afraid."

It was Toby, hidden still from sight, but waiting there at the dark end of the balcony.

xxii

Sally's eyes flew instantly to the window of the bedroom. All there was dark. She could not
tell if the blinds were drawn or not. She no longer dreaded Toby: she too violently desired
to see him, to be in his arms and saved from her nightmare thoughts by a moment's oblivion.

"Hush!" she whispered, and went silently along the balcony. "What d'you want?"

"I want you." Toby's voice came hissing into her ear, and she saw him at last. He was standing,
a burly figure, in the shadow of a screen, and remained quite still, hidden.

"What did you come for? How did you get here?"

"Went to your house. Frightened 'em." Toby laughed grimly. "Thought you'd got away, didn't
you? Well, here I am." His tone became suddenly ferocious. "See?"

"You can't ... we can't talk. My husband's there--in that room. He'll hear. He saw you last night."

"I got to see you," Toby whispered, obstinately. "See? I mean to say, I got to know what you're
going to do."

Sally gave a contemptuous laugh. So he had followed her for that!

"Well, I'm well rid of you," she answered. "I see what you are."

"Oh, you do, do you...." said Toby. He gripped her arm. "Not so much of that, Sal. D'you see?
I won't have it. You belong to me."

"I don't!" But Sally was only waiting for his fierce embrace, and longing for it. "I don't
like you. I don't want you. I've had enough. You let me down."

Toby started. His voice became thick with anger.

"My Christ! Who let anybody down? What did you do to me? Eh? You married this chap. You did
it for yourself. Let you down, do I? Oh, I'm a good mind to kill you, Sal."

Sally shivered. She knew he might do it. He could do it. It was his nature. But she answered
him defiantly, sneeringly.

"Yes, if you want to be hung for it."

Toby was holding her so that her arms were being bruised. He pulled her towards him, and kissed
her again and again. He was crushing her.

"See?" he said. "That's how you belong to me."

"Well, what about it?" panted Sally. "Let me go.... Just because you're strong."

"You're coming off with me. See? Now."

"I'm not." She was equally determined.

"Now. Can you get your hat?"

"I'm not," repeated Sally.

Toby swung her off her feet with one arm.

"See?" he announced again. "That's what."

"Go on, that's all you can do," answered Sally, savagely. "You clear off. I've had enough of
it." She dived suddenly, and escaped from him. She was a few steps away, and Toby was in pursuit.
As he followed, he kicked against one of the little iron tables, which he had not seen in the
half-light, and sent it crashing to the floor. Amid their silence it made a hideous noise.
Sally drew herself upright, terrified into rigidity. This was the finish--the finish. It was
all over now. She was beaten. She.... And as she stared she saw that the French window of the
bedroom was open--had been open, perhaps, all the time,--and that Gaga was standing there,
as if he had overheard all that they had said.

"Sally!" he cried in a sharp voice of alarm. "Oh, my God! Oh, my God!"

Gaga came leaping out upon the balcony as Toby stumbled on towards Sally. The two men were
sharply in conflict, and Gaga's arm was raised. She could see it even in the shadow--the raised
arm, and the impact of the two bodies. Gaga was in his sleeping-suit, spectral in his gauntness
and his pallor. Maddened, Toby swept his enemy aside with one violent blow that would have
killed the strongest man. Gaga went down, his head and body thrown with great force against
the brick wall of the hotel, and sliding to the ground with such momentum that there was a
further concussion.

"Toby!" shrieked Sally. "Toby! You've killed him!"

Gaga lay in the shadow, quite motionless, a horrible twisted body without life. And the two
others stood panting in the twilight, staring down at his ghastly upturned face. Toby was as
if paralysed by the sight, his hand sleepily raised to his brow.

A voice sounded from downstairs.

"Did you call, Mrs. Merrick?" And then ascending steps followed.

Sally made a frantic gesture.

"Get out!" she cried. "Quick. They're coming. They'll find you. He's dead. Get out!" She waved
to the windows.

With one glance round, and with fear at his heels, Toby ran to the side of the balcony, pulled
aside one of the windows, and climbed out into the darkness. Sally saw him no more. She was
only aware that something terrible happened, and that he missed his footing and plunged downwards
towards the running water and the sickening mud. Then, as she convulsively jerked the window
close again, she was overcome with deadly faintness, and herself fell upon the matting, striking
her head as she fell, and losing consciousness.