Autumn in Virginia, especially if one is not too near the mountains, is a season in which greenness
sails very close to Christmas, although generally veering away in time to prevent its verdant
hues from tingeing that happy day with the gloomy influence of the prophetic proverb about
churchyards. Long after the time when the people of the regions watered by the Hudson and the
Merrimac are beginning to button up their overcoats, and to think of weather strips for their
window-sashes, the dwellers in the land through which flow the Appomattox and the James may
sit upon their broad piazzas, and watch the growing glories of the forests, where the crimson
stars of the sweet gum blaze among the rich yellows of the chestnuts, the lingering green of
the oaks, and the enduring verdure of the pines. The insects still hum in the sunny air, and
the sun is now a genial orb whose warm rays cheer but not excoriate.

The orb just mentioned was approaching the horizon, when, in an adjoining county to that in
which was situated the hospitable mansion of Midbranch, a little negro boy about ten years
old was driving some cows through a gateway that opened on a public road. The cows, as they
were going homeward, filed willingly through the gateway, which led into a field, at the far
end of which might be dimly discerned a house behind a mass of foliage; but the boy, whose
head and voice were entirely too big for the rest of him, assailed them with all manner of
reproaches and impellent adjectives, addressing each cow in turn as: "You, sah!" When the compliant
beasts had hustled through, the youngster got upon the gate, and giving it a push with one
bare foot, he swung upon it as far as it would go; then lifting the end from the surface of
the ground he shut it with a bang, fastened it with a hook, and ran after the cows, his wild
provocatives to bovine haste ringing high into the evening air.

This youth was known as Plez, his whole name being Pleasant Valley, an inspiration to his mother
from the label on a grape box, which had drifted into that region from the North. He had just
stooped to pick up a clod of earth with which to accentuate his vociferations, when, on rising,
he was astounded by the apparition of an elderly woman wearing a purple sun-bonnet, and carrying
a furled umbrella of the same color. Behind the spectacles, which were fixed upon him, blazed
a pair of fiery eyes, and the soul of Plez shrivelled and curled up within him. His downcast
eyes were bent upon his upturned toes, the clod dropped from his limp fingers, and his mouth
which had been opened for a yell, remained open, but the yell had apparently swooned.

The words of the old lady were brief, but her umbrella was full of jerky menace, and when she
left him, and passed on toward the outer gate, Plez followed the cows to the house with the
meekness of a suspected sheep dog.

The cows had been milked, some by a rotund black woman named Letty, and some, much to their
discomfort, by Plez himself, and it was beginning to grow dark, when an open spring wagon driven
by a colored man, and with a white man on the back seat came along the road, and stopped at
the gate. The driver having passed the reins to the occupant on the back seat, got down, opened
the gate, and stood holding it while the other drove the horse into the road which ran by the
side of the field to the house behind the trees. At this time a passer-by, if there had been
one, might have observed, partly protruding from behind some bushes on the other side of the
public road, and at a little distance from the gate, the lower portion of a purple umbrella.
As the spring wagon approached, and during the time that it was turning into the gate, and
while it was waiting for the driver to resume his seat, this umbrella was considerably agitated,
so much so indeed as to cause a little rustling among the leaves. When the gate had been shut,
and the wagon had passed on toward the house, the end of the umbrella disappeared, and then,
on the other side of the bush, there came into view a sun-bonnet of the same color as the umbrella.
This surmounted the form of an old lady, who stepped into the pathway by the side of the road,
and walked away with a quick, active step which betokened both energy and purpose.

The house, before which, not many minutes later, this spring wagon stopped, was not a fine
old family mansion like that of Midbranch, but it was a comfortable dwelling, though an unpretending
one. The gentleman on the back seat, and the driver, who was an elderly negro, both turned
toward the hall door, which was open and lighted by a lamp within, as if they expected some
one to come out on the porch. But nobody came, and, after a moment's hesitation, the gentleman
got down, and taking a valise from the back of the wagon, mounted the steps of the porch. While
he was doing this the face of the negro man, which could be plainly seen in the light from
the hall door, grew anxious and troubled. When the gentleman set his valise on the porch, and
stood by it without making any attempt to enter, the old man put down the reins and quickly
descending from his seat, hurried up the steps.

"Dunno whar ole miss is, but I reckon she done gone to look after de tukkies. She dreffle keerful
dat dey all go to roos' ebery night. Walk right in, Mahs' Junius." And, taking up the valise,
he followed the gentleman into the hall.

There, near the back door, stood the rotund black woman, and, behind her, Plez. "Look h'yar
Letty," said the negro man, "whar ole miss?"

"Dunno," said the woman. "She done gib out supper, an' I ain't seed her sence. Is dis Mahs'
Junius? Reckon' you don' 'member Letty?"

"Yes I do," said the gentleman, shaking hands with her; "but the Letty I remember was a rather
slim young woman."

"Dat's so," said Letty, with a respectful laugh, 'but, shuh 'nuf, my food's been blessed to
me, Mahs' Junius."

"But whar's ole miss?" persisted the old man. "You, Letty, can't you go look her up?"

Now was heard the voice of Plez, who meekly emerged from the shade of Letty. "Ole miss done
gone out to de road gate," said he. "I seen her when I brung de cows."

"Bress my soul!" ejaculated Letty. "Out to de road gate! An' 'spectin' you too, Mahs' Junius!"

"Didn't she say nuffin to you?" said the old man, addressing Plez.

"She didn't say nuffin to me, Uncle Isham," answered the boy, "'cept if I didn't quit skeerin'
dem cows, an' makin' 'em run wid froin' rocks till dey ain't got a drip drap o' milk lef' in
'em, she'd whang me ober de head wid her umbril."

"'Tain't easy to tell whar she done gone from dat," said Letty.

The face of Uncle Isham grew more troubled. "Walk in de parlor, Mahs' Junius," he said, "an'
make yourse'f comf'ble. Ole miss boun' to be back d'reckly. I'll go put up de hoss."

As the old man went heavily down the porch steps he muttered to himself: "I was feared o' sumfin
like dis; I done feel it in my bones."

The gentleman took a seat in the parlor where Letty had preceded him with a lamp. "Reckon ole
miss didn't spec' you quite so soon, Mahs' Junius, cos de sorrel hoss is pow'ful slow, and
Uncle Isham is mighty keerful ob rocks in de road. Reckon she's done gone ober to see ole Aun'
Patsy, who's gwine to die in two or free days, to take her some red an' yaller pieces for a
crazy quilt. I know she's got some pieces fur her."

"Aunt Patsy alive yet?" exclaimed Master Junius. "But if she's about to die, what does she
want with a crazy quilt?"

"Dat's fur she shroud," said Letty. "She 'tends to go to glory all wrap up in a crazy quilt,
jus chockfull ob all de colors of the rainbow. Aun' Patsy neber did 'tend to have a shroud
o' bleached domestic like common folks. She wants to cut a shine 'mong de angels, an' her quilt's
most done, jus' one corner ob it lef'. Reckon ole miss done gone to carry her de pieces fur
dat corner. Dere ain't much time lef', fur Aun' Patsy is pretty nigh dead now. She's ober two
hunnerd years ole."

"What!" exclaimed Master Junius, "two hundred?"

"Yes, sah," answered Letty. "Doctor Peter's old Jim was more'n a hunnerd when he died, an'
we all knows Aun' Patsy is twice as ole as ole Jim."

"I'll wait here," said Master Junius, taking up a book. "I suppose she will be back before long."

In about half an hour Uncle Isham came into the kitchen, his appearance indicating that he
had had a hurried walk, and told Letty that she had better give Master Junius his supper without
waiting any longer for her mistress. "She ain't at Aun' Patsy's," said the old man, "and she's
jus' done gone somewhar else, and she'll come back when she's a mind to, an' dar ain't nuffin
else to say 'bout it."

Supper was eaten; a pipe was smoked on the porch; and Master Junius went to bed in a room which
had been carefully prepared for him under the supervision of the mistress; but the purple sun-bonnet,
and the umbrella of the same color did not return to the house that night.

Master Junius was a quiet man, and fond of walking; and the next day he devoted to long rambles,
sometimes on the roads, sometimes over the fields, and sometimes through the woods; but in
none of his walks, nor when he came back to dinner and supper, did he meet the elderly mistress
of the house to which he had come. That evening, as he sat on the top step of the porch with
his pipe, he summoned to him Uncle Isham, and thus addressed the old man:

"I think it is impossible, Isham, that your mistress started out to meet me, and that an accident
happened to her. I have walked all over this neighborhood, and I know that no accident could
have occurred without my seeing or hearing something of it."

Uncle Isham stood on the ground, his feet close to the bottom step; his hat was in his hand,
and his upturned face wore an expression of earnestness which seemed to set uncomfortably upon
it. "Mahs' Junius," said he, "dar ain't no acciden' come to ole miss; she's done gone cos she
wanted to, an' she ain't come back cos she didn't want to. Dat's ole miss, right fru."

"I suppose," said the young man, "that as she went away on foot she must be staying with some
of the neighbors. If we were to make inquiries, it certainly would not be difficult to find
out where she is."

"Mahs' Junius," said Uncle Isham, his black eyes shining brighter and brighter as he spoke,
"dar's culled people, an' white folks too in dis yer county who'd put on dere bes' clothes
an' black dere shoes, an' skip off wid alacrousness, to do de wus kin' o sin, dat dey knowed
for sartin would send 'em down to de deepes' and hottes' gullies ob de lower regions, but nuffin
in dis worl' could make one o' dem people go 'quirin' 'bout ole miss when she didn't want to
be 'quired about."

The smoker put down his pipe on the top step beside him, and sat for a few moments in thought.
Then he spoke. "Isham," he began, "I want you to tell me if you have any notion or idea----"

"Mahs' Junius," exclaimed the old negro, "scuse me fur int'ruptin', but I can't help it. Don'
you go, an ax an ole man like me if I tinks dat ole miss went away cos you was comin' an' if
it's my true b'lief dat she'll neber come back while you is h'yar. Don' ask me nuffin like
dat, Mahs' Junius. Ise libed in dis place all my bawn days, an' I ain't neber done nuffin to
you, Mahs' Junius, 'cept keepin' you from breakin' you neck when you was too little to know
better. I neber 'jected to you marryin' any lady you like bes', an' 'tain't f'ar Mahs' Junius,
now Ise ole an' gittin' on de careen, fur you to ax me wot I tinks about ole miss gwine away
an' comin' back. I begs you, Mahs' Junius, don' ax me dat."

Master Junius rose to his feet. "All right, Isham," he said; "I shall not worry your good old
heart with questions." And he went into the house.

The next day this quiet gentleman and good walker went to see old Aunt Patsy, who had apparently
consented to live a day or two longer; gave her a little money in lieu of pieces for her crazy
bed-quilt; and told her he was going away to stay. He told Uncle Isham he was going away to
stay away; and he said the same thing to Letty, and to Plez, and to two colored women of the
neighborhood whom he happened to see. Then he took his valise, which was not a very large one,
and departed. He refused to be conveyed to the distant station in the spring wagon, saying
that he much preferred to walk. Uncle Isham took leave of him with much sadness, but did not
ask him to stay; and Letty and Plez looked after him wistfully, still holding in their hands
the coins he had placed there. With the exception of these coins, the only thing he left behind
him was a sealed letter on the parlor table, directed to the mistress of the house.

Toward the end of that afternoon, two women came along the public road which passed the outer
gate. One came from the south, and rode in an open carriage, evidently hired at the railroad
station; the other was on foot, and came from the north; she wore a purple sun-bonnet, and
carried an umbrella of the same color. When this latter individual caught sight of the approaching
carriage, then at some distance, she stopped short and gazed at it. She did not retire behind
a bush, as she had done on a former occasion, but she stood in the shade of a tree on the side
of the road, and waited. As the carriage came nearer to the gate the surprise upon her face
became rapidly mingled with indignation. The driver had checked the speed of his horses, and,
without doubt, intended to stop at the gate. This might not have been sufficient to excite
her emotions, but she now saw clearly, having not been quite certain of it before, that the
occupant of the carriage was a lady, and, apparently, a young one, for she wore in her hat
some bright-colored flowers. The driver stopped, got down, opened the gate, and then, mounting
to his seat, drove through, leaving the gate standing wide open.

This contempt of ordinary proprietary requirements made the old lady spring out from the shelter
of the shade. Brandishing her umbrella, she was about to cry out to the man to stop and shut
the gate, but she restrained herself. The distance was too great, and, besides, she thought
better of it. She went again into the shade, and waited. In about ten minutes the carriage
came back, but without the lady. This time the driver got down, shut the gate after him, and
drove rapidly away.

If blazing eyes could crack glass, the spectacles of the old lady would have been splintered
into many pieces as she stood by the roadside, the end of her umbrella jabbed an inch or two
into the ground. After standing thus for some five minutes, she suddenly turned and walked
vigorously away in the direction from which she had come.

Uncle Isham, Letty, and the boy Plez, were very much surprised at the arrival of the lady in
the carriage. She had asked for the mistress of the house, and on being assured that she was
expected to return very soon, had alighted, paid and dismissed her driver, and had taken a
seat in the parlor. Her valise, rather larger than that of the previous visitor, was brought
in and put in the hall. She waited for an hour or two, during which time Letty made several
attempts to account for the non-appearance of her mistress, who, she said, was away on a visit,
but was expected back every minute; and when supper was ready she partook of that meal alone,
and after a short evening spent in reading she went to bed in the chamber which Letty prepared
for her.

Before she retired, Letty, who had shown herself a very capable attendant, said to her: "Wot's
your name, miss? I allus likes to know the names o' ladies I waits on.''

"My name," said the lady, "is Mrs Null."

CHAPTER IV.

The Autumn sun was shining very pleasantly when, about nine o'clock in the morning, Mrs Null
came out on the porch, and, standing at the top of the steps, looked about her. She had on
her hat with the red flowers, and she wore a short jacket, into the pockets of which her hands
were thrust with an air which indicated satisfaction with the circumstances surrounding her.
The old dog, lying on the grass at the bottom of the steps, looked up at her and flopped his
tail upon the ground. Mrs Null called to him in a cheerful tone and the dog arose, and, hesitatingly,
put his forefeet on the bottom step; then, when she held out her hand and spoke to him again,
he determined that, come what might, he would go up those forbidden steps, and let her pat
his head. This he did, and after looking about him to assure himself that this was reality
and not a dog dream, he lay down upon the door-mat, and, with a sigh of relief, composed himself
to sleep. A black turkey gobbler, who looked as if he had been charred in a fire, followed
by five turkey hens, also suggesting the idea that water had been thrown over them before anything
but their surfaces had been burned, came timidly around the house and stopped before venturing
upon the greensward in front of the porch; then, seeing nobody but Mrs Null, they advanced
with bobbing heads and swaying bodies to look into the resources of this seldom explored region.
Plez, who was coming from the spring with a pail of water on his head, saw the dog on the porch
and the turkeys on the grass, and stopped to regard the spectacle. He looked at them, and he
looked at Mrs Null, and a grin of amused interest spread itself over his face.

Mrs Null went down the steps and approached the boy. "Plez," said she, "if your mistress, or
anybody, should come here this morning, you must run over to Pine Top Hill and call me. I'm
going there to read."

"Don' you want me to go wid yer, and show you de way, Miss Null?" asked Plez, preparing to
set down his pail.

"Oh, no," said she, "I know the way." And with her hands still in her pockets, from one of
which protruded a rolled-up novel, she walked down to the little stream which ran from the
spring, crossed the plank and took the path which led by the side of the vineyard to Pine Top Hill.

This lady visitor had now been here two days waiting for the return of the mistress of the
little estate; and the sojourn had evidently been of benefit to her. Good air, the good meals
with which Letty had provided her, and a sort of sympathy which had sprung up in a very sudden
way between her and everything on the place, had given brightness to her eyes. She even looked
a little plumper than when she came, and certainly very pretty. She climbed Pine Top Hill without
making any mistake as to the best path, and went directly to a low piece of sun-warmed rock
which cropped out from the ground not far from the bases of the cluster of pines which gave
the name to the hill. An extended and very pretty view could be had from this spot, and Mrs
Null seemed to enjoy it, looking about her with quick turns of the head as if she wanted to
satisfy herself that all of the scenery was there. Apparently satisfied that it was, she stretched
out her feet, withdrew her gaze from the surrounding country, and regarded the toes of her
boots. Now she smiled a little and began to speak.

"Freddy," said she, "I must think over matters, and have a talk with you about them. Nothing
could be more proper than this, since we are on our wedding tour. You keep beautifully in the
background, which is very nice of you, for that's what I married you for. But we must have
a talk now, for we haven't said a word to each other, nor, perhaps, thought of each other during
the whole three nights and two days that we have been here. I expect these people think it
very queer that I should keep on waiting for their mistress to come back, but I can't help
it; I must stay till she comes, or he comes, and they must continue to think it funny. And
as for Mr Croft, I suppose I should get a letter from him if he knew where to write, but you
know, Freddy, we are travelling about on this wedding tour without letting anybody, especially
Mr Croft, know exactly where we are. He must think it an awfully wonderful piece of good luck
that a young married couple should happen to be journeying in the very direction taken by a
gentleman whom he wants to find, and that they are willing to look for the gentleman without
charging anything but the extra expenses to which they may be put. We wouldn't charge him a
cent, you know, Freddy Null, but for the fear that he would think we would not truly act as
his agents if we were not paid, and so would employ somebody else. We don't want him to employ
anybody else. We want to find Junius Keswick before he does, and then, maybe, we won't want
Mr Croft to find him at all. But I hope it will not turn out that way. He said, it was neither
crime nor relationship and, of course, it couldn't be. What I hope is, that it is good fortune;
but that's doubtful. At any rate, I must see Junius first, if I can possibly manage it. If
she would only come back and open her letter, there might be no more trouble about it, for
I don't believe he would go away without leaving her his address. Isn't all this charming,
Freddy? And don't you feel glad that we came here for our wedding tour? Of course you don't
enjoy it as much as I do, for it can't seem so natural to you; but you are bound to like it.
The very fact of my being here should make the place delightful in your eyes, Mr Null, even
if I have forgotten all about you ever since I came."

That afternoon, as Mrs Null was occupying some of her continuous leisure in feeding the turkeys
at the back of the house, she noticed two colored men in earnest conversation with Isham. When
they had gone she called to the old man. "Uncle Isham," she said, "what did those men want?"

"Tell you what 'tis, Miss Null," said Isham, removing his shapeless felt hat, "dis yere place
is gittin' wus an' wus on de careen, an' wat's gwine to happen if ole miss don' come back is
more'n I kin tell. Dar's no groun' ploughed yit for wheat, an' dem two han's been 'gaged to
come do it, an' dey put it off, an' put it off till ole miss got as mad as hot coals, an' now
at las' dey've come, an' she's not h'yar, an' nuffin' can be done. De wheat'll be free inches
high on ebery oder farm 'fore ole miss git dem plough han's agin."

"That is too bad, Uncle Isham," said Mrs Null. "When land that ought to be ploughed isn't ploughed,
it all grows up in old field pines, don't it?"

"It don' do dat straight off, Miss Null," said the old negro, his gray face relaxing into a smile.

"No, I suppose not," said she. "I have heard that it takes thirty years for a whole forest
of old field pines to grow up. But they will do it if the land isn't ploughed. Now, Uncle Isham,
I don't intend to let everything be at a standstill here just because your mistress is away.
That is one reason why I feed the turkeys. If they died, or the farm all went wrong, I should
feel that it was partly my fault."

"Yaas'm," said Uncle Isham, passing his hat from one hand to the other, as he delivered himself
a little hesitatingly--"yaas'm, if you wasn't h'yar p'raps ole miss mought come back."

"Now, Uncle Isham," said Mrs Null, "you mustn't think your mistress is staying away on account
of me. She left home, as Letty has told me over and over, because your Master Junius came.
Of course she thinks he's here yet, and she don't know anything about me. But if her affairs
should go to rack and ruin while I am here and able to prevent it, I should think it was my
fault. That's what I mean, Uncle Isham. And now this is what I want you to do. I want you to
go right after those men, and tell them to come here as soon as they can, and begin to plough.
Do you know where the ploughing is to be done?"

"Oh, yaas'm," said Uncle Isham, "dar ain't on'y one place fur dat. It's de clober fiel', ober
dar, on de udder side ob de gyarden."

"And what is to be planted in it?" asked Mrs Null.

"Ob course dey's gwine to plough for wheat," answered Uncle Isham, a little surprised at the
question.

"I don't altogether like that," said Mrs Null, her brows slightly contracting. "I've read a
great deal about the foolishness of Southern people planting wheat. They can't compete with
the great wheat farms of the West, which sometimes cover a whole county, and, of course, having
so much, they can afford to sell it a great deal cheaper than you can here. And yet you go
on, year after year, paying every cent you can rake and scrape for fertilizing drugs, and getting
about a teacupful of wheat,--that is, proportionately speaking. I don't think this sort of
thing should continue, Uncle Isham. It would be a great deal better to plough that field for
pickles. Now there is a steady market for pickles, and, so far as I know, there are no pickle
farms in the West."

"Pickles!" ejaculated the astonished Isham. "Do you mean, Miss Null, to put dat fiel' down
in kukumbers at dis time o' yeah?"

"Well," said Mrs Null, thoughtfully, "I don't know that I feel authorized to make the change
at present, but I do know that the things that pay most are small fruits, and if you people
down here would pay more attention to them you would make more money. But the land must be
ploughed, and then we'll see about planting it afterward; your mistress will, probably, be
home in time for that. You go after the men, and tell them I shall expect them to begin the
first thing in the morning. And if there is anything else to be done on the farm, you come
and tell me about it to-morrow. I'm going to take the responsibility on myself to see that
matters go on properly until your mistress returns."

Letty and her son, Plez, occupied a cabin not far from the house, while Uncle Isham lived alone
in a much smaller tenement, near the barn and chicken house. That evening he went over to Letty's,
taking with him, as a burnt offering, a partially consumed and still glowing log of hickory
wood from his own hearth-stone. "Jes' lemme tell you dis h'yar, Letty," said he, after making
up the fire and seating himself on a stool near by, "ef you want to see ole miss come back
rarin' an' chargin', jes' you let her know dat Miss Null is gwine ter plough de clober fiel'
for pickles."

"Wot's dat fool talk?" asked Letty.

"Miss Null's gwine to boss dis farm, dat's all," said Isham. "She tole me so herse'f, an' ef
she's lef' alone she's gwine ter do it city fashion. But one thing's sartin shuh, Letty, if
ole miss do fin' out wot's gwine on, she'll be back h'yar in no time! She know well 'nuf dat
dat Miss Null ain't got no right to come an' boss dis h'yar farm. Who's she, anyway?"

"Dunno," answered Letty. "I done ax her six or seben time, but 'pears like I dunno wot she
mean when she tell me. P'raps she's one o' ole miss' little gal babies growed up. I tell you,
Uncle Isham, she know dis place jes as ef she bawn h'yar."

Uncle Isham looked steadily into the fire and rubbed the sides of his head with his big black
fingers. "Ole miss nebber had no gal baby 'cept one, an' dat died when 'twas mighty little."

"Does you reckon she kill her ef she come back an' fin' her no kin?" asked Letty.

