According to Dr. Jerdon, in some parts of India small herds of zebus have run wild. He says:--

"Localities are recorded in Mysore, Oude, Rohilkund, Shahabad, &c., and I have lately seen
and shot one in the Doab near Mozuffernugger. These, however, have only been wild for a few
years. Near Nellore, in the Carnatic, on the sea-coast there is a herd of cattle that have
been wild for many years. The country they frequent is much covered with jungle and intersected
with salt-water creeks and back-waters, and the cattle are as wild and wary as the most feral
species. Their horns were very long and upright, and they were of large size. I shot one there
in 1843, but had great difficulty in stalking it, and had to follow it across one or two creeks."

GENUS GAVAEUS.

Massive head with large concave frontals, surmounted in G. gaurus by a ridge or crest of bone;
horns flattened on the outer surface, corrugated at the base, and smooth for the rest of the
two-thirds, or a little more; wide-spreading and recurved at the tips, forming a crescent;
greenish grey for the basal half, darker towards the tips, which are black; muffle small; dewlap
small or absent; the spinous processes of the dorsal vertebrae are greatly developed down to
about half the length of the back; legs small under the knee, and white in colour; hoofs small
and pointed, leaving a deer-like print in the soil, very different to the splay foot of the
buffalo.

NO. 464. GAVAEUS GAURUS. The Gaur, popularly called Bison (Jerdon's No. 238).

NATIVE NAMES.--Gaor or Gaori-gai, Bun-boda, Hindi; Boda and Bunparra in the Seonee and Mandla
districts; Pera-maoo of Southern Gonds; Gaoiya, Mahrathi; Karkona, Canarese; Katuyeni, Tamil;
Jangli-kulgha in Southern India; Pyoung in Burmah; Salandang in the Malay countries. Horsfield
gives the following names under his Bibos asseel: As'l Gayal, Hindi; Seloi, Kuki; P'hanj of
the Mughs and Burmese, and some others which he considers doubtful.

HABITAT.--Regarding this, I quote at length from Jerdon, whose inquiries were carefully made.
He says: "The gaur is an inhabitant of all the large forests of India, from near Cape Comorin
to the foot of the Himalayas. On the west coast of India it is abundant all along the Syhadr
range on Western Ghats, both in the forests at the foot of the hills, but more especially in
the upland forests and the wooded country beyond the crest of the Ghats. The Animally hills,
the Neilgherries, Wynaad, Coorg, the Bababooden hills, the Mahableshwar hills, are all favourite
haunts of this fine animal. North of this, it occurs to my own knowledge in the jungles on
the Taptee river and the neighbourhood, and north of the Nerbudda; a few on the deeper recesses
of the Vindhian mountains. On the eastern side of the peninsula it is found in the Pulney and
Dindigul hills, the Shandamungalum range, the Shervaroys, and some of the hill ranges near
Vellore and the borders of Mysore. North of this, the forest being too scanty, it does not
occur till the Kistna and Godavery rivers; and hence it is to be found in suitable spots all
along the range of Eastern Ghats to near Cuttack and Midnapore, extending west far into Central
India, and northwards towards the edge of the great plateau which terminates south of the Gangetic
valley. According to Hodgson it also occurs in the Himalayan Terai, probably however only towards
the eastern portion, and here it is rare, for I have spoken to many sportsmen who have hunted
in various parts of the Terai, from Sikhim to Rohilkund, and none have ever come across the
gaur at the foot of the Himalayas."--'Mam. of Ind.,' p. 303. (See also Appendix C.)

In the Central provinces the gaur is found in several parts of the bamboo-clad spurs of the
Satpura range. My experience of the animal is limited to the Seonee district, where it is restricted
to the now closely preserved forests of Sonawani in the south-east bend of the range, and a
few are to be seen across occasionally, near the old fort of Amodagarh, on the Hirri river.

It is also more abundant on the Pachmari and Mahadeo hills. On the east of the Bay of Bengal
it is found from Chittagong through Burmah to the Malayan peninsula. It was considered that
the gaur of the eastern countries was a distinct species, and is so noted in Horsfield's Catalogue,
and described at some length under the name of Bibos asseel; but it appears that all this distinction
was founded on the single skull of a female gaur, and is an instance of the proneness of naturalists
to create new species on insufficient data. He himself remarks that when the skin was removed
it was evident that the animal was nearly related to Gavaeus gaurus, or, as he calls it, Bibos
cavifrons. Mr. G. P. Sanderson shot a fine old male of what he supposed to be the wild gayal,
and he says: "I can state that there was not one single point of difference in appearance or
size between it and the bison of Southern India, except that the horns were somewhat smaller
than what would have been looked for in a bull of its age in Southern India;" and this point
was doubtless an individual peculiarity, for Blyth, in his 'Catalogue of the Mammals of Burmah,'
says: "Nowhere does this grand species attain a finer development than in Burmah, and the horns
are mostly short and thick, and very massive as compared with those of the Indian gaurs, though
the distinction is not constant on either side of the Bay of Bengal."

Jerdon supposes it to have existed in Ceylon till within the present century, but I do not
know on what data he founds his assertion.

DESCRIPTION.--I cannot improve on Jerdon's description, taken as it is from the writings of
Hodgson, Elliot, and Fisher, so I give it as it stands, adding a few observations of my own
on points not alluded to by them:--

"The skull is massive; the frontals large, deeply concave, surmounted by a large semi-cylindric
crest rising above the base of the horns. There are thirteen pairs of ribs.[40] The head is
square, proportionately smaller than in the ox; the bony frontal ridge is five inches above
the frontal plane; the muzzle is large and full, the eyes small, with a full pupil (? iris)
of a pale blue colour. The whole of the head in front of the eyes is covered with a coat of
close short hair, of a light greyish-brown colour, which below the eyes is darker, approaching
almost to black; the muzzle is greyish and the hair is thick and short; the ears are broad
and fan-shaped; the neck is sunk between the head and back, is short, thick, and heavy. Behind
the neck and immediately above the shoulder rises a gibbosity or hump of the same height as
the dorsal ridge. This ridge rises gradually as it goes back, and terminates suddenly about
the middle of the back; the chest is broad; the shoulder deep and muscular; the fore-legs short,
with the joints very short and strong, and the arm exceedingly large and muscular; the hair
on the neck and breast and beneath is longer than on the body, and the skin of the throat is
somewhat loose, giving the appearance of a slight dewlap; the fore-legs have a rufous tint
behind and laterally above the white. The hind-quarters are lighter and lower than the fore,
falling suddenly from the termination of the dorsal ridge; the skin of the neck, shoulders,
and thigh is very thick, being about two inches and more.

"The cow differs from the bull in having a slighter and more graceful head, a slender neck,
no hump; and the points of the horns do not turn towards each other at the tip, but bend slightly
backwards, and they are much smaller; the legs too are of a purer white. The very young bull
has the forehead narrower than the cow, and the bony frontal ridge scarcely perceptible. The
horns too turn more upwards. In old individuals the hair on the upper parts is often worn off.
The skin of the under parts when uncovered is deep ochrey-yellow."--'Mammals of India,' p. 302.

[Footnote 40: The true bison has fourteen pairs of ribs.--R. A. S.]

The fineness of the leg below the knee is another noticeable feature, and also the well-formed
pointed hoof, which leaves an imprint like that of a large deer. Mr. Sanderson states in his
book that the bison, after a sharp hunt, gives out an oily sweat, and in this peculiarity he
says it differs from domestic cattle, which never sweat under any exertion. This I have not
noticed.

The period of gestation seems to be about the same as that of the domestic cow, and the greatest
number of calves are born in the summer.

SIZE.--I cannot speak personally, for I regret now that I took no measurements in the days
when I was acquainted with these magnificent animals, but the experiences of others I give
as follows:--

Sir Walter Elliot gives--
                                              Ft.  In.
  Nose to root of tail                         9   6-1/2
  Height at shoulder (over 18 hands!)          6   1-1/2
    "    at rump                               5   3
  Tail                                         2  10-1/2
  Length of dorsal ridge                       3   4
  Height of        "                           0   4-1/2
  Head from muzzle to top of frontal ridge     2   1-3/4
  Breadth of forehead                          1   3-1/2
  Ear                                          0  10-1/2
  Circumference of horn at base                1   7-1/2
  Distance between the points of the horns     2   1

I give the measurements of two fine heads:--
                                              Ft. In.  Ft. In.
  From tip to tip round the outer edge and
    across the forehead                        6  2    6  11
  Across the sweep                             2  9    3   2-1/2
  Circumference at base                        1  7    1   5
  Between tips                                 1  7    1  10-1/2

The following careful measurements are recorded by Mr. Blyth ('J. A. S. B.,' vol. xi., 1842,
p. 588), and were furnished to him by Lieut. Tickell from the recently-killed animal, in order
to assist in the setting up of the specimen in the Asiatic Museum:--

                                                  Ft. In.
  A string passed along the back to root of tail  8    8-1/2
  From frontal ridge to tip of muzzle             2    0
  Horns apart anteriorly at base                  1    0-1/2
  Tip to tip of horns                             2    3-1/4
  From nose to centre of eye                      1    0-3/4
  Eye to root of horn                             0    4-1/4
  Eye to base of ears                             0    6
  Humerus, &c.                                    1   11-1/4
  Radius                                          2    8
  Metacarpus                                      0    9-3/4
  Pastern, &c., and hoof                          0    7-1/4
  Pelvis                                          1    4-1/2
  Femur                                           1    7-1/4
  Tibia and fibula                                1   10
  Metatarsus                                      1    4
  Pastern to end of hoof                          0    7-1/2
  Height perpendicularly, about                   5    9
  Length of dorsal ridge                          2    5-1/2
  Tail, root to tip of hairs                      3    1-3/4
  Circumference of head behind horns              3   11
        "       "  neck behind ears               4    0-1/2
        "       "  chest                          8    8
        "       "  muzzle                         1    9-1/4
        "       "  forearm close to axilla        1   11-1/4
        "       "  thigh close to body            3    0-3/4
        "       "  thigh close above hock         1    6

I feel tempted to let my pen run away with me into descriptions of the exciting scenes of the
past in the chase of this splendid creature--the noblest quarry that the sportsman can have,
and the one that calls forth all his cunning and endurance. As I lately remarked in another
publication, I know of no other animal of which the quest calls forth the combined characteristics
of the ibex, the stag and the tiger-hunter. Some of my own experiences I have described in
'Seonee;' but let those who wish to learn the poetry of the thing read the glowing, yet not
less true pages of Colonel Walter Campbell's 'Old Forest Ranger;' and for clear practical information,
combined also with graphic description, the works of Captain J. Forsyth and Mr. G. P. Sanderson
('The Highlands of Central India' and 'Thirteen years among the Wild Beasts').

The gaur prefers hilly ground, though it is sometimes found on low levels. It is extremely
shy and retiring in its habits, and so quick of hearing that extreme care has to be taken in
stalking to avoid treading on a dry leaf or stick. I know to my cost that the labour of hours
may be thrown away by a moment of impatience. In spite of all the wondrous tales of its ferocity,
it is as a rule a timid, inoffensive animal. Solitary bulls are sometimes dangerous if suddenly
come upon. I once did so, and the bull turned and dashed up-hill before I could get a shot,
whereas a friend of mine, to whom a similar thing occurred a few weeks before, was suddenly
charged, and his gun-bearer was knocked over. The gaur seldom leaves its jungles, but I have
known it do so on the borders of the Sonawani forest, in order to visit a small tank at Untra
near Ashta, and the cultivation in the vicinity suffered accordingly.

Hitherto most attempts to rear this animal when young have failed. It is said not to live over
the third year. Though I offered rewards for calves for my collection, I never succeeded in
getting one. I have successfully reared most of the wild animals of the Central provinces,
but had not a chance of trying the bison.

NO. 465. GAVAEUS FRONTALIS. The Mithun or Gayal.

NATIVE NAMES.--Gayal, Gavi or Gabi, Gabi-bichal (male), Gabi-gai (female); Bunerea-goru in
Chittagong and Assam; Mithun.

HABITAT.--The hilly tracts east of the Brahmaputra, at the head of the Assam valley, the Mishmi
hills, in hill Tipperah, Chittagong, and then southwards through Burmah to the hills bordering
on the Koladyne river.

DESCRIPTION.--Very like the gaur at first sight, but more clumsy looking; similarly coloured,
but with a small dewlap; the legs are white as in the last species. In the skull the forehead
is not concave as in the gaur, but flat, and if anything rather convex. The back has a dorsal
ridge similar to that of the gaur.

The gayal is of a much milder disposition than the gaur, and is extensively domesticated, and
on the frontiers of Assam is considered a valuable property by the people. The milk is rich
and the flesh good. There are purely domesticated mithuns bred in captivity, but according
to many writers the herds are recruited from the wild animals, which are tempted either to
interbreed, or are captured and tamed. In Dr. F. Buchanan Hamilton's MS. (see Horsfield's 'Cat.
Mammalia, E. I. C. Mus.') the following account is given: "These people (i.e. the inhabitants
of the frontiers) have tame gayals, which occasionally breed, but the greater part of their
stock is bred in the woods and caught; after which, being a mild animal, it is easily domesticated.
The usual manner employed to catch the full-grown gayal is to surround a field of corn with
a strong fence. One narrow entrance is left, in which is placed a rope with a running noose,
which secures the gayal by the neck as he enters to eat the corn; of ten so caught perhaps
three are hanged by the noose running too tight, and by the violence of their struggling. Young
gayals are caught by leaving in the fence holes of a size sufficient to admit a calf, but which
excludes the full-grown gayal; the calves enter by these holes, which are then shut by natives
who are watching, and who secure the calves. The gayal usually goes in herds of from twenty
to forty, and frequents dry valleys and the sides of hills covered with forest." Professor
Garrod, in his Ungulata in Cassell's Natural History, quotes the following account from Mr.
Macrae concerning the way in which the Kookies of the Chittagong hill regions catch the wild
gayal: "On discovering a herd of wild gayals in the jungle they prepare a number of balls,
the size of a man's head, composed of a particular kind of earth, salt and cotton. They then
drive their tame gayals towards the wild ones, when the two herds soon meet and assimilate
into one, the males of the one attaching themselves to the females of the other, and vice versa.
The Kookies now scatter their balls over such parts of the jungles as they think the herd most
likely to pass, and watch its motions. The gayals, on meeting these balls as they pass along,
are attracted by their appearance and smell, and begin to lick them with their tongues, and,
relishing the taste of the salt and the particular earth composing them, they never quit the
place till all the balls are consumed. The Kookies, having observed the gayals to have once
tasted their balls, prepare a sufficient supply of them to answer the intended purpose, and
as the gayals lick them up they throw down more; and it is to prevent their being so readily
destroyed that the cotton is mixed with the earth and the salt. This process generally goes
on for three changes of the moon or for a month and a-half, during which time the tame and
the wild gayals are always together, licking the decoy balls, and the Kookie, after the first
day or two of their being so, makes his appearance at such a distance as not to alarm the wild
ones. By degrees he approaches nearer and nearer, until at length the sight of him has become
so familiar that he can advance to stroke his tame gayals on the back and neck without frightening
the wild ones. He next extends his hand to them and caresses them also, at the same time giving
them plenty of his decoy balls to lick. Thus, in the short space of time mentioned, he is able
to drive them, along with the tame ones, to his parrah or village, without the least exertion
of force; and so attached do the gayals become to the parrah, that when the Kookies migrate
from one place to another, they always find it necessary to set fire to the huts they are about
to abandon, lest the gayals should return to them from the new grounds."

NO. 466. GAVAEUS SONDAICUS. The Burmese Wild Ox.

NATIVE NAME.--Tsoing, Burmese; Banteng of the Javanese.

HABITAT.--"Pegu, the Tenasserim provinces, and the Malayan peninsula, Sumatra, Borneo and Java;
being domesticated in the island of Bali" (Blyth).

DESCRIPTION.--This animal resembles the gaur in many respects, and it is destitute of a dewlap,
but the young and the females are bright chestnut. The bulls become black with age, excepting
always the white stockings and a white patch on each buttock.

SIZE.--About the same as the last two species.

