You may imagine how Diana rejoiced over Sarah and petted her, and how interested she and everyone
else were to hear how the little dog had been traced to a coachman's house in a mews close
by. Sarah, on her side, seemed very glad to be with her dear little mistress again, and after
returning her caresses curled herself up and went to sleep on the sofa, no doubt tired with
her adventures. How Diana wished she could tell her all she had done and seen on that Sunday
when everyone had been so unhappy about her!

"Where did you go, you darling?" she asked her over and over again, but Sarah never answered.
She only wagged her fringy tail, and licked her mistress's hand, and goggled at her with her
full dark eyes. And yet Diana felt quite sure that she had many strange and interesting things
to tell, if she only could.

One afternoon she was lying on the school-room sofa with Sarah by her side. It was a very hot
day, the blinds were down and the windows wide open, so that the distant rumble of the carts
and carriages came up from the street below. There was an organ playing too, and as Diana listened
dreamily to these noises, and stroked Sarah's head with one hand, she began to wonder again
about those wonderful adventures.

"Tell me where you went on Sunday," she whispered once more.

To her great surprise, she plainly heard, among all the other noises, the sound of a tiny voice
close to her. She listened eagerly, and this is what it said:

"You must know, my dear mistress, that I have long had a great wish to see more of the world.
The park is pleasant enough, but after all if you are led on a string and not allowed to speak
to other dogs, it soon becomes dull and tiresome. I wanted to go out alone, into the busy street,
to stay as long as I liked, to take whatever direction I fancied, and to join in the amusements
of other dogs. In short, I wanted more freedom; and although I never gave way to temper or
became snappish, I grew more and more discontented with my safe and pleasant life. I was so
closely watched, however, that I could never get an opportunity for the least little stroll
alone, and I began to despair, when, at last, on Sunday, the chance really came. I was alone
in the hall, Hester opened the door, I slipped out unseen, and there I was--free!

"It was delightful to find myself alone on the door-step, and to hear the door shut behind
me; not that I did not fully intend to go back, for I love my mistress and am not ungrateful
for the kindness shown me, but it was so pleasant to think that for a short time I could do
just as I liked. I soon found, however, that this was very far from the case.

"At first I trotted along the pavement in the best spirits, meeting very few dogs, and those
of a very rough kind, so that I did not care to speak to them. It was, as you remember, a very
hot day. The ground felt quite burning under my feet, and soon I should have been thankful
to be carried a little while. I got thirsty too, and I began to look about for a shady place
where I could lie down and rest out of the sun. Presently I came to a narrow turning, which
looked dark and cool compared to the bright hot streets. It was quiet too, for there was only
a man in the yard washing a cart, and a rough-coated grey dog sitting near. I made up my mind
to try this, and trotting up to the dog made a few remarks about the heat of the weather. From
his replies I soon perceived that he was quite a common dog, though very good-natured in manner,
and he shortly told me he belonged to the green-grocer and that his name was 'Bob'.

"We continued to talk, and before long I learnt a good deal about his way of life, which interested
me extremely from its great contrast to my own. In spite of its hardships there was something
attractive about it too, though quite out of the question for anyone of delicacy and refinement.
For Bob was a working dog. He had to be at Covent Garden by daybreak with his master, to go
on all his rounds with him, and to take care of the vegetables in the cart while he called
at the different houses.

"'And what do you get for all that?' I asked.

"'I get my food, and a good many kicks sometimes,' he answered.

"'Poor dog!' I exclaimed, for my heart was filled with pity for him, and I no longer thought
his an attractive life. 'Why don't you run away?'

"Bob grinned. 'I'm not so stupid as that,' he replied. 'Dogs that run away come to bad ends.
Besides, I'm happy enough. I get a holiday sometimes, and a walk in the park, and on Sunday
I can do what I like.'

"'Dear me!' I exclaimed languidly. 'What a dreadful life! Now, I have nothing to do but to
please myself every day in the week, and as for the park, I go there so often I'm perfectly
sick of it.'

"'Do you get your Sundays out?' asked Bob.

"I hesitated. 'This is really my first Sunday out,' I replied at length, 'but I intend in future----'

"'What's your name?' rudely interrupted Bob.

"He certainly had no manners at all, but what could you expect from a dog of low degree?

"'My name,' I replied, holding up my head with a slight sniff of disdain, 'is--Sarah, Duchess
of Marlborough!'

"I had no time to notice the effect of these words, for they were hardly out of my mouth when
I felt myself seized by a large hand, lifted into the air, and thrust into someone's coat pocket.
From this humiliating position I heard the voice of the man washing the cart:

"'That your dorg?' And someone answered, 'It belongs to the lady.'

"You may judge, my dear mistress, how frightened I felt. Here was a sudden end to my freedom!
Imprisoned in a strange man's pocket, from which escape was impossible, nearly stifled with
the smell of tobacco, and filled with dread as to what would happen next. I managed to wriggle
my head out of the corner, but saw at once that it would be useless to think of jumping out,
the distance from the ground being far too great. I remained still therefore, and as the man
walked out of the yard had a faint hope that he knew where I lived and was taking me home.
Alas! I was soon disappointed. He turned down a mews, went into a house I had never seen before,
up some narrow stairs without any carpet, and entered a room where there sat a large fat man
in his shirt sleeves, smoking and reading a newspaper. I was placed trembling on the table
by his side, and he took the pipe out of his mouth and turned his head to look at me.

"'Nice little sort of a fancy dorg,' he said at last. 'What they call a "Blennum".'

"'Strayed into the yard,' said the man who had picked me up. 'I'm going to show it to the missus
presently.'

"'Worth a tidy sum,' said the fat man, and went on smoking.

"Was ever a dog of my rank and position brought down so low? No one took any more notice of
me, or seemed to think me of any importance, and I remained shivering on the table with large
tears rolling down my cheeks. How I repented my folly! I had wanted to see the world, and here
it was, a miserable contrast to my happy life at home, where I was fondled and admired by everyone.
Foolish, foolish little dog that I had been! I began to think too how my dear little mistress
would miss me, and how they would search everywhere and call for me in vain, and the more I
thought the more painful it all seemed. A long and wretched time passed in this way, during
which the fat man, who was a coachman I afterwards heard, puffed at his pipe and read his newspaper,
sometimes shaking his head and talking to himself a little. He hardly seemed to know I was
there, and I believe if the door had been open I could easily have escaped, for the other man
had gone out of the room. But there was no chance of that; by and by he came back, took me
under his arm and went out into the street again. Where was he going, I wondered. He had talked
of the missus, but if the missus was any friend of his I had no hope that she would prove agreeable.
It was a great surprise, therefore, to find myself a little later in a large house where there
were soft carpets, and pictures, and flowers, and everything I have been used to see around
me. Not only this, but I was most warmly received by a lady, who called me a duck, a darling,
a love, and a beauty. These familiar names, which I had been accustomed to hear from my birth,
made me feel somewhat at home, and I began to take comfort. At any rate, I was now with people
who knew how to behave to me, and would treat me with consideration. I passed the rest of the
day, therefore, in peace, though I still sighed for my own mistress, and had no appetite for
the new roll and cream offered me.

"All my fears returned, however, for to my distress I was sent back to sleep at the coachman's
house, where I passed the night full of anxiety and the most dismal thoughts. How would all
this end? Who can picture my ecstasy of delight the next morning when I heard the sound of
your mother's voice talking to the coachman below? I need not tell you how she had succeeded
in tracing me through the green-grocer, who had seen me picked up in the yard, for that you
know already. I cannot help feeling that Bob may have had something to do with my recovery,
for I am sure though rough in his manners he was a well-meaning dog. If so, I am grateful to
him. To end a long story, my dear mistress, I must remark that I have no longer any wish to
know more of the world. It is far too rough and noisy a place for me, and you need have no
fear, therefore, that I shall try to repeat my experience, or shall ever forget the lesson
taught me by 'my Sunday out'."

THE TOAD IN THE HOLE

"When is she coming?"

"To-morrow."

"Are you glad?"

"No. Are you?"

"I don't care. I wonder how long she will stay. I know Mother said a week, but I dare say she'll
ask her to stay longer as she did last year."

"Well, I know she'll be tiresome, and I shall be glad when she goes away."

"I'm going to sleep now."

"Oh, Martha, how soon you always do go to sleep! I'm not a bit sleepy yet."

A snore from the other little bed soon showed Betty that further talk was hopeless. She would
have liked to chatter longer, but Martha had a way of falling asleep at the most interesting
points, and Betty knew it would be useless to try and rouse her now.

So she resigned herself to her own thoughts with a sigh. Kitty was coming to-morrow! Coming
before Martha and she had had any enjoyment of their country life together, for the children
had only just left London. Coming to spoil all their plans and games with her tiresome ways,
just as she had done last year. Of course she would insist on being first in everything, on
ruling everyone, and would be as pushing and disagreeable as possible. It was all very well
to say that she was a visitor and must do as she wished, but that did not make it any the less
provoking.

And then Martha took it all so quietly. It was almost impossible to rouse her to be angry,
and that was annoying too in its way. "I suppose," thought Betty, very sleepily now, "that
I ought to try to be patient too, but sometimes I really can't." She fell asleep here, and
dreamed that Kitty was an immense "daddy-long-legs" flapping and buzzing about in her hair.

The next afternoon Kitty arrived, full of excitement, and ready to be more than delighted with
everything.

