 The do They
say, is not it? They found me voted unforgiving, and after all this sounds the mockery. Hand,
one day he returned, he seeks his comfort with me, as he it previously sought. He has thrown
me away, he will pick me again. The wound he is beaten, scarred, man is a monster of forgetfulness.
The bond he has broken will be mended, has only his food, the stomach and the head a Roof, it
may be already living together. 'I ventured to demand accountability, why should I do when
he answers me who gave you the right to do? In fact, who gives me the right that? My flower is
gone, what kind of bait I have, what kind of threats, as do I repay? So what do you call for
the irreconcilable to me? "

Again she stopped in the middle of the forest, they stood upright and pugnacious, like a Valkyrie,
and her Italian brown face with the big eyes made the evening twilight formally brighter.

Achim URSANNE looked at her admiringly, and suddenly the thought flashed through his mind: to
such a woman on the side I could win. He quickly lowered his eyes and replied: "In you is more than
you suspect bloom. They contend not brooding, Mrs. Agathe, you do not! Souls like burn your
should not glow. Always act on your pure feeling because this is the voice of your destiny. And
ask yourself, ask your heart pious and calm about the future, then you learn that in your own
mind no No fear and doubt. "

Agathe listened upset by what sounded like a farewell and as a legacy. She knew nothing to reply.
In silence they walked down the wooded valley and over the wet meadows against Farm. URSANNE
was in a hurry, without entering into the house before he got into the small car and drove
home the old horse.

       

* * * * *

In Randersacker waited since the afternoon on Gerichtsbote URSANNE. Bad knowing he pulled the
man from the hands of the document. It was the verdict of last resort, against which there was
no appeal, and was that the two boys within three URSANNE extradite days from the moment the
validity of the verdicts from the mother committed is because it a public nuisance causing attitude
as citizens and as human his wife to stay in his house made unbearable,
his educational principles have established the most suspicious abandoned
and thus forfeited his paternal rights.

He dismissed the messenger with a rumbling sound. The throat was parched him he had something Sharp
drink and reached for a bottle of cherry brandy in the locker. After the etching Liquid poured
down, he stood motionless, staring at the floor.

On the road down there pulled a crowd of jeering boys over. One of the three Great Danes, the
female, bark dull. From the bell tower was struck ten clock.

When the bell announcing the eleventh hour, he stood still as immobile. From time to time he
pinned a dark incredulous look on the court paper that on the big table was below the lamp.
Suddenly he began frantically to move away on holiday.

"You dog," said he to himself, "what do you want dahi? The Flayer is, your pant does not help
more. They crowd up in the corner and give you the fishing neck. Drool for, that they stirred
not that they merely amused, just drool, you silly beast. "

So he raged up against three clock at night. Then he threw himself face down on the frail, around
curved sofa, pressed his fists into the eye sockets and threw herself to sleep as one crashed into
the water. When he awoke, the room was so full of smoke from the lamp that geblakt was that
the rays of the morning sun could not penetrate it.

The chest was close to him, he had to go outside. At the water trough, he washed his face, then stormed
He through the landscape, and suddenly he decided to go into the city. Once there, He quickly ate
breakfast in a cafe on Main bridge, then he sought the professor Barenius on his university
teachers, one of the few people with whom he still Relations maintained. Pressed in words,
he reported on the last turn of the process and asked the aged lawyer if he knew no way to delay
the sentencing law enforcement. Barenius denied. "I will not give up the children," said URSANNE
grudgingly. "Then, there is nothing else left but to flee with them, and quickly and without fuss,
"was the reply. URSANNE shook his head vigorously. "Flee? That would commit an injustice. Nevermore.
" - "I do not see what else could you begin to keep the children. Do you want to contact such
as against the state to defend? "-" It will force me, "replied URSANNE wild, "I know it and I
am waiting" -. "Be wise, Achim, you vertrotzen not," warned the professor. - "For heaven's
sake, but to understand what is being perpetrated on me," URSANNE said in a whisper that sounded
horrible, "one makes me the world on the Head, and all I formerly sacred to, yes, kept only
for respectable strikes me as a witches' dance of lies. If I had striven for something extraordinary,
new ideals proclaimed or preaching a new god, I would not surprise me. But I've only done what
would have to do every honest man of social conscience. So may be because my body go! Perhaps
I traced the sword of justice, desecrated, and I can with greater
Fug than ever be a witness for the blindness and moral depravity of
a nation I love that to me once imagined.'ve "After these words, turned
around and URSANNE left the room.

could have the idea that one takes
possession during his absence, the children lashed him out for home.

Covered with sweat he arrived and breathed until he the boys play behind the barn saw. He ordered
them to go to her room, he called his People together. There were five servants in his ministry,
including the old Schermer, of the boys supervised as well as three teenage boys, he from the
Protestant Asylum brought to them, and a single girl who supplied the kitchen. It was his first
in been recently by a trader in the market Erlbach sent. She had a hypocritical Being, and he distrusted.
One of the servants in secret she wanted to talk with the Fischhofbauern, the bigoted have
seen throughout the village. URSANNE people a sharpened that the gates blocked by day and night should
remain that without his express permission to anyone be opened, that neither could leave the court and that
a who out of fear or other factors add to the would not say it right now may, the will of the
wage paid, and he could pull from there.

It is not reported. URSANNE determined the guards that, if released from hour to hour and let
the dogs were loskoppeln.

In the afternoon, the night and the next morning was calm. short clock
struck twelve the dogs.

On the Schlangenweg showed three men, one with a hump, a with a large horn-rimmed glasses and
a policeman. lured by the noise of the animals was URSANNE the oak slats of the gate. The
one with the hump, he knew it was the enemy Lawyer, the court might have been a functionary
with the horn-rimmed glasses. When the three persons above were developed between the lawyer and URSANNE
following conversation: "What do You? "-" I hope that you are informed of the purpose of our visit.
"-" This is me. " - "Well, then. Do you want to engage us? "-" No. "-" What does this mean? "-"
It means I did not recognize the verdict. "-" Are you mad? "-" I refuse to give up the children.
" - "That you can be costly -" Certainly;. I pay for things on their merits. " The officer and
the policeman pulled his eyes in astonishment. In the ugly face the lawyer showed compassion. "It must
be obvious to you that you are a crime make guilty, "he said," if I will refund the ad, in half
an hour and twenty Police here and you can imagine that it will not be long until the law;
either way, order is made. There can be no objection that your own person fall into misfortune,
but want the poor ignorant people whose breadwinner you are directed to malicious object, you have
no right. Liking you to consider the circumstance. "

As silent URSANNE. The accusation hit him. He could not deny that he here a indelible guilt
laid on and no longer a pure heart before the tribunal of mankind
allowed to connect.

His first impulse was to the people on whose support he counted to send away, because the deeper
meaning of his intention was merely "the odds, he had to give the watch, and to feel physically,
so that the degree of injustice to fill, though he is shamefully submitted. When she fired a shot
and shattered the doors, who had enough; to meaningless unequal battle it did not come. But this
desire for a symbolic Action will not ride the reality, and these decisions are of a coarser
kind URSANNE trembled with itself once again rose the terrible defiance, and drove with lust
it him to ruin and destruction, but at the same time it was as if to a look of Love needed any message
from the homes of the Fates, a Pythian consolation. It shone in his eyes, he pushed his glasses
into the air to freely look at the sky, nodded to himself, and as he turned towards the house,
he asked the lawyer, he should to wait a little while.

He went into the room in which there were the boys. They sat with a peculiarly dogged Faces at the
window facing each other and let their legs swing. URSANNE took a Chair and sat down with them.
"Listen, boys," he said, "your mother sends to you."

The four legs belonged to commute on, and four eyes were URSANNE intently. "What does her, "he
continued, seemingly harmless," will you end up with the strangers to your mother ? Go, "No
sound, just a greedy, research-squint. The blood rushed into the URSANNE Ears, with difficulty,
he fought for the language. "Or do you want to stay with me? Speaks only of fresh the liver away.
"The younger boy, who had the more open character, jumped up, clapped in his hands and cried: "To
the mother, oh, mother! We want to, you know, Friedel? " Friedel smiled oddly tricky, and his
father saw through this desperate moment the cozy loose stubborn and dishonest spirit of this
child. "So you want to better your Mother go, "he said, without betraying the effort, which cost
him the words. Now exclaimed both boys, "Yes, mother," redeemed, joyful and with one voice.

URSANNE looked around the room. He sought the old servant, and when he opened the door to call,
Schermer was on the threshold. "Pack your clothes and toys for the boys," URSANNE spoke to him,
"in a half hour, they must be ready."

Then he returned to the back yard commanded that we put the dogs on a chain and locked themselves
to the gate. The lawyer and his companion entered. That was fine enough, the altered behavior
URSANNE to acknowledge with a silent bow. On the road had been a lot Villagers gathered, men
and women, and staring with evil, malicious faces upward. An old farmer raised both fists and
threatening a bald man who was walking on crutches uttered with crowing voice curses and insults. URSANNE
saw and heard it, saw and heard it either. As if by electric shock, he started when he Schermer
told that the children were ready. You came, she shook hands, constitute on his toes to kiss his
cheek, her eyes sparkled and her movements were full of vivacity, - URSANNE saw it and saw
it not. The lawyer was saying something, the Functionary took off his hat, saluted the constable,
they were all gone, Schermer was behind him two bundles, one saw him waver far on the road, the cripple
below screamed hysterically, the Dogg females began to cry, but stood Achim URSANNE become
like stone. The servants, he was scary. They fled his sight.

The next morning was reported to him that the farmers had managed to poison the dogs. He was
again all night left lying around on the curved sofa. A Bottle of water, sausage, cheese, bread
and fruit stood next to him on a chair. In the whitewashed Room ceiling had formed the cracks
and fissures remarkably interesting figures. He had they stare at
constantly.

He did not know how much time had passed when one night a Woman's voice rang through the house:
"It burns, burns Lord," it was the maid who URSANNE! aroused. The two barns and the wash house
were already taken by the flames. As URSANNE stepped into the open, blazed the roof of the building
as sticks. The landscape was largely in a red glow. The church bells were ringing, the village
woke up and got into zeal, the servants had already made to the deletion, but could not stop
the element to do, was too little water. The maid, who, strangely enough, her Sunday dress on its
body, knelt and prayed outside the fence. Towards morning, the firefighters moved of Wurzburg,
and the flames licked but only in four ruins.

URSANNE went into town and rented a guest house in the vicinity of the cathedral. The dirty little
room, he wrote the following letter to Agathe.

"It's all over. Them to report the events in their series, plus I
lack Courage and clarity of words.

The children are gone, house and yard are cremated, myself am on the way to France. I leave at
home anything back, which I separation difficult.

I clear out the memory of a country that murdered my strength, my abilities suffocated, paid
my devotion and my soul with contempt the incurable disease of misanthropy has instilled. I go
to France to the war in service to . Connect The French continued to beat while in Mexico, in
Algiers and in Asia. The Marshal Montauban, known and notorious for his expedition to China, know
of me, for he was a childhood friend of my mother. Farewell, dear wife. Your image steals
my last experiences some of their stranglehold disgrace. Give the poor refugee sometimes a
friendly Thoughts.
 It was exciting to hear him.

"Now it got this far, that bakers and grocers want to sell me anything," concluded he his report,
"people I had once helped to spit out, when they see me. Women and children run away from me. Today
I have received seven threatening letters, anonymously of course. The farmers I throw stones at
the field, at night they demolish the fence and do my Dog killed with poisoned meat. Who greets
me only who is already banned, and it was not a small venture by Sylvester to come to me. You,
Mrs Agathe not seem right, known to have what you were doing. I'm an outlaw. Who am sullied, earned a
salary of God. I'm like a carrion, fatten on which the ravens. Well, we shall see. It will show,
yes, the extent to which human baseness can walk, it was a real desire in me, their to learn
about boundaries, so strange it sounds, I'm always surprised when they In a new development.
presents'

Agathe had gradually reduced his eyes and looked silently to the ground. Now and then ran a Chilliness
of their limbs, and it seemed to her as if she had no idea until this hour, in what kind of world
she lived. It was dark in your mind, and also so eloquent silence for URSANNE, she even took it
as a proof of weakness, even of complicity. She put hand over his eyes. Achim continued his
walk across the room continued relentlessly. To the windows, someone
was over a pitch torch and the flame was bent like a belt.

"Do you want me to lead your children?" Agathe could be heard at last. URSANNE nodded, she got up
and followed him through the corridor down the hall to the first floor. He opened a door and
she stood on the threshold. The two fair-haired boy sat on the ground and looked at a picture
book. crouched in the corner between the stove and the wall old servant with the clay pipe in
his mouth and fell asleep. The children were pale and resemble each other like twins. They hardly
moved their heads as the door opened, she looked just wrong to Father and of the strange woman
across. Agathe came upon them, bent down and spoke tenderly on them. But they were silent defiance,
and pointed to the lips of the older boys are a strange smile lurking. Agathe perplexed looked
at Achim URSANNE, and she noticed that his face had darkened, and that his lips twitched. She
rose.

"I must now go, "she said," I would be home in the evening. Will you give me message if Sylvester
wrote to them? "

"I, Mrs. Agathe will, I am sure," assured URSANNE in his true-hearted Ton. can "And with your permission
I will also answer your visit as soon as I breathe," he added, "I
feel as if I must thank you and may I's, as are They also did not
come because of me, I know that you come a second time because of
me would.

Is it true? "

"It's true," replied Agatha, and she felt something like gratitude. He accompanied them down
to the car and the three large dogs were around him, and her eyes
glowed from the dark.

"What do you advise me to do," asked Agatha, while her hand was already under control The
car door had made.

"When I call back the impression that Sylvester made on me, I must say he is said to no good
train, "URSANNE. "It is best if you remain completely silent. Be generous. There is in every man's
life a time when he loses God, and if because he has someone who loves him, what is more natural
than that of a little god Role is taking over? I did not think that could happen between you two things,
But a marriage is for the third just about the most mysterious in the world. And men and Woman,
what they know about each other? The proximity makes cruel, the distance blind, feelings are
forgetful, Words air. And yet, believe me, is a word often achieved much. Sometimes, when
I heard such bickering two little people or other silent tear, I was tempted call out to them: children,
why are they not telling you the right, good word? How it works me in the theater when the
lords make another scene.

It is very much voluntary in the wicked, add the husband and wife each and every act of love
will take revenge by Hassestat. Be generous. "

With almost impetuous movement stretched Agathe out the friend's hand, and he firmly pressed
in his. Then they got in, nodded again out the window, and the horses started.

Agathe's heart was heavy. The two children she could not forget the strange lurking The smile
of a boy, the sleeping servant behind the stove and Achim URSANNE twitching Mouth. It was for
them a disaster proclamation in the picture, and it seemed that she was with the impending disaster
linked.

Was this the reason that they are more determined than previously found in their situation?
Was it the Comparison of the fates which it voted more patient, more seriously, collected?
She turned her attention to the economy supervised the delivery of the timber and victuals,
the repair of plows and wagons, the care of the animals in the stables,
and counted every Saturday with the inspector from.

Your insight was deeper, her thorough knowledge of the situation
and in dealing with the people they employed was intelligent and well
able to .

Govern But it was as if she diligence and effort to the bottomless pit waste than making one Day
of the Würzburg banker once received a certificate stating that to Mr. of Erfft to Paris three thousand
thalers had been sent.

So at least they knew where he was.

Sometimes the inspector arrived with her violin, Agathe went to the piano, and they played a Mozart
sonata. Sometimes she read, but rarely share. In many an hour was gloom irrefutable, and if
you can cry inside, they felt such tears, then she fled the Sight of all the people who were on the
property to them, rose into the tower room of the house motionless, looking into the wintry
landscape, until it was evening.

Once spotted Silvia, while the mother went and followed her. The wise child stood before long
the door, not daring to open it, and finally put it down, and its beautiful Eyes filled with sadness.
It was cold up there, the wind howled in the rafters, and when the snow slid on the tiles,
it sounded as if ghosts feet tripped over the roof. It was dim and seemed to Sylvia that she
was all alone in the world.

She leaned her Head to an oblique bar and thought of her father. She imagined, as in the Stranger
in a crowd as he was wandering around and can not find their way home, could because everywhere
the snow was too high. As the door creaked, and Agatha, the fur coat around the Shoulders came
out. She saw the child's feet, frightened and knelt down. Silvia embraced the mother, without
speaking; Agathe covered the freezing of her coat, picked them on and wore them down. The fireplace
in the library, she put the child on her lap and told him the story of juniper tree.

"... And as a month had passed since the snow was gone, and two months since it was green,
and three month, the flowers sprang from the earth, and four month as crowded all the trees in the
wood and the branches were growing into each other. There, the birds were singing, that all the
wood resounded and the blossoms fell from the trees.

There was the fifth month over and the woman was again under the
juniper tree, where her heart jumped for joy, and she fell to her
knees.

And when the sixth month was because the fruit were thick and strong and she was very still and
in the seventh month, as she reached for the berries and ate his fill and was sad and sick. The
eighth month passed and she called her husband and wept and said, if I die bury me under the
juniper tree. As she was comforted, and nine months she bore a child as white as snow and as
red as blood, and when they saw that she was so pleased that she died. "

Silvia boot looked like a woman, and Agathe went on in her story.

The next day a messenger on horseback came by Achim URSANNE. He brought a letter from the contents,
that Sylvester had written from Paris. "I'll not ship the epistle," wrote URSANNE, "even for
what? He's only hiding his face. He tells of the beauty of a Dancer, and that any Countess has
an affair with her coach, that the Marquis brought de Luzon has two tigers from India that some
Creole throughout Paris at your feet lies, and that they drink fine
wines at the Spanish ambassador, and he raves about the exotic flowers,
the Lady of the breeds Feurquiéres and the jewel of the collection
Duke of Praslin, from the image of a famous young painter, an encounter
in the Versailles palace, with a cruise in Passy in good company on
the Montmartre and from a fire station in Luxembourg.

Enough of that, it's foam. Some but has a colorful wreath on his head if he can not sleep for
the guilty conscience. I think a lot to you, but I can not come,
so that says everything.

       Last Sunday from the pulpit been preached down to me.

Good-bye. AU "

It's all over, thought Agatha, and she felt like it was in their hearts dark and dreary, as she slowly
walked into the hall to pay the messenger.

* * * * *

In Karlsruhe made Sylvester station.

He visited several friends, went to court and was invited to a soiree at the castle. Previously
he had spent a whole afternoon out to have his face taper, by Adam dog, mostly on the art understood.
He had all the utensils in a black colored, oblong box, which with its silver clasps looked like a small
coffin, it were in his razor-blade and curling tongs, files, various brushes and combs, powder
and ointment boxes, tubes, Glasses with Essence, a syringe with kölnischem water, and on the inner
side of the cover was a polished mirror is mounted.

Adam dog was a thin man, yet he was bold, all so bright to him, the hair that Face and the eyes,
yet he made a dark impression and dissatisfied, at least as long as he did not speak, he looked like a
gentleman, yet he evoked a sense of threadbare. This contradictory person, where one in every
nook and cranny on the contrasts of the human nature came, had to Sylvester's delight more and more as an
implacable Misogynist turns out. The six-year-old had been living with the evil beer brewer's
daughter fills him with deadly hatred of the opposite sex.

He was in possession of a list that enumerated in alphabetical order all the bad qualities
he to the women had discovered, namely, superstition, stupidity, jealousy, stubbornness, greed,
pride, gossip, Whimsy, frivolity, falsehood, greediness, envy, curiosity, boastfulness, Finery,
obstinacy, sensuality, mockery, strife, pleasure seeking and extravagance. "And in this pit of
qualities throw millions of men, her poor soul," used he proclaim, with a gesture like Hamlet when
he shows his mother's spirit.

First, he had not quite grasped what is the purpose of the journey of his Lord. The Incident
with the beautiful Jewish woman explained to him in a pleasant manner. He was convinced that
Sylvester was in a position to his, was very similar, except that he did not bewendet inaction
could be resentment, but practiced active revenge. He is just as much from the long-haired
daughters Satan bring disaster upon themselves said Adam dog, so they finally the Kushner learn,
and he felt a hunting attend that his services as Watchdogs and trace Finder took to complete.

While
he was Sylvester brunette hair a more youthful cut, then the mustache rightly hesitated, then
rubbed her face with fat, such as a dough kneading and how a Metal plate rubbing, he told the City
News that he had spied. "It is now a singer to be here the whole man bewitched people, "he said,"
is the crown prince every day in the theater when she plays, and
they say that they want to send him abroad, in order to prevent a
mishap.

A Councillor is alleged to have shot her sake, and in Stockholm,
one should not believe that there are people up there so hot, has
a Bookseller's assistant for the love of her plunged into the sea.

Gabriele Tannhauser is, the bastard. The whistles and lures, just so one of us goes crazy.
Should I get a ticket, Baron? "

"So to my mind is you not afraid?" Sylvester said, laughing.

"No, my Lord, if one knows the ropes, he faces no risk. As soon as I realize that someone will
catch me with a bait, I will not bite into it, I run ', also not like this, on the contrary,
I take the juicy bait the hook and eat it, then the angler has a disadvantage and I have my
joy. "

"Well, you can learn something from you," Sylvester replied dryly.

Adam dog had finished his work. He pulled the peignoir of Sylvester's shoulders, and caressing
his lips pursed, he blew away a few hairs from my neck. Sylvester was front of the mirror and
half with scorn, half pleased, he considered his image. He saw young and healthy. His eyes
glistened. He smiled to examine his teeth, they had a pleasing brightness and density. Now,
he completed his suit and left humming the room. If now the sun was shining, I was a happy man,
he thought in a peculiar state of oblivion and expectation.

He went to the casino and heard that was spoken at all tables of the concert, Gabriele Tannhauser held
this evening.

He was asked if he had a ticket and had to deny. "And you have not yet heard" - "No," -. "Never
heard" -. "Never" - "And do leave without having heard them," - "What do I do" - "It is the last
Opportunity, perhaps for years, and now goes to London and then, as it is, after America. "-" If
I may advise you, you will pay any price for a ticket. "-" Man has offered me none. "-" Let
me make sure I'm going to the Impresario . Business "

After an hour it turned out that this attempt was unsuccessful. Sylvester was satisfied without
much regret.

The general excitement touched him embarrassed especially since he saw people also infected by it,
for which the art was no more than about a clown in the marketplace.

He sat down at the reading table and immersed himself in the report
on the last speech, the had held the Chancellor in the Prussian Diet.

The man interested him as a man more than a politician, his words had been something absolute,
but their power through often broken due to circumstances apparently. He stood in a cloud of anger,
they felt the will of a born ruler, and a fire in the New Year's wish awakened by fertile
workers. It was a moment when he suddenly felt the time as only themselves, their fermentation
became aware of such underground roll of a distant Earthquake and its onlooking dullness was
ashamed.

While he was reading was one of the men who had added him so violently,
accompanied by an older man to him, whom he introduced as Count Blumau
the earl had a ticket to forgive, because his wife was unable to attend
the concert.

Sylvester took it with thanks and went back to the hotel to attract the tails.

Prior to the concert hall was large driveway. At eight clock should start production, but to
half past eight still a part of the audience in the hall was wedged against the doors. Finally
all the audience were in their places. The room was so full that
the heads on seemed to turn immobile bodies. The noise was like the
hum of voices and files an immense steam saw, and the heat rose from
minute to minute. Sylvester was sitting in the Middle of the room,
which both sides had smooth white walls, halfway up the rear Narrow
wall was a gallery, having seats for members of the court and some
preferred Dignitaries were determined.

Suddenly sounded eager hands
clapping, then the opera glasses focused on the singer, which had
entered the podium. Sylvester folded his arms across his chest, which
is an expression criticism of readiness was in vain because, as people
often the case, it was the Homage uncomfortable, you offered up a
person for whom he felt nothing and even whose services he was skeptical
judge determined spirit of opposition already. On the muddy road forward
had it so slow that he got out a few times and hurried on with quick steps. It was getting dark
when he saw the houses of Erfft. On the road there was a small Tavern, he ordered the driver to
stay here and reproduce long until half an hour, then he struck in the early darkness at a familiar
footpath.

The square in front of the house was deserted. In the rooms still were no lights, even in the hallway,
it was still dark. He climbed the stairs, no one was in sight, no sound. At the end the gangway
was Silvia's room. The light in the keyhole like a star. Because of stepped a door on the
left in the dark only a defined shape. Sylvester stopped. "Is that you, Agathe," he asked
softly. Agathe screamed and clung to the the post, as if to flee if she and her the way would
be cut off. The door of Silvia's Room has been opened and appeared on the threshold Oesterlein woman
with a warning finger raised. It solidified to a whisper even moving her mouth as she caught
sight of Sylvester. In the wide, flowing into the hallway light bulb
could see each other New Year's and Agathe's eyes.

He gave her his hand. Silent and cold her hand was in his. "How are you, Agatha?" She did not answer.
She pointed to Matt Silvia's room. Sylvester hand to his forehead; five steps, and he stood before
the lighted room. Oesterlein woman wanted him to enter denied, he flung aside. Agathe followed
with a dull smile. As New Years Eve overthrown Silvia's bed on his knees and was desperate
in the fever-swollen Trains the child looked as if he who love pointless words, the pitiful
groan heard, the broken, hot, searching, not knowing eyes met, he clutched hands in the cloth
and felt himself to death, the soul of his soul at risk. A Action, a commitment, a vow, a crazy
prayer, a call to God, a contrite Sink down, arrogance that denies a fate, while it takes place,
such as void low and he felt it myself, as it resembled the dithering
of an animal that will crush!

Agathe laid her hand on his shoulder. He understood her, got up and walked behind her from the room.
In the hall she said: "Last night we thought we already had it out
with her because suddenly she began to doze.

Today at noon the fever has returned with redoubled force. Earlier, the doctor was here. Can the
fever in an hour, that content is lost.

"

The inspector and his wife had heard of Sylvester's arrival. They came up the stairs and greeted
him.

Sylvester and a half hours sitting in his room. At eight clock came in and Agathe said: "She
sleeps," Sylvester was to redeem himself as a looped rope around
his neck..

       Agathe sank into a chair and covered her face with her hands.

"I'm tired," whispered after a while, "I have devoted a wink since yesterday. Also, you will
be tired. Good night. "

In his whole life, Sylvester had not felt so alone as in the evening in his own house.

* * * * *

The human being is made up of days, the days have their periods, each of the Times have you
need to sleep, the one work that others, saturation, the third, and who want to sleep, which
has the bed to be addressed, and who wants to eat, the food must
be cooked be, and what if two people live under the same roof, they
are by petty needs dependent on each other, and avoid them also, they
are bound by things, the Care of one falling on the enjoyment of the
other, the evil that lies between them, cut in pieces, the good that
you are looking for driven, in unexpected paths, not feeling remains
resolute there, the view reveals the intention of the word they obscured
are physical proximity of the A quality atmosphere, which influence
the thoughts and decisions is increasing and what was planned brave
ends in doubt and cowardly press on.

Sylvester learned this. He had come to tear a tape, and now embraced this band in hundreds and
hundreds of turns of his limbs, and each attempt, the shackles were To discard generated a wound.
As Silvia had regained their senses and he to her was allowed to enter camp after they had been
prepared when the child embraced him as frantic and was laughing and crying and trying to look
into every project and whether he really wanted to know was whether he still loved was that he stay
at home and much else that they could only stammer and sob when her hands are always out after
him again, when he, in order to preserve their condition, face, made
to retire, because he started the chain and the wounds they scraped
to feel, and helpless, he wondered what would happen now.

Shortly after Agathe came into his room. "I ask only one, New Year," she said; "The child may
temporarily not know how it is to us. I do not want that, between is something we discussed
before Silvia is very healthy. When we are at it, it can be inevitable that sometimes we both
are with her, we must guard carefully excite their suspicions. It would kill you. "After these
words away Agathe again. Sylvester asked in amazement: "What do they mean? What does she know? Does
she want me understand, given that it will give it to the extreme
and wants to make me tender by uncertainty?

"

But he was astonished at their attitude, their dignity. They greeted each other in the morning,
they said another good night in the evening, they were talking cool and peaceful at the table,
they smiled each other if they were sitting at Silvia's bed and felt with such close attention
Sylvia watched her, she could even, on evoked by Sylvester Schuldenkalamität negotiating objective,
and forth came as the Major and his wife to to pay a visit to the convalescent, Agathe played
the comedy of a wife who her husband a false step magnanimously forgave and lived with him
in new honeymoon. The Major was dark and restrained, you could see it in him to a confrontation This
time they wished and only avoided Agathe's sake, Martha was full
of mockery of the supposed Agathe's stupidity and Sylvester showed
a contemptuous coldness.

Countless times, said to Sylvester: "I bear it any longer But there was something in Agathe.
the forced him down and made docile. Often it was a word on the tongue, which she needed had
to stand by him talk, it froze and was without substance, before he opened his mouth. Secretly He
walked around the house, secretly, he whistled to the dog and walked into the forest, he secretly
read a book, secretly, he spoke with the inspector and gave orders and commands. Agathe faster
bold step pursued him, and it creaked at night, the floor beneath her step and she fell asleep
yet. Relentlessly echoed her deep voice. Her eye was clear, the eyes fixed. And never with any
gesture she counted on his good pleasure, and with severity, they
emptied everything what reminiscent of female cunning to female to
female weakness and longing could.

She was present, he could not even the name of Gabriele think. The name contained the strange
but the most familiar, a run on a mysterious island Fairy tale life, happiness and resignation,
guilt, and deprivation. He loved himself from this Anguish of heart and sweetness mixed feeling.
His mind was in a light-resistant Noise, he thought to sense that he was sought that, the distance,
with their dreams of him go and he loved himself in her dreams. He saw her beautiful figure
in the dark Dress with gently restrained movements: the young girl. She mourned. But already
adopted the World on them, which she belonged, whose creature it was through their art, they
already forgot the man who stood at the boundary between two ages and to their youth and their
art wanted to cheat, forgot her passion for him, how to make a mistake and his own, as you forget
a beautiful sunset. First love does not choose: the young girl is the creature of the lover.
Art is a juggernaut, it eats souls, leaving only the appearance of their victim Self-determination:
the singer goes to the people as in the legend of the swan maidens go on moonlit nights to
the shore and be condemned and rejected when they The magic dress
robbed.

Sylvester began much as the law and the need to understand what he
as a short-sighted Malevolence of fate had complained, and full of
resignation, he concluded that his useless life, unnecessary and was
consumed.

One evening, it was about a week after his homecoming, he was sitting at dinner with Agathe. They were
the first time alone at table, had been Agathe always the inspector and the Woman invited. Sylvester
listless and ate in small bites and found the gathering oppressive. "Marquardt added drop a hint
that Achim URSANNE no longer in the area bored, "he said at last,"
that's new to me.

I forgot to ask the inspector about it. Do you know anything more? "

Agathe told how she had visited a year ago, Achim URSANNE, as is clear from a conversation a friendly
relationship developed between them, and how one summer in Erfft
been, as a few days later the estate was burned down in Randersacker
and that he had written to her.

The letter, she knew almost by heart, word for word.

Sylvester frowned. It was the bright spirit of contradiction, of him to remark caused: "It seems
to me but that the good Achim a bit like a fanatic and obstinate
has acted.

To live with people, you have to know to make use of them, but not
they turn through childish defiance in hell.

"

"You think?" Replied Agathe quiet.

"I think, however, that he has acted like a man."

Sylvester suddenly looked at her face. That had sounded razor sharp. "There are many Species
to act like a man, "he said repellent.

"No, there is only one."

"And that would be?"

"She is: reaffirm the fact that even outside the well-being somewhat selfish else, something
higher exists. "

Sylvester shrugged his shoulders. After a few minutes he stood up, bowed politely and went to the
library. He threw himself into the wide upholstered chair and thought about Agathe's words after.
He hated her because she had the courage to tell him like he hated them, because they its
expression exerted so deep an impression on him, he would have liked to gone back to her call
out: "I hate you," if he had not felt in addition to the hatred of something small and caught
him made. He crouched motionless for several hours through. Suddenly he sat up and cried aloud:
"It has to happen today. For both of us there is no room in that house. "

In the dining room was already dark. He had not taken the time and wondered when he saw that
was past midnight. But since he wanted to use the moment was awarded the highest momentum of
his purpose, he entered Agathe's bedchamber, determined to wake her. He had lit a candle and
carried it in his hand. When he opened the door had, he was amazed to see that was standing
in the room a packed suitcase. Agathe slept fixed. Her face was pale to the eyelids was a train
from fatigue. Sylvester hesitated. He had always felt awe before bed. While he was still, his
eyes fell on the small desk and a letter written shortly before certainly,
there was still open.

He sat down and read: "The child is thank God so much that I can go for several weeks to Martha.
Remain with him until you return yourself Erfft forsaken. I give you freedom. I do not prevent you
to create yourself a new life, which corresponds to your hopes. I realize that I can no longer
satisfy you, and you must know that I can meet you spend no more respect, without which a marriage
to hell. Do not be deterred by concern for my future happiness or unhappiness. I am healthy and
strong, and an event to which I was prepared as long as can, I not shatter. Obey the voice of your
heart. May it be a blessing for you. The internally and externally's disposal in due form
and carefully carried out quickly, may I ask you well. Agathe. "

Sylvester read the letter three times. Then he heard a noise and turned
around.

       Agathe was awakened and had, with his head on his hand, half erect.

Silently they looked across; Silently, he looked back. With an involuntary movement Agathe
pulled the blanket up to the chin. No foreplay was a smile on her face, but no anger, No surprise,
no question, nothing but an indescribable peace. Sylvester got up, took the candle and said. "Good
night, Agathe," he raged in the most bizarre, hostile to each other Feelings, but if you had him
down on the rack to give it to entpressen a word, he had nothing else to address them as this: "Good
night, Agathe."

In the library he reached blindly for a book. It was the Bible. He hit a page on and read in
the Proverbs of Solomon: Keep your heart, for the same swell life.

* * * * *

Agathe was gone. When Sylvia asked about her mother, did not Sylvester, what he should say, because the
child had an eye, before the lie is difficult to let. Often considered to the father so searchingly,
as if it were from the security of the present circumstances no convinced. She could get up,
but had to guard the hard winter because of the room. On waking, the father was her first word,
her last smile in the evening was for him. He played Ball or lotto games with her, or he sat
on his knee and told her stories, which was mostly by pirates and ghost ships of the question. She was
attached to his mouth with a delight that was not only the history they admired his voice, his
way to speak, his eyes and the movements of his eyebrows. Tenderly she guessed, any Mood in
which it fell to his charge, and then they focused on their own.

Thus passed away one and a half weeks. Sylvester was during this time many writings, as now he could
see only the mess in which he had plunged the economy. He correspondence with agents, with
private banks, and with a rich old uncle of the Westphalia lived and tried earnestly to atone for
his folly again. In all this was its location so strange that he always had the feeling that
he was doing something completely different than what he would have have done. Waited Agathe not that he
went away?

Was not it his most audacious Request pre-empted by him with what
he had her do abkämpfen?

How was it that he did? He understood up for it. He forced himself to think, he found only
excuses. Such an excuse was when one day he said, needed it to the unnatural Hesitation to
put an end nor a conversation with Agathe. He sent her through the Gardener's boy a letter
which read: "Dear Agathe! Tomorrow I will forty years old. Perhaps this is because of a hesitation
that you may seem inexplicable. The Stations of the Cross on which I stand in the solstice of my
life fills me solemnly against my will. I can not look at your night letter as a conclusion.
Give me the opportunity to see you again. We must separate from each other as friends. An
existence in paradise would be bitter to me, if I knew alienated. I will propose that we meet
tomorrow afternoon meeting in Dudsloch, it is a neutral place between the hostile camps. Notify
me to come if you will. "

Agathe was the messenger of oral consent.

Dudsloch
was four miles from Eggenberg and removed six of Erfft. It was in
pretty flat landscape and was surrounded on three sides by woods,
was in the southeast valley. More than a dairy called to a farm, it
was just a simple farm house and some stables. Sylvester rode to the
lunch was over and Adam dog received with melancholy warmth, Mrs Brigitte
dog with a failed curtsy. Brigitte put weight on representative manners.
That she was a shrew, recognized one of her high voice and her sweet
smile, acid, from which they imagined that it was winning. Adam looked
down come, the great world in which he was wrong, stuck still like
him to stay in his own pictorial language, of a rose-leaf of a Pitchfork.
 I've carried around with me as a pregnant
woman with the shoot until you were essentially until you appeared. I have other roots as
you enjoy eating when no food is there. Yes, I want to believe be, what you say is the greatest
misfortune of my life, because you're right with everything you say. What should we do but,
I do not like. Except that I do not exist without you can, I know. Let us flee, Gabriele, go with me
on a ship, let's go over the ocean, Just try it with me, shows perhaps it is that your fears were
unfounded - "

"Now you're lying to you yet," interrupted Gabrielle softly. "There is no freedom of Presumption,
there is no law that creates only one for himself. Of course, there are people bring about the kind,
but I do not robust and you, dear, are not unimaginative enough.

We are human and have to do what is human. "

This they said with such a sinister majesty and calm that Sylvester was frightened of her.

"It was my plan tomorrow to go to Bangor," she continued, "you have believed that we together in
Bangor could be. But it must not be.

I do not know that we never will once again see how I could, but we do have to give us the opportunity
to reflect, you me and thee. So if you stay in Bangor on something is, I shall elsewhere .
Go Answer me, Sylvester. Angry with you? How hard it is to do the right thing! "

"I will not go to Bangor," Sylvester said haltingly. Involuntarily stretched Gabriele the arms,
and with a dull sound, he rushed to her.

In took tremendous movement it to his head and pushed his face in her lap. She bent over him
and stammered: "I love you, then? I love you do not know. Yes I love another man who was not there
and I do not know. Now you must go, Sylvester. Go now, leave me alone, go now, farewell. "

       found two hours after midnight on New Year's table in his bedroom
sitting.

Before it was a gun he looked intently. Since it seemed to him as he heard the door creak
and as a kick in. Agathe and when she put her arm around his shoulder and cheek to his Forehead
and sighed deeply. His head fell on the table, and he wept like a child.

* * * * *

The October days and nights passed without Sylvester perceived its impact. Like an out sleep
awakening frequently he lived torn apart. Sometimes he sat chatting with Madame de Rhynow he was
sober and calm, but he made secretly over every word funny that he used. establish a specific
allegation seemed to him no sense at all and it would have been the thinnest, beweisbarste. He went
to the club and spoke with and that, most often acted so that it mechanically about the opposite
of saying what the other had said. To his surprise, a call came of it. He ate and drank and surprised
that he was driven by a need. He went to a tailor and visited substances for a suit, as he did, he
was surprised that he did. The life which he led, cost much money, and as he was with his stock
to an end, he signed a bill, But no one was aware of this responsibility.

His observation was still the same remained. So it occurred to him that Adam unusually busy with
writing letters. He confronted her, and Adam confessed that he corresponded with Anna Ewel. At the
mention this name Sylvester expressed his index finger on the right and the middle finger on
the left eye and his face was the expression of disturbed thinking.

Adam dog had had numerous opportunities to meet with Anna Ewel and the to have superior feel that
it is in the world gear acquired. He was in the black Bohemian a faithful listener found, and because
of self-love of a man not so much flatter than when a young lady's moral judgments as well as the
stories his adventures listens admiringly, then had to deny a postal name, should continue to
spin the fertile spoken communications prosperous, now give. Adam taught his pupil, especially
on the road they must take, to get a husband. "In the first place, it is advised that one is
a possible mysterious behavior take pains," he wrote, "if has eased as a garter and filling one about
painful thoughts, because you're in good company and nota bene not dare to Fix it, it is advisable
to wear a melancholy air to the show or to speak with most profound longing of a rhymed poem.
It is appropriate at all, if a woman speaks of things that they do not understand you believe
the men, they understood even less of it and say to each other, the woman has an unusual Spirit. Of course,
such is not enough. You must also expensive Anna, washed and excellent be combed, some gaps
in the external person to know stuff sent, ointments and scents apply without intrusion, in
the presence of other little food, even if you have such a large Hungry, and then the Gimpel
once caught, so it has no more That's Not the strange thing is that so rare a free himself, and I
will also tell the reason why it is so. Namely, we men, we take the women seriously, we want to show
them something we want to refute them, we disagree with them as with our peers and, worthy of
veneration Anna is the stupidest thing we can do. This makes them tick hold of us like the
snail the leg of an ox, and while we believe, to walk with us on
the paths of life, they do nothing but lazy leech on our flesh.

"

In a strange reason Sylvester discovered that Adam also received messages from Erfft. Recently,
Adam was cooking his meals and even occasionally served up his master balls in sour broth or
after Frankish Art fried potatoes. He did not leave the spot until Sylvester had praised his work,
felt encouraged by, the English cuisine to reason and ended with a prize of native things. Even
his evil wife appeared him in a friendlier light, and one day he defended it against Sylvester
with a zeal as if that she had accused of the biggest crimes. "That with the principles and
male dignity is a good thing, "he pleaded with the constantly silent Sylvester, "But she knows
how to bake an apple pie, that's where your heart to the body. The other day was the inspector
Marquardt with her and could not eat it enough. He has written to me that it holds in Dudsloch
exemplary order, while in Erfft everything topsy-turvy. The mistress, but is certainly the
exception of sex, cares only little about the economy and the people and let seven straight.
Sometimes the Lord Major over, orders that he is shown the household books, grumbles about the
consumption and negotiating for hours with the lady behind closed doors. It is sad if the Lord is
not there. "

Adam had been mistaken when he believed that this eloquent and careful description unrefreshing
states to make impression on his master.

Sylvester did not answer, and the indifference of his face filled the diplomatic incident carrier
with concern.

An extreme degree of desire can create a second reality. Tied up in each Consideration fled Sylvester
meaning in another realm that is not dreamed of, the essential full was for him than to touch
and to behold with bodily eyes present.

While He regularly followed apathetic and the instinct of certain habits and the hours of the
day gave what they asked of him, his spirit and his soul had migrated, the body as a randomly moving
envelope behind him.

He did exactly that in this era of his existence of internal and external property at stake was: reason,
pleasure, activity enjoyment, wealth and health, the inherited and the acquired; He knew what
he had lost and what he took away every minute of the deadly incubation: its Pride, his self-confidence,
the power to act, and to be a serving member, he realized that he invoked privileges of youth was
no longer allowed, that the reference to the failure highest happiness, the contempt for human
obligations would not apologize, that over the passionate a moral commandment was, but he dug himself
deeper and deeper with desire over in pain, and the realization that his youth was over, once
and for all time that it glows for the last chosen for the last time was the last time the bliss
of Alienation, the desire of the charm, the sweetness of the charming
and Blutesnähe Schauer of rebirth in another heart felt that all this
was gone, forever there, as forfeited by sentence of death, just the
understanding darkened his mood and ruined his Will.

He lived twofold. His real life he led in the castle at Bangor. Hallucinations, which renewed
and continued, he made the familiar strange district. He saw the old Norman castle with its ivy-covered
courtyards, the blunt tower and the jagged walls. He walked across the old drawbridge, and talked
with Sir Randolph, while at the same time the sea looked. Some men went chatting home from a
sailing trip. The young people Cricket was played, they hurried with cheerful laughter from
the meadow across, and the white Dresses of the girls fluttered in the sea breeze. The gong sounded,
a long buffet table was covered, and silver and china on the table is lifted appealing against
the braungetäfelten From walls. Two dogs, a Pomeranian and a terrier whirled, barking through
the hall, and Lady Canning, who had their migraines, complained about the warden. Miss Holland,
a very thin girl with freckles, said that she saw a large steamer Brazil have, and Monsieur
Renard claimed in Barrow you have spotted a whale. Sylvester denied the possibility and Gabriel
took his party. A jocular word struggle ensued , and Sylvester's wit attracted general pleasure. Monsieur
Renard, vexed about his defeat, was comforted by Mrs. Watch, which he filled her with chocolate
Bonbonniere enough.

Sylvester went down to the coast of the sea and saw Gabriel in the distance. She gave him no Characters,
although they seemed to expect it. She wore a traveling suit and looked tense on a boat approached
the shore. He could not reach her, his feet tangled in undergrowth, he bent down to make himself
free, and when he arose, was Gabriele disappeared and with it the boat. He called the surf drowned
out his voice; He hurried back to the palace, sought her in the chapel, and in many rooms, and
it was as if every room he entered, had left shortly before. But he was constantly the feeling
that she was waiting for him. Since it was night. Every one was asleep in the house. Sylvester
went through the long, dark corridors and opened Gabriel's bedroom. It was a very large Room
with three huge windows, above which hung curtains of crimson damask. On a mirror console
a candle was burning, and far stood in the recess of a wall Bed in which Gabriel was. She
had not locked the door because she was waiting for him. At the same time they had hoped for
his sake that he would not come. He knelt on the bearing back and took her hand. She fled
visibly, their souls fled before him, she trembled like a captive deer. When he looked at her, she
shook her head and pressed her fingers imploringly his. The night turned into a creature of nature,
but her blood, her eye and the Resistance already weary limbs he resisted. Since he first felt
its full value, the all the innocence of her heart, what is stunning and awe that must be the ever touched
to the onslaught of sex shall be subject only to the highest pain of their love. He gave her
the names of flowers, which she had used and thought of beautiful animals in their grace remembered.
Insuperable aversion forbade him to embrace her, and he loved her with-sacrificing Fervor that
stifled all sense revolts. The night he crouched in their Bed, and before he went, bent it
toward him, fearlessly revealing the beauty of the shoulders and the noble game of youthful body
lines, threw her arms around his neck and kissed him.

One afternoon she came to his room in London. It was the last and decisive Encounter in this strange
experience outside the real. At dusk they entered. Your face under the veil was very pale. He knew
what they had driven, he understood their compassion and their suffering, their questions and
accusations, and now it was decided for him, that he had to go home and ask Agathe his freedom.
From the hour was to the weakness and beautiful melancholy left him.

On the same evening he wrote a quick note to Gary, where he laconically, but began with the sound
played most serious of his plan accordingly.

The next morning, used he and Adams help to pack or five clock he was sitting in the railway,
port it to the station brought. Adam hummed pell-mell joy church and pub songs.

Exactly three days later, Sylvester saw the Kupeefenster from the
Würzburg Marian feasts, was built on the still accessible, since they,
during the main campaign three years ago by the Prussia had been set
on fire.

       November fog shrouded the city in fluffy haze and hanging on the
vine hills conducting electricity was colored by the setting sun blood
red.

* * * * *

The effort, which had been Agathe in the first months of her being alone business, and household
to protect them from those Verlotterung that must be set is required when the recognized head
missing, had turned into apathy, as the foolish and reckless effort that drove Sylvester,
appeared to have been. She loved the money, but they respected it because it represented a certain
amount of work, thoughts and deprivation and secured the personal independence. More used to
save and even modest Needs to meet only if they were inevitable,
caused a waste of Sylvester its horrors and, after he had raised the
bank deposit, entered in relation with moneylenders was the wasted
crops in advance, currency put into circulation, so the specter of
necessity and had provoked the Schuldbedrängnis their disgust and
contempt.

She left the inspector Marquardt for the oversight of both goods, initially only in form, Finally, in every
way, because in order to be active, they needed the belief of the conveyor and the apparent success,
but here they could only help in the slightest, however, a voracious Vampire life marrow from the possession
of so-called That the paid servant of the advantage rule not provide
on their own, would it was clear, and with the thought of infidelity,
neglect and poor management of the business they had long been familiar.

Her

sister Martha, wife of Major spoke to her to but after the child Eggenberg to move, the Major
would then manage and Erfft Dudsloch by his cousin That can be of an experienced economist.
Agathe refused. "I ate with you and your husband but only my bread, "she said," and not fit to
me. Things go wrong, I will I have to be here at least, although I can not change anything, watching
the destruction is better than merely guessed. "

At that time the Major knew nothing of Agathe's money problems, only the garrulous inspector gave
him information. The following Sunday he came and drew Agathe in a formal cross-examination. She admitted
only what they could not deny. She claimed that Sylvester was with their consent traveled abroad, his
lifestyle, and cheap they have to complain no cause. "I do not believe you, "thundered the
Major;". either you're blind, or do you want me blind " - "I wish I were blind in the sense that you
mean," said Agathe with involuntary Openness. The Major flared. "All right, so I'll write your
lord husband, cried he, "and if he still has a spark of honor in his body, he will not be in
doubt about what he owes you and the family. "As Agathe came very close in front of her brother-flashed
threatening him with their wonderfully energetic eyes hard and determined and said, "You'll he
did not write one line, Konrad. Not a line, you understand? Neither you nor Martha. From the
day when this was done, you had me to the enemy and I will no longer knew. " The major affected
lowered his head, went to the window and drummed on the windows. Agathe but by her voice was deep
and quiet, continued: "Sylvester owes me nothing and owes nothing to the family. He knows what
he is doing and is doing probably what he must. That He is not a man by the regulations, have
you always known, now he proves it, and we must . Resign ourselves to "The Major shrugged his
shoulders:" If you resign yourself to, has no the right to defense, "he replied," but I am glad
however, that once again in the fall my old word for truth is: a bad citizen, a bad man And that,
my swallow dear sister, that you need, you make him so eager and the lawyer. "

After a few days appeared to Martha and her sister tried to list for
a determined Step to be determined.

Agathe saw through her quickly and she had sold almost contemptuously. In sustainable upset came
back home and Martha's sister was angry for months. The major, much too kind to share the
exasperation of his wife rode once a week after Erfft brought Silvia with a doll or a dress and
examined the bills, submitted by the inspector. Agathe was grateful, though they of the futility
of such Assistance was penetrated. That the Major might be a little bit in love with her, fell
its not a dream.

In the neighborhood and among friends about the mysterious absence
of Sylvester many talked, as may be imagined.

 

Ominous than it was months in the home gained such power over New Year mood. He remained for
days in his room, shut the shutters and lay in the dark. Each foreign His face was unbearable,
and every sound from the street disturbed him. If the faithful and Adam took care of the door,
knocked, he answered, first at all, then overwhelmed him the anger and he ordered him to insults
to the controls. Late at night he went out to eat and often went hungry back home. Most of all
he dwelt on the river, late at night; leaned over a railing and watched as the water flowed and
barges and small Steamer glided. He declined to give an account of what he can. He was not
accustomed to think about themselves. His pain had nothing to do with his actions create, although
he was clear about that he no good and wholesome, but only had produced harmful and bad by them.
He recalled the meetings Recently, the adventures and entanglements, he found himself the emptier
and colder, the more clearly he envisioned, and Evelyn's pale, dead face had only one flame appearance
in the cold and poverty of his chest thrown like a torch in the ruins of a house. His Pain emanated
from the very rock bottom of life, and sometimes went with him an immense Longing up in their clutches,
he dragged the unconscious.

Once he dreamed that he had broken up with Adam dog Erfft.

They rode through the forest, Adam forward with a lighted torch. It is a stormy night, the
branches crack and sigh bend the stems. A torrential rain beat down and extinguished the torch.
The impenetrable darkness kills all hope in Sylvester, and he can think of nothing but one thing:
not only back, just not home. He feels the warm body of the horse Adams and hears frequent acclamation,
the insured is nearby. They are mistaken for hours long about, and when morning dawns, the
horses begin to whinny, and Sylvester maintained through fog and rain throughout the house. Furthermore,
he feels such despair that He is on the horse's neck and prevented him pushes a knife into his
chest. A jet of blood swells, rises higher and higher and lit on fire. Adam is gone, the house
is empty, Sylvester investigated and does not know what, panting, he runs through unknown areas,
the air is exhausted from the fountain of blood red, he falls to the ground and wakes.

In this awakening, he formed the intent to go back to people, so that
in its Lived nearby, not the constant spectacle of self-destructive
actions had in mind.

He called Adam for shaving, dragged with the pure joy brought out his box and treated Sylvester
such as a disease of the convalescent, but otherwise he was mad at England because He got nowhere
to eat soup, and called the English sad hungry. His gluttony grew to the same extent as his delicate
needs vanished.

Just to fill the time Sylvester was in the evening to Covent Garden
Theatre, not because Gabriele Tannhauser sang.

More unexpected was the deep impression she made on him. Two Days later he met her on a rout at
the Duchess of Devonshire. They saw him as He stood in the door seemed to remember him and smiled
at him briefly. Since they surrounded by admirers, he disdained to penetrate her. He noticed
that she is not at all a lady was, not at all as a star for a delighted crowd, but he did not
forget how she stood slender and graceful, sparse in gestures and watchful behind their particular
obfuscation.

The multiple ways of social life had stations where you always met.

Even the next day he saw Gabriel at a ball at Lady Tankarville again and the following at a
dinner at the home of Lord Keith. She had great success in London, all young men lay at her
feet, and venerable grandees of the empire were her admirers. She seemed hardly to notice.
The burden of the obligations of her fame imposed, oppressed her. She complained to Sylvester
that they suffer from the climate. He advised their physical activity at recommended her to
walk, to ride and started lawyer offers them to protect on trips. "I can a poor slave," I replied,
"I my yoke . Not dismiss "In the fall she would recover, she said, she was invited by the Cannings,
to come to Bangor and I intend to spend several weeks there. It touched not unpleasant, as Sylvester
told her that he too will be in Bangor. She found favor in the conversation with him. Its open,
spiritually ransacked her face had sympathy awakened.

Sylvester had an old friend in London, a woman of Rhynow, the wife of a consul. She was literally
in love with Gabriel, who provided many services in the foreign country,
and as she took a pleasure in bringing people together, which she
liked, she invited Gary Sylvester and often one at tea.

Excessive delicacy made her believe that the harmonious meeting of the two would be disturbed
by their presence, and so she went mostly from the room after they had entertained their guests.
The left behind had their situation should take a joke when they do not seem awkward.

Gabriele was without Arg, even against itself, you near a people happy, which lays in his world
was softened and their sensitivity to the same world. She could always return to their loneliness,
they had the security to get lost can not and when she learned he
was married, her confidence grew against him, a girlish Train and
a philistine at the same time.

Sylvester said his feeling of friendship, he said, that his heart was tired, and he believed
it. The magnetism to test, he moved out, he no longer felt he had wasted him, torn apart into
small coin. He held ignite incapable and unable to be inflamed. When he saw before him Gary, in
the glory of youth, which she wore like a burden when he looked into her eyes, in which unconscious
and poignant beauty of willingness was, it seemed to him Resignation natural and decent.

In this proud and humble spirit, he wrote to Achim URSANNE to which it is now sometimes as a
secret messenger objected: "That I am living in my time, my fate; I look at them, already contains
a triumph over fate. I stand before you as in front of a mirror. It breathes me against the world,
she shows me the man at the moment where I have been able to escape myself to her. My self-consciousness
is my victory over the Time.

I can close my eyes, and the world and time to flow into me, no single has more power over
me, I have the power of the dreamer over the whole. I would like compared to a mourner, who lives
in unapproachable seclusion, yet is harassed, threatened, feels the utmost concern, and especially
in the second of the last Hopelessness an enchanting solace receives, so that his forehead, from the
new dawn touches, a glow emanates mystical rapture, while the breast unpoetic still in a Darkness
is buried. "

But Sylvester was wrong. The whole wisdom was desired misunderstanding of what in it was happening.
Attracted him to gesture with which attacked the girlfriend after a roll of music? And those
with which she raised her arms to tie the veil? And those half-royal, half tentative, with whom she
opened a door? Was not a mischievous smile, a stealthy View material for brooding? Did not follow the
imagination of the slender figure in it alone?

Eavesdropped on them not the thoughts behind the forehead of the girl curiously tied? Was not
be feigned indifference, he did not feel like he changed his bonds, fled escaped its certainty?

When
she sang at Lady Jersey Poland brought by Chopin, this song, in which a vision of umschauerte
melody from the darkened with passionate grief support rises like a lover, which arises from
the camp sick to once again embrace the Beloved, The first time he felt the shame, the one holding
a secret to the public good be seen, and he struggled to hide his jealous fever. He felt as undress
and they did not know, throwing himself in front of the general greed, violated heart she, the chaste
had.

That evening he went home like a drunk, was the lamp burn until it was day, had his eyes open
and was not able to think.

He had traded up to this hour, it is behaving as a man who is free, the no Duty chains, no consideration
is lame, he had separated from his wife and child had not written, and hardly thought of her for
ten months lived a life as if the ten years been before the only episode of a night would
be. So deep was his belated wonder about the lunatics rushing, the wrong-without responsibility,
the existence without memory and without goodness, so sharp, he also
realized that the will to return him still dominates had the awareness
that the dark hike is an unalterable goal.

Now But he longed for real freedom. He fought against Agathe. He reared up against their silent
call. Their abandonment is not awakened his remorse, but his hatred. The Semblance of law with
which they accused him, fierce and the power that they suddenly afar exercised over his mind angered
him. But when the first ray of morning sunshine into Room was detected, it terror and contrition,
nor can I avoid the danger, said he is, there are in any fate for a moment where the mind is
his last voluntary cheating, I will not miss this moment, I want to leave, I still can not, I
would be lying if I make a forced vorschützte where only weakness.

He jumped up to grab with the decision. Adam was to call it too early, but he wanted everything
for him to merge, then they could take the Vormittagszug to Dover. When Open a drawer, he saw
the shoe of the beautiful Rachel, whom he had found on the stairs. The memory of a fire that
has been cleared by the time tinged with the past with fatal cold. Discouraged Sylvester threw
himself on the bed, and suddenly he remembered a Amount of domestic inconveniences: it is a winter morning,
and smoking in the breakfast room the furnace through a cracked tile, it returns back hungry
from the hunt and must wait because the cook an argument with the
inspector has had, in Dudsloch has a servant timber thefts committed
and you must notify the police; Schwager Eggenberg has announced his
visit, and the whole house smells of sauerkraut, the favorite food
of the majors is, all this is so small, so sober, so well known, so
boring, so ugly.

Sighing, he fell asleep.

Around noon, he was awakened by pounding Adams. Please reply with a letter was there. Sylvester knew
Gabrielle large, angular writing yet, but with a beating heart, he unfolded the paper. You wrote
him that she had been cleared for the afternoon and like a walk with he wants to do, they
have also asked Mrs Rhynow of this, which is prevented.

Adam stared in astonishment at the prevailing confusion in the room, as Sylvester had Clothes and underwear
taken from the containers. "Bring 'only everything back in its place," ordered Sylvester shortly.

*
* * * *

They walked through the park in Richmond. Under the open sky, people have a truer Face than in rooms.
Gabriele took each step, the nature and even as a gift. Sylvester thought of Agatha, Agathe
in delight, as long as it susceptible to their disaffection, when she was tired. Gabrielle had
a gentle, thoughtful silence.

She listened to his words, as if they were a change of light and shadow, not as Agatha, the
awake too, the word like a living thing seized and stimulate increased from him and left. How much
loved He's gentleness to the women; gentleness with the fire inside,
the earth is gentle with her hot core, the dark night sky with its
hidden light.

       Even in early days He had courted the image of the gentle woman,
and now he knew only what his side of Agathe was missing, which had
no flexibility, made entirely of will and action and only could forget
selfish reverie.

Gary felt that a Northwest went with them. She was asked to close. Whimsical Game of the Einandererratens,
and while they sought a way to question, said Sylvester, it was he noticed that they so seldom
questions put to him. She smiled and asked, whether this applied to him for a deficiency, it was
true that she could not ask, they have never learned. "Man is there to ask," he said, his
eyes asked a question. You stood under a huge walnut tree, the sun was setting, and the green
of the grass overlaid with sweet, purple shades. By the summer moist air, swung swallows in
varying form. Gabriele smiled again and then she asked: why he was so restless is? He was silent.
She smiled for the third time, she realized that the question was too general courage and
gathered for a more limited, why he never far from his house by his
wife, his child speak?

He blushed. "Of which binds me to speak," he replied with lowered Eyelids, "I will also be free."

"Man is not free in a marriage," said Gabriele very seriously.

"You can be free or not?"

"No. One can never be free, "insisted Gabrielle with the same seriousness," is a marriage not before
God and before mankind is? "

"What are you talking about, Gabriele," Sylvester said angrily. "This is Pfaff morality."

"No. There is blood law. "

"Blood law? So slavery? "

"Maybe serfdom, it must be you.

Too much of a part in the other Part, too much indelible happened. "

"But I love Agathe not," Sylvester turned an apprehensive.

"Whether you love or not love Agathe, which is the same," replied
Gabriel, and her cheeks glowed.

"Marriage is about love. It is therefore of love because they have two People united. From a
two man can not do everything. And if you can not Agathe love is in you in there, you can
not live without it. You can be unfaithful to her, but you can not find love without Agathe.
She is always where you are, always, always. If it were only a woman, that would be tearable
tape, but she is a mother, and between you a child grows, and you are both falling. "

It was Sylvester felt as if he had lost his happiness for ever.

He looked desperately to herself.

As it began to dawn, they went to the road, where the Phaeton was waiting. They got in, and
Gabriele nestled in the corner. In their eyes, still burning the flame of eloquence; the Ionian curved
lips had an expression of soulful power. He got up and walked past the women, and he did it only so that he in passing, with
his sleeves, the garment could strip the inspector, in the second, in which it happened, he
believed they possess, in the same second he was also aware that he had gone away from Agathe
and the child that he by his fall, perhaps , Would cause that but prevent it from staying this
decline could not. He presented then after Agathe's chair, Agathe looked up at him, and she
smiled happily, because she saw him smile. But his smile was not her, it was the other, also
to him looked up. And although he was familiar and comfortable trains Agathe's familiar, as
their way of speak, think, laugh, cry to them to him alone enträtselbaren characteristic Forms
had given, although her face him like a bowl full of tender and sacred experiences was that had
changed his life and embellished, hung his thoughts and feelings but to the ordinary and empty face
of strangers was nothing more than pretty, pretty, young and unknown.

He was followed by the inspector or spoken, yet he had the game for
the second volatile to start trying.

But he had himself conceived. He saw a metaphor for his distress Someone wants to go on a journey
along the way to the station he met a friend of his Travel widerrät urgent, and the company of
his friend's delight, they spend days, weeks, Years together, but finally proposes the retained
conscience, it was not the same certain order, which it once led to the trip, but it was his inner
impulse; it is as if he had been the one to be disobedient, as he had deceived himself, he tortures
the thought of the beauty of the landscapes he has not seen the possibilities and prospects
that have escaped him, and his present happiness may still be large a sense of irretrievable loss
will not let him come to rest.

Sylvester wanted to once again be free. Do I know on which day the
door behind I will close? he asked himself.

Do I know what I hinschleudern, powerless, desire, make tired? He pictures emerged of manifold
temptation. It called him votes from all sides. He wanted to live, live without purpose and without
measure. Not the luxury of the cities, not Festivals and socializing it departed, it was like
a dream. Take to be taken and were words, before whom he stood in front of a jungle. If it gets
to the infinite configurations of life was thought about him a shiver, he did not recur since his
youth had. He staggered away and was looking for the place. The variety of ways beguiled his
eyes. A varied as expected storm surge within him. It had not only smiling faces be able to
see tears he was ready. He already knew his heart was involved, nor It is not too late, he
said to himself, nor is the wonderful magnetism in me that I lost to have feared. And then
it just arrived. This was to be tested. His soul was filled by a crowd of colorful geniuses, when
he walked in the woods or alone and was hinsann right to he saw women and girls with beautiful eyes
and beautiful hair and they were waiting for him; each was decided in a quiet movement, each
with their peculiar him happy way to be. But the reality of a new spell had won for him: one,
which stood at the well and drew water, one that was sitting at the window of her room and
to the moon looked up, one behind the fence waiting for her lover, one that is shrouded in
a carriage drove to the church, one that flushed his eyes and then bent down, to make her shoelace.
Each had their secret, the eyes of every woman were mysterious; he loved her eyes to the pain,
each eye was it an unexplored world, this was the Divine, the supernatural, but the sensuous,
which were close to their hands, gentle, proud Being by himself, stripped strange, wonderfully
structured, unconsciously, the most treasured emotions betraying.

His heart is languishing for tenderness, for it had become clear that the passion he did not
know. He had loved, often and violently, he had as a young man of many unusual experiences of
encounters, of dedication, many hours with grace and joy, some weeks
of Intoxication, many a night like that half-liked suffering, and
make the sad experience, but a feeling that kills anything on the
market and a new life creates it, which dissolves and collected in
the same breath that everyone seems to know and for what but only
God's favorites chosen to be that he did not know.



The wisdom and kindness of heart of the Emperor Rudolph, whom the grey- haired ruler's friends
called "Wisdom," had certainly chosen the right course for Heinz. When the opera was over, Sylvester went behind the scenes. Anna Ewel led him in a corner
where Gabriele remained hidden from many people that her wardrobe besieged. She crouched on
a wooden cart, and ate a pear. About the costume of the raisin they had beaten a black cloth, and
the white skin of the neck and bust shone moist peculiar. "I want to go home as I am," she said,
"we can use the theater left unnoticed, if we go through the dark passage there. My coat,
Anna. "

"Shall I come for?" Said Sylvester. She nodded.

In the villa outside a snack was prepared, but Gabrielle was not hungry. She had Sylvester some time
alone, then she turned in a gown of soft white cashmere back and sat down quietly at the table.
The windows were open, even autumnal evenings, the trees and breathed out a delicate musty smell.
While he was alone, had Sylvester took a lute, that hung on the wall, he had looked at it and it
felt wonderful that slumbered in the instrument unknown melodies that he could not elicit, how
much wonderful sight it seemed to him now Gabrielle, this breathing
body, from the sounds the Deity conjured up, which turned the poverty
of the people of wealth and sobriety in exuberance.

His fingers glided over the strings scattered and produced a gently vibrating noise that of a distant
wind harp similar. Gabriel took his lute from her hand, she moved
in familiar rebuke, and her face had a wistful expression, as it some
dark Chords struck.

Then she shook her head and decided to put aside the lute.

"I'm up, New Year, dear," she said, "you know it, that I love you. How did it happen I can not
explain it, including, it need not be explained. I'm not just a woman better and no worse than
others, and how to get over it, that you are, just you whom I love. Speak to me of happiness, comfort
me with no hope, do not say, forget that I should and that there are hours to compensate, and
that his desire to one another can have when the world comes tomorrow. This is all not for
me. Look, dear, you are like one, which I can only keep a hand, the other rests in the hands
of a other. The other has put her life on you, she wants to and can not leave you, and they
could also, for me it would only be alive for you, and you're the man not that throws a living
creature into the grave. I feel so, what about you, but I can not do what you ask. Non-Agathe,
not the child's sake, if you with me are and I see you, I feel as if I could get over it,
but also at what one Honorable mentions, is me, no more. But I do love the way you die very,
very and without rest The eerie creaking of a Mitrailleuse
was looking around him curiously, it was like an animal sound and average the heart. The piccolo
player suddenly made a jump and fell on his face. How can one be awkward so thought Sylvester
and called to him, he should get up. A friend leaned over him. "He's dead," he said. At the
same moment also saw this, in the head taken as a piece of wood. Why and why not me? thought
Sylvester surprise.

Just in front of the old castle was Bazeilles Dorival. Weathered cupids looked out of the bushes. In
the past pulling Sylvester had the same feeling he had as a boy when the school had to go and was
approached on the way to be Spielverlockung him.

Since two steps next to him exploded a grenade, a man at his side was carried an invisible ax head
ripped from his body, he went a step and collapsed like ashes. At the entrance of the village of
the dead were three and four on each other. The soil was splashed with blood. Blood ran in a groove,
as usual, the rain water after the rain. Although the sky was sunny, it was dark in the streets
and in the evening. From all the windows staring gun barrels, even from the windows of the burning
houses. crashed out of some cellar hatch half a dozen shots at once. Each barricade was paved with
hundreds of corpses. Many were by peaceful faces, as if they were sleeping, others showed again
a Expression grim variety of torture and more new divisions advanced, wildly cheering stormed
they were in the main street, and after several minutes she mowed down. Each individual building
was like a fortress to be conquered. From the burning room came the cries of the women and children
in the pandemonium. rained continuously from the rafters of the roof collapsing Sparks down. At
a fountain stage saw a badly injured Sylvester Hunter of the third Battalion. The man was the hip
shot, and he seemed to suffer thirst. Sylvester store a soldier to give him water, but asked the
wounded man a cigar. Also in Gabrielle's eyes was fear, the ghostly head appeared her as
a threat, they felt their youth, their power, their freedom as a property which they only robbed,
she remembered that face, she had seen it somewhere, and while she thought sounded, her voice
pure, pathetic and pleading. The audience was racing, as they had finished, but the gallery
was dismayed convergence. You could see the Canon put your hands in the air, rattling sounds broke
down. 

"Well, we'll see," said the Major, "we'll see. Incidentally, in the newspapers nothing, I only have
so my private messages. has the Prussian Minister in Paris written about eight months ago to
Berlin: the air smells of gunpowder. I have a lot objection against Bismarck, but you have
to say, the man sees his head set up and nothing can be dropped. The French have become arrogant and
diabolical Emperor Napoleon sitting on a shaky throne, so he wants to employ his subjects. "

"Go
me, my dear," said Sylvester, "your policy smacks of the pub regulars' table."

"And if war would result," threw an Agatha gravely, "how can you over so great an evil look?
"

"You do not understand why I am happy sister?"

The Major said with a boyish Enthusiasm, "we beat them, the guys,
we'll beat the shit".

"But you still do not," Agathe said, smiling.

"No, I do not," sighed the Major, "for me in so old cripple is not
what to think.

Sylvester, however, can still be his man. "
Agathe fixed her frightened eyes at her husband. Sylvester frowned.
"I find I no longer employed by the army, "he remarked coolly," and
then would be yes's probably be a war against Prussia. "

Prussia?
"Went to the Major," Heaven and weather, it seems to me he did not
even know anything from a defensive and offensive alliance. No physical suffering, its not that it violent, dark
and made irritable, and its not, the instinct behind a bulwark of- and characteristic cold was
hidden, she could put off.

One morning, when Sylvester was sitting with Silvia in the room and she taught in French grammar,
him a letter was delivered. At the sight of the handwriting on the
address he changed color, got up immediately and went to the library.

Trembling, he opened the envelope and read:

"My dear friend! I suspect in your home and hope that this greeting from distant reaches you. For
seven weeks I'm going here in America from city to city, and it is all so foreign to me as
if I were not myself, and what I have with the people speak and how I live seems like something
invented and unnatural. Before I 've traveled from England, I promised the Viscount Horace Darrington,
but We will get married until he returns from India, and will take two years. After these two
years I'll stop singing. I'm not tired, of course, the applause I'm tired of the intrusiveness
and curiosity too, and scared me is sometimes in the Thought that I should every night in another
bed to lie down. But it's not what my intent to say goodbye to the public, has generated and
can be more and more; It is the feeling that I have given what I could give and that everything
else just Craft and art is at most. Still drives me, an unknown force, as it is whether to declare
something, tomorrow perhaps it is no more command, but merely habit and holy is the hoax. Today and
tomorrow, pray rattling? That's my business not, if I am no longer meets the prayer, I am a
lost creature, a homeless And woman must beg of life, which can give the art a woman never. Now
I know a house for me and a guardian in it, and what has been, remains in its beauty . There
I felt that when we were still together, without you I would have gone blind to the border, dreaming
at that moment, the next you are awake, I had no way seen and unsatisfied, myself misjudging, always
wanted to dream back. What I would also like to say to you in the miserable words I have?
 "Achim," The hammer of the gun was pulled. Sylvester
dropped to my knees.

Achim had scarcely heard the cry URSANNE when he rushes. "Sylvester,"
he gasped, raised his eyes and umkrallte with the fingers the neck.