The Drawer has only one more practical suggestion. As the right of voting carries with it the
right to hold any elective office, a great change must take place in Washington life. Now for
some years the divergence of society and politics has been increasing at the capital. With
women in both Houses, and on the Supreme Bench, and at the heads of the departments, social
and political life will become one and the same thing; receptions and afternoon teas will be
held in the Senate and House, and political caucuses in all the drawing-rooms. And then life
will begin to be interesting.

SHALL WOMEN PROPOSE?

The shyness of man--meaning the "other sex" referred to in the woman's journals--has often
been noticed in novels, and sometimes in real life. This shyness is, however, so exceptional
as to be suspicious. The shy young man may provoke curiosity, but he does not always inspire
respect. Roughly estimated, shyness is not considered a manly quality, while it is one of the
most pleasing and attractive of the feminine traits, and there is something pathetic in the
expression "He is as shy as a girl;" it may appeal for sympathy and the exercise of the protective
instinct in women. Unfortunately it is a little discredited, so many of the old plays turning
upon its assumption by young blades who are no better than they should be.

What would be the effect upon the masculine character and comfort if this shyness should become
general, as it may in a contingency that is already on the horizon? We refer, of course, to
the suggestion, coming from various quarters, that women should propose. The reasonableness
of this suggestion may not lie on the surface; it may not be deduced from the uniform practice,
beginning with the primitive men and women; it may not be inferred from the open nature of
the two sexes (for the sake of argument two sexes must still be insisted on); but it is found
in the advanced civilization with which we are struggling. Why should not women propose? Why
should they be at a disadvantage in an affair which concerns the happiness of the whole life?
They have as much right to a choice as men, and to an opportunity to exercise it. Why should
they occupy a negative position, and be restricted, in making the most important part of their
career, wholly to the choice implied in refusals? In fact, marriage really concerns them more
than it does men; they have to bear the chief of its burdens. A wide and free choice for them
would, then, seem to be only fair. Undeniably a great many men are inattentive, unobserving,
immersed in some absorbing pursuit, undecided, and at times bashful, and liable to fall into
union with women who happen to be near them, rather than with those who are conscious that
they would make them the better wives. Men, unaided by the finer feminine instincts of choice,
are so apt to be deceived. In fact, man's inability to "match" anything is notorious. If he
cannot be trusted in the matter of worsted-work, why should he have such distinctive liberty
in the most important matter of his life? Besides, there are many men--and some of the best
who get into a habit of not marrying at all, simply because the right woman has not presented
herself at the right time. Perhaps, if women had the open privilege of selection, many a good
fellow would be rescued from miserable isolation, and perhaps also many a noble woman whom
chance, or a stationary position, or the inertia of the other sex, has left to bloom alone,
and waste her sweetness on relations, would be the centre of a charming home, furnishing the
finest spectacle seen in this uphill world --a woman exercising gracious hospitality, and radiating
to a circle far beyond her home the influence of her civilizing personality.