   "I shall (D.V.) leave for Cairo in ten days, and I hope to see you
   soon; but I may have to go to Johannis before I go to Cairo.  I wrote you a letter about my illness and tore it up.  Thank
   God, I am pretty well now, but I have passed the grave once lately,
   and never thought to see Khartoum.

The letter from Li Hung Chang was to him a source of great satisfaction and pleasure, as it
showed his example had affected for good this eastern ambassador, who visited this country
only a very few years ago.

The letter ran thus:--

   TIENTSIN,
   March 22nd, 1879.

   "To His Excellency Colonel C. G. Gordon,
   Khartoum, Egypt.

   "Dear Sir.--I am instructed by his Excellency the Grand Secretary, Li,
   to answer your esteemed favour, dated the 27th October, 1878, from
   Khartoum, which was duly received.

   I wish you all manner of happiness and prosperity.  With my highest
   regards,

   I remain,
   Yours truly,
   LI HUNG CHANG."

In all, and through all these various trying vicissitudes he remained true to his innate religious
convictions, and looked upon it all as the filling in of a plan, which was divine.  His hours
for prayer were maintained with as great a regularity as were those of another eastern official
servant, Daniel, who "three times a day kneeled on his knees and prayed and gave thanks to
God."  Gordon, when at prayer, placed outside his tent a white handkerchief, this was the sign
the Governor was at his devotions, and no servant or messenger must disturb him.  He kept closely
in touch with God, so to speak.  His outer life might be ruffled by storms and tempests, but
within he had the perfect peace.

While Gordon was hoping to get away from the trying climate and yet more trying circumstances
around him, a message (not unexpected) reached him, giving him instructions to proceed to Abyssinia,
and see if he could settle the dispute or misunderstanding that had arisen between Johannis
the King and the Khedive.  He proceeded on that very risky mission as he states in his letters;
the journey was "indescribable in its solitary grandeur.  These interminable deserts, and arid
mountain passes fill the heart with far different thoughts than civilized lands do."  With
few attendants, he writes:--"We are still slowly crawling over the world's crust.  Reaching
the dominions of the King of Abyssinia, we camped near Ras Alonla, and the priests used to
gather at 3 a.m. in knots of two and three and chant for an hour in a wild melodious manner
the Psalms of David.  Awakened at this unearthly hour no one could help being impressed.  Some
of them had children who chanted."  Again he writes:--"We have just passed a famous convent.
The great high priest, who only comes out to meet the King, and who is supposed to be the King's
right hand in religious questions, came out to meet us.  I had some splendid silk brocade,
which I gave him.  He held a gold cross in his hand, and spoke of the love of Christ.  He seemed
to be a deeply religious man."

Father Soho says of Abyssinia:--

   "No country in the world is so full of churches, monasteries, and
   ecclesiastics, as Abyssinia.  It is hardly possible to sing in one
   church, or monastery, without being heard in another, and perhaps by
   several.  They sing the Psalms of David, of which they have a very
   exact translation in their own language.  They begin their concert by
   stamping their feet on the ground, and playing gently on their
   instruments; but when have become warm by degrees, they leave off
   drumming, and fall to leaping, dancing, shouting and clapping hands,
   till their is neither tune nor pause, but rather a religious riot.  For
   this manner of religious worship, they quote the Psalm--"O clap your
   hands, all ye nations."  Gordon says, "I could not but like this poor
   simple-minded peasantry."

Again he writes:--

   "We are about a days march from the river Taczzi, which joins the Nile
   at Berber.  Nearing the Palace, if so I may call it, I was met by the
   King's body guard.  I was of course wearing the Crest and Field
   Marshal's uniform; the soldiers were sitting on their heels and never
   got up.  Passing through them I found my mule so tired that I got down
   and walked.  On arrival at the Palace, I was admitted to the King, who
   sat upon a raised dais, with the Itage, or Chief Priest on the ground
   at his left hand.  Then guns were fired, and the King said, "That is
   in your honour, and you can retire," which I did, to see him again
   shortly.  Again Gordon visited the Royal personage, and was granted
   permission to present his case, but Gordon considered himself unduly
   humbled as he was ordered to stand afar off; a stool at length was
   placed for him to sit upon.  This humble position Gordon would at
   other times have accepted and tolerated, but not here and now; he must
   show his dignity as the representative of a Foreign, powerful monarch;
   he seized the stool and carried it up to near where the King sat, and
   placed it by his side, saying, "Though in your hands I may be a
   prisoner, I am a man as much as you are, and can only meet you as an
   equal."    His sable Majesty was greatly annoyed at Gordon's audacious
   conduct, and remarking said, "Gordon Pasha don't you know I am the
   King, and could kill you if I wished."  "I am perfectly aware of
   that," said Gordon, "Do so at once if it is your Royal pleasure, I am
   ready."  "What," said the King, "Ready to be killed?"  "Certainly,"
   said Gordon, "I am always ready to die, and so far from fearing you
   putting me to death, you would confer a favour on me by so doing, for
   you would be doing for me that which I am precluded by my religious
   convictions from doing for myself.  You would relieve me from all the
   troubles the future may have in store for me."  "Then my power has no
   terror for you, Gordon!"  "None whatever," he replied.  So Gordon
   proved more than a match for this half-civilized Abyssinian King.  His
   visit, however, could not be considered successful as his Majesty was
   unreasonable in all his demands, and so put out of the power of Gordon
   to reach any settlement.  So he left the King without effecting what
   he came to do.  How to get away now was to him a source of anxiety.  As
   he surmised, they were not likely to allow him to carry back the
   valuables he had in his possession.  It required all his tact and wit
   and discretion in this perilous position.  He, however, at the cost of
   about 1,400 pounds in bribes and gifts, managed to get away.  Then he
   had to find his way back alone.  This was a severe ordeal.  Over
   mountains covered with snow, and through defiles of rocky places, now
   meeting with wild hordes of the dog-faced baboons, then with the
   uncivilized tribes of the human species none the less dangerous.  He,
   however, by the care of an ever watchful Providence, had escaped
   serious harm and reached Khartoum in safety."

Gordon had felt for some time uneasy in his position, as the under officials looked upon him
as a religious fanatic, and too strict to govern; they tried to annoy him, and they succeeded:
so he sent in his resignation to the Khedive, and as soon as he could conveniently, he turned
his face homeward.

First of course he visited the Khedive, and he received from him a princely welcome, being
addressed by him in these words: "I am glad to see you Gordon Pasha again amongst us, and have
great pleasure in once more personally acknowledging the loyalty with which you always served
my country, and my government.  I should very much like you to remain in my service, but if
you must retire from us, as you say you must, then I am reluctantly compelled to accept your
resignation.  I regret, my dear Gordon, to lose so valued a counsellor and friend, and the
hearty co-operation of so useful a servant: and in parting from you, I desire to express my
sincere thanks to you; assuring you that my remembrance of you and of your services to this
country will never be forgotten."

Gordon was greatly in need of the rest he now seemed to have secured by his resignation.  His
over sensitive nature could not have borne up much longer; a frame of iron must have gone under
in such circumstances; for on his own individual shoulders he carried each man's burden, causing
him days of anxiety and nights of unrest.  At Alexandria he was examined by Dr. MacKie the
surgeon to the British Consulate, who certified that he was "suffering from symptoms of nervous
exhaustion.  Splendid advice, but would Gordon follow it? Could his active life be suppressed
even for so short a time?  None find it harder to rest than those who need it most.  Gordon
had often thought of what pleasure in rest he would find when his retirement was an accomplished
fact.  He would lie in bed until dinner.  He would take short walks after dinner.  He would
undertake no long journeys, either driving or by railway.  He would not be tempted to go to
dinner parties. He would really have a quiet time; it was, however, only for a short period.

The private secretaryship to Lord Ripon was vacant, and it was offered to Gordon; he accepted
it, but on landing at Bombay he found the position would not be to his liking.  He says of
Lord Ripon, "we parted perfect friends."  After Gordon left Egypt someone there wrote to our
press saying, "The name of Gordon whenever and wherever mentioned sends a thrill of admiration
and love throughout the vast Soudan territory.  For a hand so strong, yet withal so beneficent,
has never before ruled the peoples of this unhappy country."  Gordon left the Soudan peaceful,
prosperous and happy, comparatively.  After his resignation of the position of private secretary
to Lord Ripon, he was invited to visit China again by Mr. Hart, Chinese Commissioner of Customs
at Pekin, who said to Gordon, "I am directed to invite you here (that is to say China). Please
come and see for yourself.  This opportunity for doing really useful work on a large scale
ought not to be lost: work, position, conditions can all be arranged with yourself here to
your satisfaction. Do take six months leave and come."

He applied to our Government for leave of absence on the grounds that he was invited to go
to China.  They asked him to state more particularly what for, and what position he was intending
to fill.  "I am ignorant" was his reply.  This was not considered satisfactory and leave was
refused.  He, however, sent his resignation to the War Office, and proceeded to China.  Reaching
the flowery land, once more he proceeded from Shanghai to Tientsin and there he had an interview
with his old friend and companion in arms, Li Hung Chang.  From him he learned the condition
in which national and political matters stood.  His stay in China was not very prolonged, but
his influence was felt in the Councils of the Empire; and when he left he knew that peace prevailed,
and that the war between Russia and China had been averted.  In the meantime things in the
Soudan began to give trouble, the cloud on the horizon gathered in blackness.  Almost immediately
Gordon left the Soudan the Turkish Pashas began their plundering, robbing and ill-treating
the poor Soudanese so much that we cannot wonder at the rising of the natives in favour of
the Madhi, for the latter was promising them deliverance from this cruel oppression.  The rule
of the Pashas and Bashi-Ba-Zoucks, the Duke of Argyle declared to be "cruel, intolerant, and
unbearable."

Colonel Stewart, in his report, stated that "he believed not one half of the taxes wrung from
these poor people ever found their money go into the treasury of the Khedive."  They were taxed
and levied so unjustly and unmercifully that whole districts were reduced to absolute destitution.
The general rising of the natives against this dire oppression, threw them into the arms of
the Madhi.  He very soon had a most powerful following, and he quickly mobilized an army that
in 1882 was believed to number not less than 200,000 fighting men.  In July of that year this
boastful usurper pushed his forces into conflict with the Egyptians, when the latter were worsted
with terrible loss.  About 6,000 of their bravest men were either killed in battle or left
wounded on the field and the remainder were routed.  Shortly after another great battle followed.
This also went in favour of the usurper, and a loss of 10,000 men inflicted. One engagement
followed another and all went to show that the Madhi had won the sympathy and support of the
masses of the people, and it appeared likely he would soon have undisputed sway over the entire
Soudan.  Still another effort was to be made to hurl back this powerful and persistent foe.
Hicks Pasha, "a brave leader," "a noble general," with an army of 10,000 men, with 6,000 camels,
a large number of pack horses and mules, was sent to arrest the advance of this desperate foe.
For some time no news reached us, as he was shut out from all means of communication with the
outer world.  At length the appalling news came, not only of his defeat, but of his utter destruction.
One man only was known to have escaped to tell the tale.  He states, "We were led by a treacherous
guide into a mountain pass or defile, and there shut in by rocks; we were confronted and surrounded
by probably 100,000 of the enemy.  For three days and nights the battle raged; the few British
officers fought like lions against these overwhelming odds, until, so completely cut up by
sword, bullet and spear, that he feared he was the only man who managed to escape."  This large
army was literally annihilated--1,200 officers perished in this one battle.  The Madhi took
17,000 Remington rifles, 7 Krupp guns, 6 Nordenfelts, 29 brass mounted cannon, and a very large
amount of ammunition.  So that he appeared to be master of the situation. "What next for the
Soudan?" was being everywhere asked in Egypt and in the Soudan.  "Oh that Gordon was here,"
was the cry of many of the poor down-trodden Soudanese.  They believed him to be the only man
who could bring peace to their desolate and unhappy country.

Gordon was at that time taking a quiet rest near Jaffa, in the Holy Land, and making investigations
into places specially spoken of in the Scriptures.  He thought he could locate the place where
Samuel took Agag and hewed him to pieces.  Also the well, called "Jacob's Well," and other
places of interest.  It is said at this juncture, things in the Soudan had become hopeless.
A gentleman sent to one of the papers at Cairo the following message: "Would to God that an
angel would stand at the elbow of Lord Granville in London, and say, And now send men to Joppa,
and call for one Gordon, and he shall tell thee what thou oughtest to do."  Strange to say,
about this time, Gordon was sent for to London, where he had interviews with Lord Hartington,
Secretary of State for War, Lord Granville, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Lord Northbrook,
First Lord of the Admiralty, and Sir Charles Dilke, President of the Local Government Board,
at the War Office, and in a very short space of time, the question, which was destined to have
far reaching results, was settled, and Gordon declared his willingness to go to Khartoum at
the earliest possible date.  Indeed he said, "At once," and to go alone.

Something like the following conversation is said to have taken place between Gordon and one
of his very intimate friends: "Well, General, have you got your kit ready?"  His reply was,
"I have got what I always have: this hat is good enough, so are these clothes, my boots I think
are strong enough."  "And how are you off for cash?"  "Ah! I was nearly forgetting that.  I
had to borrow 25 pounds from the King of the Belgians to bring me home from Palestine; this
I must repay, and I shall of course need a little more for common daily use."  "How much do
you think, two or three thousand pounds?"  "Oh dear no!  One hundred pounds apiece for myself
and Stewart, will be enough; what on earth should we want so much money for."  And so the gallant
general, with his faithful companion--the late lamented Colonel Stewart, started.

We are told they were accompanied to Charing Cross railway station by H. R. H. the Duke of
Cambridge, who took their tickets for them; also by Lord Wolseley (who would insist on carrying
Gordon's portmanteau), Colonel Brackenbury, and Lord Hartington's private secretary, who bade
them good-bye, and God speed on their mission, from which they were never to return.  We think
history will never record a more heroic example of patriotism, than that of this God-fearing
officer, riding forth upon his swift footed camel, with only one English friend and companion,
the Colonel Stewart, and a few Arab attendants, to confront and settle the wild and barbarous
hordes of the Madhi.

One of our papers published the following appropriate lines:--

   "Not with an army at command,
   Not fenced about with guns and swords,
   But trusting to their single hands,
   Amid a host of savage hordes,
   The hero Gordon wends in haste,
   Across the desert's arid waste,
   Beset with perils lies his way,
   Yet fear he knows not: Nelson like,
   His life would be an easy prey,
   If but the Arab dare to strike.
   But over him there hangs a spell,
   The Soudan people know full well:
   Oft he had taught the Eastern mind
   The grace of noble-hearted deeds;
   Oft cast abuses to the wind,
   And succoured men in direst needs;
   Nor shall the charm that all allow
   Is grandly his, forsake him now:
   Oh! should the power of his name
   Bend the false prophet to its thrall
   And make him deem the hero came,
   To pay him just a friendly call,
   The ruthless carnage soon might cease,
   And Egypt be again at peace."

The subject of Gordon's mission came up several times in the British House of Commons as might
be expected.  Sir Stafford Northcote on one occasion said--"There is one point upon which all
our minds are fixed--I mean the mission of General Gordon.  On that point I was anxious to
say little or nothing.  General Gordon is now engaged in an attempt of the most gallant and
dangerous kind.  No one can speak with too much admiration of his courage and self-devotion:
no one can fail, in this country to sympathise with him, and earnestly desire his safety and
success."

Reaching Cairo, Gordon received his plans and instructions from the Khedive, and here we think
arose some of the complications and misunderstandings as to his actual position.  Was he in
the employ of the Khedive, or was he still responsible to the Home Government?  The Khedive
expressed himself to Gordon in a letter dated Jan. 26, 1884.

