And closely connected with this function of controlling the arms trade is another great necessity
of Africa under "tutelage," and that is the necessity of a common collective agreement not
to demoralize the native population. That demoralization, physical and moral, has already gone
far. The whole negro population of Africa is now rotten with diseases introduced by Arabs and
Europeans during the last century, and such African statesmen as Sir Harry Johnston are eloquent
upon the necessity of saving the blacks--and the baser whites--from the effects of trade gin
and similar alluring articles of commerce. Moreover, from Africa there is always something
new in the way of tropical diseases, and presently Africa, if we let it continue to fester
as it festers now, may produce an epidemic that will stand exportation to a temperate climate.
A bacterium that may kill you or me in some novel and disgusting way may even now be developing
in some Congo muck-heap. So here is the need for another Commission to look after the Health
of Africa. That, too, should be of authority over all the area of "tutelage" Africa. It is
no good stamping out infectious disease in Nyasaland while it is being bred in Portuguese East
Africa. And if there is a Disarmament Commission already controlling the importation of arms,
why should not that body also control at the same time the importation of trade gin and similar
delicacies, and direct quarantine and such-like health regulations?

But there is another question in Africa upon which our "ignorant" Labour class is far better
informed than our dear old eighteenth-century upper class which still squats so firmly in our
Foreign and Colonial Offices, and that is the question of forced labour. We cannot tolerate
any possibilities of the enslavement of black Africa. Long ago the United States found out
the impossibility of having slave labour working in the same system with white. To cure that
anomaly cost the United States a long and bloody war. The slave-owner, the exploiter of the
black, becomes a threat and a nuisance to any white democracy. He brings back his loot to corrupt
Press and life at home. What happened in America in the midst of the last century between Federals
and Confederates must not happen again on a larger scale between white Europe and middle Africa.
Slavery in Africa, open or disguised, whether enforced by the lash or brought about by iniquitous
land-stealing, strikes at the home and freedom of every European worker--and Labour knows this.

But how are we to prevent the enslavement and economic exploitation of the blacks if we have
no general watcher of African conditions? We want a common law for Africa, a general Declaration
of Rights, of certain elementary rights, and we want a common authority to which the black
man and the native tribe may appeal for justice. What is the good of trying to elevate the
population of Uganda and to give it a free and hopeful life if some other population close
at hand is competing against the Baganda worker under lash and tax? So here is a third aspect
of our international Commission, as a native protectorate and court of appeal!

There is still a fourth aspect of the African question in which every mother's son in Europe
is closely interested, and that is the trade question. Africa is the great source of many of
the most necessary raw materials upon which our modern comforts and conveniences depend; more
particularly is it the source of cheap fat in the form of palm oil. One of the most powerful
levers in the hands of the Allied democracies at the present time in their struggle against
the imperial brigands of Potsdam is the complete control we have now obtained over these essential
supplies. We can, if we choose, cut off Germany altogether from these vital economic necessities,
if she does not consent to abandon militant imperialism for some more civilized form of government.
We hope that this war will end in that renunciation, and that Germany will re-enter the community
of nations. But whether that is so or not, whether Germany is or is not to be one of the interested
parties in the African solution, the fact remains that it is impossible to contemplate a continuing
struggle for the African raw material supply between the interested Powers. Sooner or later
that means a renewal of war. International trade rivalry is, indeed, only war--smouldering.
We need, and Labour demands, a fair, frank treatment of African trade, and that can only be
done by some overriding regulative power, a Commission which, so far as I can see, might also
be the same Commission as that we have already hypothesized as being necessary to control the
Customs in order to prevent gun-running and the gin trade. That Commission might very conveniently
have a voice in the administration of the great waterways of Africa (which often run through
the possessions of several Powers) and in the regulation of the big railway lines and air routes
that will speedily follow the conclusion of peace.

Now this I take it is the gist of the Labour proposal. This--and no more than this--is what
is intended by the "international control of tropical Africa." I do not read that phrase as
abrogating existing sovereignties in Africa. What is contemplated is a delegation of authority.
Every one should know, though unhappily the badness of our history teaching makes it doubtful
if every one does know, that the Federal Government of the United States of America did not
begin as a sovereign Government, and has now only a very questionable sovereignty. Each State
was sovereign, and each State delegated certain powers to Washington. That was the initial
idea of the union. Only later did the idea of a people of the States as a whole emerge. In
the same way I understand the Labour proposal as meaning that we should delegate to an African
Commission the middle African Customs, the regulation of inter-State trade, inter-State railways
and waterways, quarantine and health generally, and the establishment of a Supreme Court for
middle African affairs. One or two minor matters, such as the preservation of rare animals,
might very well fall under the same authority.

Upon that Commission the interested nations, that is to say--putting them in alphabetical order--the
Africander, the Briton, the Belgian, the Egyptian, the Frenchman, the Italian, the Indian the
Portuguese--might all be represented in proportion to their interest. Whether the German would
come in is really a question for the German to consider; he can come in as a good European,
he cannot come in as an imperialist brigand. Whether, too, any other nations can claim to have
an interest in African affairs, whether the Commission would not be better appointed by a League
of Free Nations than directly by the interested Governments, and a number of other such questions,
need not be considered here. Here we are discussing only the main idea of the Labour proposal.

Now beneath the supervision and restraint of such a delegated Commission I do not see why the
existing administrations of tutelage Africa should not continue. I do not believe that the
Labour proposal contemplates any humiliating cession of European sovereignty. Under that international
Commission the French flag may still wave in Senegal and the British over the protected State
of Uganda. Given a new spirit in Germany I do not see why the German flag should not presently
be restored in German East Africa. But over all, standing for righteousness, patience, fair
play for the black, and the common welfare of mankind would wave a new flag, the Sun of Africa
representing the Central African Commission of the League of Free Nations.

That is my vision of the Labour project. It is something very different, I know, from the nightmare
of an international police of cosmopolitan scoundrels in nondescript uniforms, hastening to
loot and ravish his dear Uganda and his beloved Nigeria, which distresses the crumpled pillow
of Sir Harry Johnston. But if it is not the solution, then it is up to him and his fellow authorities
to tell us what is the solution of the African riddle.

V

GETTING THE LEAGUE IDEA CLEAR IN RELATION TO IMPERIALISM

§ 1

It is idle to pretend that even at the present time the idea of the League of Free Nations
has secure possession of the British mind. There is quite naturally a sustained opposition
to it in all the fastnesses of aggressive imperialism. Such papers as the Times and the Morning
Post remain hostile and obstructive to the expression of international ideas. Most of our elder
statesmen seem to have learnt nothing and forgotten nothing during the years of wildest change
the world has ever known. But in the general mind of the British peoples the movement of opinion
from a narrow imperialism towards internationalism has been wide and swift. And it continues
steadily. One can trace week by week and almost day by day the Americanization of the British
conception of the Allied War Aims. It may be interesting to reproduce here three communications
upon this question made at different times by the present writer to the press. The circumstances
of their publication are significant. The first is in substance identical with a letter which
was sent to the Times late in May, 1917, and rejected as being altogether too revolutionary.
For nowadays the correspondence in the Times has ceased to be an impartial expression of public
opinion. The correspondence of the Times is now apparently selected and edited in accordance
with the views upon public policy held by the acting editor for the day. More and more has
that paper become the organ of a sort of Oxford Imperialism, three or four years behind the
times and very ripe and "expert." The letter is here given as it was finally printed in the
issue of the Daily Chronicle for June 4th, 1917, under the heading, "Wanted a Statement of
Imperial Policy."

Sir,--The time seems to have come for much clearer statements of outlook and intention from
this country than it has hitherto been possible to make. The entry of America into the war
and the banishment of autocracy and aggressive diplomacy from Russia have enormously cleared
the air, and the recent great speech of General Smuts at the Savoy Hotel is probably only the
first of a series of experiments in statement. It is desirable alike to clear our own heads,
to unify our efforts, and to give the nations of the world some assurance and standard for
our national conduct in the future, that we should now define the Idea of our Empire and its
relation to the world outlook much more clearly than has ever hitherto been done. Never before
in the history of mankind has opinion counted for so much and persons and organizations for
so little as in this war. Never before has the need for clear ideas, widely understood and
consistently sustained, been so commandingly vital.

What do we mean by our Empire, and what is its relation to that universal desire of mankind,
the permanent rule of peace and justice in the world? The whole world will be the better for
a very plain answer to that question.

Is it not time for us British not merely to admit to ourselves, but to assure the world that
our Empire as it exists to-day is a provisional thing, that in scarcely any part of the world
do we regard it as more than an emergency arrangement, as a necessary association that must
give place ultimately to the higher synthesis of a world league, that here we hold as trustees
and there on account of strategic considerations that may presently disappear, and that though
we will not contemplate the replacement of our flag anywhere by the flag of any other competing
nation, though we do hope to hold together with our kin and with those who increasingly share
our tradition and our language, nevertheless we are prepared to welcome great renunciations
of our present ascendency and privileges in the interests of mankind as a whole. We need to
make the world understand that we do not put our nation nor our Empire before the commonwealth
of man. Unless presently we are to follow Germany along the tragic path her national vanity
and her world ambitions have made for her, that is what we have to make clear now. It is not
only our duty to mankind, it is also the sane course for our own preservation.

Is it not the plain lesson of this stupendous and disastrous war that there is no way to secure
civilization from destruction except by an impartial control and protection in the interests
of the whole human race, a control representing the best intelligence of mankind, of these
main causes of war.

(1) The politically undeveloped tropics;

(2) Shipping and international trade; and

(3) Small nationalities and all regions in a state of political impotence or confusion?

It is our case against the Germans that in all these three cases they have subordinated every
consideration of justice and the general human welfare to a monstrous national egotism. That
argument has a double edge. At present there is a vigorous campaign in America, Russia, the
neutral countries generally, to represent British patriotism as equally egotistic, and our
purpose in this war as a mere parallel to the German purpose. In the same manner, though perhaps
with less persistency, France and Italy are also caricatured. We are supposed to be grabbing
at Mesopotamia and Palestine, France at Syria; Italy is represented as pursuing a Machiavellian
policy towards the unfortunate Greek republicans, with her eyes on the Greek islands and Greece
in Asia. Is it not time that these base imputations were repudiated clearly and conclusively
by our Alliance? And is it not time that we began to discuss in much more frank and definite
terms than has hitherto been done, the nature of the international arrangement that will be
needed to secure the safety of such liberated populations as those of Palestine, of the Arab
regions of the old Turkish empire, of Armenia, of reunited Poland, and the like?

I do not mean here mere diplomatic discussions and "understandings," I mean such full and plain
statements as will be spread through the whole world and grasped and assimilated by ordinary
people everywhere, statements by which we, as a people, will be prepared to stand or fall.

Almost as urgent is the need for some definite statement about Africa. General Smuts has warned
not only the Empire, but the whole world of the gigantic threat to civilization that lies in
the present division of Africa between various keenly competitive European Powers, any one
of which will be free to misuse the great natural resources at its disposal and to arm millions
of black soldiers for aggression. A mere elimination of Germany from Africa will not solve
that difficulty. What we have to eliminate is not this nation or that, but the system of national
shoving and elbowing, the treatment of Africa as the board for a game of beggar-my-neighbour-and-damn-the-niggers,
in which a few syndicates, masquerading as national interests, snatch a profit to the infinite
loss of all mankind. We want a lowering of barriers and a unification of interests, we want
an international control of these disputed regions, to override nationalist exploitation. The
whole world wants it. It is a chastened and reasonable world we live in to-day, and the time
for white reason and the wide treatment of these problems is now.

Finally, the time is drawing near when the Egyptian and the nations of India will ask us, "Are
things going on for ever here as they go on now, or are we to look for the time when we, too,
like the Africander, the Canadian and the Australian, will be your confessed and equal partners?"
Would it not be wise to answer that question in the affirmative before the voice in which it
is asked grows thick with anger? In Egypt, for example, we are either robbers very like--except
for a certain difference in touch--the Germans in Belgium, or we are honourable trustees. It
is our claim and pride to be honourable trustees. Nothing so becomes a trustee as a cheerful
openness of disposition. Great Britain has to table her world policy. It is a thing overdue.
No doubt we have already a literature of liberal imperialism and a considerable accumulation
of declarations by this statesman or that. But what is needed is a formulation much more representative,
official and permanent than that, something that can be put beside President Wilson's clear
rendering of the American idea. We want all our peoples to understand, and we want all mankind
to understand that our Empire is not a net about the world in which the progress of mankind
is entangled, but a self-conscious political system working side by side with the other democracies
of the earth, preparing the way for, and prepared at last to sacrifice and merge itself in,
the world confederation of free and equal peoples.

§ 2

This letter was presently followed up by an article in the Daily News, entitled "A Reasonable
Man's Peace." This article provoked a considerable controversy in the imperialist press, and
it was reprinted as a pamphlet by a Free Trade organization, which distributed over 200,000
copies. It is particularly interesting to note, in view of what follows it, that it was attacked
with great virulence in the Evening News, the little fierce mud-throwing brother of the Daily Mail.

The international situation at the present time is beyond question the most wonderful that
the world has ever seen. There is not a country in the world in which the great majority of
sensible people are not passionately desirous of peace, of an enduring peace, and--the war
goes on. The conditions of peace can now be stated, in general terms that are as acceptable
to a reasonable man in Berlin as they are to a reasonable man in Paris or London or Petrograd
or Constantinople. There are to be no conquests, no domination of recalcitrant populations,
no bitter insistence upon vindictive penalties, and there must be something in the nature of
a world-wide League of Nations to keep the peace securely in future, to "make the world safe
for democracy," and maintain international justice. To that the general mind of the world has
come to-day.

Why, then, does the waste and killing go on? Why is not the Peace Conference sitting now?

Manifestly because a small minority of people in positions of peculiar advantage, in positions
of trust and authority, and particularly the German reactionaries, prevent or delay its assembling.

The answer which seems to suffice in all the Allied countries is that the German Imperial Government--that
the German Imperial Government alone--stands in the way, that its tradition is incurably a
tradition of conquest and aggression, that until German militarism is overthrown, etc. Few
people in the Allied countries will dispute that that is broadly true. But is it the whole
and complete truth? Is there nothing more to be done on our side? Let us put a question that
goes to the very heart of the problem. Why does the great mass of the German people still cling
to its incurably belligerent Government?

