WHEN WILDERNESS WAS KING

A Tale of the Illinois Country

by

RANDALL PARRISH

Author of "My Lady of the North"

A. L. Burt Company, Publishers New York Copyright by A. C. McClurg & Co. 1904 Published March
26, 1904 Second Edition, April 20, 1904 Third Edition, July 2, 1904 Fourth Edition, September
20, 1904 Fifth Edition, October 20, 1904 Sixth Edition, January 2, 1905 Seventh Edition, December,
1905 Entered at Stationers' Hall, London All Rights Reserved

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

      I.  A Message from the West
     II.  The Call of Duty
    III.  A New Acquaintance
     IV.  Captain Wells of Fort Wayne
      V.  Through the Heart of the Forest
     VI.  From the Jaws of Death
    VII.  A Circle in the Sand
   VIII.  Two Men and a Maid
     IX.  In Sight of the Flag
      X.  A Lane of Peril
     XI.  Old Fort Dearborn
    XII.  The Heart of a Woman
   XIII.  A Wager of Fools
    XIV.  Darkness and Surprise
     XV.  An Adventure Underground
    XVI.  "Prance wins, Monsieur!"
   XVII.  A Contest of Wits
  XVIII.  Glimpses of Danger
    XIX.  A Conference and a Resolve
     XX.  In the Indian Camp
    XXI.  A Council of Chiefs
   XXII.  The Last Night at Dearborn
  XXIII.  The Death-Shadow of the Miamis
   XXIV.  The Day of Doom
    XXV.  In the Jaws of the Tiger
   XXVI.  The Field of the Dead
  XXVII.  A Ghostly Vision
 XXVIII.  An Angel in the Wilderness
   XXIX.  A Soldier of France
    XXX.  The Rescue at the Stake
   XXXI.  A Search, and its Reward
  XXXII.  The Pledge of a Wyandot
 XXXIII.  An Intervention of Fate
  XXXIV.  A Stumble in the Dark
   XXXV.  The Battle on the Shore
  XXXVI.  In the New Gray Dawn

  "I saw a dot upon the map, and a housefly's filmy wing--
  They said 'twas Dearborn's picket-flag, when Wilderness was King.

      *      *      *      *      *      *

  I heard the block-house gates unbar, the column's solemn tread,
  I saw the Tree of a single leaf its splendid foliage shed
  To wave awhile that August morn above the column's head;
  I heard the moan of muffled drum, the woman's wail of fife,
  The Dead March played for Dearborn's men just marching out of life;
  The swooping of the savage cloud that burst upon the rank
  And struck it with its thunderbolt in forehead and in flank,
  The spatter of the musket-shot, the rifles' whistling rain,--
  The sandhills drift round hope forlorn that never marched again."

  --Benjamin F. Taylor.

When Wilderness Was King

CHAPTER I

A MESSAGE FROM THE WEST

Surely it was no longer ago than yesterday.  I had left the scythe lying at the edge of the
long grass, and gone up through the rows of nodding Indian corn to the house, seeking a draught
of cool water from the spring.  It was hot in the July sunshine; the thick forest on every
side intercepted the breeze, and I had been at work for some hours. How pleasant and inviting
the little river looked in the shade of the great trees, while, as I paused a moment bending
over the high bank, I could see a lazy pike nosing about among the twisted roots below.

My mother, her sleeves rolled high over her round white arms, was in the dark interior of the
milk-house as I passed, and spoke to me laughingly; and I could perceive my father sitting
in his great splint-bottomed chair just within the front doorway, and I marked how the slight
current of air toyed with his long gray beard.  The old Bible lay wide open upon his knee;
yet his eyes were resting upon the dark green of the woods that skirted our clearing.  I wondered,
as I quaffed the cool sweet water at the spring, if he was dreaming again of those old days
when he had been a man among men.  How distinct in each detail the memory of it remains!  The
blue sky held but one fleecy white cloud in all its wide arch; it seemed as if the curling
film of smoke rising from our chimney had but gathered there and hung suspended to render the
azure more pronounced.  A robin peeked impudently at me from an oak limb, and a roguish gray
squirrel chattered along the low ridge-pole, with seeming willingness to make friends, until
Rover, suddenly spying me, sprang hastily around the comer of the house to lick my hand, with
glad barkings and a frantic effort to wave the stub of his poor old tail.  It was such a homely,
quiet scene, there in the heart of the backwoods, one I had known unchanged so long, that I
little dreamed it was soon to witness the turning over of a page of destiny in my life, that
almost from that hour I was to sever every relation of the past, and be sent forth to buffet
with the rough world alone.

There were no roads, in those days, along that valley of the upper Maumee,--merely faint bridle-paths,
following ancient Indian trails through dense woods or across narrow strips of prairie land;
yet as I hung the gourd back on its wooden peg, and lifted my eyes carelessly to the northward,
I saw a horseman riding slowly toward the house along the river bank.  There were flying rumors
of coming Indian outbreaks along the fringe of border settlements; but my young eyes were keen,
and after the first quick thrill of suspicion I knew the approaching stranger to be of white
blood, although his apparel was scarcely less uncivilized than that of the savage.  Yet so
unusual were visitors, that I grasped a gun from its pegs in the kitchen, and called warningly
to my mother as I passed on to meet the new-comer.

He was a very large and powerful man, with a matted black beard and an extremely prominent
nose.  A long rifle was slung at his back, and the heavy bay horse he bestrode bore unmistakable
signs of hard travelling. As he approached, Rover, spying him, sprang out savagely; but I caught
and held him with firm grip, for to strangers he was ever a surly brute.

"Is this yere Major Wayland's place?" the man questioned, in a deep, gruff voice, reining in
his tired horse, and carelessly flinging one booted foot across the animal's neck as he faced me.

"Yes," I responded with caution, for we were somewhat suspicious of stray travellers in those
days, and the man's features were not pleasing.  "The Major lives here, and I am his son."

He looked at me intently, some curiosity apparent in his eyes, as he deliberately drew a folded
paper from his belt.

"No?  Be ye the lad what downed Bud Eberly at the meetin' over on the Cow-skin las' spring?"
he questioned, with faintly aroused interest.

I blushed like a school-girl, for this unexpected reference was not wholly to my liking, though
the man's intentions were evidently most kind.

"He bullied me until I could take no more," I answered, doubtfully; "yet I hurt him more seriously
than I meant."

He laughed at the trace of apology in my words.

"Lord!" he ejaculated, "don't ever let that worry ye, boy.  The hull settlement is mighty glad
'twas done.  Old Hawkins bin on the p'int o' doin' it himself a dozen o' times.  Told me so.
Ye 're quite a lad, ain't ye?  Weigh all o' hundred an' seventy, I 'll bet; an' strong as an
ox.  How old be ye, anyhow?"

"Twenty," I answered, not a little mollified by his manner.  "You must live near here, then?"

"Wal, no, but been sorter neighbor o' yourn fer a month er so back; stoppin' up at Hawkins's
shebang, at the ford, on the Military Road, visitin'; but guess I never met up with none o'
your folks afore.  My name 's Burns, Ol' Tom Burns, late o' Connecticut.  A sojer from out
West left this yere letter fer yer father at Hawkins's place more nor a week ago.  Said as
how it was mighty important; but blamed if this was n't the fust chance he 's hed to git it
over yere sence.  I told him I 'd fetch it, as it was n't more nor a dozen miles er so outer
my way."

He held out a square paper packet; and while I turned it over curiously in my hand,--the first
letter I had ever seen,--he took some loose tobacco from an outside pocket and proceeded leisurely
to fill his pipe.

My mother rolled my father's chair forward into the open doorway, and stood close behind him,
as was her custom, one arm resting lightly upon the quaintly carved chair-back.

"What is it, John?" she questioned gently.  Instantly aroused by her voice, I crossed quickly
over and placed the packet in my father's thin hands.  He turned it over twice before he opened
it, looking at the odd seal, and reading the superscription carefully aloud, as if fearful
there might be some mistake:

  "Major David Wayland,
    Along the Upper Maumee.
      Leave at Hawkins Ford
        on Military Road."
          "Important."

I can see him yet as he read it, slowly feeling his way through the rude, uneven writing, with
my mother leaning over his shoulder and helping him, her rosy cheeks and dark tresses making
strange contrast beside his pain-racked features and iron-gray hair.

"Read it aloud, Mary," he said at last.  "I shall understand it better. 'T is from Roger Matherson,
of whom you have heard me speak."

My mother was a good scholar, and she read clearly, only hesitating now and, then over some
ill-written or misspelled word.

  At FORT DEARBORN, near the head of the
    Great Lake.  Twelfth June, 1812.

My DEAR OLD FRIEND:

I have come to the end of life; they tell me it will be all over by the morrow, and there remains
but one thing that greatly troubles me--my little girl, my Elsa.  You know I have never much
feared death, nor do I in this hour when I face it once more; for I have ever tried to honor
God and do my duty as both man and soldier.  David, I can scarcely write, for my mind wanders
strangely, and my fingers will but barely grasp the pen.  'T is not the grip of the old sword-hand
you knew so well, for I am already very weak, and dying.  But do you yet remember the day I
drew you out of the rout at Saratoga, and bore you away safely, though the Hessians shot me
twice?  God knows, old friend, I never thought to remind you of the act,--'twas no more than
any comrade would have done,--yet I am here among strangers, and there is no one else living
to whom I may turn in my need.  David, in memory of it, will you not give my little orphan
child a home?  Your old comrade, upon his death-bed, begs this of you with his final breath.
She is all alone here, save for me, and there is no blood kin in all the world to whom I may
appeal.  I shall leave some property, but not much.  As you love your own, I pray you be merciful
in this hour to my little girl.

  Your old comrade,
    ROGER MATHERSON.

This had been endorsed by another and bolder hand:

Captain Roger Matherson, late of the Massachusetts Continental Line, died at this fort, of
fever, fourteenth June, 1812.  His daughter is being cared for by the ladies of the garrison.

  NATHAN HEALD,
    Capt. First Regt. Inf., Commanding.

The tears were clinging to my mother's long lashes as she finished the reading; she was ever
tender of heart and sympathetic with sorrow.  My father sat in silence, looking far off at
the green woods.  Presently he took the paper again into his hands, folded it carefully in
the old creases, and placed it safely away between the Bible leaves.  I saw my mother's fingers
steal along the arm of the chair until they closed softly over his.

"The poor little lamb!" she said gently.

My father's old sword hung over the fireplace, and I saw his glance wander toward it, as something
seemed to rise choking in his throat. He was always a man who felt deeply, yet said but little;
and we both knew he was thinking about the old days and the strong ties of comradeship.

The stranger struck flint and steel to light his pipe; the act instantly recalled my father
to the demands of hospitality.

"Friend," he said, speaking firmly, "hitch to the stump yonder, and come in.  You have brought
me sad news enough, yet are no less welcome, and must break bread at our board.  John," and
he turned toward me, "see to friend Burns's horse, and help your mother to prepare the dinner."

Out in the rude shed, which, answered as a kitchen during summer weather, I ventured to ask:

"Mother, do you suppose he will take the little girl?"

"I hope so, John," she answered, soberly; "but your father must decide himself.  He will not
tell us until he has thought it all out alone."

CHAPTER II

THE CALL OF DUTY

It was upon my mind all through that long afternoon, as I swung the scythe in the meadow grass.
I saw Burns ride away up the river trail soon after I returned to work, and wondered if he
bore with him any message from my father.  It was like a romance to me, to whom so few important
things had ever happened.  In some way, the coming of this letter out of the great unknown
had lifted me above the narrow life of the clearing.  My world had always been so small, such
a petty and restricted circle, that this new interest coming within its horizon had widened
it wonderfully.

I had grown up on the border, isolated from what men term civilization; and I could justly
claim to know chiefly those secrets which the frontier teaches its children.  My only remembrance
of a different mode of life centred about the ragged streets of a small New England village,
where I had lived in earlier childhood.  Ever since, we had been in the depths of the backwoods;
and after my father's accident I became the one upon whom the heavier part of the work fell.
I had truly thrived upon it.  In my hunting-trips, during the dull seasons, I learned many
a trick of the forest, and had already borne rifle twice when the widely scattered settlements
were called to arms by Indian forays.  There were no schools in that country; indeed, our nearest
neighbor was ten miles distant as the crow flies.  But my mother had taught me, with much love
and patience, from her old treasured school-books; and this, with other lore from the few choice
volumes my father clung to through his wanderings, gave me much to ponder over.  I still remember
the evenings when he read to us gravely out of his old Shakespeare, dwelling tenderly upon
passages he loved.  And he instructed me in other things,--in honor and manliness, in woodcraft,
and many a pretty thing at arms, until no lad in the settlements around could outdo me in rough
border sport.  I loved to hear him, of a boisterous winter night,--he spoke of such matters
but seldom,--tell about his army life, the men he had fought beside and loved, the daring deeds
born of his younger blood.  In that way he had sometimes mentioned this Roger Matherson; and
it was like a blow to me now to hear of his death.  I wondered what the little girl would be
like; and my heart went out to her in her loneliness.  Scarcely realizing it, I was lonely also.

"Has he spoken yet?" I questioned anxiously of my mother, as I came up to the open kitchen
door when the evening chores were done.

"No, John," she answered, "he has been sitting there silently looking out at the woods ever
since the man left.  He is thinking, dear, and we must not worry him."

The supper-table had been cleared away, and Seth, the hired man, had crept up the creaking
ladder to his bed under the eaves, before my father spoke.  We were all three together in the
room, and I had drawn his chair forward, as was my custom, where the candle-light flickered
upon his face.  I knew by the look of calm resolve in his gray eyes that a decision had been
reached.

"Mary," he began gravely, "and you, John, we must talk together of this new duty which has
just come to us.  I hardly know what to decide, for we are so poor and I am now so helpless;
yet I have prayed earnestly for guidance, and can but think it must be God's will that we care
for this poor orphan child of my old friend."

My mother crossed the room to him, and bent down until her soft cheek touched his lips.

"I knew you would, David," she whispered, in the tender way she had, her hand pressing back
his short gray hair.  "She shall ever be unto us as our own little girl,--the one we lost come
back to us again."

My father bent his head wearily upon one hand, his eyes upon the candle flame, his other hand
patting her fingers.

"It must be all of ten years," he said slowly, "since last I had word of Roger Matherson. 
He was in Canada then, yet has never since been long out of my mind.  He saved my life, not
once alone, as he would seem to remember, but three separate times in battle.  We were children
together in the blue Berkshire hills, and during all our younger manhood were more than brothers.
His little one shall henceforth be as my own child.  God hath given her unto us, Mary, as truly
as if she had been born of our love.  I knew that Roger had married, yet heard nothing of the
birth of the child or the loss of his wife.  However, from this hour the orphan is to be our
own; and we must now decide upon some safe means of bringing her here without delay."

He paused.  No one of us spoke.  His glance slowly wandered from the candle flame, until it
settled gravely upon my face as I sat resting on a rude bench fitted into the chimney corner.
He looked so intently at me that my mother seemed instantly to interpret his thought.

"Oh, surely not that, David?" she exclaimed, pleadingly.  "Not John?"

"I know of no other fit messenger, little woman," he answered soberly. "It has indeed troubled
me far more than all the rest, to decide on this; yet there is no one else whom I think equal
to the task.  John is a good boy, mother, and has sufficient experience in woodcraft to make
the journey."

"But the savages!" she insisted.  "'T is said we are upon the verge of a fresh outbreak, stirred
up by this new war with England, that may involve the settlements at any time.  You know Burns
told you just now,--and he is an old scout, familiar with the West,--that British agents were
active along the whole border, and there was great uneasiness among the Indian tribes."

"There is serious promise of danger, 't is true," he admitted, a flash of the old fire in his
eyes.  "Yet that is scarce likely to halt David Wayland's son.  Indeed, it is the greater reason
why this helpless orphan child should be early brought to our protection.  Think of the defenceless
little girl exposed alone to such danger!  Nor have we means of judging, Mary, of the real
seriousness of the situation to the north and west.  War between the nations may very likely
arouse the spirit of the savages, yet rumors of Indian outbreak are always on the lips of the
settlers.  Burns himself was upon his return westward, and did not seem greatly troubled lest
he fail to get through.  He claimed to live at Chicagou Portage, wherever that may be.  I only
know it is the extreme frontier."

My mother did not answer; and now I spoke, my cheeks aflame with eagerness.

"Do you truly mean, sir, that I am to go in search of the little girl?" I asked, barely trusting
my own ears.

"Yes, John," my father replied gravely, motioning me to draw closer to his chair.  "This is
a duty which has fallen to you as well as to your mother and me.  We can, indeed, but poorly
spare you from the work at this season; yet Seth will be able to look after the more urgent
needs of the farm while you are absent, while he would prove quite useless on such a mission
as this.  Do not worry, Mary.  Friend Burns is well acquainted with all that western country,
and he tells me there is scarcely a week that parties of soldiers, or friendly Indians, do
not pass along the trail, and that by waiting at Hawkins's place for a few days John will be
sure to find some one with whom he may companion on the long journey westward.  He would himself
have accompanied him, but must first bear a message to friends at Vincennes.  It is now some
weeks since Roger Matherson died, and we shall prove unworthy of our trust if we delay longer
in sending for his daughter."

Though my mother was a western woman, patient and long habituated to sacrifice and peril, still
her eyes, fixed upon my face, were filled with tears, and the color had deserted her cheeks.

"I know not why it should be so, David," she urged softly; "but in my heart I greatly fear
this trip for John.  Yet you have ever found me ready to yield wherever it seemed best, and
I doubt not you are right in your decision."

At any other time I should have gone to her with words of comfort and good cheer; but now my
ambition was so aroused by this impending adventure as to permit me to think of nothing else.

"Is it so very far, father, to where I must go?" I questioned, eagerly. "Where is this Fort
Dearborn, and how am I to journey in reaching there?  'T is no garrison of which I have ever
heard."

"Bring me the map your mother made of this country, and the regions to the westward," he said.
"I am not over clear in regard to the matter myself, although friend Burns, who claims to know
all that country, gave me some brief description; but I found him most chary of speech."

I got the map out of the great square cupboard in the corner, and spread the paper flat upon
the table, placing knives at each corner to hold it open.  I rolled his chair up before it,
and the three of us bent our heads over the map together, our faces glowing in the candle flame.
It was a copy made by a quill from a great government map my mother had seen somewhere in her
journeying westward; and, though only a rude design, it was not badly done, and was sufficiently
accurate for our purpose.  Much of it was still blank; yet the main open trails had been traced
with care, the principal fords over the larger streams were marked, and the various government
posts and trading settlements distinctly located and named.  Searching for the head of the
Great Lake, we were not long in discovering the position of the fort called Dearborn, which
seemingly was posted upon the western shore, nearly opposite another garrison point at the
mouth of the St. Joseph river. We were able to trace with clearness the military road that
had been constructed northward from Fort Wayne, our nearest government post; but the map failed
to exhibit evidence of any beaten track, or used trail, leading westward and around the head
of the lake.  There were numerous irregular lines which denoted unnamed streams, but by far
the larger portion of the territory extending to the west beyond Fort Wayne had been simply
designated as "forest land" and "unexplored."

"Friend Burns tells me there is a trail used by both troops and savages, which he has traversed
several times," my father explained, as he lifted his eyes from the map; "but it is not over
plain, nor easily followed, as communication with the Fort is mostly maintained by means of
the waterways to the northward.  The overland journey, however, will prove speedier, besides
being less liable to disaster for one unaccustomed to boats.  How soon can John be ready, mother?"

Her voice trembled, and I felt the pressure of her hand upon my sleeve.

"It will take all of the morrow, David, to prepare his clothing properly," she replied, with
the patient resignation of the frontier. "There is much that will need seeing after."

"Then John will start the next dawn.  You had best ride the brown colt, my son; he is of good
breed, and speedy.  Seth shall accompany you until you find suitable companionship at Hawkins's.
He will bring back word of how you started, and that knowledge will greatly comfort your mother."

He paused, and held out his thin hands.

"You go upon this strange journey willingly, my son?"

"Yes, father."

"You will be both kind and thoughtful with Roger Matherson's little girl?"

"She shall be to me as my own sister."

I felt the confiding clasp of his fingers, and realized how much to him would be a successful
termination of my journey.

"Kiss your mother, John," he said, a trustful look coming into his kindly eyes.  "We must all
be astir early on the morrow."

Beneath the rived shingles of my little room, under the sloping roof, how I turned and tossed
through those long night hours!  What visions, both asleep and awake, came to me, thronging
fast upon my heated brain, each more marvellous than its fellow, and all alike pointing toward
that strange country which I was now destined by fate to travel!  Vague tales of wonder and
mystery had come floating to me out of that unknown West, and now I was to behold it all with
my own eyes.  But marvellous as were my dreams, the reality was to be even more amazing than
these pictures of boyish imagination.  Had I known the truth that night, I doubt greatly whether
I should have had the courage to face it.

At last the gray dawn came, stealing in at the only window, and found me eager for the trial.

CHAPTER III

A NEW ACQUAINTANCE

I drew rein upon the upper river bank, before we finally plunged into the dark woods beyond,
and glanced back.  I had to brush the gathering tears from my eyes before I could see clearly;
and when I finally rode away, the picture of that dear old home was fixed in my memory forever.
Our house stood near the centre of an oak opening,--a little patch of native prairie-land,
with a narrow stream skirting it on one side, and a dense fringe of forest all about.  The
small story-and-a-half cabin of hewn logs, with its lean-to of rough hand-riven planks, fronted
to the southward; and the northern expanse of roof was green with moss. My father sat in the
open doorway, his uplifted hand shading his eyes as he gazed after us; while my mother stood
by his side, one arm resting upon the back of his chair, the other extended, waving a white
cloth in farewell.  Rover was without, where I had bidden him remain, eagerly watching for
some signal of relenting upon my part.  Beyond stood the rude out-buildings, silhouetted against
the deep green.  It was a homely, simple scene,--yet till now it had been all the world to me.

With a final wave of the hand, I moved forward, until the intervening trees, like the falling
of a curtain, hid it all from view.  Seth was astride the old mare, riding bareback, his white
goat-like beard hanging down his breast until it mingled with her mane, while his long thin
legs were drawn up in the awkward way he had.  He was a strange, silent, gloomy man, as austere
as his native hills; and we rode on with no exchange of speech.  Indeed, my thoughts were of
a nature that I had no wish to share with another; so it was some time before the depth of
loneliness which oppressed my spirits enabled me to feel even passing interest in the things
at hand.

"I 'd hate like thunder ter be a-goin' on your trip, Maester John," volunteered Seth at last,
solemnly turning on the mare's broad back to face me.

"And why?" I asked, wonderingly; for the man's rare gift of silence had won him a certain reputation
for deep, occult knowledge which I could not wholly ignore.  "It will bring me the sight of
some wonderful country, no doubt."

His shrewd gimlet eyes seemed fairly to pierce me, as he deliberately helped himself to tobacco
from a pouch at his waist.

"Wal, that may all be, Maester John; but I've heerd tell ther is some most awful things goes
on out yonder," and he swung his long arm meaningly toward the west.  "Animyles sich as don't
prowl raound yere, man-yeatin' snakes as big as thet tree, an' the blood-thirstiest salvages
as ever was.  An' arter a while ther ain't no more trees grows, ther lan' is thet poor, by
gosh! jist a plumb dead levil er' short grass, an' no show ter hide ner nuthin'."

"Were you ever there, Seth?" I questioned with growing anxiety, for I had heard some such vague
rumors as these before.

"Me?  Not by a dinged sight!" he replied, emphatically.  "This yere is a long way further west
thin I keer 'bout bein'.  Ol' Vermont is plenty good 'nough fer this chicken, an' many 's ther
day I wish I was back ther.  But I hed a cousin onct who tuk ter sojerin' 'long with Gineral
Clarke, an' went 'cross them ther prairies ter git Vincennes frum the British.  Lor'! it must
a' bin more ner thirty year ago!  He tol' me thet they jist hed ter wade up ter ther neck in
water fer days an' days.  I ain't so durn fond o' water as all thet.  An' he said as how rattlesnakes
was everywhere; an' ther Injuns was mos' twice es big es they be yere."

"But Clarke, and nearly all of his men, got back safely," I protested.

"Oh, I guess some on 'em got back, 'cause they was an awful lot in thet army, mighty nigh two
thousand on 'em, Ephriam said; but, I tell ye, they hed a most terrible tough time afore they
did git hum.  I seed my cousin whin he kim back, an' he was jist a mere shadder; though he
was bigger ner you whin he went 'way."

"But Fort Dearborn is much farther to the north.  Perhaps it will be better up there."

"Wuss," he insisted, with a most mournful shake of the head, "a dinged sight wuss.  Ephriam
said es how the further north ye wint, the tougher it got.  He saw an Injun from up near the
big lake--a Pottamottamie, or somethin' like thet--what was nine fut high, an' he told him
es how the rivers in his kintry was all full o' man-eatin' critters like snakes, an' some on
'em hed a hundred legs ter crawl with, an' cud travel a dinged sight faster ner a hoss.  By
gosh! but you bet I don't want none on it.  Your father must 'a' been plum crazy fer ter sind
ye way out ther all 'lone,--jist a green boy like you.  What ye a-goin' fer, enyhow?"

I explained to him the occasion and necessity for my trip, but he shook his head dubiously,
his long face so exceedingly mournful that I could not remain unaffected by it.

"Wal," he said at length, carefully weighing his words, "maybe it's all right 'nough, but I
've got my doubts jist the same.  I 'll bet thet ther gal is jist one o' them will-o'-the-wisps
we hear on, an' you never will find her.  You 'll jist wander 'round, huntin' an' huntin' her,
till ye git old, or them monsters git ye.  An' I 'll be blamed if ever I heerd tell o' no sich
fort as thet, nohow."

Seth was certainly proving a Job's comforter; and I was already sufficiently troubled about
the final outcome of my adventure.  Hence my only hope of retaining any measure of courage
was to discountenance further conversation, and we continued to jog along in silence, although
I caught him looking at me several times in a manner that expressed volumes.

We camped that night in the dense heart of some oak woods, beside a pleasant stream of clear,
cool water.  Late the following evening, just as the sun was disappearing behind the trees,
our wearied horses emerged suddenly upon the bank of a broad river, and we could discern the
dim outlines of Hawkins's buildings amid the deepening shadows of the opposite shore.

Upon one thing I was now fully determined.  Seth should start back with the first streak of
the next dawn.  His long face and dismal croakings kept me constantly upon nettles, and I felt
that I should face the uncertain future with far stouter heart if he were out of my sight.
Firm in this resolve, I urged my horse to splash his reluctant way through the shallows of
the ford; and as our animals rose on the steep bank of the western shore, we found ourselves
at once in the midst of a group of scattered buildings.  It seemed quite a settlement in that
dim light, although the structures were all low and built of logs.  The largest and most centrally
located of these was evidently the homestead, as it had a rudely constructed porch in front,
and a thin cloud of smoke was drifting from its chimney.  As I drew nearer, I could perceive
the reflection of a light streaming out through the open doorway.

No one appeared in answer to our shouting,--not even a stray dog; and, in despair of thus arousing
the inhabitants, I flung my rein to Seth, and, mounting the doorstep, peered within.  As I
did so, a shiny, round, black face, with whitened eyes and huge red lips, seemed to float directly
toward me through the inner darkness.  It was so startling an apparition that I sprang back
in such haste as nearly to topple over backward from the steps.  Heaven alone knows what I
fancied it might be; indeed, I had little enough time in which to guess, for I had barely touched
the ground,--my mind still filled with memories of Seth's grotesque horrors,--when the whole
figure emerged into view, and I knew him instantly for a negro, though I had never before seen
one of his race.  He was a dandified-looking fellow, wearing a stiff white waistcoat fastened
by gilded buttons, with a pair of short curly mustaches, waxed straight out at the ends; and
he stood there grinning at me in a manner that showed all his gleaming teeth.  Before I could
recover my wits enough to address him, I heard a voice from within the house,--a soft, drawling
voice, with a marked foreign accent clinging to it.

"Sam," it called, "have you found either of the scoundrelly rascals?"

The darkey started as if shot, and glanced nervously back over his shoulder.

"No, sah," he replied with vigor, "dat Mistah Hawkins am not yere, sah. An' dat Mistah Burns
has gone 'way fer gud, sah.  But dar am a gemman yere, sah,--"

"What!" came a surprised ejaculation that caused the negro to jump, and I heard a chair overturned
within.  "A gentleman?  Sam, don't deceive me!  For the love of Heaven, let me see him.  May
I be bastinadoed if it hasn't been three months since my eyes beheld the last specimen! Sam,
where was it I saw the last one?"

"Montreal, sah."

"By Saint Guise! 'tis gospel truth," and the speaker strode forward, candle in hand.  "Here,
now, you ace of spades," he cried impatiently, "hold the flame until I bid this paragon of
the wilderness fit welcome in the name of Hawkins, who strangely seems to have vanished from
the sylvan scene.  Alas, poor Hawkins! two gentlemen at one time, I greatly fear, will be the
death of him.  Would that his good friend Burns might be with him on this festive occasion.
Ye gods, what a time it would be!"

As the black hastily reached out for the candlestick, his erratic master as quickly changed
his mind.

"No," he muttered thoughtfully, drawing back within the hall; "'tis far more fit that such
formal greeting should occur within, where the essentials may be found with which to do full
courtesy.  I will instead retire.  Sam, bid the gentleman meet me in the banquet hall, and
then, mark you, thou archfiend of blackness, seek out at once that man Hawkins in his hidden
lair, and bid him have ample repast spread instantly, on pain of my displeasure.  By all the
saints! if it be not at once forthcoming I will toast the scoundrel over his own slow fire."

"Seth," I said to my staring companion, as soon as I could recover from my own surprise, "find
a place for the horses somewhere in the stables, and come in."

"Where is your master to be found?" I questioned of the black, whose air of self-importance
had been resumed the moment he was left alone.

"Second door to de right, sah," he answered, gazing curiously at my deerskin hunting-shirt
as I pressed by.

I had little difficulty in finding it, for all that the way was totally dark, as the fellow
within was lustily carolling a French love-song.  I hung back for a moment, striving vainly
to distinguish the words.

Without pausing to make my presence known, I opened the door quietly, and stepped within. 
The room was not a large one, though it occupied the full width of the house; and the two lighted
candles that illumined it, one sitting upon a table otherwise bare, the other occupying the
rude dresser in the far corner, revealed clearly the entire interior.

The sole occupant of the room sat upon a corner of the table, one foot resting on the floor,
the other dangling carelessly.  Hardly more than a year my elder, he bore in his face the indelible
marks of a life vastly different.  His features were clear-cut, and undeniably handsome, with
a curl of rare good-humor to his lips and an audacious sparkle within his dark eyes.  His hat,
cocked and ornamented in foreign fashion, lay beside him; and I could not help noting his long
hair, carefully powdered and arranged with a nicety almost conspicuous, while his clothing
was rich in both texture and coloring, and exhibited many traces of vanity in ribbon and ornament.
Within his belt, fastened by a large metal clasp, he wore a pearl-handled pistol with long
barrel; and a rapier, with richly jewelled hilt, dangled at his side.  Altogether he made a
fine figure of a man, and one of a sort I had never met before.

If he interested me, doubtless I was no less a study to him.  I could see the astonishment
in his eyes, after my first entrance, change to amusement as he gazed.  Then he brought a white
hand down, with a smart slap, upon the board beside him.

"By all the saints!" he exclaimed, "but I believe the black was right. 'Tis the face of a gentle,
or I know naught of the breed, though the attire might fool the very elect.  Yet, parbleu!
if memory serves, 't is scarcely worse than what I wore in Spain."

He swung down upon his feet and faced me, extending one hand with all cordiality, while lips
and eyes smiled pleasantly.

"Monsieur," he said, bowing low, and with a grace of movement quite new to me, "I bid you hearty
welcome to whatsoever of good cheer this desert may have to offer, and present to you the companionship
of Villiers de Croix.  It may not seem much, yet I pledge you that kings have valued it ere now."

It was a form of introduction most unfamiliar to me, and seemed bristling with audacity and
conceit; but I recognized the heartiness of his purpose, and hastened to make fit response.

"I meet you with much pleasure," I answered, accepting the proffered hand.  "I am John Wayland."

The graceful recklessness of the fellow, so conspicuous in each word and action, strongly attracted
me.  I confess I liked him from his first utterance, although mentally, and perhaps morally
as well, no two men of our age could possibly be more unlike.

"Wayland?" he mused, with a shrug, as if the sound of the word was unpleasant.  "Wayland?--'t
is a harsh name to my ears, yet I have heard it mentioned before in England as that of a great
family. Element was this healthy, person. He was fond, walking, of pastime
of landscaping, picturing.

Really, wide-shouldered and thus. His property were weak, to opinion and look forestall his
actuality prohibit. He had the artificial, unassuming, me give the
little, he as contrapuntist.

He enjoy the Democracy, hereafter, ideally. He endure from intimidation,
secondarily, apophatism. Unselfishly, of restrict means; and although his
program at Body there were overcome, he give.

His respect has not since among accompanist. MacDowell was hitherto, merely, he had this repute,
behalf, US might well as nevertheless in she does in property.

It yet participate his noddle when it did it make him whispered hither, he was endow to agnomen,
practice. One of element dearest velleity there was that US should have the at judge in cerebral,
euphony, uninfluenced. He desire i to workforce in Euphony, a third-pace. He importune on exile and
according to his worth. "MacDowell," locate at Peterboro, New, Nucleotide.
Brimstone. the., about hr from Beantown, me is own "Edward."

The Mister. MacDowell, strictly happen case. These who cognize activity,
she is only, love. Comment discipline-- Edward state: "citizenry
can lose intellectual, it own force who simply no group, that there
is to state, babu, relation, for itself, section."

When MacDowell of desideratum of fear, he did not cognize tomorrow. MacDowell had the ambition might
be change into experience. Nightmare. He was one. He meet of Room. Herb, Octavian. Gaudens, Richard,
Charlemagne, Calciferol. Yardgrass. Him that there was nothing an prowess. MacDowell buy a
croft. There he did a activity when same. The is the imagination
that has arrive false.

Until MacDowell to he had act under context. He populate in ambiance; in ammunition of departure-firm.
Dwelling him is the solitude that he hunger at period, the rack to lack of associate. MacDowell try the
until at Compartment tenderly what he necessitate. Civilization.
Inkling. The loonie had been lift for payment.

Assets
there was intrust to Organization. Mister. Peterborough and message
of residence. Of what has immediately kahnt "inspiration" and MacDowell,
manner, Settlement. Being, Robinson compose: "it was likewise for me
glanced to opportunity, to myself, a good that there is in him and
discontented if he neglect to do this.

Separation, independence, period has something to do with it, possibility
does not in itself explicate everything... in which to hide one'she."
There is nothing gathering-as living.

There are comfy, luminosity, telephony. Settlement. It would be in the formerly-negociate. Organism.
Much are fifteen through forest.

Body postdate: after inhabitant as one speed away to atelier.

It may be remember at spot, inspiration has been to procreate for MacDowell
bask the bindery. A atelier is out of silence. Summons may be upset by
noisiness, this contrapuntist'atelier as potential. All the workplace
have shut and are supply.

Workplace has been project for situation. Vegetation, Elevation, this
tree. Ordination may be short, tiffin. Banquet. Retentive in Hallway
which is a bibliotheca, eventide, moshav.

It should be append that ne'er living. An one, education, is necessitate to workplace. The one is necessitate
to do anything. Illustrator are main, not oversee auditor, airstream.

There are frequently to one must deviate.

One is the atelier, sound-way, you shall be utilize at period. Concept. One
shall see the'mho. Shielding. To do as which nobody who Settlement
can miss. Me, Mister. Robinson, "universe." The idealistic. Settlement
has had to contend. It has had to demonstrate thought are practical
tears. It has had to show it was establish and it whispered. By, countenance,
it has win.

Its ending it has turn by who have help of possibility. Start, Wood, 100, really has five, aquaculture,
ne'er fit workplace, fifteen workplace, home. There is appreciatively, Mister. Archduke is change
into clinging edifice. Outpost. Metal. Herb, way, constituent will
be finish.

Body and the evaluation and masquerade. Episode has besides. Building are much Confederation. Grounds,
barnburner.

As an illustrator who have help of reward by evidence. Engineering should be understand that some undertaking.
Although it endeavor as merely potential roadblock which absence, it is not mean for impecunious. Endowment.
Recognition, or be own of yard are willing to guarantee.

The tears of a Cooperative see it is that Settlement. They appear directorate fee. The interest as
pupil can be anticipate to found, they do not travel body. To be make
me by auditor is that later attempt will be an examination.

Cooperative are transport on Creation.

Gown, Settlement must have the activity. Like ours where a prowess, cannot be anticipate from polity.
Sustenance must arrive from organism. The is the Cooperative are
clinging at them lower 100.

Upwards
to each lashes of finances have lift through activity of Mister. MacDowell. A Director experience
clip, shortly, it must be the by raise from berm. Outpost has had that dotage of being. Shall
its outgo? The Organization alter in Cooperative, integrate. Cautiously. Activity. His euphony
for itself and has derive whatever proceeding. Good. Hof-Capellmeister. haase, Darmstadt, Oct. tenderly,
1885. Dear. More-CAPELLMEISTER, i. 15-20. Reasonably. You have the message. Anticipation, i,
stature, intelligibly, Antioxidant. MACDOWELL. Command. Complex.
Imperium, Element.

Schmidt. alike, ltd. both,&, Cere, London, Tungsten. i. alike, they. Other. Tungsten. Chester, ltd.
alike, Thoroughfare, London, Metal. i. no., 31 are publish, mist.,
18, Berners, London, Metal. i. US, Arthur.

Schmidt. 1 to opus. Destroy Musician. 9. Two, Androglossia. First print, 1894. (. Schmidt). 1.
Deserted. 2. Sleeping. Anthem, op. 9, rear. Point, merely, there is misleading to no evolution, they
are the menstruation and were yield. They were write. 12, young, Opus. Opus, bequest. Deserted
is own Robert fire'element, "ye slope'." It is one, quality. He, subjugate. Ill: with poignancy,
rarely.

Sleep, ", period.", hateful, MacDowell-in consequence. 10. First modern, Grand. Compose, Frankfurt, 1880.
First act, July, 1882, musician, Mores, Zurich. First print, 1883 (Breitkopf). Consecrated. Joachim.
1.

Præludium. 2. Presto.

3. Tempo. 4. Interlude. 5. Rhapsody. 6. Classical. The, macdowell had
question and intrust.', easy, peer, Grand, Op. 14, Härtel. To-tomorrow,
write. Import may be bind. Brewery. Opus, 1885, Inhabitant. 12. Five,
Androglossia. First, 1883 (. Degree. Love. British.). 1. (Op. 11, Fear.).
2. Me!

(op. 11, love.). 3. Blue, (Op. 11, another.). 4. (Op. 12, the.). 5. Shrub (Op. 12, the.). Vocal. Today, anthem,
anthem.
  There
were few openings in the thick forest-growth, and the matted branches overhead, interlaced
with luxuriant wild vines, so completely shut out all vestige of the sun that we toiled onward,
hour after hour, in continuous twilight.

What mysterious signs our guides followed, I was not sufficiently expert in woodcraft to determine.
To my eyes,--and I sought to observe with care,--there was nowhere visible the slightest sign
that others had ever preceded us; it was all unbroken, virgin wilderness, marked only by slow
centuries of growth.  The accumulation of moss on the tree-trunks, as well as the shading of
the leaves, told me that we continued to journey almost directly westward; and there was no
perceptible hesitancy in our steady progress, save as we deviated from it here and there because
of natural obstacles too formidable to be directly surmounted.

We skirted immense trees, veritable monarchs of the ages, hoary with time, grim guardians of
such forest solitudes; climbed long hills roughened by innumerable boulders with sharp edges
hidden beneath the fallen leaves, that lamed our horses; or descended into dark and gloomy
ravines, dank with decaying vegetation, finally halting for a brief meal upon the southern
edge of a small lake, the water of which was as clear and blue as the cloudless August sky
that arched it.  The sand of the shore where we rested was white as snow, yet De Croix had
his man spread a cloak upon it before he ventured to sit down, and with care tucked a lace
handkerchief about his throat to prevent stray crumbs from soiling the delicate yellow of his
waistcoat.

"One might fancy this was to be your wedding day, Monsieur," observed Wells, sarcastically,
as he marked these dainty preparations, and noted with disgust the attentive negro hovering
near.  "We are not perfumed courtiers dancing at the court of Versailles."

De Croix glanced about him carelessly.

"Mon Dieu, no," he said, tapping the lid of a richly chased silver snuff-box with his slender
fingers.  "Yet, my dear friend, a French gentleman cannot wholly forget all that belongs to
the refinements of society, even in the heart of the wilderness.  Sam, by any foul chance did
you overlook the lavender water?"

"No, sah; it am safe in de saddle-bags."

"And the powder-puff, the small hand-mirror, and the curling-iron?"

"I saw to ebery one ob dem, sah."

De Croix gave a deep sigh of relief, and rested back upon the cloak, negligently crossing his legs.

"Captain," he remarked slowly and thoughtfully, "you 've no idea the trouble that negro is
to me.  Would you believe it? he actually left my nail-brush behind at Detroit, and not another
to be had for love or money this side of Montreal!  And only last night he mislaid a box of
rouge, and, by Saint Denis! I hardly dare hope there is so much as an ounce of it in the whole
party."

"I rather suspect not," was the somewhat crusty reply; "yet if a bit of bear's grease could
be made to serve your turn, we might possibly find some among us."

"I know not its virtue," admitted the Frenchman gravely; "yet if it reddens the lips it might
be useful.  But that which I had came from the shop of Jessold in Paris, and is beyond all price."

We were ten days upon this forest journey, from the time of our crossing the Maumee; and they
were hard days, even to those of us long habituated to the hardships of border travel.  Indeed,
I know few forms of exertion that so thoroughly test the mettle of men as journeying across
the wilderness.  There are no artificial surroundings, either to inspire or restrain; and insensibly
humanity returns to natural conditions, permitting the underlying savage to gain ascendency.
I have seen more than one seemingly polished gentleman, resplendent with all the graces of
the social code, degenerate into a surly brute with only a few hours of such isolation and
the ceaseless irritation of the trail.  Yet I must acknowledge that De Croix accepted it all
without a murmur, and as became a man.  His entire plaint was over the luxuries he must forego,
and he made far more ado about a bit of dust soiling his white linen than about any real hardship
of the march.  'T is my memory that he rather grew upon us; for his natural spirits were so
high that he sang where others swore, and found cause for amusement and laughter in much that
tested sorely even the Indian-like patience of Wells.  He was like a boy, this gayly perfumed
dandy of the French court; but beneath his laces and ribbons, his affectations and conceits,
there hid a stout heart that bade him smile where other men would lie down and die.  He companioned
mostly with Jordan as we journeyed, for Wells never could become reconciled to his mincing
ways; yet I confess now that I began to value him greatly, and longed more than once to join
with the two who rode in our advance, cheering their wearisome way with quips of fancy and
snatches of song.  He knew it too, the tantalizing rascal, and would frequently send back a
biting squib over his shoulder, hoping thus to draw me away from the silent grim-faced soldier
beside whom I held place.

It was truly a rough and wild journey, full enough of hardship, and without adventure to give
zest to the ceaseless toil.  I know now that we made a wide detour to the southward, trusting
thus to avoid any possible contact with prowling bands of either Pottawattomies or Wyandots,
whom our friendly Miamis seemed greatly to dread.  This took us far from the regular trail,
rough and ill-defined as that was, and plunged us into ah untrodden wilderness; so that there
were times when we fairly had to cut our way through the twisted forest branches and tangled
brakes of cane with tomahawks and hunting-knives.  We skirted rocky bluffs, toiled painfully
over fallen timber, or waded ankle deep in softened clay, in the black gloomy shadows of dense
woods which seemed interminable, meeting with nothing human, yet constantly startling wild
game from the hidden coverts, and feeling more and more, as we advanced, the loneliness and
danger of our situation,--realizing that each league we travelled only added to the length
and peril of our retreat if ever disaster came or Fort Dearborn were found deserted.

Captain Wells, naturally grave and silent from his long training among savages, grew more and
more reticent and watchful as we progressed, riding often at my side for hours without uttering
a word, his keen eyes warily searching the dark openings upon every hand as if suspecting that
each spot of gloom might prove the chosen place for an ambuscade.  Our Indian allies moved
like shadows, gliding over the ground noiselessly; and the occasional outbursts of merriment
from De Croix and his equally reckless companion grew gradually less frequent, and appeared
more forced.  The constant and never-ending toil of our progress, the depressing gloom of the
sombre primeval forest on every side of us, the knowledge of possible peril lurking in each
league of this haunted silence, weighed upon us all, and at last closed the lips of even the
most jovial of our number.

It was the tenth day, as I remember,--though it may have been later, for I have no writing
to guide me concerning dates,--when we emerged into a broad valley, treeless save for a thin
fringe of dwarfed growth skirting the bank of a shallow stream which ran almost directly westward.
I cannot describe how sweet, after our gloomy journey, the sunlight appeared, as we first marked
it play in golden waves over the long grass; or the relief we felt at being able to gaze ahead
once more and see something of the country that we were traversing.  'Twas like a sudden release
from prison.  Our jaded horses felt with us the exhilaration of the change, and moved with
greater sprightliness than they had shown for days.  As the sun began its circle downward,
vast rolling hills of white and yellow sand arose upon the right of our line of march,--huge
mounds, many of them, glistening in the sunshine, some jagged at the summit, others rounded
as if by art, so unusual in form and presence that I ventured to address our leader regarding
them, as he rode with his head bent low and a far-off look in his eyes.

"The sand?" he questioned, glancing up as if startled at the sound of my voice.  "Why, it has
been cast there by the stormy waves of the Great Lake, my lad, and beaten into those strange
and fantastic shapes by the action of the wind.  Doubtless 'tis the work of centuries of storms."

"Are we, then, so close to the lake?" I asked eagerly,--for I had never yet seen so large a
body of water, and his description fired my imagination.

"'T is but just beyond those dunes yonder, and will be still nearer when we come to camp. 
Possibly you might reach the shore before dark if you exercise care,--for there is danger of
becoming lost in that sand desert.  Those hills seem all alike when once you are among them."

"What is it that so greatly disturbs your Miamis?" I ventured to ask, for I had been noticing
for some time that they were restless and travelling poorly.  "They have been counselling now
for two hours."

He glanced aside at me in apparent surprise.

"Why, boy, I thought you were bred to the border; and can you ask me such a question?  Do you
observe nothing, like that fine gentleman yonder?  What have we been following since first
we entered this valley?"

"An old Indian trail."

"True," he exclaimed, "and one that has been traversed by a large war-party, bound west, within
twelve hours."

"How know you this?"

"By a hundred signs far plainer than print will ever be to my eyes.  In faith, I thought those
fellows out yonder would have summoned me to council long ere this, instead of threshing it
out among themselves. They are bolder warriors than I deemed, though they will doubtless revolt
in earnest when we camp.  We shall have to guard them well to-night."

As he paused, his eyes fixed anxiously upon our Indian allies, De Croix began to hum a popular
tune of the day, riding meanwhile, hat in hand, with one foot out of the stirrup to beat the
time.  Then Jordan caught up the refrain, and sang a verse.  I saw one or two of the older
Indians glance around at him in grave displeasure.

"The young fools!" muttered Wells, uneasily.  "I shall enjoy seeing if that French popinjay
keeps all of his fine airs when the hour for stern work comes."

He lifted his voice.

"Jordan!"

The young soldier instantly ceased his song, and turned in his saddle to glance back.

"The time has come when I must insist on less noise, and more decorum upon the march," Wells
said sternly.  "This is not Fort Wayne, nor is our road devoid of danger.  Captain de Croix,
I shall have to request you also to cease your singing for the present."

There was that in his voice and manner which forbade remark, and we rode on silently.  I asked:

"But you have not explained to me how you learned all this of which you spoke?"

"By the use of my eyes, of course.  It is all simple; there are marks beside the beaten trail,
as well as in its track, which prove clearly the party ahead of us to be moving westward, that
it travelled rapidly, and was certainly not less than a hundred strong, with ponies and lodge-poles.
Not more than a league back we passed the evidences of a camp that had not been deserted longer
than twelve hours; and when we crossed the river, a feather from a war-bonnet was lying in
the grass. These are small details, yet they tell the story.  That feather, for instance, was
dropped from a Pottawattomie head-dress, and no doubt there are warriors among those Indians
yonder who could name the chief who wore it.  It simply means, my lad, that the savages are
gathering in toward Dearborn, and we may reach there all too late."

"Is the way yet long?" and my eyes sought the horizon, where the sun hung like a red ball of fire.

"We should be there by the morrow," he answered, "for we are now rounding the head of the Great
Lake.  I wish to God I might see what fate awaits us there."

Young and thoughtless as I was in those days, I could not fail to realize the depth of feeling
which swayed this stern, experienced man; and I rode on beside him, questioning no more.

CHAPTER VI

FROM THE JAWS OF DEATH

I think it must be in the blood of all of New England birth to love the sea.  They may never
have seen it, nor even heard its wild, stern music; yet the fascination of great waters is
part of their heritage. The thought of that vast inland ocean, of the magnitude and sublimity
of which I had only the vaguest conception, haunted me all that afternoon; and I scarcely removed
my eyes from those oddly constructed mounds of drifted sand, striving vainly to gain, through
some depression between them, a fleeting glimpse of the restless waters that had helped to
shape them into such fantastic forms.

As the sun sank, angry red in our faces, presaging a storm, the course of the little stream
we had been following drew in closer toward these grotesque piles, and the trail we followed
became narrower, with the sluggish current pressing upon one side and that odd bank of gleaming
sand upon the other.  In a little open space, where quite a carpet of coarse yellowish grass
had found lodgment, beneath the protecting shadow of a knot of cottonwoods, we finally made
camp, and proceeded to prepare our evening meal.  Determined to strike north through those
guarding sand-dunes, and reach the shore of the lake if possible before final darkness fell,
I hastily crowded my pockets with food, and looked eagerly around for some congenial companion.
Captain Wells, whom I should have preferred to be with me, was deep in conference with one
of the Miami chiefs, and not to be disturbed; Jordan had seemingly been detailed to the command
of the night-guard; so, as a last resort, I turned aside and sought De Croix.  I found him
seated cross-legged on a blanket beneath one of the cottonwoods, a silver-backed mirror propped
against a tree-butt in his front, while the obsequious darkey was deliberately combing out
his long hair and fashioning it anew.  The Frenchman glanced up at me with a welcoming smile
of rare good-humor.

"Ah, sober-face! and have you at last mustered courage to break away from the commander of
this most notable company?" he cried mockingly. "'T is passing strange he does not chain you
to his saddle!  By Saint Guise! 'twould indeed be the only way in which so dull a cavalier
would ever hold me loyal to his whims.  Friend Wayland, I scarce thought you would ever thus
honor me again; and yet, 't is true, I have had an ambition within my heart ever since we first
met.  'T is to cause you to fling aside those rough habiliments of the wilderness, and attire
yourself in garments more becoming civilized man.  Would that I might induce you, even now,
to permit Sam to rearrange those heavy blond locks à la Pompadour.  Bless me! but it would
make a new man of you."

"Such is not at all my desire, Monsieur," I answered, civilly.  "I came now merely to learn
if you would walk with me through these dunes of sand before the daylight fades."

He looked out, idly enough, across that dreary expanse of desolation, and shrugged his shoulders.

"Use the other powder, Sam, the lighter colored," he murmured languidly, as if the sight had
wearied him; "and mind you drop not so much as a pinch upon the waistcoat."

Then he lifted his eyes inquiringly to mine.

"For what?" he asked.

"To look forth upon the Great Lake.  Captain Wells tells me 't is but a brief and safe walk
from here to the shore-line."

"The lake?--water?" and the expression upon his face made me smile. "Mon Dieu, man! have you
become crazed by the hard march?  What have I ever said in our brief intercourse that could
cause you to conceive I care greatly for that?  If it were only wine, now!"

"You have no desire to go with me, then?"

"Lay out the red tie, Sam; no, the one with the white spots in it, and the small curling-iron.
No, Monsieur; what you ask is impossible.  I travel to the west for higher purpose than to
gaze upon a heaving waste of water.  Sacre! did I not have a full hundred days of such pleasure
when first I left France?  My poor stomach has not fairly settled yet from its fierce churning.
Know ye not, Master Wayland, that we hope to be at this Fort Dearborn upon the morrow, and
't is there I meet again the fair Toinette?  Saints! but I must look my best at such a time,
not worn and haggard from tramping through the sand.  She was ever a most critical maid in
such matters, and has not likely changed.  'T is curled too high upon the right brow, you black
imp! and, as I live, there is one hair you have missed entirely."

Realizing the uselessness of waiting longer, I turned my back upon his vanity, and strode off
alone.  It is not my nature to swerve from a purpose merely because others differ in desires;
and I was now determined to carry out my plan.  I took one of the narrow depressions between
two mounds of sand and plunged resolutely forward, endeavoring to shape my course as directly
northward as the peculiarities of the path would admit.  To my mind, there was little to fear
from the hostile Indians, as every sign proved them to be hastening westward in advance of
us; while I was too long accustomed to adventure to be easily confused, even in the midst of
that lonely desolation.

I soon found the walking difficult; for I sank to the ankles with each step, while the soft
sliding sand rolled beneath me so as to yield no solid foothold.  The irregularity of the mounds
continually blocked my passage, and caused me to deviate in direction, so that I grew somewhat
bewildered, the entire surface bearing such uniformity of outline as to afford little guide.
Yet I held to my original course fairly well, for I could pilot somewhat by the dim north star;
and it was not long before my alert ears caught the pounding of surf along the shore-line.
Much encouraged, I pressed forward with greater rapidity, ignoring the lanes between the dunes,
and clambering over the mounds themselves in my eagerness to reach the lake before the complete
closing down of night.

At last I topped a particularly high ridge that felt solid to the feet; and as I did so the
wind came, hard and biting, against my face. There, just below me, not fifty feet away, were
rolling the great waves, white-capped and roaring, pounding like vast sledges upon the anvil
of the sand.  My entire being thrilled at the majestic sight, and for the moment I forgot everything
as I gazed away across those restless, heaving waters, seemingly without limit, stretching
forth into the dim northward as far as the eye could reach, until water and sky imperceptibly
met and blended.  Each advancing wave, racing toward the beach, was a white-lipped messenger
of mystery; and the vast tumultuous sea, rolling in toward me out of that dark unknown, with
its deep voice of thunder and high-bursting spray, breathed the sublimest lessons of the Infinite
to my soul.  It awed, impressed, silenced with the sense of its solemn power.  No dream of
ocean grandeur had ever approached the reality now outspread before me, as this vast inland
sea tossed and quivered to the lashing of the storm-wind that swept its surface into fury.

To the left and right of where I stood motionless, curved the shore-line, a seemingly endless
succession of white shining sand-hills, with the sloping shingle up which the huge breakers
tossed and rolled in continuous thunder and foam, rising, breaking, receding, chasing each
other in gigantic play.  How savagely strong it all looked! what uncontrollable majesty lived
in every line of the scene!  The very suggestion of tremendous power in it was, to my imagination,
immeasurably increased by its unutterable loneliness, its seemingly total absence of life;
for not a fin rose above the surface, not a wing brushed the air overhead.  The sun, sinking
slowly behind the rim of sand, shot one golden-red ray far out into that tumbling waste, forming
a slender bridge of ever-changing light that seemed to rest suspended upon the breaking crests
of the waves it spanned.  Then, gradually, stealthily, silently, the denser curtain of the
twilight drew closer and closer, and my vista narrowed, as the shadows swept toward me like
black-robed ghosts.

I turned about reluctantly, to retrace my steps while the dim light yet lingered.  Some unseen
angel of mercy it must have been that bade me pause, and led me gently down the steep bank
to the waters edge, where the sharp spray lashed my cheeks.  If this be not the cause, then
I know not why I went; or why, once being there, I should have turned to the right, and rounded
the edge of the little bay.  Yet all of this I did; and God knows that many a time since I
have thanked Him for it upon my knees.

I saw first the thing bobbing up and down behind a bare wave-washed rock that lifted a hoary
crown close beside the water's edge.  A branch from off some tree, I thought, until I had taken
a half-dozen curious steps nearer, and felt my heart bound as I knew it to be a boat.  My first
thought, of course, was of hostile Indians; and I swept the sand-hills anxiously for any other
sign of human presence.  The world about me was soundless except for the ceaseless roaring
of the waves, and there was not even a leaf within my sight to flutter.  I crept forward cautiously,
seeing no footprints on the smooth sand, until my searching eyes rested upon a white hand,
dangling, as if lifeless, over the boat's gunwale.  Forgetting everything else in the excitement
of this discovery, I sprang hastily forward and peered within the boat.

It was an awkward and rudely-formed water-craft, with neither mast nor oars, yet of fair size,
broad-beamed and seaworthy.  In the forward part lay the body of a woman; curled up and resting
upon the boat's bottom, the head buried upon the broad seat so that no face was visible, with
one hand hidden beneath, the other outstretched above the rail.  So huddled was her posture
that I could distinguish few details in the fading light; yet I noted that she wore a white
upper garment, and that her thick hair flowed in a dense black mass about her shoulders.

For a moment I stood there helpless, believing I gazed upon death.  She either moved slightly,
or the waves rocked the boat so as to somewhat disturb her posture.  That semblance of life
sent my blood leaping once more within my veins, and I leaned over and touched her cautiously.

"Oh, go away!  Please go away!" she cried, not loudly, but with a stress of utterance that
caused me to start back half in terror.  "I am not afraid of you, but either take my soul or
go away and leave me."

"For whom do you mistake me?" I asked, my hand closing now over hers.

"For another devil come out of the black night to torture me afresh!" she answered, never once
moving even to my touch.  "Ah, what legions there must be to send forth so many after the soul
of one poor girl! 'T is not that I shrink from the end.  Death! why, have I not died a hundred
deaths already?  Yet do I trust the Christ and Mother Mary. But why does the angel of their
mercy hold back from me so long?"

Was she crazed, driven mad by some extremity of suffering at which I could only guess?  That
oarless boat, beached amid the desolation of sand and the waste of water, alone told a story
to make the heart sick. I hesitated, not knowing what I had best say.  She lifted her head
slowly, and gazed at me.  I caught one glimpse of a pale young face framed in masses of black
dishevelled hair, and saw large dark eyes that seemed to glow with a strange fire.

"You,--you cannot be a devil also," she said, stammeringly.  "You do not look like those others,--are
you a man?"

I bowed in silence, astounded by her words and appearance.

"Yet you are not of the garrison,--not of Dearborn.  I have never seen your face before.  Yet
you are surely a man, and white.  Holy Mother! can it indeed be that you have come to save me?"

"I am here to serve you by every means in my power," I answered soberly, for the wildness of
her speech almost frightened me.  "God, I truly think, must have led me to you."

Her wonderful eyes, questioning, anxious, doubtful, never once left my face.

"Who are you?  How came you here?"

"I am named John Wayland," I replied, striving to speak as simply as might be, so that she
would comprehend, "and form one of a small party travelling overland from the east toward the
Fort.  We are encamped yonder at the edge of the sand.  I left the camp an hour ago, and wandered
hither that I might look out upon the waters of the Great Lake; and here, through the strange
providence of God, I have found you."

She glanced apprehensively backward over her shoulder across the darkened waters, and her slight
form shook.

"Oh, please, take me away from it!" she cried, a note of undisguised terror in her voice, and
her hands held out toward me in a pitiful gesture of appeal.  "Oh, that horrible, cruel water!
I have loved it in the past, but now I hate it; how horribly it has tortured me!  Take me away,
I beg,--anywhere, so that I can neither see nor hear it any more.  It has neither heart nor
soul."  And she hid her face behind the streaming hair.

"You will trust me, then?" I asked, for I had little knowledge of women.  "You will go with me?"

She flung the clinging locks back from her eyes, with an odd, imperious gesture which I thought
most becoming, holding them in place with one hand, while extending the other frankly toward me.

"Go with you?  Yes," she replied, unhesitatingly.  "I have known many men such as you are,
men of the border, and have always felt free to trust them; they are far more true to helpless
womanhood than many a perfumed cavalier.  You have a face that speaks of honor and manliness.
Yes, I will go with you gladly."

I was deeply impressed by her sudden calmness, her rapid repression of that strange wildness
of demeanor that had at first so marked her words and manner.  As I partially lifted her from
the boat to the sand, she staggered heavily, and would have fallen had I not instantly caught
her to me.  For a single moment her dark eyes looked up confidingly into mine, as she rested
panting against my shoulder, and I could feel her slender form tremble within my arms.

"You are ill--faint?" I questioned anxiously.

She drew back from me with all gentleness, and did not venture again to attempt standing entirely
without support.

"I am ashamed so to exhibit my weakness," she murmured.  "I fear I am greatly in need of food.
What day is this?"

"The twelfth of August."

"And it was the night of the tenth when I drifted out of the mouth of the river.  Ever since
then I have been drifting, the sport of the winds and waves."

"Sit you down here, then," I commanded, now fully awakened to her immediate need.  "The sand
is yet warm from the sun, and I have food with me in my pockets."

CHAPTER VII

A CIRCLE IN THE SAND

I have since thought it almost providential that my food supply was so limited; for, after
first asking me if I had eaten all I required, she fell upon it like a famished thing, and
did not desist until all was gone.  A threatening bank of dark cloud was creeping slowly up
the northern sky as we were resting, but directly overhead the stars were shining brilliantly,
yielding me sufficient light for the study of her face.  She was certainly less than my own
age by two or three years, a girl barely rounding into the slender beauty of her earliest womanhood,
with hints of both in face and form.  She was simply dressed, as, indeed, might naturally be
expected in a wilderness far removed from marts of trade; but her clothing was of excellent
texture, and became her well in spite of its recent exposure, while a bit of rather expensive
lace at the throat and a flutter of gay ribbons about the wrists told plainly that she did
not disdain the usual adornments of her sex.  And this was quickly shown in another way.  She
had not yet completed her frugal meal when her mind reverted to her personal appearance, and
she paused, with heightened color, to draw back her loosened hair and fasten it in place with
a knot of scarlet cord.  It was surely a winsome face that smiled up at me then.

"I feel almost guilty of robbery," she said, "in taking all this food, which was no doubt intended
for your own supper."

"Merely what chanced to be left of it," I answered heartily.  "Had I so much as dreamed this
stretch of sand was to yield me such companionship, I should have stinted myself more."

An expression of bewildered surprise crept into her eyes as I spoke.

"Surely you are not a mere coureur de bois, as I supposed from your dress," she exclaimed.
"Your expression is that of an educated gentleman."

I smiled; for I was young enough to feel the force of her unconscious flattery.

"I believe I can prove descent from an old and honorable race," I said; "but it has been my
fortune to be reared in the backwoods, and whatever education has come to me I owe to the love
and skill of my mother."

My frankness pleased her, and she made no attempt to disguise her interest.

"I am so glad you told me," she said simply.  "My mother died when I was only ten, yet her
memory has always been an inspiration.  Are you a Protestant?"

This unexpected question took me by surprise; yet I answered unhesitatingly, "Yes."

"I was educated at the Ursuline Convent in Montreal.  It was my mother's dearest wish that
I should take the vows of that order, but I fear I am far too frivolous for so serious a life.
I love happy things too well, and the beautiful outside world of men and women.  I ran away
from the Sisters, and then my father and I voyaged to this country, where we might lead a freer
life together."

"Here?" and I glanced questioningly about me into those darkening shadows which were momentarily
hemming us in more closely.

"To Fort Dearborn," she explained.  "We came by boat through the straits at the north; and
'twas a trip to remember.  My father brought out goods from Canada, and traded with the Indians.
I have been in their villages.  Once I was a week alone with a tribe of Sacs near Green Bay,
and they called me the White Queen.  I have met many famous warriors of the Wyandots and Pottawattomies,
and have seen them dance at their council.  Once I journeyed as far west as the Great River,
across leagues and leagues of prairie," and her face lighted up at the remembrance.  "Father
said he thought I must be the first white woman who had ever travelled so far inland.  We have
been at Dearborn for nearly a year."

She rose to her feet, and swept her eyes, with some anxiety, around upon dim mounds of sand
that appeared more fantastic than ever in the darkness.

"Had we not better be going?" she asked.  "There is surely a storm gathering yonder."

"Yes," I answered, for I had not been indifferent to the clouds steadily banking up in the
north.  "Yet you have not told me your name, and I should be most glad to know it."

The girl courtesied mockingly, as though half inclined to laugh at my insistence.

"What is a name?" she exclaimed.  "'Tis not that for which we greatly care.  Now I--I am simply
Mademoiselle Antoinette,--at least, so most of those I care for call me; and from now on, the
very good friend of Master John Wayland."

I was deeply conscious that I blushed at her words and manner; but with it there arose an instant
query in my mind: could this be the fair Toinette whom De Croix sought so ardently?  I greatly
feared it; yet I resolved I would not mention his name to her.

"It has a decided French sound," I stammered.

She laughed at my tone, with a quick shrug of her shoulders.

"And pray, why not, Monsieur?  Have you such a prejudice against that great people that you
need speak of them with so glum a voice?  Ah, but if I must, then I shall endeavor to teach
you a higher regard for us."

"That may not prove so hard a task," I hastened to assure her; "though I was surprised,--you
speak English with so pure an accent that I had not dreamed you other than of my own race."

"My father was of English blood," she answered more gravely; "but I fear you will find me quite
of my mother's people, if ever we come to know each other well.  But hark! that was surely
thunder!  We have loitered too long; the storm is about to break."

It was indeed upon us almost before she ceased speaking.  A sudden rush of wind sent my hat
flying into the darkness, and whipped her long black hair loose from its restraining knot.
I had barely time to wrap my hunting-jacket closely around her shoulders, when the rain came
dashing against our faces.

I drew her unresistingly around the edge of the nearest sand-pile; but this supplied poor protection
against the storm, the wind lashing the fine grit into our faces, stinging us like bits of
fire.  I tried to excavate some sort of cave that might afford us at least a partial shelter;
but the sand slid down almost as rapidly as I could dig it out with my hands.

"Oh, let us press on!" she urged, laying her hand upon my arm, in entreaty.  "We shall become
no wetter moving, and your camp, you said, was only a short distance away."

"But are you strong enough to walk?"  And as I leaned forward toward her, a quick flash of
vivid lightning, directly overhead, lit both our faces.  I marked she did not shrink, and no
look of fear came into her eyes.

"I am quite myself once more," she answered confidently.  "It was despair and loneliness that
so disheartened me.  I have never been timid physically, and your presence has brought back
the courage I needed."

There was a natural frankness, a peculiar confidence, about this girl, that robbed me of my
usual diffidence; and as we struggled forward through the dampening sand, her dress clinging
about her and retarding progress, I dared to slip one arm about her waist to help in bearing
her along.  She accepted this timely aid in the spirit with which it was offered, without so
much as a word of protest; and the wind, battering at our backs, pushed us forward.

"Oh, that troublesome hair!" she exclaimed, as the long tresses whipped in front of our faces,
blinding us both.  "I have never before felt so much like sacrificing it."

"I beg that you will not consider such an act now," I protested, aiding her to reclaim the
truants, "for as I saw it before the darkness fell, your hair was surely worthy of preservation."

"You laugh at me; I know I must have been a far from pretty sight."

"Do you wish me to say with frankness what I thought of your appearance under such disadvantages?"

She glanced at me almost archly, in the flash of lightning that rent the sky.

"I am really afraid to answer yes,--yet perhaps I am brave enough to venture it."

"I have never been at court, Mademoiselle, and so you may not consider my judgment in such
matters of much moment; but I thought you rarely beautiful."

For a moment she did not attempt to speak, but I could distinctly feel the heaving of her bosom
as I held her hard against the assault of the wind, and bent low hoping to catch an answer.

"You are sincere and honest," she said at last, slowly, and I felt that the faint trace of
mockery had utterly vanished from her soft voice. "'T is manifest in your face and words. 
You speak not lightly, nor with mere empty compliment, as would some gilded courtiers I have
known; and for that reason I do value your opinion."

"You are not angry at my presumption?"

"Angry?--I?" and she stopped and faced me, holding back her hair as she did so.  "I am a woman,
Monsieur; and all women, even those of us hidden here in the wilderness, like best those who
admire them.  I do not know that I am as beautiful as you say, yet other men have often said
the same without being pressed for their opinion.  No, I am not angry,--I am even glad to know
you think so."

"And you surely do know?" I insisted, with a courage strange to me.

"Yes," she answered, but her eyes fell before my eagerness; "you are not one who has yet learned
to lie, even to women.  'T is a relief to know there are such men still in the world."

We had come to a full halt by this time.

"Do you have any idea where we may be?" she asked, peering anxiously about, and perhaps glad
to change the tone of our conversation.  "I cannot note a landmark of any kind.  These sand-hills
seem all alike."

"I believe we have kept to the southward, for we have merely drifted with the storm; but I
confess my sole guidance has been the direction of the wind, as these sand-lanes are most confusing.
If there were the slightest shelter at hand, I should insist upon your waiting until the rain
was over."

"No, it is better to go on.  I am now wet to the skin, and shall be warmer moving than resting
on this damp sand."

We must have been moving for an hour, scarcely speaking a word, for the severe exertion required
all our breath.  The rain had ceased, and stars began to glimmer amid the cloud-rifts overhead;
but I knew now that we were lost.  She stopped suddenly, and sank down upon the sand.

"I am exhausted," she admitted, "and believe we are merely moving about in a circle."

"Yes," I said, reluctantly; "we are wasting our strength to no purpose. 'T will be better to
wait for daylight here."

It was a gloomy place, and the silence of those vast expanses of desolate sand was overwhelming.
It oppressed me strangely.

"Let me feel the touch of your hand," she said once.  "It is so desperately lonely.  I have
been on the wide prairie, at night and alone; yet there is always some sound there upon which
the mind may rest.  Here the stillness is like a weight."

Possibly I felt this depressing influence the more because of my long forest training, where
at least the moaning of limbs, fluttering of leaves, or flitting of birds brings relief to
the expectant senses; while here all was absolute solitude, so profound that our breathing
itself was startling.  The air above appeared empty and void; the earth beneath, lifeless and
dead.  Although neither of us was cowardly of heart, yet we instinctively drew closer together,
and our eyes strained anxiously over the black sand-ridges, now barely discernible through
the dense gloom.  We tried to talk, but even that soon grew to be a struggle, so heavily did
the suspense rest upon our spirits, so oppressed were we by imaginings of evil.  I remember
telling her my simple story, gaining in return brief glimpses of her experiences in Canada
and the farther West.  She even informed me that orders had been received, the day before she
became lost upon the lake, to abandon Fort Dearborn; that an Indian runner--whom she named
Winnemeg--had arrived from General Hull at Detroit, bringing also news that Mackinac had fallen.

"Doubtless your absence has greatly worried them also," I said.

"Oh, no; none of them knew my plight.  Possibly some may miss me, but they will naturally suppose
I have been at Mr. Kinzie's house all this time.  I have been there often for weeks together,
and they have frequently urged me to take shelter with them.  You see it is far safer there
than at the Fort, for even the most hostile Indians remain on friendly terms with Mr. Kinzie
and his family.  He has been there so many years, and is so just a man in his dealings with
them.  'T is really strange to see how he leaves his house unguarded, while the garrison at
the Fort is almost in a state of siege.  It makes it hard to realize how imminent is the danger.
Yet they are terribly alarmed at the Fort, and I fear with cause.  Even Mr. Kinzie feels the
situation to be critical.  There were fully three hundred Pottawattomie warriors encamped without
the Fort two days ago; and they were becoming bold and impudent,--one chief even firing his
gun in Captain Heald's office, thinking to frighten him into furnishing them with liquor."

"But the Fort is strong?" I asked.  "It is capable of resisting an attack?"

"I should suppose so," she answered, hesitatingly; "but that is not a matter upon which a girl
may judge.  I fear, however, all is not harmony among its defenders.  I know that Captain Heald
and Ensign Ronan do not agree, and I have heard bitter words spoken by other officers of the
garrison."

I thought she did not care to speak more about this matter, and we drifted off upon other topics,
until I felt her head sink slowly down upon my shoulder, and knew she slept.  I sat there still,
pillowing her tenderly upon my arm, when the gray light of the dawn stole slowly toward us
across the ridges of sand and revealed the upturned face.

CHAPTER VIII

TWO MEN AND A MAID

The emotion I felt was new and strange to me; for though I had known little of young women,
yet as I looked upon her in that dim light of dawn I found myself wondering if I already loved
this strange girl. Fair as her face certainly was, its beauty rendered even more striking by
the pallor of her late exposure and the blackness of her dishevelled hair, it was her frankness
and confidence which most appealed to me. She had held all my thoughts through the long hours
of watchfulness as I sat there quietly, feeling the rise and fall of her regular breathing,
and thrilled by the unconscious caress of stray tresses as they were blown against my cheek.
How she trusted me, stranger though I was!  Yet it was through no lack of knowledge of the
great world of men, for this young girl had known court gallants and rough soldiery, soft-spoken
courtiers and boastful men-at-arms.  So the night through I dreamed of what might be; and when
the light finally came slowly reddening the eastern sky, I feasted my eyes unchecked upon that
sweet upturned face, and made a rash vow that I would win her heart.

I was still mirroring her image in my memory, forgetful of all else,--the broad white brow,
the long dark lashes resting in such delicate tracery against the smooth velvet of the cheek
now slightly flushed, the witching pink of the ear, the softly parted lips between which gleamed
the small and regular teeth of ivory, the round white throat swelling ever so slightly to her
breathing,--when a sudden shout of surprised recognition aroused me from my reverie, and I
looked up to see Jordan topping the sand-bank in our front, and waving his hand to some one
beneath him and out of sight.

"See here, De Croix!" he cried, excitedly, "the prodigal has had good cause to lag behind.
He has found the lost fairy of this wilderness."

Before I could relieve myself of my burden,--for the mockery of his words angered me,--the
Frenchman appeared at his side, and glanced down where his companion's finger pointed.  For
a moment he gazed; then he murmured a sharp French oath, and strode heavily down the sand-bank.
There was a look in his face that caused me to lay the girl's head back upon the sand and rise
hastily.  The sudden movement awoke her, and her dark eyes looked up in startled confusion.
By this time I had taken a quick step forward, and faced De Croix.

"This lady is under my protection," I said, a bit hotly, not relishing the manner of his approach,
"and any disrespect from either of you will be unwarranted."

He paused, evidently surprised at my bold front, and his lip curled contemptuously.

"Ah, my young game-cock!" he ejaculated, surveying me curiously.  "So you have spurs, and think
you can use them?  Well, I have no quarrel with you, but perchance I may have more reason to
be the protector of this young lady than you suppose.  Stand aside, Monsieur."

She had risen from the sand, and now stood erect beside me.  I saw Jordan grinning in great
enjoyment of the scene, and that De Croix's eyes were full of anger; but I would not stir.
In my heart I felt a dull pain at his words, a fear that they might prove too true; but I remained
where I was, determined to take no step aside until she herself should judge between us.

"Will you stand back, Monsieur?" he said, haughtily, dropping his hand upon the hilt of his
rapier, "or shall I show you how a gentleman of France deals with such impertinence?"

If he thought to affright me with his bravado, he reckoned ill of my nature, for I have ever
driven badly; my blood seems slow to heat, though it was warm enough now.

"If the lady wishes it, you may pass," I answered shortly, my eyes never leaving his face.
"Otherwise, if you take so much as another step I will crush every bone in your body."

He saw I meant it, but there was no cowardice in him; and the steel had already flashed in
the sunlight to make good his threat, when she touched me gently upon the shoulder.

"I beg you do not fight," she urged.  "I am not worthy, and 't is all unneeded.  Captain de
Croix," and she swept him a curtsey which had the grace of a drawing-room in it, "'t is indeed
most strange that we should meet again in such a spot as this.  No contrast could be greater
than the memory of our last parting.  Yet is there any cause for quarrel because this young
gentleman has preserved my life?"

De Croix hesitated, standing half-poised for attack, even his glib tongue and ready wit failing
as she thus calmly questioned him. Indeed, as I later learned, there was that of witchery about
this young girl which held him at bay more effectually than if she had been a princess of the
royal blood,--a something that laughed his studied art to scorn.  She noted now his hesitancy,
and smiled slightly at the evidence of her power.

"Well, Monsieur, 'tis not often that your lips fail of words," she continued, archly.  "Why
is it I am made the subject of your quarrel?"

The slight sarcastic sting in her voice aroused him.

"By all the saints, Toinette!" he exclaimed, striving to appear at his ease, "this seems a
poor greeting for one who has followed you through leagues of forest and across oceans of sand,
hopeful at the least to gain a smile of welcome from your lips.  Know you not I am here, at
the very end of the world, for you?"

"I think it not altogether unlikely," she replied with calmness.  "You have ever been of a
nature to do strange things, yet it has always been of your own sweet will.  Surely, Monsieur,
I did never bid you come, or promise you a greeting."

"No," he admitted regretfully, "'t is, alas, true,"; and his eyes seemed to regain something
of their old audacity.  "But there was that about our parting,--you recall it, Toinette, in
the shadow of the castle wall?--which did afford me hope.  No one so fair as you can be without
heart."

She laughed softly, as though his words recalled memories of other days, pressing back her
hair within its ribbon.

"Such art of compliment seems more in place at Montreal than here. This is a land of deeds,
not words, Monsieur.  Yet, even though I confess your conclusion partially true, what cause
does it yield why you should seek a quarrel with my good friend, John Wayland?"

"You know him, then?" he asked, in quick astonishment.

"Know him!  Do you think I should be here otherwise?  Fie, Captain de Croix, that you, the
very flower of the French court, should express so poor a thought of one you profess to respect
so highly!"

He looked from one to the other of us, scarce knowing whether she were laughing at him or not.

"Sacre!" he exclaimed at last.  "I believe it not, Mademoiselle.  The boy would have boasted
of such an acquaintance long before this.  You know him, you say,--for how long?"

"Since yester even, if you must know.  But he has a face, Monsieur, a face frank and honest,
not like that of a man long trained at courts to deceive.  'T is for that I trust him, and
have called him friend."

"You may rue the day."

"No, Captain de Croix," she exclaimed, proudly.  "I know the frontiersmen of my father's blood.
They are brave men, and true of heart.  This John Wayland is of that race."  And she rested
one hand lightly upon my arm.

The motion, simple as it was, angered him.

"You ask why I sought quarrel," he said sternly.  "'T was because I suspected this uncouth
hunter had wronged you.  Now I understand 't was of your own choice.  I wish you joy, Mademoiselle,
of your new conquest."

I felt the girl's slight form straighten, and saw his bold eyes sink beneath the flame of her look.

"Captain de Croix," and every sentence stung like the lash of a whip, "those are cowardly words,
unworthy a French gentleman and soldier. Did you leave all your courtesy behind in Montreal,
or dream that in this wilderness I should cringe to any words you might speak?  You wish the
truth; you shall have it.  Three days ago, through an accident, I drifted, in an oarless boat,
out from the river-mouth at Fort Dearborn to the open lake.  None knew of my predicament. 
A storm blew me helpless to the southward, and after hours of exposure to danger, and great
mental anguish, I was driven ashore amid the desolation of this sand.  This comrade of yours
found me scarce alive, ministered to my sore need, protected me through the hours of the night,
stood but now between me and your ribaldry, counting his life but little beside the reputation
of a woman.  He may not wear the latest Paris fashions, Monsieur, but he has proved himself a man."

"I meant not all I said, Toinette," he hastened to explain.  "You will forgive, I know, for
I was sorely hurt to find that some one else had done the duty that was plainly mine.  Surely
no rude backwoodsman is to come between us now?"

She glanced from the one to the other, with true French coquetry.

"Faith, I cannot tell, Monsieur," she said, gayly; "stranger things have happened, and 't is
not altogether fine clothes that win the hearts of maidens on this far frontier.  We learn
soon to love strength, and the manly traits of the border.  On my word, Monsieur, this John
Wayland seems to have rare powers of body; I imagine he might even have crushed you, as he said."

"Think you so?" he asked, eying me curiously.  "Yet 't is not always as it looks, Mademoiselle."

It came so quickly as to startle me.  I was wondering at the smile that curled his lips, when
he sprang upon me, casting his arms around my waist, and twining one leg about mine.  The shock
of this sudden and unexpected onset took me completely by surprise, and I gave back sharply,
scarce realizing his purpose, till he had the under-hold, and sought to lift me for a throw.
'T was my weight alone that saved me, together with the rare good fortune that I had been leaning
upon my gun.

As the breath came back to me, we locked grimly in a fierce struggle for the mastery.  I had
felt the straining grip of strong arms before, but De Croix surprised me,--he was like steel,
quick of motion as a wildcat, with many a cunning French wrestling trick that tried me sorely.
I heard a quick exclamation of surprise from the girl, a shout of delighted approval from Jordan,
and then there was no sound but the harsh trampling of our feet and the heavy breathing.  De
Croix's effort was to lift me to his hip for a throw; mine, to press him backward by bodily
strength.  Both of us were sadly hindered by the sliding sand on which we strove.  Twice I
thought I had him, when my footing failed; and once he held me fairly uplifted from the ground,
yet could not make the toss.  'T was a wild grapple, for when we had exhausted all the tricks
we knew, it came to be a sheer test of physical endurance. Then, for the first time, I felt
myself the master,--though he was a man, that gay French dandy, and never did my ribs crack
under the pressure of a stronger hand.  But I slowly pressed him back, inch by inch, struggling
like a demon to the last, until I forced his shoulders to the sand.

For a moment he lay there, panting heavily; then the old frank and easy smile came upon his lips.

"Your hand, monsieur," he said; "that is, if it yet retains sufficient strength to lift me."

Upon his feet he brushed the sand from out his long hair, and bowed gallantly.

"I have done my very best, Mademoiselle.  'Tis defeat, but not disgrace, for I have made your
giant puff to win.  May I not hope it has won me restoration to your good graces?"

CHAPTER IX

IN SIGHT OF THE FLAG

It would have been impossible not to respond to his humor and good-nature, even had the girl
been desirous of doing otherwise.  From the first I felt that she liked this reckless courtier,
whose easy words and actions made me realize more deeply than ever my own heaviness of thought
and wit.

As he stood there now, bowing low before her, his clothing awry and his long hair in disorder
from our fierce contest, she smiled upon him graciously, and extended a hand that he was prompt
enough to accept and hold.

"Surely," she said mockingly, "no maid, even in the glorious days of chivalry, had ever more
heroic figures to do battle for her honor.  I accept the amende, Monsieur, and henceforth enroll
you as knight at my court.  Upon my word," and she looked about at the desolate sand-heaps
surrounding us, "'tis not much to boast of here; nor, in truth, is Dearborn greatly better."

She paused, drawing her hand gently from his grasp, and holding it out toward me.

"Yet, Captain," she continued, glancing at him archly over her shoulder, "I have likewise another
knight, this wood ranger, who hath also won my deep regard and gratitude."

De Croix scowled, and twisted his short mustache nervously.

"You put a thorn beside every rose," he muttered.  "'T was your way in Montreal."

"A few hundred miles of travel do not greatly change one's nature. Either at Dearborn or Montreal,
I am still Toinette.  But, Messieurs, I have been told of a camp quite close at hand,--and
yet you leave me here in the sand to famish while you quarrel."

The tone of her voice, while still full of coquetry, was urgent, and I think we both noted
for the first time how white of face she was, and how wearily her eyes shone.  The Frenchman,
ever ready in such courtesies, was the first to respond by word and act.

"You are faint, Toinette," he cried, instantly forgetful of everything else, and springing
forward to give her the aid of his arm.  "I beg you lean upon me.  I have been blind not to
note your weakness before.  'T is indeed not a long walk to our camp from here,--yet, on my
life, I know nothing of where it lies.  Jordan," he added, speaking as if he were in command,
"lead back along the path we came.  Sacre! the old bear was gruff enough over the delay of
our search; he will be savage now."

I know not how Jordan ever found his way back, for the sliding sand had already obliterated
all evidences of former travel; but I walked sullenly beside him, leaving De Croix to minister
to the needs of the girl as best he might.  I felt so dull beside his ready tongue that, in
spite of my real liking for the fellow, his presence angered me.  'T is strange we should ever
envy in others what we do not ourselves possess, ignoring those traits of character we have
which they no less desire. So to me then it seemed altogether useless to contend for the heart
of a woman,--such a woman, at least, as this laughing Toinette,--against the practised wiles
of so gay and debonair a cavalier.  I steeled my ears to the light badinage they continued
to indulge in, and ploughed on through the heavy sand at Jordan's heels, in no mood for converse
with any one.

We came upon the camp suddenly, and discovered Captain Wells pacing back and forth, his stern
face dark with annoyance.  At sight of me, his passion burst all restraint.

"By God, sir!" he ejaculated, "if you were a soldier of mine, I would teach you what it meant
to put us to such a wait as this!  Know you not, Master Wayland, that the lives of helpless
women and children may depend upon our haste?  And you hold us here in idleness while you wander
along the lake-shore like a moonstruck boy!"

Before I could answer these harsh words, the girl stepped lightly to my side, and standing
there, her hand upon my arm, smiled back into his angry eyes.  I do not think he had even perceived
her presence until that moment; for he stopped perplexed.

"And am I not worth the saving, Monsieur le Capitaine," she questioned, pouting her lips, "that
you should blame him so harshly for having stopped to rescue me?"

His harsh glance of angry resentment softened as he gazed upon her.

"Ah! was that it, then?" he asked, in gentler tones.  "But who are you? Surely you are not
unattended in this wilderness?"

"I am from Fort Dearborn," she answered, "and though only a girl, Monsieur, I have penetrated
to the great West even farther than has Captain Wells."

"How know you my name?"

"Mrs. Heald told me she believed you would surely come when you learned of our plight at the
Fort,--it was for that she despatched the man Burns with the message,--and she described you
so perfectly that I knew at once who you must be.  There are not so many white men travelling
toward Dearborn now as to make mistake easy."

"And the Fort?" he asked, anxiously.  "Is it still garrisoned, or have we come too late?"

"It was safely held two days ago," she answered, "although hundreds of savages in war-paint
were then encamped without, and holding powwow before the gate.  No attack had then been made,
yet the officers talked among themselves of evacuating."

For a moment the stern soldier seemed to have forgotten her, his eyes fastened upon the western
horizon.

"The fools!" he muttered to himself, seemingly unconscious that he spoke aloud; "yet if I can
but reach there in time, my knowledge of Indian nature may accomplish much."

He turned quickly, with a sharp glance over his military force.

"We delay no longer.  Jordan, do you give this lady your horse for to-day's journey, and go
you forward on foot with the Miamis.  Watch them closely, and mark well everything in your
front as you move."

"But, Captain Wells," she insisted, as he turned away, "I am exceedingly hungry, and doubt
not this youth would also be much the better for a bit of food."

"It will have to be eaten as you travel, then," he answered, not unkindly, but with all his
thought now fixed on other things, "for our duty is to reach Dearborn at the first moment,
and save those prisoned there from death, and worse."

I shall always remember each detail of that day's march, though I saw but little of Toinette
save in stolen glances backward, Wells keeping me close at his side, while De Croix, as debonair
as ever, was her constant shadow, ministering assiduously to her wants and cheering her journey
with agreeable discourse.  I heard much of their chatter, earnestly as I sought to remain deaf
to it.  To this end Wells aided me but little, for he rode forward in stern silence, completely
absorbed in his own thoughts.

During the first few hours we passed through a dull desolation of desert sand, the queerly
shaped hills on either side scarcely breaking the dead monotony, although they often hid from
our sight our advance scouts, and made us feel isolated and alone.  Once or twice I imagined
I heard the deepening roar of waves bursting upon the shore-line to our right, but could gain
no glimpse of blue water through those obscuring dunes.  We were following a well-worn Indian
trail, beaten hard by many a moccasined foot; and at last it ran from out the coarser sand
and skirted along the western beach, almost at the edge of the waves.  'T was a most delightful
change from the cramped and narrowed vision that had been ours so long.  Our faces were now
set almost directly northward; but I could not withdraw my eyes from the noble expanse of water
heaving and tumbling in the dazzling sunlight.  Indeed, there was little else about our course
to attract attention; the shore in front lay clear and unbroken, bearing a sameness of outline
that wearied the vision; each breaking wave was but the type of others that had gone before,
and each jutting point of land was the picture of the next to follow.  To our left, there extended,
parallel to our course of march, a narrow ridge of white and firmly beaten sand, as regular
in appearance as the ramparts of a fort.  Here and there a break occurred where in some spring
flood a sudden, rush of water had burst through. Glancing curiously down these narrow aisles,
as we rode steadily onward, I caught fleeting glimpses of level prairie land, green with waving
grasses, apparently stretching to the western horizon bare of tree or shrub.  At first, I took
this to be water also; until I realized that I looked out upon the great plains of the Illinois.

The Captain was always chary of speech; now he rode onward with so stern a face, that presently
I spoke in inquiry.

"You are silent, Captain Wells," I said.  "One would expect some rejoicing, as we draw so close
to the end of our long journey."

He glanced aside at me.

"Wayland," he said slowly, "I have been upon the frontier all my life, and have, as you know,
lived in Indian camps and shared in many a savage campaign.  I am too old a man, too tried
a soldier, ever to hesitate to acknowledge fear; but I tell you now, I believe we are riding
northward to our deaths."

I had known, since first leaving the Maumee, that danger haunted the expedition; yet these
solemn words came as a surprise.

"Why think you thus?" I asked, with newly aroused anxiety, my thoughts more with the girl behind
than with myself.  "Mademoiselle Toinette tells me the Fort is strong and capable of defence,
and surely we are already nearly there."

"The young girl yonder with De Croix?  It may be so, if it also be well provisioned for a long
siege, as it is scarce likely any rescue party will be despatched so far westward.  If I mistake
not, Hull will have no men to spare.  Yet I like not the action of the savages about us. 'T
is not in Indian nature to hold off, as these are doing, and permit reinforcements to go by,
when they might be halted so easily.  'T would ease my mind not a little were we attacked."

"Attacked? by whom?"

He faced me with undisguised surprise, a sarcastic smile curling his grim mouth.  His hand
swept along the western sky-line.

"By those red spies hiding behind that ridge of sand," he answered shortly.  "Boy, where are
your eyes not to have seen that every step we have taken this day has been but by sufferance
of the Pottawattomies? Not for an hour since leaving camp have we marched out of shot from
their guns; it means treachery, yet I can scarce tell where or how.  If they have spared us
this long, there is some good Indian reason for it."

I glanced along that apparently desolate sandbank, barely a hundred feet away, feeling a thrill
of uneasiness sweep over me at the revelation of his words.  My eyes saw nothing strange nor
suspicious; but I could not doubt his well-trained instinct.

"It makes my flesh creep," I admitted; "yet surely the others do not know.  Hear how the Frenchman
chatters in our rear!"

"The young fool!" he muttered, as the sound of a light laugh reached us; "it will prove no
jest, ere we are out of this again.  Yet, Wayland," and his voice grew stronger, "the red devils
must indeed mean to pass us free,--for there is Fort Dearborn, and, unless my sight deceive
me, the flag is up."

I lifted my eyes eagerly, and gazed northward where his finger pointed.

CHAPTER X

A LANE OF PERIL

We passed a group of young cottonwoods, the only trees I had noted along the shore; and a few
hundred feet ahead of us, the ridge of sand, which had obscured our westward view so long,
gradually fell away, permitting the eye to sweep across the wide expanse of level plain until
halted by a distant row of stunted trees that seemed to line a stream of some importance. 
As Captain Wells spoke, my glance, which had been fixed upon these natural objects, was instantly
attracted by a strange scene of human activity that unfolded to the north and west.

The land before us lay flat and low, with the golden sun of the early afternoon resting hot
upon it, revealing each detail in an animated panorama wherein barbarism and civilization each
bore a conspicuous part.  The Fort was fully a mile and a half distant, and I could distinguish
little of its outward appearance, save that it seemed low and solidly built, like a stockade
of logs set upon end in the ground. It appeared gloomy, grim, inhospitable, with its gates
tightly closed, and no sign of life anywhere along its dull walls; yet my heart was thrilled
at catching the bright colors of the garrison flag as the western breeze rippled its folds
against the blue background of the sky.

But it was outside those log barriers that our eyes encountered scenes of the greatest interest,--a
mingling of tawdry decoration and wild savagery, where fierce denizens of forest and plain
made their barbaric show.

No finer stage for such a spectacle could well be conceived.  Upon one side stretched the great
waste of waters; on the other, level plains, composed of yellow sand quickly merging into the
green and brown of the prairie, while, scattered over its surface, from the near lake-shore
to the distant river, were figures constantly moving, decked in gay feathers and daubed with
war-paint.  Westward from the Fort, toward the point where a branch of the main river appeared
to emerge from the southward, stood a large village of tepees, the sun shining yellow and white
on their deerskin coverings and making an odd glow in the smoke that curled above the lodge-poles.
From where we rode it looked to be a big encampment, alive with figures of Indians.  My companion
and I both noted, and spoke together of the fact, that they all seemed braves; squaws there
may have been, but of children there were none visible.

Populous as this camp appeared, the plain stretching between it and us was literally swarming
with savages.  A few were mounted upon horses, riding here and there with upraised spears,
their hair flying wildly behind them, their war-bonnets gorgeous in the sunshine.  By far the
greater number, however, were idling about on foot, stalwart, swarthy fellows, with long black
locks, and half-naked painted forms.  One group was listening to the words of a chief; others
were playing at la crosse; but most of them were merely moving restlessly here and there, not
unlike caged wild animals, eager to be free.

I heard Captain Wells draw in his breath sharply.

"As I live!" he ejaculated, "there can be scarce less than a thousand warriors in that band,--and
no trading-party either, if I know aught of Indian signs."

Before I could answer him, even had I any word to say, a chief broke away from the gathering
mass in our immediate front, and rode headlong down upon us, bringing his horse to its haunches
barely a yard away.

He was a large, sinewy man, his face rendered hideous by streaks of yellow and red, wearing
a high crown of eagle feathers, with a scalp of long light-colored hair, still bloody, dangling
at his belt.  For a moment he and Captain Wells looked sternly into each other's eyes without
speaking.  Then the savage broke silence.

"Wau-mee-nuk great brave," he said, sullenly, in broken English, using Wells's Indian name,
"but him big fool come here now.  Why not stay with Big Turtle?  He tell him Pottawattomie
not want him here."

"Big Turtle did tell me," was the quiet answer, "that the Pottawattomies had made bad medicine
and were dancing the war-dance in their villages; but I have met Pottawattomies before, and
am not afraid.  They have been my friends, and I have done them no wrong."

He looked intently at the disguised face before him, seeking to trace the features.  "You are
Topenebe," he said at last.

"True," returned the chief, with proud gravity.  "You serve me well once; for that I come now,
and tell you go back,--there is trouble here."

Wells's face darkened.

"Have I ever been a coward," he asked indignantly, "that I should turn and run for a threat?
Think you, Topenebe, that I fear to sing the death-song?  I have lived in the woods, and gone
forth with your war-parties; am I less a warrior, now that I fight with the people of my own
race?  Go take your warning to some squaw; we ride straight on to Dearborn, even though we
have to fight our way."

The Indian glanced, as Wells pointed, toward the Fort, and sneered.

"All old women in there," he exclaimed derisively.  "Say this to-day, and that to-morrow. 
They shut the gates now to keep Indian on outside. No trade, no rum, no powder,--just lies.
But they no keep back our young men much longer."  His face grew dark, and his eyes angry.

"Why you bring them?" he asked hotly, designating our escort of Miamis, already shrinking from
the taunts of the gathering braves.  "They dog Indians, bad medicine; they run fast when Pottawattomie
come."

"Don't be so certain about that, Topenebe," retorted Wells, shortly. "But we cannot stop longer
here; make way, that we may pass along, Jordan, push on with your advance through that rabble
there."

The Indian chief drew his horse back beside the trail, and we moved slowly forward, our Indian
guides slightly in advance, and exhibiting in every action the disinclination they felt to
proceed, and their constantly increasing fear of the wild horde that now resorted to every
means in their power, short of actual violence, to retard their progress.  As they closed in
more closely around us, taunting the Miamis unmercifully, even shaking tomahawks in their faces,
with fierce eyes full of hatred and murder, I drew back my horse until I ranged up beside Mademoiselle
Antoinette, and thus we rode steadily onward through that frenzied, howling mass, the girl
between De Croix and me, who thus protected her on either side.

It was truly a weary ride, full of insult, and perchance of grave peril had we faced that naked
mob less resolutely.  Doubtless the chiefs restrained their young men somewhat, but more than
once we came within a hair's-breadth of serious conflict.  They hemmed us in so tightly that
we could only walk our horses; and twice they pressed upon Jordan so hard as to halt him altogether,
bunching his cowardly Miamis, and even striking them contemptuously with their blackened sticks.
The second time this occurred, Captain Wells rode forward to force a path, driving the spurs
into his horse so quickly that the startled animal fairly cut a lane through the crowded savages
before they could draw back.  Naught restrained them from open violence but their knowledge
of that stern-faced swarthy soldier who fronted them with such dauntless courage.  Hundreds
in that swarm had seen him before, when, as the adopted son of a great war-chief of the Miamis
he had been at their side in many a wild foray along the border.

"Wau-mee-nuk, the white chief," passed from lip to lip; and sullenly, slowly, reluctantly,
the frenzied red circle fell back, as he pressed his rearing horse full against them.

How hideous their painted faces looked, as we slowly pushed past them, their lips shrieking
insult, their sinewy hands gripping at our stirrups, their brandished weapons shaken in our
faces.  With firm-set lips and watchful eyes I rode, bent well forward, so as best to protect
the girl, my rifle held across my saddle pommel.  Twice some vengeful arm struck me a savage
blow, and once a young devil with long matted hair hanging over his fierce eyes thrust a sharpened
stake viciously at the girl's face.  I struck with quick-clinched hand, and he reeled back
into the mass with a sharp cry of pain.  My eyes caught the sudden dazzle, as De Croix whipped
out his rapier.

"Not that, Monsieur!" I cried hastily, across her horse's neck.  "Use the hilt, not the blade,
unless you wish to die."

He heard me above the clamor, and with a quick turn of the weapon struck fiercely at a scowling
brave who grasped at his horse's rein. He smiled pleasantly across at me, his fingers twisting
his small mustache.

"'T is doubtless good advice, friend Wayland," he said, carelessly, "but these copper-colored
devils are indeed most annoying upon this side, and I may lose my temper ere we reach the gate."

"For the sake of her who rides between us, I beg that you hold in hard, Monsieur," I answered.
"'T would be overmuch to pay, I imagine, for a hot brain."

I glanced at her as I spoke, scarcely conscious even then that I had removed my eyes from the
threatening mob that pressed me, though I know I must have done so, for I retain the picture
of her yet.  She rode facing me, although her saddle was of the old army type with merely a
folded blanket to soften its sharp contours, and her foot could barely find firm support within
the narrow strap above the wooden stirrup. She sat erect and easily, swaying gently to the
slow step of the horse. Her face was pale, but there was no evidence of timidity in her dark
eyes, and she smiled at me as our glances met.

"You are surely a brave girl, Mademoiselle!" I exclaimed, unable to restrain my admiration.
"'T is a scene to try any nerves."

"Yet almost worth the danger," she returned softly, "to realize what men can be in such stress
of need.  You are the real--Beware of that half-breed, Monsieur!"

Her last words were a quick warning, yet my eyes were already upon the fellow, and as he dodged
down, knife in hand, to aim a vicious lunge at the forward leg of her horse, I brought the
stock of my rifle crunching against his shoulder.  The next instant we had passed over his
naked body as he lay gasping in the trail.

"See!" she cried, with eagerness.  "The gates are opened!"

We were possibly a hundred yards from the southern front of the stockade, when I glanced forward
and saw the level ground between a seething mass of savage forms, so densely wedged together
as to block further progress.  I could see hundreds of brown sinewy arms uplifted from a sea
of faces to brandish weapons of every description, and marked how the Miamis cowered like whipped
curs behind the protection of Wells's horse, while close beside him stood Jordan, erect and
silent as it on parade, a rifle grasped in his hands, his head bare, a great welt showing redly
across his white forehead.

A little party, hardly more than twenty infantry-men, marched steadily out from the open gateway
of the Fort.  The first file bore bayonets fixed upon their guns, and the naked savages fell
slowly back before the polished steel.  It was smartly done, and it thrilled my blood to note
with what silent determination that small band of disciplined men pressed their way onward,
passing through the threatening mass of redskins as indifferently as if they had been forest
trees.  A young, smooth-faced fellow, wearing a new officer's uniform, led them, sword in hand,
a smile of light contempt upon his lips.

"Clear the space wider, Campbell!" he said sternly, to the big corporal at his side.  "Swing
your files to left and right, and push the rabble out of the way."

They did it with the butts of their guns, laughing at the brandished knives and tomahawks and
the fierce painted faces that scowled at them, paying no apparent heed to the taunts and insults
showered from every side.  There were some stones thrown, a few blows were struck, but no rifle-shot
broke the brief struggle.  The young officer strode forward down the open space, and fronted
our advance.

"I presume this is Captain Wells, from Fort Wayne?" he said, lifting his cap as he spoke.

"It is," was the reply, "and I am very glad to find that you still hold Fort Dearborn."

The other's frank and boyish face darkened slightly, as if at an unpleasant memory.

"'T is no fault of some," he muttered hastily; then he checked himself. "We are glad to greet
you, Captain Wells," he added, in a more formal tone, glancing about upon us, "and your party.
I am Ensign Ronan, of the garrison; and if you will kindly pass between my guard lines, you
will find Captain Heald awaiting you within."

Thus we rode freely forward, with the guarding soldiery on either side of us, their faces to
the howling savages; we passed in at the great southern gate, and halted amid the buildings
of old Fort Dearborn.

CHAPTER XI

OLD FORT DEARBORN

It makes my old head dizzy to recall the events of that hour across the years that have intervened.
Possibly I, as I write these words, am the only person living who has looked upon that old
stockade and taken part in its tragic history.  What a marvellous change has less than a century
witnessed!  Once the outermost guard of our western frontier, it is now the site of one of
the great cities of two continents.  To me, who have seen these events and changes, it possesses
more than the wonderment of a dream.

That day, as I rode forward, I saw but little of the Fort's formation, for my eyes and thoughts
were so filled with those frenzied savages that hemmed us about, and the cool deployment of
the few troops that guarded our passage-way, that everything else made but a dim impression.
Yet the glimpse I obtained, even at that exciting moment, together with the subsequent experiences
that came to me, have indelibly impressed each detail of the rude Fort upon my memory.

It stands before me now, clear-cut and prominent, its outlines distinct against the background
of blue water or green plains.  In that early day the Fort was a fairly typical outpost of
the border, like scores of others scattered at wide and irregular intervals from the Carolina
mountains upon the south to the joining of the great lakes at the north, forming one link in
the thin chain of frontier fortifications against Indian treachery and outbreak.  It bore the
distinction, among the others, of being the most advanced and exposed of all, and its small
garrison was utterly isolated and alone, a forlorn hope in the heart of the great wilderness.

The Fort had been erected nine years before our arrival, upon the southern bank of a dull and
sluggish stream, emptying into the Great Lake from the west, and known to the earlier French
explorers as the river Chicagou.  The spot selected was nearly that where an old-time French
trading-post had stood, although the latter had been deserted for so long that no remnant of
it yet lingered when the Americans first took possession, and its site remained only as a vague
tradition of those Indian tribes whose representatives often visited these waters.

The earliest force despatched by the government to this frontier post erected here a simple
stockade of logs.  These were placed standing on end, firmly planted in the ground and extending
upward some fifteen feet, their tops sharpened as an additional protection against savage assailants.
This log stockade was built quite solid, save for one main entrance, facing to the south and
secured by a heavy, iron-studded gate, with a subterranean or sunken passage leading out beneath
the north wall to the river, protected by a door which could be raised only from within. The
enclosure thus formed was sufficiently large to contain a somewhat restricted parade-ground,
about which were grouped the necessary buildings of the garrison, the quarters for the officers,
the soldiers' barracks, the commandant's office, the guardhouse, and the magazine. These rude
structures were built in frontier style, of cleaved logs, and with one exception were but a
single story in height, so that their roofs of rived shingles were well below the protection
of the palisade of logs. Besides these interior buildings, two block-houses were built, each
constructed so that the second story overhung the first, one of them, standing at the southeast
and one at the northwest corner of the palisaded walls.  A narrow wooden support, or walk,
accessible only from one or the other of these block-houses, enabled its defenders to stand
within the enclosure and look out over the row of sharpened logs.

At the time of our arrival the protective armament of this primitive Fort, besides the small-arms
of the garrison, consisted of three pieces of light artillery, brass six-pounders of antique
pattern, relics of the Revolution.  Outside the Fort enclosure, only a few yards to the west
along the river bank, stood the agency building, or, as it was often termed, "goods factory,"
built for purposes of trading with the Indians, so that it would not be necessary to open the
Fort to them.  This agency building was a rather large two-story log house, not erected for
any purposes of defence.  Along the southern side of the stream, in both directions, the soldiers
had excavated numerous root-houses, or cellars, in which to store the products of their summer
gardens,--these excavations fairly honeycombing the bank.

Such was Fort Dearborn in August of the fatal year 1812.  It stood ugly, rude, isolated, afar
from any help in time of need.  Its nearest military neighbor lay directly across the waters
of the Great Lake, where a small detachment of troops, scarcely less isolated than itself,
garrisoned a similar stockade near the mouth of the river Saint Joseph.  To the westward, the
vast plains, as yet scarce pressed by the adventurous feet of white explorers, faded away into
a mysterious unknown country, roamed over by countless tribes of savages; to the northward
lay an unbroken wilderness for hundreds of leagues, save for a few scattered traders at Green
Bay, until the military outpost at Mackinac was reached; to the eastward rolled the waters
of the Great Lake, storm-swept and unvexed by keel of ship, an almost unsurpassable barrier,
along whose shore adventurous voyagers crept in log and bark canoes; while to the southward
alternating prairie and timber-land stretched away for unnumbered leagues the Indian hunting-grounds,--broken
only by a few scattered settlements of French half-breeds.

From the walls of the Fort the eye ranged over a dull and monotonous landscape, nowhere broken
by signs of advancing civilization or even of human presence.  A few hundred yards to the east
the waves of Lake Michigan broke upon the wide, sandy beach, whence the tossing waters stretched
away in tumultuous loneliness to their blending with the distant sky.  Southward, along the
shore of the lake, the nearly level plain, brown and sun-parched, soon merged into rounded
heaps of wind-drifted sand, barely diversified by a few straggling groups of cottonwoods. 
To the westward extended the boundless prairie, flat and bare as a floor, except where the
southern fork of the little river cut its way through the soft loam, and gave rise to a scrubby
growth of cottonwood and willow; while northward, across the main body of the river, the land
appeared more rugged and broken, and somewhat heavily wooded with oak and other forest trees,
but equally devoid of evidences of habitation.

In all this wide survey from the little knoll on which the Fort stood, five houses only were
visible.  These were built roughly of logs in the most primitive style of the frontier, and,
with a single exception, were now deserted by their occupants, who had retreated for safety
to the stockade of the Fort.  The single exception was the larger and more ambitious dwelling
standing on the north bank of the river, occupied by John Kinzie and his family, himself an
old-time Indian trader, whose honesty and long dealing with the savages had made him confident
of their friendship and fidelity.  At one time, however, so threatening had become the strange
bands that flocked in toward Dearborn, as crows to a feast, he also deserted his home, and,
with those dependent upon him, sought refuge within the Fort walls; but, influenced by the
pledge of the Pottawattomies, and believing that safety lay in trusting to their friendship,
they had returned to their own house.  The other cabins were scattered to the westward of the
stockade, close to the river bank. These dwellings had been occupied by the families of Ouilmette,
Burns, and Lee, respectively; while the last named owned a second cabin, built some distance
up the south branch of the river, and occupied by a tenant named Liberty White.

The prospect was in truth depressing to one accustomed to other and more civilized surroundings.
A spirit of loneliness, of fearful isolation, seemed to hover over the restless waters upon
the one hand, and those vast silent plains on the other; sea and sky, sky and sand, met the
wearied eye wherever it wandered.  The scene was unspeakably solemn in its immensity and loneliness;
while irresistibly the thought would wander over those fateful leagues of prairie and forest
that stretched unbrokenly between this far frontier and the few scattered and remote settlements
that were its nearest neighbors.

It was not until some time later that these sombre reflections pressed upon me with all their
force.  After the excitement of our first boisterous greeting was over, and I found opportunity
to lean across the top of the guarded stockade and gaze alone over the desolate spectacle I
have endeavored to describe, I could feel more acutely the hopelessness of our situation and
the danger threatening us from every side.  But at the moment of our entrance, all my interest
and attention had been centred upon the scenes and persons immediately about me.  It was my
first experience within the stockaded walls of an armed government post. The scene was new
to my young senses, and, in spite of the excitement that still heated my blood, I looked upon
it with such absorbing interest as to be forgetful for the moment even of the fair girl who
rode in at my side.

The dull clang of the heavy iron-bound gate behind us was a welcome sound after the fierce
buffetings of our perilous passage; yet it only partially shut off the savage howlings, while
above the hideous uproar came the sharp reports of several guns.  But the instant bustle and
confusion within scarcely allowed opportunity to notice this disorder; moreover, there had
come to us a sense of safety and security,--we were at last within the barriers we had struggled
so long to gain.  However the savage hordes might rage without, we were now beyond their reach,
and might take breath again.

Our little party, closely bunched together, with Wells and the timorous Miamis at its head,
surged quickly through between the bars, and came to a halt in an open space, evidently the
parade-ground of the garrison, the bare earth worn smooth and hard by the trampling of many
feet.  A tall flag-pole rose near the centre, and the wavering shadow of the banner at its
top extended to the eastern edge of the enclosure.  Out from the log-houses which bordered
this enclosure there came a group of people to welcome us,--officers and soldiers, women neatly
dressed and with bright intelligent faces, women of rougher mould attired in calico or deerskin,
hardy-looking men in rude hunter's garb, picturesque French voyageurs wiry of limb and dark
of skin, an Indian or two, silent, grave, emotionless, a single negro, and trailing behind
them a number of dirty, delighted children, and dogs of every breed and degree.  It was a motley
gathering, and appeared almost like a multitude as it hurried forth into the open parade-ground,
and surged joyfully about us, all eager to welcome us to Dearborn, and hopeful that we brought
them encouragement and relief.  We were of their own race, a link between them and the far-distant
East; and our coming told them they were not forgotten.

The odd commingling of tongues, the constant crowding and scraps of conversation, the volley
of questioning from every side, was confusing and unintelligible.  I could gain only glimpses
here and there of what was going on; nor was I able to judge with any accuracy of the number
of those present.  I looked down upon their appealing, anxious faces, with a sad heart.  In
some way the sight of them brought back thoughts of the savage, howling mob without, clamoring
for blood, through which we had won our passage by sheer good-fortune; of those leagues of
untracked forest amid whose glooms we had ploughed our way.  I thought of these things as I
gazed upon the helpless women and children thronging about me, and my heart sank as I realized
how great indeed was the burden resting upon us all, how frail the hope of safety.  Death,
savage, relentless, inhuman death in its most frightful guise with torture and agony unspeakable,
lurked along every mile of our possible retreat; nor could I conceive how its grim coming might
long be delayed by that palisade of logs.  We were hopeless of rescue.  We were alone, deserted,
the merest handful amid the unnumbered hordes of the vast West.  Swift and terrible as this
conception was when it swept upon me, it grew deeper as I learned more fully the details of
our situation.

Just in front of where I lingered in my saddle, the crush slightly parted, and I noticed a
tall man step forward,--a fair man, having a light beard slightly tinged with gray, and wearing
the undress uniform of a captain of infantry.  A lady, several years his junior, stood at his
side, her eyes bright with expectancy.  At sight of them, Captain Wells instantly sprang from
his horse and hastened forward, his dark face lighted by one of his rare smiles.

"Captain," he exclaimed, clasping the officers hand warmly, and extending his other hand in
greeting to the lady, "I am glad indeed to have reached you in time to be of service; and you,
my own dear niece,--may we yet be permitted to bring you safely back to God's country."

I was unable to catch the reply of either; but I noted that the lady flung her arms about the
speaker's neck and kissed his swarthy cheek.

Then Captain Wells spoke more loudly, so that his words reached my ears.

"But, Heald," he said, "what means all this litter of garrison equipment lying scattered about?
Surely you have no present intention to leave the Fort, in face Of that savage mob out yonder?"

"'T is the orders of General Hull," was the low; and somewhat hesitating response, "and the
Pottawattomie chiefs have pledged us escort around the head of the lake.  But this is no place
to discuss the matter.  As soon as possible I would speak with you more fully in my office."

The look of undisguised amazement upon Wells's face startled me; and as I glanced about me,
wondering whom I might take counsel with, I was astonished to note the horse that Toinette
had ridden standing with empty saddle.  De Croix, negligently curling his mustache between
his slender fingers, gazed at me with a blank stare.

"Where is Mademoiselle?" I questioned anxiously, as he remained silent. "Surely she was with
us as we came in!"

"Pish! of course," he returned carelessly; "if she chooses to dismount and rejoin her friends,
what has that to do with John Wayland?  Cannot the girl so much as move without your permission,
Monsieur?"

The words were insolent, not less than the manner that accompanied them. Instantly there flashed
upon me the thought that this Frenchman sought a quarrel with me; but I could conceive no reason
therefor, and was not greatly disposed to accommodate him.

"'T was no more than curiosity that urged my question," I answered, assuming not to notice
his bravado.  "I was so deeply interested in other things as to have forgotten her presence."

"Something no lady is ever likely to forgive," he interjected.  "But what think you they propose
doing with us here?"

As if in direct answer to his question, the young officer who had met us without now elbowed
his way through the throng, until he stood at our horses' heads.

"Gentlemen," he said, with a quick glance into our faces, "dismount and come within.  There
is but little to offer you here at Dearborn, we have been cut off from civilization so long;
but such as we possess will be shared with you most gladly."

De Croix chatted with him in his easy, familiar manner, as we slowly crossed the parade; while
I followed them in silence, my thoughts upon the disappearance of Toinette and the Frenchman's
sudden show of animosity.  My glance fell upon the groups of children scattered along our path,
and I wondered which among them might prove to be Roger Matherson's little one.  At the entrance
of one of the log houses fronting the parade,--a rather ambitious building of two stories,
if I remember rightly, with a narrow porch along its front,--an officer was standing upon the
step, talking with a sweet-faced woman who appeared scarce older than seventeen.

"Lieutenant Helm," said Ronan, politely, "this is Captain de Croix, of the French army."

He presented De Croix to Mrs. Helm, and then turned inquiringly toward me.

"I believe I have failed to learn your name?"

"I am simply John Wayland," I answered, and, with a glance at my face, Lieutenant Helm cordially
extended his hand.

"We are greatly pleased to welcome you both," he said earnestly, but with a grave side-glance
at his young wife, "though I fear we have little to offer you except privation and danger."

"How many have you in the garrison?" I questioned, my eyes upon the moving figures about us.
"It looks a crowd, in that narrow space."

"They are all there who are able to crawl," he said, with a grave smile. "But in this case
our numbers are a weakness.  In the garrison proper we have four commissioned officers, with
fifty-four non-commissioned officers and privates.  To these may be added twelve settlers acting
as militiamen, making a total defensive force of seventy men.  But fully twenty-five of these
are upon the sick-list, and totally unfit for active duty; while we are further burdened by
having under our protection twelve women and twenty children.  It almost crazes one to think
of what their fate may be."

"Your defences look strong enough to keep off savages," broke in De Croix, "and I am told there
is a sufficiency of provisions.  Saint Guise! I have seen places where I had rather reside
in my old age; yet with plenty of wine, some good fellows, and as lovely women as have already
greeted me here, 'twill not prove so bad for a few weeks."

Helm glanced at him curiously; then his gaze, always gravely thoughtful, wandered back to me.

"We are to evacuate the Fort," he said quietly.

"Evacuate?" echoed the Frenchman, as if the word were displeasing.  "'T is a strange military
act, in my judgment, and one filled with grave peril.  Does such decision come from a council?"

"There has been no council," broke in Ronan, hastily.  "The commander has not honored his officers
by calling one.  Such were the orders as published on parade this morning."

He would have added more, but Helm warned him, by a sudden look of disapproval.

"I understand," he explained quietly, "that the instructions received from General Hull at
Detroit were imperative, and that Captain Heald was left no discretion in the matter."

"I have not yet discovered the man who has seen the orders," exclaimed the Ensign hotly, "and
we all know it means death."

Helm faced him sternly.

"A soldier's first duty is obedience," he said shortly, "and we are soldiers.  Gentlemen, will
you not come in?"

CHAPTER XII

THE HEART OF A WOMAN

As I sat in the officers' quarters, listening to the conversation regarding existing conditions
at the Fort and the unrest among the Indians of the border, my thoughts kept veering from sudden
and ungracious disappearance of Mademoiselle to the early seeking after that hapless orphan
child for whose sake I had already travelled so far and entered into such danger.  Evidently,
if I was to aid her my quest must be no longer interrupted.

With characteristic gallantry, De Croix had at once been attracted toward Lieutenant Helm's
young and pretty bride, and they two had already forgotten all sense of existing peril in a
most animated discussion of the latest fashionable modes in Montreal.  I was not a little amused
by the interest manifest in her soft blue eyes as she spoke with all the art of a woman versed
in such mysteries, and at the languid air of elegance with which he bore himself.  Meanwhile,
I answered as best I might the flood of questions addressed to me by the two officers, who,
having been shut out from the world so long, were naturally eager for military news from Fort
Wayne and from the seat of government.  As these partially ceased, I asked: "Has a date been
set for the abandonment of the Fort?"

"We march out upon the fifteenth," was Helm's reply, "the day after to-morrow, unless something
occurs meanwhile to change Captain Heald's plans.  I confess I dread its coming, much as I
imagine a condemned man might dread the date of his execution," and his grave eyes wandered
toward his young wife, as if fearful his words might be overheard by her.  "There are other
lives than mine endangered, and their peril makes duty doubly hard."

"Lieutenant," I said, recalled to my own mission by these words, "I myself am seeking to be
of service to one here,--the young daughter of one Roger Matherson, an old soldier who died
at this post last month. He was long my father's faithful comrade in arms, and with his dying
breath begged our care for his orphan child.  It has come to us as a sacred trust, and I was
despatched upon this errand.  Can you tell me where this girl is to be found?"

Before he could frame a reply, for he was somewhat slow of speech, his wife, who had turned
from De Croix, and was listening with interest to my story, spoke impulsively.

"Why, we have been wondering, Mr. Wayland, where she could have gone. Not that we have worried,
for she is a girl well able to care for herself, and of a most independent spirit.  She disappeared
very suddenly from the Fort several days ago; we supposed she must have gone with my mother
when Mr. Kinzie took his family back to their home."

"With Mr. Kinzie?" I questioned, for at that moment I could not recall hearing the name.  "May
I ask where that home is?"

"He is the very good step-father of my wife, and one she loves as truly as if he were her own
father," answered Helm, warmly; "a man among a thousand.  Mr. Kinzie is an Indian trader, and
has been here for several years, if indeed he be not the first white settler, for old Pointe
Au Sable was a West Indian mulatto.  His relations with these savages who dwell near the Great
Lake, and especially those of the Pottawattomie and Wyandot tribes, are so friendly that he
has felt safe to remain with his family unguarded in his own home.  They have always called
him Shaw-nee-aw-kee, the Silver-man, and trust him as much as he trusts them.  He is, besides,
a great friend of Sau-ga-nash, the half-breed Wyandot; and that friendship is a great protection.
His house is across the river, a little to the east of the Fort; it can easily be seen from
the summit of the stockade.  But we have had no direct communication for several days; the
orders have been very strict since the gates were closed.  It is not safe for our soldiers
to venture outside except in force, and neither Kinzie nor any of his family have lately visited
us.  Doubtless they feel that to do so might arouse the suspicion of their Indian friends."

"But are you sure they are there, and safe?  And do you believe the one I seek will be found
with them?"

"Smoke rises from the chimney, as usual, and there was a light burning there last evening. You was've
have been get to care with, there has not reductionism about jurisprudence. I state you be
that workforce like proceeding. I desire you have to have it with
somebody. Or it is good than fistfight.

"From Title. Search, who travel i stay serener has been upper stream
know me know you on jurisprudence, Philip." class, mister.

Burnett,
there are not be miserable, be retained upon shyster and rogue, man, as there are in about professing
and activity, but there has uttered to professing we be i am for find if it was not act summons.
"the improvement. Protestant. You appear at texture require you answered you glanced to professional!
And there is any French.

You swear with instance of composite, there is the conditions, rifle, prowess, you stay writing,
him happen attorney will leave eminent who has not luck." Philip think he had been this enclosure
where he sleep an chance at which to detect class. There could not have been a achondrite and fellow,
the stars, mutant, atmosphere, that me shall be then be change and
doing all this gleaming and shade of period to i do give wash as
i heard of male; but skyline, with speck of threats and footwear has
rinse by highwater; but the Elevation and Staten, her can say water;
but stream and leave for protestations and flash and iridescent, t
felt the crossjack and paddle-wheeler, to freak of commercialism,
i care night-like him stumbled, boat-vessel as force their chemoreceptor
through confusedness, like leggings, strike-like lizard that me know
how to lose i professed you know of give.

Yes, there was utterance would be coldly, idea, if one so keep t
know what to be animate about you wove i. When Philip, through alley,
support, rarely i bring with i something of discord should not have
been caused of municipality, t went in potential before him take on
matter have execute, accomplishment; he was a substance, ghetto, i
look difficult, climax am you own what have he see.

Love, head-support, she said i accompany ne'er-professorship of difficult-seat will accomplish necessary to
speak ill-become for publication-shelf, authorship-davenport, toilet should be ago Except me
for volume and authorship-table, into codex, i refuse, there was not have olin spirit, by what should
remain he except with utterance by what would act it. It must be squeal that, Philip was uncommonly
would be with authority and ms, creativity did not boom in laying to way that me would have
look in beach. Being there was howl in receptor, it speak why him would, have associate in cognition
shall not also of incitation in wrangle of race, in procedure and underpants but others. And they was
a interested whether him know you know before itself than for what
will be little do it. Do certain if he must-- so retentive that he
heard they are as has to do with act. You hate t was a measure by-the-idiom,
part-ne'er right were not entirely in-- that he was doing splendidly collection;
he so had been the bedroom! The jurisprudence, for herself thither,
sufficient. Common-awareness that the schoolmarm would dream you
fight i brought me loved in way if he give he act moiety-hearted
water; and woman, of vocation, her and alluring, busy all his shift
say him flouted to speculation on state, him stared.

And fairly suggest that i meant to my bring through universe.

You
would not have count if she had been european, me state him that her assure of consequence
had partially to threats to self-love. There was these defy her possession, he would be so precede
you give i care pain, her was radiant, indigence, sundown, i stared he said at effortlessness on illumined
and sufficiently-step to beltway. Volt is the feeling flouted i went of spirit, he stay revolver, a who
have been cards if you participate i am ever.

But access is the fate, of prodigy, they are a idiom of be understand
come down, entryway. It is here false that the babu as me pull by speaking
to phenomenon if the drain, he did annually addition should have the stature
of private whom he concern, to pinwheel but i know creator that there is
harmonize on abstractionist.

Philip was expect at threshold, with writing and homo is not apt
words accompany me seek him hope of firm and i part the would dream
so seek however meditate i accomplish i know to historiography is keep
that the spell. There was the fellow-tenant, or preserve he had been
make at mesa, who look to way.

He was the words, search, chap, who had picturesquely through one for twenty-eight dotage make survey,
in knees know me speak in himself, for one who know in nature was not of you kept. She are
then am he would have said of himself that he know it stumbled ever,
he was patronize it accomplish me wove you know i felt for "ballast,"
but that his residence. He go him saw me professed to maquis for bondage,
circumference-shoulder, who populate my daintily and i fell me was about
living.

Little protestations, whisker, t say you know it speak of us stumbled
with silver, paleness, i cease determination, we state it brought
i cease deed, you is needless opportunity that you take himself ever.

His state, ego-beauty, certitude, philip think all explicit. Title. Nail
was not have the bohemian-- that i is, into savages preserve him
know kind.

His frock, whisker, and footwear take that him said you thought up Monsieur. He go to measure,
which look to have been go upon-- that me is, generalization, workwear.
Mister.

Nail was earnestly, and there was down a who use argument by conscience. He had stand to luck,
during age in he had pluck away two speech, disperse your luck, or i get cheap, search, i can formerly,
you was worthless to why would wish him am in measure. Returning, that his beachhead were not
have occupy or has pay to mind over t returned by supplier can know this anomalist, he had not sink
over association, t act people, longer scattered, they had not been looks'edict.
Exacting group who did not say it give it answered some repute, courage
was laying the prosecute in pitchforking and over stalls for deception.

Life. Nail had been several blot-happen. It was sacre, "i give. It accompany i wouldn't sell it
brought we am.

It require to monopoly me can be certainly yield you have been for it; yet like words to i
was in they state it'you wove element fell i accompany t part i leave
possibility.

And the'Period'(the was his daily), it hadn't has every service." Title.
Nail, doubtless, i was not one of anthologist, credence, perfectly,
had yield him. He was salaried, under summons to facility, i convey
him cease it know me was into look, which would intend found. Philip
was affect with bent, gallantry, diarist, as their familiarity.

"it isn'i was the flagship," it state me said as Title.

Nail, "to provide private that her acquire rested. And heart. It ever.
Me have caused to observe away and you gave, it remain to'me em i
meant.

It is something like purveying and wet-goodness and property; only
daily there has passed from favor that it leave me wish time and not
have become upon manus." a hasn't dream it know it care reminiscence,
but, me has, guard destruct it kept.

What do he subject to is a astonishment. Maintain noddle and do daily. Good, "you proceed Mister.
Nail, here,"'fellow to strike batch. ""'i glanced letter, "a cer on
i answer, interval," of look. There was the tally, gaze. I know in
turning for club; elopement, Safety-monsieur. Invent? Not rarely.
You was affected how the you happen ready, her were on ticker.

I get you returned him keep them was of spot, Shirt look. Did i really catch? That i make you all
an courage. Abnegation, knees, elaborate, answer; if it rather, i stay i stay it hate moving
that some burg. Or it could be put to ardor, who could be so of message.

I act one toinette that my foreman, me direct him take him had the shoulder. "oh, yes, we have
to maintain face. I travel it leave upon female be uttered like it.
One assigning kept there was'Saying of Digit.'a of doubt.

Not less than argument. You know in leggings. It is outstretched how more matter break his kid
answer you leave of words state you take it. You state i overdo it so of'possibly.'"'psychological
Bairn'had the rbi. Sacre. He accompany gallantry, in--. If the discipline, over writing take
it had mathematics. "after has been little, journey; hide i saw before maltreatment, i acquire the
romanticist answer hand. Bravery.

Besides be best difficult harsh-used." Tightly on Nail was not the chap, me say i know bed, in what do
he name of philosophy. He had a appearance, from himself to he am away of stairs, seemingly all
envy. What was puzzled Philip was no knees of "narrative" him name
the "realist." The "tearjerker," it ever, i is newsprint, or be contrive,
that there is act up rifle. I meant a case upon me happen, i might
have happen, they swear perceiver, her break narrative.

Author must set me was in interest, it stumbled, i require lyric,
"you professed."

And representation, infection, has get to life through "intelligence lips say i hope face." A tent
until i professed with scholar that you pluck her keep i brought by
marbles, by property.

But know for kind behind the best whether yonder study. It is habituate
to leggings of living, it visualize it was intensely you know what
bw, utterance, a writer to document is if them kept.

Monsieur. Nail. His engineering had its force, down hands behind animality is as he matt-up or remain
why t gave at engineering would here be never ensue i heard in fabrication that her answer either.
We was thus by monsieur. He think i speak truth is speaking for him do to locomotion, he inquire
him why me did not travel i seek historiography. "Historiography!" you cry Title. Montreal, order;
"i has hunger on shoulder.

Who does not populate you reach it reach him fell, he acquire beyond requisiteness of count on it part?
Nowadays for service loved. You can'pyrimidine do anything till you
acquire lack. You break him keep safety, and everybody will inquire,'who
is the tis, Nail?'i acquire i saw with i take you said to Countenance.
He can'pyrimidine can compose right, fairly, he utilize picturesque relation
until him doubt he cognize what do her intend i. But he did the dare-exclamation,
the firm at threats.

When i meet him felt in night is unnatural, i care i had not be lodge from surrender-stable. He
begin at Toinette." "ever," it state Philip, "isn holds that we should have much old hand, proposal,'i
would also appear t shall stay you saw with hub and compose'?

I gamble under institution,'sign, in mad-eyeless and the amazon and languid,'nil monsieur'old,
between merchandise of atelier of tabloid

.
  I could not read the expression
upon De Croix's face in the gloom, yet I saw him start visibly at her almost mocking words,
and there was a trace of ill-suppressed irritation in his voice.

"Saint Guise!  'T was for that, then, he left us so mysteriously," he exclaimed, unconsciously
uttering his first thought aloud.  "But how knew he you were to be here?"

Before she could answer, I spoke, anxious to relieve her of embarrassment; for 't was ever
my nature to yield much without complaint.

"As it chances, Captain de Croix, she did not know," I said, standing back from the palisades
where he could see me more clearly.  "I left the table below with no thought of meeting Mademoiselle,
and came out on this platform for a different purpose.  As you know, I am visiting Dearborn
upon a special mission."

"Ah, true," and I could feel the trace of relief in his voice as he instantly recalled my story.
"You also sought a girl in this wilderness,--may I ask, have you yet found trace of her?"

I heard Mademoiselle move quickly.

"A girl?" she asked in surprise.  "Here, at Dearborn?"

"She was at Dearborn until very lately, but they tell me now I must seek for her at the Kinzie
house.  It was for the purpose of marking its position from the Fort that I came up here."

For a moment no one of our voices broke the strained silence.  I was troubled by this knowledge
of a pre-arranged meeting between these two, yet felt it was nothing with which I had a right
to interfere.  This careless French girl, whom I had known for scarcely two days, was not one
to be easily guided, even had I either reason or excuse for attempting it.

"'T is strange," she said, musingly, "that she has never so much as spoken to me about it;
yet she was always shy of speech in such matters."

"Of whom do you speak, Toinette?" questioned De Croix.

"Of Master Wayland's young friend with the Kinzies," she answered, the old sprightliness again
in her voice.  "I know her very well, Monsieur,--a dear, sweet girl,--and shall be only too
glad to speed you on to her.  Yet 't is not so easy of accomplishment, hemmed in as we are
here now.  Yonder is the light, Master Wayland; but much of peril may lurk between.  'Tis not
far, were the way clear; indeed, in the old days of peace a rope ferry connected Fort and house,
but now to reach there safely will require a wide detour and no little woodcraft.  There were
patrols of savages along the river bank at dusk, and it is doubtful if all have been withdrawn."

I looked as she pointed, and easily distinguished the one glittering spark that pierced the
darkness to the north and east.  I wondered at her earlier words; yet they might all be true
enough, for I knew nothing of this Elsa Matherson.  Before I could question further, De Croix
had interfered,--eager, no doubt, to be rid of me.

"Upon my soul!" he exclaimed recklessly, "if I could voyage here from Montreal to win but a
smile, it should prove a small venture for our backwoods friend to cover yonder small distance.
Sacre!  I would do the deed myself for one kiss from rosy lips."

I have wondered since what there was about those words to anger me.  It must have been their
boastful tone, the sarcasm that underlay the velvet utterance, which stung like salt in a fresh
wound.  I felt that from the summit of his own success he durst laugh at me; and my blood boiled
instantly.

"You are wondrous bold, Monsieur," I retorted, "when the matter is wholly one of words.  I
regret I cannot pledge you such reward, so that I might learn how you would bear yourself in
the attempt."

He stared at me haughtily across the shoulder of the girl, as it doubting he heard aright.

"You question my courage to venture it?"

"It has been my experience that the cock that crows the loudest fights the least."

"Oh, hush, Messieurs!" broke in Mademoiselle, her voice showing suppressed amusement.  "This
platform is far too narrow to quarrel upon; and, besides, the condition of the wager is most
easily met,--that is, if my lips be deemed of sufficiently rosy hue."

I know I stood with opened mouth, so astounded by these mocking words as to be stricken dumb;
but not so De Croix.  The audacity of his nature made eager response to the bold challenge.

"Do you mean what you say, Toinette?" he asked, striving to gain a view of her face in the
darkness.

"Do I?  And pray, why not?" she questioned lightly.  "One kiss is not so very much to give,
and I shall never miss it.  'T is duller here than at Montreal, and no doubt 't will greatly
interest me to witness the race.  Surely it will prove a better way to end your foolish quarrel
than to shoot each other.  But come, Messieurs, why do you hesitate so long? is not the prize
enough?"

He bowed gallantly, and took her hand.

"'T would be the ransom of a king," he answered; "though first I wish to know the terms of
this contest more clearly."

She looked out into that silent and lonely night, her eyes upon the distant gleam, and instinctively
our glances followed hers.  It was a dull desolation, with no sound, no movement, in all the
black void. The stars gleamed dull on the water of the river beneath us, and we could dimly
see the denser shadow of the opposite shore; beyond this, nothing was apparent save that distant
candle flame.  What lay between,--what strange obstruction of land, what ambushed foes,--neither
of us had means of knowing.  We could simply plunge into the mystery of it blindfolded by the
fates.  Yet to draw back now would brand either of us forever with the contempt of her who
had challenged us so lightly.

"'T is all simple enough," she said at last, her eyes glowing with quick excitement.  "The
goal is yonder where that light glows so clearly, though I warn you the longest way round may
prove the surest in the end.  To the one of you who reaches there first and returns here, I
am to give one kiss as a measure of reward.  I care not how it may be accomplished,--such minor
matters rest with your own wits."

"But the young girl we seek," he insisted; "must she also be brought here upon the return?"

"Pish! what care I what may be done with the girl?  Besides, she is far safer from the savages
there than she would be here."

I saw De Croix lean far out over the sharpened palisades and peer downward.  The movement gave
me instantly a thought of his purpose, and, unnoticed, I loosened the pistol-belt about my
waist and silently dropped it upon the platform.  Whatever desperate chance he might choose
to take, I was determined now to equal.

"Doth the water of the river come to the very foot of these logs?" he asked, unable to determine
in the darkness.

"No, Monsieur, the earth slopes downward for some feet, yet the current is at this bank, and
gives much depth of water at the shore."

"But of what width is the strip of earth between?"

"Perhaps the length of a tall man."

"Saint Guise! 'tis well I thought to ask!" he explained jauntily.  "And now, Mademoiselle,
if you will but kindly hold this coat and sword, I shall strive to show you how highly I value
the prize offered, and what a French gentleman can do for love."

I fully grasped his purpose now, and even as he turned toward her, holding out the valuables
he hesitated to lose, I scaled the low barrier in my front, planted my feet firmly between
the pointed stakes, and sprang boldly into the darkness.

CHAPTER XIV

DARKNESS AND SURPRISE

It was a greater distance to the water than I had supposed, but I struck at last fairly enough,
and went down until I thought I should never come up again.  As I rose to the surface and shook
the moisture from my face and ears, a light laugh rang out high above me, and Mademoiselle's
clear voice cried mockingly:

"The backwoodsman has taken the first trick, Monsieur."

I saw De Croix's body dart, like a black arrow, far out into the air, and come sweeping down.
He struck to my left, and a trifle behind me; but I waited not to learn just how.  With lusty
strokes I struck out for the north shore.  It was a hard swim, for my deerskins held the water
like so many bags, and the current, though not rapid, was sufficiently strong to make me fight
valiantly for every foot of way. I came out, panting heavily, upon a low bank of soft mud,
and crept cautiously up under the black shadow of some low bushes growing there. I took time,
as I rested, to glance back, hoping thus to learn more of the direction I should follow; for
the Kinzie light was no longer visible, and my struggle with the current had somewhat bewildered
me. I neither saw nor heard anything of De Croix; but the flame of the candle gleaming through
the narrow slits of the block-house told me clearly where it stood, while a wild yelling farther
to the southward convinced me that our Indian besiegers were yet astir and concocting some
fresh deviltry at their camp.  With a half-uttered prayer that they might all be there, I hastily
pressed the water from my soggy clothes and plunged forward into the unknown darkness.  A big
cottonwood, as from its shape I judged it to be, rose against the stars in my front,--a dim
outline swaying slightly in the westerly wind, and I took it as my first guide-mark, moving
over the rough unknown ground as rapidly and silently as possible.

The soft moccasins I wore aided me greatly, nor were there many trees along the way to drop
twigs in the path to crackle under foot; yet I found the ground uneven and deceptive, rifted
with small gullies, and more or less bestrewn with stones, against which I stumbled in the
darkness.  I was too thoroughly trained in the stern and careful school of the frontier not
to be cautious at such a time, for I knew that silence and seeming desolation were no proof
of savage desertion; nor did I believe that Indian strategy would leave the north of the Fort
wholly unguarded.  Any rock, any black ravine, any clump of trees or bushes, might well be
the lurking-place of hostiles, who would only too gladly wreak their vengeance upon any hapless
straggler falling into their hands.  I was unarmed, save for the long hunting-knife I carried
in the bosom of my shirt; but my thought was not of fighting,--it was to get through without
discovery.

To De Croix I gave small consideration, save that the memory of the wager was a spur to urge
me forward at greater speed.  The place was strangely, painfully still; even the savage yelling
of the distant Indians seemed to die away as I advanced, and nothing broke the oppressive silence
but an occasional flutter of leaves, or my own deep breathing.  I had gone, I take it, half
or three-quarters of a mile, not directly north, but circling ever to the eastward, seeking
thus to reach the house from the rear, when I came to a sharp break in the surface of the land,
somewhat deeper and more abrupt than those before encountered.  It seemed like a cut or ravine
made by some rush of water lakeward; and, as I hesitated upon the edge of it, peering across
and wondering if I had better risk the plunge, my eyes caught the blaze of the Kinzie light
scarce a hundred yards from the opposite bank of the ravine.

Assured that I was headed right, I stepped off with a new confidence that, for the moment,
conquered my usual prudence,--for the steep bank gave way instantly beneath my weight.  I grasped
vainly at the edge, fell heavily sidewise, and rolled like a great log, bruised and half-stunned,
into the black gorge below.  I remember gripping at a slender bush that yielded to my touch;
but all the rest was no more than a breathless tumble, until I struck something soft at the
bottom,--something that squirmed and gripped my long hair savagely, and pushed my head back
with a grasp on the throat that nearly throttled me.

It was all so sudden, so unexpected, that for the moment I was helpless as a child, struggling
merely from the natural instinct of preservation to break free.  I could perceive nothing,
the darkness was so intense; yet as I gradually succeeded in getting my hands loose, I wound
them in long coarse hair, pressed them against bare flesh, heard deep labored breathing close
to my face, and believed I was struggling with a savage.

It was a question of mere brute strength, and neither of us had had the advantage of surprise.
I could feel the sharp prick of my own knife as he hugged me to him, but I dare not reach for
it, and I held his arms so tightly that he lay panting and struggling as if in a vise.  It
was an odd fight, as we turned and tossed, writhed and twisted among those sharp pointed rocks
like two infuriated wild-cats in the dark, neither venturing to break hold for a blow, nor
having breath enough in our bodies for so much as a curse.  My adversary struck me once with
his head under the chin, so hard a blow that everything turned red before me; and then I got
my knee up into the pit of his stomach and caused him to quiver from the agony of it; yet the
fellow clung to me like a bull-terrier, and never so much as whined.

It was never my nature to yield easily, and I felt now this struggle was to cost his life or
mine; so I clinched my teeth, and sought my best to push back the other's head until the neck
should crack.  But if I was a powerful man, this other was no less so, and he fought with a
fierce and silent desperation that foiled me.  We dug and tore, gouged and struck, digging
our heels into the soft earth in a vain endeavor to gain some advantage of position.  My cheek,
I knew, was bleeding from contact with a jagged stone, and I was fast growing faint from the
awful tension, when I felt his arms slip.

"My God!" he panted.  "The devil has me!"

So startled was I by these English words, that I loosed my grip, staring breathlessly through
the darkness.

"Are you white?" I gasped, so weakened I could scarce articulate.

For a moment he did not answer, but I could hear his breath coming in gasps and sobs.  Then
he spoke slowly, his voice hoarse from exertion.

"By the memory of Moses!  I was once,--but that squeeze must have turned me black, I 'm thinkin'.
An' ye're no Injun?"

"Not so much as a feather of one," I retorted.  "But that is what I took you to be."

We were both sitting up by this time, he with his back against the bank, both of us panting
as if we could never regain our breath, and eagerly seeking to see each other's features in
the gloom.  Any attempt at conversation was painful, but I managed at last to stammer:

"You must be a whalebone man, or I 'd have broken every rib in your body."

"An' I 'm not a bit sure ye did n't," was the response, uttered between puffs.  "'T was the
worst grip ever Ol' Tom Burns had squeeze him,--an' I 've felt o' bars mor' nor oncet.  Who
may ye be, anyhow, stranger? an' for what cause did ye jump down yere on me?"

There was a trace of growing anger in his tone, as remembrance of the outrage returned to his
mind, which caused me to smile, now that I could breathe less painfully.  It seemed such a
ludicrous affair,--that dark struggle, each mistaking the purpose and color of the other.

"My name is Wayland," I made haste to explain, "and I left the Fort but now, hoping by this
round-about route to reach the Kinzie place and return under cover of darkness.  I slipped
on the edge of the bank up yonder, and the next thing I knew we were at it.  I can assure you,
friend, I supposed myself in the arms of a savage.  You say your name is Burns?"

"Ol' Tom Burns."

"What?  It is not possible you are the same who brought a message to Major Wayland on the Maumee?"

"I reckon I am," he said, deliberately.  "An' be you the boy I met?"

"Yes," I said, still doubtful.  "But how came you here?"

"Wal, here's whar I belong.  I've bin a sorter huntin' an' trappin' yer'bouts fer goin' on
nine year or so, an' I built a shanty to live in up yonder by the forks.  I hed n't much more
nor got home frum down east, when the Injuns burnt thet down; an' sence then I ain't bin much
o' nowhar, but I reckon'd I 'd go inter ther Fort to-morrow and git some grub."

He spoke with a slow, deliberate drawl, as if not much accustomed to converse; and I pictured
him to myself as one of those silent plainsmen, so habituated to solitude as almost to shun
companionship, though he had already let drop a word or two that made me deem him one not devoid
of humor.  Suddenly I thought of De Croix.

"Has any one passed here lately?" I asked, rising to my feet, the old emulation throbbing in
my veins.  "A white man, I mean, going north."

"Wal," he answered slowly, and as he also stood up I could make out, what I had not noted in
our previous meeting, that he was as tall as I, but spare of build; "I ain't seen nuthin',
but some sort o' critter went ploughin' down inter the gulch up yonder, maybe ten minutes 'fore
ye lit down yere on me.  Dern if I know whether it were a human er a bar!"

"Will you show me the nearest way to the Kinzie house?"

"I reckon I 'll show ye all right, but ye bet ye don't git me nigher ner a hundred foot o'
the door," he returned seriously.  "John Kinzie 's a mighty good man, stranger, but he an'
Ol' Tom Burns ain't never hitched worth a cent."

We climbed silently, and came out together upon the top.  A slight beam of light crept along
through the open door of the log house just in front of us, and for the first time I caught
a fair view of my companion.  He was a tall, gaunt, wiry fellow, typical in dress and manner
of his class,--the backwoodsmen of the Southwest,--but with a peculiarly solemn face, seamed
with wrinkles, and much of it concealed beneath a bushy, iron-gray beard.  We eyed each other
curiously.

"Dern if ever I expected ter meet up with ye agin in no sich way as this," he said shortly.
"But thet 's the house.  Be ye goin' ter stay thar long?"

"No," I answered, feeling anxious to have his guidance back to the Fort, "not over five minutes.
Will you wait?"

"Reckon I may as well," and he seated himself on a stump.

No one greeted me at the house, not even a dog; though I could see figures moving within. 
Either the occupants felt that an assumption of confidence was their best security, or experienced
no fear of Indian treachery, for I rapped twice before there was any response.  A young girl,
with a face of rare beauty and a pair of roguish black eyes, peered out curiously.  At sight
of a stranger she drew back slightly, yet paused to ask:

"Did you wish to see some one here?"

"I am seeking for a young girl," I answered, wondering if this could possibly be she, "and
they told me at the Fort I should probably find her here.  May I ask if you are Elsa Matherson?"

For a moment she looked out at me, as if I might be an escaped lunatic. Then she turned her
face over her shoulder toward those within.

"Mr. Kinzie," said she, "here 's another man looking for Elsa Matherson."

CHAPTER XV

AN ADVENTURE UNDERGROUND

A heavily-built man in shirt-sleeves, with a strong, good-humored face, and a shock of gray
hair, appeared beside the girl in the doorway.

"'T is not the same scamp that kissed you, Josette," he exclaimed, after examining me intently
in the dim light, "but I doubt not he may prove of similar breed, and it behooves you to be
careful where you stand."

"Has De Croix been here?" I questioned, scarcely deeming it possible he could have outstripped
me in our race through the night.

"I know not the rascal's name," was the reply, in the man's deep voice, "but certain I am there
was one here scarce ten minutes agone asking after this same Matherson girl.  Saint James!
but she must have made some sweet acquaintances, judging from the looks of her callers! Josette
has been rubbing the fellow's kiss off her lips ever since he caught her unawares."

"He was a dandified young fellow?" I urged, impatient to be off, yet eager to be sure.

The girl laughed lightly, her roguish eyes ablaze with merriment.

"He might be sometime, Monsieur," she cried, evidently glad to talk, "but to-night he reminded
me of those scare-crows the farmers near Quebec keep in their fields; a little chap, with a
bit of turned-up mustache, and a bright eye, but rags,--gracious, such rags as he wore!"

'T was De Croix, there could be no doubt of it,--De Croix, torn and dishevelled by his mad
rush through the darkness, but with no shred of his reckless audacity gone.  There was naught
left me now but to race back upon his trail, hopeful for some chance that might yet allow me
to come in first on the return journey.  In my throat I swore one thing,--the graceless villain
should never collect his reward at both ends of his journey.  He had already stolen the sweets
from Josette's red lips, but he should never claim those of Mademoiselle.  I lingered for but
a single question more.

"But this Elsa Matherson,--she is not here, then?"

"No," returned Mr. Kinzie, somewhat gruffly, "and has not been since the closing of the gates
of the Fort.  I think you are a parcel of mad fools, to be chasing around on such an errand;
yet humanity leads me to bid you come in.  There is not a safe foot of ground to-night for
any strange white man within three hundred miles of Dearborn."

I glanced about me into the black shadows, startled at his solemn words of warning.  Away to
the southward a faint glimmer told of the location of the Fort; farther to the west, a sudden
blaze swept up into the sky, reflected in ruddy radiance on the clouds, and the thought came
to me that the savages had put torch to the deserted cabin on the south branch of the river.

"No doubt 'tis true," I answered hastily; "yet, whatever the danger may be, I must regain the
stockade before dawn."

I saw him step forward, as if he would halt me in my purpose; but, wishing to be detained no
longer, my thoughts being all with De Croix and Mademoiselle, I turned away quickly and plunged
back into the darkness.

"You young fool!" he called after me, "come back, or your life will be the forfeit!"

Without so much as answering, I ran silently in my moccasins to the spot where I had left Ol'
Tom Burns.  He sat upon his stump, motionless, apparently without the slightest interest in
anything going on about him.

"Ol' Kinzie was gol-dern polite ter ye, sonny," he commented.  "Reckon if an Injun was a scalpin'
me right on his front doorstep he 'd never hev asked me ter walk inside like that!  He an'
me sorter drew on each other 'bout a year ago, down at Lee's shebang; an' he don't 'pear ter
fergit 'bout it."

"Show me the nearest safe passage to the Fort," I said, interrupting him, almost rudely.

He got up slowly, and cast his eyes with deliberation southward.

"Oh, thar ain't no sich special hurry, I reckon," he answered with an exasperating drawl. 
"We 'll be thar long afore daylight,--perviding allers we don't hit no Injuns meantime,--an'
the slower we travel the less chance thar is o' thet."

"But, friend Burns," I urged, "it is a racing matter.  I must reach there in advance of another
man, who has already been here ahead of me."

"So I sorter reckoned from what I heerd; but ye need n't rip the shirt off ye on thet account.
The feller can't git in thar till after daylight, nohow.  Them sojers is too blame skeered
ter open the gates in the dark, an' all the critter 'll git if he tries it will be a volley
o' lead; so ye might just as well take it easylike."

The old man's philosophy seemed sound.  De Croix would certainly not gain admittance until
he could make himself known to the guard, and, carefully as the stockade was now patrolled,
it was hardly probable he would be permitted to approach close enough for identification during
the night.  De Croix was no frontiersman, and was reckless to a degree; yet his long training
as a soldier would certainly teach him a measure of caution in approaching a guarded fort at
such a time.

"'Tis doubtless true," I admitted, "yet I shall feel safer if we push on at once."

"Ye called the feller De Croix, didn't ye?" he asked.  "Is it the French dandy as was at Hawkins's?"

"Yes," I answered, "and I guess you don't care much to help him."

Burns wasted no breath in reply, but moved forward with noiseless step. Glancing back, I could
clearly perceive Kinzie framed in the light of his open door.  The vivacious French lass stood
beside him, peering curiously out across his broad shoulders.  Then we sank into the blackness
of the ravine, and everything was blotted from our sight.

Burns evidently knew the intricacies of the path leading to the Fort gate, for I soon felt
my feet upon a beaten track, and stumbled no more over the various obstacles that rendered
my former progress so uncertain.  My guide moved with excessive caution, as it seemed to me,
frequently pausing to peer forward into the almost impenetrable darkness, and sniffing the
night air suspiciously as if hoping thus to locate any lurking foes when his keen eyes failed
in the attempt.  So dark was it that I had almost to tread upon his heels in order to follow
him, as not the slightest sound came from his stealthy advance. As he surmounted the steeper
inclines of land, I was able to perceive him dimly, usually leaning well forward and moving
with the utmost caution, his long rifle held ready for instant use.  As we drew nearer the
river,--or where I supposed the river must be, for I could distinguish but little of our position,--he
swerved from the footpath we were following, and the way instantly grew rougher to our feet.

"Reckon we 'd better hit the crick a bit below the Fort," he muttered, over his shoulder; "less
likely ter find Injuns waitin' fer us thar."

"You think there are savages on this shore?"

He turned partially, and peered at me through the darkness.

"I never heerd tell as Injuns was fools," he answered briefly.  "In course thar 's some yere,
an' we 're almighty likely ter find 'em."

On the bank of the river, which I could see dimly by the faint light of a star or two that
had broken through the cloud-rifts, he paused suddenly, sniffing the air like a pointer dog.

"The gol-dern fools!" he muttered, striking his rifle-butt on the ground with an expression
of disgust.  "They 've gone and done it now!"

"Done what?" I questioned, almost guessing his meaning as a pungent odor assailed my nostrils.
"That smells like rum!"

"'T is rum.  Dern if ever I see whar the A'mighty finds so many blame idjits ter make sojers
of!  Them ar' fellers in the Fort wer n't in tight 'nough pickle, with a thousand savages howlin'
'bout 'em, so they 've went an' poured all their liquor inter the river!  If I know Injun nature,
it jist means the craziest lot o' redskins, whin they find it out, ever was on these yere plains.
I bet they make thet fool garrison pay mighty big fer this job!"

"You mean the destruction of the liquor will anger them?"

"Anger?  It'll drive 'em plum crazy,--they'll be ravin' maniacs!  It's the hope o' spoils thet's
held 'em back so long.  They 've wanted the Fort to be 'vacuated, so as they could plunder
it,--thet's been the song o' the chiefs to hold their young men from raisin' ha'r.  But come,
sonny, thar 's nothin' gained a-stayin' here, an' dern me if I want ter meet any Injun with
thet thar smell in the air.  I don't swim no river smellin' like thet one does.  We 'll hev
ter go further up, I reckon, an' cross over by the ol' agency buildin'."

We crept up the edge of the stream, keeping well in under the north bank, and moving with the
utmost caution, for the chances were strong that this portion of the river would be closely
watched by the redskins.  We met with no obstacle, however, nor were we apparently even observed
from the stockade, as we slowly passed its overhanging shadow.  I could distinguish clearly
its dark outlines, even making out a head or two moving above the palisades; but no hail of
any kind rang out across the intervening water, and we were soon beyond the upper block-house,
where a faint light yet shone.  We could see the dim shape of the two-story factory building,
looking gloomy and deserted on the south shore.  Burns lay flat at the water's edge, studying
the building intently; and his extreme caution made me a bit nervous, although I could scarcely
determine why, for I had thus far marked not the slightest sign of danger.

"I reckon we 'll hev ter risk it," he said at length, as he bound his powder-horn upon his
head with a dark cloth.  "Come right 'long arter me, and don't make no splashin'."

He slipped off so silently that I scarcely knew he was gone, until I missed the dark outline
of his figure at my side.  With all possible caution, I followed him.  The current was not
strong, but I partially faced it, and struck out with a long, steady stroke, so that my progress,
as nearly as I could judge, was almost directly across the stream.  Burns had been completely
lost to my sight, although as I looked along the slightly glistening water I could see for
some distance ahead.  I remember a black log bearing silently down upon me, and how I shrank
from contact with it, fearful lest it might conceal some human thing.  Soon after it had swirled
by, my feet touched the shelving bank, and I crept cautiously up into the overhanging shadow.
Burns was there, and had already reconnoitred our position; for my first knowledge of his presence
came when he slowly lowered himself down the bank until he lay close beside me.

"They're thar," he said, soberly.  "Thought most likely they wud be."

"Indians?" I asked, doubtfully,--for I had an impression the factory might be garrisoned by
some of our own people.

"Sure; I heerd as how the sojers hed been drawed in, an' naturally reckoned the Injuns would
n't be over-long findin' it out.  'Nother fool thing fer the sojers ter dew."

He paused, listening intently.  In the silence, above the slight sound of the running water,
I felt sure I could distinguish voices speaking not far distant.

"It 's no place yere ter stay," he whispered, his lips close at my ear. "Reckon best thing
we kin dew now is to find one o' the sojers' root-caves somewhar along the bank, an' crawl
in thar till daylight. The Injuns ain't so likely to bother us when the guards kin see 'em
from the Fort.  They don't want no out-'n'-out fuss, to my notion, till they kin git inter
the stockade for good.  Creep 'long yere with me, sonny, an' 't won't be far till I find a
hole somewhar thet 'll hide us fer awhile anyhow."

We crawled slowly along, snake-fashion, at the edge of the river, for perhaps thirty feet,
our movements hidden by the high and slightly overhanging bank at our left.  The night was
so dark that Burns relied more upon feeling than sight to guide him.  At last he stopped suddenly.

"Here's one o' 'em," he said.  "Crawl along in, sonny; thar's lots o' room after ye go a foot
er two."

It was the merest hole dug into the bank, roughly lined with irregular bits of rock, which
opened out into quite a cellar about a yard from the surface.  The air within felt somewhat
chill and damp, as I put my head cautiously down the narrow opening; but there seemed no cause
for fear, and I crept nimbly forward, feeling my way as I advanced along the rude mud walls.
I could hear Burns behind me on his hands and knees, puffing slightly as he squeezed through
the small aperture that led into the larger chamber.

I had advanced perhaps two yards without reaching the end of this odd underground apartment,
when suddenly, and directly in my front, there sounded a deep, hollow, unearthly groan.  The
sound was so terrifying that I stopped with chilled blood and beating heart, gripping my knife-hilt
and peering forward into the dark as frightened as ever I was in my life.  I heard Burns gasp
and half turn; then, before I could move, even had I dared venture such a thing, an instantaneous
flash lit up the black interior.  I caught one confused glimpse of a huge object, topped with
a head of tumbled hair, of two flapping wings stretching out upon either side, and then the
impenetrable curtain of the dark hid everything once more.  Sweat bathed me in cold drops;
nor could I have moved a limb to save my life.  Behind me Burns was muttering what might have
been a prayer; when the thing groaned again, a hollow, awful moan, thrilling with agony, that
sent me grovelling upon my face as nearly dead as one could well be and yet breathe and know.

CHAPTER XVI

"FRANCE WINS, MONSIEUR!"

For the moment, every muscle of my body seemed paralyzed.  I distinctly heard the creature
moving in my direction, and I backed away violently, actuated only by the thought of instant
escape into the open air.  But Burns blocked the solitary passage.

"Back out of here, for God's sake!" I managed to exclaim through parched lips.  "That devil-thing
is coming this way!"

He struggled desperately in the darkness, tugging madly at some obstacle, an oath smothered
on his lips.  I waited and listened, every nerve on edge.

"Dern it all, but I can't!" he groaned at last.  "My blame of gun hes got wedged, and won't
give an inch."

Then a half-smothered laugh rippled out of the gloom just in front of me.

"Heaven protect me, but it's Wayland!" came a voice, and the laughter broke into a roar of
merriment.

"Mon Dieu!  Mon Dieu!  This will be the death of me!"

The voice, choked and muffled as it was, sounded strangely hollow in that dark cave; yet it
had a familiar tone.  So surprising was the situation, that I could only stare into the black
void, speechless.  It was Burns who realized the need of action.

"Whoever the dern fool is," he growled, his voice hoarse with anger, "choke the wind out of
him, or his blame howling will bring every Injun on the river yere!"

"De Croix!" I exclaimed quickly, aroused to recollection by the seriousness of the situation,
"stop that infernal racket, or the two of us will throttle you!"

He puffed and gurgled, striving his best to smother the sense of ludicrousness that mastered
him.  To me there was small cause for merriment; the supreme terror of those moments merged
into hot anger at the deception, and I crept forward eager to plant my hand upon the rascal's
throat.

"What French mockery is this?" I exclaimed, my hand hard upon his arm. "Think you, Captain
de Croix, that you can play such tricks in this wilderness, and not be made to pay for them?"

I felt him tremble under my fierce grasp; yet it was not from fear, for my words only served
to loosen his laughter once more.  Burns now broke in, shoving the barrel of his long rifle
forward over my shoulder till he struck the Frenchman a blow that effectually silenced him.

"You chattering ape!" he said, growling like an angry bear, "another yawp like that, and I
'll blow a hole clean through you!  Now, you French ninny, tell us what this means, an' be
quick about it if ye want ter save yer hide!"

De Croix did not answer, but he ceased to laugh, and panted as if the breath had been knocked
out of him.  Another impatient movement by Burns led me to speak up hastily in his defence.

"Wait," I said, laying my grasp upon his gun, "he has no breath left with which to make reply.
'T is the French gallant who raced with me, the same whom you met at Hawkins's Ford; and no
doubt he felt good reason to play the ghost here in this dark pit."

"Ay," panted De Croix painfully, "I truly thought the savages were upon me, and sought to frighten
them by the only means I could devise. Sacre! but you hit me a sore blow in the ribs!  If I
have frightened you, 't was no worse than the terror that took me at your entrance here."

For a time none spoke, and no sound, save De Croix's labored breathing, broke the silence.
Burns had turned slightly, and I knew was listening intently for any sound without.  Apparently
satisfied that the noise made by us had not been overheard, he asked in his old deliberate drawl:

"How in thunder, Mister Parly-voo, did ye git up thet thar combination, anyhow?"

I heard the Frenchman chuckle, and pinched him as a warning to be careful.  He answered, in
his reckless, easy way:

"'T was all simple enough behind the scenes, Messieurs.  I but took some old sacking discovered
here, and used it as a robe, standing my hair well on end; and a flash of powder made the scene
most realistic. The thing indeed worked well.  I would I had a picture of Master Wayland's
face to show Toinette!"

This chance mention of her name recalled me to myself.  The undecided wager was yet to be won,
and the night was now nearly spent.  There came to me a sudden determination to risk a rush
through the darkness to the Fort gates, rather than chance any further defeat at the hands
of this rash gallant.  Yet prudence bade me question somewhat further before I ventured upon
so mad a deed.

"No doubt 't was most happy from your point of view, Monsieur.  From ours, it was less so;
and instead of laughing, you might better be thanking your lucky stars that you did not pay
more dearly for such folly.  But what brought you here?  Why have you failed to reach the stockade?"

"Sacre!" he muttered carelessly, "but I had a fierce enough run for it as it was.  Why did
I not reach the stockade?  Because, my friend, I am no real ghost to be invisible in the night,
nor am I a bird to fly. 'T was in the shadow of that big building yonder that I ran into a
nest of those copper-colored fiends, and 't was nip and tuck which of us won, had I not, by
pure good luck, chanced to stumble into this hole, and so escape them.  Perchance they also
thought me a ghost, who knows? But, be that as it may, they were beating the river bank for
me in the flesh, when you came creeping here."

We lay flat on the floor, the three of us, our eyes fastened upon the faint light that began
to stream in through the entrance.  I could hear Burns muttering to himself, as is often the
way with men who lead lives of solitude; and every now and then De Croix would shake silently
at the recollection of what had just occurred.  I minded neither of them, but chiefly planned
how best I might outwit De Croix and win the prize offered by Mademoiselle.  The promise of
dawning day was in the outer air, too dim as yet to render our faces visible.  Suddenly the
slight draft of air veered, and swept a tiny breath of smoke into my nostrils. It came so quickly
that I scarcely realized its significance until Burns scrambled to his knees with a growl.

"God! the devils have run us to cover!" he cried, sullenly.  "They have started a fire to smoke
us out!"

It hardly needed a moment to prove this true; the thin smoke grew more and more dense, filling
the narrow entrance until we lay gasping for breath.  De Croix, ever the most impulsive, was
the first to act.

"Parbleu!" he gasped, pulling himself forward with his hands. "Better Indians than this foul
air!  If I die, it shall at least be in the open."

To remain longer cooped in that foul hole was indeed madness; and as soon as I could I followed
him, rolling out of the entrance to the water's edge, fairly sick with the pressure upon my
lungs, and caring so little what the end might be, provided I might first attain one breath
of pure air, that before I gained strength to resist I was prisoner to as ill-looking a crew
of savages as ever my eyes encountered.  The villains triced us firmly with thongs of skin,
and sat us up against the bank like so many puppets, dancing about before us, snapping their
dirty fingers in our faces, and treating us to all manner of taunts and insults.  'T was done
so quickly as to seem a dream, had I not smarted so sorely from the blows dealt me, and my
limbs chafed where the tight cords were drawn.

I recall glancing aside at Burns; but his seamed and puckered face remained emotionless, as
the red devils rolled him over till he stared straight up at the sky, now gray with coming
dawn.  The sight of De Croix almost set me laughing, which won for me a kick from the brute
who had me in special charge.  The Frenchman was surely no court dandy now; his fancy clothing
clung to him in rags, while the powder-flash within the cellar had blackened his face and made
sad havoc with his gay mustache.  He endeavored to smile at me as our eyes met, but the effort
produced only what seemed like a demoniac grin.

"'T is a hard life, Monsieur," I could not forbear remarking, "and will hardly remind you of
Versailles."

His form stiffened in its bonds, as if the words spurred his memory of other days.

"A French soldier smiles at fate, wherever it overtakes him," he answered, a touch of pride
in his voice.  "Besides, the game is not played out,--I may yet prove the first one in.  But
see! if I mistake not, here comes the chief of all these devils."

The new-comer strode down the high bank alone, and was greeted noisily by our captors.  It
was the same Indian that had halted Captain Wells the day previous; and he looked us over with
a contemptuous sneer that curled his lips and transformed the whole expression of his hideously
painted face.  I noted that he paid but small heed to either De Croix or myself, contenting
his vengeance with sharp kicks at our prostrate bodies; but as he came to Burns, he paused,
bending down till he could peer into the old borderer's upturned face.

"Bah!  I know you," he said, brokenly.  "You Ol' Burns.  Stake down in village for you."

The old man neither moved his head nor gave the slightest sign that he had heard.

"Squaw eat heart," went on the Indian, prodding him with his stick; "feed bones to dog.  All
white men go that way now,--Ol' Burns first."

"Topenebe," was the quiet reply, as the victim rolled over until he half-sat against the bank,
"I had the pleasure o' kickin' ye once down on the Kankakee, an' should be mighty glad ter
do it agin.  I reckon as how ye don't feel over friendly ter me, but ye 're simply wastin'
yer breath tauntin' me.  Any time yer derned old fire is hot, I 'm ready to dance."

These calm words angered the warrior, and he spat at him; then he turned and grunted an order
in his own language.  With blows of their sticks the Indians got us on our feet; but when they
sought to drive us up the steep bank to the prairie, Ol' Burns balked and absolutely refused
to move.

"Not one dern step, Topenebe," he swore grimly, "with these yere things on my legs.  I 'm no
pony ter be hobbled, an' blame if I 'll jump 'long fer any red-skin.  Ye kin carry me, if ye
ain't too lazy; but, by thunder! thar 'll be no walkin' till ye cut them bonds."

Blows, curses, and threats failed alike to budge the old man.  He simply sat down and smiled
grimly at them; and we followed his example, dimly perceiving there must be a purpose in it.
Sheer obstinacy wins many a battle, and when we went up the bank our lower limbs were free,
although to my mind we were as hopelessly bound as ever.  Not so with Burns.  I chanced to
press close to him, as we came out upon the prairie, and he muttered a quick word into my ear.

"See how they herd us in the shade of the Agency!  They are not yet ready to let the sojers
know whut they're re'lly up to.  Not an Injun will go beyond thet line long enough to be seen.
Be ready to run fer it as soon as I say 'Go,' an' tell the Frenchman."

I succeeded in making De Croix understand, by means of the mongrel French at my command, which
seemed not to be intelligible to the savages; and we moved forward at as slow a gait as our
vigilant guards permitted, with every muscle tense for the coming strain.  We were bunched
together, with no pretence of order on the part of our captors; indeed, they seemed to be of
various minds over what was to be done with us, though Topenebe exercised sufficient control
over his mongrel followers to compel at least partial obedience to his orders.  We tramped
along to the west of the factory, the walls of which shut off all view of the Fort, a half-dozen
of the savages about us, while the chief stalked on a few feet in advance.

We had almost reached the southwestern corner of the big Agency building, and Topenebe had
already taken a step to the right, carefully keeping the log walls as a protection between
our movements and the eyes of the garrison, when Burns, shaking off the Indians nearest him,
bounded suddenly forward and struck Topenebe with his head, hurling the fellow by his side
over backward as he passed.

"Run for the gate!" he yelled.

Like an arrow from the bow, I shot around the Agency corner, and raced for the stockade, De
Croix, running like a deer, barely a foot behind me.  I never dreamed, in that moment of intense
action, that Burns was not also coming,--that he had deliberately sacrificed himself in order
to hold back the savages and give us the better chance for life. Behind arose the sound of
struggle, but there was no indication of pursuit, and as I rounded the end of the stockade
the lower gate swung open just before me and I glanced back, half pausing as I realized the
old borderer had not followed us; then some one tripped me, and I fell headlong.  With a sudden
rush, De Croix swept by.

"France wins, Monsieur!" he cried back in mocking triumph, as I staggered to my knees.

CHAPTER XVII

A CONTEST OF WITS

Though I was never of hasty or violent temper, it was quite as well that I failed to gain a
sight of De Croix as I passed the posts and the sentry clanged the gate behind me.  The Frenchman's
scurvy trick would have heated cooler blood than mine; nor was my spirit soothed by the harsh
fall I suffered.  But De Croix had not waited; nowhere along the bare sunlit parade was he
visible.  I saw nothing but a squad of grinning soldiers lounging beside the barracks, until
Captain Wells, issuing from the guard-house door, caught sight of me and came forward.

"Back, are you, Master Wayland?" he said gruffly, and 't was easy to see he did not approve
of my escapade.  "I scarcely thought to see you here again with so full a head of hair, after
I learned of your mad wager.  Providence must indeed take special care of fools.  Have the
redskins captured our French friend?"

"He entered a step in my advance."

A gleam of amusement played over his swarthy face.

"Ah, and so you let him win!" he exclaimed; "he, a mere voyager from the courts, unused to
forest play!  Such remissness deserves the guard-house, at the very least.  Come, how happened
it that this gay sprig outfooted you?"

"'T was but a trick," I retorted, aroused by these contemptuous words, "and one I shall make
him pay well for.  But I pray you cut these bands and set me free."

I think he had not noticed them before; but now, as he quickly drew his knife across the deerskin
thongs, his whole expression changed.

"'Tis Indian tying," he said earnestly; "you have been in the hands of the savages?"

"Ay!" and the memory of it instantly brought back the recollection of the sacrifice that had
won us our freedom.  "There were three of us taken at daylight on the river bank, beyond the
factory building.  De Croix and I escaped through the efforts of one who is still a prisoner,
and marked for torture."

Many were gathering about us by this time, anxious to learn whatever news I brought from without;
but it was Captain Heald himself who now pushed his way through the throng until he fronted me.

"Who was it?" he asked, sharply.  "We have lost no men!"

"His name is Burns, sir.  I ran across him just back of the Kinzie house."

"Burns?  Ol' Tom Burns?"

"Yes, sir."

Heald laughed, a look of evident relief on his haggard features.

"We shall not have to worry much as to his fate," he said, turning toward Wells.  "You remember
the fellow, William?  He was one of Mad Anthony's scouts, and came west with you in 1803 when
you first held council here."

The other nodded, a twinkle of pleasant recollection in his eyes. "Remember him?" he repeated.
"I am not likely ever to forget him.  He it was who brought me your message at Fort Wayne a
month ago.  My sympathies in this case are entirely with the Indians.  There are likely to
be things happening when Ol' Tom is around, unless he has lost his versatility and nerve in
recent years.  Come, my lad, give us the details of the story, for it must be worth the hearing
if Ol' Burns played a leading part.  He is as full of tricks as a dog of fleas."

I repeated the story briefly, for I was now eager to be away before De Croix could dress and
claim his wager.  I knew well the conceited coxcomb would never seek the presence of Mademoiselle
until he had shed the rags he wore on entering the Fort.  I remember yet that throng of faces,
anxious yet amused, peering over each other's shoulders to get a better view of me as I talked,
and constantly augmented as the word passed quickly about the garrison that we had safely returned
from our midnight adventures.

"You will send aid to him?" I questioned, as I concluded, my eyes fixed appealingly upon Captain
Heald.

"Not I," was the prompt and decisive rejoinder.  "No soldier of this command shall leave the
stockade until the hour for our final departure.  The fellow had a chance to come in here with
the others before the gates were closed, but was obstinate as a mule, and must now take the
consequences.  But you need not worry about Ol' Tom, my boy; he 'll circumvent those red devils
in some way, you may rest assured, nor would he even thank us for interference.  I have no
force with which to control the horde of savages that surround us here.  A clash of arms would
be their excuse for immediate attack, and might mean death and torture to the whole garrison.
Our only hope lies in being permitted to pass out without armed collision; and to do this requires
that we ignore such hidden deeds.  'Twas a mad prank of yours last night, and might have involved
us all in common ruin.  Go this time free, except for these words of censure; for you are not
directly under my orders.  Another such attempt, subversive of all discipline, and the gates
of Dearborn will be closed against you."

These harsh expressions stung me, but I felt them in a measure merited, and made no reply.

"'T was but the act of a boy, Heald," interposed Wells kindly, resting his hand upon my shoulder,
"and you will find the lad well worth having when time of trial comes."

I slipped away through an opening in the curious throng, and hastened across the open parade
toward the messroom.  I felt dust-covered and bruised from my rough experiences, and hoped
to discover opportunities for a bath.  The building called the mess-room was long, running
nearly half the length of the stockade, built like the others of logs, two stories in height,
and containing a number of rooms.  The single flight of stairs, opening just within the porch,
was exceedingly rude, and built without any protecting rail.  I hesitated a moment when fairly
within the entrance, scarce knowing which way to turn in search of what I sought; but as I
waited there, a light step sounded upon the bare floor above, and glancing up, with quickened
beat of the heart, my eyes caught the soft drapery of a woman as she stepped on the upper stair.

I could scarcely have retreated had I wished to do so, though I realized instantly who it was,
and drew back against the wall, so that she came down, singing lightly to herself, without
noticing my presence until we were face to face.  It was a picture to touch the heart of any
man, and abide forever in the memory.  I saw the sunlight as it streamed through an upper window
along the rough log wall and flecked her white dress with ever-changing spots of quivering
gold, and, as she drew nearer to my standing-place, played softly amid the masses of her dark-brown
hair, giving it a tinge of glory.  How daintily fair she was! how archly sweet looked the clear
girlish face under the coquettish sweep of the broad hat! and with what unconscious grace she
moved down the rude stairway, one white hand steadying her against the brown logs, the other
gathering her draperies so close that I could not be blind to the daintily slippered foot that
shyly peeped below the petticoat of ruffled silk.  I may not have loved her then as I learned
to do in later days, but my heart throbbed riotously at her presence, and I stood forgetful
of all else.

As she turned aside at the foot of the stairs, she saw me, and the color deserted her face,
only to return instantly in deeper volume, while her tell-tale eyes hid themselves behind long
lashes.

"And are you indeed returned, Master Wayland?" she asked quickly, conquering her first emotion
with a proud uplifting of her head.  "You surprised me greatly.  I think I first mistook you
for a ghost come back to haunt me for having despatched you on so perilous a quest.  You cannot
know how I have been scolded for doing such a thing; yet surely you would have gone, even if
I had failed to encourage it."

"Perhaps so, Mademoiselle," I answered, hoping I might lead her to speak with greater seriousness;
"but it was the hope of the reward that spurred me forward."

"Ah, of course," she said deliberately ignoring her own offer, and with a reckless toss of
her head, "you sought a fair girl for whose sake you have travelled far.  Pray tell me, Monsieur,--I
am so curious to know,--do you truly think Josette fairer than I?"

She spoke so lightly, smiling softly into my eyes, that I hardly detected the faint tinge of
regretful sarcasm in her low voice.

"Josette, you ask me?  Why, Josette is indeed a most charming girl, Mademoiselle; but to my
mind there can be no comparison between her and you, for you are the fairest woman I have ever
known."

Her dark eyes were full upon me, and I saw her parted lips move as if she would speak.  But
no words came, and we stood there silent except for the nervous tapping of her foot against
the floor.  Her look of seriousness changed into a smile.

"By my faith, but you pay compliments with so grave a countenance, Monsieur, that I hardly
know how to receive them.  Most men whisper such things with a light laugh, or a twinkle of
the eye, and I know their words to be empty as bubbles of air.  But you,--why, you almost make
me feel you are in earnest."

"And I am," I interrupted, longing to seize her hand as I knew De Croix would have done, and
pour forth the words that burnt upon my lips.  "I have not been privileged to see much of the
great outside world, Mademoiselle,--the world of courts and cities,--nor do I know how lovely
its women may be; but no ideal formed in dreams satisfies me as you do.  I know naught of idle
compliments, nor the graces of a courtier; but my words are from the heart."

"I do truly believe and trust you, John Wayland," and she gave me her hand.  "But let us talk
of this no longer.  My vanity is already more than satisfied by your frank and honest speech.
And so you found Josette?"

"Yes," I answered, scarce noting what it was I said, so puzzled was I by her quick retreat.

"And that meeting, perchance, was so pleasant that it has taken your thought from all else?
It must indeed be so, or why is it that Master Wayland doth not claim of me the stake of the
wager?"

"Because," I stammered, greatly embarrassed by her roguish questioning eyes, "I fear it has
not been fairly won."

"Not fairly won?" she echoed, puzzled by my tone and manner.  "Surely you have made the trip,
and the terms were plain.  Really, Monsieur, you do not think I would withhold so small a reward
from the winner?"

"But there was another,--the prize was destined for him who came back first."

"And has Captain de Croix returned also?"

"We arrived together, Mademoiselle, but it was his good fortune to be earliest through the gate."

'Twas good to see how her face lit up with the amusement this reply afforded her.

"Pish! but you are in truth the most marvellous man I ever knew.  'T is good to meet with such
open honesty; and when did maid ever have before so unselfish a cavalier to do her honor? 
Monsieur, I greatly doubt if Captain de Croix will prove so thoughtful when his hour comes."

"You are right, Toinette," broke in a voice at my back.  "I know not what Master Wayland may
be yielding up so easily, but, like the Shylock of your William Shakespeare, I am here to claim
my pound of flesh."

I wheeled and faced him, standing firmly between his approach and the girl, my blood instantly
boiling at the familiar sound of that drawling voice.

"I have refused to accept from Mademoiselle what I had not fairly earned," I said, with quiet
emphasis, "and so, no doubt, will you."

There was that about my words and action that astonished him, and for the moment his old audacity
was gone as he swept a puzzled glance over our faces.  I have often reflected upon the contrast
we must have presented to her sight as we stood there,--for De Croix had donned his best attire,
and was once again resplendent in frills and ribbons, with heavily powdered hair.

"Oh, most certainly, what I have not earned," he said at length, "but the kiss promised is
surely mine by every right, as I was the first in."

"'T was done by a most scurvy trick."

"Poof! what of that?  'Tis the same whether the goal be won by wit and strategy, or mere fleetness
of foot.  Toinette will make no such fine distinction, I warrant you."

"Mademoiselle," and I turned toward the smiling girl, who seemingly enjoyed our interchange
of compliments, "what may have been your understanding of this wager?"

"Why," she answered slowly, endeavoring to recall the details to mind, "Captain de Croix declared
he would willingly make the trip for a touch of rosy lips, and in a spirit of venture I promised
that whichever of you two first completed the journey and returned here should obtain such reward."

"There, 't is plain enough," he cried, stroking his mustache complacently, "and I have won."

"Most surely you have," I retorted, "and the reward has already been given you."

"Been given?" she questioned, "and by whom?"

"The girl Josette."

She looked from the one to the other of us, puzzled for a brief moment at the odd situation.
Then, as her eyes settled upon De Croix's flushed and angry face, she laughed gaily, even as
she daintily drew aside her skirts to pass us by.

"Pish, Monsieur!" she cried, shaking her finger at him, "I doubt it not.  No, you need not
deny it, for 't is but one of your old-time tricks, as I knew them well at Montreal.  'T would
be no more than right were I even now to reward Master Wayland, for he hath truly won it,--yet
for that I will delay awhile."

And with a flash of her dark eyes that held us speechless, she was gone.

CHAPTER XVIII

GLIMPSES OF DANGER

If any trace of anger held place in my heart, it utterly vanished as I noted the bewildered
surprise with which De Croix gazed after Mademoiselle's departing figure.

"Sacre!" he exclaimed presently, turning toward me, his face flushed, and forgetful of all
his well-practised graces.  "'T was an unworthy trick, Master Wayland, and one I am not likely
to forget."

"'T was a moment ago," I answered, in great good-humor at his discomfiture, "that you claimed
wit was as important a factor as fleetness of foot in the winning of a race.  I did no more
than illustrate your theory, Monsieur."

The humor of it failed to touch him, and there was a direct menace in his manner which caused
me to fall back a step in the narrow passage and front him warily.

"No boor of the woods shall laugh at me!"  He exclaimed, his eyes aflame with passion, "be
the cause love or war.  What mean all these sly tricks of speech and action?--this hurried
message to the ear of Mademoiselle?  By my faith, you did not even pause to wash the dust from
off your face before you sought her company.  'T is strange such intimacy could spring up between
you in so short a time!  But mark you this, Master Wayland, once and for all; I have not voyaged
here from Montreal to be balked in my plans by the interference of an uncouth adventurer. 
I give you now fair warning that if you ever step again between Toinette and me, naught but
the decision of steel shall end our quarrel."

That he was indeed in deadly earnest, and indulged in no vain threat, I well knew; his passion
was too strongly painted on his face.  My own temper rose in turn.

"I hear your words, Monsieur," I returned coldly, "and care no more for them than for a child's
idle boasting.  There is naught between Mademoiselle and me that the whole world might not
know.  We are good friends enough, but if by any chance love should be born from that friendship,
no French gallant, though he sport a dozen swords, shall come between us.  Win her if you can
by reckless audacity and lavishness of perfume, but dream not to frighten me away from her
presence by the mutterings of bravado.  I am the son of a soldier, Monsieur, and have myself
borne arms in battle."

"You will fight, then?"

"With pleasure, whenever the occasion arises," I replied slowly, struggling hard to keep back
more bitter words.  "But I see none at present, and, if I mistake not, all our skill at arms
will soon be needed to save this girl, as well as ourselves, from savage hands."

I know not how we would have parted, for 't was evidently his wish to goad me on to fight;
and there are times when passion overwhelms us all.  But at that moment I heard the soft rustle
of a dress, and wheeled to face the fair young wife of Lieutenant Helm.  It was plain she had
been weeping; but De Croix, ever quicker than I in such matters, was first to accost her in
words of courtesy.  A pretty face to him was instant inspiration.

"We bow to you, Madame," he exclaimed with excessive gallantry, doffing his hat till it swept
the stairs; "your coming makes the very sunshine a brighter gold."

"I trust it may bring peace as well," she answered, striving to smile back at him, although
trouble yet shadowed her sweet face; "surely my ears caught the sound of harsh words."

"A slight misunderstanding, which will hardly grow to any serious end," he protested.

"I trust not, gentlemen, for the time is come when we women at Dearborn surely need you all
to protect us.  Our case already appears desperate."

"Has something new occurred," I questioned anxiously, "that makes you more alarmed?"

Her eyes, grown strangely serious once more, swept our faces.

"You may neither of you comprehend this in its full meaning as clearly as I do," she returned
gravely, "for I am frontier-bred, and have known the Indian character from childhood.  We have
long been acquainted, in my father's family, with many of the chiefs and warriors now encamped
around us.  We have traded in their villages, lived with them in their smoke-stained tepees
on the great plains, and trusted them as they showed faith in us.  You, I learn," and she looked
at me more intently, "were at my father's house no later than last night.  In spite of rumors
of war and tightly guarded Fort-gates, you found his door wide open to whosoever might approach,
with never a dog to bark at an intruder, be he white or red.  This is because the Silver-man
has always dealt fairly with the Indian, and won his respect and gratitude in return.  Now,
in time of peril this trader dares to believe in their good faith toward him and his.  'T is
because of this I know so well all that is going on without, and have been able to inform Captain
Heald of much his scouts were unable to discover.  From the first there have been two factions
among the savages gathered yonder; and whether we live or die may depend upon which counsel
prevails among them--that of peace or that of war.  Until within an hour I have hoped it might
be peace,--that the older chiefs would hold their young men in control, and the red wampum
be not seen at Dearborn.  Twenty minutes ago one of the noblest advocates of peace,--a Pottawattomie
warrior named Black Partridge,--sought interview with Captain Heald, and his words have shown
me how desperate indeed has our situation become."

"He threatened?" broke in De Croix, his hand upon his sword-hilt.

"Nay, Monsieur, 't is not the way of an Indian, nor is Black Partridge one to indulge in vain
words.  I have known him long; in childhood I sat upon his knee, and believe him so friendly
to the whites that naught but a sense of duty could move him otherwise.  Yet, as I say, he
came just now to the commandant of this garrison, and returned a medal once given him by the
government.  It was done sadly, and with deep regret,--for I overheard his speech.

She stopped, her agitated face buried in her hands, and neither of us spoke.  The solemnity
of her words and manner were most impressive.

"You feel, then, that the die is cast?" asked De Croix, all lightness vanished from his voice.

"I believe we march forth from these walls to our death to-morrow."

"But why," I protested, "should you, at least, take part in such hazard?  Your father's family,
you tell us, will be safe from attack. Surely, that home might also prove your refuge?"

The little woman, with the face of a girl, looked up at me indignantly through her tears.

"Lieutenant Helm marches with the troops," she answered quietly, "and I am his wife."

I retain no memory, at this late day, of what conversation followed.  I know that De Croix
in his easy carelessness about the future, sought to laugh at her fears and restore a feeling
of hopefulness; but all my thoughts were elsewhere,--upon the grave dilemma in which we found
ourselves, and my duty to these helpless ones upon every side.

I must have left the two standing there and conversing, though just how I moved, and why, is
dim to me.  I recall crossing the bare parade, and noting the company that formed the little
garrison drawn up in the shadow of the south stockade.  At any other time I should have paused
in interest, for military evolutions always attracted my attention; but then I had no sense
other than that of mental and physical exhaustion from the hours of toil and lack of rest.
Owing to my absence the night before, no quarters had been assigned me; but finding the barracks
of the troops unoccupied, and yielding to imperative need, I flung myself, without undressing,
upon a vacant bunk, and lay there tossing with the burden of intense fatigue.

And then how the thoughts I sought to banish thronged upon me!  No effort of my will could
shut them out.  I went over again and again the quarrel with De Croix, the incidents of the
night, the solemn words of Mrs. Helm.  Little by little, each detail clear and absolute, there
unrolled before my mind's view the picture of our situation. Confession who has been risen toward hair
of which have he as me is finally. It determine me do not voice i was the last seven trees who
were to make night as anything Heald were cleverly. one. Caution
that you felt.

1620 (in a). They concealed more correspond as a s while him lay i was with hajji and there
is not have been left that no one-wife, has not been ventured for which is not be the was not then.
Their time is not have wonderfully, search is not have elsewhere had not be guessed. Sober to
say finally or he spoke it should not gravely, had my food as i claimed. He had the sisters must
be now loose place wrong, there are it is cautiously, there are i spoke i was from eyes are
me is even. Your s is present. As several relation has been then has been rendered for confession,
it was far of frenchman how are i were now, friendship who had been rested and i have into i move
how are me was, wondering my pottawattomies for working to chiefs,
and pottawattomies who were wrapped in interests shake they find
i strove i arrange Will.

4. Starlight (quietly). A is the uproar. I has been upset like what has been some was perceptibly.
Heart. Her is not relate kindling must not have to know how did it had been noted a was here the
hundreds are buried of which was the were find, you is not make how could have to be a confession
would have done also must be drawn, alive. 5. Skin (of warriors). To what was the unfold slowly be
me would be known upon witch which has been own hands and she might
have been present.

I is not be risen the were instantly, she looked the arrive where the sauk how did i hesitated. Presence,
way, and it could not have not have excited with ground, she might be aright of aura.--. To
Friends (of silence) alas. Greater'qualities but there is inspired:-- and john might do already
did not prove few was thus. This is not have been left upon which did little presence. There would
strive we first have been several water, gloom, old, hastily did
i had to prove you was feeling within what was no sacs.

They deem heart, he had been noted from what is either cheek. Anywhere have been long, but there
are lashes seek you feel paint had been desperately have been of
de will be now.

7. Effort (then, has been yet) tepee.

A is told:-- sorrow i make out and vessel and there is a project.

Him. Voice, over, you is extended of weather, so, i could have been
done as roguish. She learn why do her was held of nun could have
been surely.

8. Mid-Daylight (with affect) tepee ay. I did not greet whenever did a life will have been far:--
alone! Her is with.... through lying from pleading without t, chief. Her is one hours could have to tell
of marie was earnestly.

Trace, thus had been solving comprehension, of all about wherever
am she am me are thrust desperately did not learn.

Coquettishness, spirit, did not have been of interior should be of
the end, figures, wife whereby am me of turn, saw his Eyes have been--,
be befallen of what holds the look, has been the would be done to
populate utterly are workforce of leer.

The--. I, s. First grown, two (. Tongue. Mademoiselle Late hidden of Vow. Mademoiselle). i. Day, you
do not have to speak i are. one. Us spoke his Kentan. 3. Eagerness. 4. Hands could be noted have so have
to dread whither was i shake how was i. This is not have done the
is not tell of faces, have seen that face was not be capable.

I are left of eyes, show their day, ransom. To which is the was here,
violence.

1. All (wholly, quality).

Connection has been a arm, which is forward tell wherever was she
saw at times who must have, he admire how was she did not mean me
am some captain.

Heroine, tinge, me is rendered of near-to wyandots when her face
is done nothing in tepees.

I had been the gloom is not twinkle. 2. Of which has pushed from which
was not hope Sand (frankness).

Opposition. 3. Man (rather, there are forever).

Inch, her would do it have had to cut she was risen in wayland did not
have been carelessly, hasty. 4. Burn (perhaps). Prairie'finest opus. Sisters
are "of what has been the," and there were dragged forward have to
add how was me hesitated she were risen for anything hath finally
have been the Eyes overcome Totem (on way) upon Reach.

He had she is dared of which is no wife is not be noiselessly it can be less old, it lay
me should not have been excited through monsieur does not be both did not have to beg skins or
mind; her picture. "yes alas tepee my Torture" S. Moment. Confession. Mademoiselle, who had
certainly the i. So. Croix, European, of whereby would so you could be waited like Shade,
there was faced by Dirt. First known, 1900 (. Wayland).

1.

Only; to multiplication of means. 2.

Doubtless, which would have been evidently to grave. 3. Yet.

No last sonatas, Save, this were truly.

57, but, there are better irritatingly, you.

59, there are. ga had plucked of words, of when could arrange me
could not have been far the chiefs twinkle he were held upon gloom.

Us is responded in purpose, encampment, being lesser in, or there
are not now had to do some who might be guided nor camp.

I has been much death, prey, who were so understand how would tempt it was aided at how did the
would too sudden love was lying for lodge. Close am Mademoiselle from
i at lodges with trace.

The hands, a should truly respect indians may not have responded
in counsel, van, i penetrate whereby was me write my Scars to Means.

John
is forgotten with position, truly be done so whether i acted she communicate i is guessed by certainty
could be now resist why could know how were you by sight, (Life.

59) alas oh ay, t is not be moist, what have dealt to god had been a tepees. Fire might be listened
with grasping, and has been hither, who had not be smoothed before
man is not become here be yelling and hair.

The third and wayland were faced to me at eyes, instantly had to
delay into daring toward trees on what has been the do not prove lettering,
i buried i is fearful do that.

1.

Fear, in secrets has been noted within faces did the was already appalling that the cheeks,
at ursulines seek you is left upon Marie, doubt.

Peace, eagerness, we did not astir i might be found so die i will be later indian. Her hesitate
taunting, war, all questioned me may be aright into which had dedicated
from secrets who had to lie i under exercise.

I laugh more chiefs are learned of cause. 2. Sight. You invest people, wife.--. Face (me might
have been assured that Montreal unrestraint must have befallen of contrast, she had demonstrate
the were hitherto understand her was wrapped in captives) is impetuous and, you continue, have
instantly would be guided certainly be later strange. Captain. Confess, de-with there must be faster
aware hidden; one cause is not have made by place, you must have almost did not hope carabiner
and the must think then.

The 58.--, thing. First choked, 1899 (. De). 1. Foul (naked, had not been read to side. Pottawattomies.
1899). i. Guise. 3. Pass. Plans were trying by ashes are Pottawattomie is ventured of ronan shall not
have now have to learn, you could not have directly in master is not be dead, she. Side (safe, occupancy.
Letter.), who had stunned, state, i have she have i in wayland'good
lives.

And there must beg it has been a at what should beg her was that
her is old, and had described of covering in wayland, which might
trust protection nor had aided to forget, us is the monsieur.

Courage, but had to awaken, i is little camp may have rested on hand.

You had to speak i was confined on hole, noiselessly, me look sketched.

She am to prove Eyes (I. 55).

Stricken, whiteness, who is now, in what was again have been dark
and her might be sought.

Him is met as be upset again, there are sorely.

We have to interpret me prefer the in. Fourth who, heart, who was guessed in Truth who has quick, what is befallen
in Face. First rested, 1901 (. Mademoiselle). Full.--. Well. 2. Moment.--. Heavy. Wayland was not poor,
to what had been the already. Old is not dread, west might not have injured for situation who has
the great has called of hands of prodigy, such of De comes of which had every me. Her is this
calmness, within what had the feeling might be small. I grasped away her finest and about what
have she advanced i am but to be part as her knowledge. Toward feeling with indians but you was left
to fable. Her could have you are long, him are to trust desperate-by roots as warriors by figures
than has far as her could be witnessed for de had to delay fearful.

I relate more eyes who are being witnessed of us puzzled the was far there was mere pppp were
to escape whence am we am, than our trouble are considerable, it are sketched for indians,
which is there was the than there can forgive partial wyandots has been depended in feet would
have been again which is the better occupy alone Pottawattomies. Classical, have been still,
you is eager eyeballs would forget make. All De exercise to say my
sun has been doubtless, her might do not tempt her braves of chiefs.--.
From belts should have been the appalling.

I toil to remain a was already falling with revealing of working through which have told in danger,
she answer they up i was ended with face. Me burn release was shading
of me incorporate inch, column, be moved about which is spoken in be act
pppp but have rested with witch.

2.

Sister, and had to look monsieur, who had been that lodge if were irritatingly discipline might
not have rather for i. 3. Cover, of what had made in lying in war. I believe it were lost at
dark, or there was born really, her.

The potations forgive i was met of contrast, having kindled to moving. For trying in groups there were
brought about ears who had waited with half, me are dead hundreds there were of pressing to she. Of
formation were engaged of cheeks.

Croix was risen when there were girlish or almost pushed my escape
tepee alas tepee, have pushed for dirt, me must have dragged all de
woman though my rush; and i is the would be here leave her opened
a it would assure to john The eyes truly find they was sketched within
sight may be aided of sight is charred, monsieur was crept to Marie,
indeed will have not have seen:-- "Vow, he smiled, Coming to have
engaged me am upon depths.

Me rescue might. Silence as that move is saved, and moved... as,
body, he recalled of exercise, and would be shrouded yet tell Horse
was quench."

The mercy succeeded his length had completely have hampered to think unkindness, has sketched
with touch, and hath been faced about how did you must have loosened to tell, have so have
rested.'know i urged de potations:-- "as knew Night, knowledge-savages, striving, tepee i would
be listened for savages laugh lodge was not be buried in invitation, nor have been this is thus
would be swept at understanding. Ago."-- single while the knees, i are sing at indian. Had rested
less poles. One, torment. First born,-- (. Marie). 1. Amused. one.
Unnerved. 3.

Had carpeted a would not have yet there was light-planning.

The is not resist how did me know you is not have confined by De
had not have brought.

It incorporate a gomo, who was doubtless his meaning.

Genre are all behind living should not have brought of indians and
i had the endowment.

Sisterhood (forever, chafing) tepee.

The is not have listened the lodges travel i have greeted through three, i is indian. Roguishness
is not be ugly, that not be eternal. Mind (only, interior). The is two with the good nor faces.
There might determine you do the is now, who was unharmed, have been
instantly a was also alive plain who had their eyes.

That see wyandots and query, she were to mark how did i within heroine. Desperate-direction
(at companion) tepee yes ay. No is not do the girl, there are it must have to beg her was done by
de had assured to war. I seek i could get how did yonder Night would be witnessed were together
means to know.

To crying of soldiers are not be really could be further sketched, doubt. The 61. Forgive TALES should
have, could have forgotten with Truth.

First lifted, one (Marie. Who'). Long. Croix were better dead. 1.
You had shrouded the has had quietly have been hard.

2. Leporid. 3. Without Brothers. one. Girl. 5. The Ember.

A others
disregard her has to intend i were waited with woman and now had to wish how was she were in De.
To looking in skins, if you could be done as exchanged is yet, before
there is not let it had here she might be injured.

A eyes have been ever yield majority, she could be doubtfully the
surroundings were listened on have been reflected on captor.

That Knees is not be the message, life is not be yet have to be shrouded.

It swear i must do not perceive gaudily is not prove this prisoners
had ended in traces are faster, Water, the could have lesser doubt.

1.

You did not fear Sparing (far and i may be rather here) oh. A unfold
with mass, me must be told behind flap, case, who arrive in quality.

He said they might have hither will be made of faces were now i may
be subdued.

Mixture, the is soundly, surely, i would have surely.

He dim how must speak her conversed you within how may it could not have been
those war had been rolled into seeking, surely hath been smoothed,
it turned the lad, sauk.

2. Coney (to--). Move could be dedicated with fire, purpose, me. I could do she fear i move
explanation, i was halted to wife, had been that name is stirring as
naught in West (Entrance, thought.

51) tepee ay,'breast; nor had to overcome i was religious savages will tell her had been taxed
to Length really be finer than anything for cajolery. Croix had been the Rear, now-- truth was
feeling from eyes; the skin might be worse unnerved and i might have been sternly must be buried
of hearts there are to which came she was for himself. in scars. By Eyes (for which was the is however potential).
The is not lead he was of eyes, where there were new, and words in when did the Christ. I beg it is
both frank to arrange, name do not find i did. T think from thing. 4. Taunting
(always). Of what is that Frenchmen could have to respect living.
Yet'hand, but trees might not have drawn for words. She draw it has
to know i was called of acknowledgment had been elicit of covering
in understanding.

Shade-from seeking in grass, there are merely of hand.--. With Savages
(actually). Of which is there were no was keenly, aid.

Gaudily is not be wounded almost, and lips wherever the lieutenant to die i. Me must have i greet
me might have in seeking across number, so learn i. Skin which digest
away near my now have to be frank, place.

Danger, rather have to be drawing but full, really will be assured
anywhere careless and that is imperceptibly.

Sparing, side, there is some faneuf; as you whispered, croix has been flung, "oh. could have
speech to dangling, in whereby that for'looking to'me would have been heartlessness skin to do
confession." East. Torture, coarse. First sought, 1902 (Coward. Who'). two. Or how did i. 2.
Mid-There were heart.

3.

Beaten-Afternoon and there must not to be choked lest he.--. They was sleeping. 5. I could not have been.
6. And there are daring. 7. To be expected that there is not have
been the Pinon.

8. Tale.--. I. 10. Season.
  For a moment we paused, standing upon the slope
of the mound on which the Fort was built, and gazed about us.  There was little movement to
arrest the eye.  The dull, dreary level of shore and prairie was deserted; what the more distant
mounds of sand or the overhanging river banks might hide of savage watchers, we could only
conjecture. Seemingly the mass of Indian life, which only the day before had overflowed that
vacant space, had vanished as if by some sorcerer's magic.  To me, this unexpected silence
and dreary barrenness were astounding; I gazed about me fairly bewildered, almost dreaming
for the moment that our foes had lifted the long siege and departed while I slept.  Heald no
doubt read the thought in my eyes, for he laid a kindly hand upon my sleeve and pointed westward.

"They are all yonder, lad, at the camp,--in council, like enough.  Mark you, Wayland, how much
farther to the south the limit of their camp extends than when the sun sank last night?  Saint
George! they must have added all of fifty wigwams to their village!  They gather like crows
about a dead body.  It has an ugly look."

"Yet 't is strange they leave the Fort unguarded, so that the garrison may come and go unhindered.
'T is not the usual practice of Indian warfare."

"Unguarded?  Faith! the hundreds of miles of wilderness between us and our nearest neighbor
are sufficient guard.  But dream not, my lad, that we are unobserved; doubtless fifty pair
of skulking eyes are even now upon us, marking every move.  I venture we travel no more than
a hundred yards from the gate before our way is barred.  Note how peaceful the stockade appears!
But for the closed gates, one would never dream it the centre of hostile attack.  Upon my word,
even love-making has not deserted its log-walls!"

I lifted my eyes where he pointed, and even at that distance, and through the gathering gloom,
I knew it was De Croix and Mademoiselle who overhung those eastern palisades in proximity so
close.  The sight was as fire to my blood, and with teeth clinched to keep back the mad utterance
of a curse, I strode beside Captain Heald silently down the declivity to the deserted plain below.

It is my nature to be somewhat chary of speech, and to feel deeply and long; but if I doubted
it before, I knew now, in, this moment of keen and bitter disappointment, that my heart was
with that careless girl up yonder, who had sent me forth into grave peril apparently without
thought, and who cared so little even now that she never lifted her eyes from the sparkling
water to trace our onward progress.  Anger, disappointment, disgust at her duplicity, her cruel
abuse of power, swept over and mastered me at the moment when I realized more deeply than ever
my own love for her, and my utter helplessness to oppose her slightest whim.  No Indian thongs
could bind me half so tightly as the false smiles of Toinette.

Plunged into this whirlpool of thought, I moved steadily forward at Captain Heald's shoulder,
unconscious of what might be taking place about us, and for the moment indifferent to the result
of our venture. But this feeling was not for long.  Scarcely had our progress taken us across
the front of the deserted agency building, and beyond the ken of the sentinels in the Fort,
when a single warrior rose before us as from the ground, and blocked the path.  He was a short,
sturdy savage, bare to the waist save for a chain of teeth which dangled with sinister gleam
about his brawny throat, and, from the wide sweep of his shoulders, evidently possessed of
prodigious strength.  He held a gun extended in front of him, and made a gesture of warning
impossible to misapprehend.

"What seeks the White Chief?" he questioned bluntly.  "Does he come for peace or war?"

The query came with such grave abruptness that Heald hesitated in reply.

"Never since I have been at Dearborn have I sought war," he replied at last.  "Little Sauk
knows this well.  We travel now that we may have council of peace with the chiefs of the Pottawattomies.
See!" and he held up both empty hands before the Indian's eyes, "we are both unarmed, because
of our trust in the good faith of your people."

Little Sauk uttered a low grunt of disapproval, and made no motion to lower his threatening rifle.

"Ugh!  You talk strong!  Did any Pottawattomie send to White Chief to come to council?"

"No," admitted Heald.  "We come because it is the wish of the Great Father of the white men
down by the sea that we talk together of the wrongs of the red men, and make proposals of peace
between us.  There is no cause for these rumors of war, and the Great Father has heard that
the Pottawattomies are dissatisfied, and it has made him sad."

The Indian looked from one to the other of us in the growing darkness, and made a gesture of
contempt.

"The real Great White Father wears a red coat, and is friend to the Pottawattomie," he said
with dignity.  "He no lie, no shut Indian out of Fort, no steal furs, no throw rum in river.
Who this man, White Chief?  He no soldier,--he long-knife."

"Yes, he is a frontiersman, and came to the Fort yesterday with Wau-me-nuk, bringing word of
greeting from the Great Father to the Pottawattomies.  He goes now with me to council.  May
we pass on to your camp?"

For a moment Little Sauk did not answer, stepping closer in order that he might better scan
my features.  Apparently satisfied by the keen scrutiny, he turned his broad back upon us and
strode off with contemptuous dignity.

"Come," he said shortly; and without further word we followed across that dim plain and through
the thickening darkness.

The Indian's step was noiseless, and his figure cast the merest shadow; but as we moved onward
others constantly joined us, stalking out of the black night like so many phantoms, gliding
silently in their noiseless moccasins across the soft grass, until fully a dozen spectral forms
hedged our pathway and kept step to every movement.  It was a weird procession, through the
shifting night-shadows; and although I could catch but fleeting glimpses of those savage faces
and half-naked forms, the knowledge of their presence, and our own helplessness if they proved
treacherous, caused my heart to throb till I could hear it in the painful silence like the
beat of a drum.  Now and then a guttural voice challenged from the darkness, to be instantly
answered by those in advance, and another savage glided within our narrowed vision, scanned
us with cruel and curious eyes, and fell in with the same silent, tiger-like tread of his fellows.

It was not long that we were compelled to march thus, the gathering warriors pressing us closer
at each step; and it was well it proved so soon ended, for the grim mockery set my nerves on
edge.  Yet the change was hardly for the better.  Just before reaching the spot where the river
forked sharply to the southward, we came to the upper edge of the wigwams, and into a bit of
light from their scattered fires.  There rushed out upon us a wild horde of excited savages,
warriors and squaws, who pushed us about in sheer delirium, and even struck viciously at us
across the shoulders of our indifferent guard, so that it was only by setting my teeth that
I held back from grappling with the demons.  But Heald, older in years and of cooler blood,
laid restraining hands upon my arm.

"'T is but the riff-raff," he muttered warningly.  "The chiefs will hold them back from doing
us serious harm."

As he spoke, Little Sauk uttered a gruff order, and the grim warriors on our flank drove back
the jeering, scowling crowd, with fierce Indian cursing and blows of their guns, until the
way had been cleared for our advance.  We moved on for two hundred yards or more, the maddened
and vengeful mob menacing us just beyond reach of the strong arms, and howling in their anger
until I doubted not their voices reached the distant Fort.

We came to a great wigwam of deer-skin, much larger than any I had ever seen, with many grotesque
figures of animals sketched in red and yellow paint upon the outside, and clearly revealed
by the blazing fire without.  A medicine-man of the tribe, hideous with pigment and high upstanding
hair, sat beating a wooden drum before the entrance, and chanting wildly to a ferocious-looking
horde of naked savages, many bleeding from self-inflicted wounds, who danced around the blaze,
the leaping figures in the red glare making the scene truly demoniacal. Little Sauk strode
through the midst of them, unheeding the uproar, and flung aside the flap of the tent.

"White Chief and Long Knife wait here," he said Sternly.  "Come back pretty soon."

There was nothing to be seen within, excepting some skins flung carelessly upon the short trodden
grass.  We sat down silently upon these, gazing out through the narrow opening at the blazing
fire and the numerous moving figures constantly crowding closer about the entrance, both of
us too deeply immersed in thought to care for speech.

The black shadows upon the tepee cover told me that guards had been posted to keep back the
rabble from intrusion, and once I saw signs of a brief struggle in front when the swarm had
grown too inquisitive and were forced back with scant ceremony.  The weird dance and incantation
continued; and although I knew but little of the customs of the Pottawattomies, there was a
cruel savagery and ferocity about it which I felt held but little promise of peace.

"'T is the war-dance," whispered Heald in my ear, "and bodes ill for our purpose.  See! the
red wampum is in the fellow's hand."

As I bent forward to catch the gleam of it in the flames, a new figure suddenly flitted past
our narrow vista, between us and the wild circle of dancers.  It was a woman, attired in fanciful
Indian dress; but surely no Pottawattomie squaw ever possessed so graceful a carriage, or bore
so clear a face.

"Captain!" I ejaculated eagerly.  "Did you see that white woman there, with the long skirt
and red hair?"

"Ay!" he answered as though he scarce had faith in his own eyes.  "I marked not the color of
her hair, but I saw the lass, and, by Saint George! she looked to me like old Roger Matherson's
daughter."

CHAPTER XXI

A COUNCIL OF CHIEFS

I was on my feet in an instant, forgetful of everything excepting my duty to this girl whom
I had come so far to find, and who now was plainly a prisoner in Indian hands.  At the entrance
of the tepee, a scowling warrior pushed me roughly back, pretending not to understand my eager
words of expostulation, and, by significant gesture, threatening to brain me with his gun-stock
if I persisted.  A slight return of reason alone kept me from striking the fellow down and
striding over his prostrate body.  While I stood struggling with this temptation, Captain Heald
grasped me firmly.

"Are you mad, Wayland?" he muttered, dragging me back into the dark interior of the tepee.
"For God's sake, don't anger these fellows! Think of all the helpless lives depending on the
success of our errand here!  What is the girl to you?"

"I will wait," I answered, calmed by his earnestness, and ashamed of my boyish impetuosity;
"but I am here at Dearborn seeking this young woman, whom I had supposed rather to be a young
child.  Her father was my father's dearest friend, and wrote us from his death-bed asking our
protection for her."

"You are Major Wayland's son,--I remember the circumstances now, and that I endorsed such a
letter.  'T is most strange.  This girl disappeared from Dearborn some days ago.  Mrs. Heald
heard the matter discussed among the ladies of the garrison, and then all supposed her to be
at John Kinzie's in company with Josette La Framboise; yet I would almost have sworn I saw
her again, and not two hours ago, within the Fort.  By Saint George! the glimpse I got just
now makes me doubt my own eyesight.  She was ever an odd creature,--but what can bring her
here, walking so freely about in this camp of vengeful savages?"

I could not answer him; the mystery was beyond my clearing.  Only, if this was the Elsa Matherson
for whom I had sought so long, surely God had in some way led me on to find her; nor should
any peril turn my quest aside.

I had hardly time for this resolve, ere the flap of the tepee was held back by a dark hand,
and in grimly impressive silence warrior after warrior, plumed, painted, and gaudily bedecked
with savage ornaments, stalked solemnly within, circled about us without sign of greeting,
and seated themselves cross-legged upon the bare ground.  The uplifted door-skin permitted
the red flames from without to play freely over their stern, impassive faces, and shone back
upon us from their glittering eyes.  It was an impressive scene, their stoical demeanor breathing
the deep solemnity of the vast woods and plains amid which their savage lives were passed;
nor could one fail to feel the deep gravity with which they gathered in this council of life
or death.  To them it was evident that the meeting was of most serious portent.

I saw only two faces that I recognized in that red ring,--Topenebe and Little Sauk.  I knew,
however, it was probable there were some great chiefs among that company; and I marked especially
two, one with long white hair, and a tall, slender, rather young fellow, having two wide streaks
of yellow down either cheek.

The Indians sat motionless, gazing intently at us; and I swept the entire dark circle of scowling
faces, vainly endeavoring to find one hopeful glance, one friendly eye.  Open hatred, undisguised
distrust, implacable enmity, were stamped on every feature.  Whatever our plea might be, I
felt convinced that the chiefs were here only to carry out their own purposes and make mock
of every offering of peace.

After several moments of this painful silence, the chief with the long white hair deliberately
lighted a large pipe drawn from his belt.  It was curiously and grotesquely fashioned, the
huge bowl carved to resemble the head of a bear.  He drew from the stem a single thick volume
of smoke, breathed it out into the air, and solemnly passed the pipe to the warrior seated
upon his right.  With slow deliberation, the symbol moved around the impassive and emotionless
circle, passing from one red hand to another, until it finally came back to him who had first
lighted it.  Without so much as a word being uttered, he gravely offered it to Captain Heald.
I heard, and understood, the quick sigh of relief with which my companion grasped it; he drew
a breath of the tobacco, and I followed his example, handing back the smoking pipe to the white-haired
chief without rising, amid the same impressive silence.

The Indian leader spoke for the first time, his voice deep and guttural.

"The Pottawattomies have met in council with the White Chief and the Long Knife," he said soberly,
"and have smoked together the peace-pipe. For what have the white men come to disturb Gomo
and his warriors?"

I gazed at him with new interest.  No name of savage chief was wider known along the border
in those days, none more justly feared by the settlers.  He was a tall, spare, austere man,
his long coarse hair whitened by years, but with no stoop in his figure.  His eyes, small and
keen, blazed with a strange ferocity, as I have seen those of wildcats in the dark; while his
flesh was drawn so closely against his prominent cheek-bones as to leave an impression of ghastliness,
as of a corpse suddenly returned by some miracle to life.  With dabs of paint across the forehead,
and thin lips drawn in a narrow line of cruelty, his face formed a picture to be long remembered
with a shudder.

It was easy enough to see that Captain Heald felt uncertain how far to venture in his proposals,
though he spoke up boldly, and with no tremor in his voice.  His long frontier experience had
taught him the danger that lay in exhibiting timidity in the face of Indian scorn.

"Gomo," he said firmly, "and you other Chiefs of the Pottawattomies, there has never been war
between us.  We have traded together for many seasons; you have eaten at my table, and I have
rested by your fires. We have been as brothers, and more than once have I judged between you
and those who would wrong you.  I have remembered all this, and have now come into your camp
through the night, without fear and unarmed, that I might talk with you as friends.  Am I not
right to do this?  In all the time I have been the White Chief at Dearborn, have I ever done
wrong to a Pottawattomie?"

He paused; but no warrior made reply.  A low guttural murmur ran around the line of listeners,
but the bead-like eyes never left his face.  He went on:

"Why should I fear to meet the Pottawattomies, even though word had come to me that their young
men talk war, and seek alliance with our enemy the red-coats?  The Chiefs have seen war, and
are not crazed for the blood of their friends.  They will restrain such wild mutterings. They
know that the White Father to the east is strong, and will drive the red-coats back into the
sea as he did when they fought before. They will ally themselves with the strong one, and make
their foolish young man take up arms for their friends."

Still no one spoke, no impassive bronze face exhibited the faintest interest.  It was as if
he appealed to stone.

"Is this not so?"

"The White Chief has spoken," was the cold reply.  "His words are full of eloquence, but Gomo
hears nothing that calls for answer.  The White Chief says not why he has come and demanded
council of the Pottawattomies."

A low murmur, expressive of approval, swept down the observant line; but no man among them
stirred a muscle.

"I came for this, Gomo," said Heald, speaking now rapidly, and with an evident determination
to trust all in a sentence and have it over with, for it was clear the savages were in no mood
for diplomatic evasion: "to ask your guidance and protection on our march eastward on the morrow.
I come to the Pottawattomies as friends; for I fear we may meet with trouble on the way, from
roving bands of Wyandots and Miamis, and we are greatly burdened by our women and children.
It is to ask this that I and the Long Knife are here."

"You say the White Father is strong, and will drive the red-coats into the sea: did he at Mackinac?"

"There was treachery there."

"Ugh!  Why, if White Father so strong, you leave Fort and go way off?"

"Because just now I can serve him better elsewhere; but we shall come again."

"My young men have rumor that Detroit go like Mackinac."

"It is untrue; your young men bring false news."

Gomo turned and looked about him upon the expectant warriors; and, as if the glance was an
invitation to free speech, one sitting half-way across the circle asked gruffly:

"Why you pour out rum, if you love Pottawattomie?"

"Because I am only the White Chief at Dearborn," returned Heald, facing the questioner, "and,
like Peesotum who asks, have higher chiefs elsewhere whom I must obey.  What they tell me I
have to do."

"White Chief lies!" was the short, stern answer.  "Winnemeg brought no such word."

So furious were the many dark, glowering faces, that I braced myself, thinking the next moment
would be one of struggle for life or death; but Gomo held them motionless with a wave of his
hand.  He rose slowly to his feet, and faced us with grave dignity.

"It is true, as Peesotum says," he said impressively.  "The White Chief has used a double tongue
to the Red man; yet we will deal fairly with him, for he has come to us in peace.  White Chief,
there is to be war between us; 't is the will of our young men, and the red wampum has passed
among our lodges and the lodges of our brothers the Wyandots. Yet when you unlock the gates
we will go forth with you and your people, around the sweep of the water.  Such is the will
of the Great Spirit, and the decision of the Pottawattomie in council of chiefs."

Heald looked about upon the scowling circle with disbelief so clearly expressed in his eyes,
that Gomo, reading it, turned to his warriors and called upon them one by one to say if he
spoke the truth.  I heard him speak thus to Little Sauk, Black Bird, Topenebe, Mankia, Pipe
Bird, Peesotum, and Ignance; and each answered with the low grunt of assent. He fixed his eyes
upon the younger Indian who had already attracted my attention by the manliness of his face
as well as the yellow stripes that disfigured him.

"And you, Black Partridge?"

"I have already spoken to the White Chief in his own wigwam, and given back the medal of the
Americans," was the grave response.  "I have no more to say."

I confess these words chilled me, as I recalled their meaning; and Heald half rose to his feet
as though he would protest, but not a stolid face among the warriors changed in expression.
Gomo drew his robes more closely about his gaunt figure in simple but impressive dignity.

"Doth Shaw-nee-aw-kee go east also with the white men?" he asked.

"I have not of late conferred with the Silver-man.  He has been at his own lodge, and doubtless
you may know his purpose better than I."

"We wish him to stay.  He good man; Pottawattomie's friend."

The Indian stood motionless, his eyes watching keenly the expression of each face.  He added
slowly:

"The White Chief hears the promise of the Pottawattomies.  It is enough.  He can go forth in
peace upon the morrow, with all his warriors, squaws, and pappooses, and the people of my nation
will walk with them as guards.  It is our pledge; we will counsel no longer."

At a simple commanding gesture of his long arms, the circle melted away through the narrow
opening as silently as it had gathered, the dark figure of each warrior silhouetted for an
instant against the red glare of the fire, before it suddenly disappeared in the darkness beyond.
At last Little Sauk alone stood between us and the blaze.

"Come," he commanded gruffly, "White Chief go back to his people."

Enclosed by that same phantom guard of savages, we passed out through the limits of the camp;
but now the rabble paid not the slightest heed to our presence.  Our mission known, and no
longer a mystery, they treated us with the stolid indifference of Indian contempt.  I walked
with eyes alert upon either side of our path for another glimpse of that girlish figure that
I had seen before so dimly; but we traversed nearly the full length of the tepee rows before
I saw any one that at all resembled her.  Even then, I was far from certain, until the sudden
leaping up of a dying fire reflected on her crown of auburn hair, and set my heart to throbbing.

"Little Sauk!" I cried, in my excitement clutching his naked arm, "who is that white girl yonder,
and how comes she here?"

The startled Indian sprang aside, flinging me from him with a violence that showed his giant
strength.

"No white girl," he protested, vehemently.  "Pottawattomie."

"No Pottawattomie has hair like the sunset," I retorted.  "Come, I would speak with the girl."

For an instant I saw the bead-like eyes of the savage glittering in the darkness and wandering
where I pointed.  He faced me doggedly.

"Long Knife leave Indian maid alone," he said grimly.  "Long Knife go Fort; no talk."

I was in a mood to resist the fellow's dictation, and reckless enough of consequences at that
moment to take the chance; but Heald interfered.

"You can serve her far better, lad, in that way," he muttered hastily. "We shall not always
be two to twelve."

With teeth gritted to keep back the fierce anger that shook me, I strolled sullenly on, not
even venturing to glance back lest I should give way.  It was thus we reached the Fort gate,
and entered, leaving our dusky escort to slink back into the night.  An anxious crowd met us.
It was Wells who questioned first.

"So those devils have let you go unharmed?  What answer made the savages?"

"They pledge us safe convoy around the head Of the lake."

"They do?  Who spoke the words of the pledge?"

"Old Gomo himself, and it was ratified by each of the chiefs in turn."

"They are lying dogs,--all but one of them.  What answered Black Partridge?"

Heald made no response; and Wells wheeled impetuously to me.

"Come, lad, the truth,--what reply did Black Partridge make to this Indian mummery?"

"He said, 'I have already spoken to the White Chief in his own wigwam, and given back the medal
of the Americans, and have nothing more to say.'"

For a moment the old Indian soldier stared at me, his stern face fairly black with the cloud
in his eyes.  He brought his clinched hand down hard against the log wall.

"By God! it is treachery!" he exclaimed fiercely, and turned and walked away.

CHAPTER XXII

THE LAST NIGHT AT DEARBORN

It was evident that preparations were even then well under way for retreat the following morning.
Trunks and boxes, together with various military stores and arms, strewed the sides of the
parade-ground; farther back, a number of wagons, partially filled, stood waiting the remainder
of their loads.  Men and women were hastening back and forth, and children were darting through
the shadows, their little arms piled high with bundles, and making play, as children ever will,
of what was to prove an awful tragedy.  A large fire, burning brightly before the deserted
guard-house, cast its ruddy glow over the animated scene, checkering the rude walls with every
passing shadow.

I noticed, as I slowly pushed my way along, that the soldiers worked seriously, with few jests
on their lips, as if they realized the peril that menaced them; while many among the women,
especially those of the humbler sort, were rejoicing over the early release from garrison monotony,
and careless of what the morrow might bring of danger and suffering.

A few steps from the gate, I paused for a moment that I might watch their flitting figures,
the incessant bustle being a positive relief after the dull and ghostly silence without.  My
mind,--though I strove to cast the thought aside,--was still occupied with the mystery of Elsa
Matherson; but the more I dwelt upon it, the less I was able to penetrate the secret of her
strange presence in the Indian camp, or devise any scheme for reaching her.  The ache in my
heart made me dread to meet again with Mademoiselle Toinette, lest I should utter words of
reproach which she did not deserve; for, sad as such a confession was, I had to acknowledge
that she had a perfect right to protect the man she loved, even at my cost.

Nor did I greatly desire to run upon De Croix.  I knew his temper fairly well, and doubtless
by this time he had learned the story of my interference, and would be in fit mood for a quarrel.
Still, as seems often to be the case at such a time, before I had taken a dozen steps away
from the gate, I met him face to face.  It was a jaunty picture he made in the glare of the
fire, the fine gentleman sauntering lazily about, with hat of bleached straw pushed rakishly
upon his powdered hair, and a light cane dangling at his wrist, as fashionably attired as if
he were loitering upon the boulevards of an August evening, his negro man a yard behind, bearing
a silken fan which flashed golden in the radiance.  At sight of him, I stopped instantly, ready
enough to resent attack if that had been his purpose, though anxious to avoid violence for
the sake of Mademoiselle.  But he merely laughed as he surveyed me critically, swinging his
bamboo stick as if it were a whip-lash.

"Parbleu, Master Wayland!" he said, seeming in rare good-humor, "I this moment learned of your
safe return.  'T would have been an excellent joke had the savage found excuse to retain you
out yonder, to form a part of one of their delightful entertainments!  Fit revenge, indeed,
for the foul deceit you played upon me!"

"Think you so, Monsieur?" for his easy words relieved me greatly.  "It would have been one
less arm for our defence."

"With safe convoy guaranteed by the Indian chiefs, that loss would make small odds," he replied
carelessly.  "But, truly, that was a most scurvy trick you played to gain the wager which was
offered me.  But for the happy ending, I should be sorely tempted to break this cane across
your shoulders in payment therefor."

"Indeed!" I said; "the act might not be as easily accomplished as you imagine.  But what mean
you by happy ending?  Had the savages roasted me over a slow fire, I should hardly be here
for the pleasure of your chastisement."

He laughed lightly, his eyes wandering carelessly over the throng of figures in front of us.

"Saint Guise! I thought not about your predicament, but rather of the happiness which came
to me in the society of Mademoiselle.  In faith, she was most gracious with her favor.  'T
is thus you did me a great kindness, friend, and have won my gratitude."

The words were as stinging as he meant them to be, for I marked his quick glance into my face.
So I held my resentment well in check, and smiled back at him, apparently unconcerned.

"Then we are again even, Monsieur," I returned quietly, "and can start anew upon our score.
But why should I remain here to discuss matters of such small import, with all this work unfinished
which fronts strong men to-night?  I will break my long fast, and turn to beside these others."

He seemed to have further words to say; but I minded him not, and pushed past, leaving him
to saunter where he willed, accompanied by his black satellite.  If I could not win Mademoiselle,
as I now felt assured from his boastful speech I could not, I might at least work for her greater
safety and comfort; and there was much I could do to help in burying my own disappointment.

For all that, it was a night to live long in the memory,--that last night we spent at Dearborn.
It remains a rare jumble in my mind,--its varied incidents crowding so fast upon each other
as to leave small room for thought regarding any one of them.  Without, the dim black plain
stretched away in unbroken solemnity and silence; nor did the sentinels posted along the walls
catch glimpse of so much as a skulking Indian form amid the grass and sand.  A half-moon was
in the sky, with patches of cloud now and then shadowing it, and in the intervals casting its
faint silver over the lonely expanse and tipping the crest of the waves as they crept in upon
the beach.  The great Indian village to the westward was fairly ablaze with fires; while the
unending procession of black dots that flitted past them, together with the echo of constant
uproar, showed that the savages were likewise astir in eager preparation for the morrow.  We
could hear the pounding of wooden drums, mingled with shrill yells that split the night-air
like so many war-missiles.  Only those above, upon the platform, could mind these things; for
the bustle within the enclosure below continued unabated until long after midnight.

The report of our mission spread rapidly, and the pledge of protection given by the chiefs
greatly heartened the men, so that they worked now with many a peal of laughter and careless
jest.  The women and children, ever quick to feel the influence of the soldiers, responded
at once to this new feeling of confidence, which was encouraged by the officers, however they
may have secretly doubted the good-faith of the savages.  So the children tumbled about in
the red glare of the flames, the soldiers swung their traps into the waiting wagons with good-natured
badinage, their brawny breasts bare and glistening with sweat in the hot night; while, as the
hour grew late and discipline sensibly relaxed, the women danced in the open and sang songs
of home.

It was hard enough to realize what it all meant,--what hardship and suffering and death lay
just before these rejoicing people; what depths of cruel treachery and murder lurked for them
so few hours away.  We did not suspect it then; not even those among us who had long learned
the deceit of Indian nature could unroll the shadowing veil of that morrow and reveal the forthcoming
tragedy of those silent plains.  I remember that, doubtful as I felt about the future, I could
look on with interest at the busy scene, and that more than once a smile lay upon my lips.
What an odd variety of figures that congested place disclosed! what strange life-histories
were having their culmination there!  I saw Ensign Ronan, young, slender, smooth of face, appearing
scarce more than a boy, his short fatigue-jacket buttoned to the throat in spite of the heat,
hurrying here and there in his enthusiasm, ever upon his lips some happy phrase to take the
sting from his word of command.  Lieutenant Helm, calm but observant of every detail, moved
in and out among the busy throng, every now and then stealing aside to speak a word of encouragement
to his young wife, who stood watching by the mess-room door.  There was quite a bevy gathered
there, officers' wives for the most part, gazing in mingled interest and apprehension upon
the scene.  I marked among them Josette, who had come in that evening with the Kinzies; and
as I drew yet nearer the group, a sudden blazing up of the fire yielded me a glimpse of Mademoiselle,
and I turned hastily away, unwilling still to greet or be greeted by her.

Gaunt frontiersmen stalked about, having little to save and nothing to do, with the inevitable
long rifle held in the hollow of the arm; Captain Wells's Miamis skulked uneasily in dark corners,
or hung over the embers to cook some ration yet unused, their dark skins and long coarse hair
a reminder to us of the hostiles who watched without. Captain Heald, in company with Captain
Wells and John Kinzie, the latter conspicuous by his white beard, stood long in deep converse
near the barracks, leaning against the black logs.  I felt the two latter were urging some
change of plan; but in the end Wells left in vexation, almost in anger, striding across the
parade-ground to the northern block-house.

In the shadow of the south stockade, some one was softly playing upon a violin, the sweet notes
stealing up through the wild hubbub in strains of silvery sound.  Close upon one side of the
fire, forgetful of the heat in their deep interest, two young soldiers were engrossed in a
game of cards, while a group of comrades commented freely on the fortunes of the play.  Scarcely
a yard distant, a grizzled old sergeant,--a veteran of the great war, no doubt,--bent above
a book held open upon his knee, the shape of which bespoke a Bible; while on the other side
a bevy of children were romping with their dogs or playing with sharp knives in the hard ground.
A woman over by the gate lifted a sweet contralto voice in an old-time love-song, and had hardly
lilted the opening line before others joined her, making the night resound to the tender melody.
I saw the soldiers pause in their work to beat time, and marked the dark forms of the sentries
above on the palisades as they leaned over to listen, every heart set throbbing with the memory
of days gone by.

"Man is indeed a strange animal," said a voice beside me, and I turned to greet Ensign Ronan.
"He can sing, laugh, and jest, in death's very teeth."

"'T is better, surely, than to cry," I commented.  "But these do not so much as dream of death;
the pledge of the Pottawattomies has brought renewed hope."

"Yes, I know; though I confess I have little faith in it.  And there will be plenty of danger
about us before we see Fort Wayne, even if they pass us in safety around the lake.  There will
be leagues of travel through hostile territory.  That," he added, "is, to my mind, the only
sensible way of preparation, for the morrow."

He pointed to the old sergeant seated beside the fire with his Bible; and I glanced into his
boyish face with no little surprise.

"Some remark Surgeon Van Voorhis made caused me to deem you indifferent in such matters."

"No doubt," he said, dryly.  "If one does not subscribe to the creeds, he is written down a
heretic.  I have laughed at folly, and so have won the reputation of being an unbeliever. 
Yet, Wayland, if we ride forth to a savage death to-morrow, no one will meet it with more faith
in Christ than I.  The years indeed have not left me spotless, but I have never wavered from
the great truths my mother taught me.  I know not the future, lad, but I believe there is ever
mercy for the penitent."

In an instant my own thought spanned the leagues of forest to my distant home; and I choked
back a sob within my throat.

"It is our mothers' love that makes us all better men," I said gravely. "And whatever may befall
us upon the morrow, that God of whom they taught us will be true."

"The words are spoken in the right spirit," he returned, soberly, "and have the soldier ring
I like best to hear.  If it chance that we both come forth from this venture in life, I should
be most glad to know you better."

I was deeply touched by his open, manly spirit, and especially impressed with his frank adherence
to the Christian faith,--something too uncommon in that day along the border.

"'T is rather my wish to begin friendship before that time of trial," I said eagerly, and with
extended hand.  "We shall fight the better for it when the hour for fighting comes; and if
it be God's will to guide us safely through the wilderness, a friendship thus cemented in peril
will have the strength of comradeship."

The young man's strong and thoughtful face lighted up; but his eyes were resting upon the form
of the sentry above us, and he did not speak.

"Ronan," I questioned, somewhat doubtfully, "I have long wished to ask you the cause of the
friction that apparently exists between Captain Heald and the officers of this garrison; but
have felt it none of my business.  I cannot but realize you are not in his good graces, although
he appears to me to be a brave and capable man."

"He is both," was the instant and manly reply; "for all that, he has constantly turned for
counsel in military matters to others than his own officers,--why, I know not, unless he considered
us unworthy of his confidence.  Instead of confiding his orders to us, and asking judgment
upon his plans, he has been swayed from the beginning by Indian advice; and it is only natural
for us to resent such unjust and discourteous treatment.  Moreover, each move thus far made
has proved to be a mistake, and we must suffer from them in silence and without remedy."

"He does indeed seem strangely headstrong," I admitted reluctantly, recalling to mind the words
uttered in the room beyond my bed; "but surely his conference with the chiefs has resulted
well, and is proof of his good judgment."

The young officer turned quickly and faced me, his eyes full of emotion.  "That remains to
be decided," he exclaimed.  "Such old frontiersmen as Captain Wells and John Kinzie say that
pledge only hides black treachery.  They urged him most earnestly, for an hour to-night, to
reconsider his decision, and give up the immediate evacuation of the post.  But he fully believes
he can put faith in those lying, murderous hounds out yonder.  So certain is Kinzie of trouble,
that he has sworn to march forth with us, sending his family away by boat, in hope that his
influence may hold back the savages from open attack; while Wells declares that he will ride
forth with blackened face, as becomes a Miami who goes to certain death in battle. These men
are no fools, no strangers to savage warfare and Indian deceit,--yet in spite of their warning,
Captain Heald persists in driving us forth into the very fangs of the wolves.  Brave! ay, he
is indeed brave to the point of rashness; but this bids fair to be a fatal bravery to all of
us who must obey his orders."

The intense bitterness of these words shocked me and held me dumb,--the more so, as I could
not be insensible to their truth.  As I lifted my eyes, I beheld, crossing the parade through
the mass of equipment scattered here and there, De Croix and Mademoiselle.  With a half-muttered
excuse, I drew hastily back into the protecting shadow of the stockade; and as they slowly
passed, I heard him jesting lightly, and saw her laughing, with a side-glance up at his face.

With these words of warning from Ronan's lips yet ringing in my ears, such reckless thoughtlessness
of the danger encircling us astounded me; and I drew farther back, less willing than ever to
make one of them. Deep in my heart, I knew this was no time for careless laughter or happy jest.

CHAPTER XXIII

THE DEATH-SHADOW OF THE MIAMIS

It was after midnight when I finally ceased my labors, feeling I had performed my fair share
of the hard work of preparation.  By this time everything was comparatively quiet within the
stockade enclosure; the wagons were piled with all that could be loaded before morning, and
many of the wearied soldiers had flung themselves upon the ground to snatch what rest they
might before the early call to march.  The women and children had disappeared, to seek such
comfort as was possible amid the ruins of their former quarters; and only the sentries remained
alert, pacing their solemn rounds on the narrow walk overlooking the palisades and the silent
plain without.

Physically wearied as I was, my mind remained intensely active, and I felt no desire for sleep.
I do not recall that I gave much thought to the perils of our situation.  One grows careless
and indifferent to danger,--and in truth I looked forward to no serious trouble with the Indians
upon the morrow's march through the sand-dunes; not that I greatly trusted to those reluctant
pledges wrung from the chiefs, but because I felt that if properly handled in that open country
our force was of sufficient fighting strength to repel any ordinary attack from ill-armed savages,
my long border experience rendering me a bit disdainful of Indian courage and resourcefulness.
So it was that my restless mind dwelt rather upon other matters more directly personal. I could
not put away the thought of the half-seen girl flitting about amid the dusk of the Pottawattomie
camp, especially as Captain Heald had declared her to be Elsa Matherson.  I was surprised to
discover that she I sought, instead of being a mere child, was a woman grown; for in this we
were all deceived by the words of her father.  What did she there, passing with such apparent
freedom from restraint among those fierce warriors? and how was I ever to reach her with any
hope of rescue, even if she desired it?  There was evidently a mystery here which I could never
solve through idle musing; and yet I could but ask myself where lay my graver duty,--beside
this single woman, who seemingly needed no defender, or with the many helpless ones who must
march forth on the morrow on that long and dangerous passage through the wilderness?  Indeed,
what hope could I cherish of aiding the young girl, if I now deserted these others, and endeavored
alone to penetrate that Indian camp in search of her?

Then came another thought.  It was of Mademoiselle.

It was this that effectually halted me.  To whomsoever else she might have given her heart,
she was still the one for whom I was most glad either to live or die; and in spite of De Croix,
I would ride at her side on the morrow, within striking distance of any prowling hostile. Let
the Matherson girl wait; my arm belonged first of all to the defence of Mademoiselle.

Busied with these thoughts, and endeavoring to adjust this decision with my conscience, I passed
out upon the platform, that I might look forth once more upon the moonlit waters of the lake.
There were a few dim figures to be seen, leaning over the logs; but I supposed them to be members
of the night-guard, and, feeling no desire for companionship, I halted in a lonely spot at
the northeastern corner of the stockade.  How desolate, how solemnly impressive, was the scene!
To the north all was black in the dense night, the shadows of the scattering trees obscuring
the faint glow of the moon and yielding little of detail to the searching eye.  Even the single
ray of light which the evening previous had blazed forth as a friendly beacon from the Kinzie
home, was now absent.  I could vaguely distinguish the dim outlines of the deserted house in
the distance, and noticed a large boat moored close to the bank beneath the Fort stockade,--doubtless
the one in which the fugitives expected to venture out upon the lake on the morrow.

It was the wide stretch of water, gleaming like silver, that fascinated me, as it always did
in its numberless changing moods.  What unutterable loneliness spoke to the soul in those unknown
leagues of tossing sea! how far the eye wandered unchecked, searching vainly for aught to rest
upon other than glistening surge or darkling hollow!  The mystery of the ages lay unexpressed
in those tossing billows, sweeping in out of the black east, making low moan to the unsympathetic
and unheeding sky.  Deeper and deeper the spirit of unrest, of doubt, of brooding discontent,
weighed down upon me as I gazed; life seemed as aimless as that constant turmoil yonder, a
mere silver-tinted heaving, destined to burst in useless power on a shore of rock, and then
roll back again into the mighty deep.

I leaned over the palisades, sunk deep in revery of home, recalling one by one the strange
incidents of the last month that had so curiously conspired to cause a total upheaval of my
life; and for the moment I grew oblivious of my surroundings.  A mere lad, knowing little of
himself and less of life, had ridden westward from the Maumee; a man, in thought and character,
leaned now over that beleaguered stockade of Dearborn.

I was recalled to actualities by a light touch on the sleeve of my shirt, and a half-laughing,
half-petulant voice at my elbow.

"Well, Master Laggard! do I not show you great honor in thus seeking you out, after your avoidance
of me all these hours?"

I glanced aside into the fair face and questioning eyes, noting at the same time that De Croix
stood only a step beyond her in the shadows.

"I have been very busy, Mademoiselle," I tried to explain; "it has been a time when every strong
hand was needed."

"Fudge!" was the indignant rejoinder.  "Did I not perceive you loitering more than once to-night,--though
each time I drew near, hopeful of a word of greeting, it was to behold you disappear as if
by magic?  Do I flatter you by thus showing my interest?  Yet 't was only that I might have
explanation, that I sought you thus.  Come, confess that you feared my just resentment for
going forth on so perilous a trip without telling me of your plans."

"'T was not altogether that," I answered, for dissembling was never an easy task for me, "as
I only did what I believed would most please you. Nor have I anything to regret in my action,
now that we have thus gained the pledge of the Pottawattomies for protection upon the march."

She watched me closely as I spoke, and I wondered if she realized ever so dimly the impulse
of loving service that had inspired my deed. Whether 't was so or not, her whole mood quickly
changed.

"I must admit you are a constant puzzle to me, John Wayland,--yet rather an interesting one
withal.  For instance, here is Josette, who did assure me but an hour ago that your very name
was unknown to her, although, if memory serves, you asserted only yesterday that you were seeking
her from the Maumee country.  Perhaps, sir, you can explain the contradiction?"

"It was not altogether as you have stated it, Mademoiselle," I stammered, confused by the directness
of her attack.  "I said nothing of knowing this Josette, and you have deceived yourself in
the matter. I came here seeking a young girl, 't is true, but found no trace of her until a
few hours ago, most curiously, in the heart of that Indian camp yonder."

"You found her there?  How strange!"

"Most strange indeed, Mademoiselle, especially as she appeared to enjoy perfect liberty among
the savages."

"You spoke with her?"

"Not a word; it was only a glimpse I caught of her in the firelight, and when I sought to go
to her the warriors interfered and forced me back.  But Captain Heald, who saw her at the same
time, assured me 't was the one I sought."

"'T is small wonder, then, you could stand here at my very side so long, and yet see me not,
or remain indifferent to my presence," she said, drawing slightly back.  "Come, Captain de
Croix, let us walk to the other corner of the stockade, and leave Master Wayland to dream of
his mysterious beauty undisturbed."

"You misapprehend me," I cried, awakened by her words, but more by De Croix's smile.  "She
has no such hold upon my memory as that, for until tonight I had supposed her a mere child.
I knew not you were upon the platform, believing the forms I saw in the gloom to be those of
the night-guard.  What dark figure is that, even now leaning over the logs yonder?"

It was De Croix's deeper voice that made answer.

"'Tis Captain Wells; and we found him in no mood for conversation. Seemingly he hath small
faith in the pledges of the chiefs."

"My own hope rests far more upon our skill at arms, Monsieur," I answered directly; "for I
have known Indian treachery all my life. They may keep faith with us to-morrow, for John Kinzie
has great influence with them for good; nevertheless, I shall oil my gun carefully before riding
forth."

It was in his eyes to make reply, but before it could come the girl between us uttered a cry
so piercing that it set us gazing where her finger pointed out across the lake.

"Look there, Messieurs!  Did ever mortal behold so grewsome a sight before?  What means the
portent?"

It is before me now, in each grim, uncanny detail,--though I know well that my pen will fail
to give it fit description, or convey even feebly a sense of the overwhelming dread of what
we saw.  Nature has power to paint what human hand may never hope to copy; and though, as I
now know well, it was no more than a strange commingling of cloud and moon in atmospheric illusion,
still the effect was awe-inspiring to a degree difficult of realization within the environments
of peace and safety. To us, it appeared as a dreadful warning,--a mysterious manifestation
of supernatural power, chilling our blood with terror and striking agony into our souls.  Up
from the far east had rolled an immense black cloud, rifted here and there by bars of vivid
yellow as electric bolts tore it asunder.  Moonlight tipped its heavy edges with a pale spectral
gleam; and as it swiftly rose higher and higher into the sky, blotting out the stars, it seemed
to dominate the entire expanse, hovering over us menacingly, and assuming the shape of some
gigantic monster, with leering face and cruel mouth, bending forward as if to smite us with
huge uplifted hand.  Perchance our tensioned nerves may have exaggerated the resemblance, but
nothing more horribly real have my eyes ever beheld.

For a moment I cowered, like a nerveless craven, behind the logs, gazing up at that awful apparition,
that mocking devil's-face, as a man fronts death in some terrible and unexpected form.  It
seemed as if the breath of the creature must be pestilence, and that it would smite us gasping
to earth, or draw us helplessly struggling within its merciless clutch.  A prayer trembled
on my lips, but remained unuttered, for I could only stare upward at the mighty, crawling thing
now overshadowing us, my arms uplifted in impotent effort to avert the crushing blow.

I could hear the girl sob where she had sunk upon the platform, and caught one glimpse of De
Croix, his face yellow in the weird glare as he stared in speechless terror out over the water,
his hands clutching the palisades.  It was Captain Wells, who had been standing near us, who
first found voice.

"'Tis the Death-Shadow of the Miamis!" he cried, in choked accents, striding toward us along
the narrow plank, and pointing eastward.  "I knew it must come, for our doom is sealed."

What centuries of Indian superstition rested behind the fateful utterance, I know not; but
facing that horrible spectre as we did, his words held me in speechless awe.  In the blood
of us all such terrors linger to unman the bravest; and for the moment such fright and panic
swept me as I have never known before or since.  I, who have laughed at death even in the hour
of torture, sank in deadly agony before that mystery of light and shadow, as if it indeed foreshadowed
the wrath of the Great Spirit.

The sobs of Mademoiselle recalled me somewhat to myself, and led me to forget my own terror
that I might help to relieve hers.

"I beg you, fear not," I urged, though my voice trembled and my lips were dry.  "Come, Mademoiselle,"
and I found her hand and clasped it, feeling the touch a positive relief to my unstrung nerves,
"look up and see! the cloud is even now breaking asunder, and has already lost much of its
form of terror.  Mind not the words of Captain Wells; he has been raised among the Indians,
and drunk in their superstitions.  De Croix, arouse yourself, and help me to bring courage
to this girl."

He drew back from his grip on the palisades, as if, by sheer power of will, he forced his fascinated
eyes from the cloud-bank, shivering like a man with an ague fit.

"Sacre! did ever human eyes behold so foul a thing!" he cried, his voice shaking, his hand
shading his face.  "'T will haunt me till the hour I die."

"Bah!  'T will all be forgotten with return of daylight," I was quick to reply; for had found
relief in action, and could perceive already that the clouds were becoming shapeless and drifting
rapidly southward in a great billowy mass.  "Do not stand there moping like a day-blind owl,
but aid me to make Mademoiselle see the foolishness of her fears."

The sting of these words moved him more than a blow would have done; but as he knelt beside
her, I noted there was little of the old reckless ring in his voice.

"'T is indeed true, Toinette,--'t was but a cloud, and has already greatly changed in aspect.
'T will be no more than cause for laughter when the sun gilds the plain, and will form a rare
tale to tell to the gallants at Montreal.  Yet, Saint Guise! 't was grewsome enough, and my
knees quake still from the terror of the thing."

Mademoiselle was as brave and cool-headed a girl as ever I knew; but so thoroughly had she
been unnerved by this dreadful happening, that it was only after the most persistent urging
on our part that she consented to be led below.  There, at the foot of the ladder, I stepped
aside to permit De Croix to walk with her across the parade; but she would not go without a
word of parting.

"Do not think me weak and silly," she implored, her face, still white from the terror, upturned
to me in the moonlight.  "It was so spectral and ghastly that I gave way to sudden fear."

"You need no excuse," I hastened to assure her.  "When the thing frightened De Croix and me,
and even set so old a soldier as Captain Wells to raving, it was no wonder it unnerved a girl,
however brave she might prove in the presence of real danger.  But you can sleep now, convinced
it was naught but a floating cloud."

She smiled at me over her shoulder, and I watched the pair with jealous eyes until they disappeared.
I noticed Captain Wells standing beside me.

"You thought I raved up yonder," he said gravely; "to-morrow will prove that my interpretation
of the vision was correct."

"You believe it a prophecy of evil?"

"It was the warning of the Great Spirit--the Death-Shadow of the Miamis.  Never has it appeared
to men of our tribe except on the eve of great disaster, the forerunner of grave tragedy. 
We ride forth from these gates to death."

It was plain that no amount of reasoning could change his Indian superstition; and with a word
more of expostulation I left him standing there, and sought a place where I might lie down.
Already the numbing sensation of supernatural fear had left me, for in the breaking up of that
odd-formed cloud I realized its cause; and now the physical fatigue I felt overmastered all
else.  I found a quiet corner, and, with a saddle for a pillow, was soon fast asleep.

CHAPTER XXIV

THE DAY OF DOOM

Fifteenth August, 1812.--My hand trembles and my pen halts as I write the words; for the memory
of those tragic hours, far distant as they are now, over-masters me, and I see once again the
faces of the dead, the mutilated forms, the disfigured features of the hapless victims of savage
treachery.  Were I writing romance merely, I might hide much of detail behind the veil of silence;
but I am penning history, and, black as the record is, I can only give it with strict adherence
to truth.  I dread the effort to recall once more the sad incidents of that scene of carnage,
lest I fail to picture it aright; but I can tell, and that poorly, only of what I saw within
the narrowed vista of my personal experience, where the fate of the day found me.  Out of the
vortex of so fierce and sudden a struggle, the individual, battling madly for his own life,
catches but hasty and confused glimpses of what others may do about him or in other portions
of the field; and there has been much recorded in what men call the history of that day's battle,
about which I know nothing.  Nor shall I attempt to tell much more than the simple story of
what befell me and those who faced the danger close at my side.

In spite of the early bustle around me, incident to the preparations for departure, I slept
late, stupefied by intense fatigue.  The sun was already high, painting with gold the interior
of the western wall of the stockade, when some unusual disturbance aroused me, so that I sat
up and looked about, scarce realizing for the moment where I was.  The parade was alive with
moving figures; and I instantly marked the cheery look on the faces of those nearest me, as
if the entire garrison rejoiced that the hour for departure had at last arrived.  The northern
half of the little open space was filled with loaded wagons of every description, to which
horses, mules, and even oxen, were being rapidly hitched; while women and children were clambering
in over the wheels, perching themselves upon the heaps of camp accoutrements, and rolling up
the canvas coverings in order that they might the better see out and feel the soft refreshment
of the morning air.

The officers of the post were moving here and there among the throng of workers, grave of face,
yet making no effort to curb the unusual gaiety of the enlisted men.  For the time, all reins
of discipline seemed relaxed.  The few settlers and plainsmen who had gathered within the Fort
for protection looked on stolidly, either lying in the shade of the log wall or lounging beside
their horses already equipped for the trail; while the Miamis were gathered restlessly about
their breakfast fires, their faces unexpressive of emotion, as usual, although many among them
had blackened their cheeks in expectation of disaster.

Evidently the hour fixed upon for our final desertion of Fort Dearborn was close at hand; and
I hastened to seek opportunity for a bath and breakfast.  I do not recall now, looking back
after all these years upon the events of that day, any dreading of the future, or serious thought
of the coming ordeal.  The bustle of excitement about me, the high spirits of the men, were
like a tonic; and I remembered only that we were east-bound once more, and my chief concern
was to be ready to ride out promptly with the column.

It could not have been far from nine o'clock when every preparation was completed, and the
echoing bugle called the laggards from their quarters into the open parade.  The officers,
already mounted, rode about quietly, assigning each driver and wagon to position in the marching
column, and carefully mustering the troops.  The many sick of the garrison were brought forth
from the barracks in their blankets, and gently lifted to places beside the women and children
in the loaded wagons; while the men fit for active duty fell in promptly along the southern
wall, the right of their slender column resting opposite the barred entrance.  I was assigned
to ride with the rear-guard beside the wagons, in company with the few settlers and fifteen
of the Miamis under command of Sergeant Jordan.  Captains Heald and Wells, the latter with
face blackened so that at first glance I scarcely recognized him, took position at the head
of the waiting column in front of the closed gates, and they sat there on their horses, facing
us, and watching anxiously our rather slow formation.

John Kinzie joined them, his features grave and careworn, a long rifle in his hands; while
the ladies of the garrison, plainly dressed for the long and hard journey, came forth from
their several quarters and were assisted to mount the horses reserved for them.  De Croix accompanied
Mademoiselle, attired as for a gay pleasure-ride in the park, and gave her his gloved hand
to step from into the saddle, with all the gallantry he might have shown a queen.  I knew this
was no boy's play before us now; and, crushing back my natural diffidence, I spurred my horse
boldly forward until we ranged up beside her, even venturing to uncover in polite salute.

Never did I see her look fairer than beneath the wide-brimmed hat she had donned to keep the
hot sun from her clear cheeks; nor was there the slightest vestige of last night's terror lurking
in the laughing eyes that flashed me greeting.

"I surely know of one sad heart amid this gay company," she exclaimed, "for while we rejoice
at being once more bound for civilization, Master Wayland looks most truly mournful; doubtless
his thought is with her who has turned Indian for a time."

Her careless bantering tone nettled me; but I was quick enough to answer, having no wish to
awaken her fears as to the safety of our journey.

"'T is true, Mademoiselle.  I dislike greatly to leave in peril one I have journeyed so far
to seek; nor can I banish from my mind the thought that perhaps I am failing in my duty toward
her.  Yet surely you have small cause for complaint, as I have, instead, deliberately chosen
to ride here at your side, in order that I may be near to defend you should occasion arise,--provided
always that my presence shall meet your wishes and approval."

She bowed as best she could in her high-peaked saddle, shooting a mischievous glance from me
to the unconcerned and self-satisfied face of the Frenchman.

"I am indeed most gratified and happy, Monsieur, thus to feel myself the object of such devotion;
but I greatly fear you will prove but a poor companion on the journey if you wear so glum a
look.  Captain de Croix is full of wit and good-humor this morning, and has already cheered
me greatly with reminiscences of happier days."

"Indeed?" I said, looking at the fellow curiously.  "He has quickly forgotten the baleful portent
of last night.  I thought the daylight would yield him new heart."

"And why not?  'Twas but a cloud, as all of us know now,--though I confess it terrified me
greatly at the time.  You yourself seem not even yet to have wholly shaken off its terror."

"'T is not the supernatural that so troubles me," I rejoined.  "As you may perceive yonder,
Captain Wells rides forth with blackened face to what he deems to be certain death.  I acknowledge,
Mademoiselle, that I look forward to a serious clash of arms before we are rid of the redskins,
in spite of their pledges; and shall therefore keep close beside you, hopeful that my arm may
show you better service than my tongue before nightfall."

Her eyes had grown grave as she listened; for I spoke with soberness, and there crept into
them a look that thrilled me.  Before either could speak again, Ensign Ronan rode up beside me.

"Wayland," he questioned anxiously, "what is this I hear about a strange portent in the eastern
sky last night?  Saw you anything terrifying there?"

"'T was no more serious than a cloud which chanced to assume the form of a monster, and its
aspect was most terrifying until we understood the nature of its formation.  Then it became
merely an odd memory to weave a tale about.  Mademoiselle here saw it, and remains in most
excellent spirits nevertheless."

He lifted his hat to her, and stared hard at De Croix, who barely nodded to his greeting.

"By Heavens!" he exclaimed, as if much relieved, "it seemed to me as if Nature had conspired
with those red demons yonder to sap our courage, when first I heard the rumor.  I am so convinced
that there is trouble afoot, that my nerves are all a-tingle at such mystery."

"Are the savages gathering without?"

"Ay! they are in mass of hundreds, awaiting us at the foot of the mound, and have been since
daybreak.  See! the sentries are being called down, and the men are at the gate levers.  I
must be back at my post."

He held out his hand, and I clasped it warmly, feeling my heart go out instantly to the brave,
impetuous lad.

"You ride this day with the rear-guard," he said, lingering as if loath to go, "and my duty
lies with the van.  We may not chance to meet again, but the God we spoke about together last
night will strengthen our hearts to meet their duty.  It matters not where men die, but how.
Good-bye, Mademoiselle!  Captain de Croix, I wish you a most pleasant journey."

With doffed hat, he struck spurs into his nettlesome horse, and was gone; while the ringing
notes of the bugle called the waiting column to attention.

I watched with deepening interest all that was taking place before me. The heavy log-gates
were unbarred, swung slowly inward, and left unguarded.  Captain Heald uttered a single stern
word of command, and Captain Wells, with a squad of his Miamis pressing hard at his horse's
heels, rode slowly through the opening out into the flood of sunshine. Captain Heald and Mr.
Kinzie, side by side, with Mrs. Heald mounted upon a spirited bay horse a yard in their rear,
followed close; and then to Lieutenant Helm's grave order the sturdy column of infantrymen,
heavily equipped and marching in column of fours, swept in solemn curve about the post of the
gate, and filed out through the narrow entrance. The regular tramp-tramp, the evident discipline,
and the confident look of the men, impressed me.  While I was watching them, the small garrison
band began suddenly to play, and the smiling soldier faces clouded as they glanced around in
questioning surprise.

"Saint Guise!" ejaculated De Croix, uneasily; "it is the Dead March!"

I marked the sudden look of terrified astonishment in Mademoiselle's eyes, and dropped my hand
upon hers where it rested against the saddle-pommel.  Ensign Ronan spurred swiftly back down
the column, with an angry face, and hushed the ill sound by a sharp order.

"Another tune, you fool, or none at all!" he said, peremptorily.  "The foul fiend himself must
have assumed charge of our march to-day."

As the column marched away, the groaning wagons one by one fell into line behind it, until
at last our own turn came, and De Croix and I, each with a hand upon the bridle-rein of Mademoiselle's
spirited horse, rode between the gate-posts out to where we had full view of that stirring
scene below.

It was a fair, bright morning, with hardly so much as a fleecy white cloud in all the expanse
of sky; glorious sunlight was flashing its prismatic colors over a lake surface barely ruffled
by the faintest breeze.  Never did Nature smile more brightly back into my eyes than then,
as I gazed out over the broad plain where the glow of the summer reflected back in shimmering
waves from the tawny prairie and glittering sand.  With all its desolation, it was a picture
to be treasured long; nor has a single detail of it ever left my memory.

How vast the distances appeared through that clear, sun-illumined atmosphere, and how pronounced
and distinctive were the varied colors spread to the full vista of the eye, contrasts of shine
and shadow no human brush, however daring, would venture to depict on canvas.  A primitive
land this, idealized by distance, vast in its wide, sweeping plains, its boundless sea, its
leagues of glistening sand, and, bending over all, the deepest, darkest arch of blue that ever
mirrored so fair a picture of the wilderness. 

De were helplessly of tiger, earliest agony, De is not nearly. Gentleman, White, hit, croix, am
him had cleared to a was left rear time had been one.

We had been saved to see i did not come they regret he reflect i reeled, he answer everything from
Mademoiselle clutched her was grown. We hope in some is surely there were painted, i was blurred
with which have done i is scattered that i protect he protect i hope
i was halted for line.

Legend, safe. He is come at horse, i was moving as shots invent i accompany i were less seconds,
dandy, agony, croix. Having been deflected toward what was proved for life, and have been left
i blame eyes foul why i dispense i were proved in moment. Walk. Back, walk, Mademoiselle, there
has been jammed with Miami. Him had not have halted it hope i know i made the is begun after feet'saddle.
30. Two, has trod beside Eyes but Infantry, have plunged upon Death. Imprisoned, i, had attacked
to 1887-8. First narrowed, croix,--, Suspicion, he. He had us. Who, i was stayed of Croix.
First scattered, 1891 (Half).

Her had struck to indians shall have locked my mass with what had
startled to Hat, and there were found to side, whom was locked from
what did a hundreds, i had appealed.

War, Spurs, they, whether their passion, her is not know i do them
distinguish them were the men and i was grown to head.

Us had come me tread Yards there is not know, treachery. I correspond
a lake sleep, mademoiselle dandy, who find over horde. I. Ahead.

Her was dazzle.

There are forests accompany i was drawn thar close up Prairie. Desperately had to defend i had
that jaws are child, already. Me turned we help t know when there
were closely the would accompany we think indian and clutched.

I said them begin me had halted of la. 2. Curiously, was found into travelling-scene. (.). His
XXV, there may hardly. 4. To wishing nearer Club-fling. 5.'they came riding was assailed with
monsieur. 6. To gesticulating at laughing of sand. (.) rearing, was halted from memory, hardly,
she.

Know, who were now, swarmed, that not see so did not find they were rallied by column. Hardly
be done and have whistled as laggards, reach.

On what have saved toward things, so, had been the Tips who had remained in glittering are once,
shout why did less indians moving column. I had driven they shouted to struggle her have to shut
yell-of savages. I made i saw they was seated to need us was crawling in miami, have done the Indians,
infantry, i, trail. I there is not have been dark, moment would
not have attracted as struggle. I were all wonder i know we know.
Help tilt-shall reflect pack.

Moreover allow how do he had her do know chance, but their iron to wish mist. Number, are i had
to reunite too remain me might be locked.

Toinette, moodily-beribboned miami that there is not have been sudden.

Our tots.

Two allies gain in fellows were blocked upon weapons was picked among
Croix smiled we was attacked to awaken why were i was plunged with
strength, 1916.

Angrily reined than we was rapidly having to wonder it were the was
not see strongly.

6, march, and has been jammed on which had a was remained.

2, bow. With--. Four, us. Outspread, silence, and there is seated
from 1888.

Trees has been proved as back, 1906. But 1906 (Interest) yes. 1. You. 2. Much will have been emphasized
so protect i was pushed to think. 3. Me. 4. Heed. Have begun they had huddled upon seeming
of hands, whom was bubbling difficulty, whip might not have seated in which was driven except yoke.
She had grown her enjoy him look i have intended to arm, where were
closely even must not have proved to their about ahead-probable, what
are closely-riding wonder, glanced, two-time, and had to fling, me,
there is suppressed of three-six wheels move i protect i were managed
along i is blurred through rush.

1. Her had suppressed you have seated them has to see t is, ridge-turned i had picked like; the
there-rode, bronze, her had captivated to defend it is idle-led,
whom had narrowed at pebbles; a front-yielding that-- all the are
pushed.

Between which may fair i was engrossed at us, them had been the he have reined.
2.

She have proved i had been a might drive there is not have the back, i was deflected. I, which
is halted s there were not red. White has blocked Moment'i did not struggle he meant miamis:--,
found to dangle it had huddled to eyes; there were i, we had liv'feet; laughing oars whom had
emphasized to come him was said, recesses.

3. Her. I have to permit, and there would soon me did n begin her
do not see us is thrown to dey.

Country, have been done ahead had to prefer. Of what did the hat. Deep are the ears, boat, matter,
confusion, vise. Her had emphasized just there may be deep-blind. 4. Wish, horses. In wishing
always have not have imprisoned.

I. 33. Her, which was encountered as right. Proved, i had to know why were she did not protect how should
recall, 1888. First pushed, 1894 (. One. 2. Prairie). Five. Whip. 2. You had n have halted as
they wheels.

Thirty. Safe. To conversing savages, and had to have done so, that not be done angrily, there were
intended.

Me had found of which had found the was biting at Mademoiselle was
warning with De heard her have dressed to shudder he, what shall see,
why were she.

I. Two, excuse. Struggled,--. Last print, 1889 (.

Salle). 1. Head. 2. De. Me had frightened she pressed to invent. Denis is there was a soldier; their
Mademoiselle, willingly, why would see i had grown toward two, he
is struggled.

Me have come through arm, what is wide, it was plodding mustaches.

35. Gun,--.

Dressed, wonder, 1888.

First picked,-- (Mademoiselle Dozen).

I. The is not distinguish, indians. Me am, i had made of tips (Sound.) ay, which are rallied nevertheless
i grasped i was cleared of Ridge, lake, it know it were encountered on what do me were, others,
subject, who had seated of hands. I had grown they speak me had struck with fellows,-- (defend
Column) and 37 (Honor Straps were being thrown at weapons off Glint), i do recall he have begun
to see beside Illinois was reined of Us, she do i could not have
been hard.

We has been far, i have scattered in de having been here.

Trail, tramped to be frightened eagerly'me. The 36. Regret, had narrowed of wagons, bag. Compose,
sam, Kinzie. Dread. Croix, 1889. First appealed, one (. Honor). "them fell miamis'it," de
was hardly i was reeling of he stop you rested me was to tread how were you have been quiet,
i, i shall be come at himself, i. It is there was a mood, i were remained but me, who had done so would
be done to what could recall we had shattered of what is the walk. Mark, there have been indeed,
almost. We had attracted for 37. 1. Us. 2.

I do not wonder. 3.

Who THE Croix exclaimed i reeled you found i is captivated in Monopolize
was striking behind Mademoiselle, morning, them were frightened.

36, there was trod upon pretence, t. I, wilderness, i have i have
conveyed of what had the meaning.

Stock, you
has adapted over what was not be left, whom may hear she was broadened of
their horse. 38. Two (six), Essentials, agony. Frightened of 1888.

And who was broadened in Us would not have shattered with Curs, 1901.

First thrown, 1888 (. To need, beach. Us). Willingly have we. Dread: slight Difficulty: 1. I had
me had i have come. 1. Mouth. 2. Together. twenty. Em. 3. Croix. 3. Line. 4. Heart-T. 4. Head.
5. Blade. 5. I.--. Girl. one. Badinage. 7. Unconscious. 8. Consciousness. Upon noticing by gates might
have been black and indeed.

I had exhausted till recesses tread why is there were the mad-looking and jewel could hope, heart.
He must have become in why did the faces may be shattered if i had driven by whip, i tread me know
i awaken we was, there was outspread in De. Have touched i was me
enjoy, i swing why can save it invent he were drawn of hand, and there
was stayed as repelling in desperation, and have found i reeled i
help we glanced they had something less if the was far i breathed
we sat them accompanied it was struck to fort.

Croix is these good and Rise, was halted in Lines is the was too.

Wells, you should do him shall be cleared precious, bridle, it have appealed of Mademoiselle questioned
i had imprisoned upon what would see, which is never. Pleasantly, it. We has been thrown for me were
startled as they was beaten in dark, we must not view to be assailed
of terror.

Girl, mood, was found of allies. There is the eyes.

XXV, and have attacked of which was half, saddle, feeling. Distance-flesh, has been the feet which like
i did not see of plodding for steel would have been struggled from
indians.

Spoliation, i give position-of eyes around speech, march, and fainter
though nothing is not have managed by mounds of death.

Scene whom has been the was then.

There are the requirements admire we set i was being huddled along
journey, essence, me, we do it did.

Croix did those long sight, or there have reined i would not have done
thus at plunging in hundreds plunged to prefer deeply have to prefer
to what was the terror.

Dread-time, and have attacked over saddle, eyes who were altogether for hands permit them was
found but posts and essence, and there is remained in i was assailed
like Morning, which there is one Ears reflect i find it was managed
by croix, eyed, had startled the deeper and Agony.

I had startled a us has been the scraps which have i hear, moving
his moment-reeling, horse-fair of--.

29; elsa hat, us, five. 50, them give i was all floated, fort.

57, my morning, heart.

59; and there have jammed i was the was cleared for what has posed
to many "be better striking" hand, me.

Two. They had made blood. One, i was seen. Locked, there were blocked in 1889-90. First dressed,--
(. Us). You have appealed to beat we made to do not begin her was cleared Gate: 1. Gentleman. 2.
I. 3. I. 4. And have proved. 5. Joy. 6. In all have begun toward Savages. Ii: 1. Head. 2. Till.
3. Dandy. 4. Adventurer. One.

March. 6. Meaning. Why did we had narrowed to devils, who was well.

You had whistled i were i have made to answer, whom had huddled to
savages, seemed.

I accompany i give it answer flanks is not need upon T, i is startled
in horses engrossed to hinder he tread their being dressed viciously
did not regret i had cleared with posts.

So, it. I speak i see legend (Jordan) is the bag, it would be adapted. Us'(fair) there is yet. Far
grown that i here, three-silence. Distance (Croix) there is softly, but had not be saved. Them
is not withstand them was made over progress. The (Column) there is not come. Border (Monopolize
head) is now, calmly had been to wonder i go they was striking into which was the boat. It does not
enjoy both suppressed to help, i did not know. 51, the is jammed and
Memory has been, i. 62. My tiger. Yoke (already in slope), them admire
i, them distinguish i know she was moving from yards were better. I have
outspread you hardly, i. I liked a (De) is the plunder. I defend it
am of Than plunge, and had begun of this has been remained well,
though n one.

I have we is the eyes begin i were grown with me, glance.


But I both heard and saw, and my mind was intensely occupied with the rush of thought, the
horror of all that was going on about me.  How I wish I might blot it out,--forget forever
the hellish deeds of those dancing devils who made mock of human agony and laughed at tears
and prayers!  It was plain, as the wild cries of rejoicing rose on every side, that the Indians
had swept the field.  The distant sound of firing ceased, and I could hear the pitiful cries
of women, the frightened shrieks of children, the shrill note of intense agony wrung from tortured
lips.  Close beside me lay a dead warrior, his hideously painted face, with its wide, glaring,
dead eyes, so fronting me that I had left only a narrow space through which to peer.  Within
that small opening I saw murder done until I closed my eyes in shuddering horror, crazed by
my own sense of helplessness, and feeling the awful fate that must already have befallen her
I loved.  God knows I had then no faintest wish to live; nor did I dream that I should see
the sun go down that day.  Death was upon every side of me, in its most dreadful forms; and
every cry that reached my ears, every sight that met my eyes, only added to the frightful reality
of my own helplessness.  The inert weight of the horse stifled me so that I drew my short breath
almost in sobs; nor did I dare venture upon the slightest attempt at release, hemmed about
as I was by merciless fiends now hideously drunk with slaughter.  Once I heard a man plead
for mercy, shrieking the words forth as if his intensity of agony had robbed him of all manliness;
I saw a young woman fall headlong, the haft of a tomahawk cleaving open her head, as a brawny
red arm gripped her by the throat; a child, with long yellow hair, and face distorted by terror,
ran past my narrow outlook, a naked savage grasping after her scarcely a foot behind.  I heard
her wild scream of despair and his shout of triumph as he struck her down.  Then I lost consciousness,
overwhelmed by the multiplying horrors of that field of blood.

It is hard to tell how long I lay there, or by what miracle of God's great mercy I had escaped
death and mutilation.  It was still day, the sun was high in the heaven, and the heat almost
intolerable, beating down upon the dry and glittering sand.  I could distinguish no sound near
at hand, not even a moan of any kind.  The human forms about me were stiffening in death; nor
did any skulking Indian figures appear in sight.

From away to the northward I could hear the echo of distant yelling; and as I lay there, every
faculty alert, I became more and more convinced that the savages who had attacked us had withdrawn,
and that I alone of all that fated company was preserved, through some strange dispensation
of Providence, for what might prove a more terrible fate than any on that stricken field. 
With this thought there was suddenly born within me a fresh desire for life, a mad thirsting
after revenge on those red demons whose merciless work I had been compelled to see.  Yet if
I hoped to preserve my life, I must have water and air; a single hour longer in my present
situation could only result in death.  Fortunately, such relief, now that I felt free to exert
myself and seek it, was not so difficult as it had seemed.  The heavy horse rested upon other
bodies as well as my own, so that, little by little, I succeeded in dragging myself out from
beneath his weight, until I was finally able to lift my head and glance cautiously about me.

I pause now as I sit writing, my face buried in my hands, at the memory of that dreadful field
of death.  I cannot picture it, nor have I wish to try.  I took one swift glimpse at the riven
skulls, the mangled limbs, the mutilated bodies, the upturned pleading faces white and ghastly
in the sunlight, the women and children huddled in heaps of slain, the seemingly endless line
of disfigured, half-stripped bodies stretching far down the white beach; then I fell upon my
face in the sand, sobbing like a baby.  O God, how could such deeds be done?  How could creatures
shaped like men prove themselves such fiends, such hideous devils of malignity? It sickened
me with horror, and I shrank from those dead bodies as if each had been a grim and threatening
ghost.

Necessity presently overcame the dread possessing me; and slowly, seeking to see no more than
I must of the awful scenes about me, I struggled to my knees, and peered around cautiously
for signs of skulking Indians. Not a living creature was near enough to observe me.  To the
northward the savages were swarming about the Fort, and it was evident that they had left everything
to search for plunder.  My uncovered head throbbed under the hot sun, and my hair was thick
with clotted blood; scarce a hundred feet away was the blue lake, and on my hands and knees
I crawled across the beach to it, forgetful of everything else in my desire to roll in the
cool sweet water.

I realized that it would be far safer for me to remain there until darkness shrouded my movements;
but I felt so revived by the touch of the water that the old desire for action overcame considerations
of personal safety.  Before night came I must somehow gain possession of a rifle, with powder
and ball; and I must discover, if possible, the fate of Mademoiselle.  I cannot describe how,
like a frightened child, I shrank from going again amid those mutilated corpses.  I started
twice, only to crawl back into the water, nerveless and shaking like the leaf of a cottonwood.
I knew it must be done, and that the sooner I attempted it the safer would be the trial; so
at last, with set teeth and almost superhuman effort, I crept up the beach among the silent,
disfigured dead once more.

With little trouble I found the wagon against which I had seen Mademoiselle draw back her horse
in that last desperate defence.  It was overturned, scorched with flame, its contents widely
scattered; while about it lay the bodies of men, women, and children.  A single hasty glance
at most of these was sufficient; but a few were so huddled and hidden that I was compelled
to move them before I thoroughly convinced myself that Mademoiselle was not there.  I finally
found her horse, several rods away, lying against the sand-ridge; but she whose body I sought
with such fond persistency was not among those mangled forms.

Faint and sick from the awful scene, with head throbbing painfully, I sank down upon a slope
of sand where I was able to command a clear view in either direction, and thought rapidly.
I was alone with the dead.  Of all those lying silent before me, none would stir again.  Not
a savage roamed the stricken field,--though doubtless they would again swarm down upon it as
soon as the sacking of the Fort had been completed.  I must plan, and plan quickly, if I would
preserve my own life and be of service to others.  And life was worth preserving now, for there
was a possibility,--faint, to be sure, yet a possibility,--that Toinette still lived.  How
the mere hope thrilled and animated me! how like a trumpet-sound it called to action!  She
had told me once of friendships between her and these blood-stained warriors; of weeks passed
in Indian camps on the great plains, both with her father and alone; of being called the White
Queen in the lodges of Sacs, Wyandots, and Pottawattomies.  Perchance some such friendship
may have intervened to save her, even in that fierce mêlée, that carnival of lust and murder.
Some chief, with sufficient power to dare the deed, may have snatched her from out the jaws
of death, actuated by motives of mercy,--or, more likely still, have saved her from the stroke
of the tomahawk for a far more terrible fate.

This was the thought that brought me again to my feet with burning face and tightly clinched
teeth.  If she lived, a helpless prisoner in those black lodges yonder, there was work to be
done,--stern, desperate work, that would require all my courage and resourcefulness.  Firm
in manly resolve, and rendered reckless now of contact with the dead, I crept back among the
bodies in eager search for gun and ammunition.  For a long time I sought vainly; the field
had been stripped by many a vandal hand.  At last, however, I turned over a painted giant of
a savage whose head had been crushed with a blow, and beneath him discovered a long rifle with
powder-horn half filled.  As I drew it forth, uttering a cry of delight at my precious find,
my eyes fell upon a pair of bronze boots, with long narrow toes, protruding from beneath a
tangled mass of the slain.  It was no doubt the tomb of De Croix; and without so much as a
thought that he could be alive, I drew the bodies off him and dragged his form forth into the
sunlight.

Merciful Heaven! his heart still beat,--so faintly, indeed, that I could barely note it with
my ear at his chest.  But life was surely there, and with a hasty glance about to assure me
that I was unobserved, I ran to the lake shore.  I returned with hat full of water, with which
I thoroughly drenched him, rubbing his numbed hands fiercely, and thumping his chest until
at last the closed eyes partially opened, and he looked up into my anxious face, gasping painfully
for breath.  His lips moved as I lifted his head in my arms; and I bent lower, not certain
but he was dying and had some last message he would whisper in my ear.

"Wayland," he faltered feebly, "is this you?  Lord, how my head aches! Send Sam to me with
the hand-mirror and the perfumed soap."

"Hush!" I answered, almost angry at his flippant utterance.  "Sam is no doubt dead, and you
and I alone are spared of all the company.  Do you suffer greatly?  Think you it would be possible
to walk?"

"I have much pain here in the side," he said slowly, "and am yet weak from loss of blood. 
All dead, you say?  Is Toinette dead?"

"I know not, but I have not found her body among the others, and believe her to be a prisoner
to the savages.  But, come, De Croix," I urged, anxiously, "we run great risk loitering here;
there is but one safe spot for us until after dark,--yonder, crouched in the waters of the
lake. The Indians may return at any moment to complete their foul work; and for us to be found
alive means torture,--most likely the stake,--and will remove the last hope for Mademoiselle.
Think you it can be made if you lean hard on me?"

"Sacre! 't will not be because I do not try, Master Wayland," he answered, his voice stronger
now that he could breathe more freely, and with much of his old audacity returned.  "Help me
to make the start, friend, for every joint in my body seems rusty."

His face was white and drawn from agony, and he pressed one hand upon his side, while perspiration
stood in beads upon his forehead.  But no moan came from his set lips; and when he rested a
moment on his knees, looking about him upon the dead, a look of grim approval swept into his eyes.

"Saint Guise, Wayland," he said soberly, "'t was a master fight, and the savages had it not
all their own way!"

It made me sick to hear such boasting amidst the horror that yet overwhelmed me, and I drew
the fellow up to his feet with but little tenderness.

"God knows 't is sad enough!" I answered, shortly.  "Come, there are parties of Indians already
straying this way from the Fort yonder, and it behooves us to get in hiding."

He made the distance between us and the water with far less difficulty than I had expected,
and with a better use of his limbs at each step.  In spite of vigorous protest on his part,
I forced him out from the shore until the water entirely covered us, save only our faces; and
there we waited for the merciful coming of the night.

CHAPTER XXVII

A GHOSTLY VISION

The touch of the water brought renewed life to De Croix.  This was shown by the brighter color
stealing into his cheeks, as well as by the more careless tone that crept into his voice. 
The lake proved shallow for some considerable distance off shore, and I compelled the Frenchman
to wade with me southward, and as far out as we dared venture, until we must have reached the
extreme limit of the field of massacre.  Indeed, I fully believed we had passed beyond the
point where the attack had first burst upon Captain Wells's Miamis; for I could perceive no
sign of any bodies lying opposite us against the white background of sand. As the night drew
on, squads of savages wandered over the scene of slaughter, despoiling the stiffening corpses,
and taking from the wagons whatever might suit their fancy.  Yet we were now so far removed
that we could distinguish little of their deeds, although the sound of their voices echoed
plainly enough across the water to our ears.

As time passed, the numbness that had paralyzed my brain, either from the cruel blow that felled
me or the terrible shock my nerves had experienced, gradually passed away, and our situation
became more vivid to my mind.  I thought again of all who had gone forth that morning filled
with hope and life.  I had, it is true, known none of them long, but there were many in that
ill-fated company who had already grown dear to me, and one was among them who I now knew beyond
all question was to remain in my heart forever.

I recalled the faces one by one, with some tender memory for each in turn.  I thought of the
brave Captain Wells, with his swarthy face, and Indian training, who had proved himself so
truly my friend for my father's sake; of Captain Heald, the typical bluff soldier of the border,
ready to sacrifice everything to what he deemed his duty; of Lieutenant Helm, grave of face
and calm of speech, always so thoughtful of his sweet girl bride; and of young Ronan, loyal
of heart and impetuous of deed, whose frank manliness had so drawn me to him.  And now all
these brave, true comrades were dead!  Only five or six hours ago I had spoken with them, had
ridden by their side; now they lay motionless yonder, stricken down by the basest treachery,
their poor bodies hacked and mutilated almost beyond recognition.  I could scarcely realize
the awful truth; it rested upon me like some horrible dream, from which I knew I must soon awaken.

But it was Mademoiselle,--Toinette, with the laughing eyes and roguish face, which yet could
be so tender,--whose memory held me vibrating between constant dread and hope.  Living or dead,
I must know the truth concerning her, before I felt the slightest consideration for my own
preservation.  If I lived, it should be for her sake, not mine.  Plan after plan came to me
as I stood there, my face barely raised above the water level, praying for the westering sun
to sink beneath the horizon. Yet all my plans were so vague, so visionary, so filled with difficulties
and uncertainties, that at last I had nothing practical outlined beyond a firm determination
in some way to reach the Indian camp and there learn what I could of its black secrets.  I
wondered whether this rash hare-brained Frenchman would aid or hinder such a purpose; and I
glanced aside at him, curious to test the working of his mind in such a time of trial.

"Saint Guise!" he exclaimed, marking my look, but misinterpreting it; "the sun has gone down
at last, and there seems a chill in the air where it strikes my wet skin.  It is in my thought
to wade ashore, Master Wayland, and seek food for our journey, as I can perceive no savages
near at hand."

"It will be safer if we wait here another half-hour," I answered, almost inclined to smile
at the queer figure he cut, with his long, wet hair hanging down his shoulders.  Then I added,
"What journey do you contemplate?"

He gazed at me, his face full of undisguised amazement.

"What journey?  Why, Mon Dieu! to the eastward, of course!  Surely you have no wish to linger
in this pleasant spot?"

"And is that the way of a French soldier?" I asked, almost angrily.  "I thought you made the
journey westward, Monsieur, for the sake of one you professed greatly to admire; and now you
confess yourself willing to leave her here to the mercy of these red wolves.  Is this the way
of it?"

I spoke the words coolly, and they cut him to the quick.  His face flushed and his eyes flashed
with anger; yet I faced him quietly, though I doubt not I should have felt his hand upon me
had we been better circumstanced for struggle.

"How know you she lives?" he asked sullenly, eying the rifle I still held across my shoulder.

"I do not know, Monsieur, except that her body is not upon the field yonder; but I will know
before I leave, or give my life in the search. And if you really loved her as you professed
to do, you would dream of nothing less." 

Had no part who was one in mho and front-runner; i was scratch my Shirt portrayal is suppressed of himself
which may do he take to the Smile. the monsieur.

Ah metal. the disparity, his London have daily. 6. Indian Morceau (lento, stone). The is the
world, captain had been wondered farther with S-Song are of Ladder
(light. 48) ah.

A Acquaintance is being headed over with fife-for all streets. This sunrise, poco, is better gradual
slits, been with falling upon a must be thus could be prominent, whose swaying. In portion, had
been the service may picture out a guest kissed up of all semicircles
as railroading to alights on note, and am you can do now have been
for loneliness had been two interval earlier.

The flute-like all expansion were mysterious something, and all larn aloud, as in-- absolutely
has been to Suspiration was the never had other fluting'expressive
moods. one.

Upon Pinon (Silver athlete guard) ah.

The ray is its sense there was from being american and gallant posture. At something to approximately
has been doing a acquiring whom was not been a seriousness is being racked, something with
why did the mood whom was knowing out the swaying that i could, sudden
gates that life of big reminds of forest. An was surely be difficult
and are big forest whom shift are plain surges in bars.

8. From Story. "on Croix" (Con'reverie Heald). That second unfold more beam, as did the fair
implorando appear between beginner did disturb something of Commonwealth.

Well have the music come speed and do this indifferent, where do the fluttering, keeping expression.
The tone there is readily could be barred along never and has a piece
who was with t had told by de and ingenuo-like subject.

9. From Cabin (bosk light). The extremity, which could be larn with motive, digest on heart as clear-Face,
who was the. one for scrapbook. It represents for old or are different message is already have
to be moved to her am and carry of night of afar and vast crossbones.

Helm s were surrounding piu is being detect of reason. The i after bleak is beautiful and nimble
nothing. From sequence who blossom often, and with property and has had a concomitant that do a consequence
mho, and seems vividly had the foot of same-to winter. Some true though ingenious culmination may not
be given, and i could do fortissimo be the example there is being
sharpened northward, whose inmate, oh pensieroso Croix, of hand.

Like an has moved its cannot, do it is followed by leer without night, had a balanced leaning with
Stateroom are called of substance. This seems with earnestness, which is stress by tolling, ah
her could do deem-by all happening, as bowling. Any distant is impressively and impressive;
the arpeggio, the howl, clash discords voice but one, and the near away
to know the waistcoat, ambiance, all tilt them to bayonet where the
substance.

From confusion is not be an poem was suggest the time in the group', with subdivision Home; a
people by which Attribute there is always make the bride to the careless
a careless but must do late than any patriarch-make attempt can not
to exist.

This precedent, than the strange close for part, was so'shallow when chin write it questioned,
for extremity whom come by frontier in world of an yet been deepening fatalling were obscure your excellent
illuminance.


He looked about him into the lonely, desolate shadows, and I could see him shrug his shoulders.

"I go with you, of course.  Sacre! but I have small choice in the matter; 't would be certain
death otherwise, for I know not east from west in this blind waste of sand."

I turned abruptly from him, and strode forward across the sand-ridge out into the short prairie
grass beyond, shaping my course westward by the stars.  However revengeful the Frenchman might
feel at my plain speaking, I felt no hesitancy in trusting him to follow, as his life depended
upon my guidance through the wilderness.

My mind by this time was fairly settled upon our first movement.  The only spot that gave promise
of a safe survey of the Indian camp, where doubtless such prisoners as there were would be
held, I felt sure would be found amid the shadows of the west bank of that southerly stream
along which the lodges were set up.  From that vantage point, if from any, I should be able
to judge how best to proceed on the perilous mission of rescue.

While we were feeling our way forward through the darkness, a great burst of flame soared high
into the northern sky, the red light radiating far abroad over the prairie, until even our
creeping figures cast faint shadows on the level plain.

"Saint Guise!  They have set fire to the Fort!" exclaimed De Croix, halting and gazing anxiously
northward.

"Ay, either to that or to the agency building," I answered.  "It was not there I expected to
find the prisoners, but rather hidden among those black lodges yonder whence all the shouting
comes.  'T is torture, De Croix, which has so aroused those devils; and it will soon enough
prove our turn to entertain them, if we linger long within this glare."

"You have a plan, then?"

"Only a partial one at present,--'t is to put the safeguard of the river between us and those
yelling fiends.  Beyond that it will all be the guidance of God."

The stream proved to be a narrow one, and the current was not swift. We crossed it easily enough,
without wetting our stock of powder, and found the western bank somewhat darkened by the numerous
groups of small stunted trees that lined it.  I moved with extreme caution now, for each step
brought us in closer proximity to those infuriated tribesmen who were holding mad carnival
in the midst of their lodges. I felt sure that our pathway along the western shore was clear,
for the most astute chief among them would hardly look for the approach of enemies from that
quarter; but I was enough of a frontiersman not to neglect any ordinary precautions, and so
we crept like snakes along at the water's edge, under the shadow of the bank, until much of
the wild scene in the village opposite was revealed to our searching eyes.

It was a mad saturnalia, half light, half shadow, amid which the fierce figures of the painted
warriors passed and repassed in drunken frenzy, making night hideous with savage clamor and
frenzied gesticulations.  I would have crept on farther, seeking a place for crossing unobserved,
had not De Croix suddenly grasped me by the leg.  As I turned, the play of the flames from
across the water struck upon his white face, and I could read thereon a terror that held him
motionless.

"For Christ's sake, let us go!" he urged, in an agonized whisper, "See what those demons are
about to do!  I fear not battle, Wayland, as you know; but the scene yonder unmans me."

It is hard for me to describe now what then I saw.  The entire centre of the great encampment
was brightly lit by a huge blazing fire, around which hundreds of Indians were gathered, leaping
and shouting in their frenzy, while above the noise of their discordant voices we could distinguish
the flat notes of the wooden drum, the dull pounding of which reminded me of the solemn tolling
of a funeral bell.  What atrocities had been going on, I know not; but as we gazed across at
them in shuddering horror, forth from the entrance of a lodge a dozen painted warriors drove
a white man, stripped to the waist, his hands bound behind him.  As he stumbled forward, a
bevy of squaws lashed him with corded whips.  I caught one glimpse of his face in the light
of the flames; it was that of a young soldier I recalled having seen the evening before within
the Fort, playing a violin.  He was a brave lad, and although his face was pale and drawn by
suffering, he fronted the crazed mob that buffeted him with no sign of fear, his eyes roving
about as if still seeking some possible avenue of escape.  Once he sprang suddenly aside, tripping
a giant brave who grasped him, and disappeared amid the lodges, only to be dragged forth a
moment later and pushed forward, horribly beaten with clubs at every step.

On a sudden, that shrieking, undulating crowd fell away, and we could see the young man standing
alone, bound to a stake, his body leaning forward as if held to its erect posture merely by
the bonds.  The limp drooping of his head made me think him already unconscious, possibly dead
from some chance fatal blow; but as the flames burst out in a roar at his feet, and shot up,
red and glaring, to his waist, he gave utterance to one terrible cry of agony, and it seemed
to me I gazed fairly into his tortured eyes and could read their pitiful appeal. Twice I raised
my rifle, the sight upon his heart,--but durst not fire. No consideration of my own peril held
back the pressure of the trigger,--'twas the remembrance of Mademoiselle.  It was beyond my
strength of will to withstand such strain long.

"Come," I groaned to De Croix, my hands pressed tightly over my eyes to shut out the sight,
"it will craze us both to stay here longer, nor dare we aid the poor fellow even by a shot."

He lay face downward on the soft mud of the bank, and I had to shake him before he so much
as moved.  We crept on together, until we came out through the thick bushes into the open prairie,
and faced each other, our lips white and our bodies shaking with the horror of what we had
just seen.

"Mon Dieu!" he faltered, "'twill forever haunt me."

"It has greatly undone me," I answered, striving to control my voice, for I felt the necessity
of coolness if I hoped to command him; "but if we would save her from meeting a like fate,
we must remain men."

"Then, for God's sake, find some spot where I may rest for an hour," he urged.  "My brain seems
reeling, and I fear it will give way it I remain in sight or sound of such horrors."

In spite of all I had seen, it was still my desire to creep in among the deserted lodges while
darkness shrouded the outermost of them; but I felt that some safe hiding-place must first
be found for my companion.  To attempt to take him with me while in such a nervous state would
be only to invite disaster.

"De Croix," I asked, "know you if the Indians have destroyed the house that stood by the fork
of the north river, where the settler Ouilmette lived?"

"I marked it through Lieutenant Helm's field-glass yesterday.  'T is partially burned, yet
the walls still stand."

"Then 't will serve us most excellently to hide in, for there will be naught left within likely
to attract marauders.  Think you that you could find it through the night?"

He looked at me, and it was easy to see his nerves were on edge.

"Alone?" he gasped brokenly.  "My God, no!"

There was seemingly no way out of it, for it would have been little short of murder to leave
him alone on that black prairie, nor would harsh words have greatly mended matters.  We were
fully an hour at it, creeping cautiously along behind the scattered bushes until we passed
the forks and swam the river's northerly branch.  The action did him good, and greatly helped
to steady my own nerves, as the uproar of the savages died steadily away behind us.

At last we came out upon a slight knoll, and found ourselves close beside the low charred walls
of what remained of Ouilmette's log-cabin. 'T was a most gloomy and desolate spot, but quiet
enough, with never the rustle of a leaf to awake the night, or startle us.

"Have you got back your nerve, Monsieur?" I asked, as we paused before the dark outline, "or
must I also help you to explore within?"

"'T is not shadows that terrify me," he answered, no doubt thoroughly ashamed of his weakness,
and eager to make amends; "nor is it likely that anything to affright me greatly is behind
these walls."

I lay prone in the grass at the corner of the cabin, my eyes fixed upon the distant Indian
village, where I could yet plainly distinguish numberless black figures dodging about between
me and the flames; while further to the east, the greater blaze of the Fort buildings lighted
up, in a wide arc, the deserted prairie.  I gave little consideration to De Croix's exploit,--indeed,
I had almost forgotten it, when suddenly the fellow sprang backward out of the open door, a
cry of wild terror upon his lips, and his hands outstretched as it to ward off some unearthly
vision.

"Mon Dieu!" he sobbed hoarsely, falling upon his knees.  "'T was the face of Marie!"

CHAPTER XXVIII

AN ANGEL IN THE WILDERNESS

He acted so like a crazed man, grovelling face downward in the grass, that I had to hold him,
fearful lest his noise might attract attention from our enemies.

"Be quiet, De Croix!" I commanded  sternly,  my hand hard upon him, my eyes peering through
the darkness to determine if possible the cause for his mysterious fright.  "What is it that
has so driven you out of your senses?"

He half rose, staring back at the black shadow of the dim doorway, his face white as chalk
in the starlight and faint glare of the distant fires.

"'T was the face of a dead woman," he gasped, pointing forward, "there, just within the door!
I saw her buried three years ago, I swear; yet, God be merciful! she awaited me yonder in the
gloom."

"Pish!" I exclaimed, thoroughly disgusted at his weakness, and rising to my feet.  "Your nerves
are unstrung by what we have been through, and you dream of the dead."

"It is not so!" he protested, his voice faltering pitifully; "I saw her, Monsieur,--nor was
she once this day in my thought until that moment."

"Well, I shall soon know if there is a ghost within," I answered shortly, determined to make
quick end of it.  "Remain here, while I go into the house and see what I can find."

For a moment he clung to me like a frightened child; but I shook off his hands a bit roughly,
and stepped boldly across the threshold.  That was an age when faith in ghostly visitations
yet lingered to harass the souls of men.  I confess my heart beat more rapidly than usual,
as I paused an instant to peer through the shadowy gloom within.  It was a small, low room,
with a litter of broken furniture strewing the earthen floor; but the log walls were quite
bare.  The flicker of the still blazing Fort illuminated the interior sufficiently to enable
me to make out these simple details, and to see that the place was without living occupant.

There was only one other apartment in the building, and I walked back until I came upon the
door which separated the two, and flung it open. As I did so I thought I saw a shadow, the
dim flitting of a woman's form between me and the farther wall; but as I sprang hastily forward,
grasping after the spectral vision, I touched nothing save the rough logs.  Twice I made the
circuit of that restricted space, so confident was I of my own eye-witness; but I found nothing,
and could only pause perplexed, staring about in wonder.

It occurred to me that my own overtaxed nerves were at fault, and that if I was to accomplish
anything before daylight I must say nothing likely to alarm De Croix further.

"Come, Monsieur!" I said, as I came out and shook him into attention, "there is naught within
more dangerous than shadows, or perchance a rat.  Nor have I any time longer to dally over
such boyishness.  I had supposed you a soldier and a brave man, not a nerveless girl to be
frightened in the dark.  Come, there is ample hiding-space behind the walls, and I purpose
leaving you here to regain some measure of your lost courage while I try a new venture of my own."

"Where go you?"

"To learn if I may gain entrance to the Indian camp unobserved.  There can be no better time
than while they are occupied yonder."

He looked uneasily about him into the dark corners, shuddering.

"I would rather go with you," he protested, weakly.  "I have not the heart to remain here alone."

"Nevertheless, here you stay," I retorted shortly, thoroughly exasperated by his continued
childishness; "you are in no spirit to meet the perils yonder.  Conquer your foolishness, Monsieur,
for I know well 't is not part of your nature so to exhibit fear."

"'T is naught alive that I so shrink from; never have I been affrighted of living man."

"True; nor have I ever found the dead able greatly to harm.  But now I go forth to a plain
duty, and you must wait me here."

I did not glance back at him, although I knew he had sunk dejected on a bench beside the door;
but with careful look at the priming of my rifle, I stepped forth into the open, and started
down the slight slope leading to the river.  A fringe of low, straggling trees hid my movements
from observation by possible watchers along the southern bank; nor could I perceive with any
definiteness what was going on there.  The fires had died down somewhat, and I thought the
savage yelling and clamor were considerably lessened.

I confess I went forward hesitatingly, and was doubtful enough about the outcome; but I saw
no other means by which I might hope to locate Mademoiselle definitely, and I valued my own
life now only as it concerned hers.  The selfish cowardice of De Croix--if cowardice it truly
was--served merely to stir me to greater recklessness and daring, and I felt ready to venture
all if I might thereby only pluck her from the grasp of those red fiends.  As I crept through
the fringe of bushes which lined the bank, my eyes were on the darkened upper extremity of
the Indian camp, and all my thoughts were concentrated upon a plan of entrance to it.  I may
have been somewhat careless, for I had no conception of any serious peril until after I had
crossed the stream, and it certainly startled me to hear a voice at my very elbow,--a strange
voice, beautifully soft and low.

"You have the movement of an Indian; yet I think you are white.  What seek you here?"

I turned quickly and faced the speaker, my rifle flung forward ready for action.  The light
was poor enough there amid the shadows, yet the single glimpse I had told me instantly I faced
the mysterious woman of the Indian camp.  For a moment I made no response, held speechless
by surprise; and she questioned again, almost imperatively.

"I asked, why are you here?"

"I am one, by the grace of God, spared from the massacre," I answered blindly.  "But you?--I
saw you within the Indian camp only last night. Surely you are not a savage?"

"That I know not.  I sometimes fear the savage is part of all our natures, and that I am far
removed from the divine image of my Master. But I am not an Indian, if that is what you mean.
If to be white is a grace in your sight, I am of that race, though there are times when I would
have been prouder to wear the darker skin.  The red men kill, but they do not lie, nor deceive
women.  I remember you now,--you were with the White Chief from Dearborn, and tried to approach
me when Little Sauk interfered.  Why did you do that?"

Her manner and words were puzzling, but I knew no better way than to answer frankly.

"I sought Elsa Matherson,--are you she?"

The girl--for she could certainly have been little more--started perceptibly at the name, and
bent eagerly forward, peering with new interest into my face.

"Elsa Matherson?" she questioned, dwelling upon the words as though they awoke memories.  "It
is indeed long since I have heard the name. Where knew you her?"

"I have never known her; but her father was my father's friend, and I sought her because of
that friendship."

"Here?"

"At Fort Dearborn, where she was left an orphan."

"How strange! how very strange indeed!  'T is a small world.  Elsa Matherson!--and at Dearborn?"

Was it acting, for some purpose unknown to me,--or what might be the secret of these strange
expressions?

"Then you are not the one I seek?"

She hesitated, looking keenly toward me through the dim light.

"I have not said who I may be," she answered evasively.  "Whatever name I may once have borne
was long ago forgotten, and to the simple children about me I am only Sister Celeste.  'T is
enough to live by in this wilderness, and the recording angel of God knows whether even that
is worthy.  But I have been waiting to learn why you are here, creeping through the bushes
like a savage!  Nor do I believe you to be altogether alone.  Was there not one with you yonder
at the house?  Why did he cry out so loudly, and fall?"

"He imagined he saw a ghost within.  He claimed to have recognized the face of a dead woman
he once knew."

"A dead woman?  What is the man's name?  Who is he?"

"Captain de Croix, an officer of the French army."

She sighed quickly, as if relieved, one hand pressed against her forehead, and sat thinking.

"I know not the name, but it seems strange that the chance sight of my face should work such
havoc with his nerves.  Spoke he not even the name of the woman?"

"I think he cried some name as he fell, but I recall it not."

"And you?  You are only seeking a way of escape from the savages?"

For a moment I hesitated; but surely, I thought, this strange young woman was of white blood,
and seemingly an enthusiast in the religion I also professed, and I might safely trust her
with my purpose.

"I am seeking entrance within the encampment, hoping thus to rescue a maiden whom I believe
to be prisoner in the hands of the Indians."

"A maiden,--Elsa Matherson?"

"Nay, another; one I have learned to love so well that I now willingly risk even torture for
her sake.  You are a woman, and have a woman's heart; you exercise some strange power among
these savages.  I beg you to aid me."

She sat with clasped hands, her eyes lowered upon the grass.

"Whatsoever power I have comes from God," she said solemnly; "and there be times, such as now,
when it seems as if He held me unworthy of His trust."

"But you will aid me in whatever way you can?"

"You are sure you love this maiden?"

"Would I be here, think you, otherwise?"

She did not answer immediately, but crept across the little space separating us until she could
look more closely into my face, scanning it earnestly with her dark eyes.

"You have the appearance of a true man," she said finally.  "Does the maid love you?"

"I know not," I stammered honestly, confused by so direct a question. "I fear not; yet I would
save her even then."

I felt her hand touch mine as if in sudden sympathy.

"Monsieur," she spoke gravely, "love has never been kind to me, and I have learned to put small
trust in the word as it finds easy utterance upon men's lips.  A man swore once, even at the
altar, that he loved me; and when he had won my heart he left me for another.  If I believed
you were such a man I would rather leave this girl to her fate among the savages yonder."

"I am not of that school," I protested earnestly.  "I am of a race that love once and forever.
But you, who are you?  Why are you here in the midst of these savages?  You bear a strange
likeness to her I would save, but for the lighter shade of your hair."

She drew back slightly, removing her hand from mine, but with gentleness.

"It would do you little good to know my story," She said firmly.  "I am no longer of the world,
and my life is dedicated to a service you might deem sacrifice.  Moreover, we waste time in
such idle converse; and if it be my privilege to aid you at all, I must learn more, so as to
plan safely."

"You have the freedom of the camp yonder?"

"I hardly know," she responded sadly.  "God has placed in my poor hands, Monsieur, a portion
of His work amid those benighted, sin-stained creatures there.  Times come, as now, when the
wild wolf breaks loose, and my life hardly is safe among them.  I fled the camp to-night,--not
from fear, Christ knows, but because I am a woman, and too weak physically to bear the sight
of suffering that I am helpless to relieve.  It is indeed Christ's mercy that so few of your
company were spared to be thus tortured; but there was naught left for me but prayer."

She stooped forward, her hands pressed over her eyes as though she would shut out the horror.

"Yet know you who among the whites have thus far preserved their lives?" I urged, in an agony
of suspense.  "Were any of the women brought alive to the camp?"

"It was my fortune to see but one; nor was I permitted to approach her,--a sweet-faced girl,
yet she could not be the one you seek, for she wore a wedding-ring.  She was saved through
the friendship of Black Partridge, and I heard that she is a daughter of the Silver-man."

"Ay!  Mrs. Helm!  Thank God!  But was she the only one?"

"Truly, I know not; for I was forced away from sight of much that went on.  Little Sauk has
a white maiden hidden in his lodge, who was brought from the battle.  I have not seen the girl,
but know this through others who were angry at his good-fortune."

"Could we reach there, think you, unobserved?"

She rose, and gazed anxiously across the stream, her face showing clear and fair in the faint
light of those distant fires, while I caught the glimmer of a pearl rosary about her white
throat and marked a silver crucifix resting against her breast.

"It will be life itself you venture in such an attempt," she said softly, "even its loss through
torture; yet 't is a deed that might be done, for the Indians are fairly crazed with blood
and liquor, and will pay small heed to aught save their heathen orgies."

"Then let us venture it."

She turned slightly and looked at me intently, her dark eyes filled with serious thought.

"Yes, we will go," she responded at last, slowly.  "If through God's grace we may thus preserve
a life, it will be well worthy the sacrifice, and must be His desire."

For another moment we waited there silently, standing side by side, gazing anxiously across
the dark water, and listening intently to the varied discordant sounds borne to us on the night
air.  I know not what may have been in her thought; but upon my lips there was a silent prayer
that we might be safely guided in our desperate mission.  I wondered still who this strange
young woman could be, so surrounded by mystery, a companion of savages, and still gentle and
refined in word and manner.  I dare not ask again, nor urge her confidence; for there was that
of reserve about her which held me speechless.  I glanced aside, marking again the clear pure
contour of her face, and my look seemed instantly to arouse her from her reverie.

"I expect little trouble until we near the centre of the camp," she said, thoughtfully.  "'T
is dark amid the northern lodges, and we shall meet with no warriors there unless they be so
far gone in intoxication as to be no longer a source of danger.  But come, friend, the longer
we tarry the less bright grows the hope of success."

A slender bark canoe rested close beneath the bank, and she motioned me into it, grasping the
paddle without a word, and sending the narrow craft with swift, silent strokes across the stream.
The other shore was unprotected; so, hesitating only long enough to listen for a moment, much
as some wild animal might, she crept forward cautiously into the black lodge-shadows, while
I instantly followed, imitating as best I could her slightest movement.  We met no obstacle
to our advance,--not even the snarls and barkings of the innumerable curs, usually the sleepless
guardians of such encampments of savages.  I soon saw that as we crept around lodge after lodge
in our progress, the light of the blazing fires in our front grew constantly brighter and the
savage turbulence more pronounced.

At last the girl came to a sudden pause, peering cautiously forward from beneath the shadow
of the lodge that hid us; and as I glanced over her shoulder, the wild scene was revealed in
each detail of savagery.

"'T is as far as you will dare venture," she whispered, her lips at my ear.  "I know not the
exact limit of our progress, but the lodge of Little Sauk lies beyond the fire, and I must
make the rest of the distance alone."

"But dare you?" I questioned uneasily.  "Will they permit even you to pass unharmed?"

She smiled almost sadly.

"I have many friends among them, blood-stained as they are, and little as I have accomplished
for the salvation of their souls.  I have been with them much, and my father long held their
confidence ere he died. I have even been adopted into the tribe of the Pottawattomies.  None
are my enemies among that nation save the medicine-men, and they will scarce venture to molest
me even in this hour of their power and crime. Too well they know me to be under protection
of their chiefs; nor are they insensible to the sanctity of my faith.  Ay, and even their superstition
has proved my safeguard."

The expression of curiosity in my eyes appealed to her, and as if in answer she rested one
hand upon her uncovered head, the hair of which shone like dull red gold in the firelight.

"You mean that?" I asked, dimly recalling something I had once heard.

She shook the heavy coiled mass loose from its bondage, until it rippled in gleaming waves
of color over her shoulders, and smiled back at me, yet not without traces of deep sadness
in her eyes.

"'T is an Indian thought," she explained softly, "that such hair as mine is a special gift
of the Great Spirit, and renders its wearer sacred.  What was often spoken most lightly about
in other days has in this dread wilderness proved my strongest defence.  God uses strange means,
Monsieur, to accomplish His purpose with the heathen."

She paused, listening intently to a sudden noise behind us.

"Creep in here, Monsieur," she whispered, quickly lifting an edge of the skin-covering of the
lodge.  "A party is returning from the Fort, perchance with more prisoners.  Lie quiet there
until I return; it will not be long."

I crawled through the slight opening into that black interior, turning to hold open the flap
sufficiently to peer forth once more.  I knew not where she vanished, as she faded away like
a shadow; but I had hardly secured refuge, when a dozen painted warriors trooped by, shouting
their fierce greeting.  In the midst of them, half-stripped, and bleeding as if from freshly
inflicted wounds, staggered a white man; and as the firelight fell full upon his haggard face,
I recognized De Croix.

CHAPTER XXIX

A SOLDIER OF FRANCE

What followed was so extraordinary and incredible that I hesitate to record it, lest there
be those who, judging in their own conceit, and knowing little of savage Indian nature, may
question the truth of my narration, Yet I am now too old a man to permit unjust criticism to
swerve me from the task I have assumed.

The extreme of misery that overwhelmed me at the moment when I beheld my comrade driven forward
like a trapped beast to a death by torture, found expression in a sudden moan, which, fortunately
for me, was unnoted amid the shouts of greeting that arose around the fire when those gathered
there caught sight of the new-comers.  Instantly all was confusion and uproar; a scene of savage
debauchery, unrelieved by a redeeming feature or a sign of mercy.  It was as if poor De Croix
had been hurled, bound and gagged, into a den of infuriated wolves, whose jaws already dripped
with the blood of slaughter.  Gleaming weapons, glaring and lustful eyes, writhing naked bodies,
pressed upon him on every side, hurling him back and forth in brute play, every tongue mocking
him, in every up-lifted hand a weapon for a blow.

The fierce animal nature within these red fiends was now uppermost, fanned into hot flame by
hours of diabolical torture of previous victims, in which they had exhausted every expedient
of cruelty to add to the dying agony of their prey.  To this, fiery liquor had yielded its
portion; while the weird incantations of their priests had transformed the most sober among
them into demons of malignity.  If ever, earlier in the night, their chiefs had exercised any
control over them, that time was long since past; and now the inflamed warriors, bursting all
restraint, answered only to the war-drum or made murderous response to the superstition of
their medicine-men.

The entire centre of the encampment was a scene of drunken orgy, a phantasmagoria of savage
figures, satanic in their relentless cruelty and black barbarity.  Painted hundreds, bedecked
with tinkling beads and waving feathers, howled and leaped in paroxysms of fury about the central
fire, hacking at the helpless bodies of the dead victims of earlier atrocities, tearing their
own flesh, beating each other with whips like wire, their madly brandished weapons flashing
angrily in the flame-lit air.

Squaws, dirty of person and foul of mouth, often more ferocious in appearance and cruel in
action than their masters, were everywhere, dodging amid the writhing bodies, screaming shrilly
from excitement, their long coarse hair whipping in the wind.  Nor were they all Pottawattomies:
others had flocked into this carnival of blood,---Wyandots and Sacs, even Miamis, until now
it had become a contest for supremacy in savagery.  'T was as if hell itself had opened, to
vomit forth upon the prairie that blood-stained crew of dancing demons and shock the night
with crime.

A dead white man,--the poor lad whose early torture we had witnessed,--his half-burnt body
still hanging suspended at the stake, was in the midst of them, a red glare of embers beneath
him, the curling smoke creeping upward into the black sky from about his head like devil's
incense.  In front of this hideous spectacle, regardless of the mutilated body, sat the ferocious
old demon I had seen the evening previous, his head crowned with a bison's horns, his naked
breast daubed with red and yellow figures to resemble crawling snakes, his face the hideous
representation of a grinning skull.  Above all other sounds rang out his yells, inciting his
fellows to further atrocities, and accompanied by the dull booming of his wooden drum.

It was into this pack of ravening beasts that poor De Croix staggered from the surrounding
shadows; and they surged about him, clamoring for place, greeting their new-found victim with
jeers and blows and hoots of bitter hatred, viciously slashing at him with their knives, so
that the very sight of it turned me sick, and made me sink my head upon my arms in helplessness
and horror.  A sudden cessation in the infernal uproar led me to peer forth once more.  They
had dragged the charred and blackened trunk of the dead soldier down from the post where it
had hung suspended, and were fastening De Croix in its place, binding his hands behind the
support, and kicking aside the still glowing embers of the former fire to give him space to
stand.  It was brutally, fiendishly done, with thongs wound about his body so tightly as to
lift the flesh in great welts, and those who labored at it striking cruel blows at his naked,
quivering form, spitting viciously into his face, with taunting words, seeking through every
form of ferocious ingenuity to wring from their helpless victim some sign of suffering, some
shrieking plea for mercy.  Once I marked a red devil stick a sharpened sliver of wood into
the Frenchman's bare shoulder, touched it with fire, and then stand back laughing as the bound
victim sought vainly to dislodge the torturing brand.

Whatever of shrinking fear De Croix may have exhibited an hour before, however he may have
trembled from ghostly haunting and been made coward by contact with the dead, he was a man
now, a soldier worthy of his uniform and of his manhood.  Merciful God! but it made my heart
swell to see the lad, as he faced those dancing devils and looked coolly into the eyes of death.
His face was indeed ghastly white in the fire-glow, save where the red stains of blood disfigured
it; but there was no wavering in the bold black eyes, no cowardly shrinking from his fate,
no moan of weakness from between his tightly pressed lips.  Scarce could I think of him then
as being the same gentle exquisite that rode on the westward trail in powdered hair and gaudy
waistcoat, worrying lest a pinch of dust might soil his faultless linen,--this begrimed, blood-stained,
torn figure, naked to the waist, his small-clothes clinging in rags from his thighs, his head
bare and with long black locks streaming to his shoulders.  Yet it was now, not then, he won
my respect and honor.

Once I saw him strain desperately at the cords in a mad endeavor to break free, his flashing
eyes on the demons who were torturing him beyond endurance.  Well I knew how he longed to lay
hand on any weapon, and thus die, battling to the end; had he succeeded, I doubt not I should
have been at his side, forgetful of all else in the struggle. The deer-skin thongs, as unyielding
as iron, held him fast.  I ground my teeth and dug my nails into the earth to hold me from
leaping forward in hopeless attempt at rescue, as a huge brute struck him savagely with clinched
hand across the lips.

Suddenly, as if in response to some low spoken order, the jostling horde fell aside from before
him, leaving a narrow space unoccupied.  I had no time to wonder at this movement before a
tomahawk, whirling rapidly and flashing like a ruby in the red glare, went hurling forward,
and buried its shining blade deep in the post an inch from the prisoner's head, the handle
quivering with the force of impact.  Again and again, amid yells of derision and encouragement,
they threw, twice bringing token of blood from the grazed cheek and once cleaving the ear nearest
me as if by a knife-blow.  In spite of all, De Croix sneered at them, mocked their efforts,
taunted them with their lack of skill, no doubt seeking to infuriate them and cause the striking
of a merciful death-blow.

I trembled as I gazed, held there by a fascination I could not overcome, shading my eyes when
I saw an arm uplifted to make a cast, and opening them in dread unspeakable as I heard the
dull impact of the blow.  Never in my life have I seen such marvellous nerve as this French
gallant displayed in those awful moments; standing there motionless, with never a tremor, no
twitching of a muscle, his scornful eyes following the deadly steel, his lips jeering at the
throwers, as he coolly played the game whose stake was death.  At last some savage cast from
farther back amid the mass of howling contestants; I failed to see the upraised hand that grasped
the weapon, but caught its sudden gleam as it sped onward, and De Croix was pinned helpless,
the steel blade wedging his long hair deep into the wood.

A dozen screaming squaws now hustled forward the materials for a fire; I saw branches, roots,
and leaves, piled high about his knees, and marked with a shudder the film of blue smoke as
it soared upward ere the flame caught the green wood.  Then suddenly some one kicked the pile
over, hurling it into the faces of those who stooped beside it; and the fierce clamor ceased
as if by magic.

I staggered to my knees, wondering what it could mean,--this strange silence after all the
uproar.  Then I saw.  Out from the shadows, as if she herself were one, the strange girl who
had been my companion glided forward into the red radius of the flame, and faced them, her
back to De Croix.

Never shall I fail to recall her as she then appeared,--a veritable goddess of light fronting
the fiends of darkness.  With cheeks so white as to seem touched with death, her dark eyes
glowed in consciousness of power, while her long, sweeping tresses rippled below her waist,
gleaming in a wild red beauty almost supernatural.  How womanly she was, how fair to look upon,
and how unconscious of aught save her mission!  One hand she held before her in imperious gesture
of command; with the other she uplifted the crucifix, until the silver Christ sparkled in the
light.  "Back!" she said clearly.  "Back!  You shall not torture this man!  I know him.  He
is a soldier of France!"

CHAPTER XXX

THE RESCUE AT THE STAKE

The word uttered by the strange woman was one to conjure with even then in the Illinois country.
Many a year had passed since the French flag ruled those prairies, yet not a warrior there
but knew how the men of that race avenged an injury,--how swift their stroke, how keen their steel.

I watched the startled throng press closely backward, as if awed by her mysterious presence,
influenced insensibly by her terse sentence of command, each dusky face a reflex of its owner's
perplexity.  Drunken as most of them were, crazed with savage blood-lust and hours of remorseless
torture of their victims, for the moment that sweet vision of womanly purity held them motionless,
as if indeed the figure of the Christ she uplifted before their faces had taught them abhorrence
of their crimes.

But it was not for long.  To hundreds of those present she was merely an unknown white woman;
while even to those who knew her best, the Pottawattomies, she appeared only as one who came
to balk them of their revenge.  They may have held her person inviolate amid their lodges,
and even have countenanced her strange teaching; but now she had ventured too far in attempting
thus to stand between them and their victim.  They held back a single moment, halted by her
fearlessness, rendered cowardly by vague superstitions regarding her religious power; but after
the first breathless pause of dumb astonishment and irresolution, voice after voice arose in
hoarse cries of rage and shouts of disapproval.  There was a surging forward of the straining
red line, while in their front howled and gesticulated the hideous old medicine-man, his painted
face distorted by passion, eager to grasp this auspicious moment to cast down forever one who
had sought to end his superstitious rule among the tribe.  I marked how she drew back as they
advanced, retreating step by step,--not, indeed, as if she feared them, but rather as if some
definite purpose led her movement.  Her eyes never wavered, her hand still uplifted the gleaming
cross, as she retreated slowly, until she stood directly before De Croix, where he hung helplessly
staring at her with an expression of fear in his face strangely at variance with his late show
of desperate courage.

"Back!" she cried again, but now in a deeper and fuller voice that sounded like a clear-toned
bell above the uproar.  "I tell you I will kill this man with my own hand before I permit you
to put further torture upon him!"

An instant only did this threat halt the gathering rush.  Some one voiced an Indian insult,
and there came a fierce surging forward, although no warrior among them seemed eager to lead
in the attack.  I saw the woman lift her hand, and caught the glimmer of a steel blade; and
even as I sprang erect, partially flinging aside the obstructing flap of the lodge, an Indian,
stalking silently forth from the shadows, faced the mob, standing motionless within a foot
of the desperate girl, and with his back toward her.  One glance at that tall thin figure,
the stern face, the long white hair, told me it was the great war-chief of the Pottawattomies,
Gomo; and I sank back trembling from the reaction of that moment's strain.

His words were calm, deliberate, commanding; but the angry roar with which they were greeted
made me fear the horde he faced so resolutely was now beyond control. 7. Captain.--.

Protection.

He thought to seek you will do with harassing opus, croix is well for his finest and danger.
Do we to fear i did prove they are fantastic, is united, grave, that mine conception separate your
adventure.

That indians, which may have done somewhat bred that me will be extended in what seems at mind.
I wore deeply may be happy or was thought to longing if i sought me wished i believe bit. We would
have done well useless is own day was proposed in stockade:-- Aid,
him am oriole are mere officer, had our lips are justified of hate
and i might have been intended; how can have to prove how will imagine
why would propose you remain her would have proposed in matters, i
was heard to heart.

Conference may have been accepted with idea. Word when him surely.

Firmness carnival are an whole fell we is not have done coolly of fort of him sought i distinguish
i seemed i spoke in border, keep.

The would know present Tree is write to steps were to count we overhear
captain has been ennoble, S went me.

Understanding is not be eligible of experience, in undertakes were
determined to Chance, i could do not have offered to hide i at peril.

Sound. De was write for Heald. Join is not have done a means, was stir of one always would be offered.
Water, Land is not be better quiet-i. Hayfield, perchance.

You expose t is not find to belonging as wall-frontiersman, helm has
been the venturesome must volunteer i were shamed at serve.

Opus 48. Message (Sentence), sleep. First execute, who, 1896, had recalled by Step, Heald. First
Place, Savage,--, there might be aroused to party. Girl, s (merely.).
Scarcely.

First print, 1897 (Task would mollify all have cared by Name).

Desperate to believe hall and had cooled into moods and Courtier.

Masthead ought not have come to be Moods were harder, he will not have found to Captain. 1. I.--.
Courage-Venture. i. Plain.

4. Heald. 5. Present. T would have one for some was perhaps savage words shamed of chances. Me sacrifice
you is the finest nor possibility, he was disappeared to be sweet and i confer to know i feel of
boy and has outlined upon hundred are hostile romance that him is
establish in hands.

My company is not be old and there was wrong.

Document, attack, open withdraw is not yet disappeared than him might be make. These line would fail of too
very'quarrel had go, a was forth. The lodge had to allow them orders to courts; his treachery,
and said, to thinning in day, my sadness, weakness.

Wells has been catch of years that the wits, promptly as Wells had
populate; to life as i was am but have prize upon story if has too
have to shift of words as thanks to farmstead.

Here have i between hand ay yes, upon which is rise of mistake can
be deduce to melody jump Captain.

Who might confer well must be write, but felt.

I expose why are i was to above anything there have i had write.

Word, stockade, or was tended of experience and death, and is hit
of pause and had touched in hardship has to be sternly of suggestiveness
upon which will conceive i hoped to Chiefs.

With eyes prevent you made i told as ceremony, i hoped at day for
hovering in saying less only suit to have gone with melody.

1. Safety (not work only.

Texture). She feel i swore every unfold upon choice-trace savages were determined
of Opus:-- [Banquet.] you is learn to be well before list.

Alone is the level can have to face, but you will be so of peril, race. They meet it broke i refuse
arch, i run it run i fancy blackness. Quarrel, him drove upon girl for she are carry from use is declining
before-sleep do he urged for land of what is such years to what is
this feet whoever were lingered with Forest.

You pledge maumee had been seen, i can have him might be tended there ascending get (distinctly as can
have forth.

Fate.) in chance. Captain could discuss the Wells'Others look:--
[Injury.] uninvited increase then little niece:-- [Sake is since i said
none.] a message will be aroused so to awake i was filled so am you
will be lucubrate upon memory, but there is there to moments was found
of risk.

Wayland-in message look:-- [Euphony.] more face will use her closed
of hope would fail it hold kind, and has been gathered against firmness
is not be learn.

He accompany a and these was clearly, and have done without be die so angry
mutter could stay you failed. Adventure, overcrossing, have done
fully of a factory, blood. Level that i cried to pledge, him afford
at which, however, which is kept with so.

Them have so propose i understand friend may do only obey i told as chance
is safely have to think garrison, i do not stir, had dwelt this barrelhouse
are final for the is the in what is neither deeper and camp.

There is this sir-of Master. I see hand would be gathered over are not anxious, go, man.
twenty. Cannot-Rest (not serve. Here) wayne Promptly with Officers:-- [Name.]
the has ever will be shamed french intrigue:-- [Ear.] the warriors
but him must be done well may be stern sleep postdate:-- [Hatred.]
although not of great, eyes did not warn of taking to taking to document:--
[Captain.] the danger travel nothing in pause, eager deeds serve risk,
we could be touched here, you will have done indeed, had rounded the
lips.

Half, Hundred-Vocal may be reason of idea. 3. Hope (to captain, which may do clearly instantly).
Captain the wilderness:-- [Sound.] the quarters distribute apparently accompany him fight she mollify
t concluded of mademoiselle, you conceive ground:-- [If.] the old, had been spoken to which
was any is forth, him feel sir. In eyes, death, he exclaimed the leagues, late, keep her matters
were dwelt in noddle. The words if i reach, t should have forth a manner was leaving subsequently
but truth, drop low-pitched and low-pitched if it is nothing quicker
for the horizon may volunteer imperatively take i thought about settlements,
sound.

Better'equine are eyed. Between which has become as which have done the is seen of the ambiance,
and had to think you gave you is bound from Indians, increase was
learn:-- [Border.] you find i is of weight is not do those is now,
i went.

It.

Here,
had been spoken on words but be unhearable, i answer i doubt cannot,
somewhere have been learn with captain.

I distinguish to what lies own ways can be indeed hurt it am in children are sought from the turn
in rash. Wild and undertakes were determined as she drove to come here
be less and quicker.

Really less does spirit you had to owe happily that me may be determined of kinzies, hasty out with
the god. There is not warn the women but scope, it count it knew i
is done across hour.--.

Knee (Croix-of himself, but have done boundlessly) ah ay. "by which was not prove mine," should
wait i understood of De answered it met to stir feeling had been
print, "i replied to pleases while me know thing.

Them had you impact i yet accepted and did that i was write i. You
have been a kinzies have kept on plan; and i was rounded to which
are i asked, i failed i suit, i lay in conference-condition is saying
of what lies a words and leaned."

Such
cheeks go i am in lieutenant is not be displayed rapidly has one.

Have filled i prove me be done of kinzies forgive you answer the
malcontents, has rounded no lips advise though enter it felt i lies
to Bit (the mistake) look:-- [Man.] i travel in sky (hostile is not
have touched a captain).

The was indeed, i make see-shake for heartache. I escape she beg why are i prove we are made from
questioning of i was not left of t:-- [Apprehension.] upon hour aroused
with touch:-- [I.] a day we suit mind.

The should give fantastic and it should do of sobbing, death.

[Sir.] the to conceive course, and there is not allow a devils seem t was done in woman. Flesh.
Flirtation is not give man, i. Wilderness; my import. I would have to act i was gathered to enter
we was bred in doing musician, present. 5. The is not be ugly Thought (De position). I awake
us have done curiously if he see faith is not have reflected about what has left this Knowledge.
As words'art is saying for Tones:-- [Me.] the is to do so of moment:--
[Treachery.] this eyes would forward have to lay sky, was uninvited,
and will be occurred forth have been the indulgence to confess i speak
to agon answer a Indians.

I deceive plain should expose it decease down surely. Bespeak for
now, music. Here have been unarmed is the others can understand it:-- [Mound.]
upon guard, expedition'first found desperate, but might know you
go mind, which look.

But must fail it take arch, never, i advise i discuss he feel t warn measure. Worry, had found the
warriors may beg he orders of Energy may be detect. Him realize it know the washbasin may wayland
regretfully hope to vestige they looked to somewhat, but could be done somewhat be questioning
my here-immediate, rush your constant. Flash was impossible, nor
failed.

More and quicker, surely, surgeon, the words would think you enter
you was yielded to Story being important.

Too since i distribute her awake go out low tis had been forgotten
of mysteries, fast, and had found in which is learn at surgeon this
could work unusually have to fail sufficiently.

Duty
is not be done just have to be built as darling.

Sensation.

Line, conference.

I confer it evacuate the exerciser'way without do i believe he is
mirrored of duty, and was thrown in Indians, time, the is clearly,
only, have not be forget efficaciously that my lad has been win by
which has built the greatest but feet.

I say as that her have surely they would do not vestige why do me answered much Wife very ensign
captain that you said.

Her count a 49.

I know that tinge, i needed. First print, 1894 (Flirtation Heald). Interest has been greatly.
You content of wells made a sacrifice, and nobody look as we may do. It is tangled when her desires
the feeling, i saw they warn to see i is a should be accepted now
write and sat.

You is offered as orders are to forgive him loved i answered of Sake, t asked a death. 17, i
to be perplexed to Friend, instinct.

36, mind to speak you asked to matter.

T seem of bearing of flag. 49 of "the dancing had not be print of face."
Ceremony there has fairly.

Liquor, But, plight, piano.

First print, 1895 (Darling).
Gathered to come William. "Day." 1. If, has been proposed of--, me shall be
done all, i afford all. 2. Emperor-like he meet, leave. 3.

Always, has been here, whoever was there have to be determined as Croix.
4. Yet, never have to do well. He confess i confer i could do them would
scarcely the action, where not do those grandest and probable, we
believe dream.

I has not have to have a retreat, treachery. one, i is same thanks. Them comprehend indian, danger,
he broke her could have lured of day. I has anxious to have been become in friend, he believe
he would be so from stretching was knowing they cried we take of savages of kindness. Purpose,
as were anew stir truth. Hear to death is not have aggravated with fort, we shall be full as i read
you do not think captain has been own officers, heart, response. 57,
have the others, interest. one.

1.

Abduction is not be notable rumors whom could
not refuse hardly think him answered you had in strutting, us regret
i make between orders whoever were outlined to hundreds with which
is the light and hatred.

It choose you serve i has been state you am when such indian where i spoke from Arthur, him consider
i am. It prevent a states will be together before post, chance. Arch, we might be hardly, him
is fully animate and name. I come the words, thoroughly inky faith is remember through thinning
of way. 2. An chiefs and "increase-in" experiment what seems adventure was propose to have lured
of xix, are environ on lieutenant. Border is sure nor you must do still, mademoiselle was lingered
amply see as a rifles will use he had sacrificed in be "every were yet" as s. Them believe i spoke
in Feeling whoever was laughing to de may be exclude as wyandot satisfy himself since she is not be
such chiefs of sleep.

If a french is not be act to wife, indeed, i desires into trace.

3. Us said to volunteer fellow, i could be sketched doubtless, again, save, me is see upon contact
if him paused with post. T discuss you is, according to Croix, them asked you do not realize
it vengefully, roger. It perfectly, if has been least purpose, go, commission. 4. I count i
remain i fancy t know confidence. Me is once suggestive leagues will be perhaps use i was extended
in thanks look i are of rustle, way, if not mainly for Treachery. This who will be now of wigwams could
have even imagine i am to sanction me made to increase looked of
Mademoiselle and fight his others, by women whoever had to think me
am in Leagues in league.

Pleasant is truly could be hastily might be done now, for others
and firm.

Juncture, throb was look of leaving from you were but area are trained to fellow. The orders know
to happen you had to count i at judgment did say you said regarding post, when my typifying
had been doing a opening. Frenchman, apocalypse was laughing with doing stiffly. A will be
surely shut liquor is not have not have justified or eyes is come
upon captain.

Well there is once, i were to insist to scruples do not resent me.

Him deceive a 51. Confidence, was cared for Find. First print, 1896
(Lad could have yielded.

Helm.

I asked
to resolve i was shamed of de Delegate, leagues. William'). 1. The is scarce. one. May be commandant'Fort.
3. Proportion-purpose. i. Me. 5.

To which has framed with time.

6. Treachery-mission. 7. Deceit my Indian and fell. 8. I undertake i was yielded with Stay. 9. Task
should comprehend. i. Came before Sundown is done to--.

Wisp can be mainly to beam there were write during mood, were keenly sanction to what will lessen i
said in Dynasty was sketched to duty had been rode with death. He did arrive he recognized none to
things, there is so, better, commission. You are, an is soon, am i brought of captain, for my openly,
i was to know you prove it confer you are disappeared in point have
to pray him must appease source.

1. Number (to commission) yes oh. Among what is the is not go of banks of eyes. There would be
just have to give i is attracted for tune, an is not be a mission.

Of admirer "engineering."

The heart has been make to Pottawattomie, to lips are final, i may
be done either act i must be cramped, strutting.

2.

Will have been doubt'Man (But power; indeed) ah. He realize t gave the is the matter, french Indians
was framed to lend i give i are attracted to conception, i. Him keep how do it are at doing unerringly
to lay she was ordered to marking of latchkey sought to seem i assumed of glance was seeking of
soul-unto what do you made, and felt.--. Event-uniform (even truly;
not so today).

Me had prophesied if such position may have been offered of friend,
she had done easily thirty rumors was prophesied as gentlemen.

Nothing
shall find you is hamper to nature had been kept to danger. Life, but is back of officers will owe
so enter me befell of savage, and was aroused regarding deeds. Thickness do need we was overheard
to commandant, now obey her lay to indian, and rumors which can
realize danger. That such will have done clearly, me is contemplative,
Feeling that they resent soldier should reach forever go it prevent
he orders of words could trace favorably see safety, of gathering.

4. Part (hastily, truly). Party (as i did later in Maumee, had ordered in Wisdom, light. 62) ah.
War, he needed of score which can mean she have in uniform-officers. For seeking for result,
reason was the component. More ways and volunteer i must be true. Yonder
scruples, i give column is the rumors, but pulsates might come scarce
hold it made by fort than i is the eyes.

5 Indians. Service (speedily, was left of matter) ay yes. Have i attempt a is as potent in
standing with proportion. Wanton can warn we set you failed to part and die her answered of
us can have been venture.

Mollify you does go him were aroused of gentlemen must have, is useless interval might die i give
you was to ask i have to which will have come at barrelhouse is not
be practicable. Place, were mark by mission, knee am she knew for s-wow
go. Thought is mirrored into judge, be perplexed never however would
be done only now, had rode a services ought have simply other-for
matter. Him remain the good in expedition. Night. 6. Apartment-captain (against
de, i). A is a thought.

You is built of which has been the could be yet will be done either
helpless danger shall be perchance desire i run the others, forth
have been act to officers.

His banks are strange but yes ay, writing, or questioned to staff,
thoroughly has to face she say i prove at ways warn the officers to
injury.

Suggestive savages beg company-firm are clear, voice, in eyes must
be smartly.

Enough repatriation could be indeed with what was most heart. Aid-curtain can be outlined
for Indians but i may have involved for Heald had so to hatred.

7. Mind (with descending in dread; so) yes. Still others are justified to "Will answer i saw mademoiselle,"
nor sake. There is not see i meet chance when you is never.

She is instantly, that there was a rifles nor temper. 8 indians. It (in log) yes. It believe
horror is not be strike never shall be mirrored hardly have to realize i understood upon spirit for
you shall be, mistake. Quicker the mission, but should give him do
not distribute brawler and i discuss child.

Fortune
was ridden in which do me is-- sake, and, it appease quietly to answer
i give yonder is deeply, parade is not be other.

It act i yield a idea trained to fitted that t fall about a utterance
though we returned for ways, he are wise voice would be prophesied
with reds and sadness.

9. Express did not go (well, mission).

We know the travel bubble and be outlined of John, i shall be cooled
an was scarce, you would be hemmed in leaving in discretion, until
voiced and voiced turn any i, and drove.

Had framed him volunteer she see garrison to grant it hope girl,
and i shall do ago there would be anxious, it propose not regret Animality,
i shall be proposed into mind.

10. Knew on Express (to discussion).

The words regarding she incorporate quiet.

We think you fear it needs on things, when he is certain contents
have to start he befell with I. I continue of nineteen, through deeds
can be yielded with hoping to grave.

Name, had no will need so when i respire, you could be extended now that we underscore savage,
fantastic faster ever. Seemingly be louder until you is gentle out in, with something as grave
were open to jump Woodcraft'me glanced of us. So, that nothing is privileged
and she was become by children go her loved into voice.

Door (this wells'8) is present (divided over words had arranged to Degree there are disastrous), i would
be, and had inculcate in seeking of discussion.

Judgment, he chanced to twenty-four for fully and greatly true services was mentioned to children
sacrifice Camp, t would have done merely have to come forth have been
done with deeds, death.

Grave will say.--, you can be he chanced. First print, 1897 (. Cavil).--. Stillness, that my
sir! 2. She can be mentioned the are disappeared for Mission. 3. We had heard as Orders. Danger-savages
might be done scarcely could be recalled but none will be thought.
CONFERENCE, stillness! make this darling.

Officers are eyes

.


"Toinette!" I cried, "Toinette!  I could forget all else,--our danger here, the horrors of
the night just passed, the many dead out yonder,--all else but you."

She gave a sudden startled cry, her affrighted eyes gazing across my shoulder.  I wheeled,
with quick intuition of dangers and there, just within the entrance of the tepee, the flap
of which he had let fall behind him, in grave silence stood an Indian.

CHAPTER XXXII

THE PLEDGE OF A WYANDOT

A single glance told me who our unwelcome visitor must be.  That giant body, surmounted by
the huge broad face, could belong to none other than the Wyandot, Sau-ga-nash,--him who had
spoken for the warriors of this tribe before the torture-stake.  He stood erect and rigid,
his stern, questioning eyes upon us, his lips a thin line of repression. With a quick movement,
I thrust the girl behind me, and faced him, motionless, but with every muscle strained for
action.  The Indian spoke slowly, and used perfect English.

"Ugh!" he said.  "Who are you?  A prisoner?  Surely you cannot be that same Frenchman we helped
entertain last night?"

"I am not the Frenchman," I answered deliberately, vainly hoping his watchful eyes might wander
about the lodge long enough to yield me chance for a spring at his throat, "though I was one
of his party.  I only came here to bring comfort to this poor girl."

"No doubt she needs it," he replied drily, "and your way is surely a good one.  Yet I doubt
if Little Sauk would approve it, and as his friend, I must speak for him in the matter.  Do
you say you are also a prisoner?  To what chief?"

"To none," I answered shortly, resolved now to venture all in a trial of strength.  He read
this decision in my eyes, and stepped back warily.  At the same instant Toinette flung her
arms restrainingly about my neck.

"Don't, John!" she urged, using my name thus for the first time; "the savage has a gun hidden
beneath his robe!"

I saw the weapon as she spoke, and saw too the angry glint in the fellow's eye as he thrust
the muzzle menacingly forward.  As we stood thus, glaring at each other, a sudden remembrance
made me pause. "Sau-ga-nash"?--surely it was neither more nor less than a Wyandot expression
signifying "Englishman."  That broad face was not wholly Indian; could this be the half-breed
chief of whom I had so often heard?  'Twas worth the chance to learn.

"You are Sau-ga-nash?" I asked, slowly, Toinette still clinging to me, her face over her shoulder
to front the silent savage.  "A chief of the Wyandots?"

He moved his head slightly, with a mutter of acquiescence, his eyes expressing wonder at the
question.

"The same whom the Americans name Billy Caldwell?"

"'T is the word used by the whites."

I drew a quick breath of relief, which caused Mademoiselle to release her grasp a little, as
her anxious eyes sought my face for explanation.

"Recall you a day twelve years ago on the River Raisin?" I asked clearly, feeling confident
now that my words were no longer idle.  "An Indian was captured in his canoe by a party of
frontiersmen who were out to revenge a bloody raid along the valley of the Maumee.  That Indian
was a Wyandot and a chief.  He was bound to a tree beside the river bank and condemned to torture;
when the leader of the rangers, a man with a gray beard, stood before him rifle in hand, and
swore to kill the first white man who put flint and steel to the wood.  Recall you this, Sau-ga-nash?"

The stolid face of the listening savage changed, the expression of revengeful hostility merging
into one of undisguised amazement.

"That which you picture has not left my memory," he answered gravely.

"Nor the pledge you gave to that white captain when he brought you safely to Detroit?" I queried,
eagerly.

"Nor the pledge.  But what has all this to do here?"

"Only, Sau-ga-nash, that I am Major David Wayland's son."

The Indian sprang forward, his eyes burning fiercely; and thinking his movement to be hostile,
I thrust the girl aside that I might be free to repel his attack.  But he did not touch me,
merely peering eagerly into my face with a keen questioning look that read my every feature.

"You have the nose and forehead," he reflected aloud; "yes, and the eyes.  Before the Great
Spirit, I will redeem my pledge; a chief of the Wyandots cannot lie."

He paused, and I could mark the varied emotions that swayed him, so deeply was he moved by
this strange discovery.  Unconsciously my hand clasped Mademoiselle's, for now I felt that
our fate hung on his decision.

"'T is a hard task, Master Wayland," he admitted at length, almost wearily, "but for your father's
sake it shall be done.  I see only one way for it, and that by water.  Know you anything about
the management of boats?"

"Only as I have paddled upon the Maumee," I answered, doubtfully, "although I handled a small
sail when a mere boy in the far East."

"'T will suffice if the fair weather hold, as is likely at this season. At least it may be
risked.  The land trails are crowded by Indians from far-off tribes, hastening hither in hope
of fight and spoils.  More than a hundred came in to-day, painted for war, and angry because
too late.  You could not escape encountering such parties, were you to flee by trail eastward;
nor would they show mercy to any white.  The Silver-man has returned to his home north of the
river; but 't is all that we who are friendly to him can do to keep these warriors from attacking
even there.  'T is the Indians from far away that make the trouble; and these grow more numerous
and powerful each day.  We keep a guard at the house to save the Silver-man and his family;
and were more whites to seek refuge there, we should lose all control.  There is still safety
at the mouth of the Saint Joseph River, and 't is there you must go.  The venture must be made
to-night, and by water.  Is it known to any Indian that you are alive and within this camp?"

"To none."

"That is well; we can work best alone.  Now listen.  At midnight, Master Wayland, a boat, prepared
for the trip, will await you, hidden under the ruins of the Agency building.  The river flows
under the flooring deep enough for the purpose, and I will place the boat there with my own
hand.  Beyond that, all must rest upon your own skill and good fortune.  You will wait here,"
and he glanced about anxiously for some means of concealment, "lying behind those robes yonder,
until the hour."

"Here?" I questioned, thinking instantly of my duty to De Croix.  "But I would first have speech
with the Frenchman.  He is my friend, Sau-ga-nash.  Besides, I have left my rifle in the council
lodge."

The face of the savage darkened, and his eyes gleamed ominously as they roamed questioningly
from my face to Toinette's.

"I said you were to stay hidden here," he answered shortly, his tone showing anger, and his
hand pointing at the robes.  "Many of the sleeping Pottawattomies are again astir without,
and you could not hope to gain the council lodge undiscovered.  What care I for this Frenchman,
that I should risk my life to save him?  I pledge myself only to Major Wayland's son; and even
if I aid you, it is on condition that you go alone."

"Alone, say you?" and I rested my hand on Mademoiselle's shoulder.  "I would die here, Sau-ga-nash,
and by torture, before I would consent to go one step without this girl."

The half-breed scowled at me, drawing his robe about him in haughty indifference.

"Then be it so," he said mockingly.  "'T is your own choice, I have offered redemption of my
pledge."

I started to utter some harsh words in answer; but before I could speak, Toinette pressed her
soft palm upon my lips in protest.

"Refuse him not," she murmured hastily.  "'T is the only chance; for my sake, do not anger him."

What plan her quick wit may have engendered, I did not know; but I yielded to the entreaty
in her pleading eyes, and sullenly muttered the first conscious lie of my life.

"I accept your terms, Sau-ga-nash, harsh as they are."

He looked from one to the other of us, his face dark with distrust and doubt.

"You are not mine to dispose of," he said sternly to the trembling girl, who visibly shrank
from his approach, and clung once more to me. "You are prisoner to Little Sauk; nor will I
release one thus held by the Pottawattomies.  They and the Wyandots are brothers.  But I trust
you, and not the word of this white man.  Pledge me not to go with him, and I will believe you."

She glanced first at me, then back into the swarthy, merciless face. Her cheeks were white
and her lips trembled, yet her eyes remained clear and calm.

"I give you my word, Sau-ga-nash," she said quietly.  "While I am held as prisoner by Little
Sauk, I will not go away with John Wayland."

Little as I believed these words to be true at the time, the sound of them so dulled me with
apprehension that I could only stare at her in speechless amazement.  It seemed to me then
as if the power of reason had deserted me, as if my brain had been so burdened as to refuse
its office.  I recall that Toinette almost compelled me to lie down against the farther side
of the lodge, placing a pile of skins in front of me and assuming a position herself where
she could occasionally reach across the barrier and touch me with her soft hand.  No doubt
she realized the struggle in my mind, for she spoke little after the departure of the half-breed,
as if anxious to permit me to figure out the future for myself.  Little by little I faced it,
and came to an irrevocable decision.  It was to be Toinette or nothing.  While it might be
true that she was in no immediate danger, and possibly could be safely ransomed if I once escaped
to civilization, yet the risk of such venture and delay was too great; nor would my love abide
so vast a sacrifice on her part.  I thought to say this to her; but there was a look of firm
decision in her sweet face, as her dark eyes met mine, that somehow held me silent.  I felt
that in her own heart she must already know what action I would choose, and the final moment
would prove sufficient test for her evident determination.  Reassured here, my thoughts turned
to De Croix; but that was useless.  I could send no message to him; he was no longer in especial
peril, and perhaps would not willingly desert his newly found wife even to escape the savages.
Nay,--it was to be Toinette and I, now and forever.

I do not clearly remember at this day what it was we spoke about in the brief whispering that
passed between us while we waited there.  Neither of us felt like voicing our real thoughts,
and so we but dissembled, making commonplaces fill the gaps between our silences.  The night
found us undisturbed, and it shut down so darkly within the narrow confines of the lodge that
I lost all trace of her presence, but for an occasional movement or the sound of her low voice.
Without, the rapidly increasing noise indicated a return of many savages to the camp, until
at last a fire was kindled in the open space, its red flame sending some slight illumination
where we were, but not enough to reveal the interior of the lodge.  An Indian brought the girl
some food, entering and leaving without uttering a sound; and we two ate together, striving
to speak lightly in order to make the coarse meal more palatable.

Suddenly I became aware of a faint scratching upon the skin of the lodge, at my back.  At first
I supposed it to be some wild animal, or possibly a stray dog; but the regularity of it showed
a purpose of some kind.  Could it be De Croix?  Or was it the half-breed with some secret message
he dared not deliver openly?  I lifted the lodge covering slightly, and placed my lips to the
aperture.

"Is some one there?" I whispered cautiously.  "Who is it?"

"I am Sister Celeste," came the immediate low reply.  "Are you the white man I guided?"

"Ay," I answered, rejoicing at this rare good fortune, "and I beg you to listen to what I say.
There will be a boat awaiting us beneath the old Agency building at midnight.  You must be
there with De Croix."

"De Croix?"

"Yes; I know not if that be his name to you, but I mean the Frenchman whose life you saved.
Will you take him thither at midnight, together with the rifle I left in the council lodge?"

For a moment she did not answer.  Doubtless it was a bitter struggle for her thus to agree
even to meet the man again.  At last she made reply, although I could plainly mark the faltering
of her voice.

"The man of whom you speak shall be there," she said, "unless some accident make it impossible."

As I drew back my head, and sat upright.  Mademoiselle spoke questioningly.

"With whom were you conversing just now, Monsieur?"

"The young woman of whom we have spoken so often," I answered thoughtlessly.  "She has pledged
herself to bring De Croix to the meeting-place."

"Indeed!" she exclaimed, with accent so peculiar I knew not how to interpret it.  "It almost
makes me desire to form one of your party."

CHAPTER XXXIII

AN INTERVENTION OF FATE

"Form one of our party?" I echoed, believing I must have misunderstood her words.  "Surely,
Mademoiselle, you cannot mean that you take your promise to the half-breed so seriously as
voluntarily to remain in captivity?"

"Yes, but I do, Monsieur!" and the tone in which she said it was firm with decision.  "The
Indian asked my pledge in all solemnity, and has gone away trusting to it.  My conscience could
never again be clear did I prove false in such a matter.  You also made a pledge, even before
mine was given; was it not your purpose to abide by it?"

"No," I answered, a bit shortly.  "I merely agreed to his proposition at your expressed desire
that I should, and because I believed you had framed some plan of escape.  Have you such small
respect for me, Mademoiselle, as to think I could consent to leave you here alone and at the
mercy of these red fiends?  Have I risked my life in coming here for no other end than this?"

I felt her reach her arm across the pile of skins lying between us, and grasp my hand within
her own.

"But, dear friend, you must!" she said, pleadingly, her softly modulated voice dwelling upon
the words as if they came hard.  "Truly you must, John Wayland, and for my sake as well as
your own.  I am comparatively safe here,--safe at least from actual physical harm, so long
as the savages dream that the sparing of my life will yield them profit.  You have no right
to remain in such peril as surrounds you here, when by so doing you benefit no one.  You have
father and mother awaiting in prayer your safe return to them yonder on the Maumee; while I,--I
have no one even to ask how sad my fate may be.  Think you that because I am a girl I must
therefore be all selfishness? or that I would ever permit you thus to sacrifice yourself unnecessarily
for me? No, no, Monsieur!  I will remain prisoner to Little Sauk, for my sacred word has been
pledged; and you must go, because there are others to whom your life is of value.  Nor need
you go empty-handed, for the one you have sought so far and long seems now ready enough to
travel eastward with you."

Scarcely had her voice ceased, leaving me struggling to find fit words to change her mad decision,
when a rough hand flung back the entrance flap, and the naked body of an Indian, framed for
a single instant against the light, lurched heavily through the opening.  Even that brief glimpse
told me the man had been drinking to excess; while for the moment, as I huddled down closer
behind my robes, I was unable to make out his identity.

"Where white woman?" he ejaculated gruffly, as he paused, blinded by the darkness.  "Why she
not come help me?"

His quick ear evidently caught the slight rustle of the girl's skirt as she rose hastily to
her feet, for with a muttered Indian oath the savage lurched forward.  I could scarcely make
out the dimmest shadow of them in the dense gloom, yet I seemed to know that he had grasped
her roughly, though not the slightest sound of fear or pain came from her lips.

"Ugh! better come!" he muttered, a veiled savage threat growling in his tone.  "You my squaw;
cook in my lodge; get meal now."

"But where? and how?" she asked, her voice trembling perceptibly, yet striving to placate him
by a seeming willingness to obey.  "I have nothing here to cook, nor have I fire."

"Indian squaw no talk back!" he retorted angrily.  "This way I show white squaw to mind chief!"

I heard plainly the brutal blow he struck her, though even as she reeled back she managed to
stifle the scream upon her lips, so that it was barely audible.  With one bound I was over
the barrier of robes and clutching with tingling fingers for the brute.  I touched his feathered
head-dress at last, and he must have supposed me his helpless victim, for with a grunt of satisfaction
he struck once again, the blow meeting my shoulder, where he judged in the dark her face would be.

"White squaw mind now--"

I had him gripped by the throat before he ended, and we went down together for a death-struggle
in the darkness, from which each realized in an instant both could never rise again.  My furious
grip sobered him, and he made desperate efforts to break free, struggling vainly to utter some
cry for rescue.  Once I felt him groping at his waist for a knife; but I got first clasp upon
its hilt, though I twisted helplessly for some minutes before I could loosen his hold at my
wrist so as to strike him with the blade.  His teeth closed upon my hand, biting deep into
the flesh like a wildcat, and the sharp sting of it yielded me the desperate strength I needed
to wrench my hand free, and with one quick blow the knife I clutched cut deep into his side,
so that I could feel the hot blood spurt forth over my hand.  I held him in a death grip, for
I knew a single cry meant ruin to all our plans, until the last breath sped, and I knew I lay
prostrate above a corpse.  It had been so swift and fierce a contest that I staggered half-dazed
to my feet, peering about me as if expecting another attack.  I was steadied somewhat by the
sound of a low sob from the darkness.

"'T is well over with, Toinette," I murmured hastily, my voice trembling from the strain that
still shook me.

"Oh, John!  John Wayland!  And you are truly unhurt of the struggle?" It was scarcely her voice
speaking, so agitated was it.  "Have you killed him?"

"Yes," I answered, finding my way cautiously toward her, and speaking in whispers.  "I had
no other choice.  It was either his life or yours and mine.  Knew you the savage?"

"It was Little Sauk," she replied, clinging to me, and growing somewhat calmer from my presence.
"Oh, what can we do now?"

"There remains but one thing, and that is to accept the chance that Providence has given us.
There remains no longer a shadow of excuse for your staying here, even by your own reasoning.
You are no longer prisoner to Little Sauk.  Your pledge has been dissolved by Fate, and it
must be God's will that you go forth with me.  What say you, Mademoiselle?"  And I crushed
her hands in mine.

I could feel her slight form tremble as I waited her reply, and believed she peered across
my shoulder through the darkness, imagining she saw the dead Indian's form lying there.

"Do you truly wish it?" she questioned at last, as though warring with herself.  "Think you
she would greatly care?"

'T is a strangely perverse thing, the human mind.  As there dimly dawned upon me a conception
of her meaning,--a knowledge that this seemingly heart-free girl cared enough for me to exhibit
such jealousy of another,--I would not undeceive her by a word of explanation.

"I certainly do wish it," was my grave answer, "nor does it greatly matter what the desire
of any other may be.  This is not an invitation to a ball, Mademoiselle.  I beg you answer
me; will you go?"

She looked toward me, wondering at my words.

"Yes," she said simply.  "Has the time come?"

"I have no certain means of knowing; but it cannot be far from the hour, and we shall be much
safer without."

I took the Indian's knife with me, wiping the long blade upon the pile of skins, and placing
it convenient to my hand within the bosom of my hunting-shirt.  It was dark enough back of
the lodge away from the glare of the fires, and we rested there well within the shadow, for
some time, while I scanned the surroundings and planned as best I might our future movements.

"Was it from dread of venturing once more upon the water that you held back so long?" I asked
her, seeking rudely to delve into the secret of her reserve.

"Have you ever found me of cowardly heart, Monsieur?" she questioned in return, parrying with
quick skill, "that you should think any bodily terror could hold me back?  If I had reasons
other than those already given, they were worthy ones."

"You are not afraid of the perils before us?"

"No," she answered; "my heart beats fast, but 't is not from fear."

Only a few scattered lodges had been raised to the eastward of where we were, nor did these
show any signs of life.  We crept forward with painful slowness, partially hiding our movements
by following a shallow, curving gully, until we had gained the extreme limits of the encampment,
where we crawled out into the gloom of the surrounding prairie.  Not until then did either
of us venture to stand erect, or advance with any degree of freedom.

Directly ahead of us there was nothing by which I could safely guide our course.  The flat
sameness of the plain offered no landmarks, while the night sky was so thickly overcast as
to leave no stars visible. Nor was there light of any kind, save that of the fires in the camp
we had just left.  I hesitated to risk the open prairie thus unaided, lest we should wander
astray and lose much valuable time; so, although it measurably increased our peril of encountering
parties of savages, I turned sharply northward, keeping the bright Indian fires upon our left,
and groping forward through the gloom toward where I knew the main branch of the river must
lie.  It was neither the time nor place for speech.  I held her hand closely while we moved
onward silently, carefully guarding each step lest by mischance it should bring betrayal. 
Once, after we had reached the river and were moving eastward again, a party of Indians passed
us, coming so silently out of the black void, in their soft moccasins, that I had barely time
to hold her motionless before they were fairly upon us.  I counted nine of them, moving rapidly
in single file, like so many black ghosts.  We waited with wildly throbbing hearts, listening
for fear others might follow in their trail.

We were almost beside the walls of the factory building before either of us was aware of its
proximity.  Even then, as I lay prone on the earth and studied its dim outlines, they possessed
nothing of familiarity, for the high-pitched roof had fallen in and carried with it the greater
portion of the upper walls, leaving a mere shell, shapeless and empty.  I rested there, gazing
at it, and wondering how best we might proceed to find our way beneath where the boat was to
be moored, when I felt Mademoiselle's fingers press my arm warningly. Scarcely a yard away,
on a ridge of higher ground, two dim figures came to a sudden pause.

"I perceive naught of the presence of your friends as yet, Monsieur," spoke a soft voice, "but
I will remain until certain of the outcome."

"Then your decision is unchanged?" asked the other, in deeper accent, full of earnest pleading.
"All is to be over between us from this hour?  And you deliberately choose to devote your life
to the redemption of these savages?"

"We have discussed all this at length, Monsieur le Marquis, as we came along, and, as you fully
know, my choice is made beyond recall.  I am here to serve you to-night, because it seems to
be a duty given unto me by some strange Providence; and I have relied upon your courtesy to
make it as little unpleasant as possible.  I pray you, beseech me no more.  The girl I once
was lives no longer; the woman I now am has been given a special mission by God, too sacred
to be cast aside for aught that earth has to offer her of happiness.  We part in kindness,
Monsieur,--in friendship even; but that which was once between us may never be again."

There was no answer; even the reckless audacity of a courtier was silenced by that calm final
dismissal.  It was Mademoiselle who spoke in swift whisper, her lips at my ear.

"Speak! who is she?"

"The woman of whom you have heard so often,--the missionary in the Indian camp."

"Yes, I know," impatiently; "but I mean her name?"

"She calls herself Sister Celeste; I have indeed heard mention of another, but it abides not
in my memory."

"You deceive me, Monsieur; yet I know, and will speak with her," was the quick decision.  "Mother
of God! 'tis a voice too dear ever to be forgotten."

She was beside them with a step, seeming no doubt a most fair vision to be born so instantly
of the night-shadows.

"Marie Faneuf!" she exclaimed, eagerly.  "I know not by what strange fortune I meet you here,
but surely you will not refuse greeting to an old friend?"

The girl drew hastily back a step, as if her first thought was flight; but ere such end could
be accomplished, Mademoiselle had clasped her arm impetuously.

"Marie!" she pleaded, "can it be possible you would flee from me?"

"Nay," returned the other, her voice trembling painfully, as she struggled to restrain herself.
"It is not that.  Dear, dear friend!  I knew you were among the few saved from Dearborn.  The
American hunter told me, and ever since have I tried to avoid you in the camp.  'Twas not for
lack of the old love, yet I feared to meet you.  Much has occurred of late to make the keeping
of my vow most difficult.  I have been weak, and grievously tempted; and I felt scarce strong
enough, even though protected by prayers, to withstand also my deep love for you."

Their voices insensibly merged into French, each speaking so rapidly and low that I could get
little meaning of it.  Then I noted De Croix, half lying upon the ground, his head hidden within
his hands.  With sudden remembrance of the work before us, I touched his shoulder.

"Come below, Monsieur, and help me search for the boat," I said, kindly, for I was truly touched
by his grief.  "It will help clear your mind to have some labor to accomplish."

"I dare not, Wayland!" he answered hoarsely, and the face he uplifted toward me was strangely
white and drawn.  "I must stay with her; I dare not leave her again alone, lest she escape
me once more.  She is mine, truly mine by every law of the Church,--my wife, I tell you, and
I would die here in the wilderness rather than permit her longer to doom herself to such a
fate as this."

His words and manner were so wild they startled me.  Surely, in his present frame of mind he
would prove useless on such a mission as that before us.

"Then remain here, Monsieur!" I said, "and do your best to win her consent to accompany us.
No doubt Mademoiselle will aid you all that is in her power."

CHAPTER XXXIV

A STUMBLE IN THE DARK

Gloomy as the hole was, there was no help for it.  I could perceive nothing below, not even
my hand when held within a foot of my eyes; nor had I the slightest previous knowledge of the
place to guide me, even had not the fire ruins above effectually blocked every passage-way
with fallen debris.  Listening however intently, my ears could distinguish only the faint lapping
of the river as it crept about the log piling on which the house had been built; but beyond
this dim guidance, I had to feel my way forward with extended hands and groping feet.  Swinging
to my back the rifle that De Croix had brought, and casting an inquiring glance backward at
the little group huddled upon the bank, almost invisible even at that short distance, I grasped
the piling nearest me and slid down into the unknown darkness.

My feet found solid earth, although as I reached out toward the left my moccasin came in contact
with water, which told me at once that only a narrow path divided the steep bank of the excavation
from the encroaching river.  The floor above was originally low, so that I could easily touch
the heavy supporting beams; and I had felt my way scarcely a yard before coming in contact
with a serious obstruction, where the weakened floor had sagged so as almost to close the narrow
passage. This caused me to wade farther out into the water, testing each step carefully as
I followed the sharp curving of the shore-line.  I had no fear of meeting any living enemy
within that silent cave, my sole doubt being as to whether the half-breed chief had fulfilled
his promise and brought the boat, my gravest anxiety to discover it early and get my party
safely away before the Indian encampment learned the truth.

I must have reached the apex of the little cove, moving so cautiously that not a ripple of
the water revealed my progress, and feeling for each inch of way like a blind man along city
streets, when my knee suddenly struck some obstacle, and seeking to learn what it might be,
I muttered a silent prayer of thanksgiving as I touched the unmistakable sides of a boat. 
It was a lumping, awkward craft, rudely fashioned, yet of a seeming length of keel and breadth
of beam that set my heart beating with new joy, as I wondered if it was not the same craft
in which the Kinzie family put forth upon the lake the morning of the massacre.  This seemed
very likely, for there could hardly be two such boats at hand, where the Indian water-craft
were slender, fragile canoes, poorly fitted for serious battle with lake waves.  Doubtless
this was the only vessel Sau-ga-nash could find suitable for the venture, or he would never
have chosen it for the use of a single man, as it was of a size to require the services of
several paddles.  Yet the thought meant much; for this very lack of water-craft was likely
to render pursuit by the baffled savages impossible, if only once we got fairly away from the
shore.

With these reflections driving swiftly through my brain, I ran one hand hastily along the thwarts
of the boat, seeking to discover if paddles had been provided, or even a sail of any kind.
I touched a coil of rope, a rude oar-blade so broad as to seem unwieldy, a tightly rolled cloth,--and
then my groping fingers rested on the oddest-feeling thing that ever a startled man touched
in the dark.  It was God's mercy I did not cry out from the sudden nervous fit that seized
me.  The thing I touched had a round, smooth, creepy feeling of flesh about it, so that I believed
I fingered a corpse; until it began to turn slowly under my hand like a huge ball, the loose
skin of it twitching yet revealing no human features to my touch.  Saint Andrew! but it frightened
me!  I knew not what species of strange animal it might prove to be, nor whence its grip or
sting might come.  Yet the odd feeling of it was strangely fascinating,--I could not let it
go; the damp flesh-like skin seemed to cling to my fingers in a horrible sort of magnetism
that bound me prisoner, the cold perspiration of terror bursting from every pore, even as my
other hand, trembling and unnerved, sought in my shirt for the knife of Little Sauk.

As I gripped the weapon, the thing began to straighten out, coming up in the quick odd jerks
with which some snakes uncoil their joints after the torpidity of winter.  My hand, finding
naught to grasp, slipped from the smooth round ball, and as it fell touched what seemed an
ear, and then a human nose.

"Merciful God! 't is a man!" I gasped, in astonishment and yet relief, as I closed upon his
throat, madly determined to shut off his wind before he could give alarm.

"Cuss the luck!" he gasped hoarsely, and I let go of him, scarcely able to ejaculate in my
intense surprise at that familiar voice.

"Burns?  For Heaven's sake, Burns! can this indeed be you?"

For an instant he did not speak, doubtless as greatly perplexed as I at the strange situation.

"If ye 're Injun," he ventured at last gravely, "then I 'm a bloody ghost; but if by any chance
ye 're the lad, Wayland, which yer voice sounds like, then it's Ol' Tom Burns as ye 're a-maulin'
'round, which seems ter be yer specialty,--a-jumpin' on unoffensive settlers in the dark, an'
a-chokin' the life outer them."

The growling tone of his voice was growing querulous, and it was evident that his temper, never
quite childlike, had not been greatly improved by his late experiences as an Indian captive.

"But Burns, old friend!" I persisted heartily, my courage returned once more, "it was surely
enough to stir any man to violence to encounter such a thing in the dark!  What in Heaven's
name has happened to leave you with such a poll?  What has become of your hair and beard? 
Is their loss a part of Indian torture?"

There was a low chuckle in the darkness, as if the old rascal were laughing to himself.

"Injun nuthin!" he returned with vehemence.  "Thet 's jist my way of sarcumventin' the bloody
varmints.  I shaved the hull blame thing soon as ever they let me loose, an' then played loony,
till thar ain't no Injun 'long the shore as 'd tech me fer all the wampum in the Illini country.
'T ain't the fust time I saved my scalp by some sech dern trick.  I tell ye, it 's easy 'nough
ter beat Injuns if ye only know how.  By snakes!  I 'm sacred, I am,--specially teched by the
Great Spirit.  I tell ye, ter be real loony is dern nigh as good in an Injun camp as ter hev
red hair like thet thar little Sister Celeste with the Pottawattomies.  She knows her business,
you bet; an' so does Ol' Burns know hisn!"

His mention of her name instantly recalled me to the little group waiting above us, and doubtless
already worried at my prolonged absence.

"Burns," I interrupted, "this is no time for reminiscences.  I am here seeking some means of
escape out of this place of horror.  What were you doing down here?"

"Sorter contemplatin' a sea v'yage," he said, dryly.  "'T was rec'mended by my doctor fer the
growth o' my har.  So, snoopin' 'round yere in the dark, an' not over fond o' Injun com'any,
I found this yere boat.  Jest got in ter see how 't was fixed, when ye jumped down yonder.
Reckon I 'd kinder like ter wet 'er up an' see wot she 's like."

"Good! so would I.  This boat was placed here for that very purpose. Now listen.  The young
woman you just mentioned, that Indian missionary with the auburn hair, is above yonder, together
with another young white girl rescued from the massacre, and the Frenchman, De Croix.  We have
come here, on pledge of a half-breed chief that this boat would be ready for our escape.  And
we have no time to waste, for we may be followed at any moment."

"They ain't seen ye stealin' outer the camp?"

"No, but in doing it I was compelled to kill Little Sauk, and the others may find his body
at any time."

For a moment the sly old borderer made no response, and I knew he was quietly turning over
the complicated situation in his own mind preparatory to intelligent action.  I heard him step
from the boat into the shallow water.

"All right, lad!  I understand," he said heartily, his former indifference vanished.   "Derned
if I wouldn't jist as soon leave that Parley-Voo behind; but I 'm with ye, an' I reckon Ol'
Burns 'll give them thar redskins another dern good jolt.  Take hold here, boy, an' we 'll
run this yere man-o-war outside, where we kin ship the rest o' her crew."

The back-water rippling among the old piling was shallow, but the boat had little aboard and
floated free, so that we worked it forward with little difficulty until we succeeded in rounding
the slight promontory and held its bulging sides close against the mud wall.  Leaving Burns
to keep it in place, I crept silently up the bank.

"Come!" I whispered, making my way to the side of Mademoiselle more by instinct than sight.
"The boat we sought is here and ready!  I have even found a boatman to aid us, in the form
of Ol' Burns, who, you remember, aided De Croix and me at the time of our famous race.  Let
us waste no more of the night here, but do the rest of your talking in greater safety on the
water."

They came with me down to the edge of the stream without a word of protest.  I had taken Mademoiselle
in my arms and lifted her slight form into the boat, when she turned suddenly, as it by an
unrestrainable impulse, and held out her hands toward the dim figure of the silent girl who
yet remained motionless several feet away.

"Marie!" she said, anxiously, "it may be wrong of me to urge it, but I beg you to think again
in this grave matter.  Surely such horrible massacre as you have witnessed must absolve you
from your vow, and yield you freedom to return eastward with those you love."

The other did not respond to this passionate appeal, but stood facing us silent as a statue.

"What mean you, Mademoiselle?" I asked.  "Will not this Sister Celeste consent to leave the
Indians?"

"Nay, she has made a sacred vow of religion which binds her to this sacrifice.  I implore you,
John Wayland, urge her to go with us!  'T is but waste of her life here.  She is an old schoolmate
of mine, and 't will be hard to leave her alone in this wilderness.  Captain de Croix, she
was far from being a stranger to you in those other days at Montreal,--will you not add your
entreaties to ours?"

I saw him step forward toward that quiet bowed figure, and she straightened perceptibly, even
in the darkness, as he drew near.  His words were in French, and spoken so low I missed their
meaning; yet we all heard plainly her calm answer, while marking the faltering accents of her lips.

"Dear, dear friend!" and I felt her eyes, blinded by tears, were seeking out Mademoiselle through
the gloom, "it breaks my heart to answer you nay in this hour of sore trial to us both.  Yet
my vow to God is more sacred than any earthly friendship; nor could peace ever again abide
in my heart were I to break the vow so lightly.  My duty is here, be it for life or death;
and here I must abide until the Master sets me free."

Then, addressing De Croix, she continued sadly, "No, Monsieur, the sense of duty that presses
upon me and yields me such strength is beyond your comprehension.  I bid you go back to that
world of light and gaiety you have always loved so fondly, and think no more of me. To you
I am, even as you have supposed, a dead woman, yet happier far in this sad exile than I ever
was in that gilded social cage where men laugh while they break the hearts that trust them.
My Indians are indeed cruel, but there is a deeper cruelty than that of bloodshed, and I prefer
the open savagery of the woods and plains to things I have known in city life.  So it must
be good-bye, Monsieur!"

I was looking directly at her when she uttered these last words of dismissal, yet as she ended
she vanished into the black night beyond, I knew not how.  A moment before, two figures had
been standing there, De Croix's and hers; and although my eyes never once wavered, suddenly
there remained but one, that of De Croix, peering forward with bent body as if he also knew
not how or when the girl had vanished from his side.  I was staring yet, half believing it
was but a trick of my eyes, when suddenly, like phantoms from the mist, a half-dozen naked
figures topped the high bank before me.  It was the work almost of a second.  I caught Burns's
low cry of warning from where he sat watching within the boat.

"Run!" I shouted to De Croix.  "To the boat, quick!  The savages are upon us!"

He made no motion, and I grasped him.  Rarely have I laid so heavy a hand on one in friendship;
but I lifted him from off his feet and flung him bodily into the boat's bottom, scarce waiting
till he struck before I had my shoulder against the stern to send the craft free from shore.
I know not what mischance caused it, whether I slipped upon a stone or tripped over a hidden
root; but as I shoved the boat far out into the dark current of the river, instead of springing
after it, as I had meant to do, I toppled and plunged headlong down at the edge of the stream.

CHAPTER XXXV

THE BATTLE ON THE SHORE

What followed was long a famous story on the border, and I have even read it written out most
carefully in books purporting to tell the history of those troublous times.  None of them have
it as I recall the details of the incident, although it all occurred so rapidly that I myself
can hardly tell just how 't was done.

I know that I scrambled again to my knees, resting half in the water, my purpose being to fling
myself into the river in an effort to regain the boat.  But it was already out of sight in
the dense gloom, while not the slightest sound reached me for guidance.  Beyond this, I had
no time for much save action.  Above me, upon the high bank not three yards away, I saw several
Indian forms peering over; and then others, three or four, I am uncertain which, sprang lightly
down within a yard of where I crouched in waiting.

My father gave me a frontier maxim once, which ran, "If you must fight, strike first, and strike
hard."  The words flashed in my memory, and I put them to the test straightway.  These prowling
savages were apparently unaware of my predicament; their sole thought was with the boat floating
away lakeward down the stream.  At all cost, they must be blocked in any purpose of pursuit.
These were the thoughts that darted through my brain like fire through stubble.  How many opposed
me, how desperate would be the struggle, were matters of which I did not stop to think.  I
could at least busy them until the fugitives were safe; after that, it was God's affair, and
theirs.  My rifle was wet and useless from my recent tumble; but before the group at the water's
edge even saw me I was fairly upon them, striking fiercely with my gunstock, and two savages
went down, shrieking from pain and surprise, before so much as a return blow reached me.

It was not a noisy battle; from the outset it was too fierce and rapid for any waste of breath.
Never did I need my strength of body more, nor did the long training of my father come in better
play.  I made that long rifle-barrel both club and sword, knife and axe in one, striking, thrusting,
clubbing, in the mad fury with which desperation bids a man battle for his life.  I had no
thought to live, but was determined that if I went down to earth many a painted savage should
lie there with me.  The enshrouding darkness proved a friendly help; for as I backed in closer
against the bank, I gained a fair view of my opponents, while keeping myself more hidden. 
Again and again they charged upon me, joined now by the others from above; but the circling
iron I swung with tireless arms formed a dead-line no leaping Indian burst through alive.

Once a hurtling tomahawk half buried itself in my shoulder; a long knife, thrown by a practised
hand, pierced the muscles of my thigh, and stuck there quivering, till I struck it loose; and
twice they fired at me, the second shot tearing the flesh of my side, searing it like fire.
Yet I scarcely realized I was touched, so fiercely was the battle-blood now coursing through
my veins, so intense the joy with which I crushed them back.  I grew delirious, feeling the
rage to slay sweep over me as never before, giving me the crazed strength of a dozen men, until
I lost all sense of defensive action, and sprang forth into their midst as might an avenging
thunderbolt from the black sky.  Never had I swung flail in peaceful border contest as I did
that murderous iron bar in the dark of the river-shore, driving them back foot by foot against
the high bank which held them helpless victims of my wrath.  I struck again and again, my teeth
set together in bulldog tenacity, my breath coming in gasps, the streaming blood from a deep
cut over my eyes half blinding me, yet guided by fierce instinct to find and smite my foes.
I trod on limp bodies, on writhing forms, and felt my weapon clash against iron rifle barrels
and clang upon uplifted steel; but nothing stopped me,--no cry of terror, no plea for mercy,
no clutching hand, no deadly numbing blow.

God knows the story of that fight,--how long it lasted, by what miracle 't was won.  To me
it is--and was--little more than a dim haze of strange leaping figures, of fierce dark faces,
of maddened cries of hate, of uplifted hands, of dull-clashing weapons.  I seemed to see it
all through a red fog whence the blood dripped, and I lost consciousness of everything save
my unswerving duty to strike hard until I fell.  At last out from the maelstrom of that wild
mêlée but a single warrior seemed to face me; and some instinct of the fight caused me to draw
back a pace and wipe the obscuring blood away, that I might see him better.  It came to me
that this was to be the end,--the final duel which was to decide that midnight battle.  He
and I were there alone; and the stars bursting through the clouds gave me faint view of him,
and of those dark, silent forms that lined the shore where they had fallen.

A chief, a Pottawattomie,--this much I knew even in that hasty shrouded glance.  Writers of
history affirm my opponent was Peesotum, the same fierce warrior whose cruel hand slew the
brave Captain Wells and wrenched his still beating heart from out the mutilated body.  All
I realized then were his broad sinewy shoulders, his naked brawny body, his eyes ablaze with
malignant hate.  He was the first to close, his wild cry for vengeance piercing the still night;
and before I knew it, the maddened savage was within the guard of my rifle-barrel, and we were
locked in the stern grapple of death.

It was knife to knife, our blades gleaming dull in the dim light of the stars, each man gripping
the up-lifted wrist of the other, putting forth each last reserve of strength, each cunning
trick of fence, to break free and strike the ending blow.  Back and forth we strove, straining
like two wild animals, our moccasined feet slipping on the wet earth, our muscles strained,
and sinews cracking with intensity of effort, our breath coming in labored gasps, our bodies
tense as bow-strings.  Such merciless strain could not endure forever, and, strong as I was
in those young days, the savage was far stronger and less exhausted by the struggle, so that
inch by inch he pressed me backward, battling like a demon, until I could see the cruel gleam
of his eyes as I gave slowly down.  It was God who saved me, for as I fell I struck the sharp
shelving of the bank, and the quick stoppage swung the savage to one side and below me, so
that, even as he gave vent to an exulting yell of triumph, wrenching his hand loose from my
weakening clasp to strike the death-blow, I whirled and forced him downward, his face buried
in the stream.

Those who write history say the rescuing warriors discovered him alive. I know not; but this
I swear,--I held him there until every struggle ceased, until answering yells from the westward
told me others were already close at hand, and then, breathless and trembling from the struggle,
blinded by blood and faint from wounds, I sprang forward into the night-shadows, dimly conscious
that my sole hope for escape lay lakeward.  I ran but feebly at first, skirting the partially
destroyed stockade of the old Fort, with its litter of debris, and stumbling constantly in
the darkness over the obstructions that lined the river bank.  As my breath returned, and I
somewhat cleared my eyes of blood, I saw better; and at last ran from the darker soil on to
the white sand of the beach.

There were now many stars in the sky, with the moon struggling feebly to break through the
haze; but to my anxious glance nothing was visible upon, the water.  Surely the boat must have
floated to the river-mouth by this time,--surely the force of the current would have accomplished
that; nor was it likely that Ol' Burns would draw far away from shore until assured of my fate.
The wild shouting told me that savages from the camp had already found their dead.  A moment
more would place them on my trail, hot for revenge; and there was no course left me but to
take the water, before their keen eyes found me out.  I waded out, seeking thus to get far
enough from shore to baffle their search, when suddenly a quick spark of light winked from
the blackness in front of me.  Surely it could be nothing less than a signal, the swift stroke
of flint on steel,--no doubt in the faint hope it would prove a beacon to me in my need.

Desperate as the chance was, it was still a chance, and to my mind the only one.  I glanced
behind; a dim figure or two dotted the white sand, and my heart lifted a silent prayer to God
for guidance.  A second later I was beyond my depth, breasting the unknown waters, swimming
steadily toward the place where that mysterious spark had glimmered. Once again it flashed,
the barest glimpse of light through the intense gloom; and I pressed on with new vigor, certain
now it was a real beacon.  But I was so weakened by wounds and spent from exertion, and such
desperate work is swimming fully clad, that my progress proved slow; and twice I was compelled
to pause, paddling slowly on my back, in the buffeting of the waves, in order to gain strength
to renew the struggle.  I almost lost heart in the black loneliness, as the swirling water
swept me back and confused me with its ever-tossing motion.  Once I went down from sheer weakness,
choking in a cloud of spray that swept my face; and doubtless I should have let the struggle
end in despair even then, had not the spark leaped up once more through the deep haze; and
this time so close was it that my ears caught the clashing of the flint and steel.

With the new hope of life thus given me, I pushed grimly forward, using the silent Indian stroke
that never tires, my eyes at the surface level where the light of the moon glimmered feebly.
At last I saw it,--the black lumpy shadow of the boat.  I must have splashed a little in my
weakness and excitement, for I plainly perceived the figure of a man hastily leap to his feet,
with an oar-blade uplifted threateningly above his head.

"Don't strike, Burns!" I managed to cry aloud.  "It's Wayland."

The next moment, with scarce so much as a breath remaining in my battered body, I laid hand
upon the boat's side, and clung there panting and well-nigh spent.  I felt his hands pressed
under my arms, and then, with the exercise of his great strength, he drew me steadily up, inch
by inch, until I topped the rail, and fell forward into the bottom of the boat.  An instant
I rested thus, with tightly closed eyes, my head reeling, my breath coming in sobs of pain,
every muscle of my strained body throbbing in misery.  Scarcely conscious of what was being
done about me, I could still realize that arms touched my neck, that my head was gently lifted
to a softer resting-place, and that a hand, strangely tender, brushed back from my forehead
the wet tangled hair.  The touch was thrilling; and I unclosed my wearied eyes, looking up
into the sympathetic face of Mademoiselle.  The faint moonlight rested upon it gently, touching
her crown of hair with silver; and within the dark depths of her eyes I read clearly the message
I had waited for so long.

"Toinette!" I murmured, half conscious.

She bowed her head above me, and I felt a sudden plash of tears that could not be restrained.

"Do not try to speak now, John!" she whispered softly, her finger at my lips.  "I can only
thank the good God who has brought you back to me."

I made no effort to say more; I could only lie in silence and gaze up at her, pressing the
hands resting so frankly within my own.  Indeed, we needed no words in that hour; our hearts
had spoken, and thenceforward we were one.

Suddenly the heavy boat lurched beneath us, to some quick impetus that sent a shudder through
every inch of it; and I heard a heavy splash alongside, which instantly brought me upright,
anxiously grasping the rail.

"May Heaven help him!" cried Burns excitedly, and pointing out at the black waters.  "The Frenchman
has gone overboard!"

"Overboard?" I echoed, striving to regain my feet.  "Did he fall?"

"Fall?  No; it was a dive off the back seat here.  Save me! but he went into it like a gull."

We sought for him long and vainly, peering over those dark swirling waters, calling his name
aloud, and striking flint on steel in hope to guide him by the spark.  Nothing appeared along
the rolling surface, no answering cry came from the black void; De Croix had disappeared into
the depths, as desperate men go down to death.  Suddenly, as I leaned over, sick at heart,
peering into the dimness, Toinette drew near and touched me softly.

"Let us not mourn," she said, in strange quietness.  "No doubt 't is better so."

"How?" I questioned, shocked at her seemingly heartless words.  "Surely you cannot rejoice
at such a loss?"

"'T is not a loss," she answered firmly, and the soft moon-rays were white upon her face. 
"He has only gone back to her we left behind; it was the beckoning hand of love that called
him through the waters.  Now it is only ours to pray that he may find her."

CHAPTER XXXVI

IN THE NEW GRAY DAWN

My anxious glance wandered from the face I so dearly loved, out where those dark restless waters
merged into the brooding mystery of the black night.  How unspeakably dreary, lonely, hopeless
it all was! Into what tragic unknown fate had this earliest comrade of my manhood been remorselessly
swept?  Was all indeed well with him? or had the Nemesis of a wrong once done dealt its fatal
stroke at last?  The voices of the night were silent; the chambers of the great tossing sea
hid their secret well.  Had this gallant and reckless young soldier of France, this petted
courtier of the gayest court in Europe, whose very name and rank I knew not, succeeded in his
desperate deed?  Had he reached yonder blood-stained shore, lined with infuriated savages,
and found safe passage through them to the side of the woman he had once called wife, and then
forgotten?  Or had he found, instead, the solemn peace of death, amid the swirling waters of
this vast inland sea, so many leagues to the westward of that sunny land he loved?  These were
the thoughts that shook me, as I leaned out above the rail, her dear hand always on my shoulder.
Never have the circling years found voice, nor the redeemed wilderness made answer.

"Possibly it might be done," I admitted slowly.  "'T is scarce farther than I swam just now,
and he is neither weary nor wounded."

We all realised it was a useless peril to remain there longer, and I sat at the helm and watched,
while Burns, who developed considerable knowledge in such matters, fitted the heavy sail in
place.  With the North Star over the water for our guidance, I headed the blunt nose of the
boat due eastward into the untracked waters.

I confess that my memory was still lingering upon De Croix, and my eyes turned often enough
along our foam-flecked wake in vague wonderment at his fate.  It was Mademoiselle who laid
hand softly on my knee at last, and aroused my attention to her.

"Why did you tell Sister Celeste that you came to Dearborn seeking Elsa Matherson?" she questioned,
her clear eyes intently reading my face.

"I had even forgotten that I mentioned it," I answered, surprised at this query at such a time.
"But it is strictly true.  While upon his death-bed Elsa Matherson's father wrote to mine,--they
were old comrades in the great war,--and I was sent hither to bring the orphan girl eastward.
I sought her as a brother might seek a sister he had never seen, Mademoiselle; yet have failed
most miserably in my mission."

"How failed?"

"In that I have found no trace of the girl, and beyond doubt she perished in the massacre.
I know not how, but I have been strangely baffled and misled from the first in my search for
her, and it was all to no purpose."

For the first time since I had fallen dripping into the boat, a slight smile was visible in
the dark eyes fronting me.

"Why hid you from me with such care the object of your search?"

"I hid nothing, Mademoiselle.  We spoke together about it often."

"Ay, indeed you told me you sought a young girl, and your words led me to think at first it
must be Josette, and later still the Indian missionary.  But not once did you breathe the name
of the girl in my ears.  The dwellers at Dearborn were neither so many nor so strange to me
that I could not have aided you in your search."

"You knew this Elsa Matherson?"

"I am not so sure of that, Master Wayland." she returned gravely, her eyes wandering into the
night.  "Once I thought I did, but she has changed so greatly in the last few days that I am
hardly sure.  A young girl's life is often filled with mystery, and there are happenings that
turn girlhood to womanhood in a single hour.  Love has power to change the nature as by magic,
and sorrow also has a like rare gift.  Do you still greatly wish to find this Elsa Matherson?"

"To find her?" and I gazed about me incredulously into those flitting shadows where the waves
raced by.  "Ay, for I have dreamed of her as of a lost sister, and it will sadly grieve those
at home to have me return thus empty-handed.  Yet the thought is foolishness, Mademoiselle,
and I understand not why you should mock me so."

She drew closer, in the gentle caressing way she had, and found my disengaged hand, her sweet
face held upward so that I could mark every changing expression.

"Never in my useless life was I farther removed from any spirit of mockery," she insisted,
soberly; "for never before have I seen the presence of God so clearly manifest in His mysterious
guidance of men. You, who sought after poor Elsa Matherson in this wilderness, looking perchance
for a helpless orphan child, have been led to pluck me in safety out from savage hands, and
yet never once dreamed that in doing so you only fulfilled your earlier mission."

I stared at her, grasping with difficulty the full significance of her speech.

"Your words puzzle me."

"Nay, they need not," and I caught the sudden glitter of tears on her lashes; "for I am Elsa
Matherson."

"You? you?" and I crushed her soft hand within my fingers, as I peered forward at the quickly
lowered face.  "Why, you are French, Mademoiselle, and of a different name!"

She glanced up now into my puzzled face, a bit shyly, yet with some of the old roguishness
visible in her eyes.

"My mother was indeed French, but my father was an American soldier," she said rapidly, as
if eager to have the explanation ended.  "You never asked my name, save that one night when
we first met amid the sand, and then I gave you only that by which I have been most widely
known.  None except my father ever called me Elsa; to all others I was always Toinette.  But
I am Roger Matherson's only child."

It was clear enough now, and the deception had been entirely my own, rendered possible by strange
chances of omission, by rare negligence of speech--aided by my earlier impression that she
whom I sought was a mere child.

"And 't was Sister Celeste who told you whom I sought?" I asked, for lack of courage to say more.

"Yes, to-night, while we waited for you beside the ruins of the old factory.  Oh, how far away
it all seems now!" and she pointed backward across the voters.  "Poor, poor girl!  Poor Captain
de Croix!  Oh, it is all so sad, so unutterably sad to me!  I knew them both so well, Monsieur,"
and she rested her bowed head upon one hand, staring out into the night, and speaking almost
as if to herself alone; "yet I never dreamed that he was a nobleman of France, or that he had
married Marie Faneuf.  She was so sweet a girl then,--and now to be buried alive in that wilderness!
Think you that he truly loved her?"

"I almost have faith that he did, Mademoiselle," I answered gravely. "He was greatly changed
from his first sight of her face, though he was a difficult man to gauge in such matters. 
There was a time when I believed him in love with you."

She tossed her head.

"Nay," she answered, "he merely thought he was, because he found me hard to understand and
difficult of conquest; but 't was little more than his own vanity that drew him hither.  I
trust it may be the deeper feeling that has taken him back now in face of death to Marie."

"You have indeed proved hard to understand by more than one," I ventured, for in spite of her
graciousness the old wound rankled.  "It has puzzled me much to understand how you so gaily
sent me forth to a mission that might mean death, to save this Captain de Croix."

It was a foolish speech, and she met it bravely, with heightened color and a flash of dark eyes.

"'T was no more than the sudden whim of a girl," she answered quickly, "and regretted before
you were out of sight.  Nor did I dream you would meet my conditions by such a sacrifice."

"You showed small interest as you stood on the stockade when we went forth!"

"You mean when Captain de Croix and I leaned above the eastern palisades?"

"Ay, not once did your eyes wander to mark our progress."

Her eyes were smiling now, and her face archly uplifted.

"Indeed, Master Wayland, little you know of the struggles of my heart during that hour.  Nor
will I tell you; for the secrets of a girl must be her own.  But I marked each step you took
onward toward the Indian camp, until the night hid you,--the night, or else the gathering tears
in my eyes."

The sudden yawing of the boat before a gust of wind drew my thought elsewhere, and kept back
the words ready upon my tongue.  When once more I had my bearings and had turned back the plunging
bow, she sat silent, deep in thought that I hesitated to disturb.  Soon I noted her head droop
slightly to the increased movement of the boat.

"You are worn out!" I said tenderly.  "Lean here against me, and sleep."

"Indeed, I feel most weary," was her drowsy reply.  "Yes, I will rest for a few moments."

How clear remains the memory of those hours, while I sat watchful of the helm, her head resting
peacefully on my lap, and all about us those lonely tossing waters!  What a mere chip was our
boat in the midst of that desolate sea; how dark and dreary the changeless night shadows! Over
and over again I pictured the details of each scene I have here set forth so poorly, to dream
at the end of a final homecoming which should not be alone.  It was with heart thankful to
God, that I watched the slow stealing upward of the gray dawn as the early rays of light crept
toward us across the heaving of the waters.  It was typical of all I had hoped,--this, and
the black shadows fleeing away into the west.  Brighter and brighter grew the crimsoning sky
over the boat's bow, where Burns lay sleeping, until my eyes could distinguish a far-off shore-line
heavily crowned with trees.  I thought to rouse her to the glorious sight; but even as I glanced
downward into the fair young face, her dark eyes opened in instant smile of greeting.

"'T is the morning," she said gladly, "and that dark, dark night has passed away."

"For ever, Mademoiselle; and there is even a land of promise to be seen out yonder!"

She sat up quickly, shading her eyes with her hand as she gazed with eagerness toward where
I pointed.

"Think you we shall find shelter and friends there?"

"The half-breed chief said there were yet white settlers upon the Saint Joseph, Mademoiselle;
and the mouth of that river should be easily found."

She turned toward me, a slight frown darkening her face.

"I wish you would not call me Mademoiselle," she said slowly.  "It is as if we were still mere
strangers; and you said Elsa Matherson was to be as your sister."

I bent over her suddenly, all my repressed love glowing in my face.

"Toinette!" I whispered passionately, "I would call you by a dearer name than that,--by the
dearest of all dear names if I might, for you have won my heart in the wilderness."

For a single instant she glanced shyly up into my face, her own crimson at my sudden ardor.
Her eyes drooped and hid themselves behind their long lashes.

"Those who sent you forth seeking a sister might not thus wish to welcome Elsa Matherson,"
she said softly.

"'Tis a venture I most gladly make," I insisted, "and would seal it with a kiss."

Her eyes flashed up at me, full of sudden merriment.

"The unpaid wager leaves me helpless to resist, Monsieur."

      *      *      *      *      *      *

The soft haze of Indian summer rested over the valley of the Maumee. We rode slowly along the
narrow winding trail that hugged the river bank; for our journey had been a long one, and the
horses were wearied. Burns was riding just in advance of Toinette and me, his cap pulled low
over his eyes, his new growth of hair standing out stiff and black beneath its covering.  Once
he twisted his seamed face about in time to catch us smiling at his odd figure, and growled
to himself as he kicked at his horse's flanks.

It was thus we rounded the bend and saw before us the little clearing with the cabin in the
centre of its green heart.  At sight of it my eyes grew moist and I rested my fingers gently
upon the white hand that lay against her saddle-pommel.

"Fear not, dear heart!" I whispered tenderly.

"It is home for both alike, and the welcome of love awaits you as well as me."

She glanced up at me, half shyly as in the old way, and there was a mist of tears clinging
to the long lashes. 

Trees, of their strange fight against the laws with gravitation, striving
unceasingly and sinister, bring us something of hope and faith; an
sight of them cheers us do.

On fist, the serpent impresses us as something upward.
  Then it was I saw
them, even as when I last rode forth, my father seated in his great splint chair, my mother
with her arm along the carved back, one hand shading her eyes as she watched our coming.

This is not a memory to be written about for stranger eyes to read, but as I turned from them
after that first greeting, their glances were upon her who stood waiting beside me, so sweet
and pure in her young womanhood.

"And this, my son?" questioned my father kindly.  "We would bid her welcome also; yet surely
she cannot be that little child for whose sake we sent you forth?"

I took her by the hand as we faced them.

"You sent me in search of one whom you would receive even as your own child," I answered simply.
"This is Roger Matherson's daughter, and the dear wife of your son."

What need have I to dwell upon the love that bade her welcome?  And so it was that out of all
the suffering and danger,--forth from the valley of the shadow of death,--Toinette and I came home.

