Then one day appeared Mrs. Langtry in her then radiance of beauty, insisting upon a conference
with me upon the production of a set of bed-hangings which were intended for the astonishment
of the London world and to overshadow all the modest and schooled productions of the Kensington,
when she herself should be the proud exhibitor. She looked at all the beautiful things we had
done and were doing, and admired and approved, but still she wanted "something different, something
unusual." I suggested a canopy of our strong, gauze-like, creamy silk bolting-cloth, the tissue
used in flour mills for sifting the superfine flour. I explained that the canopy could be crosses
on the under side with loops of full-blown, sunset-colored roses, and the hanging border heaped
with them. That there might be a coverlet of bolting-cloth lined with the delicatest shade
of rose-pink satin, sprinkled plentifully with rose petals fallen from the wreaths above. This
idea satisfied the pretty lady, who seemed to find great pleasure in the range of our exhibits,
our designs and our workrooms, and when her order was completed, she was triumphantly satisfied
with its beauty and unusualness. The scattered petals were true portraits done from nature,
and looked as though they could be shaken off at any minute. I came to see much of this beautiful
specimen of womanhood, who played her part in the eyes of the world; and of things of more
lasting importance than her somewhat ephemeral career, I should be tempted to tell amusing
conclusions. She was an Oriental butterfly, which flitted along our sober, serious by-path
of business and labor, looking for honey of any sort to be gathered on its sober track.

When Mr. Tiffany came to me with an order for the drop-curtain of a theater, I did not trouble
myself about a scheme for it, knowing that it had probably taken exact and interesting form
in his own mind. It was a beautiful lesson to me, this largeness of purpose in needlework.
The design for this curtain turned out to be a very realistic view of a vista in the woods,
which gave opportunity for wonderful studies of color, from clear sun-lit foregrounds to tangles
of misty green, melting into blue perspectives of distance. It was really a daring experiment
in methods of appliqué, for no stitchery pure and simple was in place in the wide reaches of
the picture. So we went on painting a woods interior in materials of all sorts, from tenuous
crêpes to solid velvets and plushes. It was one of Mrs. Holmes' silk pictures on a large scale,
and was perhaps more than reasonably successful. I remember the great delight in marking the
difference between oak and birch trees and fitting each with its appropriate effect of color
and texture of leaf; and the building of a tall gray-green yucca, with its thick satin leaves
and tall white pyramidal groups of velvet blossoms, standing in the very foreground, was as
exciting as if it were standing posed for its portrait, and being painted in oils.

The variety of our work was a good influence for progress. We were constantly reaching out
to fill the various demands, and, beyond them, to materialize our ideals. As far as art was
concerned in our work, what we tried to do was not to repeat the triumphs of past needlework,
but to see how far the best which had been done was applicable to the present.

If tapestries had been the highest mark of the past, to see whether and how their use could
be fitted to the circumstances of today, and, if we found a fit place for them in modern decoration,
to see that their production took account of the methods and materials which belonged to present
periods, and adapted the production to modern demands.

We soon came to the ideal of tapestries which loomed above and beyond us and had been reached
by every nation in turn which had applied art to textiles, but in all except very early work
the accomplishment had been more of the loom than of hand work. My dream was of American Tapestries,
made by embroidery alone, carrying personal thought into method. We decided that there was
no reason for the limitation of the beautiful art of needlework to personal use, or even to
its numerous domestic purposes. This most intimate of the arts of decoration has been in the
form of wall hangings for the bare wall spaces of architecture from the time when dwellings
passed their first limited use of protection and defense. After this first use of houses came
the instinct and longing for beauty, and the feeling which prompts us in these wider days of
achievement to cover our wall spaces with pictures, moved our far-off forefathers and mothers
to offer their skill in spinning, and weaving, and picturing with the needle hangings to cover
the bareness of the home. This impulse grew with the centuries, until tapestries were a natural
art expression of different races of men, so that we have Italian, Spanish, French, Dutch and
English tapestries, each with national tastes and characteristics of production. As time went
on, inevitable machinery undertook the task of making wall hangings, with the whole-hearted
help of all who had given their lives to art, and tapestries had become a part of the riches
of the world. When the greater part of the world's wealth was in the possession of Popes and
Princes, it was usual to expend a goodly portion of it in works of art. Pictures and tapestries
and exquisitely wrought metal work, weavings and embroideries, made priceless by costly materials
and the thoughts and labor of artists, were reckoned not as a sign of wealth but as actual
wealth. They were really riches, as much as stocks and bonds are riches today. Such things
were accumulated as anxiously and persistently as one accumulates land or houses, or railroad
bonds or stocks, and the buyer was not poorer; but in fact he was richer for money expended
in this fashion. This everyday financial fact lay underneath and supported the beautiful pageant
of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, gilding them with a radiance which has attracted
the admiration and excited the wonder of all succeeding years.

That flower and culmination of labor which we call art was the capital of those early centuries,
and took the place of the Bank, the Bourse, and the Exchange which later financial ideas have
created.

It is in a great measure to this fact, as well as to the intense love for, and appreciation
of, art which distinguished this period, that we owe the wonderful treasures which have enriched
the later world. They belong no longer to princes and prelates, but to governments and museums,
and are object lessons to the student and the artisan, and an inheritance for both rich and
poor of all mankind.

Except in the light of these treasures of art, it would be difficult to understand how far-reaching
and comprehensive was the greed of beauty which possessed and distinguished the centers of
tapestry production. The museums of the world are made up of what remains of them. The pictures
and tapestries, the weavings and embroideries, the carvings and metal work which the world
is studying, belonged to the daily life of those past centuries. The stamp of thought and the
seal of art were set upon the simplest conveniences of life. The very keys of the locks and
hinges of the doors were designed, not by mere workers in metal, but by sculptors and artists
who were pre-eminent for genius. It was in the spirit of this period that Benvenuto Cellini
modeled saltcellars as well as statues, and his compeers designed carvings and gildings for
state carriages, and painted pictures upon the panels. Painters of divine pictures designed
cartoons and borders for tapestries, and wreaths and garlands for ceiling pilasters.

Among the names of painters who designed cartoons for tapestries, we find those of Leonardo
da Vinci, Raphael, Titian, Guido and Giulio Romano, Albert Dürer, Rubens and Van Dyck. Indeed,
there is hardly a great name among the painters of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries
which has not contributed to the value of the tapestries dating from those times. Among them
all none have a greater share of glory than the series known as "The Acts of the Apostles,"
designed by Raphael for Pope Leo X, in the year 1515. The history of these cartoons is full
of interest. After the weaving of the first set of these tapestries, which was hung in the
Sistine Chapel and regarded as among the greatest treasures of the world, the cartoons remained
for more than a hundred years in the manufactory at Brussels. During this period one or more
sets must have been woven from them, but in 1630 seven were transferred to the Mortlake Tapestry
works near London, having been purchased by Charles I, who was advised of their existence by
Rubens. The Mortlake tapestry had been established by James I, who was greatly aided by the
interest of the then Prince of Wales, and the Duke of Buckingham. It is charming to think of
"Baby Charles" and "Steenie" busying themselves with the encouragement of art in the way of
the production of tapestry pictures, and after the accession of the Prince, to follow the progress
of this taste in the purchase of the famous cartoons, and the employment of no less a genius
than Van Dyck in the composition of new and more elaborate borders for them. It was probably
during the reign of Charles that these glorious compositions went into use as illustrations
of Biblical text, for we find "Paul preaching at Athens," "Peter and Paul at the Beautiful
Gate of the Temple," and "The Miraculous Draught of Fishes" figuring as full-page frontispieces
to many old copies of King James' Bible. After the tragic close of the reign of King Charles,
the treasures of tapestries he had accumulated were dispersed and sold by order of Cromwell;
but the cartoons remained the property of the nation and, though lost to sight for another
hundred years or so, finally reappeared from their obscurity, at Hampton Court, and in these
later years, at the Kensington Museum, have again taken their place as one of the most valuable
lessons of earlier centuries. It was probably the story of these cartoons which inspired the
determination which had taken possession of us, to do a real tapestry, something greatly worthy
of accomplishment.

When we came to the decision to create tapestries, the actual substance of them, as well as
the art, was a thing to be considered. The wool fiber upon which they were usually based was
a prey to many enemies. Dust may corrupt and moths utterly destroy fiber of wool, but dust
does not accumulate on threads of silk, neither are they quite acceptable to the appetite of
moths. Therefore, we reasoned, if we did work which was worthy of comparative immortality,
it must be done with comparatively imperishable material. Fiber of flax and fiber of silk shared
this advantage, and the silk was tenacious of color, which was not the case with flax; therefore
we chose silk and went bravely to our task of creating American tapestries.

Having decided upon our material, we consulted with our friendly and interested manufacturers,
and finally ordered a broad, heavily marked, loosely woven fabric which would hold our precious
stitches safely and show them to advantage. The woof of the canvas upon which we were to experiment
was also of silk, not fine and twisted like the warp, but soft and full enough to hold silk
stitchery. In this way the face of the canvas, or ground, could be quite covered by a full
thread of embroidery silk passed under the slender warp and actually sewn into the woof.

Being thus fully equipped for the production of real tapestries, well adapted to the processes
of what I called "needle weaving," since the needle was really used as a shuttle to carry threads
over and under the already fixed warp, the next decision rested upon the subject of this new
application of the art and the knowledge we had gained by study and practice and love of textile
art. With a courage which we now wonder at, we selected perhaps the most difficult, as it certainly
is the most beautiful, of surviving tapestries, "The Miraculous Draught of Fishes," the cartoon
of which, designed by Raphael, is at present to be seen and studied at the Kensington Museum
in London. The decision to copy this was perhaps influenced by the fact that it was the only
original cartoon of which I had knowledge, and my summer holiday in London was spent in its
study, and schemes for its exact reproduction. As it was spread upon a wall in museum fashion,
a drawing could not be actually verified by measurements, but an expedient came to me which
proved to be satisfactory. I had two photographs, as large as possible, made from the cartoon,
and one of them, being very faintly printed, copied exactly in color; the other was ruled and
cut into squares, and was again photographed and enlarged to a size which would bring them,
when joined, to the same measurements as the original cartoon. These, very carefully put together,
made a working drawing for my tapestry copy, and the lighter photograph, which had been most
carefully water-colored, gave the color guide for the copy.

It was interesting to find the perforations along the lines of the composition still showing
in the photographed cartoon, and we made use of them by going over them with pin pricks, fastening
the cartoon over the sheet of silk canvas woven for the background, so that there was no possibility
of shifting. Prepared powder was sifted through the lines of perforation and fixed by the application
of heat, and we then had the entire composition exactly outlined upon the ground. After that
the work of superimposing color and shading by needle weaving was a labor of love and diligent
fingers during many months. Every inch of stitchery was carefully criticized and constantly
compared with the colored copy, and at last it was a finished tapestry and was hung in a north
light on one of the great spaces of the studio, where it was an object of expert examination
and general admiration.

It is by far the most important work accomplished by needle weaving which has ever been made
in America, and is as veritable a copy of the original as if it were painted with brush and
pigment, instead of being woven with threads of silk. The low lights of the evening sky, the
reflections of the boats, and the stooping figures of the fishermen, the perspective of the
distant shore, and the wonderful grouping in the foreground, keep their charm in the tapestry
as they do in the picture. Even the mystery of the twilight is rendered, with the subtle effect
we feel, but can scarcely define, in the original drawing.

It has been a curiously direct process from the hand of the great master, to this new reproduction,
although it stands so far from his time and life. His very thought was painted by his very
hand upon the paper of the cartoon, and this painted thought has been photographed upon another
paper which has served as a guide to the copy.

It makes us sharers in the art riches of Raphael's own time, to see a new embodiment of his
thought appearing as a part of the nineteenth century's accomplishments and possessions.

After this achievement we naturally began to look for appropriate use for the small tapestries,
but here came our stumbling block. The breed of princes, who had been the former patrons of
such works of art, were all asleep in their graves, and knew not America, or its ambitions,
and our native breed was not an hereditary one, building galleries in palaces, and collecting
there the largest of precious accomplishments in artistic skill in order to perpetuate their
own memories, as well as to enrich their descendants. Our princes were perhaps as rich as they,
and possibly as powerful, but their ambitions did not usually extend to a line of posterity.
Their palaces were contracted to a "three score and ten" size; for each of them, no matter
how wide his capability of enjoyment, knew that it was personal and ended when his little spark
of life should be extinguished. I gladly record, however, that in these later days some of
them have made the American world their heirs, and are building and enriching museums and colleges,
making them palaces of growth and enlightenment, and so giving to the many what an older race
of princes built and enriched and guarded for the few.

But in the meantime what were we to do about our tapestries? They were costly, very costly
to produce, and although we took account of the delight of their creation and put it on the
credit side of our books, along with the fact that the weekly pay roll of the tapestry room
went for the comfort and maintenance of the students whom we loved and cherished, I soon realized
the fact that a commercial firm could not be burdened with the fads of any one member. Before
I had carried this conclusion to its logical end, we had opportunities of using our skill worthily
in several of the new great houses of the time. When the Cornelius Vanderbilt house was erected
on Fifth Avenue and Fifty-Seventh Street we received an order for a set of tapestries for the
drawing-room walls. These were executed from ideal subjects and of single figures. I remember
the "Winged Moon" among them, which was an ideal figure of the new moon lying in a cradle of
her own wings. This was but one of the set, one or two of which we afterward made in replica
for an exhibit in London. There was no lack of subjects in our background of American history.
The legends and beliefs of our North American Indians were full of them, and one of the first
we selected was the lovely story of "Minnehaha, Laughing Water," from Longfellow's "Hiawatha."
The sketch had been sent to us by Miss Dora Wheeler, as the prize composition of the Saturday
Composition Class at Julien's Studio in Paris.

The literary past of the country furnished subjects enough and to spare, and if we wished to
walk into the shadowy realms of legend and fiction, there were the picturesque legends of the
American Indian from which to choose. Our subjects were often one-figure designs, as such pieces
were suitable in size to wall spaces and door openings. Of course commercial considerations
could not be lost sight of in our enthusiasm for progress in textile art. Potter Palmer, the
multimillionaire of Chicago, was building at the time a palace home on the Lake Shore, and
one auspicious day Mrs. Palmer bestowed her beautiful presence upon us, and was mightily taken
with our tapestries. Her clever mind was attracted by the "bookishness" of some of the panels
of incidents from American literature, and several of them went to beautify the great house
on the Lake Shore, in the form of several panels of portraits. Mrs. Palmer was a delightful
patron, her own enjoyment of art, in any of its forms, amounted to enthusiasm, and her great
physical beauty, to a beauty lover, made every visit from her an epoch. I have never seen the
face of an adult woman who has had the experience of wifehood and motherhood which retained
so perfectly the flawless beauty of childhood. I have often gazed at the angelic face of some
child, and wondered why each year of life should wipe out some exquisite line of drawing, or
absorb the entrancing shadows which rest upon the face of childhood. It was a great satisfaction
to personally assist in the furnishing of the home of this beautiful aristocrat, whose own
law allowed of no infringement by our mighty three, having been shaped in a mind enriched by
much classical study and constant acquaintance with the beautiful.

When our embroideries and needlework had taken their place in this country, we were asked to
make part of an Exhibition of American Art in London. This we were very glad to do, for the
artistic gratification of being able to measure what we were doing with the best art of the
kind abroad. It was also pleasant to be considered worthy company with the best in our own
land, to rub shoulders with our best painters, our great makers of stained glass, leaders who
take genuine pleasure in ideal work. Of course this applies to amateur work only, as professional
decoration must accord with the general plan which has been selected.

I had reason to think that the Exhibition made by the Associated Artists at Chicago was of
lasting use to all lovers of needlework, the world over, since so many other races came there
to get their world lessons. I learned much that was of value to me from familiar study of the
exhibits from different countries, from their excellencies and differences and the reasons
why such wide divergences existed, and from observation of the people themselves who produced
them--for many of the exhibits were in charge of practical needleworkers who knew the history
of their art from its very beginning. I found more of interest in Oriental art from seeing
that it was not merely a perfunctory repetition of stitches and patterns, but that there was
a stanch, almost a religious, integrity in doing the thing exactly as it had been done by generations
of forefathers, and that the silks and tissues and flosses and threads of gold were the best
the world produced. In the presence of such fidelity, what mattered it that the borders and
blocks were formed of angles, or zigzags, or squares, or any other fixed and mechanical shapes?
The spirit of it was true to its race and traditions. In the face of it, all our beautiful
copies of flowers, and growths, and gracious forms of nature seemed almost experimental--the
art of growing and changing nations.

But as we do not make the early art of long existent races models upon which to shape our search
for the most beautiful, the persistence of Eastern form in embroidery need not prevent our
progress in design. I made an interesting note of this persistence of Eastern design, when,
many years ago, I had an opportunity of examining some mummy wrappings from a burial ground
at Lima, Peru. They were wonderful weavings of aboriginal cloth, bordered with embroidery done
in dyed or colored threads of flax, in designs as purely Eastern as can be found in any ancient
or modern Eastern embroidery. How could it happen that the ornamental designs of the Far East
and the Far West should touch each other? Was it similarity of thought knowledge, the kinship
of the human mind, or some long-forgotten means of transmission of the material and actual,
of which we all-knowing moderns do not even dream? This wonderful South American embroidery
of past ages antedated many antique remains of the art of stitchery which we treasure with
as wide a margin of time as lies between their day and ours.

Embroidery has become a dependence and a business for thousands of women, and it is this which
secures its permanence. We may trust skillful executants who live by its practice to keep ahead
of the changing fancies of society and invent for it new wants and new fashions. And this,
because their chance of living depends upon it, and it promises to be a permanent and growing
art. It may, and will, undoubtedly, take on new directions, but it is no longer a lost art.
On the contrary, it is one where practice has attained such perfection that it is fully equal
to any new demands and quite competent to answer any of the higher calls of art.

CHAPTER VIII -- THE BAYEUX TAPESTRIES

While a description of this most important work of women's hands may seem somewhat irrelevant
in a book devoted to the development of the art of embroidery in America, it is so important
a link in the subject of stitchery, executed as it was in the eleventh century, that a short
chapter on this most interesting and vital subject may not come amiss.

Among all our present possessions of early skill, perhaps nothing is more widely known than
what is called the Bayeux Tapestry. This much venerated work is not tapestry at all, but a
pictorial record in outline, done with a needle, as simply as though written in ink, at least
according to our present understanding of what is known as tapestry.

We read of the subject, and the name of William the Conqueror looms large in the imagination.
We think of the tapestry as a great illustrated page of history, large in proportion not alone
to the deeds it chronicles, but to their importance in the story of one of the greatest, perhaps,
of the modern races; and across this illustrated page we fancy the prancing of war horses and
the prowess of the knight, the passing of seas and the march of armies, with all the attendant
tragedy of circumstance.

But this is only in one's mind. The reality is a more or less tattered strip of grayish-white
linen, two feet in width and two hundred and thirty feet long, and along this frail bridge
between the past and present march the actors in the great conquest. It seems but an inadequate
pathway, but it has borne its phalanxes of men, its two hundred horses, its five hundred and
fifty-five dogs and other animals, its forty-one ships, its numberless castles and trees, its
roads and farms safely through all the intervening years from 1066 to 1919, and it still holds
them.

In truth, we wonder much over this production of the past, and not alone over the heroes who
career so mildly in their armor of colored crewels on the linen background. We wonder, in the
first place, how a continuous web of over two hundred feet in length could have been woven.
Then, we know that lengths of woven stuffs are limited only by the requirements of commerce,
and that Matilda was of Flanders, and her father had learned the princely trick of loving and
encouraging manufactures, and had, indeed, taught it to his daughter, and that Flanders was
a noted center of manufacture. Then we decide that if Matilda had called for a strip of linen
two thousand feet long, whereon to write the warlike history of a spouse who began his gentle
part toward her (for so history avers) by pulling her from her horse and rolling her in the
mud because she refused to marry him, it would have been forthcoming as easily as two hundred.
Should the Queen of England require a stretch of linen as long as from England to America,
whereon to record the successes of her reign, who doubts that it would be supplied her?

So, when the question of this web is disposed of, we wonder who drew all these figures of men
and horses, for Queen Matilda and her ladies to overlay with stitchery, and why his name has
not come down to us. We decide within our minds, for it never occurs to us to impute such ability
in drawing to the Queen or her ladies, that it was the work of some monkish brother who varied
his illuminating labor upon missals and copies of the Scripture by doing these worldly and
interesting things.

