"It is a very small salary, certainly," said John, who had a decent notion of his own merits;
"but consider, six months vacation, two hours in the day, and those spent over the newspapers.
After all, it's--"

"After all it's a swindle," roared out Mr. Scully--"a swindle upon the country; an infamous
tax upon the people, who starve that you may fatten in idleness. But take this clerkship in
the Tape and Sealing-Wax Office," continued the patriot, his bosom heaving with noble indignation,
and his eye flashing the purest fire,--"TAKE this clerkship, John Perkins, and sanction tyranny,
by becoming one of its agents; sanction dishonesty by sharing in its plunder--do this, BUT
never more be friend of mine. Had I a child," said the patriot, clasping his hands and raising
his eyes to heaven, "I would rather see him dead, sir--dead, dead at my feet, than the servant
of a Government which all honest men despise." And here, giving a searching glance at Perkins,
Mr. Scully began tramping up and down the garden in a perfect fury.

"Good heavens!" exclaimed the timid John Perkins--"don't say SO. My dear Mr. Scully, I'm not
the dishonest character you suppose me to be--I never looked at the matter in this light. I'll--I'll
consider of it. I'll tell Crampton that I will give up the place; but for Heaven's sake, don't
let me forfeit YOUR friendship, which is dearer to me than any place in the world."

Mr. Scully pressed his hand, and said nothing; and though their interview lasted a full half-hour
longer, during which they paced up and down the gravel walk, we shall not breathe a single
syllable of their conversation, as it has nothing to do with our tale.

The next morning, after an interview with Miss Lucy, John Perkins, Esquire, was seen to issue
from Mrs. Biggs's house, looking particularly pale, melancholy, and thoughtful; and he did
not stop until he reached a certain door in Downing Street, where was the office of a certain
great Minister, and the offices of the clerks in his Lordship's department.

The head of them was Mr. Josiah Crampton, who has now to be introduced to the public. He was
a little old gentleman, some sixty years of age, maternal uncle to John Perkins; a bachelor,
who had been about forty-two years employed in the department of which he was now the head.

After waiting four hours in an ante-room, where a number of Irishmen, some newspaper editors,
many pompous-looking political personages asking for the "first lord," a few sauntering clerks,
and numbers of swift active messengers passed to and fro;--after waiting for four hours, making
drawings on the blotting-book, and reading the Morning Post for that day week, Mr. Perkins
was informed that he might go into his uncle's room, and did so accordingly.

He found a little hard old gentleman seated at a table covered with every variety of sealing-wax,
blotting-paper, envelopes, despatch-boxes, green tapers, etc. etc. An immense fire was blazing
in the grate, an immense sheet-almanack hung over that, a screen, three or four chairs, and
a faded Turkey carpet, formed the rest of the furniture of this remarkable room--which I have
described thus particularly, because in the course of a long official life, I have remarked
that such is the invariable decoration of political rooms.

"Well, John," said the little hard old gentleman, pointing to an arm-chair, "I'm told you've
been here since eleven. Why the deuce do you come so early?"

"I had important business," answered Mr. Perkins, stoutly; and as his uncle looked up with
a comical expression of wonder, John began in a solemn tone to deliver a little speech which
he had composed, and which proved him to be a very worthy, easy, silly fellow.

"Sir," said Mr. Perkins, "you have known for some time past the nature of my political opinions,
and the intimacy which I have had the honour to form with one--with some of the leading members
of the Liberal party." (A grin from Mr. Crampton.) "When first, by your kindness, I was promised
the clerkship in the Tape and Sealing-Wax Office, my opinions were not formed as they are now;
and having taken the advice of the gentlemen with whom I act,"--(an enormous grin)--"the advice,
I say, of the gentlemen with whom I act, and the counsel likewise of my own conscience, I am
compelled, with the deepest grief, to say, my dear uncle, that I--I--"

"That you--what, sir?" exclaimed little Mr. Crampton, bouncing off his chair. "You don't mean
to say that you are such a fool as to decline the place?"

"I do decline the place," said Perkins, whose blood rose at the word "fool." "As a man of honour,
I cannot take it."

"Not take it! and how are you to live? On the rent of that house of yours? For, by gad, sir,
if you give up the clerkship, I never will give you a shilling."

"It cannot be helped," said Mr. Perkins, looking as much like a martyr as he possibly could,
and thinking himself a very fine fellow. "I have talents, sir, which I hope to cultivate; and
am member of a profession by which a man may hope to rise to the very highest offices of the
State."

"Profession, talents, offices of the State! Are you mad, John Perkins, that you come to me
with such insufferable twaddle as this? Why, do you think if you HAD been capable of rising
at the bar, I would have taken so much trouble about getting you a place? No, sir; you are
too fond of pleasure, and bed, and tea-parties, and small-talk, and reading novels, and playing
the flute, and writing sonnets. You would no more rise at the bar than my messenger, sir. It
was because I knew your disposition--that hopeless, careless, irresolute good-humour of yours--that
I had determined to keep you out of danger, by placing you in a snug shelter, where the storms
of the world would not come near you. You must have principles forsooth! and you must marry
Miss Gorgon, of course: and by the time you have gone ten circuits, and had six children, you
will have eaten up every shilling of your wife's fortune, and be as briefless as you are now.
Who the deuce has put all this nonsense into your head? I think I know."

Mr. Perkins's ears tingled as these hard words saluted them; and he scarcely knew whether he
ought to knock his uncle down, or fall at his feet and say, "Uncle, I have been a fool, and
I know it." The fact is, that in his interview with Miss Gorgon and her aunt in the morning,
when he came to tell them of the resolution he had formed to give up the place, both the ladies
and John himself had agreed, with a thousand rapturous tears and exclamations, that he was
one of the noblest young men that ever lived, had acted as became himself, and might with perfect
propriety give up the place, his talents being so prodigious that no power on earth could hinder
him from being Lord Chancellor. Indeed, John and Lucy had always thought the clerkship quite
beneath him, and were not a little glad, perhaps, at finding a pretext for decently refusing
it. But as Perkins was a young gentleman whose candour was such that he was always swayed by
the opinions of the last speaker, he did begin to feel now the truth of his uncle's statements,
however disagreeable they might be.

Mr. Crampton continued:--

"I think I know the cause of your patriotism. Has not William Pitt Scully, Esquire, had something
to do with it?"

Mr. Perkins COULD not turn any redder than he was, but confessed with deep humiliation that
"he HAD consulted Mr. Scully among other friends."

Mr. Crampton smiled--drew a letter from a heap before him, and tearing off the signature, handed
over the document to his nephew. It contained the following paragraphs:--

"Hawksby has sounded Scully: we can have him any day we want him. He talks very big at present,
and says he would not take anything under a... This is absurd. He has a Yorkshire nephew coming
up to town, and wants a place for him. There is one vacant in the Tape Office, he says: have
you not a promise of it?"

"I can't--I can't believe it," said John; "this, sir, is some weak invention of the enemy.
Scully is the most honourable man breathing."

"Mr. Scully is a gentleman in a very fair way to make a fortune," answered Mr. Crampton. "Look
you, John--it is just as well for your sake that I should give you the news a few weeks before
the papers, for I don't want you to be ruined, if I can help it, as I don't wish to have you
on my hands. We know all the particulars of Scully's history. He was a Tory attorney at Oldborough;
he was jilted by the present Lady Gorgon, turned Radical, and fought Sir George in his own
borough. Sir George would have had the peerage he is dying for, had he not lost that second
seat (by-the-by, my Lady will be here in five minutes), and Scully is now quite firm there.
Well, my dear lad, we have bought your incorruptible Scully. Look here,"--and Mr. Crampton
produced three Morning Posts.

"'THE HONOURABLE HENRY HAWKSBY'S DINNER-PARTY.--Lord So-and-So--Duke of So-and-So--W. Pitt
Scully, Esq. M.P.'

"Hawksby is our neutral, our dinner-giver.

"'LADY DIANA DOLDRUM'S ROUT.--W. Pitt Scully, Esq,' again.

"'THE EARL OF MANTRAP'S GRAND DINNER.'--A Duke--four Lords--'Mr. Scully, and Sir George Gorgon.'"

"Well, but I don't see how you have bought him; look at his votes."

"My dear John," said Mr. Crampton, jingling his watch-seals very complacently, "I am letting
you into fearful secrets. The great common end of party is to buy your opponents--the great
statesman buys them for nothing."

Here the attendant genius of Mr. Crampton made his appearance, and whispered something, to
which the little gentleman said, "Show her Ladyship in,"--when the attendant disappeared.

"John," said Mr. Crampton, with a very queer smile, "you can't stay in this room while Lady
Gorgon is with me; but there is a little clerk's room behind the screen there, where you can
wait until I call you."

John retired, and as he closed the door of communication, strange to say, little Mr. Crampton
sprang up and said, "Confound the young ninny, he has shut the door!"

Mr. Crampton then, remembering that he wanted a map in the next room, sprang into it, left
the door half open in coming out, and was in time to receive Her Ladyship with smiling face
as she, ushered by Mr. Strongitharm, majestically sailed in.

CHAPTER III.

BEHIND THE SCENES.

In issuing from and leaving open the door of the inner room, Mr. Crampton had bestowed upon
Mr. Perkins a look so peculiarly arch, that even he, simple as he was, began to imagine that
some mystery was about to be cleared up, or some mighty matter to be discussed. Presently he
heard the well-known voice of Lady Gorgon in conversation with his uncle. What could their
talk be about? Mr. Perkins was dying to know, and--shall we say it?--advanced to the door on
tiptoe and listened with all his might.

Her Ladyship, that Juno of a woman, if she had not borrowed Venus's girdle to render herself
irresistible, at least had adopted a tender, coaxing, wheedling, frisky tone, quite different
from her ordinary dignified style of conversation. She called Mr. Crampton a naughty man, for
neglecting his old friends, vowed that Sir George was quite hurt at his not coming to dine--nor
fixing a day when he would come--and added, with a most engaging ogle, that she had three fine
girls at home, who would perhaps make an evening pass pleasantly, even to such a gay bachelor
as Mr. Crampton.

"Madam," said he, with much gravity, "the daughters of such a mother must be charming; but
I, who have seen your Ladyship, am, alas! proof against even them."

Both parties here heaved tremendous sighs and affected to be wonderfully unhappy about something.

"I wish," after a pause, said Lady Gorgon--"I wish, dear Mr. Crampton, you would not use that
odious title 'my Ladyship:' you know it always makes me melancholy."

"Melancholy, my dear Lady Gorgon; and why?"

"Because it makes me think of another title that ought to have been mine--ours (I speak for
dear Sir George's and my darling boy's sake, Heaven knows, not mine). What a sad disappointment
it has been to my husband, that after all his services, all the promises he has had, they have
never given him his peerage. As for me, you know--"

"For you, my dear madam, I know quite well that you care for no such bauble as a coronet, except
in so far as it may confer honour upon those most dear to you--excellent wife and noble mother
as you are. Heigho! what a happy man is Sir George!"

Here there was another pause, and if Mr. Perkins could have seen what was taking place behind
the screen, he would have beheld little Mr. Crampton looking into Lady Gorgon's face, with
as love-sick a Romeo-gaze as he could possibly counterfeit; while her Ladyship, blushing somewhat
and turning her own grey gogglers up to heaven, received all his words for gospel, and sat
fancying herself to be the best, most meritorious, and most beautiful creature in the three
kingdoms.

"You men are terrible flatterers," continued she; "but you say right: for myself I value not
these empty distinctions. I am growing old, Mr. Crampton,--yes, indeed, I am, although you
smile so incredulously,--and let me add, that MY thoughts are fixed upon HIGHER things than
earthly crowns. But tell me, you who are all in all with Lord Bagwig, are we never to have
our peerage? His Majesty, I know, is not averse; the services of dear Sir George to a member
of His Majesty's august family, I know, have been appreciated in the highest quarter. Ever
since the peace we have had a promise. Four hundred pounds has Sir George spent at the Heralds'
Office (I myself am of one of the most ancient families in the kingdom, Mr. Crampton), and
the poor dear man's health is really ruined by the anxious sickening feeling of hope so long
delayed."

Mr. Crampton now assumed an air of much solemnity.

"My dear Lady Gorgon," said he, "will you let me be frank with you, and will you promise solemnly
that what I am going to tell you shall never be repeated to a single soul?"

Lady Gorgon promised.

"Well, then, since the truth you must know, you yourselves have been in part the cause of the
delay of which you complain. You gave us two votes five years ago; you now only give us one.
If Sir George were to go up to the Peers, we should lose even that one vote; and would it be
common sense in us to incur such a loss? Mr. Scully, the Liberal, would return another Member
of his own way of thinking; and as for the Lords, we have, you know, a majority there."

"Oh, that horrid man!" said Lady Gorgon, cursing Mr. Scully in her heart, and beginning to
play a rapid tattoo with her feet, "that miscreant, that traitor, that--that attorney has been
our ruin."

"Horrid man, if you please, but give me leave to tell you that the horrid man is not the sole
cause of your ruin--if ruin you will call it. I am sorry to say that I do candidly think Ministers
believe that Sir George Gorgon has lost his influence in Oldborough as much through his own
fault as through Mr. Scully's cleverness."

"Our own fault! Good heavens! Have we not done everything--everything that persons of our station
in the county could do, to keep those misguided men? Have we not remonstrated, threatened,
taken away our custom from the Mayor, established a Conservative apothecary--in fact, done
all that gentlemen could do? But these are such times, Mr. Crampton: the spirit of revolution
is abroad, and the great families of England are menaced by democratic insolence."

This was Sir George Gorgon's speech always after dinner, and was delivered by his lady with
a great deal of stateliness. Somewhat, perhaps, to her annoyance, Mr. Crampton only smiled,
shook his head, and said--

"Nonsense, my dear Lady Gorgon--pardon the phrase, but I am a plain old man, and call things
by their names. Now, will you let me whisper in your ear one word of truth? You have tried
all sorts of remonstrances, and exerted yourself to maintain your influence in every way, except
the right one, and that is--"

"What, in Heaven's name?"

"Conciliation. We know your situation in the borough. Mr. Scully's whole history, and, pardon
me for saying so (but we men in office know everything), yours--"

Lady Gorgon's ears and cheeks now assumed the hottest hue of crimson. She thought of her former
passages with Scully, and of the days when--but never mind when: for she suffered her veil
to fall, and buried her head in the folds of her handkerchief. Vain folds! The wily little
Mr. Crampton could see all that passed behind the cambric, and continued--

"Yes, madam, we know the absurd hopes that were formed by a certain attorney twenty years since.
We know how, up to this moment, he boasts of certain walks--"

"With the governess--we were always with the governess!" shrieked out Lady Gorgon, clasping
her hands. "She was not the wisest of women."

"With the governess, of course," said Mr. Crampton, firmly. "Do you suppose that any man dare
breathe a syllable against your spotless reputation? Never, my dear madam; but what I would
urge is this--you have treated your disappointed admirer too cruelly."

"What! the traitor who has robbed us of our rights?"

"He never would have robbed you of your rights if you had been more kind to him. You should
be gentle, madam; you should forgive him--you should be friends with him."

"With a traitor, never!"

"Think what made him a traitor, Lady Gorgon; look in your glass, and say if there be not some
excuse for him? Think of the feelings of the man who saw beauty such as yours--I am a plain
man and must speak--virtue such as yours, in the possession of a rival. By heavens, madam,
I think he was RIGHT to hate Sir George Gorgon! Would you have him allow such a prize to be
ravished from him without a pang on his part?"

"He was, I believe, very much attached to me," said Lady Gorgon, quite delighted; "but you
must be aware that a young man of his station in life could not look up to a person of my rank."

"Surely not: it was monstrous pride and arrogance in Mr. Scully. But que voulez-vous? Such
is the world's way. Scully could not help loving you--who that knows you can? I am a plain
man, and say what I think. He loves you still. Why make an enemy of him, who would at a word
be at your feet? Dearest Lady Gorgon, listen to me. Sir George Gorgon and Mr. Scully have already
met--their meeting was our contrivance. It is for our interest, for yours, that they should
be friends. If there were two Ministerial Members for Oldborough, do you think your husband's
peerage would be less secure? I am not at liberty to tell you all I know on this subject; but
do, I entreat you, be reconciled to him."

And after a little more conversation, which was carried on by Mr. Crampton in the same tender
way, this important interview closed, and Lady Gorgon, folding her shawl round her, threaded
certain mysterious passages and found her way to her carriage in Whitehall.

"I hope you have not been listening, you rogue?" said Mr. Crampton to his nephew, who blushed
most absurdly by way of answer. "You would have heard great State secrets, if you had dared
to do so. That woman is perpetually here, and if peerages are to be had for the asking, she
ought to have been a duchess by this time. I would not have admitted her but for a reason that
I have. Go you now and ponder upon what you have heard and seen. Be on good terms with Scully,
and, above all, speak not a word concerning our interview--no, not a word even to your mistress.
By the way, I presume, sir, you will recall your resignation?"

The bewildered Perkins was about to stammer out a speech, when his uncle, cutting it short,
pushed him gently out of the door.

                    *          *          *

At the period when the important events occurred which have been recorded here, parties ran
very high, and a mighty struggle for the vacant Speakership was about to come on. The Right
Honourable Robert Pincher was the Ministerial candidate, and Sir Charles Macabaw was patronised
by the Opposition. The two Members for Oldborough of course took different sides, the baronet
being of the Pincher faction, while Mr. William Pitt Scully strongly supported the Macabaw party.

It was Mr. Scully's intention to deliver an impromptu speech upon the occasion of the election,
and he and his faithful Perkins prepared it between them: for the latter gentleman had wisely
kept his uncle's counsel and his own and Mr. Scully was quite ignorant of the conspiracy that
was brooding. Indeed, so artfully had that young Machiavel of a Perkins conducted himself,
that when asked by his patron whether he had given up his place in the Tape and Sealing Wax
Office, he replied that "he HAD tendered his resignation," but did not say one word about having
recalled it.

"You were right, my boy, quite right," said Mr. Scully. "A man of uncompromising principles
should make no compromise." And herewith he sat down and wrote off a couple of letters, one
to Mr. Hawksby, telling him that the place in the Sealing-Wax Office was, as he had reason
to know, vacant; and the other to his nephew, stating that it was to be his. "Under the rose,
my dear Bob," added Mr. Scully, "it will cost you five hundred pounds; but you cannot invest
your money better."

It is needless to state that the affair was to be conducted "with the strictest secresy and
honour," and that the money was to pass through Mr. Scully's hands.

While, however, the great Pincher and Macabaw question was yet undecided, an event occurred
to Mr. Scully, which had a great influence upon his after-life. A second grand banquet was
given at the Earl of Mantrap's: Lady Mantrap requested him to conduct Lady Gorgon to dinner;
and the latter, with a charming timidity, and a gracious melancholy look into his face (after
which her veined eyelids veiled her azure eyes), put her hand into the trembling one of Mr.
Scully and said as much as looks could say, "Forgive and forget."

Down went Scully to dinner. There were dukes on his right hand and earls on his left; there
were but two persons without title in the midst of that glittering assemblage; the very servants
looked like noblemen. The cook had done wonders; the wines were cool and rich, and Lady Gorgon
was splendid! What attention did everybody pay to her and to him! Why WOULD she go on gazing
into his face with that tender imploring look? In other words, Scully, after partaking of soup
and fish (he, during their discussion, had been thinking over all the former love-and-hate
passages between himself and Lady Gorgon), turned very red, and began talking to her.

"Were you not at the opera on Tuesday?" began he, assuming at once the airs of a man of fashion.
"I thought I caught a glimpse of you in the Duchess of Diddlebury's box."

"Opera, Mr. Scully?" (pronouncing the word "Scully" with the utmost softness). "Ah, no! we
seldom go, and yet too often. For serious persons the enchantments of that place are too dangerous.
I am so nervous--so delicate; the smallest trifle so agitates, depresses, or irritates me,
that I dare not yield myself up to the excitement of music. I am too passionately attached
to it; and, shall I tell you? it has such a strange influence upon me, that the smallest false
note almost drives me to distraction, and for that very reason I hardly ever go to a concert
or a ball."

"Egad," thought Scully, "I recollect when she would dance down a matter of five-and-forty couple,
and jingle away at the 'Battle of Prague' all day."

She continued: "Don't you recollect, I do, with--oh, what regret!--that day at Oldborough race-ball,
when I behaved with such sad rudeness to you? You will scarcely believe me, and yet I assure
you 'tis the fact, the music had made me almost mad. Do let me ask your pardon for my conduct.
I was not myself. Oh, Mr. Scully! I am no worldly woman; I know my duties, and I feel my wrongs.
Nights and days have I lain awake weeping and thinking of that unhappy day--that I should ever
speak so to an old friend; for we WERE old friends, were we not?"

Scully did not speak; but his eyes were bursting out of his head, and his face was the exact
colour of a deputy-lieutenant's uniform.

"That I should ever forget myself and you so! How I have been longing for this opportunity
to ask you to forgive me! I asked Lady Mantrap, when I heard you were to be here, to invite
me to her party. Come, I know you will forgive me--your eyes say you will. You used to look
so in old days, and forgive me my caprices THEN. Do give me a little wine--we will drink to
the memory of old days."

Her eyes filled with tears; and poor Scully's hand caused such a rattling and trembling of
the glass and the decanter that the Duke of Doldrum--who had been, during the course of this
whispered sentimentality, describing a famous run with the Queen's hounds at the top of his
voice--stopped at the jingling of the glass, and his tale was lost for ever. Scully hastily
drank his wine, and Lady Gorgon turned round to her next neighbour, a little gentleman in black,
between whom and herself certain conscious looks passed.

"I am glad poor Sir George is not here," said he, smiling.

Lady Gorgon said, "Pooh, for shame!" The little gentleman was no other than Josiah Crampton,
Esquire, that eminent financier, and he was now going through the curious calculation before
mentioned, by which you BUY A MAN FOR NOTHING. He intended to pay the very same price for Sir
George Gorgon, too; but there was no need to tell the baronet so; only of this the reader must
be made aware.

While Mr. Crampton was conducting this intrigue, which was to bring a new recruit to the Ministerial
ranks, his mighty spirit condescended to ponder upon subjects of infinitely less importance,
and to arrange plans for the welfare of his nephew and the young woman to whom he had made
a present of his heart. These young persons, as we said before, had arranged to live in Mr.
Perkins's own house in Bedford Row. It was of a peculiar construction, and might more properly
be called a house and a half: for a snug little tenement of four chambers protruded from the
back of the house into the garden. These rooms communicated with the drawing-rooms occupied
by Mr. Scully; and Perkins, who acted as his friend and secretary, used frequently to sit in
the one nearest the Member's study, in order that he might be close at hand to confer with
that great man. The rooms had a private entrance too, were newly decorated, and in them the
young couple proposed to live; the kitchen and garrets being theirs likewise. What more could
they need? We are obliged to be particular in describing these apartments, for extraordinary
events occurred therein.

To say the truth, until the present period Mr. Crampton had taken no great interest in his
nephew's marriage, or, indeed, in the young man himself. The old gentleman was of a saturnine
turn, and inclined to undervalue the qualities of Mr. Perkins, which were idleness, simplicity,
enthusiasm, and easy good-nature.

"Such fellows never do anything in the world," he would say, and for such he had accordingly
the most profound contempt. But when, after John Perkins's repeated entreaties, he had been
induced to make the acquaintance of Miss Gorgon, he became instantly charmed with her, and
warmly espoused her cause against her overbearing relations.

At his suggestion she wrote back to decline Sir George Gorgon's peremptory invitation, and
hinted at the same time that she had attained an age and a position which enabled her to be
the mistress of her own actions. To this letter there came an answer from Lady Gorgon which
we shall not copy, but which simply stated that Miss Lucy Gorgon's conduct was unchristian,
ungrateful, unladylike, and immodest; that the Gorgon family disowned her for the future, and
left her at liberty to form whatever base connections she pleased.

"A pretty world this," said Mr. Crampton, in a great rage, when the letter was shown to him.
"This same fellow, Scully, dissuades my nephew from taking a place, because Scully wants it
for himself. This prude of a Lady Gorgon cries out shame, and disowns an innocent amiable girl:
she a heartless jilt herself once, and a heartless flirt now. The Pharisees, the Pharisees!
And to call mine a base family, too!"

Now, Lady Gorgon did not in the least know Mr. Crampton's connection with Mr. Perkins, or she
would have been much more guarded in her language; but whether she knew it or not, the old
gentleman felt a huge indignation, and determined to have his revenge.

"That's right, Uncle! SHALL I call Gorgon out?" said the impetuous young Perkins, who was all
for blood.

"John, you are a fool," said his uncle. "You shall have a better revenge: you shall be married
from Sir George Gorgon's house, and you shall see Mr. William Pitt Scully sold for nothing."
This to the veteran diplomatist seemed to be the highest triumph which man could possibly enjoy.

It was very soon to take place: and, as has been the case ever since the world began, woman,
lovely woman was to be the cause of Scully's fall. The tender scene at Lord Mantrap's was followed
by many others equally sentimental. Sir George Gorgon called upon his colleague the very next
day, and brought with him a card from Lady Gorgon inviting Mr. Scully to dinner. The attorney
eagerly accepted the invitation, was received in Baker Street by the whole amiable family with
much respectful cordiality, and was pressed to repeat his visits as country neighbours should.
More than once did he call, and somehow always at the hour when Sir George was away at his
club, or riding in the Park, or elsewhere engaged. Sir George Gorgon was very old, very feeble,
very much shattered in constitution. Lady Gorgon used to impart her fears to Mr. Scully every
time he called there, and the sympathising attorney used to console her as best he might. Sir
George's country agent neglected the property--his lady consulted Mr. Scully concerning it.
He knew to a fraction how large her jointure was; how she was to have Gorgon Castle for her
life; and how, in the event of the young baronet's death (he, too, was a sickly poor boy),
the chief part of the estates, bought by her money, would be at her absolute disposal.

"What a pity these odious politics prevent me from having you for our agent," would Lady Gorgon
say; and indeed Scully thought it was a pity too. Ambitious Scully! what wild notions filled
his brain. He used to take leave of Lady Gorgon and ruminate upon these things; and when he
was gone, Sir George and her Ladyship used to laugh.

"If we can but commit him--if we can but make him vote for Pincher," said the General, "my
peerage is secure. Hawksby and Crampton as good as told me so."

The point had been urged upon Mr. Scully repeatedly and adroitly. "Is not Pincher a more experienced
man than Macabaw?" would Sir George say to his guest over their wine. Scully allowed it. "Can't
you vote for him on personal grounds, and say so in the House?" Scully wished he could--how
he wished he could! Every time the General coughed, Scully saw his friend's desperate situation
more and more, and thought how pleasant it would be to be lord of Gorgon Castle. "Knowing my
property," cried Sir George, "as you do, and with your talents and integrity, what a comfort
it would be could I leave you as guardian to my boy! But these cursed politics prevent it,
my dear fellow. Why WILL you be a Radical?" And Scully cursed politics too. "Hang the low-bred
rogue," added Sir George, when William Pitt Scully left the house: "he will do everything but
promise."

"My dear General," said Lady Gorgon, sidling up to him and patting him on his old yellow cheek--"My
dear Georgy, tell me one thing,--are you jealous?"

"Jealous, my dear! and jealous of THAT fellow--pshaw!"

"Well, then, give me leave, and you shall have the promise to-morrow."

                    *          *          *

To-morrow arrived. It was a remarkably fine day, and in the forenoon Mr. Perkins gave his accustomed
knock at Scully's study, which was only separated from his own sitting-room by a double door.
John had wisely followed his uncle's advice, and was on the best terms with the honourable Member.

"Here are a few sentences," said he, "which I think may suit your purpose. Great public services--undeniable
merit--years of integrity--cause of reform, and Macabaw for ever!" He put down the paper. It
was, in fact, a speech in favour of Mr. Macabaw.

"Hush," said Scully, rather surlily; for he was thinking how disagreeable it was to support
Macabaw; and besides, there were clerks in the room, whom the thoughtless Perkins had not at
first perceived. As soon as that gentleman saw them, "You are busy, I see," continued he in
a lower tone. "I came to say that I must be off duty to-day, for I am engaged to take a walk
with some ladies of my acquaintance."

So saying, the light-hearted young man placed his hat unceremoniously on his head, and went
off through his own door, humming a song. He was in such high spirits that he did not even
think of closing the doors of communication, and Scully looked after him with a sneer.

"Ladies, forsooth," thought he; "I know who they are. This precious girl that he is fooling
with, for one, I suppose." He was right: Perkins was off on the wings of love, to see Miss
Lucy; and she and Aunt Biggs and Uncle Crampton had promised this very day to come and look
at the apartments which Mrs. John Perkins was to occupy with her happy husband.

"Poor devil," so continued Mr. Scully's meditations, "it is almost too bad to do him out of
his place; but my Bob wants it, and John's girl has, I hear, seven thousand pounds. His uncle
will get him another place before all that money is spent." And herewith Mr. Scully began conning
the speech which Perkins had made for him.

He had not read it more than six times,--in truth, he was getting it by heart,--when his head
clerk came to him from the front room, bearing a card: a footman had brought it, who said his
lady was waiting below. Lady Gorgon's name was on the card! To seize his hat and rush downstairs
was, with Mr. Scully, the work of an infinitesimal portion of time.

It was indeed Lady Gorgon in her Gorgonian chariot.

"Mr. Scully," said she, popping her head out of window and smiling in a most engaging way,
"I want to speak to you, on something very particular INDEED"--and she held him out her hand.
Scully pressed it most tenderly: he hoped all heads in Bedford Row were at the windows to see
him. "I can't ask you into the carriage, for you see the governess is with me, and I want to
talk secrets to you."

"Shall I go and make a little promenade?" said mademoiselle, innocently. And her mistress hated
her for that speech.

"No. Mr. Scully, I am sure, will let me come in for five minutes?"

Mr. Scully was only too happy. My Lady descended and walked upstairs, leaning on the happy
solicitor's arm. But how should he manage? The front room was consecrated to clerks; there
were clerks too, as ill-luck would have it, in his private room. "Perkins is out for the day,"
thought Scully; "I will take her into his room." And into Perkins's room he took her--ay, and
he shut the double doors after him too, and trembled as he thought of his own happiness.

"What a charming little study," said Lady Gorgon, seating herself. And indeed it was very pretty:
for Perkins had furnished it beautifully, and laid out a neat tray with cakes, a cold fowl,
and sherry, to entertain his party withal. "And do you bachelors always live so well?" continued
she, pointing to the little cold collation.

Mr. Scully looked rather blank when he saw it, and a dreadful suspicion crossed his soul; but
there was no need to trouble Lady Gorgon with explanations: therefore, at once, and with much
presence of mind, he asked her to partake of his bachelor's fare (she would refuse Mr. Scully
nothing that day). A pretty sight would it have been for young Perkins to see strangers so
unceremoniously devouring his feast. She drank--Mr. Scully drank--and so emboldened was he
by the draught that he actually seated himself by the side of Lady Gorgon, on John Perkins's
new sofa.

Her Ladyship had of course something to say to him. She was a pious woman, and had suddenly
conceived a violent wish for building a chapel of ease at Oldborough, to which she entreated
him to subscribe. She enlarged upon the benefits that the town would derive from it, spoke
of Sunday-schools, sweet spiritual instruction, and the duty of all well-minded persons to
give aid to the scheme.

"I will subscribe a hundred pounds," said Scully, at the end of her Ladyship's harangue: "would
I not do anything for you?"

"Thank you, thank you, dear Mr. Scully," said the enthusiastic woman. (How the "dear" went
burning through his soul!) "Ah!" added she, "if you WOULD but do anything for me--if you, who
are so eminently, so truly distinguished, in a religious point of view, would but see the truth
in politics too; and if I could see your name among those of the true patriot party in this
empire, how blest--oh! how blest should I be! Poor Sir George often says he should go to his
grave happy, could he but see you the guardian of his boy; and I, your old friend (for we WERE
friends, William), how have I wept to think of you as one of those who are bringing our monarchy
to ruin. Do, do promise me this too!" And she took his hand and pressed it between hers.

The heart of William Pitt Scully, during this speech, was thumping up and down with a frightful
velocity and strength. His old love, the agency of the Gorgon property--the dear widow--five
thousand a year clear--a thousand delicious hopes rushed madly through his brain, and almost
took away his reason. And there she sat--she, the loved one, pressing his hand and looking
softly into his eyes.

Down, down he plumped on his knees.

"Juliana!" shrieked he, "don't take away your hand! My love--my only love!--speak but those
blessed words again! Call me William once more, and do with me what you will."

Juliana cast down her eyes and said, in the very smallest type, "William!"

                    *          *          *
--when the door opened, and in walked Mr. Crampton, leading Mrs. Biggs,
who could hardly contain herself for laughing, and Mr. John Perkins, who
was squeezing the arm of Miss Lucy. They had heard every word of the two
last speeches.

For at the very moment when Lady Gorgon had stopped at Mr. Scully's door, the four above-named
individuals had issued from Great James Street into Bedford Row.

