It was the divorce from Katharine of Aragon and its momentous consequences, which finally put
an end to the alliance with Spain, and to the struggle with France succeeded a long struggle
with Spain, which culminated in the great event of The Armada in the reign of Henry's daughter,
Elizabeth.

However, in these pages it is not proposed to enlarge upon the political aspect of the times,
but rather to deal with the dramatic and domestic side of Henry's being. In the play of Henry
VIII., the author or authors (for to another than Shakespeare is ascribed a portion of the
drama), have given us as impartial a view of his character as a due regard for truth on the
one hand, and a respect for the scaffold on the other, permitted.

His Aspirations

There can be no doubt that when Henry ascended the throne, he had a sincere wish to serve God
and uphold the right.

In his early years he was really devout and generous in almsgiving. Erasmus affirmed that his
Court was an example to all Christendom for learning and piety. To the Pope he paid deference
as to the representative of God.

With youthful enthusiasm, the young King, looking round and seeing corruption on every side,
said to Giustinian, the Venetian ambassador: "Nor do I see any faith in the world save in me,
and therefore God Almighty, who knows this, prosper my affairs."

In Henry's early reign, England was trusted more than any country to keep faith in her alliances.
At a time when all was perfidy and treachery, promises and alliances were made only to be broken
when self-interest prompted. History, like Nature itself, is ruled by brutal laws, and to play
the round game of politics with single-handed honesty would be to lose at every turn. Henry
was born into an inheritance of blood and blackmail. Corruption has its vested interests. It
is useless to attempt to stem the recurrent tide of corruption by sprinkling the waves with
holy water.

Then religion was a part of men's daily lives, but the principles of Christianity were set
at naught at the first bidding of expediency.

Men murdered to live--the axe and the sword were the final Court of Appeal. Nor does the old
order change appreciably in the course of a few hundred years. In international politics, as
in public life, when self-interest steps in, Christianity goes to the wall.

To-day we grind our axe with a difference. A more subtle process of dealing with our rivals
obtains. To-day the pen is mightier than the sword, the stylograph is more deadly than the
stiletto. The bravo still plies his trade. He no longer takes life, but character. To intrigue,
to combine against those outside the ring is often the swiftest way to fortune. By such combination
do weaker particles make themselves strong. To "play the game" is necessary to progress. The
world was not made for poets and idealists. To quote an anonymous modern writer:

  "'Act well your part, there all the honour lies';
  Stoop to expediency and honour dies.
  Many there are that in the race for fame,
  Lose the great cause to win the little game,
  Who pandering to the town's decadent taste,
  Barter the precious pearl for gawdy paste,
  And leave upon the virgin page of Time
  The venom'd trail of iridescent slime."

Henry's eyes soon opened. His character, like his body, underwent a gradual process of expansion.

His Pastimes

Soon the lighter side of kingship was not disdained. One authority wrote in 1515: "He is a
youngling, cares for nothing but girls and hunting." He was an inveterate gambler, and turned
the sport of hunting into a martyrdom, rising at four or five in the morning, and hunting till
nine or ten at night.

As a sportsman, Henry was the "beau idéal" of his people. In the lists he especially distinguished
himself, "in supernatural feats, changing his horses, and making them fly or rather leap, to
the delight and ecstasy of everybody."

He also gave himself to masquerades and charades. We are told: "It was at the Christmas festivals
at Richmond, that Henry VIII. stole from the side of the Queen during the jousts, and returned
in the disguise of a strange Knight, astonishing all the company with the grace and vigour
of his tilting. At first the King appeared ashamed of taking part in these gladiatorial exercises,
but the applause he received on all sides soon inclined him openly to appear on every occasion
in the tilt-yard. Katharine humoured the childish taste of her husband for disguisings and
masquings, by pretending great surprise when he presented himself before her in some assumed
character."

He was gifted with enormous energy; he could ride all day, changing his horses nine or ten
times a day; then he would dance all night; even then his energies were not exhausted; then
he would write what the courtiers described as poetry, or he would compose music, or he would
dash off an attack on Luther, and so earn from the Pope the much-coveted title of "Fidei Defensor."

In shooting at the butt, it is said, Henry excelled, drawing the best bow in England. At tennis,
too, he excelled beyond all others. He was addicted to games of chance, and his courtiers permitted
him to lose as much as £3,500 in the course of one year--scarcely a tactful proceeding. He
played with taste and execution on the organ, harpsichord and lute. He had a powerful voice,
and sang with great accomplishment.

One of Henry's anthems, "O Lord, the Maker of all thyng," is said to be of the highest merit,
and is still sung in our Cathedrals. In his songs,[2] he particularly liked to dwell on his
constancy as a lover:

  "As the holly groweth green and never changeth hue,
  So I am--ever have been--unto my lady true."

and again:

  "For whoso loveth, should love but one."

An admirable maxim.

As Statesman

In spite of all these distractions, Henry was an excellent man of business in the State--indeed,
he threw himself into public affairs with the energy which characterised all his doings. The
autocrat only slumbered in Henry; and before many years had passed, he threw the enormous energy,
which he had hitherto reserved for his pleasure, into affairs of State.

Under Henry, the Navy was first organised as a permanent force. His power of detail was prodigious
in this direction. A strange picture!

He was a practical architect, and Whitehall Palace and many other great buildings owed their
masonry to his hand.

He spoke French, Spanish, Italian and Latin with great perfection.

He said many wise things. As the most unjust wars have often produced the greatest heroisms,
so the vilest causes have often produced the profoundest utterances.

He appears to have been at peace with himself and complacent towards God. In 1541, during his
temporary happiness with Catherine Howard, he attended mass in the chapel, and "receiving his
Maker, gave Him most hearty thanks for the good life he led and trusted to lead with his wife;
and also desired the Bishop of Lincoln to make like prayer, and give like thanks on All Souls'
Day."

Henry confessed his sins every day during the plague. When it abated, his spirits revived,
and he wrote daily love-letters to Anne Boleyn, whom he had previously banished from the Court.

As Moralist

A stern moralist in regard to the conduct of others, he had an indulgence towards himself which
enabled him somewhat freely to interpret the Divine right of Kings as "Le droit de seigneur."
But it is human to tolerate in ourselves the failings which we so rightly deprecate in our
inferiors.

So strong was he in his self-assurance, that he made even his conscience his slave.

Henry sometimes lacked regal taste. The night Anne Boleyn was executed he supped with Jane
Seymour; they were betrothed the next morning, and married ten days later. It is also recorded
that on the day following Katharine's death, Henry went to a ball, clad all in yellow.

The commendation or condemnation of Henry's public life depends upon our point of view--upon
which side we take in the eternal strife between Church and State.

In this dilemma we must then judge by results, for the truest expression of a man is his work;
his greatness or his littleness is measured by his output. Henry produced great results, though
he may have been the unconscious instrument of Fate. The motives which guided him in his dealings
with the Roman Catholic Church may have been only selfish--they resulted in the emancipation
of England from the tyranny of Popedom. A Catholic estimate of him would, of course, have been
wholly condemnatory, yet it must be remembered that his quarrel was entirely with the supremacy
of the Pope, and that otherwise Henry's Church retained every dogma and every observance believed
in and practised by Roman Catholics.

His Greatness

His learning was great, and it was illuminated by his genius. Gradually he learned to control
others--to do this he learned to control his temper, when control was useful, but he was always
able to make diplomatic use of his rage--a faculty ever helpful in the conduct of one's life!
In fact, it is difficult to determine whose genius was greater--Wolsey's as the diplomatist
and administrator, or Henry's as the man of action, the figurehead of the State. Around him
he gathered the great men of his time, and their learning he turned to his own account, with
that adaptiveness which is the peculiar attribute of genius. Shakespeare himself was not more
assimilative. In Wolsey, Henry appreciated the mighty minister, and this is one of his claims
to greatness, for graciously to permit others to be great is a sign of greatness in a King.

WOLSEY

His Early Life

Wolsey was born at Ipswich, probably in the year 1471. His father, Robert Wolsey, was a grazier,
and perhaps also a butcher in well-to-do circumstances. Sent to Oxford at the age of 11, at
15 he was made a Bachelor of Arts. He became a parish priest of St. Mary's, at Lymington, in
1500. Within a year he was subjected to the indignity of being put into the public stocks--for
what reason is not known. It has been said that he was concerned in a drunken fray. I prefer
to think that, in an unguarded moment, he had been tempted to speak the truth. No doubt this
was his first lesson in diplomacy.

In 1507 Wolsey entered the service of Henry VII. as chaplain, and seems to have acted as secretary
to Richard Fox, Lord Privy Seal. Thus Wolsey was trained in the policy of Henry VII., which
he never forgot.

His Growing Power

When Henry VIII. came to the throne, he soon realised Wolsey's value, and allowed him full
scope for his ambition.

Wolsey thought it desirable to become a Cardinal--a view that was shared by Henry, whose right
hand Wolsey had become. In 1514 Henry wrote to the Pope asking that the Hat should be conferred
on his favourite, who in the following year was made Lord Chancellor of England. There was
some hesitancy which bribery and threats overcame, and in 1515 Wolsey was created Cardinal,
in spite of the hatred which Leo X. bore him. Having won this instalment of greatness, Wolsey
promptly asked for the Legateship which should give him precedence over the Archbishop of Canterbury.
This ambition was realised three years later, but only by what practically amounted to political
and ecclesiastical blackmail. In the Church and State Wolsey now stood second only to the King.

HIS STATE

(a) His Retinue

As an instance of the state he kept, we are told that he had as many as 500 retainers--among
them many lords and ladies. Cavendish, his secretary, describes his pomp when he walked abroad
as follows: "First went the Cardinal's attendants, attired in boddices of crimson velvet with
gold chains, and the inferior officers in coats of scarlet bordered with black velvet. After
these came two gentlemen bearing the great seal and his Cardinal's hat, then two priests with
silver pillars and poleaxes, and next two great crosses of silver, whereof one of them was
for his Archbishoprick and the other for his legacy borne always before him, whithersoever
he went or rode. Then came the Cardinal himself, very sumptuously, on a mule trapped with crimson
velvet and his stirrup of copper gilt." Sometimes he preferred to make his progress on the
river, for which purpose he had a magnificent State barge "furnished with yeomen standing on
the bayles and crowded with his Gentlemen within and without."

His stables were also extensive. His choir far excelled that of the King. Besides all the officials
attendant on the Cardinal, Wolsey had 160 personal attendants, including his High Chamberlain,
vice-chamberlain; twelve gentlemen ushers, daily waiters; eight gentlemen ushers and waiters
of his privy chamber, nine or ten lords, forty persons acting as gentlemen cupbearers, carvers,
servers, etc., six yeomen ushers, eight grooms of the chamber, forty-six yeomen of his chamber
(one daily to attend upon his person), sixteen doctors and chaplains, two secretaries, three
clerks, and four counsellors learned in the law. As Lord Chancellor, he had an additional and
separate retinue, almost as numerous, including ministers, armourers, serjeants-at-arms, herald,
etc.

(b) Gifts from Foreign Powers

Nor was he above using the gentle suasion of his office to obtain sumptuous gifts from the
representatives of foreign powers--for Giustinian, on his return to Venice, reported to the
Doge and Senate that "Cardinal Wolsey is very anxious for the signory to send him a hundred
Damascene carpets for which he has asked several times, and expected to receive them by the
last galleys. This present," continues the diplomat, "might make him pass a decree in our favour;
and, at any rate, it would render the Cardinal friendly to our nation in other matters." The
carpets, it seems, were duly sent to the Cardinal.

(c) His Drinking Water

To show his disregard for money, it may be mentioned that in order to obtain pure water for
himself and his household, and not being satisfied with the drinking water at Hampton Court,
Wolsey had the water brought from the springs at Coombe Hill by means of leaden pipes, at a
cost, it is said, of something like £50,000.

(d) His Table

Wolsey seems to have been a lover of good food, for Skelton, for whose verse the Cardinal had
perhaps expressed contempt, wrote:

  "To drynke and for to eate
  Swete hypocras[3] and swete meate
  To keep his flesh chast
  In Lent for a repast
  He eateth capon's stew,
  Fesaunt and partriche mewed
  Hennes checkynges and pygges."

(Skelton, it should be explained, was the Poet Laureate.) It appears that on this score of
his delicate digestion, Wolsey procured a dispensation from the Pope for the Lenten observances.

He had not a robust constitution, and suffered from many ailments. On one occasion, Henry sent
him some pills--it is not recorded, however, that Wolsey partook of them.

(e) His Orange

Cavendish speaks of a peculiar habit of the great Cardinal. He tells us
that, "Whenever he was in a crowd or pestered with suitors, he most
commonly held to his nose a very fair orange whereof the meat or
substance within was taken out, and filled up again with the part of a
sponge, wherein was vinegar and other confections against the pestilent
airs!"
  Thus thwarting over them,
  He ruleth all the roast
  With bragging and with boast.
  Borne up on every side
  With pomp and with pride."

As a proof of his sensuous tastes, Cavendish wrote:

  "The subtle perfumes of musk and sweet amber
  There wanted none to perfume all my chamber."

(f) His Fool

That Wolsey, like Henry, was possessed of a sense of humour we have abundant evidence in his
utterances. Yet he kept a Fool about him--possibly in order that he might glean the opinions
of the courtiers and common people. After Wolsey's fall, he sent this Fool as a present to
King Henry. But so loth was the Fool to leave his master and to suffer what he considered a
social descent, that six tall yeomen had to conduct him to the Court; "for," says Cavendish,
"the poor fool took on and fired so in such a rage when he saw that he must needs depart from
my lord. Yet, notwithstanding, they conveyed him with Master Norris to the Court, where the
King received him most gladly."[4]

(g) Hampton Court

At his Palace of Hampton Court there were 280 beds always ready for strangers. These beds were
of great splendour, being made of red, green and russet velvet, satin and silk, and all with
magnificent canopies. The counterpanes, of which there were many hundreds, we are told, were
of "tawny damask, lined with blue buckram; blue damask with flowers of gold; others of red
satin with a great rose in the midst, wrought with needlework and with garters." Another is
described as "of blue sarcenet, with a tree in the midst and beastes with scriptures, all wrought
with needlework." The splendour of these beds beggars all description.

(h) His Plate

His gold and silver plate at Hampton Court alone, was valued by the Venetian Ambassador as
worth 300,000 golden ducats, which would be the equivalent in modern coin of a million and
a half! The silver was estimated at a similar amount. It is said that the quality was no less
striking than the quantity, for Wolsey insisted on the most artistic workmanship. He had also
a bowl of gold "with a cover garnished with rubies, diamonds, pearls and a sapphire set in
a goblet." These gorgeous vessels were decorated with the Cardinal's hat, and sometimes too,
less appropriately perhaps, with images of Christ!

It is said that the decorations and furniture of Wolsey's Palace were on so splendid a scale
that it threw the King's into the shade.

(i) His Prodigal Splendour

Like a wise minister, Wolsey did not neglect to entertain the King and keep his mind on trivial
things. Hampton Court had become the scene of unrestrained gaiety. Music was always played
on these occasions, and the King frequently took part in the revels, dancing, masquerading
and singing, accompanying himself on the harpsichord or lute.

The description in Cavendish's "Life of Wolsey" of the famous feast given by the Cardinal to
the French ambassadors gives a graphic account of his prodigal splendour. As to the delicacies
which were furnished at the supper, Cavendish writes:--

"Anon came up the second course with so many dishes, subtleties and curious devices, which
were above a hundred in number, of so goodly proportion and costly, that I suppose the Frenchmen
never saw the like. The wonder was no less than it was worthy, indeed. There were castles with
images in the same; Paul's Church and steeple, in proportion for the quantity as well counterfeited
as the painter should have painted it upon a cloth or wall. There were beasts, birds, fowls
of divers kinds, and personages, most lively made and counterfeit in dishes; some fighting,
as it were, with swords, some with guns and crossbows; some vaulting and leaping; some dancing
with ladies, some in complete harness, justing with spears, and with many more devices than
I am able with my wit to describe."

Giustinian, speaking of one of these banquets, writes: "The like of it was never given either
by Cleopatra or Caligula." We must remember that Wolsey surrounded himself with such worldly
vanities less from any vulgarity in his nature than from a desire to work upon the common mind,
ever ready to be impressed by pomp and circumstance.

The Mind of Wolsey

If the outer man was thus caparisoned, what of Wolsey's mind? Its furniture, too, beggared
all description. Amiable as Wolsey could be, he could also on occasions be as brusque as his
royal master. A contemporary writer says: "I had rather be commanded to Rome than deliver letters
to him and wait an answer. When he walks in the Park, he will suffer no suitor to come nigh
unto him, but commands him away as far as a man will shoot an arrow."

Yet to others he could be of sweet and gentle disposition and ready to listen and to help with
advice.

  "Lofty and sour to them that loved him not,
  But to those men that sought him sweet as summer."

To those who regard characters as either black or white, Wolsey's was indeed a contradiction.
Charges of a personal character have been brought against the great prelate, which need not
here be referred to, unless it be to say that if they were true, by so much the less he was
a priest, by so much more he was a man.

His Ambition

There is no doubt that the Cardinal made several attempts to become Pope--but this enterprise
was doomed to failure, although in it he was supported warmly by the King. To gain this end
much bribery was needed, "especially to the younger men who are generally the most needy,"
as the Cardinal said. Wolsey was a sufficiently accomplished social diplomatist to conciliate
the young, for their term of office begins to-morrow, and gold is the key of consciences. He
was hated and feared, flattered, cajoled and brow-beaten where possible. But as a source of
income he was ever held in high regard by the Pope.

His own annual income from bribes--royal and otherwise--was indeed stupendous, though these
were received with the knowledge of the King.

So great was the power Wolsey attained to that Fox said of him: "We have to deal with the Cardinal,
who is not Cardinal but King." He wrote of himself, "Ego et rex meus," and had the initials,
"T. W." and the Cardinal's hat stamped on the King's coins. These were among the charges brought
against him in his fall.

To his ambitions there was no limit. For the spoils of office he had "an unbounded stomach."

"He never granted audience either to English peers or foreign ambassadors" (says Guistinian)
"until the third or fourth time of asking." Small wonder that he incurred the hatred of the
nobility and the jealousy of the King. Had Wolsey's insolence been tempered by his sense of
humour, his fall might have been on a softer place, as his Fool is believed to have remarked.

His Policy

In his policy of the reform of the Church, Wolsey dealt as a giant with his gigantic task.
To quote a passage from Taunton: "Ignorance, he knew, was the root of most of the mischief
of the day; so by education he endeavoured to give men the means to know better. Falsehood
can only be expelled by Truth.... Had the other prelates of the age realized the true cause
of the religious disputes, and how much they themselves were responsible for the present Ignorance,
the sacred name of religion would not have had so bloody a record in this country."

Wolsey's idea was, in fact, to bring the clergy in touch with the thought and conditions of
the time. It is wonderful to reflect that this one brain should have controlled the secular
and ecclesiastical destinies of Christendom.

To reform the Church would seem to have been an almost superhuman undertaking, but to a man
of Wolsey's greatness obstacles are only incentives to energy. He was "eager to cleanse the
Church from the accumulated evil effects of centuries of human passions." A great man is stronger
than a system, while he lives; but the system often outlives the man. Wolsey lived in a time
whose very atmosphere was charged with intrigue. Had he not yielded to a Government by slaughter,
he would not have existed.

The Cardinal realised that ignorance was one of the chief causes of the difficulties in the
Church. So with great zeal he devoted himself to the founding of two colleges, one in Ipswich,
the other in Oxford. His scheme was never entirely carried out, for on Wolsey's fall his works
were not completed. The College at Ipswich fell into abeyance, but his college at Oxford was
spared and refounded. Originally called Cardinal College, it was renamed Christ Church, so
that not even in name was it allowed to be a memorial of Wolsey's greatness.

His Genius

For a long time Wolsey was regarded merely as the type of the ambitious and arrogant ecclesiastic
whom the Reformation had made an impossibility in the future. It was not till the mass of documents
relating to the reign of Henry VIII. was published that it was possible to estimate the greatness
of the Cardinal's schemes. He took a wider view of the problems of his time than any statesman
had done before. He had a genius for diplomacy. He was an artist and enthusiast in politics.
They were not a pursuit to him, but a passion. Not perhaps unjustly has he been called the
greatest statesman England ever produced.

England, at the beginning of Henry VIII.'s reign, was weakened after the struggles of the Civil
Wars, and wished to find peace at home at the cost of obscurity abroad. But it was this England
which Wolsey's policy raised "from a third-rate state of little account into the highest circle
of European politics." Wolsey did not show his genius to the best advantage in local politics,
but in diplomacy. He could only be inspired by the gigantic things of statecraft. When he was
set by Henry to deal with the sordid matter of the divorce, he felt restricted and cramped.
He was better as a patriot than as a royal servant. It was this feeling of being sullied and
unnerved in the uncongenial skirmishings of the divorce that jarred on his sensitive nature
and made his ambitious hand lose its cunning. A first-rate man cannot do second-rate things well.

Henry and Wolsey were two giants littered in one day. Wolsey had realised his possibilities
of power before Henry. But when Henry once learned how easy it was for him to get his own way,
Wolsey learned how dependent he necessarily was on the King's good will. And then, "the nation
which had trembled before Wolsey, learned to tremble before the King who could destroy Wolsey
with a breath."

Had Wolsey been able to fulfil his own ideals, had he been the head of a Republic and not the
servant of a King, his public record would no doubt have been on a higher ethical plane. That
he himself realised this is shown by his pathetic words to Sir William Kingston, which have
been but slightly paraphrased by Shakespeare: "Well, well, Master Kingston, I see how the matter
against me is framed, but if I had served my God as diligently as I have done the King, He
would not have given me over in my grey hairs." In this frankness we recognise once again a
flicker of greatness--one might almost say a touch of divine humour.

The lives of great men compose themselves dramatically; Wolsey's end was indeed a fit theme
for the dramatist.

His Fall

In his later years, Wolsey began to totter on his throne. The King had become more and more
masterful. It was impossible for two such stormy men to act permanently in concord. In 1528,
Wolsey said that as soon as he had accomplished his ambition of reconciling England and France,
and reforming the English laws and settling the succession, "he would retire and serve God
for the rest of his days." In 1529 he lost his hold over Parliament and over Henry. The Great
Seal was taken from him.

The end of Wolsey was indeed appalling in its sordid tragedy. The woman had prevailed--Anne's
revenge was sufficiently complete to satisfy even a woman scorned. The King, too, was probably
more inclined to lend a willing ear to her whisperings, since he had grown jealous of his minister's
greatness. He paid to his superior the tribute of hatred. Henry, who had treated the Cardinal
as his friend and "walked with him in the garden arm in arm and sometimes with his arm thrown
caressingly round his shoulder," now felt very differently towards his one-time favourite.

Covetous of Wolsey's splendour, he asked him why he, a subject, should have so magnificent
an abode as Hampton Court, whereupon Wolsey diplomatically answered (feeling perhaps the twitch
of a phantom rope around his neck), "To show how noble a palace a subject may offer to his
sovereign." The King was not slow to accept this offer, and thenceforth made Hampton Court
Palace his own.

Wolsey, too, was failing in body--the sharks that follow the ship of State were already scenting
their prey. As the King turned his back on Wolsey, Wolsey turned his face to God. Accused of
high treason for having acted as Legate, Wolsey pleaded guilty of the offence, committed with
the approval of the King. He was deprived of his worldly goods, and retired to his house at Esher.

Wolsey an Exile from Court

Cavendish says: "My Lord and his family continued there the space of three or four weeks without
beds, sheets, tablecloths, cups and dishes to eat our meat, or to lie in." He was forced to
borrow the bare necessaries of life. The mighty had fallen indeed! This was in the year 1529.
In his disgrace, he was without friends. The Pope ignored him. But Queen Katharine--noble in
a kindred sorrow--sent words of sympathy. Death was approaching, and Wolsey prepared himself
for the great event by fasting and prayer. Ordered to York, he arrived at Peterborough in Easter
Week. There it is said: "Upon Palm Sunday, he went in procession with the monks, bearing his
palm; setting forth God's service right honourably with such singing men as he then had remaining
with him.

He Washes the Feet of the Poor

And upon Maundy Thursday he made his Maundy in Our Lady's Chapel, having fifty-nine poor men,
whose feet he washed, wiped and kissed; each of these poor men had twelve pence in money, three
ells of canvas to make them shirts, a pair of new shoes, a cast of mead, three red herrings,
and three white herrings, and the odd person had two shillings. Upon Easter Day he rode to
the Resurrection,[5] and that morning he went in procession in his Cardinal's vesture, with
his hat and hood on his head, and he himself sang there the High Mass very devoutly, and granted
Clean Remission to all the hearers, and there continued all the holidays."

Arrived at York, he indulged with a difference in his old love of hospitality; "he kept a noble
house and plenty of both meat and drink for all comers, both for rich and poor, and much alms
given at his gates. He used much charity and pity among his poor tenants and others." This
caused him to be beloved in the country. Those that hated him owing to his repute learned to
love him--he went among the people and brought them food and comforted them in their troubles.
Now he was loved among the poor as he had been feared among the great.

Condemned to the Tower

On the 4th November, he was arrested on a new charge of high treason and condemned to the Tower.
He left under custody amid the lamentations of the poor people, who in their thousands crowded
round him, crying: "God save your Grace! God save your Grace! The foul evil take all them that
hath thus taken you from us! We pray God that a very vengeance may light upon them." He remained
at Sheffield Park, the Earl of Shrewsbury's seat, for eighteen days. Here his health broke
down. There arrived, with twenty-four of the Guard from London, Sir William Kingston with order
to conduct him to the Tower. The next day, in spite of increasing illness, he set out, but
he could hardly ride his mule.

His End

Reaching the Abbey at Leicester on the 26th of November, and being received by the Benedictine
monks, he said: "Father Abbot, I am come hither to leave my bones among you." Here he took
to his last bed, and made ready to meet his God.

The following morning, the 29th of November, he who had trod the ways of glory and sounded
all the depths and shoals of honour, he who had shaped the destinies of Empires, before whom
Popes and Parliaments had trembled, he who had swathed himself in the purple of kingdom, of
power and of glory, learned the littleness of greatness and entered the Republic of Death in
a hair-shirt.

KATHARINE

For purity and steadfastness of devotion and duty, Katharine stands unsurpassed in the history
of the world, and Shakespeare has conceived no more pathetic figure than that of the patient
Queen living in the midst of an unscrupulous Court.

Daughter of Ferdinand and Isabella of Spain, she was betrothed at the age of five to Arthur,
Henry VII.'s eldest son. Though known as the Princess of Wales, it was not till 1501, when
only sixteen years old, that she was married to Prince Arthur. She had scarcely been married
six months when Arthur died, at the early age of fifteen, and she was left a widow. Henry VII.,
in his desire to keep her marriage dower of 200,000 crowns, proposed a marriage between her
and Arthur's brother. Katharine wrote to her father saying she had "no inclination for a second
marriage in England." In spite of her remonstrances and the misgivings of the Pope, who had
no wish to give the necessary dispensation for her to marry her deceased husband's brother,
she was betrothed to Henry after two years of widowhood. But it was not till a few months after
Henry VIII. came to the throne, five years later, that they were actually married. Henry was
five years younger than Katharine, but their early married life appears to have been very happy.
She wrote to her father, "Our time is ever passed in continual feasts."

The cruel field sports of the time the Queen never could take any delight in, and avoided them
as much as possible. She was pious and ascetic and most proficient in needlework. Katharine
had a number of children, all of whom died shortly after birth. It was this consideration in
the first instance which weighed in Henry's mind in desiring a divorce. The first child to
survive was Princess Mary, born in February, 1516. Henry expressed the hope that sons would
follow. But Katharine had no further living children. Henry hoped against hope, and undertook,
in the event of her having an heir, to lead a crusade against the Turks. Even this bribe to
fortune proved unavailing. Henry's conscience, which was at best of the utilitarian sort, now
began to suffer deep pangs, and in 1525, when Katharine was forty years old and he thirty-four,
he gave up hope of the much-needed heir to the throne. The Queen herself thought her childlessness
was "a judgment of God, for that her former marriage was made in blood," the innocent Earl
of Warwick having been put to death owing to the demand of Ferdinand of Aragon.

The King began to indulge in the superstition that his marriage with a brother's widow was
marked with the curse of Heaven. It is perhaps a strange coincidence that Anne Boleyn should
have appeared on the scene at this moment. Katharine seems always to have regarded her rival
with charity and pity. When one of her gentlewomen began to curse Anne as the cause of the
Queen's misery, the Queen stopped her. "Curse her not," she said, "but rather pray for her;
for even now is the time fast coming when you shall have reason to pity her and lament her case."

Undoubtedly Katharine's most notable quality was her dignity. Even her enemies regarded her
with respect. She was always sustained by the greatness of her soul, her life of right doing
and her feeling of being "a Queen and daughter of a King." Through all her bitter trials she
went, a pathetic figure, untouched by calumny. If she had any faults they are certainly not
recorded in history. Her farewell letter to the King would seem to be very characteristic of
Katharine's beauty of character. She knew the hand of death was upon her. She had entreated
the King, but Henry had refused her request for a last interview with her daughter Mary.

With this final cruelty fresh in her mind she still could write: "My lord and dear husband,--I
commend me unto you. The hour of my death draweth fast on, and my case being such, the tender
love I owe you forceth me with a few words, to put you in remembrance of the health and safeguard
of your soul, which you ought to prefer before all worldly matters, and before the care and
tendering of your own body, for the which you have cast me into many miseries and yourself
into many cares. For my part I do pardon you all, yea, I do wish and devoutly pray God that
He will pardon you."

ANNE BOLEYN

The estimation of the character of Anne Boleyn would seem to be as varied as the spelling of
her name. She is believed to have been born in 1507. The Boleyns or Bullens were a Norfolk
family of French origin, but her mother was of noble blood, being daughter of the Earl of Ormonde,
and so a descendant of Edward I. It is a curious fact that all of Henry's wives can trace their
descent from this King. Of Anne's early life little is known save that she was sent as Maid
of Honour to the French Queen Claude. She was probably about nineteen years old when she was
recalled to the English Court and began her round of revels and love intrigues. Certainly she
was a born leader of men; many have denied her actual beauty, but she had the greater quality
of charm, the power of subjugating, the beckoning eye. An accomplished dancer, we read of her
"as leaping and jumping with infinite grace and agility." "She dressed with marvellous taste
and devised new robes," but of the ladies who copied her, we read that unfortunately "none
wore them with her gracefulness, in which she rivalled Venus." Music, too, was added to her
accomplishments, and Cavendish tells us how "when she composed her hands to play and her voice
to sing, it was joined with that sweetness of countenance that three harmonies concurred."

It is difficult to speak with unalloyed admiration of Anne's virtue. At the most charitable
computation, she was an outrageous flirt. It would seem that she was genuinely in love with
Lord Percy, and that Wolsey was ordered by the then captivated and jealous King to put an end
to their intrigue and their desire to marry. Anne is supposed never to have forgiven Wolsey
for this, and by a dramatic irony it was her former lover, Percy, then become Earl of Northumberland,
who was sent to arrest the fallen Cardinal at York. It is said that he treated Wolsey in a
brutal manner, having his legs bound to the stirrup of his mule like a common criminal. When
Henry, in his infatuation for the attractive Lady-in-Waiting to his Queen, as she was then,
wished Wolsey to become the aider and abettor of his love affairs, Wolsey found himself placed
in the double capacity of man of God and man of Kings. In these cases, God is apt to go to
the wall--for the time being. But it was Wolsey's vain attempt to serve two masters that caused
his fall, which the French Ambassador attributed entirely to the ill offices of Anne Boleyn.
This is another proof that courtiers should always keep on the right side of women.

