HISTORIC

DOUBTS

RELATIVE TO

NAPOLEON BUONAPARTE.

  Is not the same reason available in theology and in politics?...
  Will you follow truth but to a certain point?—BURKE'S
  Vindication of Natural Society.

  The first author who stated fairly the connexion between the
  evidence of testimony and the evidence of experience, was Hume, in
  his ESSAY ON MIRACLES; a work abounding in maxims of great use in
  the conduct of life.—Edinburgh Review, Sept. 1814, p. 328.

NEW EDITION.

LONDON: LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. MDCCCLXV.

PREFACE.

Several of the readers of this little work (first published in 1819) have derived much amusement
from the mistakes of others respecting its nature and object. It has been by some represented
as a serious attempt to inculcate universal scepticism; while others have considered it as
a jeu d'esprit, &c.[1] The author does not, however, design to entertain his readers with accounts
of the mistakes which, have arisen respecting it; because many of them, he is convinced, would
be received with incredulity; and he could not, without an indelicate exposure of individuals,
verify his anecdotes.

But some sensible readers have complained of the difficulty of determining what they are to
believe. Of the existence of Buonaparte, indeed, they remained fully convinced; nor, if it
were left doubtful, would any important results ensue; but if they can give no satisfactory
reason for their conviction, how can they know, it is asked, that they may not be mistaken
as to other points of greater consequence, on which they are no less fully convinced, but on
which all men are not agreed? The author has accordingly been solicited to endeavour to frame
some canons which may furnish a standard for determining what evidence is to be received.

This he conceives to be impracticable, except to that extent to which it is accomplished by
a sound system of Logic; including under that title, a portion—that which relates to the "Laws
of Evidence"—of what is sometimes treated under the head of "Rhetoric." But the full and complete
accomplishment of such an object would confer on Man the unattainable attribute of infallibility.

But the difficulty complained of, he conceives to arise, in many instances, from men's mis-stating
the grounds of their own conviction. They are convinced, indeed, and perhaps with very sufficient
reason; but they imagine this reason to be a different one from what it is. The evidence to
which they have assented is applied to their minds in a different manner from that in which
they believe that it is—and suppose that it ought to be—applied. And when challenged to defend
and justify their own belief, they feel at a loss, because they are attempting to maintain
a position which is not, in fact, that in which their force lies.

For a development of the nature, the consequences, and the remedies of this mistake, the reader
is referred to "Hinds on Inspiration," pp. 30-46. If such a development is to be found in any
earlier works, the Author of the following pages at least has never chanced to meet with any
attempt of the kind.[2]

It has been objected, again, by some persons of no great logical accuracy of thought, that
as there would not be any moral blame imputable to one who should seriously disbelieve, or
doubt, the existence of Buonaparte, so neither is a rejection of the Scripture-histories to
be considered as implying anything morally culpable.

The same objection, such as it is, would apply equally to many of the Parables of the New Testament.
It might be said, for instance, that as a woman who should decline taking the trouble of searching
for her lost "piece of silver," or a merchant who should neglect making an advantageous purchase
of a "goodly pearl," would be guilty of no moral wrong, it must follow that there is nothing
morally wrong in neglecting to reclaim a lost sinner, or in rejecting the Gospel, &c.

But any man of common sense readily perceives that the force of these parables consists in
the circumstance that men do not usually show this carelessness about temporal goods; and,
therefore, are guilty of gross and culpable inconsistency, if they are comparatively careless
about what is far more important.

So, also, in the present case. If any man's mind were so constituted as to reject the same
evidence in all matters alike—if, for instance, he really doubted or disbelieved the existence
of Buonaparte, and considered the Egyptian pyramids as fabulous, because, forsooth, he had
no "experience" of the erection of such huge structures, and had experience of travellers telling
huge lies—he would be regarded, perhaps, as very silly, or as insane, but not as morally culpable.
But if (as is intimated in the concluding sentence of this work) a man is influenced in one
case by objections which, in another case, he would deride, then he stands convicted of being
unfairly biassed by his prejudices.

It is only necessary to add, that as this work first appeared in the year 1819, many things
are spoken of in the present tense, to which the past would now be applicable.

Postscripts have been added to successive editions in reference to subsequent occurrences.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] It was observed by some reviewer, that Hume himself, had he been alive, would doubtless
have highly enjoyed the joke! But even those who have the greatest delight in ridicule, do
not relish jokes at their own expense. Hume may have inwardly laughed, while mystifying his
readers with arguments which he himself perceived to be futile. But he did not mean the readers
to perceive this. And it is not likely that he would have been amused at seeing his own fallacies
exposed and held up to derision.

[2] See Elements of Rhetoric, p. i. ch. 2, § 4.

       *       *       *       *       *

HISTORIC DOUBTS RELATIVE TO NAPOLEON BUONAPARTE.

Long as the public attention has been occupied by the extraordinary personage from whose ambition
we are supposed to have so narrowly escaped, the subject seems to have lost scarcely anything
of its interest. We are still occupied in recounting the exploits, discussing the character,
inquiring into the present situation, and even conjecturing as to the future prospects of Napoleon
Buonaparte.

Nor is this at all to be wondered at, if we consider the very extraordinary nature of those
exploits, and of that character; their greatness and extensive importance, as well as the unexampled
strangeness of the events, and also that strong additional stimulant, the mysterious uncertainty
that hangs over the character of the man. If it be doubtful whether any history (exclusive
of such as is confessedly fabulous) ever attributed to its hero such a series of wonderful
achievements compressed into so small a space of time, it is certain that to no one were ever
assigned so many dissimilar characters.

It is true, indeed, that party-prejudices have drawn a favourable and an unfavourable portrait
of almost every eminent man; but amidst all the diversities of colouring, something of the
same general outline is always distinguishable. And even the virtues in the one description
bear some resemblance to the vices of another: rashness, for instance, will be called courage,
or courage, rashness; heroic firmness, and obstinate pride, will correspond in the two opposite
descriptions; and in some leading features both will agree. Neither the friends nor the enemies
of Philip of Macedon, or of Julius Cæsar, ever questioned their COURAGE, or their MILITARY SKILL.

