 This obedience I expected from you, my son. Abdallah is his father's love not repay with ingratitude.

Abdallah.
No, never my father.

Selim. You love not, my son?

Abdallah. I love only you and Omar. -

Selim. Let this child's love never go out in your breast. - Abubeker daughter - or my curse!

Selim saw him with a piercing halberzürnenden look that Abdullah did not understand. It was a cold solid
look that is indelibly marked with the terrible curse words grub
in Abdallah's memory, this looks like a flash of lightning suddenly
turned the strange Ignorance of Omar in his soul, - when he entered.

He saw to it again and it was quite old, friendly, well-known Omar,
and he went away happy and all his anxious fears were gone.

Chapter Five.

Abubeker now "also appeared in the room with him and several of his and Selim's friends.

Abubeker was an old man of seventy years, his face was long and gaunt, his eyes gently and his
silver-white beard fell on his venerable breast. For a long time was he died the world, without
that he or she missed him and he lived with his daughter in a domestic solitude, only known by
his friends and honored. He was in the field brought up and become an old man under the armor,
the enemy had feared his bravery and in his manhood Abubeker name was known throughout the land,
but with the services of the commander also disappears the thanks of the people, the glory is like
the fog that wraps itself apart over the whole milieu and stretched
the furthest, disappears.

In the camp and in battle Abubeker had his spirit can only make little
he thought only gradually and steadfastly insisted on each formed
an opinion, his every Convictions, he was reluctant to take a new
and put in its place: for that wherein He had once thought he seemed
the only and final truth.

Selim bewillkommte him and his companions, and all sat down.

A brief silence was staying on the Assembly, as Selim stood up at last, Abubeker hand seized
and taken as a sacred fire, which went on:

Abubeker, you are my friend and what's more, an honest man, you're
the all of you are present, and would be one among us who wore not
this great feeling in his bosom, the removed himself before I speak
further, because my words are good for no ignoble ear. - But no, -
the noblest men of the State gathered here and therefore should boldly
my thoughts and words are all the same way transform.

For the Biederman Biedermann must without circumlocution To speak
and that fact was the cause of my invitation.

All were silent; Selim stood and looked around in the Assembly, he continued:

Abubeker, perhaps you remember the golden days when the scepter of the wise Alfargo this country,
dominated as an everlasting peace on the frontiers of the empire controlled as a unbreakable loyalty
all subjects in a beautiful ribbon and the united arms of the prince Was when the luck was
living in our homes, as - what the beautiful memories, friends? this Time was and is no more,
the sun ray that shakes shy of the prison walls, makes the prisoner to prison close, this memory is
to us what the lost wanderer in the stormy night the light extinguished. We were happy to jump
from the thought the sad conviction that we are unhappy! - Like the storm, the air hangs heavy
and pressured over our country, the workers have left fearful hide the field and in caves,
the grass trembles softly the coming storm, all nature breathes heavily and waiting with anxious
impatience the collapsing weather. - This is the image of our country, Friends, smiles, no face,
that shines as the foolish children, no eye, as the Eye of the dying, no joy laughing sad heart
- sad, with drooping Head, absorbed in ourselves, by any sense out of our cheerful black dreams
awakened, stand, we rely on a sharp, meerumheulten cliff and sue in the wild noise the lake.
- And why our tears, hanging as heavy in the red with weeping eyes
songs? Why suppressed sighs swell our hearts so high? - Are the gentle
fields around us Deserts of sand now?

And the two pairs of feet that first touched good earth so hesitatingly with those crumpled
shoes are now standing firmly in wool-lined rubber boots topped by brown corduroy trousers,
upon the winter slat walk that leads to the tool house, while their owners, touched by the
swish of the Whirlpool that has recently drawn this peaceful town into its eddies, are busy
trying to turn their patrol wagon, that for a year has led a most conservative existence as
a hay wain and a stage-coach dragged by a curiously assorted team of dogs and goat, into the
semblance of some weird sort of autocart, by the aid of bits of old garden hose, cast-away
bicycle gearing, a watering-pot, and an oil lantern.

I have wondered for a week past what yeast was working in their brains. 

Chapter Four.

Selim was in deep thought, as Abdallah came in to him, he noticed his son and was on. I have
sent for you, "he said to you to announce important news, has Omar
you not told?

Nothing answered, Abdallah - but the name you've known, my father remembers me a request, tell
me who is this Omar?

And how You come so suddenly on the question, asked Selim, you know him for so long and it never
occurred to you to be informed in more detail from him.

This Omar, Abdallah said, my second father, for you I love him the most, perhaps, if I am to
be honest, I have between you and him all my love equally distributed. - So far down as my
memory in the past, just as long as I am also aware that Omar and he was the playmate of my
childhood and is the teacher my youth, a boy could I me God never help but think and think Omar
is now " he gave me a picture of wisdom. Everything I think and I know I have drawn from it - without
his love I could not be happy. - He is known to me as my own Figure, his mind is so familiar
to my soul, I nestle so childish of him, all his features have I so often regarded and deeply
influenced in my soul - only yesterday evening It was a magical night in which my imagination more
raised than usual - or was it the empty sober awakening from a slumber, find us at once in the
countryside one hundred convoluted structure to face; when I went through the woods with Omar
went back to town, suddenly kicked me in the strange feeling as if a strange man going to my site -
I was a hundred times about to draw my hand from his, I did not dare
him to see, the uncertain light of the night flew around him and blocked
all of its known Trains - I was torn out of myself - I followed him
with a shudder.

Selim. In the years when the imagination is our nurse, play thousands enthusiasms and deceptive
feelings melt away around us, the resort when we return to them in our air and Spirit to a sluggish,
that lead-free tranquility.

The male youth must all these childish fancies reject with a serious
look, undisturbed on its path further go and this morning mists give
not even a discarded eye.

Abdallah. Since yesterday, but the idea worries me. Tell me who is this Omar?

I will tell you everything I know about him, replied Selim; you have
it until now "as your teacher and friend loved, you will now honor
him as your benefactor. - Ali, like a consuming fire in the body of
his country's raging against the thousand curses of widows and orphans
floating restlessly around the throne of God, Ali also had me in a
thousand made miserable. 

Omar. Often, however, prevails in the omnipotence of their impenetrability and storage before
the cheeky Eyes darkness around him. Often the back the inexorable fate, it tears the Thread
on which it draws the people and let him go without cable. Then it looks at the Path of the
wanderer, and he stands down with perpetual trains on the imperishable board. Then is the name
of people enrolled in the blessed or damned, without foreign pressure stand at the heart of
the virtue or vice.

Abubeker. I grasp the meaning of your words, Omar. If the eternal unchangeable fate never man
from his hand could be, then we drifted down a raging stream without
our guilt, perhaps the boat to a rock smashed or sunk into the sea.

Omar. All contradictions are united then in a center, all of nature would be a Flute, forever
on the computer jargon, the notes of the creative artist, no That was ours, innocent all returned
to the Creator. - No, Abubeker when the Lord for his goodness and the Truck permits, it is he would
not himself but that the wicked leads him from the its essence beyond
reproach, for he is the good itself; vernünfteln blind him from his
glory, with precisely the reason that he loaned us to recognize him.

Abubeker. An error was mistaken, Omar.

Omar. A breath of his being quietly slipped to the ground and there was dust on people. This divine
spark that made the night begotten him kindly, is to him from the beasts of the forest, the trees
and rock walls stands out, this is the great sign, recognized by
the people themselves, the infallible pledge that beyond us a new
life counter when the soul here again shakes off the dust of the anger
and the valley leaves to climb a beautiful hill.

Abubeker. Your words inspire in my heart a sun that illuminates
the darkness. He clearly inherits father's medical instinct of preserving life, and the very thought
of suffering on the part of man or beast arouses him to action. 

Abdallah was thinking. A new appreciation bound him tightly to Omar and was hanging on his Teach
even greater weight, his teacher was undoubted virtue, the more reliable had to be his wisdom,
and the vicious, who denies that virtue is not heard but if the noble enough the bad guy's hand
and called him brother boldly, then hesitates the proud virtue and looks doubtful in their
inner being.

You are silent, Selim began again, so now you are not eager to hear
the message that I had to announce to you?

Abdallah. Forgive my father - I hear. -

Selim.

You shall marry you.

Abdallah. Your bid is my will.

Selim. Abubeker the noble daughter.

Abdallah.
You want it and she is my wife. A lovely morning Roth played in the
cheerful sound of the waves around us, the tide falls back and our boat is on a dry rocky ground
in brackets. - Fortune has served us his hand to eternal farewell and we see displeasure to his
departure. - And consoles us because of our no substitute Loss and we are not even eager, to learn
the cause of our misery?

O all-good to let your actions do not penetrate, for he is not angry, the generous nature has
no bare hand is stretched out over us. - But what about human violence constricted our hearts
so powerfully together? Anyone who proposes this darkening vault around us? - O that I must
say it schaamroth, - a stranger would mock amazement our weakness,
- A man!

Him carry our fields, it flows back as a greedy sea, all our work, we live only for him, for the
only one fight in all our useless armed forces. - Him have you, the ungrateful, your battles fought,
Abubeker, it is the plague that the country consumed behind his throne is our sun has, in his terrible
omnipotence is the death of all of our friends. - Life and death he has to distort the balance,
his moods swaying our happiness depends, storm thundering from his angry eyes, the smile of his mouth
is our refreshing spring sunshine, his words of eternal immutable Laws - we stand there and
feel that we are miserable, and o the shame! - We content us so that
we feel it! 

Abdallah. Omar?

Selim. Your teacher Omar. - Him I owe everything I have, all I have is only a good that he has
lent me. - I sat down at the farthest limits of the empire, changed my name and called me Selim.
Here I was, Ali's cruelty and greed sure until now he has changed his residence for a year and
go here. - I was now "just as happy as I could be when, after three
years, a strange Release visited my house. Is no one who takes up arms and avenge himself and his brothers? No one? - Oh, I was
wrong, I forgot that I live jetzo here, now, where slavery intact, where our greatest wish is the
most shameful of his slaves. - The time has its circle made and taken away all that is noble
in our years, she has only me unhappy lonely leave.

He was silent. - The men were glowing, the arms of young men twitched
involuntarily. 

Omar. You shall and you'll never part with this weakness, - only the pride of this is Not selfishness,
is the selfish pleasure, a dream is not a pleasure. -

A slave came and said Abdallah to his father, Selim.

Omar. Depends
a consuming disease over our heads? Our friends are different? -

Oh yes, our friends are different, a plague wild looks down on us,
the sun is We went down and the flower of our corridors is gone! From the time he could
form distinct sounds he has called me Barbara, and no amount of reasoning will make him do
otherwise, while the imitation of his father's pronunciation of the word goes to my heart. You
were a summer ago and smiled at your mother's breast without understanding the misery contrary.
- We left the city and wandered over unknown mountains to other areas the misery was next to
us and gave us the poor food, all my friends left me as if they had never known me, worry and
poverty were our only inseparable Companion, so we walked from town to town and lived on the meager
alms to us the compassion of the people threw. - A silent grief rummaged invisible in the hearts
of your Mother, she smiled and handed me goodbye - and went after a few hours in their better
back home. I stayed with my misfortune in solitude.
