"I don't account for it! But--why, of course! The boy locked it after him when he went away,
and took the key with him!" Joyce regarded her with scorn.

"That would be a sensible thing to do, now, wouldn't it. He writes a note that he is hoping
with all his heart that his mother will see. Then he calmly locks the door and walks off with
the key! What for?"

"If he didn't do it, who did?" Cynthia defended herself. "Not the servants. They went before
he did, probably. There's only one person left--his mother!"

"You've struck it at last. What a good guesser you are!" said Joyce, witheringly. Then she
relented. "Yes, she must have done it, Cynthia. She locked the door, and took the key away,
or did something with it,--though what on earth for, I can't imagine!"

"But what makes you think she did it before she read the note?" demanded Cynthia.

"There are just two reasons, Cynthia. She couldn't have been human if she'd read that heart-rending
letter and not gone to work at once and made every effort to reach her son! But there's one
other thing that makes me sure. Do you see anything different about this room?" Cynthia gazed
about her critically. Then she replied:

"Why, no. I can't seem to see anything so different. Perhaps I don't know what you mean."

"Then I'll tell you. Look at the windows! Are they like the ones in the rest of the house?"

"Oh, no!" cried Cynthia. "Now I see! The curtains are not drawn, or the shutters closed. It's
just dark because it's boarded up outside."

"That's precisely it!" announced Joyce. "You see, she must have gone around closing all the
other inside shutters tight. But she never touched them in this room. Therefore she probably
never came in here. The desk is right by the window. She couldn't have helped seeing the letter
if she had come in. No, for some reason we can't guess, she locked the door,--and never knew!"

"And she never, never will know," whispered Cynthia. "That's the saddest part of it!"

CHAPTER XII

A SLIGHT DISAGREEMENT

The Friday afternoon meeting of the Sigma Sigma literary society broke up with the usual confused
mingling of chatter and laughter. There had been a lively debate, and Joyce and Cynthia, as
two of the opponents, had just finished roundly and wordily belaboring each other. They entwined
arms now, amiably enough, and strolled away to collect their books and leave for home. Out
on the street, Cynthia suddenly began:

"Do you know, we've never had that illumination in the Boarded-up House that we planned last
fall, when we commenced cleaning up there."

"We never had enough money for candles," replied Joyce.

"Yes, I know. But still I've always wanted to do it. Suppose we buy some and try it soon,--say
to-morrow?" Joyce turned to her companion with an astonished stare.

"Why, Cynthia Sprague! You know it's near the end of the month, and I'm down to fifteen cents
again, and I guess you aren't much better off! What nonsense!"

"I have two dollars and a half. I've been saving it up ever so long--not for that specially--but
I'm perfectly willing to use it for that."

"Well, you are the queerest one!" exclaimed Joyce. "Who would have thought you'd care so much
about it! Of course, I'm willing to go in for it, but I can't give my share till after the
first of the month. Why do you want to do it so soon?"

"Oh, I don't know--just because I do!" replied Cynthia, a little confused in manner. "Come!
Let's buy the candles right off. And suppose we do a little dusting and cleaning up in the
morning, and fix the candles in the candelabrum, and in the afternoon light them up and have
the fun of watching them?" Joyce agreed to this heartily, and they turned into a store to purchase
the candles. Much to Joyce's amazement, Cynthia insisted on investing in the best wax ones
she could obtain, though they cost nearly five cents apiece.

"Tallow ones will do!" whispered Joyce, aghast at such extravagance. But Cynthia shook her
head, and came away with more than fifty.

"I wanted them good!" she said, and Joyce could not budge her from this position. Then, to
change the subject, which was plainly becoming embarrassing to her, Cynthia abruptly remarked:

"Don't forget, Joyce, that you are coming over to my house to dinner, and this evening we'll
do our studying, so that to-morrow we can have the whole day free. And bring your music over,
too. Perhaps we'll have time to practise that duet afterward."

"I will," agreed Joyce, and she turned in at her own gate.

Joyce came over that evening, bringing her books and music. As Mr. and Mrs. Sprague were occupying
the sitting-room, the two girls decided to work in the dining-room, and accordingly spread
out their books and papers all over the big round table. Cynthia settled down methodically
and studiously, as was her wont. But Joyce happened to be in one of her "fly-away humors" (so
Cynthia always called them), when she found it quite impossible to concentrate her thoughts
or give her serious attention to anything. These moods were always particularly irritating
to Cynthia, who rarely indulged in causeless hilarity, especially at study periods. Prudently,
however, she made no remarks.

"Let's commence with geometry," she suggested, opening the text-book. "Here we are, at Proposition
XVI."

"All right," assented Joyce, with deceptive sweetness. "Give me a pencil and paper, please."
Cynthia handed them to her and began:

"Angle A equals angle B."

"Angel A equals angel B," murmured Joyce after her.

"Joyce, I wish you would not say that!" interrupted Cynthia, sharply.

"Why not?" inquired Joyce with pretended surprise, at the same time decorating the corners
of her diagram with cherubic heads and wings.

"Because it confuses me so I can't think!" said Cynthia. "Please call things by their right names."

"But it makes no difference with the proof, what you call things in geometry," argued Joyce,
"whether it's angles or angels or caterpillars or coal-scuttles,--it's all the same in the
end!" Cynthia ignored this, swallowed her rising wrath, and doggedly began anew:

"Angle A equals angle B!" But Joyce, who was a born tease, could no more resist the temptation
of baiting Cynthia, than she could have refused a chocolate ice-cream soda, so she continued
to make foolish and irrelevant comments on every geometrical statement, until, in sheer exasperation,
Cynthia threw the book aside.

"It's no use!" she groaned. "You're not in a studying frame of mind, Joyce--certainly not for
geometry. I'll go over that myself Monday morning; but what you're going to do about it, I
don't know--and I don't much care! But we've got to get through somehow. Let's try the algebra.
You always like that. Do you think you could put your mind on it?"

"I'll try," grinned Joyce, in feigned contrition. "I'll make the greatest effort. But you don't
seem to realize that I'm actually working very hard to-night!" Cynthia opened her algebra,
picked out the problem, and read:

"'A farmer sold 300 acres--'" when Joyce suddenly interrupted:

"Do you know, Cynthia, I heard the most interesting problem the other day. I wonder if you
could solve it."

"What is it?" asked Cynthia, thankful for any awakening symptom of interest in her difficult
friend.

"Why, this," repeated Joyce with great gravity. "'If it takes an elephant ten minutes to put
on a white vest, how many pancakes will it take to shingle a freight-car?'" Cynthia's indignation
was rapidly waxing hotter but she made one more tremendous effort to control it.

"Joyce, I told you that I was serious about this studying."

"But so am I!" insisted the wicked Joyce. "Now let's try to work that out. Let x equal the
number of pancakes--" The end of Cynthia's patience had come, however. She pushed the books aside.

"Joyce Kenway, you are--abominable! I wish you would go home!"

"Well, I won't!" retorted Joyce, giggling inwardly, "but I'll leave you to your own devices,
if you like!" And she rose from the table, walked with great dignity to a distant rocking-chair,
seated herself in it, and pretended to read the daily paper which she had removed from its
seat. From time to time she glanced covertly in Cynthia's direction. But there was no sign
of relenting in that young lady. She was, indeed, too deeply indignant, and, moreover, had
immersed herself in her work. Presently Joyce gave up trying to attract her attention, and
began to read the paper in real earnest,--a thing which she seldom had the time or the interest
to do.

There was a long silence in the room, broken only by the scratch of Cynthia's pencil or the
rustling of a turned page. Suddenly Joyce looked up.

"Cynthia!" she began. Her voice sounded different now. It had lost its teasing tone and seemed
a little muffled. But Cynthia was obdurate.

"I don't want to talk to you!" she reiterated. "I wish you'd go home!"

"Very well, Cynthia, I will!" answered Joyce, quietly. And she gathered up her books and belongings,
giving her friend a queer look as she left the room without another word.

Later, Cynthia put away her work, yawned, and rose from the table. She was beginning to feel
just a trifle sorry that she had been so short with her beloved friend.

"But Joyce was simply impossible, to-night!" she mused. "I never knew her to be quite so foolish.
Hope she isn't really offended. But she'll have forgotten all about it by to-morrow morning....
I wonder where to-day's paper is? Joyce was reading it--or pretending to! I want to see the
weather report for to-morrow. I hope it's going to be fair.... Pshaw! I can't find it. She
must have gathered it up with her things and taken it with her. That was mighty careless--but
just like Joyce! I'm going to bed!"

CHAPTER XIII

THE GREAT ILLUMINATION

The next morning the two girls met, as though absolutely nothing unpleasant had happened. These
little differences were, as a fact, of frequent occurrence, and neither of them ever cherished
the least grudge toward the other when they were over. Not a word was said in reference to
it by either, but Cynthia noticed Joyce looking at her rather curiously several times. Finally
she asked:

"What are you staring at me so for, Joyce?"

"Oh, nothing! I wasn't staring," Joyce replied, and began to talk of something else.

"By the way, Cyn, why wouldn't it be a good idea to wait till next week before we have our
illumination? Perhaps we could get more candles by that time, too. I vote for next Saturday
instead of to-day."

"I can't see why you want to wait," replied Cynthia. "To-day is just as good a time as any.
In fact, I think it's better. Something might happen that would entirely prevent it next week.
No, let's have it to-day. My heart is set on it."

"Very well then," assented Joyce. "But, do you know, I believe, if this time is a success,
we might have it again next Saturday, too."

"Well, you can have it if you like, and if you can raise the money for candles," laughed Cynthia;
"but you mustn't depend on me. I'll be 'cleaned out' by that time!"

That morning they carefully dusted the drawing-room and library of the Boarded-up House.

"We'll put the candles in the drawing-room, in the big candelabrum. That will take about forty--and
we'll have enough for the library too," said Cynthia, planning the campaign. "And the rest
of the candles we'll put in the 'locked-up room.' Let's go right up there now and dust it!"

"Oh, what do you want to light that room for!" cried Joyce. "Don't let's go in there. It makes
me blue--even to think of it!" But Cynthia was obdurate.

"I want it lit up!" she announced. "If you don't feel like going up, I'll go myself. I don't
mind. But I want candles there!"

"Oh, if you insist, of course I'll go! But really, Cynthia, I don't quite understand you to-day.
You want to do such queer things!"

"I don't see anything queer about that!" retorted Cynthia, blushing hotly. "It just seemed--somehow--appropriate!"

But Joyce, in spite of her protests, accompanied Cynthia up the tiny, cramped stairway, the
entrance to which they had not blocked by restoring the book-shelves.

"What a strange thing it is,--this secret stairway!" she marveled aloud. "I'm sure it is a
secret stairway, and that it was long unused, even before Mrs. Collingwood left here. I even
feel pretty certain that she never knew it was here."

"How do you figure that out?" questioned Cynthia.

"Well, in several ways. For one thing, because it was all closed up and papered over. That
could have been done before she came here, and you know she only lived in this house eighteen
years. But mainly because there wouldn't have been much sense in her locking up the room (if
she did lock it) had she known there was another easy way of getting into it. No, I somehow
don't think she knew!"

They did their dusting in the locked-up room, and tried to make it look as ship-shape as possible,
carefully avoiding, however, the vicinity of the desk. Cynthia arranged six candles in holders,
ready to light, and they went down stairs again to arrange the others,--a task that was accomplished
with some difficulty, as the candelabrum was rather high, and they were obliged to stand on
chairs. At last all was ready and they hurried home to luncheon, agreeing to meet at two for
the "great illumination"!

When they returned that afternoon, Cynthia had smuggled over the gas-lighter, which they found
a boon indeed in lighting so many candles at such a height. When every tongue of flame was
sparkling softly, the girls stepped back to admire the result.

"Isn't it the prettiest thing you ever saw?" cried Joyce in an ecstasy of admiration. "It beats
a Christmas-tree all hollow! I've always heard that candle-light was the loveliest of all artificial
illumination, and now I believe it. Just see how this room is positively transformed! We never
saw those pictures properly before."

"Now it looks as it did fifty years ago," said Cynthia, softly. "Of course, houses were lighted
by gas then, but only city ones or those near the city. I know, because I've been asking about
it. Other people had to use horrid oil-lamps. But there were some who kept on having candles
because they preferred that kind of light--especially in country-houses. And evidently this
was one of them."

Joyce eyed her curiously.

"You've certainly been interested in the question of illumination, half a century ago,--but
why, Cynthia? I never knew you to go so deeply into anything of this kind before!" Cynthia
started, and blushed again.

"Do you think so," she stammered. "Oh, well!--it's only because this--this house has taken
hold of me--somehow. I can't get it out of my mind, day or night!"

"Yes," cried Joyce, "and I remember the day when I could hardly induce you to enter it! I just
had to pull you in, and you disputed every inch of the way!"

"That's the way with me," returned Cynthia. "I'm not quick about going into things, but once
I'm in, you can't get me out! And nothing I ever knew of has made me feel as this house has.
Now I'm going to light the candles in the locked-up room."

"That's the one thing I can't understand!" protested Joyce, as they climbed the tiny stairs
once more. "You seem perfectly crazy about that room, and it makes me so--so depressed that
I hate to go near it! I like the library and the picture of the Lovely Lady best."

Cynthia did not reply to this but lit the candles and gave a last look about. Then they returned
to the drawing-room. As there was nothing further to do but sit and enjoy the spectacle, the
two girls cuddled down on a roomy old couch or sofa, and watched with all the fascination that
one watches the soft illumination of a Christmas-tree. Sometimes they talked in low voices,
commenting on the scene, then they would be silent for a long period, simply drinking it in
and trying to photograph it forever on their memories. Joyce frankly and openly enjoyed it
all, but Cynthia seemed nervous and restless. She began at length to wriggle about, got up
twice and walked around restlessly, and looked at her watch again and again.

"I wonder how long these candles will last?" questioned Joyce, glancing at her own timepiece.
"They aren't a third gone yet. Oh, I could sit here and look at this for hours! It's all so
different from anything we've ever seen."

"What's that!" exclaimed Cynthia, suddenly and Joyce straightened up to listen more intently.

"I don't hear anything. What is the matter with you to-day, Cynthia Sprague?"

"I don't know. I'm nervous, I guess!"

"There-- I did hear something!" It was Joyce who spoke. "The queerest click! Good gracious,
Cynthia! Just suppose somebody should take it into his head to get in here to-day! Of all times!
And find this going on!" But Cynthia was not listening to Joyce. She was straining her ears
in another direction.

"There it is again! Somebody is at that front door!" cried Joyce. "I believe they must have
seen these lights through some chink in the boarding and are breaking in to find out what's
the matter! Perhaps they think--"

Cr-r-r-rack!-- Something gave with a long, resounding noise, and the two girls clasped each
other in an agony of terror. It came from the front door, there was no shadow of doubt, and
somebody had just succeeded in opening the little door in the boarding. There was still the
big main door to pass.

"Come!--quick!--quick!" whispered Joyce. "It will never do for us to be found here. We might
be arrested for trespassing! Let's slip down cellar and out through the window, and perhaps
we can get away without being seen. Never mind the candles! They'll never know who put them
there!-- Hurry!" She clutched at Cynthia, expecting instant acquiescence. But, to her amazement,
Cynthia stood firm, and boldly declared:

"No, Joyce, I'm not going to run away! Even if we got out without being seen, they'd be sure
to discover us sooner or later. We've left enough of our things around for that. I'm going
to meet whoever it is, and tell them we haven't done any real harm,--and so must you!"

All during this speech they could hear the rattle of some one working at the lock of the main
door. And a second after Cynthia finished, it yielded with another loud crack. Next, footsteps
were heard in the hall. By this time, Joyce was so paralyzed with fright that she could scarcely
move a limb, and speech had entirely deserted her. They were caught as in a trap! There was
no escape now. It was a horrible position. Cynthia, however, pulled her to her feet.

"Come!" she ordered. "We'd better meet them and face it out!" Joyce could only marvel at her
astonishing coolness, who had always been the most timid and terror-ridden of mortals.

At this instant, the drawing-room door was pushed open!

CHAPTER XIV

THE MEDDLING OF CYNTHIA

To Joyce, the moment that the drawing-room door was pushed open will always seem, with perhaps
one exception, the most intense of all her life. She fully expected to see a man stride in--more
likely half a dozen!--and demand the meaning of the unwarrantable intrusion and illumination.
Instead of that, the slight figure of a woman dressed all in black, and with a long heavy dark
veil over her face, stepped into the room!

For a moment she paused, surprised, uncertain, almost trembling. Then, with a firm movement,
she threw back her veil, and, in the soft light of the candles, stood revealed. Joyce gave
a tiny gasp. In all her life she had never seen so beautiful an old lady. Masses of soft wavy
white hair framed a face of singular charm, despite its age, and the biggest, saddest brown
eyes in all the world, looked out inquiringly on the two girls. There was complete silence.
The three could hear each other breathe. Then the newcomer spoke:

"Which of you two friends was it, may I ask, who sent me the letter?" Her voice was sweet and
low and soft, and as sad as her eyes. Joyce gave a start and opened her lips to speak, but
Cynthia was before her.

"I did!" she announced calmly. The lady turned to her.

"That was very lovely of you,--and very thoughtful. I began planning to come soon after I received
it, and tried to arrive at about the time you mentioned. But I do not quite understand all--all
this!" She glanced toward the burning candles. "And I'm afraid I do not understand how you--how
you came to be in here!"

"Oh," began Cynthia, stumblingly, "I--I couldn't quite explain it all in a letter--and I didn't
even know you'd pay any attention to what I wrote, anyway. But we'll tell you all about it
right now, if you care to hear." A light was beginning to dawn on the bewildered Joyce. Suddenly
she sprang forward and seized the lady's hand.

"Tell me--oh, please tell me," she cried, "are you Mrs. Collingwood?"

"Yes, my dear!" said the lady.

And to the amazement of every one Joyce broke down and began to sob hysterically, exclaiming,
"Oh, I'm so glad--so glad!" between every other sob.

"I think I'll sit down," said Mrs. Collingwood, when Joyce had regained control of herself.
"I'm very tired--and very, very--bewildered!" She sat down on the sofa, and drew each of the
girls down beside her.

"Now tell me," she said to Cynthia. "Explain it all, and then show me what you think will interest
me so. You see, I have traveled many weary miles to hear this strange story."

So Cynthia began at the beginning and told how they had first found their way in, and had then
become interested in unraveling the mystery of the old house. Mrs. Collingwood listened with
deep attention; but when Cynthia reached the tale of the hidden stairway, she started in surprise.

"Why, I never dreamed there was such a thing in the house!" she exclaimed. "The rooms were
re-papered once, but I was away when it was done. None of us knew!"

"No, we thought you didn't," continued Cynthia. "And so we went into the locked-up room. And
there we found something,--oh!--Mrs. Collingwood! We felt sure you had never seen it, and that
you ought to! You see, we knew all the rest of the--the story, from Joyce's great-aunt, Lucia
Kenway. And we felt you ought to see it,--at least I felt that way, and so I wrote you the
letter. I didn't even tell Joyce I'd done it, because--because I was afraid she'd think I was
meddling in what didn't concern me! But I couldn't help it. I couldn't sleep nights till I'd
sent that letter, because it all haunted me so! I just sent it to Chesterton, South Carolina,
because that was all the address I knew. I didn't even feel sure it would ever reach you.

"And I set a special date for you to get here on purpose, because--well, because I thought
we ought to be here to receive you, and have the place look sort of--homelike. It would be
terrible, seems to me, to come back to a dark, deserted house that you'd left so long ago,
and nobody here to--to welcome you. Well, that's all, I guess. But Mrs. Collingwood, I'm so
afraid we haven't done right,--that we meddled in what was no business of ours, and trespassed
in a house we should never have entered! I only hope you can forgive us!" Thus ended Cynthia,
brokenly, and Mrs. Collingwood put out her hands to take a hand of each girl in her clasp.

"You dear little meddlers!" she exclaimed. "This is all so astonishing to me; but I feel sure,
nevertheless, that you have done nothing but good! And now will you--will you show me what
you spoke of?"

Cynthia rose, handed her a lighted candle, and led her to the opening of the little stairway
in the library. "It's up these stairs, in the room above--on the desk," she said. "You will
find it all lit up there. And I think that--you would rather go--alone!" Mrs. Collingwood took
the candle, and Cynthia helped her into the opening at the foot of the stairs. Then she went
back to Joyce.

When they were alone, the two girls stood staring at one another and Cynthia's cheeks grew
fiery red.

"I don't know what--what you must think of me, Joyce!" she stammered. "I ought never to have
done this, I suppose, without telling you."

"Why didn't you tell me?" demanded Joyce.

"Why, I was so afraid you'd think me silly and--and meddling, and you mightn't approve of it.
I was unhappy,--I--somehow felt as though I'd committed a crime, and the only way to right
it was this!"

"How long ago did you send your letter?" asked Joyce, presently.

Cynthia considered. "I think I posted it a week ago Thursday."

"And you knew all the time, last night, that this was going to happen to-day?" asked Joyce
incredulously.

"Well, I sort of expected it,--that is, I really didn't know whether she'd come or not. It
made me dreadfully nervous, and that's the reason I was so cross to you, Joyce, I suppose.
Will you forgive me, now that you know?"

"Why, of course!" said Joyce. Then, suddenly, "But, oh!-- I wish I'd known this all at the time!"

"What for? What difference would it have made?" demanded Cynthia.

But Joyce only replied: "Hush! Is that Mrs. Collingwood coming down?"

CHAPTER XV

THE STRANGER AT THE DOOR

Mrs. Collingwood remained a long time up-stairs,--so long, indeed, that the girls began to
be rather uneasy, fearing that she had fainted, or perhaps was ill, or overcome--they knew
not what.

"Do you think we ought to go up?" asked Cynthia, anxiously. "Perhaps she needs help."

"No, I think she just wants to be by herself. It was fine of you, Cynthia, to send her up alone!
I really don't believe I'd have thought of it."

At length they heard her coming slowly down, and presently she reëntered the drawing-room.
They could see that she was much moved, and had evidently been crying. She did not speak to
them at once, but went and stood by the mantel, looking up long and earnestly at the portrait
of the twins.

"My babies!" they heard her murmur unconsciously, aloud. At last, however, she came to them,
and sat down once more between them on the sofa. They wondered nervously what she was going to say.

"My little girls--" she began, "forgive me!--you seem little and young to me, though. I suppose
you consider yourselves almost young ladies; but you see, I am an old woman!-- I was going
to tell you a little about my life, but I suppose you already know most of the important things,
thanks to Great-aunt Lucia!" She patted Joyce's hand.

"There are some things, however, that perhaps you do not know, and, after what you have done
for me, you deserve to. I was married when I was a very young girl--only seventeen. I was a
Southerner, but my husband came from the North, and brought me up North here to live. I always
hated it--this Northern life--and, though I loved my husband dearly, I hated his devotion to
it. We never agreed about those questions. When my twin babies were born, I secretly determined
that they should be Southerners, in spirit, and only Southerners. I planned that when they
were both old enough, they should marry in the South and live there--and my husband and I with
them.

"But, in this life, things seldom turn out as we plan. My little girl died before she was three;
and I had scarcely become reconciled to this grief when my husband was also taken from me.
So I centered all my hopes on my son--on Fairfax. As he grew older, however, and as the Civil
War came nearer, I noticed that he talked more and more in sympathy with the North, and this
distressed me terribly. However, I thought it best not to say much about it to him, for he
was a headstrong boy, and had always resented opposition. And I felt sure that he would see
things differently when he was older.

"I wished to send him to a Southern college, but he begged me to send him to Harvard. As his
heart was so set on it, I couldn't deny him, thinking that even this would make little difference
in the end. Then came the crisis in the country's affairs, and the Confederacy was declared.
I had already begun to correspond with Southern authorities, to arrange about raising a company
for Fairfax. I never doubted that he would comply with my wishes. But I little knew him!

"I hardly need to tell you of the awful day that he came home. You are already acquainted with
the history of it. That afternoon, shortly after he arrived, we had our interview. I have always
possessed the most violent temper a mortal had to struggle with. And in those earlier years,
when I got into a rage, it blinded me to everything else, to every other earthly consideration.
And during that interview, well,--need I say it?--Fairfax was simply immovable,--gentle and
loving always,--but I could no more impress him with my wishes than I could have moved the
Rock of Gibraltar. The galling part to me was--that he kept insisting he was only doing what
was right! Right?-- How could he be right when it was all directly contrary-- But never mind
that now! I have learned differently, with the passing, sorrowful years.

"But, to go back,--I stood it as long as I could, and then,--I turned from him, disowned him,
bade him leave the house at once and never see my face again, and informed him that I myself
would abandon the place on the morrow, and return to the South. He left me, without another
word, and went to his room. I immediately summoned the servants and dismissed them on the spot,
giving them only time to get their things together and go. Then I locked myself in my room
till--he was gone. He came several times, knocked at my door, and begged me to see him, but
I would not. Heaven forgive me!-- I would not! So he must have left me--that note!" She covered
her eyes with her hand a moment. Then she went on:

"I never saw or knew of it till this day. If I had--" Just at this point, they were all startled
by a loud knock, coming from the direction of the front door. So unexpected was the sound that
they could only stare at each other inquiringly without stirring. In a moment it came again,--a
thumping of the old knocker on the front inner door.

"I guess I'd better go," said Joyce. "Some one may have seen the little boarded-up door open--
Did you leave it open?" she asked, turning to Mrs. Collingwood.

"I think I did. I was too hurried and nervous, when I came in, to think of it."

"That's it, then. Some one has seen it open, and has stopped to inquire if everything is all
right." She hurried away to the front door, and, after an effort, succeeded in pulling it open.
A man--a complete stranger to her--stood outside. They regarded each other with mutual surprise.

"Pardon me!" he said. "But perhaps you can inform me--is any one living in this house at present?"

"Why, no!" replied Joyce, rather confusedly. "That is--no, the house is empty, except just--just
to-day!"

