Frontispiece: The Attempted Abduction Original painting by B. Wesley Rand]

Beaux & Belles of England

Mrs. Mary Robinson

Written by Herself

With the Lives of the Duchesses of Gordon and Devonshire by Grace and Philip Wharton

London

EDITION DE LUXE

INTRODUCTION TO THE ORIGINAL EDITION

The following brief memoirs of a beautiful, engaging, and, in many respects, highly gifted
woman require little in the way of introduction. While we may trace same little negative disingenuousness
in the writer, in regard to a due admission of her own failings, sufficient of uncoloured matter
of fact remains to show the exposed situation of an unprotected beauty--or, what is worse,
of a female of great personal and natural attraction, exposed to the gaze of libertine rank
and fashion, under the mere nominal guardianship of a neglectful and profligate husband. Autobiography
of this class is sometimes dangerous; not so that of Mrs. Robinson, who conceals not the thorns
inherent in the paths along which vice externally scatters roses; For the rest, the arrangement
of princely establishments in the way of amour is pleasantly portrayed in this brief volume,
which in many respects is not without its moral. One at least is sufficiently obvious, and
it will be found in the cold-hearted neglect which a woman of the most fascinating mental and
personal attractions may encounter from those whose homage is merely sensual, and whose admiration
is but a snare.

EDITOR'S PREFACE

The author of these memoirs, Mary Robinson, was one of the most prominent and eminently beautiful
women of her day. From the description she furnishes of her personal appearance, we gather
that her complexion was dark, her eyes large, her features expressive of melancholy; and this
verbal sketch corresponds with her portrait, which presents a face at once grave, refined,
and charming. Her beauty, indeed, was such as to attract, amongst others, the attentions of
Lords Lyttelton and Northington, Fighting Fitzgerald, Captain Ayscough, and finally the Prince
of Wales; whilst her talents and conversation secured her the friendship and interest of David
Garrick, Richard Brinsley Sheridan, Charles James Fox, Joshua Reynolds, Arthur Murphy, the
dramatist, and various other men of distinguished talent.

Though her memoirs are briefly sketched, they are sufficiently vivid to present us with various
pictures of the social life of the period of which she was the centre. Now we find her at the
Pantheon, with its coloured lamps and brilliant music, moving amidst a fashionable crowd, where
large hoops and high feathers abounded, she herself dressed in a habit of pale pink satin trimmed
with sable, attracting the attention of men of fashion. Again she is surrounded by friends
at Vauxhall Gardens, and barely escapes from a cunning plot to abduct her,--a plot in which
loaded pistols and a waiting coach prominently figure; whilst on another occasion she is at
Ranelagh, where, in the course of the evening, half a dozen gallants "evinced their attentions;"
and ultimately she makes her first appearance as an actress on the stage of Drury Lane, before
a brilliant house, David Garrick, now retired, watching her from the orchestra, whilst she
played Juliet in pink satin richly spangled with silver, her head ornamented with white feathers.

The fact of her becoming an actress brought about the turning-point in her life; it being whilst
she played Perdita in "The Winter's Tale" before royalty that she attracted the Prince of Wales,
afterward George IV., who was then in his eighteenth year. The incidents which follow are so
briefly treated in the memoirs that explanations are necessary to those who would follow the
story of her life.

The performance of the play in which the prince saw her, probably for the first time, took
place on the 3d of December, 1779. It was not until some months later, during which the prince
and Perdita corresponded, that she consented to meet him at Kew, where his education was being
continued and strict guard kept upon his conduct. During 1780 he urged his father to give him
a commission in the army, but, dreading the liberty which would result from such a step, the
king refused the request. It was, however, considered advisable to provide the prince with
a small separate establishment in a wing of Buckingham House; this arrangement taking place
On the 1st of January, 1781.

Being now his own master, the prince became a man about town, attended routs, masquerades,
horse-races, identified himself with politicians detested by the king, set up an establishment
for Mrs. Robinson, gambled, drank, and in a single year spent ten thousand pounds on clothes.
He now openly appeared in the company of Perdita at places of public resort and amusement;
she, magnificently dressed, driving a splendid equipage which had cost him nine hundred guineas,
and surrounded by his friends. We read that: "To-day she was a paysanne, with her straw hat
tied at the back of her head. Yesterday she perhaps had been the dressed belle of Hyde Park,
trimmed, powdered, patched, painted to the utmost power of rouge and white lead; to-morrow
she would be the cravated Amazon of the riding-house; but, be she what she might, the hats
of the fashionable promenaders swept the ground as she passed."

This life lasted about two years, when, just as the prince, on his coming of age, was about
to take possession of Carlton House, to receive L30,000 from the nation toward paying his debts,
and an annuity of L63,000, he absented himself from Perdita, leaving her in ignorance of the
cause of his change, which was none other than an interest in Mrs. Grace Dalrymple Elliott.

In the early fervour of his fancy, he had assured Mrs. Robinson his love would remain unchangeable
till death, and that he would prove unalterable to his Perdita through life. Moreover, his
generosity being heated by passion, he gave her a bond promising to pay her L20,000 on his
coming of age.

On the prince separating from her, Perdita found herself some L7,000 in debt to tradespeople,
who became clamorous for their money, whereon she wrote to her royal lover, who paid her no
heed; but presently she was visited by his friend, Charles James Fox, when she agreed to give
up her bond in consideration of receiving an annuity of L500 a year.

She would now gladly have gone back to the stage, but that she feared the hostility of public
opinion. Shortly after, she went to Paris, and on her return to England devoted herself to
literature. It was about this time she entered into relations with Colonel--afterward Sir Banastre--Tarleton,
who was born in the same year as herself, and had served in the American army from 1776 until
the surrender of Yorktown, on which he returned to England. For many years he sat in Parliament
as the representative of Liverpool, his native town; and in 1817 he gained the grade of lieutenant-general,
and was created a baronet. His friendship with Mrs. Robinson lasted some sixteen years.

It was whilst undertaking a journey on his behalf, at a time when he was in pecuniary difficulties,
that she contracted the illness that resulted in her losing the active use of her lower limbs.
This did not prevent her from working, and she poured out novels, poems, essays on the condition
of women, and plays. A communication written by her to John Taylor, the proprietor of the Sun
newspaper and author of various epilogues, prologues, songs, etc., gives a view of her life.
This letter, now published for the first time, is contained in the famous Morrison collection
of autograph letters, and is dated the 5th of October, 1794.

"I was really happy to receive your letter. Your silence gave me no small degree of uneasiness,
and I began to think some demon had broken the links of that chain which I trust has united
us in friendship for ever. Life is such a scene of trouble and disappointment that the sensible
mind can ill endure the loss of any consolation that renders it supportable. How, then, can
it be possible that we should resign, without a severe pang, the first of all human blessings,
the friend we love? Never give me reason again, I conjure you, to suppose you have wholly forgot
me.

"Now I will impart to you a secret, which must not be revealed. I think that before the 10th
of December next I shall quit England for ever. My dear and valuable brother, who is now in
Lancashire, wishes to persuade me, and the unkindness of the world tends not a little to forward
his hopes. I have no relations in England except my darling girl, and, I fear, few friends.
Yet, my dear Juan, I shall feel a very severe struggle in quitting those paths of fancy I have
been childish enough to admire,--false prospects. They have led me into the vain expectation
that fame would attend my labours, and my country be my pride. How have I been treated? I need
only refer you to the critiques of last month, and you will acquit me of unreasonable instability.
When I leave England,--adieu to the muse for ever,--I will never publish another line while
I exist, and even those manuscripts now finished I will destroy.

"Perhaps this will be no loss to the world, yet I may regret the many fruitless hours I have
employed to furnish occasions for malevolence and persecution.

"In every walk of life I have been equally unfortunate, but here shall end my complaints.

"I shall return to St. James's Place for a few days this month to meet my brother, who then
goes to York for a very short time, and after his return (the end of November), I depart. This
must be secret, for to my other misfortunes pecuniary derangement is not the least. Let common
sense judge how I can subsist upon L500 a year, when my carriage (a necessary expense) alone
costs me L200. My mental labours have failed through the dishonest conduct of my publishers.
My works have sold handsomely, but the profits have been theirs.

"Have I not reason to be disgusted when I see him to whom I ought to look for better fortune
lavishing favours on unworthy objects, gratifying the avarice of ignorance and dulness, while
I, who sacrificed reputation, an advantageous profession, friends, patronage, the brilliant
hours of youth, and the conscious delight of correct conduct, am condemned to the scanty pittance
bestowed on every indifferent page who holds up his ermined train of ceremony?

"You will say, 'Why trouble me with all this?' I answer, 'Because when I am at peace, you may
be in possession of my real sentiments and defend my cause when I shall not have the power
of doing it.'

"My comedy has been long in the hands of a manager, but whether it will ever be brought forward
time must decide. You know, my dear friend, what sort of authors have lately been patronised
by managers; their pieces ushered to public view, with all the advantages of splendour; yet
I am obliged to wait two long years without a single hope that a trial would be granted. Oh,
I am tired of the world and all its mortifications. I promise you this shall close my chapters
of complaints. Keep them, and remember how ill I have been treated."

Eight days later she wrote to the same friend:

"In wretched spirits I wrote you last week a most melancholy letter. Your kind answer consoled
me. The balsam of pure and disinterested friendship never fails to cure the mind's sickness,
particularly when it proceeds from disgust at the ingratitude of the world."

The play to which she referred was probably that mentioned in the sequel to her memoirs, which
was unhappily a failure. It is notable that the principal character in the farce was played
by Mrs. Jordan, who was later to become the victim of a royal prince, who left her to die in
poverty and exile.

The letter of another great actress, Sarah Siddons, written to John Taylor, shows kindness
and compassion toward Perdita.

"I am very much obliged to Mrs. Robinson," says Mrs. Siddons, "for her polite attention in
sending me her poems. Pray tell her so with my compliments. I hope the poor, charming woman
has quite recovered from her fall. If she is half as amiable as her writings, I shall long
for the possibility of being acquainted with her. I say the possibility, because one's whole
life is one continual sacrifice of inclinations, which to indulge, however laudable or innocent,
would draw down the malice and reproach of those prudent people who never do ill, 'but feed
and sleep and do observances to the stale ritual of quaint ceremony.' The charming and beautiful
Mrs. Robinson: I pity her from the bottom of my soul."

Almost to the last she retained her beauty, and delighted in receiving her friends and learning
from them news of the world in which she could no longer move. Reclining on her sofa in the
little drawing-room of her house in St. James's Place, she was the centre of a circle which
comprised many of those who had surrounded her in the days of her brilliancy, amongst them
being the Prince of Wales and his brother the Duke of York.

Possibly, for the former, memory lent her a charm which years had not utterly failed to dispel.

J. Fitzgerald Molloy.

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

The Attempted Abduction

Lady Lyttleton

William Brereton in The Character Of Douglas

The First Meeting of Mrs. Robinson and the Prince of Wales

Mrs. Robinson

The Prince of Wales

Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire

MRS. MARY ROBINSON

At the period when the ancient city of Bristol was besieged by Fairfax's army, the troops being
stationed on a rising ground in the vicinity of the suburbs, a great part of the venerable
minster was destroyed by the cannonading before Prince Rupert surrendered to the enemy; and
the beautiful Gothic structure, which at this moment fills the contemplative mind with melancholy
awe, was reduced to but little more than one-half of the original fabric. Adjoining to the
consecrated hill, whose antique tower resists the ravages of time, once stood a monastery of
monks of the order of St. Augustine. This building formed a part of the spacious boundaries
which fell before the attacks of the enemy, and became a part of the ruin, which never was
repaired or re-raised to its former Gothic splendours.

On this spot was built a private house, partly of simple, and partly of modern architecture.
The front faced a small garden, the gates of which opened to the Minster Green (now called
the College Green); the west side was bounded by the cathedral, and the back was supported
by the ancient cloisters of St. Augustine's monastery. A spot more calculated to inspire the
soul with mournful meditation can scarcely be found amidst the monuments of antiquity.

In this venerable mansion there was one chamber whose dismal and singular constructure left
no doubt of its having been a part of the original monastery. It was supported by the mouldering
arches of the cloisters, dark, Gothic, and opening on the minster sanctuary, not only by casement
windows that shed a dim midday gloom, but by a narrow winding staircase, at the foot of which
an iron-spiked door led to the long gloomy path of cloistered solitude. This place remained
in the situation in which I describe it in the year 1776, and probably may, in a more ruined
state, continue so to this hour.

In this awe-inspiring habitation, which I shall henceforth denominate the Minster House, during
a tempestuous night, on the 27th of November, 1758, I first opened my eyes to this world of
duplicity and sorrow. I have often heard my mother say that a mare stormy hour she never remembered.
The wind whistled round the dark pinnacles of the minster tower, and the rain beat in torrents
against the casements of her chamber. Through life the tempest has followed my footsteps, and
I have in vain looked for a short interval of repose from the perseverance of sorrow.

In the male line I am descended from a respectable family in Ireland, the original name of
which was MacDermott. From an Irish estate, my great-grandfather changed it to that of Darby.
My father, who was born in America, was a man of strong mind, high spirit, and great personal
intrepidity. Many anecdotes, well authenticated, and which, being irrefragable, are recorded
as just tributes to his fame and memory, shall, in the course of these memoirs, confirm this
assertion.

My mother was the grandchild of Catherine Seys, one of the daughters and co-heiresses of Richard
Sey's, Esq., of Boverton Castle, in Glamorganshire. The sister of my great-grandmother, named
Anne, married Peter, Lord King, who was nephew, in the female line, to the learned and truly
illustrious John Locke--a name that has acquired celebrity which admits of no augmented panegyric.

Catherine Seys was a woman of great piety and virtue--a character which she transferred to
her daughter, and which has also been acknowledged as justly due to her sister, Lady King.[1]
She quitted this life when my grandmother was yet a child, leaving an only daughter, whose
father also died while she was in her infancy. By this privation of paternal care my grandmother
became the eleve of her mother's father, and passed the early part of her life at the family
castle in Glamorganshire. From this period till the marriage of my mother, I can give but a
brief account. All I know is, that my grandmother, though wedded unhappily, to the latest period
of her existence was a woman of amiable and simple manners, unaffected piety, and exemplary
virtue. I remember her well; and I speak not only from report, but from my own knowledge. She
died in the year 1780.

My grandmother Elizabeth, whom I may, without the vanity of consanguinity, term a truly good
woman, in the early part of her life devoted much of her time to botanic study. She frequently
passed many successive months with Lady Tynt, of Haswell, in Somersetshire, who was her godmother,
and who was the Lady Bountiful of the surrounding villages. Animated by so distinguished an
example, the young Elizabeth, who was remarkably handsome,[2] took particular delight in visiting
the old, the indigent, and the infirm, resident within many miles of Haswell, and in preparing
such medicines as were useful to the maladies of the peasantry. She was the village doctress,
and, with her worthy godmother, seldom passed a day without exemplifying the benevolence of
her nature.

My mother was born at Bridgwater, in Somersetshire, in the house near the bridge, which is
now occupied by Jonathan Chub, Esq., a relation of my beloved and lamented parent, and a gentleman
who, to acknowledged worth and a powerful understanding, adds a superior claim to attention
by all the acquirements of a scholar and a philosopher.

My mother, who never was what may be called a handsome woman, had nevertheless, in her youth,
a peculiarly neat figure, and a vivacity of manner which obtained her many suitors. Among others,
a young gentleman of good family, of the name of Storr, paid his addresses. My father was the
object of my mother's choice, though her relations rather wished her to form a matrimonial
alliance with Mr. S. The conflict between affection and duty was at length decided in favour
of my father, and the rejected lover set out in despair for Bristol. From thence, in a few
days after his arrival, he took his passage in a merchantman for a distant part of the globe;
and from that hour no intelligence ever arrived of his fate or fortune. I have often heard
my mother speak of this gentleman with regret and sorrow.

My mother was between twenty and thirty years of age at the period of her marriage. The ceremony
was performed at Dunyatt, in the county of Somerset. My father was shortly after settled at
Bristol, and during the second year after their union a son was born to bless and honour them.[3]

Three years after my mother gave birth to a daughter, named Elizabeth, who died of the smallpox
at the age of two years and ten months. In the second winter following this event, which deeply
afflicted the most affectionate of parents, I was born. She had afterward two sons: William,
who died at the age of six years; and George, who is now a respectable merchant at Leghorn,
in Tuscany.

All the offspring of my parents were, in their infancy, uncommonly handsome, excepting myself.
The boys were fair and lusty, with auburn hair, light blue eyes, and countenances peculiarly
animated and lovely, I was swarthy; my eyes were singularly large in proportion to my face,
which was small and round, exhibiting features peculiarly marked with the most pensive and
melancholy cast.

The great difference betwixt my brothers and myself, in point of personal beauty, tended much
to endear me to my parents, particularly to my father, whom I strongly resembled. The early
propensities of my life were tinctured with romantic and singular characteristics; some of
which I shall here mention, as proofs that the mind is never to be diverted from its original
bent, and that every event of my life has more or less been marked by the progressive evils
of a too acute sensibility.

The nursery in which I passed my hours of infancy was so near the great aisle of the minster
that the organ, which reechoed its deep tones, accompanied by the chanting of the choristers,
was distinctly heard both at morning and evening service. I remember with what pleasure I used
to listen, and how much I was delighted whenever I was permitted to sit on the winding steps
which led from the aisle to the cloisters. I can at this moment recall to memory the sensations
I then experienced--the tones that seemed to thrill through my heart, the longing which I felt
to unite my feeble voice to the full anthem, and the awful though sublime impression which
the church service never failed to make upon my feelings. While my brothers were playing on
the green before the minster, the servant who attended us has often, by my earnest entreaties,
suffered me to remain beneath the great eagle which stood in the centre of the aisle, to support
the book from which the clergyman read the lessons of the day; and nothing could keep me away,
even in the coldest seasons, but the stern looks of an old man, whom I named Black John from
the colour of his beard and complexion, and whose occupations within the sacred precincts were
those of a bell-ringer and sexton.

As soon as I had learned to read, my great delight was that of learning epitaphs and monumental
inscriptions. A story of melancholy import never failed to excite my attention; and before
I was seven years old I could correctly repeat Pope's "Lines to the Memory of an Unfortunate
Lady;" Mason's "Elegy on the Death of the Beautiful Countess of Coventry," and many smaller
poems on similar subjects. I had then been attended two years by various masters. Mr. Edmund
Broadrip taught me music, my father having presented me with one of Kirkman's finest harpsichords,
as an incitement to emulation. Even there my natural bent of mind evinced itself. The only
melody which pleased me was that of the mournful and touching kind. Two of my earliest favourites
were the celebrated ballad by Gay, beginning, "'Twas when the sea was roaring," and the simple
pathetic stanzas of "The Heavy Hours," by the poet Lord Lyttelton. These, though nature had
given me but little voice, I could at seven years of age sing so pathetically that my mother,
to the latest hour of her life,' never could bear to hear the latter of them repeated. They
reminded her of sorrows in which I have since painfully learned to sympathise.

The early hours of boarding-school study I passed under the tuition of the Misses More, sisters
to the lady of that name whose talents have been so often celebrated.[4] The education of their
young pupils was undertaken by the five sisters. "In my mind's eye," I see them now before
me; while every circumstance of those early days is minutely and indelibly impressed upon my
memory.

I remember the first time I ever was present at a dramatic representation: it was the benefit
of that great actor[5] who was proceeding rapidly toward the highest paths of fame, when death,
dropped the oblivious curtain, and closed the scene for ever. The part which he performed was
King Lear; his wife, afterward Mrs. Fisher, played Cordelia, but not with sufficient eclat
to render the profession an object for her future exertions. The whole school attended, Mr.
Powel's two daughters being then pupils of the Misses More. Mrs. John Kemble, then Miss P.
Hopkins, was also one of my schoolfellows, as was the daughter of Mrs. Palmer, formerly Miss
Pritchard, and afterward Mrs. Lloyd. I mention these circumstances merely to prove that memory
does not deceive me.

In my early days my father was prosperous, and my mother was the happiest of wives. She adored
her children; she devoted her thoughts and divided her affections between them and the tenderest
of husbands. Their spirits now, I trust, are in happier regions, blest, and reunited for ever.

If there could be found a fault in the conduct of my mother toward her children, it was that
of a too unlimited indulgence, a too tender care, which but little served to arm their breast
against the perpetual arrows of mortal vicissitude. My father's commercial concerns were crowned
with prosperity. His house was opened by hospitality, and his generosity was only equalled
by the liberality of fortune: every day augmented his successes; every hour seemed to increase
his domestic felicity, till I attained my ninth year, when a change took place as sudden as
it was unfortunate, at a moment when every luxury, every happiness, not only brightened the
present, but gave promise of future felicity. A scheme was suggested to my father, as wild
and romantic as it was perilous to hazard, which was no less than that of establishing a whale
fishery on the coast of Labrador, and of civilising the Esquimaux Indians, in order to employ
them in the extensive undertaking. During two years this eccentric plan occupied his thoughts
by day, his dreams by night: all the smiles of prosperity could not tranquillise the restless
spirit, and while he anticipated an acquirement of fame, he little considered the perils that
would attend his fortune.

My mother (who, content with affluence and happy in beholding the prosperity of her children,
trembled at the fear of endangering either), in vain endeavoured to dissuade my father from
putting his favourite scheme in practice. In the early part of his youth he had been accustomed
to a sea life, and, being born an American, his restless spirit was ever busied in plans for
the increase of wealth and honour to his native country, whose fame and interest were then
united to those of Britain. After many dreams of success and many conflicts betwixt prudence
and ambition, he resolved on putting his scheme in practice; the potent witchery possessed
his brain, and all the persuasive powers of reason shrunk before its magic.

Full of the important business, my misguided parent repaired to the metropolis, and on his
arrival laid the plan before the late Earl of Hilsborough, Sir Hugh Palliser, the late Earl
of Bristol, Lord Chatham (father to the present Mr. William Pitt), the chancellor Lord Northington,
who was my godfather, and several other equally distinguished personages; who all not only
approved the plan, but commended the laudable and public spirit which induced my father to
suggest it. The prospect appeared full of promise, and the Labrador whale fishery was expected
to be equally productive with that of Greenland. My parent's commercial connections were of
the highest respectability, while his own name for worth and integrity gave a powerful sanction
to the eccentric undertaking.

In order to facilitate this plan, my father deemed it absolutely necessary to reside at least
two years in America. My mother, who felt an invincible antipathy to the sea, heard his determination
with grief and horror. All the persuasive powers of affection failed to detain him; all the
pleadings of reason, prudence, a fond wife, and an infant family, proved ineffectual. My father
was determined on departing, and my mother's unconquerable timidity prevented her being the
companion of his voyage. From this epocha I date the sorrows of my family.

He sailed for America. His eldest son, John, was previously placed in a mercantile house at
Leghorn. My younger brothers and myself remained with my mother at Bristol. Two years was the
limited time of his absence, and, on his departure, the sorrow of my parents was reciprocal.
My mother's heart was almost bursting with anguish; but even death would to her have been preferable
to the horrors of crossing a tempestuous ocean and quitting her children, my father having
resolved on leaving my brothers and myself in England for education.

Still the comforts, and even the luxuries of life distinguished our habitation. The tenderness
of my mother's affection made her lavish of every elegance; and the darlings of her bosom were
dressed, waited on, watched, and indulged with a degree of fondness bordering on folly. My
clothes were sent for from London; my fancy was indulged to the extent of its caprices; I was
flattered and praised into a belief that I was a being of superior order. To sing, to play
a lesson on the harpsichord, to recite an elegy, and to make doggerel verses, made the extent
of my occupations, while my person improved, and my mother's indulgence was almost unexampled.

My father, several years before his departure for America, had removed from the Minster House,
and resided in one larger and more convenient for his increased family. This habitation was
elegantly arranged; all the luxuries of plate, silk furniture, foreign wines, etc., evinced
his knowledge of what was worth enjoying, and displayed that warm hospitality which is often
the characteristic of a British merchant. This disposition for the good things of the world
influenced even the disposal of his children's comforts. The bed in which I slept was of the
richest crimson damask; the dresses which we wore were of the finest cambric; during the summer
months we were sent to Clifton Hill for the advantages of a purer air; and I never was permitted
to board at school, or to pass a night of separation from the fondest of mothers.

Many months elapsed, and my mother continued to receive the kindest letters from that husband
whose rash scheme filled her bosom with regret and apprehension. At length the intervals became
more frequent and protracted. The professions of regard, no longer flowing from the heart,
assumed a laboured style, and seemed rather the efforts of honourable feeling than the involuntary
language of confidential affection. My mother felt the change, and her affliction was infinite.

At length a total silence of several months awoke her mind to the sorrows of neglect, the torture
of compunction; she now lamented the timidity which had divided her from a husband's bosom,
the natural fondness which had bound her to her children; for while her heart bled with sorrow
and palpitated with apprehension, the dreadful secret was unfolded, and the cause of my father's
silence was discovered to be a new attachment--a mistress, whose resisting nerves could brave
the stormy ocean, and who had consented to remain two years with him in the frozen wilds of
America.

This intelligence nearly annihilated my mother, whose mind, though not strongly organised,
was tenderly susceptible. She resigned herself to grief. I was then at an age to feel and to
participate in her sorrows. I often wept to see her weep; I tried all my little skill to soothe
her, but in vain; the first shock was followed by calamities of a different nature. The scheme
in which my father had embarked his fortune failed, the Indians rose in a body, burnt his settlement,
murdered many of his people, and turned the produce of their toil adrift on the wide and merciless
ocean. The noble patrons of his plan deceived him in their assurances of marine protection,
and the island of promise presented a scene of barbarous desolation. This misfortune was rapidly
followed by other commercial losses; and to complete the vexations which pressed heavily on
my mother, her rash husband gave a bill of sale of his whole property, by the authority of
which we were obliged to quit our home, and to endure those accumulated vicissitudes for which
there appeared no remedy.

It was at this period of trial that my mother was enabled to prove, by that unerring touchstone,
adversity, who were her real and disinterested friends. Many, with affected commiseration,
dropped a tear--or rather seemed to drop one--on the disappointments of our family; while others,
with a malignant triumph, condemned the expensive style in which my father had reared his children,
the studied elegance which had characterised my mother's dress and habitation, and the hospitality,
which was now marked by the ungrateful epithet of prodigal luxuriance, but which had evinced
the open liberality of my father's heart.

At this period my brother William died. He was only six years of age, but a promising and most
lovely infant. His sudden death, in consequence of the measles, nearly deprived my mother of
her senses. She was deeply affected; but she found, after a period of time, that consolation
which, springing from the bosom of an amiable friend, doubly solaced her afflictions. This
female was one of the most estimable of her sex; she had been the widow of Sir Charles Erskine,
and was then the wife of a respectable medical man who resided at Bristol.

In the society of Lady Erskine my mother gradually recovered her serenity of mind, or rather
found it soften into a religious resignation. But the event of her domestic loss by death was
less painful than that which she felt in the alienation of my father's affections. She frequently
heard that he resided in America with his mistress, till, at the expiration of another year,
she received a summons to meet him in London.

Language would but feebly describe the varying emotions which struggled in her bosom. At this
interesting era she was preparing to encounter the freezing scorn, or the contrite glances,
of either an estranged or a repentant husband; in either case her situation was replete with
anticipated chagrin, for she loved him too tenderly not to participate even in the anguish
of his compunction. His letter, which was coldly civil, requested particularly that the children
might be the companions of her journey. We departed for the metropolis.

I was not then quite ten years old, though so tall and formed in my person that I might have
passed for twelve or thirteen. My brother George was a few years younger. On our arrival in
London we repaired to my father's lodgings in Spring Gardens. He received us, after three years'
absence, with a mixture of pain and pleasure; he embraced us with tears, and his voice was
scarcely articulate. My mother's agitation was indescribable; she received a cold embrace at
their meeting--it was the last she ever received from her alienated husband.

As soon as the first conflicts seemed to subside, my father informed my mother that he was
determined to place my brother and myself at a school in the vicinity of London; that he purposed
very shortly returning to America, and that he would readily pay for my mother's board in any
private and respectable family. This information seemed like a death-blow to their domestic
hopes. A freezing, formal, premeditated separation from a wife who was guiltless of any crime,
who was as innocent as an angel, seemed the very extent of decided misery. It was in vain that
my mother essayed to change his resolution, and influence his heart in pronouncing a milder
judgment: my father was held by a fatal fascination; he was the slave of a young and artful
woman, who had availed herself of his American solitude, to undermine his affections for his
wife and the felicity of his family.

This deviation from domestic faith was the only dark shade that marked my father's character.
He possessed a soul brave, liberal, enlightened, and ingenuous. He felt the impropriety of
his conduct. Yet, though his mind was strongly organised, though his understanding was capacious,
and his sense of honour delicate even to fastidiousness, he was still the dupe of his passions,
the victim of unfortunate attachment.

Within a few days of our arrival in London we were placed for education in a school at Chelsea.
I continued more than twelve months under the care of Mrs. Lorrington, during which period
my mother boarded in a clergyman's family at Chelsea. I applied rigidly to study, and acquired
a taste for books, which has never, from that time, deserted me. Mrs. Lorrington frequently
read to me after school hours, and I to her. I sometimes indulged my fancy in writing verses,
or composing rebuses, and my governess never failed to applaud the juvenile compositions I
presented to her. Some of them, which I preserved and printed in a small volume shortly after
my marriage, were written when I was between twelve and thirteen years of age; but as love
was the theme of my poetical fantasies, I never showed them to my mother till I was about to
publish them.

It was my custom, every Sunday evening, to drink tea with my mother. During one of those visits
a captain in the British navy, a friend of my father's, became so partial to my person and
manners that a proposal of marriage shortly after followed. My mother was astonished when she
heard it, and, as soon as she recovered from her surprise, inquired of my suitor how old he
thought me; his reply was, "About sixteen." My mother smiled, and informed him that I was then
not quite thirteen. He appeared to be skeptical on the subject, till he was again assured of
the fact, when he took his leave with evident chagrin, but not without expressing his hopes
that, on his return to England,--for he was going on a two years' expedition,--I should be
still disengaged. His ship foundered at sea a few months after, and this amiable gallant officer
perished. These events conspired to break up the establishment, and I was shortly after removed
to a boarding-school at Battersea.

The mistress of this seminary, Mrs. Leigh, was a lively, sensible, and accomplished woman;
her daughter was only a few years older than myself, and extremely amiable as well as lovely.
Here I might have been happy, but my father's remissness in sending pecuniary supplies, and
my mother's dread of pecuniary inconvenience, induced her to remove me; my brother, nevertheless,
still remained under the care of the Reverend Mr. Gore, at Chelsea.

