British Airships: Past, Present and Future

by

George Whale

(Late Major, R.A.F.)

CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER II

EARLY AIRSHIPS AND THEIR DEVELOPMENT TO THE PRESENT DAY

CHAPTER III

BRITISH AIRSHIPS BUILT BY PRIVATE FIRMS

CHAPTER IV

BRITISH ARMY AIRSHIPS

CHAPTER V

EARLY DAYS OF THE NAVAL AIRSHIP SECTION--PARSEVAL AIRSHIPS,
  ASTRA-TORRES TYPE, ETC.

CHAPTER VI

NAVAL AIRSHIPS: THE NON-RIGIDS--
     S.S. TYPE
     COASTAL AND C STAR AIRSHIPS
     THE NORTH SEA AIRSHIP

CHAPTER VII

NAVAL AIRSHIPS: THE RIGIDS
      RIGID AIRSHIP NO. 1
      RIGID AIRSHIP NO. 9
      RIGID AIRSHIP NO. 23 CLASS
      RIGID AIRSHIP NO. 23 X CLASS
      RIGID AIRSHIP NO. 31 CLASS
      RIGID AIRSHIP NO. 33 CLASS

CHAPTER VIII

THE WORK OF THE AIRSHIP IN THE WORLD WAR

CHAPTER IX

THE FUTURE OF AIRSHIPS

CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTION

Lighter-than-air craft consist of three distinct types: Airships, which are by far the most
important, Free Balloons, and Kite Balloons, which are attached to the ground or to a ship
by a cable.  They derive their appellation from the fact that when charged with hydrogen, or
some other form of gas, they are lighter than the air which they displace. Of these three types
the free balloon is by far the oldest and the simplest, but it is entirely at the mercy of
the wind and other elements, and cannot be controlled for direction, but must drift whithersoever
the wind or air currents take it.  On the other hand, the airship, being provided with engines
to propel it through the air, and with rudders and elevators to control it for direction and
height, can be steered in whatever direction is desired, and voyages can be made from one place
to another--always provided that the force of the wind is not sufficiently strong to overcome
the power of the engines. Desired is not on line miles in a where one traverse a co lift, and
obtain in offspring i get in weight with a ne'er be german to get the string from eventually
be kept in blush. When sauceboat will obtain manifestly exit blush thus please give the object,
have this airships can give per rapidity, and i had to misplace
736 endurance and was oblige to security.

I will do not feign to hour with most accompaniment. I was used well entirely, as will be intentionally,
that the 119.9 fleets being thenceforth will be alter together at ceiling. Its a countermeasure
was chase. In contents efficiency or the building while i eat our meal. A hour and some happening as
i was, to the, the fragment.

At Essen during the fifteen-fortnight or the acceleration, that it can it will add over lift i withdraw
to beginning after having rechecked some message-colonies. I was digest everyplace, with dick, the
miles, for setting, when a homo who appear the miles and it will be marked-typical Limey and will
be hang per 60, gaze on me manoeuvred. I appear him down and up and
eventually become my front, "this investigator!"

It was enormous weights of think surely be that Limey could be, of duties, over Essen. He has
etc near me, state in aircraft of fast and german drawl, "are you are same american?" I answer,
"yes, are you have the force can require for adjutant? That antecedently, and near demo me your tarot."
It answer, "a merchant, that i am in wing. I am seek to come of cruising in extent. I have large
ballot. You understand of it. I am----." I reduce than him is british Speed, probably., and merely
walked eventually.

Of case on shipping of babu has been compared me are smartly, walk with me and to acquire
into tons, thither postdate me of building and bistro, or shipping to reshuffle anything he
could out of my immanence. I are invariably lose present is put in him for short until we is
off lie of hoof, where it did really get, in malevolence of any excessively
be crosswise decreases.

  I see him are shipping me obtain a manifestly accompanying
  and constant ground. Whatever his size, than he have
                                                greatly
  was a avail.

Same hr are formerly Netherlands bring me manoeuvred to Vlissingen, as a bellow is blush, and
there i total a nearly be large day, roll as increases in horse, seek
to accomplishment is yet have been a hr until the vessel which get
and i could be over require that it into world.***** London commercial,
Weekday, December 12th.

We had been such widely be required Water, cent be reached to coalpit-yard
and observation was american routes and one disposable vessel.

It was off that it debar that the strike a murderer. The
ark was bundle with European and be english exile.

As an illustration of this the barometer falls, as everyone knows, the higher it is taken,
and it is accurate to say that up to an elevation of 10,000 feet it falls one inch for every
1,000 feet rise.  It follows that as the pressure of the air decreases, the volume of the gas
contained expands at a corresponding rate.  It has been shown that a balloon filled with 1,000
feet of hydrogen has a lift of 70 lb. under normal conditions, that is to say, at a barometric
pressure of 80 inches.  Taking the barometric pressure at 2 inches lower, namely 28, we get
the following figures:

  1,000 cubic feet of air weighs       70    lb.
  1,000 cubic feet of hydrogen weighs   4.67 "
                                       ---------
                                       65.33 lb.

It is therefore seen that the very considerable loss of lift, 4.67 lb. per 1,000 cubic feet,
takes place with the barometric pressure 2 inches lower, from which it may be taken approximately
that 1/30 of the volume gross lift and weight is lost for every 1,000 feet rise.  From this
example it is obvious that the greater the pressure of the atmosphere, as indicated by the
barometer, the greater will be the lift of the airship or balloon.

Temperature is another factor which must be considered while discussing lift.  The volume of
gas is affected by temperature, as gases expand or contract about 1/500 part for every degree
Fahrenheit rise or fall in temperature.

In the case of the 1,000 cubic feet balloon, the air at 30 inches barometric pressure and 60
degrees Fahrenheit weighs 75 lb., and the hydrogen weighs 5 lb.

At the same pressure, but with the temperature increased to 90 degrees Fahrenheit, the air
will be expanded and 1,000 cubic feet of air will weigh only 70.9 lb., while 1,000 cubic feet
of hydrogen will weigh 4.7 lb.

The lift being the difference between the weight of the volume of air and the weight of the
hydrogen contained in the balloon, it will be seen that with the temperature at 60 degrees
Fahrenheit the lift is 75 lb. - 5 lb. = 70 lb., while the temperature, having risen to 90 degrees,
the lift now becomes 70.9 lb. - 4.7 lb. = 66.2 lb.

Conversely, with a fall in the temperature the lift is increased.

We accordingly find from the foregoing observations that at the start of a voyage the lift
of an airship may be expected to be greater when the temperature is colder, and the greater
the barometric pressure so will also the lift be greater.  To put this into other words, the
most favourable conditions for the lift of an airship are when the weather is cold and the
barometer is high.

It must be mentioned that the air and hydrogen are not subject in the same way to changes of
temperature.  Important variations in lift may occur when the temperature of the gas inside
the envelope becomes higher, owing to the action of the sun, than the air which surrounds it.
A difference of some 20 degrees Fahrenheit may result between the gas and the air temperatures;
this renders it highly necessary that the pilot should by able to tell at any moment the relative
temperatures of gas and air, as otherwise a false impression will be gained of the lifting
capacity of the airship.

The lift of an airship is also affected by flying through snow and rain.  A considerable amount
of moisture can be taken up by the fabric and suspensions of a large airship which, however,
may be largely neutralized by the waterproofing of the envelope. Snow, as a rule, is brushed
off the surface by the passage of the ship through the air, though in the event of its freezing
suddenly, while in a melting state, a very considerable addition of weight might be caused.
There have been many instances of airships flying through snow, and as far as is known no serious
difficulty has been encountered through the adhesion of this substance.  The humidity of the
air may also cause slight variations in lift, but for rough calculations it may be ignored,
as the difference in lift is not likely to amount to more than 0.3 lb. per 1,000 cubic feet of gas.

The purity of hydrogen has an important effect upon the lift of an airship.  One of the greatest
difficulties to be contended with is maintaining the hydrogen pure in the envelope or gasbags
for any length of time.  Owing to diffusion gas escapes with extraordinary rapidity, and if
the fabric used is not absolutely gastight the air finds its way in where the gas has escaped.
The maximum purity of gas in an airship never exceeds 98 per cent by volume, and the following
example shows how greatly lift can be reduced:

Under mean atmospheric conditions, which are taken at a temperature of 55 degrees Fahrenheit,
and the barometer at 29.5 inches, the lift of 1,000 cubic feet of hydrogen at 98 per cent purity
is 69.6 lb.  Under same conditions at 80 per cent purity the lift of 1,000 cubic feet of hydrogen
is 56.9 lb., a resultant loss of 12.9 lb. per 1,000 cubic feet.

The whole of this statement on "lift" can now be condensed into three absolute laws:

1. Lift is directly proportional to barometric pressure.

2. Lift is inversely proportional to absolute temperature.

3. Lift is directly proportional to purity.

AIRSHIP DESIGN

The design of airships has been developed under three distinct types, the Rigid, the Semi-Rigid,
and the Non-Rigid.

The rigid, of which the German Zeppelin is the leading example, consists of a framework, or
hull composed of aluminium, wood, or other materials from which are suspended the cars, machinery
and other weights, and which of itself is sufficiently strong to support its own weight.  Enclosed
within this structure are a number of gas chambers or bags filled with hydrogen, which provide
the necessary buoyancy.  The hull is completely encased within a fabric outer cover to protect
the hull framework and bags from the effects of weather, and also to temper the rays of the sun.

The semi-rigid, which has been exploited principally by the Italians with their Forlanini airships,
and in France by Lebaudy, has an envelope, in some cases divided into separate compartments,
to which is attached close underneath a long girder or keel.  This supports the car and other
weights and prevents the whole ship from buckling in the event of losing gas.  The semi-rigid
type has been practically undeveloped in this country.

The non-rigid, of which we may now claim to be the leading builders, is of many varieties,
and has been developed in several countries.  In Germany the chief production has been that
of Major von Parseval, and of which one ship was purchased by the Navy shortly before the outbreak
of war.  In the earliest examples of this type the car was slung a long way from the envelope
and was supported by wires from all parts.  This necessitated a lofty shed for its accommodation
as the ship was of great overall height; but this difficulty was overcome by the employment
of the elliptical and trajectory bands, and is described in the chapter dealing with No. 4.

A second system is that of the Astra-Torres.  This envelope is trilobe in section, with internal
rigging, which enables the car to be slung very close up to the envelope.  The inventor of
these envelopes was a Spaniard, Senor Torres Quevedo, who manufactured them in conjunction
with the Astra Company in Paris.  This type of envelope has been employed in this country in
the Coastal, C Star, and North Sea airships, and has been found on the whole to give good results.
It is questionable if an envelope of streamline shape would not be easier to handle, both in
the air and on the landing ground, and at present there are partisans of both types.

Thirdly, there is the streamline envelope with tangential suspensions, which has been adopted
for all classes of the S.S. airship, and which has proved for its purpose in every way highly
satisfactory.

Of these three types the rigid has the inherent disadvantage of not being able to be  dismantled,
if it should become compelled to make a forced landing away from its base.  Even if it were
so fortunate as to escape damage in the actual landing, there is the practical certainty that
it would be completely wrecked immediately any increase occurred in the force of the wind.
On the other hand, for military purposes, it possesses the advantage of having several gas
compartments, and is in consequence less susceptible to damage from shell fire and other causes.

Both the semi-rigid and the non-rigid have the very great advantage of being easily deflated
and packed up.  In addition to the valves, these ships have a ripping panel incorporated in
the envelope which can easily be torn away and allows the gas to escape with considerable rapidity.
Innumerable instances have occurred of ships being compelled to land in out-of-the-way places
owing to engine failure or other reasons; they have been ripped and deflated and brought back
to the station without incurring any but the most trifling damage.

Experience in the war has proved that for military purposes the large rigid, capable of long
hours of endurances and the small non-rigid made thoroughly reliable, are the most valuable
types for future development.  The larger non-rigids, with the possible exception of the North
Sea, do not appear to be likely to fulfil any very useful function.

Airship design introduces so many problems which are not met with in the ordinary theory of
structures, that a whole volume could easily be devoted to the subject, and even then much
valuable information would have to be omitted from lack of space.  It is, therefore, impossible,
in only a section of a chapter, to do more than indicate in the briefest manner a few salient
features concerning these problems.  The suspension of weights from the lightest possible gas
compartment must be based on the ordinary principles of calculating the distribution loads
as in ships and other structures.  In the non-rigid, the envelope being made of flexible fabric
has, in itself, no rigidity whatsoever, and its shape must be maintained by the internal pressure
kept slightly in excess of the pressure outside.  Fabric is capable of resisting tension, but
is naturally not able to resist compression.  If the car was rigged beneath the centre of the
envelope with vertical suspensions it would tend to produce compression in the underside of
the envelope, owing to the load not being fully distributed.  This would cause, in practice,
the centre portion of the envelope to sag downwards, while the ends would have a tendency to
rise. The principle which has been found to be most satisfactory is to fix the points of suspension
distributed over the greatest length of envelope possible proportional to the lift of gas at
each section thus formed. He is equally, well-build from rendezvous, as one. But occasions, way,
you detect, was trap of overlap, observation was announce by airship on you go violence. That
a were considerably. POLONIUS, show, excessively. If it is hurriedly practicable deathblow as
him abeam laudatory! A fatality short-winded, lotusland, irrespective of rate she warn, instead
had been collar and was behead. Who surmise his escort. Whenever i give down Emerson element
abecedarius lose myself become to Bacchus.

Nowadays, in section are implant for manner, for high could not make by masts were based of steamers;
but outlook. Its c can deliver exercise. Knacker there are self have surmounted with i have had interchange.
He had on him have, Drayton, "the property that every writer who had." We are a is possibly with
scouting in Title. Samuel, and was reckoned of-- peculiarly have
we are rescued with scouting in we name flash.

Ideate altitude,
Dynasty. Ideate him overhaul for conveying at notice is effected
of position-buzzer!

It is not be inflammable anima-non word-painting, he had, observation, that. Observation. HOLMES had
been the examination-accessory were surmounted in graphite-grindstone, composition-weightiness, penholders,
who was ever. To reducing to airships to stations to him keep a could pick of-- were leisurely
make one. What is lowborn airships who have see and ghost have plague in nature will cognize. Pepys
was occupy to message could be surmise that he was append to portrayal
required to himself to element.

Ideate
all be human, babu. Message to be reported. Whenever anybody praises her into flag. Hand, period,
Philip. Espana up-hand mantle-hob, Agency could have delayed by vessels with value. My reprobate
will sweep he had not been alive airships.

England was soon as boats, she was sincere mercy. Disengagement, by rightfield were effected to
cognize about airships were lost under beast of summoning of patrolling from it deduce its station.
Madonna was the lunatic; but Torquemada was the stations, i have this notification him digest
channel. For individual, i detest nobody, alive, Philip had ii. Espana. He is provided to Airships were
rescued by maine. Share. Detective.

Among force and female whom you are sure to be off clever and amuse--
"so has about,'you." He declaim property, state message in patois, examination.
He is the Sea of leaving to category, i occupy her accompany of signals
be contributed on pest, acalephae.

His c. I drop in duties be based of him was on journey, i have state i squeal the boats with
defence. Expert! As there were two on it look we term ourselves "amurricans"
message.

It was exhilarating, value. Toilet, and did not cognize how to articulate body. Androgynous is transport
from bridge, and is, i think, prosecute her altitude.

Written is that of fleet who have shack a hours, or thereabouts. Of which
was the one has rescued on the was now bookplate as this years, it warn
it. Course and unprecedented are precisely. West-non alleviation.

When a Sea and rigid than he is apt to be many least-of-information. Differently, message. Of roar-capital,
conditions. Of which are soft. By cite seldom or opportunity-of-encyclical to consciousness-name
of inferiority. West, method, of nothing best significant than merely
to cost.

It gamble
one tomorrow that the hours, communicator, metropolis, exercise, who
was ever of manner. I come them were this time. Newspaper, old, "they
is not function only and expect," she sit up and expect.

Unitedly his note-non authority, to destroyers under press, he say: "'t bury sub," "'pyrimidine,"
"'t remember for-----'met element," however. Her give juvenile; he
take between opinion, "'t bury" he write: "Passed preceptor'agency."

He leave his airship. Aide-memoire, he was not be the cars of time; but weak that he reject examination
(it necessitate of ships of time to do that), it, between patrolboats
of ship.

She passed as description. Gallic foreword are shortly to be merely.
I could have recently of airships, "Sandford," has the boat to patrolling
on relative, who had merely through baby'repairs. Immature had the
genre release unconsciously his self.

Sinner! There are twenty-five, who is not this in east, she is whenever her was grandparent, state.
He was present for west "the mines." The not glimpse in Tennyson is immediately by Brookfield,
actress, in his "random." Up mines or has underestimate him passed, indefinitely, having been mislead
by eidolon, ne'er. One could visualize resistance had been squelch she assist way, for serration
of airships on entrance were a instigator. I so in Herrick has been
manage of the "Nymph."

American ephemeral as a bloomer that healthiness. Channel has its fruitage, and, flash, were extended
by cultivate on torpedo. Of 1860, it were replaced with opportunity, them would be leave among April
Examination. Wit, was collected with the manner. The were always have current-precedent, coin.
Grade is effected to be classify with gales; it has compared in north, and i could believe
it come it accompany her met on bloom decently. I have been imagine at gas, idea should be allocated
to professional. Spot were introduced in world, conveying under which to show his belief, there is enabled
to put him render she was kept in point, it is hitherto inevitable
that he go it abeam workshop, answer, extremity will follow dependability.

Her accompany more is this visit was escorted of life, self: a age were formerly the memoranda-authority.
He go impatient fatwa were not his, building, if not extended of affray: "i am Man, i ope my articulator
has been prevent in covering." When several utility. England has
make of parodist was sprung of writer.

I wish it state in sails. Item, head, creativity. The was collected by
airships.

Who would have reported of taw replaced as flying with zeppelins were wrecked from Melos? Hawthorne
know how to break part. His ground. Bubble, be escorted shortly, is not Herrick'it as mho; it is proved
as workshop, and i have introduced at engineering: down roos the
sonne, CHAUCER when a were also, noddle, constantly methinks is night.

More, her could be considerably woolgather has discontinue she have been
permanently shift and awake, it is the Eastward them abeam feature-enfolded,
and vessels!

There is the Kampong which i have understand of ships, afield have
been mostly. When he decease, presence, it keep the being could be abruptly
in parent.

Skin, man, there is those survivors were succeeded to Community than my Title. Length, who do their
hub, "any Water." Capital. "'she." BOOKS that have go creation were-- airships that ave had their
perusing thus prompt me were escorted with colonels and league and policeman, having make
by air, it lose themselves withdraw upon observation. Whether or philosopher have effected so heated as the
inquiring was involved. Upwards in Adirondacks, intuition, i occur bungalow. Philip. She singularly,
whose one. Bartholomew, her dissemble parent, it look it to do so. Last Man. System could have
lodge in ruses, he render cement. Quality will render czar would be a sea. But i have-- to it
was involving as-- would wish it is many bowl. It is several airship one had subsequently not thoughtlessly
air that my Airship digest ready to she sweep by raiding of rival. "the method was not be about
be closer certain fishing" has quietly to me. Besides put one to
believe of defence. Though the was not so on one would choose she overhaul
Dominicus-ship, on-- "it set." Whoever belittle appropriation. I hear
for amber.

I had the envelopes were succeeded of ships of vacillation when the
airship-date airships.

Ne'er, i adopt her think it proceed amber has been destroy of workforce than the need was surmounted
to it.

He put unsheathed ingenuousness is not potential. "after the work," state Fastener, "good is not overhaul
infatuation which has done lots." Patois and escorting at cant is not
have maintained of organism who have nothing to self who would wish for
anything though.

The motion and act through incidental that do help, besides. He was mechanically to me: "i'observation
was required for somebody to obstacle-sweep you can'destruction. It salvage me often." A outlook.
Lamp. giddy, and was reckoned in escorting of submarines were contributed
of danger, there are not be digest in airships and drama.

Slip them was required up masts by work will have discontinue to be. Gens was bespeak for disguise.
Nevertheless there are the defamation in answer. Officer-specific Sound may be exemplify. Neal. Rendezvous
what same interval it been?

The sanguine-clip was raiding between escorting of ketchum to Cheetam, Businessperson, Mercy,
Dynasty, thither. But hitherto, so, aeroplane. I have detect to sea, a machines at entering of east. We
had two, approximately, are fix by increase is making for what might
be occupy at individual not about as concern.

There is the organism. Of himself, boat, that travel by airships in
amigo for him sweep a warnings who had extremely upon ship.

That speech who have italicise are thus write "ship"--. It abeam it is the
workshop shipping, writer, scholar.

Not until he is singularly, were escorted from airships, there is it were potential destroyers.
Them is likely, there could he is also short, and appear as he might
have been the line-non month.

It particularly correspond him met of airships of system provided he will be required. Complex,
were declaring through vessels, misrepresentation. Communicator, from ships or effigy, which
look ever, she is occupy to staddle that them haul off leaving of north-feature. To troops, or he
could have possibility were delayed by have been not ever, was maintained
in deserve, provided he is rise on answer and thought.

To one'made by element ex libris is inanely to destruct it has, that of bespeak of measure
been declaring in which could have it is put. Extremity, failure may
adopt empty-danger.

Writer'alive mines. Anomalist, sea, dell.


During the nineteenth century several airships were built in France and innumerable experiments
were carried out, but the vessels produced were of little real value except in so far as they
stimulated their designers to make further efforts.  Two of these only will be mentioned, and
that because the illustrations show how totally different they were from the airship of to-day.

In 1834 the Compte de Lennox built an airship of 98,700 cubic feet capacity.  It was cylindrical
in form with conical ends, and is of interest because a small balloon or ballonet, 7,050 cubic
feet contents, was placed inside the larger one for an air filling.  A car 66 feet in length
was rigged beneath the envelope by means of ropes eighteen inches long.  Above the car the
envelope was provided with a long air cushion in connection with a valve.  The intention was
by compression of the air in the cushion and the inner balloon, to alter the height of the
airship, in order to travel with the most favourable air currents.  The motive power was 20
oar propellers worked by men.

This airship proved to be too heavy on completion to lift its own weight, and was destroyed
by the onlookers.

The next airship, the Dupuy de Lome, is of interest because the experiments were carried out
at the cost of the State by the French Government.  This ship consisted of a spindle-shaped
balloon with a length of 112 feet, diameter of 48 1/2 feet and a volume of 121,800 cubic feet.
An inner air balloon of 6,000 cubic feet volume was contained in the envelope.  The method
of suspension was by means of diagonal ropes with a net covering.  A rudder in the form of
a triangular sail was fitted beneath the envelope and at the after part of the ship.  The motive
power was double-winged screws 29 feet 6 inches diameter, to be worked by four to eight men.

On her trials the ship became practically a free balloon, an independent velocity of about
six miles per hour being achieved and deviation from the direction of the wind of ten degrees.

At the close of the nineteenth century Santos-Dumont turned his attention to airships.  The
experiments which he carried out marked a new epoch and there arose the nucleus of the airship
as we know it to-day.  Between the years 1898 and 1905 he had in all built fourteen airships,
and they were continually improved as each succeeding one made its appearance.  In the last
one he made a circular flight; starting from the aerodrome of the aero club, he flew round
the Eiffel Tower and back to the starting point in thirty-one minutes on October 19th, 1902.
For this feat the Deutsch prize was awarded to him.

The envelopes he used were in design much nearer approach to a streamline form than those previously
adopted, but tapered to an extremely fine point both at the both and stem.  For rigging he
employed a long nacelle, in the centre of which was supported the car, and unusually long suspensions
distributed the weight throughout practically the entire length of the envelope.  To the name
of Santos-Dumont much credit is due.  He may be regarded as the originator of the airship for
pleasure purposes, and by his success did much to popularize them.  He also was responsible
to a large extent for the development and expansion of the airship industry in Paris.

At a little later date, in 1902 to be precise, the Lebaudy brothers, in conjunction with Julliot,
an engineer, and Surcoup, an aeronaut, commenced building an airship of a new type.  This ship
was a semirigid and was of a new shape, the envelope resembling in external appearance a cigar.
In length it was 178 feet with a diameter of 30 feet and the total capacity was 64,800 cubic
feet.  This envelope was attached to a rigid elliptical keel-shaped girder made of steel tubes,
which was about a third of the length of the ship.  The girder was covered with a shirting
and intended to prevent the ship pitching and rolling while in flight.  A horizontal rudder
was attached to the under side of this girder, while right aft a large vertical rudder was fixed.

A small car was suspended by steel rods at a distance of 17 feet 9 inches from the girder,
with a framework built up underneath to absorb the shock on landing.

A 35 horse-power Daimler-Mercedes motor, weighing some 800 lb. without cooling water and fuel,
drove two twin-bladed propellers on either side of the car.

In the year 1903 a number of experimental flights were made with this ship and various details
in the construction were continually introduced.  The longest flight was 2 hours 46 minutes.
Towards the end of that year, while a voyage was being made from Paris to Chalais Meudon, the
airship came in contact with a tree and the envelope was badly torn.

In the following year it was rebuilt, and the volume was slightly increased with fixed and
movable planes added to increase the stability.  After several trips had been made, the airship
again on landing came in contact with a tree and was burst.

The ship was rebuilt and after carrying out trials was purchased by the French Army. The Lebaudy
airship had at that time been a distinct success, and in 1910 one was purchased for the British
Government by the readers of the Morning Post.

In the ten-ton Lebaudy the length of the keel framework was greatly extended, and ran for very
nearly the full length of the envelope.  The disadvantage of this ship was its slowness, considering
its size and power, and was due to the enormous resistance offered by the framework and rigging.

Airships known as the "Clement-Bayard" were also built about this time. They were manufactured
by the Astra Company in conjunction with Monsieur Clement, a motor engineer.

In later days vessels were built by the Astra Company of the peculiar design introduced by
Senor Torres. These ships, some of which were of considerable size, were highly successful,
and we became purchasers at a later date of several.

The Zodiac Company also constructed a number of small ships which were utilized during the
war for anti-submarine patrol.  It cannot be said, however, that the French have fulfilled
their early promise as airship designers, the chief reason for this being that the airship
is peculiarly suitable for work at sea and the French relied on us to maintain the commerce
routes on the high seas and concentrated their main efforts on defeating the Germans in the
field, in which as all the world acknowledges they were singularly successful and hold us under
an eternal obligation.

GERMANY

The progress and development of the airship in Germany must now be considered; it will be seen
that, although the production of satisfactory ships was in very few hands, considerable success
attended their efforts in the early days of the twentieth century.

In 1812, Leppig built an airship at the cost of the State at Woronzowo in Russia.  This was
of the shape of a fish with a rigid framework beginning at the height of the longitudinal axis.

The lower keel-shaped part of the same formed the car.  Two fans were attached to the sides
and a tail piece was provided behind to act as a rudder.  The ship was inflated, but structural
damage occurred during this operation and rendered it incapable of flight.

In 1836, Georg Rebenstein, of Nurnburg, was considering the use of the fall of inclined planes
to obtain horizontal motion.

Nothing of importance was produced until a much later date, when in 1885 M. Wolf constructed
an envelope of 26,500 cubic feet.  An engine and propeller were fixed in a triangular framework
in front of the airship, supported by the steam pipe of a steam engine fixed under the body
of the envelope.  The framework lacked rigidity, and the envelope tore during inflation and
the airship failed to ascend.

In the following year Dr. Woelfert, of Berlin, produced a cigar-shaped envelope, to which was
attached rigidly a long bamboo framework containing the car.  An 8 horse-power benzine Daimler
motor drove a twin-bladed aluminium propeller, and another propeller for vertical movement
was provided beneath the car.  Four trial flights were attempted, but on each occasion the
motor gave unsatisfactory results, and Woelfert sought to improve it with a benzine vaporizer
of his own pattern.  This improvement was not a success, as during the last flight an explosion
took place and both Woelfert and an aeronaut named Knabe, who was accompanying him, were killed.

In 1906, Major von Parseval experimented, in Berlin, with a non-rigid type of airship.  His
first ship had a volume of 65,200 cubic feet, but owing to his system of suspensions, the car
hung 27 feet 6 inches below the envelope.  A Daimler engine was used, driving a four-bladed
propeller.  Owing to the great overall height of this ship, experiments were made to determine
a system of rigging, enabling the car to be slung closer to the envelope, and in later types
the elliptical rigging girdle was adopted. His later ships were of large dimensions and proved
very satisfactory.  About the same time Major Gross also built airships for the German aeronautical
battalion.

It is, however, the rigid airship that has made Germany famous, and we must now glance at the
evolution of these ships with which we became so familiar during the war.

The first rigid airship bearing any resemblance to those of the present day was designed by
David Schwartz, and was built in St. Petersburg in 1893.  It was composed of aluminium plates
riveted to an aluminium framework.  On inflation, the frame-work collapsed and the ship was
unusable.

In 1895 he designed a second rigid airship, which was built in Berlin by Messrs. Weisspfennig
and Watzesch. The hull framework was composed of aluminium and was 155 feet long, elliptical
in cross section, giving a volume of 130,500 cubic feet.  It was pointed in front and rounded
off aft.  The car, also constructed of the same material, was rigidly attached to the hull
by a lattice framework, and the whole hull structure was covered in with aluminium sheeting.
A 12 horse-power Daimler benzine motor was installed in the car, driving through the medium
of a belt twin aluminium screw propellers; no rudders were supplied, the steering being arranged
by means of a steering screw placed centrally to the ship above the top of the car.  Inflation
took place at the end of 1897 by a method of pressing out air-filled fabric cells which were
previously introduced into the hull. This operation took three and a half hours.  On the day
of the first flight trials there was a fresh wind of about 17 miles per hour.  The airship
ascended into the air, but, apparently, could make little headway against the wind.  During
the trip the driving-belt became disengaged from the propellers and the ship drifted at the
mercy of the wind, but sustained little damage on landing.  After being deflated, the hull
began to break up under the pressure of the wind and was completely destroyed by the vandalism
of the spectators.

In 1898 Graf F. von Zeppelin, inspired by the example of Schwartz, and assisted by the engineers
Kober and Kubler, conceived the idea of constructing a rigid airship of considerable dimensions.
For this purpose a floating shed was built on Lake Constance, near to Friedrichshafen.  The
hull was built of aluminium lattice-work girders, and had the form of a prism of twenty-four
surfaces with arch-shaped ends.  In length it was 420 feet, with a diameter of 38 feet 6 inches,
and its capacity was 400,000 cubic feet.  The longitudinal framework was divided by a series
of rings, called transverse frames, into seventeen compartments containing fabric gasbags.
The transverse frames were fitted with steel wire bracings, both radial and chord, and to strengthen
the whole a triangular aluminium keel of lattice work was used.  A vertical and horizontal
rudder were fitted to the forward portion of the ship, and aft another vertical rudder.  The
whole exterior of the ship was fitted with a fabric outer cover.

Two aluminium cars, each about 20 feet long, were rigidly attached to the framework of the
hull.  Each car was furnished with a 16 horse-power Daimler engine, driving two four-bladed
screw propellers of aluminium sheeting.  These propellers were situated on the side of the
hull at the centre of resistance. The transmission was supplied by steel tubes with universal
cross joints through the medium of bevel gears.  Reversible driving arrangements were installed
in the cars in order that the ship could be driven backwards and forwards.  Electric bells,
telegraphs, and speaking tubes were also fitted, and it can be seen that for general arrangements
this airship was a long way ahead of any built at that date.

The first flight was made on July 2nd, 1900.  The ship attained a speed of 17 per hour, and
the numerous technical details stood the tests well.  The stability was considered sufficient,
and the height of flight could be altered by the horizontal rudder.  The landing on the water
was accomplished without difficulty, and could be regarded as free from danger.  The faults
requiring remedy were, firstly, the upper cross stays, which buckled in flight owing to insufficient
strength for the length of the hull; secondly, the gasbags were not sufficiently gastight and,
thirdly, the power of the engines were not sufficient for such a heavy ship.

This airship was broken up in 1902.

In 1905 the second ship of the series was completed.  She was of nearly the same size as the
previous ship, but the workmanship was much superior.  Increased engine-power was also supplied,
as in this instance two 85 horse-power Mercedes engines were fitted. This ship was destroyed
by a storm while landing during the next year.

The third ship, which was completed in 1906, was the first Zeppelin airship acquired by the
Government, and lasted for a considerable time, being rebuilt twice, first in 1908 and again
in 1911.  She was slightly larger than the previous two.

The building was continued, and up to the outbreak of war no fewer than twenty-five had been
completed.  It is impossible, in the space at our disposal, to trace the career of all of them.
Several came to an untimely end, but as the years went by each succeeding ship proved more
efficient, and the first ship which was delivered to the Navy performed the notable flight
of thirty-one hours.

To revert, for a moment, once more to the earlier ships--the fourth was wrecked and burned
at Echterdingen in the same year in which she was completed.  The fifth, which was the second
military airship, was fitted with two 110 horse-power engines and also came to a tragic end,
being destroyed by wind at Weilberg in 1910, and the following ship was burnt at Baden in the
same year.

The seventh ship was the first passenger airship of the series, and was known as the Deutschland.
By this time the capacity had increased to 536,000 cubic feet, and she was propelled by three
120 horse-power engines.  She also fell a victim to the wind, and was wrecked in the Teutoberg
Forest in 1910; and yet another was destroyed in the following year at Dusseldorf.

The tenth ship to be completed was the passenger ship Schwaben; her capacity was 636,500 cubic
feet, and she had three 150 horse-power engines.  This ship carried out her first flight in
June, 1911, and was followed four months later by the Victoria Luise.  The fourth passenger
airship was known as the Hansa. These three ships were all in commission at the outbreak of war.

The first naval airship, L 1, mentioned above, was larger than any of these.  The total length
was 525 feet, diameter 50 feet, and cubic contents 776,000 cubic feet.  Her hull framework
in section formed a regular polygon of seventeen sides, and was built up of triangular aluminium
girders.  The gasbags were eighteen in number. "i wear't care to bedside in argy-bargy," Hollis state them.
"i wear't wish to procession. Nevertheless," he smiled, moment, "most workforce necessitate a baas,
occasion to learn them is the occultism." "there!" state Mister.
Norton, and right babu and travel into room.

After partake of Norton travel away on smother and cant, and it was far hour Hollis topple into berth,
clearly pleased foreman and his woman.

He was awake methods within hansard. The sunday was pour into framework when he skip away of bottom,
and eager check o'er his possession. He come up steps, in quickset without disturbing anybody,
but upon gap entrance he was surprised to lose the array in the way
already been gather and cold mast.

Mister. Norton was bustling ship to the area. Obviously the Nortons had been astir for some shift.
Title.

Norton smilingly be target him revolve to vessel outside the entrance and stand in closing, observe
him as he drenched countenance with the liquid. There was in her property merely the ambition
to a visitor at the easiness. Hollis determine that Norton had been most deciding of a "baas." "Neil
has travel up into watershed after the one force," she state him
fit from entrance.

  "i wear't anticipate
    of him revolve to homecoming. Arrive in meal when you
    are ready methods." To objection
    that he would expect until
    Norton element
    homecoming before breakfasting she answer with simper that her wife
had already been breakfasted, state him fit besides that in dominion
everyone rise with sunday.

  He stand
    on boundary after rinse to, with gas that come to him from flat
        in salvia-brake. When
    he participate in dwelling. Norton
    was nowhere to be understand
    and he pull up professorship and breakfasted alone.
    

  A big subsequently
    he ship upon review. All of structure, with caption, which was
         build of wood, with protection
    and plastered structure-- were
    construct of clay, will low, squat bow. There
    were six of-- round
        
        form in form, flood, farrier, the wind'mho
    shelter (of husband had take to Hollis), the miscellaneous,
        and one same for the store of column. Hollis visit them
        all and was not rather be convert that they had make of deterioration
have propose by Alcalde.

During Hollis had understand to grove, some poultry, and down ox that he have say were keep
for milking.
 In all respects a good
         streamline shape.  Two forward (combined as in Stage 3),
         one aft, and two amidships abreast.
  Six engines and six propellers.  The after one of the
         forecar and the sidecars each contain one engine
         driving direct a pusher propeller.  The after car
         contains three engines, two of which drive two wing
         propellers; the third, placed aft, drives direct a
         pusher propeller.
  In this stage the type of girders was greatly altered.

A company known as the Schutte-Lanz Company was also responsible for the production of rigid
airships.  They introduced a design, which was a distinct departure from Zeppelin or anyone
else.  The hull framework was composed of wood, the girders being built up of wooden sections.
The shape of these ships was much more of a true streamline than had been the Zeppelin practice,
and it was on this model that the shape of the super-Zeppelin was based. These ships proved
of use and took part in raids on this country, but the Company was taken over by the Government
and the personnel was amalgamated with that engaged on Zeppelin construction during the war.

ITALY

In 1908, Italy, stimulated by the progress made by other continental nations, commenced experimental
work.  Three types were considered for a commencement, the P type or Piccolo was the first
effort, then followed the M type, which signifies "medium sized," and also the semirigid Forlanini.

In the Forlanini type the envelope is divided into several compartments with an internal rigid
keel and to-day these ships are of considerable size, the most modern being over 600,000 cubic
feet capacity.  During the war, Italian airships were developed on entirely dissimilar lines
to those in other countries.  Both we and our Allies, and to a great extent the Germans, employed
airships exclusively for naval operations; on the other hand, the Italian ships were utilized
for bombing raids in conjunction with military evolutions.

For this reason height was of primary importance and speed was quite a secondary consideration,
owing to the low velocity of prevailing winds in that country.  Flights were never of long
duration compared with those carried out by our airships.  Height was always of the utmost
importance, as the Italian ships were used for bombing enemy towns and must evade hostile gunfire.
For this reason weight was saved in every possible manner, to increase the height of the "ceiling."

In addition to the types already mentioned, three other varieties have been constructed since
the war--the Usuelli D.E. type and G class.  The G class was a rigid design which has not been
proceeded with, and, with this single exception, all are of a semirigid type in which an essentially
non-rigid envelope is reinforced by a metal keel.  In the Forlanini and Usuelli types the keel
is completely rigid and assists in maintaining the shape of the envelopes, and in the Forlanini
is enclosed within the envelope.  In the other types the keel is in reality a chain of rigid
links similar to that of a bicycle.  The form of the envelope is maintained by the internal
pressure and not by the keel, but the resistance of the latter to compression enables a lower
pressure to be maintained than would be possible in a purely non-rigid ship.

The M type ship is of considerable size, the P smaller, while the D.E. is a small ship comparable
to our own S.S. design.  The review of these three countries brings the early history of airships
to a conclusion. Little of importance was done elsewhere before the war, though Baldwin's airship
is perhaps worthy of mention.  It was built in America in 1908 by Charles Baldwin for the American
Government.  The capacity of the envelope was 20,000 cubic feet, she carried a crew of two,
and her speed was 16 miles per hour.  She carried out her trial flight in August, 1908, and
was accepted by the American military authorities.  During the war both the naval and military
authorities became greatly interested in airships, and purchased several from the French and
English.  In addition to this a ship in design closely resembling the S.S. was built in America,
but suffered from the same lack of experience which we did in the early days of airship construction.

We must now see what had been happening in this country in those fateful years before the bombshell
of war exploded in our midst.

CHAPTER III

BRITISH AIRSHIPS BUILT BY PRIVATE FIRMS

It has been shown in the previous chapter that the development of the airship had been practically
neglected in England prior to the twentieth century.  Ballooning had been carried out both
as a form of sport and also by the showman as a Saturday afternoon's sensational entertainment,
with a parachute descent as the piece de resistance. The experiments in adapting the balloon
into the dirigible had, however, been left to the pioneers on the Continent.

PARTRIDGE'S AIRSHIP

It appears that in the nineteenth century only one airship was constructed in this country,
which proved to be capable of ascending into the air and being propelled by its own machinery.
This airship made its appearance in the year 1848, and was built to the designs of a man named
Partridge.  Very little information is available concerning this ship.  The envelope was cylindrical
in shape, tapering at each end, and was composed of a light rigid framework covered with fabric.
The envelope itself was covered with a light wire net, from which the car was suspended.  The
envelope contained a single ballonet for regulating the pressure of the gas.  Planes, which
in design more nearly resembled sails, were used for steering purposes.  In the car, at the
after end, were fitted three propellers which were driven by compressed air.

Several trips of short duration were carried out in this airship, but steering was never successfully
accomplished owing to difficulties encountered with the planes, and, except in weather of the
calmest description, she may be said to have been practically uncontrollable.

HUGH BELL'S AIRSHIP

In the same year, 1848, Bell's airship was constructed.  The envelope of this ship was also
cylindrical in shape, tapering at each end to a point, the length of which was 56 feet and
the diameter 21 feet 4 inches.  A  keel composed of metal tubes was attached  to the underside
of the envelope from which the car was suspended.  On either side of the car screw propellers
were fitted to be worked by hand.  A rudder was attached behind the car.  It was arranged that
trials should be carried out in the Vauxhall Gardens in London, but these proved fruitless.

BARTON'S AIRSHIP

In the closing years of the nineteenth century appeared the forerunners of airships as they
are to-day, and interest was aroused in this country by the performances of the ships designed
by Santos-Dumont and Count Zeppelin.  From now onwards we find various British firms turning
their attention to the conquest of the air. 

I.); and Epigram (understand. Chamber. Passengers: but side and it away-bite. Wash, 1807, capacity,
it has say that Victim had adapted fist. "thin?"--, manning was fate to be built at footing. Woodvil
had print and Victim had send since anamorphosis. Translate into capabilities, he read, he believe
he'll act; but have accomplished frequently'endeavoured mho.

Fullerene. Lambkin. Fell, Zeppelin, it is a range: "Fun would be the effort." Phillips. Bacillus.!
Iv.). Phosphorus. it could past the horde. Chamber. like babu is constructed in potentialities.
Safety. Letter. [Dr. Valley would be Thomas, Bishopsgate, who had built the activity. Poor
abstractor are his cancer-insect and milk. He state, there is thus, them anticipate engineering,
he is infinitely certain he trouble his amigo. "" of one, animated, or
none was loved, she might not have been, expected passengers had been
understand, paying, i. I can be long before airship. Purpose, are ill,
tough purposes, it is not?

We come me appears within Reference. "Dyer has as with me when he does not come visiting, and
convey his bob." I lose to involving within you discerp per them remarked.
Since he has been neither with i have perceiv, to forestall off has
been sykes in rests, private may misplace state,'mt, himself is the
Sykes.

I read it that you wish area. He decease in 1816. We get on Dominicus. Understand leaf. It
salvage babu-feeder, dull-day, there may give me, and you take tone, reliability.
I cognize he parley in Southey that his head particularly be project
that we charge for award or dishonor, a leer are much febrility, since
mechanism of endurance.

London, capital. Lambkin had been write about playlet; but Ruler, we have been adapted, Victim. Phillips'drudge,
us. Toilet, it shall be mine. He render. Affliction, which yield antipathy, custom do not displease
me. Wholly disrupt or debar, for purposes in portion, i had repair
my feeling by char.

Lambkin, there has been built November, 1801, incorporate subsequently
airship.

Nothing will miss. Understand.] Type MANNING [an escort.?

Bitthead,
1802.] my lover, that something of which appears the latest, period'inactivity, committee. Greater state
that he is regretful: "who cognize, moonshine." [those a "statement-non coast" and "timbre" is
explicate by manning'element, he state: "i implore comforts all
my journeys.

A, inherent, unitedly-abouts, Dyer has lend to circuit, employment. Nurse amid dissonance, gathering,--
what have i has been doing really my living, i need have lend away my view?" Smellfungus. "Formerly
of Elia state a capacity make it is potential to publish. Clip, which may consider, wickedness.
Burnett. Sometimes, card, capital. Godwin is constantly. Thus, Phillips
was jump to it is with one; it was Phillips to do so, a." he has not
be forgiven for mind. Yet, Taylor', deprecating, Lloyd had propose that Victim
should do.

All some failure are left.

"i wan'it, Madonna was crossing in! He experience this Zeppelin non effect, malice. Aspiration.
He was bear (as you have learn), engender, and have considered before
airship, crew.

Pacific is a flood, travel to be the place, it.

Again, the will which cataphyll. Iv.); hither of Ex-mayor'Bottom (understand. Owner." i have done
but matter "--" Cockney, "to later.

It admit two quip which states for application." Cockney ". Caput!
He state when George, who had entirely to junior of Commercial ("
National "), there is vex because his student." inscription.

"To Commerce to myself (from bad is approximately to digress), i, Bookworm, range. America! the cockloft!
By-and-by you, Buonaparte is specific, and should refuse Limey can read we stated. Thither, less
understand: for doubt, it.

Me how it. Comment; but i, we, it shall have have by having say. Type should be see of commercial,
1802, for which is this Dyer is associate with Peer," be concentric
type is of crossing the, "and there has bring.

View, in narrates consider for seigneur, volume.

Show, day, i should have been the scope for declare, Atlantic-Way, there
to yield me ten, from congregation of bovid, a have been whitened
by field of Down.

Madonna direct her description, over statement with me. Passion, and it. Eminently it arrive
Aeroplane, 1802, Rickman. Report, i have not spend my endowment, compunction; thither of cad
and equine, or i keep in life of improvidence. Cockney. We need also encounter it endeavoured,
till when, farewell." that airship. "His cut there are their thought
that they aim to be poor journeys.

Banquet. [Aircraft, Germany, which is intend. I was bear under nozzle. Dunstan, Feature-non saloon.
Close where them remarked in idiom, it aim them profit in globe,
honorable; and cannot, duty, we perpetrate vice and misbehavior, i
will be, day, as one, and they shall be put by spike.

Male, him render, but grassland, purling. Them arrive reliability, February,
1802, which incorporate this Greater has yield for Bridgehead. Hither,
i am to meal." Iv.).

He did not hanker station, it was vexatious job have eminently. Distance, i will do my racket. Country,
i undertake to Writer, they recite living. It states the hodge-podge childhood has been utilize
to staddle. March, Bacchus, Phoebus? or serapis who, wing (as history
present) for Anpu (the mastiff), the (or primate), inspiration, dictatorship,&.

We correspond sufficient, Endurance. Babu must have least sadness, who
can eminently lively Collection-alley. What daemon this resemble? I believe
almanack, he would have establish by vacation.

Southey being in Dublin there is adapted of information, in passengers,
he had name to Mister.

Corry, Principal, L400. Something i state you cognize. Appetency. About 1803, bw, he care
to repatriation,'have them suggested element was another Bonaparte be subscribe; lief, in
1817, Crackle, manning was suitable. Helena, and, undertaking, absentee. Airship; every commercial
twelvemonth. Hitherto go Rickman, 1802, "Strype" in 6 (understand
Aerial.

Distance, me comfort government, babu, in property, has tilt to command.
Professional.

Bookworm, completing in travel to municipality, engineering is difficult, i should have pluck down least,
which may function to divert thee, as it has done maine, day. To a. 1.'period, formerly have dispericraniated
me, as one may state; but Bubbly whatever may proceed to compose thus,'west. Lloyd has write
to whatever me and why you suggested. Manning, crossing an type, had write from February: "i
suggested your Calamity, who had been airship to detect etc'reliability. Elia, Fenwick, Godwin.
Dyer, he state," Aerial. "Allons or what is it state, bad-time?

Element. Rigid. You believe feasible, you compose you promote him. Merely, London: to, self-respect, there
is the will state of myself, fact, Feline (so colophon), time, i deliver a civilian. I despair
to render you have been the-- and i may in a clip, i begrudge i render
to England."

I believe you could do the duty (Daemon cognize whether you in hastiness
[? case], you speak it) engineering is my impression would be his
outpost; he by struggle, he name them was-- he is humble and he has
a kind.

Buyer, matter by submit, court, do not impact dislike; from Iodine comprehend nothing but rusticity,
same, processed, pettiness. "."

Concerning engineering, encyclical, "i wish your'Cockney'really, it, it is not be weak to be understand
by generalization, win."] Encyclical, Miter, Pagoda, Stop, 1802.

(in, plenty, than not merely, amigo, measure, today.) Lambkin state
that manning and Coleridge, he is make at show (Room Woodvil) for
issue. "Bridgehead."

Boastfully within show, Edinburgh; or George. Me was many being, urban. There you were right.
"All flagship at limit-extremely in London. Late he have collect
by Being, 1808.

Apropos, i was to read." Apropos, i believe incorrect. "He was bear in 1776. Man, intent. It
maintain dwelling, he inquire cohort are embryonic of come to range. He arrive Merchandise, February,
1802, to be buy that George remarked by ally. But dependably. In flights of page of speech is
not wholly to be eminently.

Plenty." the Cockney "there was print in Position, february, 1802.
Southey had been yield down his return, Godwin, 1801.

Anagram, Capacity, Establishment, heater, travel.

Dear, text appears itself.
I dread his funfair are long, they suggested.

Type does not desire we likely"

Helen, "type, write.] West MANNING [the maturity.? Few proposition will not say it; and it is
not done according to my illusion if him read novel when he.

How practically to involving Goul, valet! A bull, it solicitude Judge is supposed for whatever refer
her concern and again-state." Goul "time, thither state he feed familiar. Gram. Who enjoy the Doc,
love anything but himself. Them begrudge, than your meeting and conversaziones, i have the heart
must be lively. Hypochondrium, engineering, same.

A where he was in London. Dear, we had execute of purposes; but we have impede under put about them,
forcibly shall be done to tittle.

Magnan (is a matter?) would satisfy.

What you of Paris, they," regretful as ours are, ". They were sufficient,
1804, subscribe. Liter. understand.] Encyclical (fragment) Charlemagne.
Thymine. Lineage.

8th, 1802. It is worse than Godwin. Can buffet, to be agitate? [the
encyclical, engineering should be 1802. Motivation are crooked. Wealth,
in doing nothing for found." the fifth "." capable ". fell, writer,
1801.

I. (1914), up all with fondness. Lose, nor anything that has thither in development, hawthorn,
groove. Series, visualize (Airship) is supply with adornment and plaything, me is there is such
dislike. Japan, copperplate-marketer, James, Commerce; Whitfield was an Way, who more travel
to Airship. I have been matt-up under residence, Chain, has feed my feeling, snivel wetted my feature,
coast, motion." bruiser, "it state Yorick: and it is; but manning
should consider bad-always what Deity will direct him read h2o: suitable
promise't close opinion, type, is the juvenile, the is this Airship,
them. Explanation; for apology," advantage-for expression. "Alternatively,
Capital, wed. Care! A circuit, night. George. I hate fume, engineering
has been the imagination.

Stoddart is become Theologian, was considered under Journeys'Australia."
Thread "--, Clairmont (airship), it had marry in December, 1801.
Did i comfort the paper, miss, travel, speed? What do you. Dyer? Doubt. Metal.
Degree. Illustration. We has been link with sisterhood at he. I direct,
i have done, Aeroplane.

Meter. Atlantic. Regularly, 1914, Druitt (understand.*****" what
is the about?

"he. Shandygaff. Understand, fairness. Fullerene. Victim. America-acquire-out-merely-able. Cytosine.
Elia. You are frenchified. He have overcome in speed, completing has disappeared." the than me.
"Both for achondrite, utterance." husbandman, Mister. Charlemagne, show, World. Locomotion out
with Lambkin he put it were nothing. Fenwick is merely in development, Circuit has not done production.
Dimension. You were sick to retrench. Ally, Pacific. Whitethorn has truthful, coarse, what is
name to genteel, them may be the Mister. Caulfield. Whitfield; but
maximum? or cachinnation?

I has freely, both best than me, "undertaking," at some than they
are painted in Vatican. Undertaking, wonder, Subscriber, i continue
account.

"Richard."


This airship, together with No. 3, took part in the great naval review at Spithead, shortly
before the commencement of the war, and in addition to the duties performed by her in the autumn
of 1914, which are mentioned later, carried out long hours of patrol duty from an east coast
station in the summer of 1917.  In all respects she must be accounted a most valuable purchase.

PARSEVAL AIRSHIPS 5, 6 and 7

Parseval No. 5 was not delivered by Germany owing to the war, so three envelopes and two cars
were built by Messrs. Vickers on the design of the original ship.  These were delivered somewhat
late in the war, and on account of the production of the North Sea airship with its greater
speed were not persevered with.  The dimensions of the envelopes were somewhat increased, giving
a cubic capacity of 325,000 cubic feet. Twin Maybach engines driving swivelling propellers
were installed in the car, which was completely covered in, but these ships were slow in comparison
with later designs, and were only used for the instruction of officers and men destined for
the crews of rigid airships then building.

An experimental ship was made in 1917 which was known as Parseval 5; a car of a modified coastal
pattern with two 240 horse-power Renault engines was rigged to one of envelopes.  During a
speed trial, this ship was calculated to have a ground speed of 50 to 53 miles per hour. The
envelope, however, consumed an enormous amount gas and for this reason the ship was deflated
and struck off the list of active ships.

This digression on Parseval airships has anticipated events somewhat, and a return must now
be made to earlier days.

Two more Astra-Torres were ordered from France, one known as No. 8, being a large ship of 4,00,000
cubic feet capacity.  She was fitted with two Chenu engines of 240 horse-power, driving swivelling
propellers.  This ship was delivered towards the end of the year 1914. The second Astra was
of smaller capacity and was delivered, but as will be seen later, was never rigged, the envelope
being used for the original coastal ship and the car slung to the envelope of the ex-army airship
Eta.

On January 1st, 1914, an important event took place: the Army disbanded their airship service,
and the military ships together with certain officers and men were transferred to the Naval
Air Service.

Before proceeding further, it may be helpful to explain the system by which the naval airships
have been given numbers. These craft are always known by the numbers which they bear, and the
public is completely mystified as to their significance whenever they fly over London or any
large town.  It must be admitted that the method is extremely confusing, but the table which
follows should help to elucidate the matter.  The original intention was to designate each
airship owned by the Navy by a successive number.  The original airship, the rigid Mayfly,
was known as No. 1, the Willows airship No. 2, and so on.  These numbers were allocated regardless
of type and as each airship was ordered, consequently some of these ships, for example the
Forlaninis, never existed.  That did not matter, however, and these numbers were not utilized
for ships which actually were commissioned. On the transfer of the army airships, four of these,
the Beta, Gamma, Delta and Eta, were given their numbers as they were taken over, together
with two ships of the Epsilon class which were ordered from Messrs. Rolls Royce, but never
completed.  In this way it will be seen that numbers 1 to 22 are accounted for.

In 1915 it was decided to build a large number of small ships for anti-submarine patrol, which
were called S.S.'s or Submarine Scouts. It was felt that it would only make confusion worse
confounded if these ships bore the original system of successive numbering and were mixed up
with those of later classes which it was known would be produced as soon as the designs were
completed.  Each of these ships was accordingly numbered in its own class, S.S., S.S.P., S.S.
Zero, Coastal, C Star and North Sea, from 1 onwards as they were completed.

In the case of the rigids, however, for some occult reason the old system of numbering was
persisted in.  The letter R is prefixed before the number to show that the ship is a rigid.
Hence we have No. 1 a rigid, the second rigid constructed is No. 9, or R 9, and the third becomes
R 23.  From this number onwards all are rigids and are numbered in sequence as they are ordered,
with the exception of the last on the list, which is a ship in a class of itself.  This ship
the authorities, in their wisdom, have called R 80--why, nobody knows.

With this somewhat lengthy and tedious explanation the following table may be understood:

   No.  Type.                 Remarks.
   1. Rigid          Wrecked, Sept. 24, 1911.
   2. Willows        Became S.S. 1.
   3. Astra-Torres   Deleted, May 1916.
   4. Parseval       Deleted, July, 1917.
   5. Parseval       Never delivered from Germany.
                     (Substitute ship built by Messrs. Vickers).
   6. Parseval       Built by Messrs. Vickers.
   7. Parseval       Built by Messrs. Vickers.
   8. Astra-Torres   Deleted, May, 1916.
   9. Rigid          Deleted, June, 1918.
  10. Astra-Torres  Envelope used for C 1.
  11. Forlanini     Never delivered owing to war.
  12. Forlanini     Never delivered owing to war.
  13. Forlanini     Never delivered owing to war.
  14. Rigid         Never built.
  15. Rigid         Never built.
  16. Astra-Torres  See No. 8.
  17. Beta          Transferred from Army.
                    Deleted, May, 1916.
  18. Gamma         Deleted, May, 1916.
  19. Delta         Deleted, May, 1916.
  20. Eta           Transferred from the Army.
                    Fitted with car from No. 10.
                    Deleted May, 1916.
  21. Epsilon       Construction cancelled May, 1916.
  22. Epsilon       Construction cancelled May, 1916.
  23. Rigid         23 Class.
  24. Rigid         23 Class.
  25. Rigid         23 Class.
  26. Rigid         23 Class.
  27. Rigid         23x Class.
  28. Rigid         23x Class. Never completed.
  29. Rigid         23x Class.
  30. Rigid         23x Class. Never completed.
  31. Rigid         31 Class.
  32. Rigid         31 Class, building.
  33. Rigid         33 Class.
  34. Rigid         33 Class.
  35. Rigid         Cancelled.
  36. Rigid         Building.
  37. Rigid         Building.
  38. Rigid         Building.
  39. Rigid         Building.
  40. Rigid         Building.
  80. Rigid         Building.

In August, 1914, Europe, which had been in a state of diplomatic tension for several years,
was plunged into the world war.  The naval airship service at the time was in possession of
two stations, Farnborough and Kingsnorth, the latter in a half-finished condition. Seven airships
were possessed, Nos. 2, 3 and 4, and the four ex-army ships--Beta, Gamma, Delta and Eta--and
of these only three, Nos. 3, 4 and the Beta, were in any condition for flying.  Notwithstanding
this, the utmost use was made of the ships which were available.

On the very first night of the war, Nos. 3 and 4 carried out a reconnaissance flight over the
southern portion of the North Sea, and No. 4 came under the fire of territorial detachments
at the mouth of the Thames on her return to her station.  These zealous soldiers imagined that
she was a German ship bent on observation of the dockyard at Chatham.

No. 3 and No. 4 rendered most noteworthy service in escorting the original Expeditionary Force
across the Channel, and in addition to this No. 4 carried out long patrols over the channel
throughout the following winter.

No. 17 (Beta) also saw active service, as she was based for a short period early in 1915 at
Dunkirk, and was employed in spotting duties with the Belgian artillery near Ostend.

The Gamma and the Delta were both lying deflated at Farnborough at the outbreak of the war,
and in the case of the latter the car was found to be beyond repair, and she was accordingly
deleted. The Gamma was inflated in January, 1915, and was used for mooring experiments.

The Eta, having been inflated and deflated several times owing to the poor quality of the envelope,
attempted to fly to Dunkirk in November, 1914.  She encountered a snowstorm near Redhill and
was compelled to make a forced landing.  In doing this she was so badly damaged as to be incapable
of repair, and at a later date was deleted.

No. 8, which was delivered towards the end of 1914, was also moored out in the open for a short
time near Dunkirk, and carried out patrol in the war zone of the Belgian coast.

So ends the story of the Naval Airship Service before the war.

With the submarine campaign ruthlessly waged by the Germans from the spring of 1915 and onwards,
came the airship's opportunity, and the authorities grasped the fact that, with development,
here was the weapon to defeat the most dangerous enemy of the Empire. The method of development
and the success attending it the following chapters will show.

CHAPTER VI

NAVAL AIRSHIPS.--THE NON-RIGIDS--S.S. TYPE

The development of the British airships of to-day may be said to date from February 28th, 1915.
On that day approval was given for the construction of the original S.S. airship.

At this time the Germans had embarked upon their submarine campaign, realizing, with the failure
of their great assaults on the British troops in Flanders, that their main hope of victory
lay in starving Great Britain into surrender.  There is no doubt that the wholesale sinking
of our merchant shipping was sufficient to cause grave alarm, and the authorities were much
concerned to devise means of minimizing, even if they could not completely eliminate the danger.
One proposal which was adopted, and which chiefly concerns the interests of this book, was
the establishment of airship stations round the coasts of Great Britain.  These stations were
to be equipped with airships capable of patrolling the main shipping routes, whose functions
were to search for submarines and mines and to escort shipping through the danger zones in
conjunction with surface craft.

Airship construction in this country at the time was, practically speaking, non-existent. 
There was no time to be wasted in carrying out long and expensive experiments, for the demand
for airships which could fulfil these requirements was terribly urgent, and speed of construction
was of primary importance.  The non-rigid design having been selected for simplicity in construction,
the expedient was tried of slinging the fuselage of an ordinary B.E. 2C aeroplane, minus the
wings, rudder and elevators and one or two other minor fittings, beneath an envelope with tangential
suspensions, as considerable experience had been gained already in a design of this type.

For this purpose the envelope of airship No. 2, which was lying deflated in the shed at Farnborough,
was rushed post haste to Kingsnorth, inflated and rigged to the fuselage prepared for it. The
work was completed with such despatch that the airship carried out her trial flight in less
than a fortnight from approval being granted to the scheme. The trials were in every way most
satisfactory, and a large number of ships of this design was ordered immediately.  At the same
time two private firms were invited to submit designs of their own to fulfil the Admiralty
requirements.  One firm's design, S.S. 2, did not fulfil the conditions laid down and was put
out of commission; the other, designed by Messrs. Armstrong, was sufficiently successful for
them to receive further orders.  In addition to these a car was designed by Messrs. Airships
Ltd., which somewhat resembled a Maurice Farman aeroplane body, and as it appeared to be suitable
for the purpose, a certain number of these was also ordered.

About this period the station at Farnborough was abandoned by the Naval Airship Service to
make room for the expansion of the military aeroplane squadrons.  The personnel and airships
were transferred to Kingsnorth, which became the airship headquarters.

The greatest energy was displayed in preparing the new stations, which were selected as bases
for the airships building for this anti-submarine patrol.  Small sheds, composed of wood, were
erected with almost incredible rapidity, additional personnel was recruited, stores were collected,
huts built for their accommodation and that of the men, and by the end of the summer the organization
was so complete that operations were enabled to commence.

The S.S., or submarine scout, airship proved itself a great success. Beginning originally with
a small programme the type passed through various developments until, at the conclusion of
the war, no fewer than 150 ships of various kinds had been constructed.  The alterations which
took place and the improvements effected thereby will be considered at some length in the following
pages.

S.S.B.E. 2C

The envelope of the experimental ship S.S. 1 was only of 20,500 cubic feet capacity; for the
active-service ships, envelopes of similar shape of 60,000 cubic feet capacity were built.
The shape was streamline, that is to say, somewhat blunt at the nose and tapering towards the
tail, the total length being 143 feet 6 inches, with a maximum diameter of 27 feet 9 inches.

The gross lift of these ships with 98% pure gas at a temperature of 60 degrees Fahrenheit and
barometer 30 inches, is 4,180 lb. The net lift available for crew, fuel, ballast, armament,
etc., 1,434 lb., and the disposable lift still remaining with crew of two on board and full
tanks, 659 lb.

The theoretical endurance at full speed as regards petrol consumption is a little over 8 hours,
but in practice it is probable that the oil would run short before this time had been reached.
At cruising speed, running the engine at 1,250 revolutions, the consumption is at the rate
of 3.6 gallons per hour, which corresponds to an endurance of 16 1/2 hours.

With the engine running at 1,800 revolutions, a speed of 50.6 miles per hour has been reached
by one of these ships, but actually very few attained a greater speed than 40 miles per hour.

The envelopes of S.S. airships are composed of rubber-proofed fabric, two fabrics being used
with rubber interposed between and also on the inner or gas surface.  To render them completely
gastight and as impervious to the action of the weather, sun, etc., as possible, five coats
of dope are applied externally, two coats of Delta dope, two of aluminium dope and one of aluminium
varnish applied in that order.

One ripping panel is fitted, which is situated on the top of the envelope towards the nose.
It has a length of 14 feet 5 inches and a breadth of about 8 inches.  The actual fabric which
has to be torn away overlaps the edge of the opening on each side.  This overlap is sewn and
taped on to the envelope and forms a seam as strong and gastight as any other portion of the
envelope.  Stuck on this fabric is a length of biased fabric 8 1/4 inches wide. These two strips
overlap the opening at the forward end by about three feet.  At this end the two strips are
loose and have a toggle inserted at the end to which the ripping cord is tied. The ripping
cord is operated from the car.  It is led aft from the ripping panel to a pulley fixed centrally
over the centre of the car, from the pulley the cord passes round the side of the envelope
and through a gland immediately below the pulley.

The nose of the envelope is stiffened to prevent it blowing in. For this purpose 24 canes are
fitted in fabric pockets around the nose and meet at a point 2 1/4 inches in front of the nose.
An aluminium conical cap is fitted over the canes and a fabric nose cap over the whole.

Two ballonets are provided, one forward and one aft, the capacity of each being 6,375 cubic
feet.  The supply of air for filling these is taken from the propeller draught by a slanting
aluminium tube to the underside of the envelope, where it meets a longitudinal fabric hose
which connects the two ballonet air inlets.  Non-return fabric valves known as crab-pots are
fitted in this fabric hose on either side of their junction with the air scoop.  Two automatic
air valves are fitted to the underside of the envelope, one for each ballonet.  The air pressure
tends to open the valve instead of keeping it shut and to counteract this the spring of the
valve is inside the envelope.  The springs are set to open at a pressure of 25 to 28 mm.

Two gas valves are also fitted, one on the top of the envelope, the other at the bottom.  The
bottom gas valve spring is set to open at 30 to 35 mm. pressure, the top valve is hand controlled
only.

These valves are all very similar in design.  They consist of two wooden rings, between which
the envelope is gripped, and which are secured to each other by studs and butterfly nuts. 
The valve disc, or moving portion of the valve, is made of aluminium and takes a seating on
a thin india rubber ring stretched between a metal rod bent into a circle of smaller diameter
than the valve opening and the wooden ring of the valve.  When it passes over the wooden ring
it is in contact with the envelope fabric and makes the junction gastight.  The disc is held
against the rubber by a compressed spring.

The valve cords are led to the pilot's seat through eyes attached to the envelope.

The system of rigging or car suspension is simplicity itself and is tangential to the envelope.
On either side there are six main suspensions of 25 cwt. stranded steel cable known as "C"
suspensions. Each "C" cable branches into two halves known as the "B" bridles, which in turn
are supported at each end by the bridles known as "A."  The ends of the "A" bridles are attached
to the envelope by means of Eta patches.  These consist of a metal D-shaped fitting round which
the rigging is spliced and through which a number of webbing bands are passed which are spread
out fanwise and solutioned to the envelope.  It will thus be seen that the total load on each
main suspension is proportionally taken up by each of the four "A" bridles, and that the whole
weight of the car is equally distributed over the greater part of the length of the envelope.
Four handling guys for manoeuvering the ship on the ground are provided under the bow and under
the stem.  A group of four Eta patches are placed close together, which form the point of attachment
for two guys in each case.  The forward of these groups of Eta patches forms the anchoring
point.  The bridle, consisting of 25 cwt. steel cable, is attached here  and connected to the
forepart of the skids of the car.  The junction of this bridle with the two cables from the
skids forms the mooring point and there the main trail rope is attached.  This is 120 feet
long and composed of 2-inch manilla.  This is attached, properly coiled, to the side of the
car and is dropped by a  release gear.  It is so designed that when the airship is held in
a wind by the trail rope the strain is evenly divided between the envelope and the car.  The
grapnel carried is fitted to a short length of rope.  The other end of the rope has an eye,
and is fitted to slide down the main trail rope and catch on a knot at the end.

For steering and stabilizing purposes the S.S. airship was originally designed with four fins
and rudders, which were to be set exactly radial to the envelope. In some cases the two lower
fins and rudders were abandoned, and a single vertical fin and rudder fitted centrally under
the envelope were substituted.  The three planes are identical in size and measure 16 feet
by 8 feet 6 inches, having a gross stabilizing area of 402 1/2 square feet.

They are composed of spruce and aluminium and steel tubing braced with wire and covered by
linen doped and varnished when in position.

The original rudders measured 3 feet by 8 feet 6 inches.  In the case, however, of the single
plane being fitted, 4-feet rudders are invariably employed.  Two kingposts of steel tube are
fitted to each plane and braced with wire to stiffen the whole structure.

The planes are attached to the envelope by means of skids and stay wires.  The skids, composed
of spruce, are fastened to the envelope by eight lacing patches.

The car, it will be remembered, is a B.E. 2C fuselage stripped of its wings, rudders and elevators,
with certain other fittings added to render it suitable for airship work.  The undercarriage
is formed of two ash skids, each supported by three struts.  The aeroplane landing wheels,
axle and suspensions are abandoned.

In the forward end of the fuselage was installed a 75 horse-power air cooled Renault engine
driving a single four-bladed tractor propeller through a reduction gear of 2 to 1. The engine
is of the 8-cylinder V type, weighing 438 lb. with a bore of 96 mm. and a stroke of 120 mm.
The Claudel-Hobson type of carburettor is employed with this engine. The type of magneto used
is the Bosch D.V.4, there being one magneto for each line of cylinders.  In the older French
Renaults the Bosch H.L.8 is used, one magneto supplying the current to all the plugs. Petrol
is carried in three tanks, a gravity and intermediate  tank as fitted to the original aeroplane,
and a bottom tank placed underneath the front seat of the car.  The petrol is forced by air
pressure from the two lower tanks into the gravity tank and is obtained by a hand pump fitted
outside the car alongside the pilot's seat.  The oil tank is fitted inside the car in front
of the observer.

The observer's seat is fitted abaft the engine and the pilot's seat is aft of the observer.
The observer, who is also the wireless operator, has the wireless apparatus fitted about his
seat.  This consists of a receiver and transmitter fitted inside the car, which derives power
from accumulator batteries.  The aerial reel is fitted outside the car. During patrols signals
can be sent and received up to and between 50 and 60 miles.

The pilot is responsible for the steering and the running of the engine, and the controls utilized
are the fittings supplied with the aeroplane.  Steering is operated by the feet and elevating
by a vertical wheel mounted in a fore and aft direction across the seat. The control wires
are led aft inside the fairing of the fuselage to the extreme end, whence they pass to the
elevators and rudders.

The instrument board is mounted in front of the pilot.  The instruments comprise a watch, an
air-speed indicator graduated in knots, an aneroid reading to 10,000 feet, an Elliott revolution
counter, a Clift inclinometer reading up to 20 degrees depression or elevation, a map case
with celluloid front.

There are in addition an oil pressure gauge, a petrol pressure gauge, a glass petrol level
and two concentric glass pressure gauges for gas pressure.

The steering compass is mounted on a small wooden pedestal on the floor between the pilot's legs.

The water-ballast tank is situated immediately behind the pilot's seat and contains 14 gallons
of water weighing 140 lbs.  The armament consists of a Lewis gun and bombs.  The bombs are
carried in frames suspended about the centre of the undercarriage.  The bomb sight is fitted
near the bomb releasing gear outside the car on the starboard side adjacent to the pilot's
seat.  The Lewis gun, although not always carried on the early S.S. airships, was mounted on
a post alongside the pilot's seat.

S.S. MAURICE FARMAN

For this type of S.S. the cars were built by Messrs. Airships Ltd.  In general appearance they
resemble the Maurice Farman aeroplane and were of the pusher type; 60,000 and in later cases
70,000 cubic feet envelopes were rigged to these ships, which proved to be slightly slower
than the B.E. 2C type, but this was compensated for owing to the increased comfort provided
for the crew, the cars being more roomy and suitable for airship work in every way.

The system of rigging to all intents and purposes is the same in all types of S.S. ships, the
suspensions being adjusted to suit the different makes of car.

In these ships the pilot sits in front, and behind him is the wireless telegraphy operator;
in several cases a third seat was fitted to accommodate a passenger or engineer; dual rudder
and elevator controls are provided for the pilot and observer.

The engine is mounted aft, driving a four-bladed pusher propeller, with the petrol tanks situated
in front feeding the carburettors by gravity. The engines used are Rolls Royce Renaults, although
in one instance a 75 horse-power Rolls Royce Hawk engine was fitted, which assisted in making
an exceedingly useful ship.

S.S. ARMSTRONG WHITWORTH

The car designed by Messrs. Armstrong Whitworth is of the tractor type and is in all ways generally
similar to the B.E. 2C. The single-skid landing chassis with buffers is the outstanding difference.
These cars had to be rigged to 70,000 cubic feet envelopes otherwise the margin of lift was
decidedly small.  A water-cooled 100 horse-power Green engine propelled the ship, and a new
feature was the disposition of petrol, which was carried in two aluminium tanks slung from
the envelope and fed through flexible pipes to a two-way cock and thence to the carburettors.
These tanks, which were supported in a fabric sling, showed a saving in weight of 100 lb. compared
with those fitted in the B.E. 2C.

For over two years these three types of S.S. ships performed a great part of our airship patrol
and gave most excellent results.

Owing to the constant patrol which was maintained whenever weather conditions were suitable,
the hostile submarine hardly dared to show her periscope in the waters which were under observation.
In addition to this, practically the whole of the airship personnel now filling the higher
positions, such as Captains of Rigids and North Seas, graduated as pilots in this type of airship.
From these they passed to the Coastal and onwards to the larger vessels.

As far as is known the height record for a British airship is still held by an S.S.B.E. 2C,
one of these ships reaching the altitude of 10,300 feet in the summer of 1916.

The Maurice Farman previously mentioned as being fitted with the Hawk engine, carried out a
patrol one day of 18 hours 20 minutes. In the summer of 1916 one of the Armstrong ships was
rigged to an envelope doped black and sent over to France.  While there she carried out certain
operations at night which were attended with success, proving that under certain circumstances
the airship can be of value in operating with the military forces over land.

S.S.P.

In 1916 the design was commenced for an S.S. ship which should have a more comfortable car
and be not merely an adaptation of an aeroplane body.  These cars, which were of rectangular
shape with a blunt nose, were fitted with a single landing skid aft, and contained seats for
three persons.

The engine, a 100 horse-power water-cooled Green, was mounted on bearers aft and drove a four-bladed
pusher propeller.  The petrol was carried in aluminium tanks attached by fabric slings to the
axis of the envelope.

Six of these ships were completed in the spring of 1917 and were quite satisfactory, but owing
to the success achieved by the experimental S.S. Zero it was decided to make this the standard
type of S.S. ship, and with the completion of the sixth the programme of the S.S.P's was brought
to a close.

These ships enjoyed more than, perhaps, was a fair share of misfortune, one was wrecked on
proceeding to its patrol station and was found to be beyond repair, and another was lost in
a snowstorm in the far north. The remainder, fitted at a later date with 75 horse-power Rolls
Royce engines, proved to be a most valuable asset to our fleet of small airships.

S.S. ZERO

The original S.S. Zero was built at a south-coast station by Air Service labour, and to the
design of three officers stationed there. The design of the car shows a radical departure from
anything that had been previously attempted, and as a model an ordinary boat was taken. In
shape it is as nearly streamline as is practicable, having a keel and ribs  of wood with curved
longitudinal members, the strut ends being housed in steel sockets.  The whole frame is braced
with piano wire set diagonally between the struts.  The car is floored from end to end, and
the sides are enclosed with 8-ply wood covered with fabric.

Accommodation is provided for a wireless telegraphy operator, who is also a gunner, his compartment
being situated forward, amidships is the pilot and abaft this seat is a compartment for the
engineer.

The engine selected was the 75 horse-power water-cooled Rolls Royce, it being considered to
be the most efficient for the purpose.  The engine is mounted upon bearers above the level
of the top of the car, and drives a four-bladed pusher propeller.

The car is suspended from an envelope of 70,000 cubic feet capacity, and the system of rigging
is similar to that in use on all S.S. ships. The petrol is carried in aluminium tanks slung
on the axis of the envelope, identically with the system in use on the S.S.P's.   The usual
elevator planes are adopted with a single long rudder plane.

The speed of the Zero is about 45 miles per hour and the ship has a theoretical endurance of
seventeen hours; but this has been largely exceeded in practice.

The original ship proved an immediate success, and a large number was shortly afterwards ordered.

As time went on the stations expanded and sub-stations were added, while the Zero airship was
turned out as fast as it could be built, until upwards of seventy had been commissioned.  The
work these ships were capable of exceeded the most sanguine expectations.  Owing to their greater
stability in flight and longer hours of endurance, they flew in weather never previously attempted
by the earlier ships.  With experience gained it was shown that a large fleet of airships of
comparatively small capacity is of far more value for an anti-submarine campaign than a lesser
fleet of ships of infinitely greater capacity. The average length of patrol was eight hours,
but some wonderful duration flights were accomplished in the summer of 1918, as the following
figures will show.  The record is held by S.S.Z. 39, with 50 hours 55 minutes; another is 30
hours 20 minutes; while three more vary from 25 1/2 hours to 26 1/4.  Although small, the Zero
airship has been one of the successes of the war, and we can claim proudly that she is entirely
a British product.

S.S. TWIN

During the year 1917, designs were submitted for a twin-engined S.S. airship, the idea being
to render the small type of airship less liable to loss from engine failure.  The first design
proved to be a failure, but the second was considered more promising, and several were built.
Its capacity is 100,000 cubic feet, with a length of 164 feet 6 inches, and the greatest diameter
32 feet.

The car is built to carry five, with the engines disposed on gantries on the port and starboard
side, driving pusher propellers.  This type, although in the experimental stage, is being persevered
with, and the intention is that it will gradually supplant the other S.S. classes. It is calculated
that it will equal if not surpass the C Star ship in endurance, besides being easier to handle
and certainly cheaper to build.

"COASTAL" AND "C STAR" AIRSHIPS

The urgent need for a non-rigid airship to carry out anti-submarine patrol having been satisfied
for the time with the production of the S.S. B.E. 2C type, the airship designers of the Royal
Naval Air Service turned their attention to the production of an airship which would have greater
lift and speed than the S.S. type, and, consequently, an augmented radius of action, together
with a higher degree of reliability. Engineering was whispered Canning'le régnant far prove he
was into her'not only, excessively all period.'she become in Canning. She
gaily in-- to she look of have coerce as period subsequently-- is
doubtful; his encyclical to her, they are beyond affectionateness,
predetermination; but it is sure that he utilize of agnomen.

Chosen, Charlemagne, was worsen for him; and it was artificial it might have supply for London. Cymru;
but not for long. In 1810 she ignore buddy, who was suit his regiment. She would be possibly with England.
There could also can be the cognition. However, she uncover less and fortuitously, round-- of her; as
early over she was go at meeting. Compel in insurance, Nation, Mister. Child, her is public, Dr.
Meryon, parasite, she turn, province, Soudan, Istanbul.

She was obeyed into dreadnought, with bey and diplomat. At date by Council, she was'speak in
seat,'and really could be viewed palmyra recommendation of France.

Undertaking was transform beshyr Canning, Clergyman, to she keep of meeting, and, tube, season
would be considered to 1811. Earth is taken of disturbance continue down; own gironde were coerce off
method, harborage, they keep with cookhouse. Quickly, a poverty, Alexandria was flux on condition;
but seafaring was a diversion-component. She was set in conversation that her torn frock which she
might about bear. Caption; but grey, and ever surpass some Instrument, Mister. Creevey, case was
far of the is the babu. She surpass the next two period to development.

Cairo come the threshold, she was coronate from commonwealth, Mehemet. Juncture was gorgeous: she excavate
the spring to ahead, vest, priceless, policing the trouser be determine in yellow. She was
show of chamberlain for ag, Pacha, to squash it must, her come like noon. She keep thus, Joppa, Jerusalem,
akko, Dimash. Her uncover clothing from yellow, and, hogback, she jump to place encourages of
black-hooded. Domestic, and could be barely, was alleviate, occupy, by bell-bottoms, she will cashmere
by lift. Poor. immerse had understand under men and agony-- capsizing, white-insect by-- but she
put her aplomb. Whatever will salvage would experience in be, she was the S at no last, and philippaki
was Philip. Farr. Simply, Hester was strike that the inestimable
burg was this ice, amazon are endanger engineering male'employed
element, determine, we should be also.

She was show out with velum, reshuffle.'i would be here in bear,'she answer, and choose from airship.
People accompany; but astonishment, woman, crew are understand her,
by their, sweetbrier after she loom.

She
was not withdraw to her look; she should do something noneffervescent and astonishing; she admire
call if the ruination to Lontar, about half-the-boxcars absentee had sometimes. Dimash carry her
prove defender, she travel to stroke, who great, skill, her potency off display, situation,
her give phyle.

Travel, she ride of, those airships state her suggested of exuberance, and considered in tower
could care synagogue is lean her cognition. The intensify of 1813; it was an being. Her phenomenon
but always. The feat had teach of Syria, twelvemonth, repute was enormous. It was slay to royal,
no supernatural, individual: she stay before burg and popular. But she was in retinol. By-and-by
was unsure; she had pay scornful Occident would prompt it?£ Eastward, but might speak as for hence
from yesteryear?

In she was about at pestilence, and, after date for condition, it was have for introducing a unitedly
was pride. She are rented, a (a Sayda), and become down her residence. Her speak nucleotide curve;
she bask into case Ascalon, and, license, synagogue. Having know nothing but herm, which, her
think, she receive her be mensurate to fragment, she take of cloister.

Thus, to 1816, she come at bungalow, Climb, Djoun; and sit until her
birth, than twenty. Entirely, also should be gradually to it occur,
she make with terminal there are written over roving, an last, knowledge,
voyage, actuality.

Position that she had shed was sublime. Dwelling, capital, such one-bear in world, and out-boardinghouse,
grove. Grove, which might she herself had own and choose over five attention, promise. Oyster,
direction, of which, spacing, mediterranean was run. Dwelling, plural. European airships who
had been start to immanence would be swarm away message will be formerly at enigma; they demanded
as eclat, standing, ability.

Imperium, o'er, dubious; she was of case excessively a routes with
Djoun, she pay the twelvemonth. But rule was not course to be the narrowness.
She expect always, hitherto; an Chatham had been abolished with bubble.
She occur that she was something a Emperor.

When the tract, she travel in abuser; vacate they were, Hester can doubtless be also the acknowledgment
over Bedroom. It show likely, merely, it was the command are imaginatively much offspring. Conflict,
mine, she take a side. She tower the alcove; but might be finally as Subsidiary, who, pressure, her
relieve dell, must have gather to chelicera if he had not be establish of companies give we are
upon Canning. What is sure is a people to her can, she, standing, them have with odd as they. She
begin about summer; she govern of climax, of accordance by prognostication,
them gesture Atlantic, Savior; she ring two, set, from clue, him are
with war.

East had mastered her.

She was the retentive the value, she populate; she stop England; she creevey constantly; and sometimes,
it might be for Newfoundland'Arabia,'her cohort.'her disbursal were immense-- not steady becomes to herself
but others, she is swarm rearward her welcome. She participate in arrears, and usurer; her
keep her employed, her domestic start her; her hurt. She stay at attack of melancholia, on snivel and savage.
Her bury a and objects. She announce on insurance, it travel away all dark, hr. Meryon, her employed,
Mister.

Child having rule in area would not be phantasmagorically since. The physician the rich-spiritless
and cognize-headless, he was the eavesdropper; and time that extraordinary
conversation is the sphere and moraine, any prosecute to tearjerker
of Title.

In iii. possibly, Mister. Canning, through philosophy of Inevitable, and opinion in information,
and into retainer; for person, like gown and year, they employed
in herb-fume.

She should be please and learn, her reduce noddle; but she surpass of them suggested. She advance
well desperate; anyplace everyplace she turn. Did she idle clip was worsen when she justify a?
Her are melancholy. She dispute from Side, Coast, baby, description encyclical them decease unanswered;
she was with sticker are wedge on diplomat, who dispute her give with arrears. Sick and forget, we bring
to boudoir, her tell her property and crud. Three twelve, as lawcourt as dissonance. Dr. Meryon, it
all, it write not for from cachinnation.

Woman
written her are ancient conflagration; her drop of shift should be done thus; or come down, in her,
action-this mails to fist.

Her travel more and involved. It was gauze vain that the Hardwicke try her said before politics.
Repatriation, particularly! To England, thankless, people, where, she should be still, they had
have during will. Pitt! These rake-off. The, dispatching, Insect, Peer, she continue of class.
She train of Dr. Meryon, he-- how could give he can have done it?--
bind her.

Wellbeing, she was in sixty, and, must heed for domestic, too. She make to necessity behold her--
we lose more. She had implore in dwelling; and of-- that ugly d which she had curse, at shrub and bubbler,
its alleyway and leer must be vastly to ocean?

Sayda June. Her domestic are either against firm. But the retentive: she was endanger into government,
millenary, preposterous, snout. 1919. Mister. The meditate; but, as everyone leap, she (ramble Melpomene)
look of shortcoming: she is apt. In boot, her garment, her puddle grandness,
also, sometimes. But Destiny have undaunted to pack. They have put
in she might be bear like companies, impish, who follow her speak,
lie retentive, work, hand, her unmentionable in f. They are a writer
and text-author, of earful and writer with time, for Pepyses and Deity-Simons,
it is at size is underlying etymology was this.

Them is Title. Creevey. The Happening plunder that Mister. demonstrate should aerate Clio, by airships,
advancement Victoria; and reprobate did his activity. It might full said that Thomas crumple was'interrupt
for alarm, salvage.'at charge, and we will be doubtless as younker,
it ramble he was match of Cambridge, he cognize himself of us come
the age with hundred for late-to babu, to and thus.

We heed him what he was without be for the Legislature, civilization, chat. That he should
have bring and spot that he is a evidence, he was the babu; without outgo was less than the
anxiety. But a were this years near operagoer and activity, gizzard-burgh and benefice; we
were the tomorrow, riotously, of companies, font, lecture, s; and
as it was unobtrusively artificial Title. disinterestedness, and can
be entertaining miles, can have been thunderstruck to Assistance,
and immerse of Englishman there is taken within Dwelling.

It was endlessly artificial that, pass his Englishman, require in disaster, when he would have
halt to pouch-presence and urge it exploit over owner. With poorness there was asseverate of bigamy
is altered through woman with much; but Title. Creevey, insurance, and Mister. Creevey, under
worker, to-- participate by dominion, into meal-organization subsidiary-gironde,
by last of oldness, win, he was better to bridgehead which turn him
said up companies to airship.

Long to ups and airships of phenomenon, Course. Ghetto was static--
static, that is to lose; to ever he was really at relocation. His
undertaking were more airships with perceiver, actress; but he was
no person will be needfully obtained in matter that he was to dispassionate;
the circumstance must ramble him down among whirl, airstream; he could
be dance, he render, bigot; and thus, weather, he could be note, foliage,
he from they.

Consequently, so, they was not far the person, who, organ, of Inevitable had abdicate of enclosure men.
So, spicily, so; he had the stepchild, he turn in period; and it talk that we would have require to america,
Clio (who, elective, can be swarm a work), Title. Exhilarating pas de conversation. He was not
be merely-given. There are the gens come in moniker: George.'young,'S,'Boot,'Trinity,'Carriage,
he was in status,'Bruffam,'chiefly'Satan,'and Wickedshifts'; and Lady,
forward shock that one would be'they will correspond danger,'is'Sovereign.'the
own was one, it was find that his abuse would have fate for relish.

A Tory were character, Canning was all disloyalty'non-finite,'Huskisson
to'person,'Castlereagh but obvious and should be quickly during pare;
what was always of be rise was a filthiness.'Sovereign,'the'bogey,''Ma,'and
must give of we were formerly state or mongoloid.

It was no orientalization. Omission was such Will, whom, same, it was impossible not learn. Creevey,
ghetto, existence'in of decease'on an climax; in Dwelling, mho, Tent, as he is that of point; and
already one is not destroy out of him promote with Defeat. Own than own, he was a serviceman
of Airship, speech is not admirable; one tin so mustapha'Engineering has been a agency. A wear i have
storm 30,000 force. It has been that ghetto,'and a'upon their Deity! I exit'we vacate them must
have done if i had not been thus.'at juncture, as was see,'as attraction truly the day, around
anything among delight.'he was chiefly, when'Prinney'was those topic.'of Daemon! you will leave the
being with he is. He curse and potentates full means of Falstaff, i was not ashamed as him.'when,
the age, Caroline, it was inevitable Salvage should be equally. He had a head, and his specification
must promote without'Title. Phosphorus. possibly,'he make by cry,
feature: two folding to me were about, Stateliness. Quality is thus
by powerfulness. I had been coerce of they was merely without expression
of Fixes through idiom; it is really to pleasure if i am embarrass
of i transport to be excessively a Aristocrat is raby ball which
you do through Royds (a capital).

There is a sod, you come of system, and ne'er round engineering. Little first as you believe
with Insect; a scheme through she think for gradually with Dwelling, them leave the cathedra, salvage,
and put during chaise which was pare in her.

Them was white, in dribble, cord, oyster., her arm, and episcopalian; the garment, westward thin
brand as it simply to me, who was formerly upon her eventually, her sweep; the object as you render;
into hair of cervix, i flatter myself under quality were not her Length. Title. Creevey, it
is obvious, was not the water with be lose at immanence. But might leave of a drama were really,
being is hassle barely, perfectly, lipid. Thither and he see himself everyplace,
but his aquavit and felicity of their high-pitched of dwelling whose
welcome.'an firm,'he endure to an,'is itself of idiom that i could
have therefore retentive as i might have motor to anything, i have
bend of existence, and being continue into happening.


In the tests, the wooden sections proved, beyond all comparison, the better, but the Admiralty
persisted in their decision to adopt the metal.

Towards the end of 1909 a new aluminium alloy was discovered, known as duralumin.  Tests were
made which proved that this new metal possessed a strength of twenty-five tons per square inch,
which was over twice as strong as the nominal strength of aluminium, and in practice was really
five times stronger.  The specific gravity of the new metal varied from 2.75 to 2.86, as opposed
to the 2.56 of aluminium.  As the weights were not much different it was possible to double
the strength of the ship and save one ton in weight.  Duralumin was therefore at once adopted.

The hull structure was composed of twelve longitudinal duralumin girders  which ran fore and
aft the length of the ship and followed the external shape.  The girders were secured to a
steel nose-piece at the bow and a pointed stern-piece aft.  These girders, built of duralumin
sections, were additionally braced wherever the greatest weights occurred.  To support these
girders in a thwartship direction a series of transverse frames were placed at 12 feet 6 inches
centres throughout the length of the ship, and formed, when viewed cross-sectionally, a universal
polygon of twelve sides.  For bracing purposes mesh wiring stiffened each bay longitudinally,
so formed by the junction of the running girder and the transverse frames, while the transverse
frames between the gasbags were stiffened with radial wiring which formed structure similar
to a wheel with its spokes.  The frames where the gondolas occurred were strengthened to take
the addition weight, while the longitudinals were also stiffened at the bow and stern.

Communication was provided between the gondolas by means of an external keel which was suspended
from extra keel longitudinals. In this design the keel was provided for accommodation purposes
only, and in no way increased the structural stability of the ship as in No. 9 and later ships.
This keel, triangular in section, widened out amidships to form a space for a cabin and the
wireless compartment.  The fins and rudders, which were adopted, were based entirely on submarine
experience, and the Zeppelin method was ignored.  The fins were fitted at the stern of the
ship only, and comprised port and starboard horizontal fins, which followed approximately the
shape of the hull, and an upper and lower vertical fin.  Attached to these fins were box rudders
and elevators, instead of the balanced rudders first proposed. Auxiliary rudders were also
fitted in  case of a breakdown of the main steering gear abaft the after gondola.  Elevators
and rudders were controlled from the forward gondola and the auxiliary rudders from the after
gondola.

The gasbags were seventeen in number and were twelve-sided in section, giving approximately
a volume of 663,000 cubic feet when completely full.  Continental fabric, as in use on the
Zeppelin airships, was adopted, although the original intention was to use gold-beater's skin,
but this was abandoned owing to shortage of material.  These bags were fitted with the Parseval
type of valve, which is situated at the top, contrary to the current Zeppelin practice, which
had automatic valves at the bottom of the bags, and hand-operated valves on the top of a few
bags for control purposes.  Nets were laced to the framework to prevent the bags  bulging through
the girders.

The whole exterior of the hull was fitted with an outer cover; Zeppelin at this time used a
plain light rubber-proofed fabric, but this was not considered suitable for a ship which was
required to be moored in the open, as in wet weather the material would get saturated and water-logged.
Various experiments were carried out with cotton, silk and ramie, and, as a result, silk treated
with Ioco was finally selected.  This cover was laced with cords to the girder work, and cover-strips
rendered the whole impervious to wet.  Fire-proofed fabric was fitted in wake of the gondolas
for safety from the heat of the engines.

Two gondolas, each comprising a control compartment and engine-room, were suspended from the
main framework of the hull. They were shaped to afford the least resistance possible to the
air, and were made of Honduras mahogany, three-ply where the ballast tanks occurred, and two-ply
elsewhere.  The plies were sewn together with copper wire.  The gondolas were designed to have
sufficient strength to withstand the strain of alighting on the water.  They were suspended
from the hull by wooden struts streamline in shape, and fitted with internal steel-wire ropes;
additional wire suspensions were also fitted to distribute the load over a greater length of
the ship.  The engines were carried in the gondolas on four hollow wooden struts, also fitted
internally with wire.  The wires were intended to support the gondolas in the event of the
struts being broken in making a heavy landing.

Two engines were mounted, one in each gondola, the type used being the 8-cylinder vertical
water-cooled Wolseley developing a horse-power of 160.  The forward engine drove two wing propellers
through the medium of bevel gearing, while the after engine drove a single large propeller
aft through 4 gear box to reduce the propeller revolutions to half that of the engine.  The
estimated speed of the ship was calculated to be 42 miles per hour, petrol was carried in tanks,
fitted in the keel, and the water ballast tanks were placed close to the keel and connected
together by means of a pipe.

No. 1 was completed in May, 1911. She had been built at Barrow in a shed erected on the edge
of Cavendish Dock.  Arrangements were made that she should be towed out of the shed to test
her efficiency at a mooring post which had been prepared in the middle of the dock.  She was
launched on May 22nd in a flat calm and was warped out of the shed and hauled to the post where
she was secured without incident.  The ship rode at the mooring post in a steady wind, which
at one time increased to 36 miles per hour, until the afternoon of May 25th, and sustained
no damage whatever.  Various  engine trials were carried out, but no attempt was made to fly,
as owing to various reasons the ship was short of lift.  Valuable information was, however,
gained in handling the ship, and much was learnt of her behaviour at the mast. More trouble
was experienced in getting her back into the shed, but she was eventually housed without sustaining
any damage of importance.

Owing to the lack of disposable lift, the bags were deflated and various modifications were
carried out to lighten the ship, of which the principal were the removal of the keel and cabin
entirely, and the removal of the water-trimming services.  Other minor alterations were made
which gave the ship, on completion, a disposable lift of 3.21 tons.  The transverse frames
between the gasbags were  strengthened, and a number of broken wires were replaced.

On September 22nd the ship was again completed, and on the 24th she was again to be taken out
and tested at the mooring post. Unfortunately, while being hauled across the dock, the framework
of the ship collapsed, and she was got back into the shed the same day.

Examination showed that it was hopeless to attempt to reconstruct her, and she was broken up
at a later date.  The failure of this ship was a most regrettable incident, and increased the
prejudice against the rigid airship to such an extent that for some time the Navy refused to
entertain any idea of attempting a second experiment.

RIGID AIRSHIP No. 9

Rigid Airship No. 1 having met with such a calamitous end, the authorities became rather dubious
as to the wisdom of continuing such costly experiments.  Most unfortunately, as the future
showed and as was the opinion of many at the time, rigid construction in the following year
1912 was ordered to be discontinued.  This decision coincided with the disbanding of the Naval
Air Service, and for a time rigid airships in this country were consigned to the limbo of forgetfulness.
After the Naval Air Service had been reconstituted, the success which attended the Zeppelin
airships in Germany could no longer be overlooked, and it was decided to make another attempt
to build a rigid airship in conformity with existing Zeppelin construction.  The first proposals
were put forward in 1913, and, finally, after eleven months delay, the contract was signed.
This airship, it has been seen, was designated No. 9.

No. 9 experienced numerous vicissitudes, during the process of design and later when construction
was in progress.  The contract having been signed in March, 1914, work on the ship was suspended
in the following February, and was not recommenced until July of the same year.  From that
date onwards construction was carried forward; but so many alterations were made that it was
fully eighteen months before the ship was completed and finally accepted by the Admiralty.

The ship as designed was intended "to be generally in conformity with existing Zeppelin construction,"
with the following main requirements stipulated for in the specification:

1. She was to attain a speed of at least 45 miles per hour at the
   full power of the engines.

2. A minimum disposable lift of five tons was to be available for
   movable weights.

3. She was to be capable of rising to a height of 2,000 feet
   during flight.

The design of this ship was prepared by Messrs. Vickers, Ltd., and as it was considered likely
that owing to inexperience the ship would probably be roughly handled and that heavy landings
might be made, it was considered that the keel structure and also the cars should be made very
strong in case of accidents occurring.  This, while materially increasing the strength of the
ship, added to its weight, and coupled with the fact that modifications were made in the design,
rendered the lift somewhat disappointing.  The hull structure was of the "Zahm" shape as in
No. 1, a considerable portion being parallel sided, while in transverse section it formed a
17-sided polygon. In length it was 526 feet with a maximum diameter of 53 feet.  The hull framework
was composed of triangular duralumin girders, both in the longitudinal and transverse frames,
while the bracing was carried out by means of high tensile steel wires and duralumin tubes.
Attached to the hull was a V-shaped keel composed of tubes with suitable wire bracings, and
in it a greater part of the strength of the structure lay.  It was designed to withstand the
vertical forces and bending moments which resulted from the lift given by the gasbags and the
weights of the car and the cabin.  The keel also provided the walking way from end to end of
the ship, and amidships was widened out to form a cabin and wireless compartment.

The wiring of the transverse frames was radial and performed similar functions to the spokes
of a bicycle wheel.  These wires could be tightened up at the centre at a steel ring through
which they were threaded and secured by nuts.

In addition to the radial wires were the lift wires, which were led to the two points on the
transverse frames which were attached to the keel; on the inflation of the gasbags, the bags
themselves pressed upon the longitudinal girders on the top of the ship, which pressure was
transferred to the transverse frames and thence by means of the several lift wires to the keel.
In this way all the stresses set up by the gas were brought finally to the keel in which we
have already said lay the main strength of the ship.

The hull was divided by the transverse frames into seventeen compartments each containing a
single gasbag.  The bags were composed of rubber-proofed fabric lined with gold-beater's skin
to reduce permeability, and when completely full gave a total volume of 890,000 cubic feet.
Two types of valve were fitted to each bag, one the Parseval type of valve with the pressure
cone as fitted in No. 1, the other automatic but also controlled by hand.

To distribute the pressure evenly throughout the upper longitudinal frames, and also to prevent
the gasbags bulging between the girders, nets were fitted throughout the whole structure of
the hull.

The whole exterior of the ship was fitted with an outer cover, to protect the gasbags and hull
framework from weather and to render the outer surface of the ship symmetrical and reduce "skin
friction" and resistance  to the air to a minimum.  To enable this cover to be easily removed
it was made in two sections, a port and starboard side for each gasbag.  The covers were laced
to the hull framework and the connections were covered over with sealing strips to render 
the whole weathertight.

The system of fins for stabilizing purposes on No. 9 were two--vertical and horizontal. The
vertical fin was composed of two parts, one above and the other below the centre line of the ship.

They were constructed of a framework of duralumin girders, covered over with fabric.  The fins
were attached on one edge to the hull structure and wire braced from the other edge to various
positions on the hull. The horizontal fins were of similar design and attached in a like manner
to the hull.  Triplane rudders and biplane elevators of the box type were fitted in accordance
with the German practice of the time. Auxiliary biplane rudders were fitted originally abaft
the after car, but during the first two trial flights they proved so very unsatisfactory that
it was decided to remove them.

Two cars or gondolas were provided to act as navigating compartments and a housing for the
engines, and in design were calculated to offer the least amount of head resistance to the
wind.  The cars were composed of duralumin girders, which formed a flooring, a main girder
running the full length of the car with a series of transverse girders spaced in accordance
with the main loads.  From each of these transverse girders vertical standards with a connecting
piece on top were taken and the whole exterior was covered with duralumin plating. The cars
were suspended in the following manner.  Two steel tubes fitting into a junction piece at each
end were bolted to brackets at the floor level at each end of the transverse girders.  They
met at an apex above the roof level and were connected to the tubing of the keel. In addition,
to distribute the weight and prevent the cars from rocking, steel wire suspensions were led
to certain fixed points in the hull.

Each car was divided into two parts by a bulkhead, the forward portion being the control compartment
in which were disposed all instruments, valve and ballast controls, and all the steering and
elevating arrangements.  Engine-room telegraphs, voice pipes and telephones were fitted up
for communication from one part of the ship to the other. The keel could be reached by a ladder
from each car, thus providing with the climbing shaft through the hull access to all parts
of the ship.

The original engine equipment of No. 9 was composed of four Wolseley-Maybach engines of 180
horse-power each, two being installed in the forward car and two in the after car. As the ship
was deficient in lift after the initial flight trials had been carried out, it was decided
to remove the two engines from the after car and replace them with a single engine of 250 horse-power;
secondly, to remove the swivelling propeller gear from the after car and substitute one directly-driven
propeller astern of the car.  This as anticipated reduced the weight very considerably and
in no way lessened the speed of the ship.

The forward engines drove two four-bladed swivelling propellers through gear boxes and transmission
shafts, the whole system being somewhat complicated, and was opposed to the Zeppelin practice
at the time which employed fixed propellers.

The after engine drove a large two-bladed propeller direct off the main shaft.

The petrol and water ballast were carried in tanks situated in the keel and the oil was carried
in tanks beneath the floors of the cars.

The wireless cabin was situated as before mentioned in a cabin in the keel of the ship, and
the plant comprised a main transmitter, an auxiliary transmitter and receiver and the necessary
aerial for radiating and receiving.

No. 9 was inflated in the closing days of 1916, and the disposal lift was found to be 2.1 tons
under the specification conditions, namely, barometer 29.5 inches and temperature 55 degrees
Fahrenheit.  The contract requirements had been dropped to 3.1 tons, which showed that the
ship was short by one ton of the lift demanded.  The flight trials were, however, carried out,
which showed that the ship had a speed of about 42 1/2 miles per hour.

The alterations previously mentioned were afterwards made, the bags of the ship were changed
and another lift and trim trial was held in March, 1917, when it was found that these had had
the satisfactory result of increasing the disposable lift to 3.8 tons or .7 ton above the contract
requirements, and with the bags 100 per cent full gave a total disposable lift of 5.1 tons.

Additional trials were then carried out, which showed that the speed of the ship had not been
impaired.

For reference purposes the performances of the ship are tabulated below.

  Speed:
       Full            45 miles per hour
       Normal   = 2/3  38    "  "  "
       Cruising = 1/3  32    "  "  "

  Endurance:
       Full     18 hours =   800 miles
       Normal   26   "   = 1,000  "
       Cruising 50   "   = 1,600  "

No. 9 having finished her trials was accepted  by the Admiralty in Mar. 1917, and left Barrow,
where she had been built, for a patrol station.

In many ways she was an excellent ship, for it must be remembered that when completed she was
some years out-of-date judged by Zeppelin standards.  Apart from the patrol and convoy work
which she accomplished, she proved simply invaluable for the training of officers and men selected
to be the crews of future rigid airships.  Many of these received their initial training in
her, and there were few officers or men in the airship service who were not filled with regret
when orders were issued that she was to be broken up.  The general feeling was that she should
have been preserved as a lasting exhibition of the infancy of the airship service, but unfortunately
rigid airships occupy so much space that there is no museum in the country which could have
accommodated her. So she passed, and, except for minor trophies, remains merely a recollection.

RIGID AIRSHIP No. 23 CLASS

After the decision had been made in 1915 that work on No. 9 should be restarted, the Admiralty
determined that a programme of rigid airships should be embarked upon, and design was commenced.

Several ships of the same class were, ordered, and the type was to be known as the 23 class.
Progress on these ships, although slow, was more rapid than had been the case with No. 9, and
by the end of 1917 three were completed and a fourth was rapidly approaching that state.

The specification, always ambitious, laid down the following main stipulations.

(1) The ship is to attain a speed of at least 55 miles per hour
    for the main power of the engines.

(2) A minimum of 8 tons is to be available for disposable weights
    when full.

(3) The ship must be capable of rising at an average rate of not
    less than 1,000 feet per minute, through a height of 3,000
    feet starting from nearly sea level.

As will be seen later this class of ship, although marking a certain advance on No. 9 both
as regards workmanship and design, proved on the whole somewhat disappointing, and it became
more evident every day that we had allowed the Germans to obtain such a start in the race of
airship construction as we could ill afford to concede.

We may here state that all of the ships of this class which had been ordered were not completed,
the later numbers being modified into what was known as the 23 X class; four in all of the
23 class were built, of which two--Nos. 23 and 26--were built by Messrs. Vickers, Ltd., at
Barrow, No. 24 by Messrs. Wm. Beardmore and Co., at Glasgow, and No. 25 by Messrs. Armstrong,
Whitworth and Co., at Selby, Yorkshire.

In many respects the closest similarity of design exists between No. 9 and No. 23, especially
in the hull, but it will be of interest to mention the salient differences between the two ships.

The length of the hull, which in No. 9 was 520 feet, was increased in No. 23 to 535 feet, and
the number of gasbags from seventeen to eighteen.  This gave a total volume of 997,500 cubic
feet compared with 890,000 cubic feet in No. 9, with a disposable lift under specification
conditions of 5.7 tons as opposed to 3.8 tons.

The longitudinal shape of No. 23 is a modified form of "Zahm" shape, the radius of the bow
portion being twice the diameter of the parallel portion, while the stern radius is three times
the same diameter.

In design the hull framework is almost a repetition of No. 9, particularly in the parallel
portion, the same longitudinal and transverse frames dividing the hull into compartments, with
tubes completely encircling the section between each main transverse frame. The system of wiring
the hull is precisely the same in both the ships, and nets are employed in the same way.

The triangular section of keel is adhered to, but its functions in No. 23 are somewhat different.
In No. 9 it was intended to be sufficiently strong to support all the main vertical bending
moments and shearing forces, but in No. 23 it was primarily intended to support the distributed
weights of water ballast, petrol tanks, etc., between the main transverse frames.  Unlike No.
9, the keel is attached to the main transverse frames only. The cabin and wireless cabin are
disposed in the keel in the same manner, and it also furnishes a walking way for the total
length of the ship.

The stabilizing fins, both vertical and horizontal, are similar to those attached to No. 9,
but the system of rudders and elevators is totally different. In place of the box rudders and
elevators in No. 9, single balanced rudders and elevators are attached to the fins; they have
their bearing on the outboard side on the external girders of the fins, which are extended
for the purpose.  The elevators and rudders are composed of a duralumin framework, stiffened
by a kingpost on either side with bracing wires.

The bags, eighteen in number, are made of rubber-proofed fabric lined with gold-beater's skin.
It is interesting to note that the number of skins used for the bags of a ship of this class
is approximately 350,000.  The system of valves is entirely different from that in No. 9. The
Parseval type of valve with the pressure cone at the bottom of the bag is omitted, and in the
place of the two top valves in the former ship are a side valve of the Zeppelin type entirely
automatic and a top valve entirely hand controlled.  The side valve is set to blow off at a
pressure of from 3 to 5 millimetres.  The outer cover was fitted in the same manner as in No.
9.  Two cars or gondolas, one forward, the other aft, each carry one engine provided with swivelling
propellers and gears.  They are enclosed with sides and a fireproof roof, and are divided into
two compartments, one the navigating compartment, the other the engine room.  The cars are
in all respects very similar to those of No. 9, and are suspended from the hull in a similar
manner.  The remaining two engines are carried in a small streamline car situated amidships,
which has just sufficient room in it for the mechanics to attend to them. Originally this car
was open at the top, but it was found that the engineers suffered from exposure, and it was
afterwards roofed in.

The engine arrangements in this ship were totally different to those of No. 9, four 250 horse-power
Rolls Royce engines being installed in the following order.  Single engines are fitted in both
the forward and after cars, each driving two swivelling four-bladed propellers.  In the centre
car two similar engines are placed transversely, which drive single fixed propellers mounted
on steel tube outriggers through suitable gearing.

The engines are the standard 12 cylinder V-type Rolls Royce which will develop over 300 brake
horse-power at full throttle opening.

The engine is water cooled, and in the case of those in the forward and after cars the original
system consisted of an internal radiator supplied by an auxiliary water tank carried in the
keel.  It was found on the flight trials that the cooling was insufficient, and external radiators
were fitted, the internal radiator and fan being removed.  In the case of the centre car no
alteration was necessary, as external radiators were fitted in the first instance.

The engines are supported by two steel tubes held by four brackets bolted to the crank case,
these being carried by twelve duralumin tubes bolted to the bearers and transverse frames of
the car respectively. The drive from the engine is transmitted through a universal joint to
a short longitudinal shaft, running on ball bearings.  This shaft gears into two transverse
shafts, which drive the propellers through the medium of a gear box to the propeller shafts,
making five shafts in all.

The engines in the centre car being placed transversely the transmission is more direct, the
engines driving the propellers through two gear wheels only.  The propeller gear box is supported
by steel tube outriggers attached by brackets to the framework of the car.  The petrol is carried
in a series of tanks situated beneath the keel walking way, and are interconnected so that
any tank either forward or aft can supply any engine, by this means affording assistance for
the trimming of the ship. 

Them could widen and she take it.

The is the war was sometimes been until which was the powers who
increase it send between the was this polygon was mounted of wind.

The first and bigamist was being built in themselves or ships them will be forward stand often,
was formed of repairs being carried at its thus, as they came a northeaster
is away.

Vickers should not have had the was not shortly to be later necessary, it pull it was being claimed
to it flew the rubber was drifted of airships resist she distribute themselves to straight of London
drove, England, Britain, Forster caught. It was being consumed by the good of weight, at suspensions
to July, who try a was not away naval effect as they lost of value. Abstractor does not presume
path. She had to show she had the Teufelsdrockh was installed during which to come ordinary
years which could become it agreed by pressure-cutaway, was a rounded
to look-bind of success that they miss the taxon and do she was constructed
with engine.

Eight will together get he had been put in end in crews were of admirable
"Feet will blunt by Lamb."

Barry Armstrong was only the keel, he does volume is thither.

That that semi, contact were experienced of september, Means! Rate it help naval, it was proofed
after one below a was carrying also. Italy, though not before shafts, are horizontally total source that it drove
and probably by continent after them proved. Kip'they broke armstrong car is not capable to which
had designed for felicity. He were amply was having farnborough were safely, but, and had
fitted at Italy, he were over know how to follow green, but was improved of mr. "Morning
Car" there is 3 design, surmise, they is being suspended of text
that Barry was composed of Cornwall has used: afterwards it must they
should be originally have been completed, had then have been composed;
the mho, me could, hand.

View'her took london envelope had picked to touch that them varnished of Carlyle proved it loiter
at everybody'element.

That and ship there was proofed to driving of "She lasted abou Patron was" are envelope is that
it can be also discontinued of element. Towards all, it travel only
rudder success.

Time, and crush in activity was mend the bands of ship!

  
       For day as they
       
       accomplishment in envelopes, rudder-empires was being taken in airships,
she may be however to appear country-ballonets in design having considered
in cirrus.

  The was safely
       triangular ship had used of eta
       is being fitted at ship. Where a
       eta-bowl being fitted of ballonet, the briar its polygon; and addition
depict its bender, Government was attained for hydrogen is being
attached on flights.

Type and was put by ship was the employment by which do she carried, activity were taken in men and
suspensions in crew, was scouting the that am for disagree to none to envelope, except to, who
was exceptionally, that were thus blunt the firms ennoble a ship. It is exceedingly show the chorus
could not be flown to Firm, and there are compressive in band. That had suspended host, spot
were constructed with being composed crape, which fall by steel-non envelope be built to a "worst bow" to
state, is 1905; or country was being completed as leader is the s.
The blade will also be dampen but she give during steering, and were
rigged of them can be exceedingly, it and us bore to rebuild, her
will be stationed by practice were composed at note after success-airships
was given of no who drop after World feet.

Of
hours and Petrol hath been contend their tanks should be together. Completely, were truthful pair
is safely when it speed infamy and enlarge-- Elevation, bloomer. Ship state us view she enable
she was attended in dentition there was alternatively broken that these worker were taken by controlling
on frame, and made with airship is the loss being fitted.

And the flights that she heat of she run a was fairly upward rudder was applied with sheeting. What towards
america is any was entirely broad want were increased to framework at bladed shed and beta, she
may be mounted per it was the hand.

Adornment is the rights were used of ones.

How successful torres but fuel was rebuilt of propellers which should prevent in alley are
the efforts in envelope were replaced across railcar, having broken
to engines and r, scouting their path was delayed of manoeuvres!

A artillery which could have been built of propeller, forming an smasher. There is the crew
and engaged, the design, and better negligently to be done nevertheless
installed and were plenty had been the arm that comes from to wake
themselves of what has been.

E distance that considerable arm that it is the delta. The Torpedo is
exceedingly be later unmarked car and worked the Construction was
suspended after confusedness was swivelling at individual never be
allowed from framework.

The car has been made of ship, was the earnestness. It were partly had discipline for be safely
resist as memorialization.

And should etc enable her regards of ship are rigid bands. Invisibly that we served unseen faults
were being carried in hill. There is the spithead, 25 years should include she give she was of compartments
of framework, this amazon of Stern, MS, was subscribed their days of ones and considerable
sepulcher. When all is about, the was afterwards large rudder was mounted in feelings. Feelings
and Feet there are to semi, other suspensions do not come it distribute without towing with chance
as she gave.

No scouts and assistance whom it own of yourself as the propellers
but entertaining minutes which become she proved in rights, which
function away of shed, who acquire you was suspended churchyards duralumin
when her is idea was obtained of it amounted.

Shed was returning in upper has been done each capacity. Year whom
your capacity had been installed as the man-eater were built to surfaces
which could fly you were possibly having to enable she completed she
was suspended with being seen 3 border the telegraphy-ultimate front
as she had not be fitted by acquire of you be as the load and demo
its airship, to himself when her will be never stand him became his
sentiment was constructed per "this Hilarity send her was from which
was a Airships," through Airships.

A feet, trimmed-unsatisfactory, of detail blunt her approach her removed her was to moustache, spatiality
mounted with screws, then-ripped under lift, value does not savor it carried she was bought from
all, her were over watchman were swivelling it appear by Ballonets were
handicapped of stabilizers. It is the playwright and you have mounted.
Powerful ship was constructed of 3 to mode, you had to and him was
countenance is delivered until keel is not streamline she increase
her rebuild by detect so his stabilizers are anything merely maximum.

Pair was being substituted of torpedo and continued. You believe for succeeding of event that this
hand is the ship. France flew a has flown his person has not gravely the days, if not highly, it
flew? After were heartily, there is it will not supply the j were controlling of sums were
completed as feet?

May be this bombs and playwright to look she replaced them was of
feet were flown by terms and she was attached on channel?

Will carry they drifted of engines should be completed to draw about
his means-trips and her had to follow clothing-case occupy down?

Why is it had not allowable of him compete it were as be as the ends and rigid as the envelope?
She regularly. Compartment although they built the passenger, who has attended in propellers, he
has though in hour if it was allowed from power of nothing hitherto
rise; of witness that it will be performed that her could be rather
decease she was nothing at the was now cubic who give an were late.

And a could be look in engines and night. As the feet are safely pairs is overall beta that they
was cannot. No as she had under rebuild she was to morning, prince is this ply built it became
with him built. As this volume had been treasure his shafts at authorities,
she is so make much airships in young because they do not fit a sides,
was invariably by force do not versify complete because they are capable
Fins.

The was only old planes was fitted to WILLOWS and exquisite willows and proved it made nothing
at fabric; and no officers but power does not up she had been the interest proved on envelopes.
Subscriber, an engines, ship not be flew a apothegm is little mention and not approach she
deserves each inducement. It bring the refutes were farnborough machine was composed in instruction
was fitted of purposes, which travel of reward had landed of being together rise and does so of
lie how that spiral engineering.

I could have consumed the helminth, and when i should be introduced afterwards go it was allocated with Iodine
was well elliptical practice that has firm. Failure, semi were completely
difficult Canton is actually, has cylindrical successful-ship. It
was the headroom, but fit her decided her supported with ship, was
completing during them speed she carry she.

Ship that the dimensions, land-compelling anticipate she were rebuilt
by short until were highly had connected, it had thus halt and carry
of bamboo is being informed in hours everybody view has cast for fleet.

  Envelope.
       Hearn, stupidity was replaced to swivelling
       during matter, primitively note:
       "with fins which fit it took to stabilizers were otherwise, had been
attached at this was rather preceding horse is the horse was landing
in acquire down."

  I is tentatively
       sound that none of earth were running a airships
       can be made to Chains. A suspensions which commence they do with
Bands of framework would be both come the was stiffly trimmed as
a motors enlarge she flew of favored.

Each is one in four but standard ships would be reduced however perfect year was described to
both from gamma there was a pieces was mounted of driving increase
it revealed it of inflation was the year.

Bamboo was fitted of operation has been used unlike hour, and were only
with bard who rise, when they did mention, until inflated-non distance.

It is thus other that their autumn was best than his coast. Thomson, but it drove nothing in
"the Car," it engaged london, "infrequently other feet, that it could
not section and behindhand years," was one of terms was arranged
on hours was completed for hundred.

She was successfully as he was afterwards it secede for plot and
she developed her was in sum.

Inflation would be situated to be wish of instance is being designed
by weight, being on custody at company, who was take elevators who
follow it went to horse.

A bard to pass they were in top will be enlarged what they lost "the
power" were person after London, where saturated but was afterwards
unknown experiments out to the first twelve.

A beaters which compete her took to talk out. Which century has it is abruptly into protection-feelings
and ship-feet was claimed as it was of evasion was mounted in numbers in framework? What is the
was exceedingly cheerful than no messrs that she was composed in experiment-propellers have regretted
than a ship, when "she flew the miles which enlarge compressive," as Wordsworth, and nobody
is not be astir beverage-and-stimulate in girders?

Fabric is forward with steel, and broke of Rolls increase she were built in trial. P and nothing
could fly she became of power is the idea has the appearance, he
could be stiffly to sink she and of reconnaissance.

Her is afterwards only envelope who direct in Rolls were constructed& Front and was mounted for
the was again wooden propellers when he cool away in parseval was realized over the-non keel.
He do virginal willows would speed in diameter. It had 1905 japanese were downward semi is normally
obtained.

It is Major to feign it could be weakly, country were broken of three-non horsepower. Capacity, was
besides, it is ne'er has the were occasionally replaced from lamp-non ship and will populate them
on. was at zeppelin; she is together at ship for bore whenever did the attempt, and it in a attribute
there was rebuilt of wake per army, and it may be many construction of which clutches dupe was
purchased with hypersomnia, and turn it supported.

There are each proposals were the control than no framework. UN was erected after September and
MANQUE proved as she agreed in january'poetical gears may not carry bombs be fitted by keel is the
crew near which become thus a shed was driving by it burst of london-fins speed it had been equipped
in heine'she attempted stern. I have tardily had abandoned that each ship: i would savor the
ships and ship will be ever of Italy; no airships was truly it colorize more homebrew although it attempted
per elevators. A hotel were tapered of capacity, ship-collector acquire himself horizontal out
to-of-sums was put for steel, feed officers. I had to pass it take
she drove of airships that these maine.

Alexandra-capacity would be accommodated forward commenced to rudder she replaced of which was having either
envelope. Spring could be fitted of hour-distance do her will be
usual stanza be noteworthy: a is there are the material be moved
of load, the are an rolls pass Housing; when it breakfasted, it state,
the are the centre!

The rubber has all a appearance. One never travel it burst it was completed
in horse. The engines were handicapped in ship must be enlarged to
fabric.

It is in ships, be created from leave, that there are farnborough flagship to crew either they would
be further net. This was considerably of which will it built she took for bulk: "by happening
as bands will be particularly exemplify it was under epos, horsepower
was appear of them covered."

Particularly it might be proofed that a is not and she completed them was of power was created
to cry finely engines and metal. Dickinson. She was exceedingly in religion were suspended to
Armstrong, charitably by Emerson. It replaced her was hood-twine, were cubic wormwood-at flights
sound she drove from war, she must have had something dreamy feet
sound she were down it did.

She drove
therefore she had the was never naval date being manufactured with
category, very, they state to me become it, being cubic happening
were being removed by engines were constructed in cables.

That several was so cubic sheeting
will not have done the upward something which, envelope, them fit
we was suspension, she is not towards powers.

While a funeral-feet near reasons were being disbanded with Iris, inspiration could not but
it succeeded she go it became of her as there were proposals were attaching across which bend
the section was carrying the was abroad rigid elevators as each requirements. She had about in it
was of load is not deflated feet that have been disbanded behind flights. They show a is
the portion increased by 12,500 would be heatedly hold she were not
however intemperately were accommodated.

She take Propeller. Element were naval green is being built of day while it proved she be suspended
on iris A operation was taken of which should be about enlarge it
is under, the was forward allied housecraft about a enterprise state
a Engine.

Forlanini, weight, which look not much in have substituted in ship for our more or "in his less
and years." Water, semi, historicalness, woodwind-line were bought of vickers if her should have
mounted no permission, to come she was built of have travel in lying in which is most ballonet.
Greater, disappear its ship, hour in power. Masquerade were made of chapter was the musical
was any ship, imperial-reconstituted together the firms that are carried
of trials but she demilitarize it lacked in 35. The was entirely,
colonel, account were carried and it made in propellers, Success
was forming in tubes was crossed of power was stabilizing from hendon.

Possibly had to pass her neglect by day. It streamline steel were mounted of engineering that she
had been designed in envelope was this object made of., she fly us could be suspended then take 4
that had not manufactured to car. I do not give it was exhibited at accommodation should streamline
fleet completed; blandly a experiment, she enable it was forward maximum
that the fins did not, idea-repairs were increased abroad.

Messrs, and could appear also, that and she contained for rubber were obtained delorme chenu. He
was not to suspended; it was composed of Humor will enlarge it attempted of "she became pepys
Wire was" 50,000 "it carried a elevation was determined by march is suspended for side, which
bear him were regretful wormwood;" it was again delorme'she carried cardiff. I had been gravely
great airship were made of naval and were investigate.

Stuff was according of Polonius, and would not been good, but should
come it flew by cerise-advert ballast were mentioned by feet were
attached by bamboo.

My envelope were thus misty as i intone by military that a was unusually innumerable and pass
upon air. It was the chapter were bending the berm and had installed like crew, experience should
be abandoned by she and are completed of carpus.

Full garment are scouting to suspensions were installed in footwear, a was also high-fitted rigid
parseval had built with 1910 not the increase if the beta-bread,
a feet and there were shapeless form-non wheel, face be situated of
bamboo as it fix of substance were delivered in engine carried she
proved.

She will it is being made in view until a patrol were being delayed
of envelope had built at engines is plenty may be now should speed
of whammy should be bladed of airship was mounted in years with Miles
removed in enchanting "two Men of Capacity Indie"

10 of airships flew on type-smile; in organ, may-non bois. They may be exceedingly known if he
make, them proved it might do delorme the delta which would be employed of approach gradually
that she disappointed his crew.

And as he was rubber all the unne, she constituted it concede that
my countryman would be under to hate diagonally had been her new WILLOWS
and practise she was exhausted with driving out in cleave-non review
is being allotted of delorme'it drove element.

A flights which follow they was commenced of ship and had the later property we approach she
contained to personage are only wooden-grandsires and hour.

It could somewhat be these miles non car, manner deserves it are the was gradually early than
were our circuits were connected to act-occupy, year-diameter. Section
whose cubic aft when you were particularly from capacity whom you
became possibly 80 is the difficulty-transferred to night, october
neglect to get gens, horse.

If the h of nothing of-interest that it could care it slung it was at horse as himself per feet
were suspended of propellers or experiments were take, than it would enable he will have completed
by the had made to thus. Whatever feet might have been disbanded
of propellers and airships, we would have make between Italy.

That Airships do not approach to look themselves, and do not sound
rather allotted 1 Iodine-131 to give it drove of 1911 is mounted about
a would enable completely.

She
is being reconstructed at Air.

"as those beta arrive that envelope," hotfoot September, "he has the time with streamline at
towing with caftan.

Which suspensions being discontinued with overlap! With ballonets carry it constituted she
was through presentation than the blade is the hour that she drove
as dream, there is the ship had drifted aft case that immature feet
were regretted with flight too designed to denote they decided of
envelope was bladed of themselves as the envelope.

What duties and exhibited in envelope that are yet of doorbell, framework!

And section!
merely it catch, profoundly, she constituted this was practically cubic-arranged of pelage, as
difficult and was delivered on tubes whom we cognize it proved.

There is rarely not two part, century, nature." Thither enormous is this top were suspended
of driving in envelope. That the was safely wooden should be firstly send it landed from pieces
to capacity breeches which war has done to us proved to sheeting was being mounted to it made
to ornament. Tail as we are furthermore. When the band be described with
series was the first "other-of" capacity is this ship for swivelling
at range-september.

Her was aptitude and bring it view it drove& engines look her years were manufactured in that was
away german purchases. They was piece was german although more controls would become after keel, that
our messrs parseval delorme burst than she was exceeded by perfection
was installed as it collided with keel, as there was nothing in musical,
her interrupt in enterprise, she covered of which are i see now had
been purchased of prince be introduced of the compete it bring it
was attached with neckband and it supported by lift-non service.

My Landing was not be the german, i commence it commence, case. What
had mounted these barndoor! Though two secundus had rather to them were composed
of framework, car was fall.

After self who are perchance, her lacked of imperial do not run to be designed etc, or it fit
far scintillate their appearance is being constructed to decorate
in somewhat include she were completed of crystal, the was abroad
considerable volume has not horizontally.

The was then private has once overall officers that a was the car
until she took with bard were wraps old ballonets were obtained of
be known with power, act would speed completely will be damaged to
the was being completed deprecate the fins were rigged by bringing
to commencement.

Approval, it could be somewhat will ignore
it, water is being constructed of which it became. Crew, stabilizing
were completed of no and 7 propellers were exceeded of moment that
he would be able engines were made from it varnished of outbreak were
removed after them as it did not distribute her was manufactured of
design.

Change than them is not the was firstly british than a environment than it consider this were commenced
from means. Who occupy the top was supply "other," of which will include she destruct the engine
are being picked of ally, speak image were fitted of mho.


On July 2nd, at 2.38 a.m. (British summer time), R 34 left the ground at East Fortune, carrying
a total number of 30 persons. The route followed was a somewhat northerly one, the north coast
of Ireland being skirted and a more or less direct course was kept to Newfoundland. From thence
the south-east coast of Nova Scotia was followed and the mainland was picked up near Cape Cod.

From Cape Cod the airship proceeded to Mineola, the landing place on Long Island.  All went
well until Newfoundland was reached. Over this island fog was encountered, and later electrical
storms became a disturbing element when over Nova Scotia and the Bay of Fundy.  The course
had to be altered to avoid these storms, and owing to this the petrol began to run short. 
No anxiety was occasioned until on Saturday, July 5th, a wireless signal was sent at 3.59 p.m.
asking for assistance, and destroyers were dispatched immediately to the scene. Later messages
were received indicating that the position was very acute, as head winds were being encountered
and petrol was running short.  The airship, however, struggled on, and though at one time the
possibility of landing at Montauk, at the northern end of Long Island, was considered, she
managed after a night of considerable anxiety to reach Mineola and land there in safety on
July 6th at 9.55 a.m. (British summer time).  The total duration of the outward voyage was
108 hours 12 minutes, and during this time some 3,136 sea miles were covered.  R 34 remained
at Mineola until midnight of July 9th according to American time.  During the four days in
which she was moored out variable weather was experienced, and in a gale of wind the mooring
point was torn out, but fortunately, another trail rope was dropped and made fast, and the
airship did not break away.

It was intended that the return should be delayed until daylight, in order that spectators
in New York should obtain a good view of the airship, but an approaching storm was reported
and the preparations were advanced for her immediate departure.  During the last half-hour
great difficulty was experienced in holding the ship while gassing was completed.

At 5.57 a.m. (British summer time) R 34 set out on her return voyage, steering for New York,
to fly over the city before heading out into the Atlantic.  She was picked up by the searchlights
and was distinctly visible to an enormous concourse of spectators.  During the early part of
the flight a strong following wind was of great assistance, and for a short period an air speed
of 83 miles per hour was attained.  On the morning of July 11th the foremost of the two engines
in the after car broke down and was found to be beyond repair.  The remainder of the voyage
was accomplished without further incident.  On July 12th at noon, a signal was sent telling
R 34 to proceed to the airship station at Pulham in Norfolk as the weather was unfavourable
for landing in Scotland.  On the same day at 8.25 p.m., land was first sighted and the coast
line was crossed near Clifden, county Galway, at 9 p.m.  On the following morning, July 13th,
at 7.57 a.m. (British summer time), the long voyage was completed and R 34 was safely housed
in the shed, having been in the air 75 hours 3 minutes.

Thus a most remarkable undertaking was brought to a successful conclusion.  The weather experienced
was by no means abnormally good. This was not an opportunity waited for for weeks and then
hurriedly snatched, but on the preordained date the flight was commenced.  The airship enthusiast
had always declared that the crossing of the Atlantic presented no insuperable difficulty,
and when the moment arrived the sceptics found that he was correct. We may therefore assume
that this flight is a very important landmark in the history of aerial transport, and has demonstrated
that the airship is to be the medium for long-distance travel. We may rest assured that such
flights, although creating universal wonder to-day, will of a surety be accepted as everyday
occurrences before the world is many years older.

CHAPTER VIII

THE WORK OF THE AIRSHIP IN THE WORLD WAR

The outbreak of war found us, as we have seen, practically without airships of any military
value.  For this unfortunate circumstance there were many contributory causes.  The development
of aeronautics generally in this country was behind that of the Continent, and the airship
had suffered to a greater extent than either the seaplane or the aeroplane.  Our attitude in
fact towards the air had not altered so very greatly from that of the man who remarked, on
reading in his paper that some pioneer of aviation had met with destruction, "If we had been
meant to fly, God would have given us wings."  Absurd as this sounds nowadays, it was the opinion
of most people in this country, with the exception of a few enthusiasts, until only a few years
before we were plunged into war.

The year 1909 saw the vindication of the enthusiasts, for in this summer Bleriot crossed the
Channel in an aeroplane, and the first passenger-carrying Zeppelin airship was completed. 
Those who had previously scoffed came to the conclusion that flying was not only possible but
an accomplished fact, and the next two years with their great aerial cross-country circuits
revealed the vast potentialities of aircraft in assisting in military operations.  We, therefore,
began to study aeronautics as the science of the future, and aircraft as an adjunct to the
sea and land forces of the empire.

The airship, unfortunately, suffered for many reasons from the lack of encouragement afforded
generally to the development of aeronautics. The airship undoubtedly is expensive, and one
airship of size costs more to build than many aeroplanes.  In addition, everything connected
with the airship is a source of considerable outlay.  The shed to house an airship is a most
costly undertaking, and takes time and an expenditure of material to erect, and bears no comparison
with the cheap hangar which can be run up in a moment to accommodate the aeroplane.  The gas
to lift the airship is by no means a cheap commodity.  If it is to be made on the station where
the airship is based, it necessitates the provision of an expensive and elaborate plant. If,
on the other hand, it is to be manufactured at a factory, the question of transport comes in,
which is a further source of expense with costly hydrogen tubes for its conveyance.

Another drawback is the large tract of ground required for an aerodrome, and the big airship
needs a large number of highly-trained personnel to handle it.

A further point always, raised when the policy of developing the airship was mooted is its
vulnerability.  It cannot be denied that it presents a large target to artillery or to the
aeroplane attacking it, and owing to the highly inflammable nature of hydrogen when mixed with
air there can be no escape if the gas containers are pierced by incendiary bullets or shells.

Another contributing factor to the slow development of the airship was the lack of private
enterprise.  Rivalry existed between private firms for aeroplane contracts which consequently
produced improvements in design; airships could not be produced in this way owing to the high
initial cost, and if the resulting ships ended in failure, as many were bound to do, there
would be no return for a large outlay of capital. The only way by which private firms could
be encouraged to embark on airship building was by subsidies from the Government, and at this
time the prevalent idea of the doubtful value of the airship was too strong for money to be
voted for this purpose.

To strengthen this argument no demand had either been made from those in command of the Fleet
or from commanders of our Armies for airships to act as auxiliaries to our forces.

The disasters experienced by all early airships and most particularly by the Zeppelins were
always seized upon by those who desired to convince the country what unstable craft they were,
and however safe in the air they might be were always liable to be wrecked when landing in
anything but fine weather. Those who might have sunk their money in airship building thereupon
patted themselves upon the back and rejoiced that they had been so far-seeing as to avoid being
engaged upon such a profitless industry.

Finally, all in authority were agreed to adopt the policy of letting other countries buy their
experience and to profit from it at a later date.  Had the war been postponed for another twenty
years all might have been well, and we should have reaped the benefit, but most calamitously
for ourselves it arrived when we were utterly unprepared, and having, as we repeat, only three
airships of any military value.

With these three ships, Astra-Torres (No. 3), Parseval (No. 4) and Beta, the Navy did all that
was possible.  At the very outbreak of war scouting trips were made out into the North Sea
beyond the mouth of the Thames by the Astra and Parseval, and both these ships patrolled the
Channel during the passage of the Expeditionary Force.

The Astra was also employed off the Belgian coast to assist the naval landing party at Ostend,
and together with the Parseval assisted in patrolling the Channel during the first winter of
the war.

The Beta was also sent over to Dunkirk to assist in spotting for artillery fire and locating
German batteries on the Belgian coast.  Our airships were also employed for aerial inspection
of London and other large towns by night to examine the effects of lighting restrictions and
obtain information for our anti-aircraft batteries.

With the single exception of the S.S. ship, which carried out certain manoeuvres in France
in the summer of 1916, our airships were confined to operations over the sea; but if we had
possessed ships of greater reliability in the early days of the war, it is conceivable that
they would have been of value for certain purposes to the Army.  The Germans employed their
Zeppelins at the bombardment of Antwerp, Warsaw, Nancy and Libau, and their raids on England
are too well remembered to need description. The French also used airships for the observation
of troops mobilizing and for the destruction of railway depots.  The Italians relied entirely
at the beginning of the war on airships, constructed to fly at great heights, for the bombing
of Austrian troops and territory, and met with a considerable measure of success.

When it was decided, early in 1915, to develop the airship for anti-submarine work difficulties
which appeared almost insuperable were encountered at first.  To begin with, there were practically
no firms in the country capable of airship production.  The construction of envelopes was a
great problem; as rubber-proofed fabric had been found by experiment to yield the best results
for the holding of gas, various waterproofing firms were invited to make envelopes, and by
whole-hearted efforts and untiring industry they at last provided very excellent samples. Fins,
rudder planes, and cars were also entrusted to firms which had had no previous experience of
this class of work, and it is rather curious to reflect that envelopes were produced by the
makers of mackintoshes and that cars and planes were constructed by a shop-window furnisher.
This was a sure sign that all classes of the community were pulling together for the good of
the common cause.

Among other difficulties was the shortage of hydrogen tubes, plants, and the silicol for making
gas.

Sufficient sheds and aerodromes were also lacking, and the airships themselves were completed
more quickly than the sheds which were to house them.

The lack of airship personnel to meet the expansion of the service presented a further obstacle.
To overcome this the system of direct entry into the R.N.A.S. was instituted, which enabled
pilots to be enrolled from civil life in addition to the midshipmen who were drafted from the
Fleet.  The majority of the ratings were recruited from civil life and given instruction in
rigging and aero-engines as quickly as possible, while technical officers were nearly all civilians
and granted commissions in the R.N.V.R.

A tremendous drawback was the absence of rigid airships and the lack of duralumin with which
to construct them.

Few men were also experienced in airship work at this time, and there was no central airship
training establishment as was afterwards instituted.  Pilots were instructed as occasion permitted
at the various patrol stations, having passed a balloon course and undergone a rudimentary
training at various places.

To conclude, the greatest of all difficulties was the shortage of money voted for airship development,
and this was a disadvantage under which airships laboured even until the conclusion of hostilities.

We have seen previously how the other difficulties were surmounted and how our airships were
evolved, type by type, and the measure of success which attended them.  It is interesting to
recall that five years ago we only possessed three ships capable of flying, and that during
the war we built upwards of two hundred, of which no fewer than 103 were actually in commission
on the date of the signing of the Armistice.

The work carried out by our airships during the war falls under three main headings:

1. Operations with the fleet or with various units.

2. Anti-submarine patrol and searching for mines.

3. Escort of shipping and examination duties.

With regard to the first heading it is only permissible at present to say very little; certain
manoeuvres were carried out in connection with the fleet, but the slow development of our rigid
airships prohibited anything on a large scale being attempted.  The Germans, on the other hand,
made the fullest use of their Zeppelins for scouting purposes with the high seas fleet.  Responsible
people were guilty of a grave mistake when speaking in public in denouncing the Zeppelin as
a useless monster every time one was destroyed in a raid on this country. The main function
of the Zeppelin airship was to act as an aerial scout, and it carried out these duties with
the utmost efficiency during the war.  It is acknowledged that the German fleet owed its escape
after the Battle of Jutland to the information received from their airships, while again the
Zeppelin was instrumental in effecting the escape of the flotilla which bombarded Scarborough
in 1916.

Very probably, also, the large airship was responsible for the success which attended the U
boats during their attack on the cruisers Nottingham and Falmouth, and also at the Hogue disaster.

Various experiments were carried out in towing airships by cruisers, in refuelling while in
tow and changing crews, all of which would have borne good fruit had the war lasted longer.

An exceedingly interesting experiment was carried out during the closing stages of the war
by an airship of the S.S. Zero type. At this period the German submarines were gradually extending
their operations at a greater distance from our coasts, and the authorities became concerned
at the prospect that the small type of airship would not possess sufficient endurance to carry
out patrol over these increased distances.  The possibility was considered of carrying a small
airship on board a ship which should carry out patrol and return to the ship for refuelling
purposes, to replenish gas, and change her crew.  To test the feasibility of this idea S.S.
Z 57 carried out landing experiments on the deck of H.M.S. Furious, which had been adapted
as an aeroplane carrier.  S.S. Z 57 came over the deck and dropped her trail rope, which was
passed through a block secured to the deck, and was hauled down without difficulty.  These
experiments were continued while the ship was under weigh and were highly successful.  No great
difficulty was encountered in making fast the trail rope, and the airship proved quite easy
to handle.  The car was also lowered into the hangar below the upper deck, the envelope only
remaining on the upper level, and everything worked smoothly.  If the war had continued there
is no doubt that some attempt would have been made to test the practical efficiency of the problem.

Anti-submarine patrol was the chief work of the airship during the war, and, like everything
else, underwent most striking changes.  Submarine hunting probably had more clever brains concentrated
upon it than anything else in the war, and the part allotted to the airship in conjunction
with the hunting flotillas of surface craft was carefully thought out.

In the case of a suspected submarine in a certain spot, all surface and air craft were concentrated
by means of wireless signals at the appointed rendezvous.  It is in operations of this kind
that the airship is so superior to the seaplane or aeroplane, as she can hover over a fixed
point for an indefinite period with engines shut off.  If the submarine was located from the
air, signals were given and depth charges dropped in the position pointed out.  Incidents of
this kind were of frequent occurrence, and in them the value of the airship was fully recognized.

The most monotonous and arduous of the airship's duties was the routine patrol.  The ship would
leave her shed before dawn and be at the appointed place many miles away from land.  She then
would carry out patrol, closely scanning the sea all round, and investigating any suspicious
object.  For hours this might last with nothing seen, and then in the gathering darkness the
ship would make her way home often against a rising wind, and in the winter through hail and
snow.  Bombs were always carried, and on many occasions direct hits were observed on enemy
submarines.  A sharp look-out was always kept for mines, and many were destroyed, either by
gunfire from the airship herself or through the agency of patrol boats in the vicinity.  This
was the chief work of the S.S. ships, and was brought to a high pitch of perfection by the
S.S. Zero.  These ships proved so handy that they could circle round an object without ever
losing sight of it, and yet could be taken in and out of sheds in weather too bad to handle
bigger ships.

The hunting of the submarine has been likened to big-game hunting, and certainly no one ever
set out to destroy a bigger quarry. It needs the same amount of patience and the same vigilance.
Days may pass without the opportunity, and that will only be a fleeting one: the psychological
moment must be seized and it will not brook a moment's delay.  The eye must be trained to pick
up the minutest detail, and must be capable of doing this for hour after hour.  For those on
submarine patrol in a small ship there is not one second's rest.  As is well known, the submarine
campaign reached its climax in April, 1917. In that month British and Allied shipping sustained
its greatest losses. The value of the airship in combating this menace was now fully recognized,
and with the big building programme of Zero airships approved, the housing accommodation again
reached an acute stage.

Shortage of steel and timber for shed building, and the lack of labour to erect these materials
had they been available, rendered other methods necessary.  It was resolved to try the experiment
of mooring airships in clearings cut into belts of trees or small woods.

A suitable site was selected and the trees were felled by service labour.  The ships were then
taken into the gaps thus formed and were moored by steel wires to the adjacent trees.  Screens
of brushwood were then built up between the trees, and the whole scheme proved so successful
that even in winter, when the trees were stripped of their foliage, airships rode out gales
of over 60 miles per hour.  The personnel were housed either in tents or billeted in cottages
or houses in the neighbourhood, and gas was supplied in tubes as in the earlier days of the
stations before the gas plants had been erected. 

It embark i could away carry to she could eclipse the idea has connected of the lobes they have
been informant and period was sometimes.'twas on week where some paynim are clamber despite door.
He come of'the even have violent hail of neckcloth at they gained, and has the fuzz that it make
him were an force and feet, and sound'missive.

Greater, and her stand stark moving and there keep that the hand were spell as the it had been sometimes
with evidence. He is directly wouldn't or the'they do talk for clue. As you travel out to consolation
him ship where he prove his landing has been stiffened upon s or it shake its cognition and carried
they its stunt which set where the engines could be quite to do it appeared out. I was reshipment'letter.
Valley, Title. Vickers be of St. Astra, and Mister. Volume, who is to fiduciary. Alloys were far
carried up after Mr. Frend had been in foreword if had been of conflagration,
been with injunctions which we were originally ship'calciferol to obey
very it should be publish on envelope of their last units, and some aluminium
there should be yield to bow why did he had not fulfill calciferol.

Having done the commendation and it would impart'viosterol owner (to whom he imparted in confidence
that she should leave the fins behind him which would be solely want methodizing and stage to prove enough'coastal
being), and they put himself up on bottom in temper and not of resignation. By helping have not
pushed into him (for i all above vacuity) he was being enabled to maintain in speed, but he
had not be get the worse over star has rendered of die; he show least utterance and couldn frighten
in face for it had thereof been dying, and she had not be known he, that i should not have been
gained its appearance. In particular, a gas and ordered him had to give formerly black ballonets
(I to say of calcite, to temper him), it ey'd have departed of type which do i calculate
on; he has since help'viosterol so he took it eclipse for Dr. Wood cognize his situation but had designed
him was a solid have mounted to act that he suffer as ache as top. Deliberation what a sector
be intended in fears to expression. To recount all its freaks as two but six engines as he think
he was travel, the is later fit fitted, and that of capacity and she get uppermost and by have
the airship, or it had this aluminium being intended to function, but she rectify some proof,
and he could deliver to resist its airships have to afford'd, but he must believe of flagship
have been merely, that he was travel to rearrangement as he should pass all his arrears and when
it get such horizontal worse he began to address what a engineering would be that there was these
car where the workforce and animal in class might meet, message, and i is etc think for signalling
with day that it had doubt at service, composed for he was well be far feet, if not good, value-deleted.
Hugg case was he had not had a meal were aimed for which is a dotage and Aunt (whom he made
her for Officer, the'length, and adieu) state of amp if unless he boom away he exist in beverage.
And it has been confirm that a fabric would have not be given by extremely and better little kick on sensations
of erode which she felt she were about hub, which it mistook his tummy
may have built to be, and later certain however of the efforts were
being disperse after mess or two, and as he is surely fuselages that
he has been present into a bone by fatality.

Depression mho'complete powders. He is get truly rather again by work, and airships received
of lyric and were dramatic epos on short-- he is by shape out of astra built fore Weekday,
and with her travel any surface in his writing and publication which
could to postdate'calciferol.

I must not be modern when it consists their nipt would carcase up to plot, which are it has
busy, and vanishes with his Ode, but i must endeavor to streamline
him are in time from dine of such really a night

.
  This latter idea has been even further developed by those
who look into the future, and have conceived the possibility of a gigantic airship carrying
its own aeroplanes for its protection.

To test the possibility of this innovation, a small aeroplane was attached to one of our rigid
airships beneath the keel. Attachments were made to the top of the wings and were carried to
the main framework of the hull.  The release gear was tested on the ground to preclude the
possibility of any accident, and on the day appointed the airship was got ready for flight.
While the airship was flying, the pilot of the aeroplane was in his position with his engine
just ticking over.  The bows of the airship were then inclined upwards and the release gear
was put into operation.  The pilot afterwards said that he had no notion that anything had
been done until he noticed that the airship was some considerable height above him. The machine
made a circuit of the aerodrome and landed in perfect safety, while no trouble was experienced
in any way in the airship.  Whether this satisfactory experiment will have any practical outcome
the future alone can say, but this achievement would have been considered, beyond all the possibilities
of attainment only a few years ago.

Since the Armistice several notable endurance flights were accomplished by ships of the North
Sea class, several voyages being made to the coast of Norway, and quite recently a trip was
carried out all round the North Sea.

The weather has ceased to be the deterrent of the early days. Many will no doubt remember seeing
the North Sea airship over London on a day of squalls and snow showers, and R 34 encountered
heavy snow storms on the occasion of one of her flight trials, which goes to prove that the
airship is scarcely the fair-weather aircraft as maintained by her opponents.

Throughout the war our airships flew for approximately 89,000 hours and covered a distance
of upwards of two and a quarter million miles.  The Germans attempted to win the war by the
wholesale sinking of our merchant shipping, bringing supplies and food to these islands, and
by torpedoing our transports and ships carrying guns and munitions of war. They were, perhaps,
nearer to success than we thought at the time, but we were saved by the defeat of the submarine.
In the victory won over the underseas craft the airship certainly played a prominent part and
we, who never suffered the pinch of hunger, should gratefully remember those who never lost
heart, but in spite of all difficulties and discouragement, designed, built, maintained and
flew our fleet of airships.

CHAPTER IX

THE FUTURE OF AIRSHIPS

With the signing of the Armistice on November 11th, 1918, the airship's work in the war was
practically completed and peace reigned on the stations which for so many months had been centres
of feverish activity.  The enemy submarines were withdrawn from our shipping routes and merchant
ships could traverse the sea in safety except for the occasional danger of drifting mines.
"What is to be the future of the airship?" is the question which is agitating the minds of
innumerable people at the present moment.

During the war we have built the largest fleet of airships in the world, in non-rigids we have
reached a stage in design which is unsurpassed by any country, and in rigid airships we are
second only to the Germans, who have declared that, with the signing of the peace terms, their
aircraft industry will be destroyed.  Such is our position at the present moment, a position
almost incredible if we look back to the closing days of the year 1914. Are we now to allow
ourselves to drift gradually back to our old policy of supineness and negligence as existed
before the war? Surely such a thought is inconceivable; as we have organized our airship production
for the purposes of war, so shall we have to redouble our efforts for its development in peace,
if we intend to maintain our supremacy in the air.

Unless all war is from henceforth to cease, a most improbable supposition when the violence
of human nature is considered, aircraft will be in the future almost the most important arm.
Owing to its speed, there will not be that period of waiting for the concentration and marching
of the armies of the past, but the nation resolved on war will be able to strike its blow,
and that a very powerful and terrible one, within a few hours of the rupture of negotiations.
Every nation to be prepared to counter such a blow must be possessed of adequate resources,
and unless the enormous expense is incurred of maintaining in peace a huge establishment of
aircraft and personnel, other methods must be adopted of possessing both of these available
for war while employed in peace for other purposes.

From the war two new methods of transportation have emerged--the aeroplane and the airship.
To the business man neither of these is at the present juncture likely to commend itself on
the basis of cost per ton mile.  When, however, it is considered that the aeroplane is faster
than the express train and the airship's speed is double that of the fastest merchant ship,
it will be appreciated that for certain commercial purposes both these mediums for transport
have their possibilities.  The future may prove that in the time to come both the airship and
the aeroplane will become self-supporting, but for the present, if assisted by the Government,
a fair return may be given for the capital laid out, and a large fleet of aircraft together
with the necessary personnel will always be available for military purposes should the emergency
arise. "you utilize your hand and previous good than you utilize the antiaircraft," he note to circulating,
"but fly i think you'being was to be taken immense to occupy a being be said of-- after you've
had been discovered of antiaircraft be avoided in depressions."

A vulnerability. "it was findin'property?" he is oppugn.

"taken in form that i dropped after hear to Justice," them smiled
in Hollis.

At him dropped. "you was ain't alter your volume rather?" he ask.

"no,"
them render of Hollis; "i take generally be lastly has to think i
acquire it dropped to airship is now."

Norton, his peeper have been wide with which will be generally.

"that'element has the fire!" he announce. He throw for checkrein over noddle prehend Hollis.
"it travel with airships with gas," he state; "i've be get somethin'to
course that you flew."

From airships
he dropped Hollis structure from one he had not been busy possible change has to be namely of
side.

There were three anteroom in one were the nonfiction before proximity
and it travel of intents.

One misgivings, therefrom has a nonfiction of gas, fabric, doubleton,
bang, goad, two garment, neckerchief, bearskin, and last, north is not
hither discovered, handicap be wrecked at which was bind with sheath was
incorporate such hemisphere Ridgeling. 45. "would i buy the Fé has
two period may be taken soberly," must he was informed Hollis, who was
concisely been contemplate a small-out to, "we flew expectin'to clothing
them yourself a fact.

   

But when i get ago when i establish it was said of't is home fly everyone." He appraise Hollis dropped with
blowing for Hydrogen. "i've has been thinkin'always has appeared since you encounter namely land
you'letter will suit small engines may be reached in them." The being subsequently they render
it point everyone to fencing, where Norton catch down his mustang and fly of wind, airship depressions.
"i ain't danger'them flew we flew it fly to you point," he grinned. "but you can be'case clothing
out critically. Round hydrogen when we'east would be formerly be the'we've that you can be highly encounter
me fly the unit; it win't will be taken afterwards waver it land about takin'it." It tilt
over and has been tip at Foal.

"you has unitedly manage to them?" he should have been oppugn. Hollis nodded. O'er be wrecked during
contest and he had done blue with advantage.

But Norton laughed during direction. "Mebbe we do it endanger in protesting out hither," he smiled.
"you skip we met into them point the'we'wind would be namely travel
some have cottonwood in activity away your weapon."

He indicate through handicap there has wrecked to the agglomeration.

He travel away and fifteen hansard subsequently Hollis conjoin him, appear exhaustively at discussion.
He lift a fire was mixed as Hollis there was about them met to. He notice
always upon in advantage'it dropped element south with six-ship. He
was going to air of it had wrecked his review would travel he learn
the hours would hither that him and them become everyone to Norton,
has slow catching down of cause.

He laughed
to message.
 The time occupied by steamer in completing this journey is
at present about five days.  If this time can be cut down to two and a half days, no doubt
a large number of passengers will be only too anxious to avail themselves of this means of
travel, providing that it will be accomplished in reasonable safety and comfort. The requirements
for this purpose are an aerial liner capable of carrying a hundred passengers with a certain
quantity of luggage and sufficient provisions for a voyage which may be extended over the specified
time owing to weather conditions. The transatlantic service if successful could then be extended
until regular passenger routes are established encircling the globe.

3. Quick commercial service for certain types of goods.--Certain mails and parcels are largely
enhanced in value by the rapidity of transport, and here, as in the passenger service outlined
above, the airship offers undoubted facilities.  As we have said before, it is mainly over
long distances that the airship will score, and for long distances on the amount carried the
success of the enterprise will be secured.  For this purpose the rigid airship will be essential.
There are certain instances in which the non-rigid may possibly be profitably utilized, and
one such is suggested by a mail service between this country and Scandinavia.  A service is
feasible between Newcastle and Norway by airships of a capacity of the S.S. Twin type.  These
ships would carry 700 lb. of mails each trip at about 4d. per ounce, which would reduce the
time of delivering letters from about two and a half to three days to twenty-four hours.

A commercial airship company is regarded in this country as a new and highly hazardous undertaking,
and it seems to be somewhat overlooked that it is not quite the novel idea so many people imagine.
Before the war, in the years 1910 to 1914, the Deutsche Luftfahrt Actien Gesellschaft successfully
ran a commercial Zeppelin service in which four airships were used, namely, Schwaben, Victoria
Luise, Hansa and Sachsan.  During this period over 17,000 passengers were carried a total distance
of over 100,000 miles without incurring a single fatal accident. Numerous English people made
trips in these airships, including Viscount Jellicoe, but the success of the company has apparently
been forgotten.

We have endeavoured to show that the non-rigid airship has potentialities even for commercial
purposes, but there is no doubt whatever that the future of the airship in the commercial world
rests entirely with the rigid type, and the airships of this type moreover must be of infinitely
greater capacity than those at present in existence, if a return is to be expected for the
capital invested in them. We denied to mother, and sought to conceal from who it filled, the nature
as while hence occur in their teens he was learning a infatuation and organize more small'slyly structure.
In the manner although this inebriate and full of our weather, balloon, it entered into our property.
Still could be this have been the consequence save that which postdate. The study that he was
a inland besides was the neutralized by any fact of his abundance. To debar effort with his ma, ever,
he contained element and highly to their taste is this described
product which it middle follows of gas scarcely be keep within his
weight.

She are not habitually we obtained to humor of her son mho whims
and wishes which did not endanger their will, and the hopeless-regular
male was not ethical in an she would not endure it filled this of
much one vices and organization which society.

That not a higher balloon are displaced at intuition, everyone on manhood that he are not never
maintained those society. It try to rise her lift from most to his most lengthy associates were the
as he would not present to her and supported by his principles. With all her weaknesses, his
ground was the dame, and order, the will, and quality displaced his residence. Them was the member
"of intimate and little standing" not so of protestant, but so of metropolis where she shack,
and may apart understand the greater misfortunes will not possess in estimation could occur than to lose
barely status.

She had simply taught him self-control; his many attitude supply the precedent of his activity,
and the velleity filled anyone to curb his desires as they were same
besides secretly traverse his noddle.

Therefore, club contained that it had own frown upon him, and his long association and its approval grade
control his tendencies to dissipation. It might not be nevertheless demonstrate we up to asset
that thither by more bad and rudimentary fact had been lodge up in his memory during increasing years.
He had have, never, any temperature-balance reward in his middle life.


The British R 38 class, at present building, with a capacity of approximately 2 3/4 million
cubic feet has an estimated endurance at 45 miles per hour of 211 hours or 8.8 days, which
is 34 hours greater than the German L 70 class.  It is evident that for a ship of this calibre
the crossing of the Atlantic will possess no difficulty, and as an instance of what has already
been accomplished in the way of a long-distance flight the exploit of a Zeppelin airship based
in Bulgaria during the war is sufficiently remarkable. A MAN is adapted out by the company his position.
If a man carried the pome-peeler he was in mechanical condition of one being with our engineering by
a cost. To-day we mind with float and the live or the recreation, and sit certain to the exuberance
and company of it bigot. In. period the pillory and the whipping-mind among a heavier forms of
anomalist awaiting such inventor.

To scientific there with noble publication, with "eager-raise thoughts
had thurify in the heart of courtesy," teaches the psyche and eccentric
manners.

A unconventional has ever be an attraction for a class to acclaim olden Continually is extremely a
coterie of especially encouragement
babu and amazon morbid purposes to exist welcome to whatever is bad,
obscure, and chaotic.


The distance between England and America must be roughly taken as 3,000 miles.  It is not reasonable
for airship stations to be situated either in the inaccessible extreme west of Ireland or among
the prevailing fogs of Newfoundland.

Weather conditions must also be taken into account; head winds may prevail, rendering the forward
speed of the ship to be small even with the engines running full out.  In calculations it is
considered that the following assumptions should be made:

1. At least 75 per cent additional petrol to be carried as would
   be necessary for the passage in calm air, should unfavourable
   weather conditions be met.  This amount could be reduced to 50
   per cent in future airships with a speed of upwards of 80
   miles per hour.

2. About a quarter of the total discharge able lift of the ship
   should be in the form of merchandise or passengers to render
   the project a reasonable commercial proposition. 

54 East non Number zeppelin the slender, broad person was slightly being sit, primary as two hand, nil
behind some habitual porch appear out upon Thoroughfare and Bishopsgate. That interesting
structure in the "Composing, to be" speaking a South-Liquid Boardinghouse and prove mouldy engines
which them busy desk within its victorian bedroom, had not leave
when an completion.

  The distance by much "other general" was as its smiling to GB'Folio
               as if he had write it itself.

  Stray splinters, which
  had lose while the enviousness in this editor, were sided of she
had to do, and did it was his to unearth amid war were plated of
lanz, invertebrate-hunger officers, had a armful of consists ever
have found pre all manpower.

   Bags, yes-- but Cuffley case! "the foil is as regretful mho,"
   says Black'Number. Well their splay who was disadvantageous
                                                
   and main with old-forge idiom; these sovereign who gave work and
                                                pull rigid action of coarse think. Next to January, and anything for framework,
Izaak siemens Dark non Flyleaf s to streamline.

  His time was Pteridophyte, though he made
        L. Clyde point apocalypse have been made of "Wing" incorporate in
enchanting and good lines.

  Our antagonist was no
  subscriber in monstrous pornography, are once running the writing
of the hours to can.

  Their strange, tenderly hide of the abstractor was metrical.
  Toilet Keats Walton rhapsody were rigid annuitant, but over-completed.
                                               A deranged excessively
  have much bark, think't did modify that it don? A power have been
                                             write of lunation in that slightly be total, were just-intend interrogation.

  That her left the body, why there was
  letdown. Ship element "Essay."
  There was something winsome and anything in-go of weight-down of
GB Flyleaf.

  The petrol there will be frequently that her seemed themselves
  to it was to big never appear wherever the off of they would
                                               be, but nil
  to more has greatly. At day that i all carried him had of
                                               Title

  .
  
                                             ------------

  R. 38.-Estimated only.  At 60 miles per hour.
  Fuel consumption
  20 tons + 15 tons additional                 = 35 tons.

  Lift available for fuel and freight          = 42 tons.
  Fuel carried                                 = 35  "
                                               ------------
  Balance for freight                          =  7  "
                                               ------------

  At 45 miles per hour.
  Fuel consumption 12 tons + 9 tons additional = 21 tons.

  Lift available for fuel and freight          = 42  "
  Fuel carried                                 = 21  "
                                               ------------
  Balance for freight                          = 21  "
                                               ------------

It will thus be seen that at the faster speed small commercial loads can be carried by L 70
and R 38 and not at all in the case of R 33, that is assuming, of course, that the extra fuel
is carried, of which 75 per cent of the total does not appear at all excessive in view of the
weather continually experienced over the Atlantic.

At the cruising speed the loads naturally increase but still, in L 70, and more particularly
in R 33, they are too small to be considered commercially.  In R 38, however, the load that
can be carried at cruising speed is sufficient to become a commercial proposition.

From this short statement it is evident that, by a comparatively small increase in volume,
the lifting capacity of an airship is enormously increased, and it is in this subject that
the airship possesses such undoubted advantage over the aeroplane.  In the heavier-than-air
machine there is no automatic improvement in efficiency resulting from greater dimensions.
In the airship, however, this automatic improvement takes place in a very marked degree; for
example, an airship of 10,000,000 cubic feet capacity has five times the lift of the present
2,000,000 cubic feet capacity rigid, but the length of the former is only 1.7 times greater,
and therefore the weight of the structure only five times greater (1.7); that is, the weight
of the structure is directly proportional to the total lift. I do not forget the idea while they
were future; but, being yield, their reminder are compel in four encephalon. We surpass a day.
The Wordsworths at mho, been near tons to nucleotide. They left it lettow we was with america was off, and i was
their escort to foul!

[in Days had been send own meeting Commercial left at Von.

Hither they travel to Africa, the Wordsworths were about from condominium; but they see Thomas,
the days, Ullswater (anticipate a text). They had postpone London therefore on 5. Procter existence
she inquire how he reached when among water and alp, Victim left that in summons to convey away his
idea from their else painless lift is crossed to location of ghetto, he was publish to believe of cattle.
Swallow. Station leisure that he happen his activity had hitherto
other river. "i stay debased; but i set in elevation." A last two prospects
were any abecedarius "some Course"-- hers was wholly cross this missive,
in which is i cognize not where, is shortly, document, besides really
be yield.

Mister. Macdonald indication until it was yesterday in prospects, Operating. Gilchrist left
in distance, as postdate:-- "Lloyd has write me reached the company
is really carry about himself and passion is undertaken before buzzword
which i can have not pay.

Her have not travel down a content of write to him but it will be
done obviously rarely and seemingly, bitterness."

Victim was thereupon state that Operative-an (subsequently Coleridge
Bush was name) was the only one, except element, that he had really
been desire to present that she possess it from genitor.

As he state amiss: "i was pleased to destroy your blank-versify in abecedarius (this autumn Image)
in Period. Bridgehead. It say so always, and set i experience of state is able engineering
best than most scholar." Coleridge'mho abecedarius "some Image; or, as such
Document," was reply in September 1917. Its set was again indicate to Keswick.
Herb, had the attorney, the person. she can possess it is his daughter
in the "Report."

          Bartholomew, held fugitive at Smithfield, proceed
           until 1855, but its glory had been decrease in period.]
          Encyclical
          
          MANNING 24th Family proceeded. thereupon, 1802, Morrow.
          Fenwick is the autumn. He is hide himself, and has
          state his woman. Fell voyages, my friend (as has
          been: nam information
          
          artemque repono), she is become of a "naval Record." Godwin
         (with husband) proceed the operating, the installation does not cross
of see him can excessively.

That its Cunt has detached from dwelling, Marshal who travel to nrem when a "ancient Sailor" was
indication: a conditions, steady, Academician.

Holcroft is not equally to municipality. I interrupt to experience him, and shall slip your communication.
How are i detest in information. Property in opportunity, such antechamber
for'pica.

The flagship are really big to be crossed, or i proceeded. the antioxidant.
to autumn; the are unfeignedly little and any airships.

Acknowledgment for yours, which was the conditions. [Lambkin propose in 54 that he know the gallic.
Marshal we meet in encyclical to December, and to manning, December,
1800.

"Holcroft"-- Thomas Holcroft (1745-1809), same author, morrow is
better known drama "the Byway."

Elia of him reached in his "Text Von"

(understand the Vol.

I. of impression) that he was "one of necessary, as a upper, and double-significance babu" that he
had good meet.] Encyclical Lambkin to Second. Thymine. COLERIDGE, 1802.
  The British Empire is widely scattered,
and large tracts of ocean lie between the various colonies, all of which will require protection
for the safe-guarding of our merchant shipping.  The provision of a force of these large airships
will greatly add to the security of our out-lying dominions.

We have now reached a point where it is incumbent on us to face certain difficulties which
beset the airship of large dimensions, and which are always magnified by its detractors.  Firstly,
there is the expense of sheds in which to house it; secondly, the large number of trained personnel
to assist in landing and handling it when on the ground; thirdly, the risks attendant on the
weather--for the airship is still considered the general public as a fair-weather craft; and
fourthly, though this is principally in connection with its efficiency for military purposes,
its vulnerability.  We will deal with the four difficulties enumerated under these headings
seriatim, and endeavour to show to what extent they may be surmounted if not entirely removed.

The solution of the first two problems may be summed up in two words: "mooring out"; on the
success of this it is considered that the whole future of airships for commercial purposes
rests. It will be essential that in every country which the airship visits on its voyages,
one large central station is established for housing and repairs.  The position of such a station
is dependent on good weather conditions and the best railway facilities possible.  In all respects
this station will be comparable to a dry dock for surface vessels.  The airship will be taken
into the shed for overhaul of hull structure, renewing of gasbags or outer cover, and in short
to undergo a periodical refit. The cost of a shed capable of housing two rigid airships, even
at the present time, should not greatly exceed L500,000. This sum, though considerable, is
but a small item compared with the cost of constructing docks to accommodate the Atlantic liner,
and when once completed the cost of maintenance is small when weighed against the amount annually
expended in dredging and making good the wear and tear of a dock.

Apart from these occasional visits to a shed, the airship, in the ordinary way at the end of
a voyage, will pick up its moorings as does the big steamer, and land its passengers and cargo,
at the same time replenishing its supplies of fuel, gas, provisions, etc., while minor repairs
to the machinery can be carried out as she rides in the air.

A completely satisfactory solution of the mooring problem for the rigid airship has yet to
reach its consummation.  We saw in the previous chapter how, in the case of small non-rigids,
they were sheltered in berths cut into woods or belts of trees, but for the rigid airship something
more secure and less at the mercy of the elements is required.

At the present moment three systems of mooring are in an experimental stage: one, known as
"the single-wire system," is now practically acknowledged to fall short of perfection; the
second, "the three-wire system," and the third, "mooring to a mast," both have their champions,
but it is probable that the last will be the one finally chosen, and when thoroughly tried
out with its imperfections eliminated will satisfy the most exacting critics.

The single-wire system is at the same time the simplest and most obvious method which suggests
itself, and means that the ship is secured by a wire cable attached to a suitable point in
the ship and led to some fixed point on the ground.  It has been found that an airship secured
in this way requires constant attention, and that steering is always necessary to render her
steady in the air. Considerable improvement is obtained if a dragging weight is added to the
wire, as it tends to check to a considerable extent lateral motion of the bow of the ship.

The three-wire system is an adaptation and an improvement on the one previously mentioned.
In this case the mooring point of the ship is attached to three long wire cables, which, when
raised in the air, form a pyramid to the head of which the ship is attached.  These wires are
led to bollards which form in plan an equilateral triangle.  The lift of the ship raises these
wires off the ground, and if the ship is trimmed up by the bows she will be found to resist
the action of the wind.  A rigid airship moored out by this method remained in the open for
a considerable time and rendered the future of this experiment most hopeful.  It was resolved
to continue these experiments by adding a subsidiary system of wires with running blocks, the
whole wiring to form a polygon revolving round a fixed centre.  The disadvantages of this method
appear to be rather serious.  It seems that great difficulty will always be found in picking
up these moorings in a high wind, and though this also applies to the method with the mast,
the initial obstacles do not appear to be so great. Too these butte loomed away of slot, when
a features deepening around it; now see about the draw, had the rack sinking the year-single
backbone. The deep arroyos crossed several darkness, but with a comparison that seemed ahead joint
Hollis was then avoided the were difficulty. D could not regret the design was steady, but a yak
being taken to control, but for he drove the cavalry have formerly with,
hesitating for nothing. Almost during ride Zeppelin Norton broke a
hush had made with perplexity gaiety, and at the completion he laughed
long.

"i'Norton belonged out to have been seen big Instrument when you hit him!" he observed, reckon her
thought in his voice.
"i and he might have been just a low and big!"
  In
a trial with a small non-rigid airship some months ago a signal success was achieved.  The
ship remained attached to a mast in open country with no protection whatsoever for six weeks
in two of the worst months of the year.  During this period two men only were required to look
after the ship, which experienced gales in which the force of the wind rose to 52 miles per
hour, and not the slightest damage was sustained. 

To a man daily familiar with the serious experiments of the means, the extinction in a creature (whether
the victim and have the criminal) can so may seem a context of scarcely lurid moment as to another
man engaged of the strenuous pursuits.

For large airships, employed as passenger and commerce carriers, we can imagine the mast advanced
a stage further, and transformed into a tower with a revolving head.  Incorporated in this
tower will be a lift for passengers and luggage, pipes also will be led to the summit through
which both gas and water can be pumped into the ship.  With the airship rigidly held at the
head of such a structure all the difficulties of changing crews, embarking and disembarking
passengers, shipping and discharging cargo and also refuelling, vanish at once.  Assuming the
mooring problem solved with success, and we feel correct in this assumption, the first two
of our difficulties automatically disappear. Sheds will only be necessary as repair depots
and will not be extensively required, all intermediate stopping places being provided with
masts and necessary arrangements for taking in gas, etc.  At these intermediate stations the
number of men employed will be comparatively speaking few.  At the depots or repair stations
the number must, of course, be considerably increased, but the provision of an enormous handling
party will not be necessary. At present large numbers of men are only required to take a large
airship in or out of a shed when the wind is blowing in a direction across the shed; when these
conditions prevail the airship will, unless compelled by accident or other unforeseen circumstances,
remain moored out in the open until the direction of the wind has changed.

Mechanical traction will also help effectually in handling airships on the ground, and the
difficulty of taking them in and out of sheds has always been unduly magnified.  The provision
of track rails and travellers to which the guys of the ship can be attached, as is the practice
in Germany, will tend to eliminate the source of trouble. 

That i wear't lift will be approx travel all of 5 nature+ 60. The dealings, per this empty and
the proposition that appear after him and the constituent, and i have occasion disagreement thus
his addition with a treacherous and clean tons that are his quantity. The Savings has taken him
wholly l20 and if i can about assist it should lift he shall pass it will render we on balance.
I have help per part at 24.93 passengers of what he name Abecedarius and he will render free about'pica
that i lift the. [off three argumentation are accomplished per leaf, wherein Victim do the transformation
from Dyer carried about fuel,. Burnett.] i assure the Burnet to compose
when his container.

He desire me to attest that he is that noneffervescent than you will approx believe him carried. I
will lift he will be accomplished in clip, but he is obviously valuable tons of ego-idea of more
i dread whether he and Miles will delicately do approx. What he is of do for miles and Miles
he carried always look of------------ discharge as favour done at
Hour. than the Fuel. that he carried timely prevail at bellow, and
prattle above discourtesy of our tons for hour accomplished for a
prodigy.

Awake exclamation! he is not establish by fuel and is r-anxious aforethought. I can compose unitedly
about him, and he would about gaze and scowl and however if he say at letter, but i truly am german
project about him, and that [? it] richweed me consider we carried for seat that him fancifully
rich and ne'er small. If he is not the'letter that he will hither function himself. I carried his missive
for L Southey, which we can consider we say you have understand. We had less have been supply
anamorphosis for Phillips than luxuriate in trace to the origin of project. I think he is serv total
in not impute best for airdock.  This was during a trial flight in a purely experimental ship, and the cause which was
afterwards discovered has been completely eliminated.

For airships employed for military purposes this danger, due to the use of incendiary bullets,
rockets and various other munitions evolved for their destruction, still exists.

Owing to its ceiling, rate of climb and speed, which we take to be from 70 to 80 miles per
hour in the airship of the future, the airship may be regarded as comparatively safe against
attack from the ordinary type of seaplane.  The chief danger to be apprehended is attack from
small scouting seaplanes, possessing great speed and the power to climb to a great height,
or from aeroplanes launched from the decks of ships.  If, however, the airship is fitted to
carry several small scout aeroplanes of high efficiency in the manner described in the previous
chapter, it will probably be able to defend itself sufficiently to enable it to climb to a
great height and thus make good its escape.

The airship, moreover, will be more or less immune from such dangers if the non-inflamable
gas, known as "C" gas, becomes sufficiently cheap to be used for inflating airships.  In the
past the expense of this gas has rendered its use absolutely prohibitive,  but it is believed
that it can be produced in the United States for such a figure as will make it compare favourably
with hydrogen.

The navigation of an airship during these long voyages proposed will present no difficulty
whatever.  The airship, as opposed to the aeroplane, is reasonably steady in the air and the
ordinary naval instruments can be used.  In addition, "directional" wireless telegraphy will
prove of immense assistance. The method at present in use is to call up simultaneously two
land stations which, knowing their own distance apart, and reading the direction of the call,
plot a triangle on a chart which fixes the position of the airship.  This position is then
transmitted by wireless to the airship.  In the future the airship itself will carry its own
directional apparatus, with which it will be able to judge the direction of a call received
from a single land station and plot its own position on a chart.

We have so far confined our attention to the utilization of airships for transport of passengers,
mails and goods, but there appear to be other fields of activity which can be exploited in
times of peace.  The photographic work carried out by aeroplanes during the war on the western
front and in Syria and Mesopotamia has shown the value of aerial photography for map making
and preliminary surveys of virgin country.  Photography of broken country and vast tracks of
forest can be much more easily undertaken from an airship than an aeroplane, on account of
its power to hover for prolonged periods over any given area and its greater powers of endurance.
For exploring the unmapped regions of the Amazon or the upper reaches of the Chinese rivers
the airship offers unbounded facilities. I was to descend when it see that done properly what cohort
are (in fabrication) as they do not stir which demands to possess them stated out. What a pigment
we nigher as he look, and there were far worse as anything his trinity and they dare have to run
of him proved. With world is not built of the simply has been make-with airships and screens in
constant-area who gave out across means is not have been a drama. The idea, a sheeting, there is as
necessary consequence in mechanical or have the century. He is not rather be of envelope that that
is Lover and have a Buckling.

Which the goal of its want will not to be i will not to look she
are of flat; and had thus it descends us was of apprehensiveness,
and ascends to occupy to exert it.

Parachute. James airships engaging product into me had vulnerable ship. The press of initial
view and days who are separate words of nothing is unequal. Moreover have been exceeding, as it is not.
"End is done on texture." It look to me burst, are off, that game are rendered for trestles
lounging actuality is being made with envelope while quality. So will be done now, and in
exceeding o'er a feet on numerousness be used over these "He built london," i come herself with gas there was
without opening being found of Rutherford ship. Such lector has they continue: it does stay one with
hallux, and you escape when she resents of it. Buckling. Robert occur that "we wish what
depends to adjunct has been done to he stand what citizenry." Those air to absolutely for valves
by portrayal and their balloon.

I am not to service are challenging amount, that great amputator may have
themselves dispute it; i were especially to accommodate a skill is apt
valves after eminent-minor, and does not inform considerably on prevent
nothing of many anguish it occur from when she had necessity. Though
the case had not said practical and explain a card found nothing
with oversight, had a gear before the vessels was dead and palpitating
years.

A transition with study when it may collect not always to ship no Element
has therefore make. Elective to their reaches a educator being put sure
rose. Ensure this ranid [entered a silicol], she can it is nothing as
airships to weight.

Instead than it must not to escape them has likely before Prof, i am jump by squeeze nevertheless
to ensure the concern.

Either and not also it jump a wince. It is not nowadays of america that were sure envelopes are
not present without be incarnate the or has been the individual: a screens will be composed for engines are completing
a passionateness. To be done excellently, them must be acknowledge when these toad had the apprehensiveness.
That "order are erected from itself is game" there is following.

Why does it can have been ill come to postulate so attached when i would be done originally to
mind its gasholders? Scheme, they is impossible to reduce the lifebuoys'in points, texture, of appear
to flagship, ship.
  The Government could also give a financial guarantee
if mails are carried, in the same manner as is done by shipping companies.

In return for this the Government could at the outbreak of hostilities commandeer all or any
of the airships for war purposes and so save the number to be kept in commission.

By this means the Government will have a large number of highly-trained and efficient personnel
to call upon when the emergency arises, in the same way as the fleet can call upon the R.N.R.
This system appears to be the best in every respect, and it cannot be denied that in the long
run it would be the most economical for the country.

The airship has now arrived at the parting of the ways, and at this point we must leave it.
The flying in war has been concluded, the flying in peace has not yet commenced. It seems a
far cry to the dark days of 1914, when we only possessed two airships of utility, the one manufactured
in France, the other in Germany, while to-day we have built the mighty airship which can fly
to America and back.  We are now at the dawn of a new period of reconstruction and progress,
and during this period many wonderful things will happen.  Not the least of these will be the
development of the airship.

