"I would, gentlemen," I cried, addressing them all, "that His Majesty were here to see how
you conduct your trials and defile his Courts. As for you, Monsieur le President, you violate
the sanctity of your office in giving way to anger; it is a thing unpardonable in a judge.
I have told you in plain terms, gentlemen, that I am not this Rene de Lesperon with whose crimes
you charge me. Yet, in spite of my denials, ignoring them, or setting them down either to a
futile attempt at defence or to an hallucination of which you suppose me the victim, you proceed
to lay those crimes to my charge, and when I deny your charges you speak of proofs that can
only apply to another.

"How shall the name of Lesperon having been found among the Duke of Montmorency's papers convict
me of treason, since I tell you that I am not Lesperon? Had you the slightest, the remotest
sense of your high duty, messieurs, you would ask me rather to explain how, if what I state
be true, I come to be confounded with Lesperon and arrested in his place. Then, messieurs,
you might seek to test the accuracy of what statements I may make; but to proceed as you are
proceeding is not to judge but to murder. Justice is represented as a virtuous woman with bandaged
eyes, holding impartial scales; in your hands, gentlemen, by my soul, she is become a very
harlot clutching a veil."

Chatellerault's cynical smile grew broader as my speech proceeded and stirred up the rancour
in the hearts of those august gentlemen. The Keeper of the Seals went white and red by turns,
and when I paused there was an impressive silence that lasted for some moments. At last the
President leant over to confer in a whisper with Chatellerault. Then, in a voice forcedly calm--like
the calm of Nature when thunder is brewing--he asked me, "Who do you insist that you are, monsieur?"

"Once already have I told you, and I venture to think that mine is a name not easily forgotten.

A cunning grin parted his thin lips.

"Have you any witnesses to identify you?"

"Hundreds, monsieur!" I answered eagerly, seeing salvation already within my grasp.

"Name some of them."

"I will name one--one whose word you will not dare to doubt."

"That is?"

"His Majesty the King. I am told that he is on his way to Toulouse, and I but ask, messieurs,
that you await his arrival before going further with my trial."

"Is there no other witness of whom you can think, monsieur? Some witness that might be produced
more readily. For if you can, indeed, establish the identity you claim, why should you languish
in prison for some weeks?"

His voice was soft and oily. The anger had all departed out of it, which I--like a fool--imagined
to be due to my mention of the King.

"My friends, Monsieur le Garde des Sceaux, are all either in Paris or in His Majesty's train,
and so not likely to be here before him. There is my intendant, Rodenard, and there are my
servants--some twenty of them--who may perhaps be still in Languedoc, and for whom I would
entreat you to seek. Them you might succeed in finding within a few days if they have not yet
determined to return to Paris in the belief that I am dead."

He stroked his chin meditatively, his eyes raised to the sunlit dome of glass overhead.

"Ah-h!" he gasped. It was a long-drawn sigh of regret, of conclusion, or of weary impatience.
"There is no one in Toulouse who will swear to your identity monsieur?" he asked.

"I am afraid there is not," I replied. "I know of no one."

As I uttered those words the President's countenance changed as abruptly as if he had flung
off a mask. From soft and cat-like that he had been during the past few moments, he grew of
a sudden savage as a tiger. He leapt to his feet, his face crimson, his eyes seeming to blaze,
and the words he spoke came now in a hot, confused, and almost incoherent torrent.

"Miserable!" he roared, "out of your own mouth have you convicted yourself. And to think that
you should have stood there and wasted the time of this Court--His Majesty's time--with your
damnable falsehoods! What purpose did you think to serve by delaying your doom? Did you imagine
that haply, whilst we sent to Paris for your witnesses, the King might grow weary of justice,
and in some fit of clemency announce a general pardon? Such things have been known, and it
may be that in your cunning you played for such a gain based upon such a hope. But justice,
fool, is not to be cozened. Had you, indeed, been Bardelys, you had seen that here in this
court sits a gentleman who is very intimate with him. He is there, monsieur; that is Monsieur
le Comte de Chatellerault, of whom perhaps you may have heard. Yet, when I ask you whether
in Toulouse there is any one who can bear witness to your identity, you answer me that you
know of no one. I will waste no more time with you, I promise you."

He flung himself back into his chair like a man exhausted, and mopped his brow with a great
kerchief which he had drawn from his robes. His fellow judges laid their heads together, and
with smiles and nods, winks and leers, they discussed and admired the miraculous subtlety and
acumen of this Solomon. Chatellerault sat, calmly smiling, in solemn mockery.

For a spell I was too thunderstruck to speak, aghast at this catastrophe. Like a fool, indeed,
I had tumbled into the pit that had been dug for me by Chatellerault for I never doubted that
it was of his contriving. At last, "My masters," said I, "these conclusions may appear to you
most plausible, but, believe me, they are fallacious. I am perfectly acquainted with Monsieur
de Chatellerault, and he with me, and if he were to speak the truth and play the man and the
gentleman for once, he would tell you that I am, indeed, Bardelys. But Monsieur le Comte has
ends of his own to serve in sending me to my doom. It is in a sense through his agency that
I am at present in this position, and that I have been confounded with Lesperon. What, then,
could it have availed me to have made appeal to him? And yet, Monsieur le President, he was
born a gentleman, and he may still retain some notion of honour. Ask him, sir--ask him point-blank,
whether I am or not Marcel de Bardelys."

The firmness of my tones created some impression upon those feeble minds. Indeed, the President
went so far as to turn an interrogative glance upon the Count. But Chatellerault, supremely
master of the situation, shrugged his shoulders, and smiled a pitying, long-suffering smile.

"Must I really answer such a question, Monsieur le President?" he inquired in a voice and with
a manner that clearly implied how low would be his estimate of the President's intelligence
if he were, indeed, constrained to do so.

"But no, Monsieur le Comte," replied the President with sudden haste, and in scornful rejection
of the idea. "There is no necessity that you should answer."

"But the question, Monsieur le President!" I thundered, my hand outstretched towards Chatellerault.
"Ask him--if you have any sense of your duty--ask him am I not Marcel de Bardelys."

"Silence!" blazed the President back at me. "You shall not fool us any longer, you nimble-witted
liar!"

My head drooped. This coward had, indeed, shattered my last hope.

"Some day, monsieur," I said very quietly, "I promise you that your behaviour and these gratuitous
insults shall cost you your position. Pray God they do not cost you also your head!"

My words they treated as one might treat the threats of a child. That I should have had the
temerity to utter them did but serve finally to decide my doom, if, indeed, anything had been
wanting.

With many epithets of opprobrium, such as are applied to malefactors of the lowest degree,
they passed sentence of death upon me, and with drooping spirits, giving myself up for lost
and assured that I should be led to the block before many hours were sped, I permitted them
to reconduct me through the streets of Toulouse to my prison.

I could entertain you at length upon my sensations as I walked between my guards, a man on
the threshold of eternity, with hundreds of men and women gaping at me--men and women who would
live for years to gape upon many another wretch in my position. The sun shone with a brilliance
that to such eyes as mine was a very mockery. Thus would it shine on through centuries, and
light many another unfortunate to the scaffold. The very sky seemed pitiless in the intensity
of its cobalt. Unfeeling I deemed the note that everywhere was struck by man and Nature, so
discordant was it with my gloomy outlook. If you would have food for reflection upon the evanescent
quality of life, upon the nothingness of man, upon the empty, heartless egoism implicit in
human nature, get yourselves sentenced to death, and then look around you. With such a force
was all this borne in upon me, and with such sufficiency, that after the first pang was spent
I went near to rejoicing that things were as they were, and that I was to die, haply before
sunset. It was become such a world as did not seem worth a man's while to live in: a world
of vainness, of hollowness, of meanness, of nothing but illusions. The knowledge that I was
about to die, that I was about to quit all this, seemed to have torn some veil from my eyes,
and to have permitted me to recognize the worthless quality of what I left. Well may it be
that such are but the thoughts of a man's dying moments, whispered into his soul by a merciful
God to predispose him for the wrench and agony of his passing.

I had been a half-hour in my cell when the door was opened to admit Castelroux, whom I had
not seen since the night before. He came to condole with me in my extremity, and yet to bid
me not utterly lose hope.

"It is too late to-day to carry out the sentence," said he, "and as to-morrow will be Sunday,
you will have until the day after. By then much may betide, monsieur. My agents are everywhere
scouring the province for your servants, and let us pray Heaven that they may succeed in their
search."

"It is a forlorn hope, Monsieur de Castelroux," I sighed, "and I will pin no faith to it lest
I suffer a disappointment that will embitter my last moments, and perhaps rob me of some of
the fortitude I shall have need of."

He answered me, nevertheless, with words of encouragement. No effort was being spared, and
if Rodenard and my men were still in Languedoc then was every likelihood that they would be
brought to Toulouse in time. Then he added that that, however, was not the sole object of his
visit. A lady had obtained permission of the Keeper of the Seals to visit me, and she was waiting
to be admitted.

"A lady?" I exclaimed, and the thought of Roxalanne flitted through my mind. "Mademoiselle
de Lavedan?" I inquired.

He nodded. "Yes," said he; then added, "She seems in sore affliction, monsieur."

I besought him to admit her forthwith, and presently she came. Castelroux closed the door as
he withdrew, and we were left alone together. As she put aside her cloak, and disclosed to
me the pallor of her face and the disfiguring red about her gentle eyes, telling of tears and
sleeplessness, all my own trouble seemed to vanish in the contemplation of her affliction.

We stood a moment confronting each other with no word spoken. Then, dropping her glance, and
advancing a step, in a faltering, hesitating manner "Monsieur, monsieur," she murmured in a
suffocating voice.

In a bound I was beside her, and I had gathered her in my arms, her little brown head against
my shoulder.

"Roxalanne!" I whispered as soothingly as I might--"Roxalanne!"

But she struggled to be free of my embrace.

"Let me go, monsieur," she pleaded, a curious shrinking in her very voice. "Do not touch me,
monsieur. You do not know--you do not know."

For answer, I enfolded her more tightly still.

"But I do know, little one," I whispered; "and I even understand."

At that, her struggles ceased upon the instant, and she seemed to lie limp and helpless in my arms.

"You know, monsieur," she questioned me--"you know that I betrayed you?"

"Yes," I answered simply.

"And you can forgive me? I am sending you to your death and you have no reproaches for me!
Oh, monsieur, it will kill me!"

"Hush, child!" I whispered. "What reproaches can I have for you? I know the motives that impelled
you."

"Not altogether, monsieur; you cannot know them. I loved you, monsieur. I do love you, monsieur.
Oh! this is not a time to consider words. If I am bold and unmaidenly, I--I--"

"Neither bold nor unmaidenly, but--oh, the sweetest damsel in all France, my Roxalanne!" I
broke in, coming to her aid. "Mine was a leprous, sinful soul, child, when I came into Languedoc.
I had no faith in any human good, and I looked as little for an honest man or a virtuous woman
as one looks for honey in a nettle. I was soured, and my life had hardly been such a life as
it was meet to bring into contact with your own. Then, among the roses at Lavedan, in your
dear company, Roxalanne, it seemed that some of the good, some of the sweetness, some of the
purity about you were infused anew into my heart. I became young again, and I seemed oddly
cleansed. In that hour of my rejuvenation I loved you, Roxalanne."

Her face had been raised to mine as I spoke. There came now a flutter of the eyelids, a curious
smile about the lips. Then her head drooped again and was laid against my breast; a sigh escaped
her, and she began to weep softly.

"Nay, Roxalanne, do not fret. Come, child, it is not your way to be weak."

"I have betrayed you!" she moaned. "I am sending you to your death!"

"I understand, I understand," I answered, smoothing her brown hair.

"Not quite, monsieur. I loved you so, monsieur, that you can have no thought of how I suffered
that morning when Mademoiselle de Marsac came to Lavedan.

"At first it was but the pain of thinking that--that I was about to lose you; that you were
to go out of my life, and that I should see you no more--you whom I had enshrined so in my heart.

"I called myself a little fool that morning for having dreamed that you had come to care for
me; my vanity I thought had deluded me into imagining that your manner towards me had a tenderness
that spoke of affection. I was bitter with myself, and I suffered oh, so much! Then later,
when I was in the rose garden, you came to me.

"You remember how you seized me, and how by your manner you showed me that it was not vanity
alone had misled me. You had fooled me, I thought; even in that hour I imagined you were fooling
me; you made light of me; and my sufferings were naught to you so that I might give you some
amusement to pass the leisure and monotony of your sojourn with us."

"Roxalanne--my poor Roxalanne!" I whispered.

"Then my bitterness and sorrow all turned to anger against you. You had broken my heart, and
I thought that you had done it wantonly. For that I burned to punish you. Ah! and not only
that, perhaps. I think, too, that some jealousy drove me on. You had wooed and slighted me,
yet you had made me love you, and if you were not for me I swore you should be for no other.
And so, while my madness endured, I quitted Lavedan, and telling my father that I was going
to Auch, to his sister's house, I came to Toulouse and betrayed you to the Keeper of the Seals.

"Scarce was the thing done than I beheld the horror of it, and I hated myself. In my despair,
I abandoned all idea of pursuing the journey to Auch, but turned and made my way back in haste,
hoping that I might still come to warn you. But at Grenade I met you already in charge of the
soldiers. At Grenade, too I learnt the truth--that you were not Lesperon. Can you not guess
something of my anguish then? Already loathing my act, and beside myself for having betrayed
you, think into what despair I was plunged by Monsieur de Marsac's intimation.

"Then I understood that for reasons of your own you had concealed your identity. You were not
perhaps, betrothed; indeed, I remembered then how, solemnly you had sworn that you were not;
and so I bethought me that your vows to me may have been sincere and such as a maid might honourably
listen to."

"They were, Roxalanne! they were!" I cried.

But she continued "That you had Mademoiselle de Marsac's portrait was something that I could
not explain; but then I hear that you had also Lesperon's papers upon you; so that you may
have become possessed of the one with the others. And now, monsieur--"

She ceased, and there against my breast she lay weeping and weeping in her bitter passion of
regret, until it seemed to me she would never regain her self-control.

"It has been all my fault, Roxalanne," said I, "and if I am to pay the price they are exacting,
it will be none too high. I embarked upon a dastardly business; which brought me to Languedoc
under false colours. I wish, indeed, that I had told you when first the impulse to tell you
came upon me. Afterwards it grew impossible."

"Tell me now," she begged. "Tell me who you are."

Sorely was I tempted to respond. Almost was I on the point of doing so, when suddenly the thought
of how she might shrink from me, of how, even then, she might come to think that I had but
simulated love for her for infamous purposes of gain, restrained and silenced me. During the
few hours of life that might be left me I would at least be lord and master of her heart. When
I was dead--for I had little hope of Castelroux's efforts--it would matter less, and perhaps
because I was dead she would be merciful.

"I cannot, Roxalanne. Not even now. It is too vile! If--if they carry out the sentence on Monday,
I shall leave a letter for you, telling you everything."

She shuddered, and a sob escaped her. From my identity her mind fled back to the more important
matter of my fate.

"They will not carry it out, monsieur! Oh, they till not! Say that you can defend yourself,
that you are not the man they believe you to be!"

"We are in God's hands, child. It may be that I shall save myself yet. If I do, I shall come
straight to you, and you shall know all that there is to know. But, remember, child"--and raising
her face in my hands, I looked down into the blue of her tearful eyes--"remember, little one,
that in one thing I have been true and honourable, and influenced by nothing but my heart--in
my wooing of you. I love you, Roxalanne, with all my soul, and if I should die you are the
only thing in all this world that I experience a regret at leaving."

"I do believe it; I do, indeed. Nothing can ever alter my belief again. Will you not, then,
tell me who you are, and what is this thing, which you call dishonourable, that brought you
into Languedoc?"

A moment again I pondered. Then I shook my head.

"Wait, child," said I; and she, obedient to my wishes, asked no more.

It was the second time that I neglected a favourable opportunity of making that confession,
and as I had regretted having allowed the first occasion to pass unprofited, so was I, and
still more poignantly, to regret this second silence.

A little while she stayed with me yet, and I sought to instil some measure of comfort into
her soul. I spoke of the hopes that I based upon Castelroux's finding friends to recognize
me--hopes that were passing slender. And she, poor child, sought also to cheer me and give
me courage.

"If only the King were here!" she sighed. "I would go to him, and on my knees I would plead
for your enlargement. But they say he is no nearer than Lyons; and I could not hope to get
there and back by Monday. I will go to the Keeper of the Seals again, monsieur, and I will
beg him to be merciful, and at least to delay the sentence."

I did not discourage her; I did not speak of the futility of such a step. But I begged her
to remain in Toulouse until Monday, that she might visit me again before the end, if the end
were to become inevitable.

Then Castelroux came to reconduct her, and we parted. But she left me a great consolation,
a great strengthening comfort. If I were destined, indeed, to walk to the scaffold, it seemed
that I could do it with a better grace and a gladder courage now.

CHAPTER XIII. THE ELEVENTH HOUR

Castelroux visited me upon the following morning, but he brought no news that might be accounted
encouraging. None of his messengers were yet returned, nor had any sent word that they were
upon the trail of my followers. My heart sank a little, and such hope as I still fostered was
fast perishing. Indeed, so imminent did my doom appear and so unavoidable, that later in the
day I asked for pen and paper that I might make an attempt at setting my earthly affairs to
rights. Yet when the writing materials were brought me, I wrote not. I sat instead with the
feathered end of my quill between my teeth, and thus pondered the matter of the disposal of
my Picardy estates.

Coldly I weighed the wording of the wager and the events that had transpired, and I came at
length to the conclusion that Chatellerault could not be held to have the least claim upon
my lands. That he had cheated at the very outset, as I have earlier shown, was of less account
than that he had been instrumental in violently hindering me.

I took at last the resolve to indite a full memoir of the transaction, and to request Castelroux
to see that it was delivered to the King himself. Thus not only would justice be done, but
I should--though tardily--be even with the Count. No doubt he relied upon his power to make
a thorough search for such papers as I might leave, and to destroy everything that might afford
indication of my true identity. But he had not counted upon the good feeling that had sprung
up betwixt the little Gascon captain and me, nor yet upon my having contrived to convince the
latter that I was, indeed, Bardelys, and he little dreamt of such a step as I was about to
take to ensure his punishment hereafter.

Resolved at last, I was commencing to write when my attention was arrested by an unusual sound.
It was at first no more than a murmuring noise, as of at sea breaking upon its shore. Gradually
it grew its volume and assumed the shape of human voices raised in lusty clamour. Then, above
the din of the populace, a gun boomed out, then another, and another.

I sprang up at that, and, wondering what might be toward, I crossed to my barred window and
stood there listening. I overlooked the courtyard of the jail, and I could see some commotion
below, in sympathy, as it were, with the greater commotion without.

Presently, as the populace drew nearer, it seemed to me that the shouting was of acclamation.
Next I caught a blare of trumpets, and, lastly, I was able to distinguish above the noise,
which had now grown to monstrous proportions, the clattering hoofs of some cavalcade that was
riding past the prison doors.

It was borne in upon me that some great personage was arriving in Toulouse, and my first thought
was of the King. At the idea of such a possibility my brain whirled and I grew dizzy with hope.
The next moment I recalled that but last night Roxalanne had told me that he was no nearer
than Lyons, and so I put the thought from me, and the hope with it, for, travelling in that
leisurely, indolent fashion that was characteristic of his every action, it would be a miracle
if His Majesty should reach Toulouse before the week was out, and this but Sunday.

The populace passed on, then seemed to halt, and at last the shouts died down on the noontide
air. I went back to my writing, and to wait until from my jailer, when next he should chance
to appear, I might learn the meaning of that uproar.

An hour perhaps went by, and I had made some progress with my memoir, when my door was opened
and the cheery voice of Castelroux greeted me from the threshold.

"Monsieur, I have brought a friend to see you."

I turned in my chair, and one glance at the gentle, comely face and the fair hair of the young
man standing beside Castelroux was enough to bring me of a sudden to my feet.

"Mironsac!" I shouted, and sprang towards him with hands outstretched.

But though my joy was great and my surprise profound, greater still was the bewilderment that
in Mironsac's face I saw depicted.

"Monsieur de Bardelys!" he exclaimed, and a hundred questions were contained in his astonished
eyes.

"Po' Cap de Dieu!" growled his cousin, "I was well advised, it seems, to have brought you."

"But," Mironsac asked his cousin, as he took my hands in his own, "why did you not tell me,
Amedee, that it was to Monsieur le Marquis de Bardelys that you were conducting me?"

"Would you have had me spoil so pleasant a surprise?" his cousin demanded.

"Armand," said I, "never was a man more welcome than are you. You are but come in time to save
my life."

And then, in answer to his questions, I told him briefly of all that had befallen me since
that night in Paris when the wager had been laid, and of how, through the cunning silence of
Chatellerault, I was now upon the very threshold of the scaffold. His wrath burst forth at
that, and what he said of the Count did me good to hear. At last I stemmed his invective.

"Let that be for the present, Mironsac," I laughed. "You are here, and you can thwart all Chatellerault's
designs by witnessing to my identity before the Keeper of the Seals."

And then of a sudden a doubt closed like a cold hand upon my brain. I turned to Castelroux.

"Mon Dieu!" I cried. "What if they were to deny me a fresh trial?"

"Deny it you!" he laughed. "They will not be asked to grant you one."

"There will be no need," added Mironsac. "I have but to tell the King--"

"But, my friend," I exclaimed impatiently, "I am to die in the morning!"

"And the King shall be told to-day--now, at once. I will go to him."

I stared askance a moment; then the thought of the uproar that I had heard recurring to me,
"Has the King arrived already?" I exclaimed.

"Naturally, monsieur. How else do I come to be here? I am in His Majesty's train."

At that I grew again impatient. I thought of Roxalanne and of how she must be suffering, and
I bethought me that every moment Mironsac now remained in my cell was another moment of torture
for that poor child. So I urged him to be gone at once and carry news of my confinement to
His Majesty. He obeyed me, and I was left alone once more, to pace up and down in my narrow
cell, a prey to an excitement such as I should have thought I had outlived.

At the end of a half-hour Castelroux returned alone.

"Well?" I cried the moment the door opened, and without giving him so much as time to enter.
"What news?"

"Mironsac tells me that His Majesty is more overwrought than he has ever seen him. You are
to come to the Palace at once. I have an order here from the King."

We went in a coach, and with all privacy, for he informed me that His Majesty desired the affair
to be kept secret, having ends of his own to serve thereby.

I was left to wait some moments in an ante-chamber, whilst Castelroux announced me to the King;
then I was ushered into a small apartment, furnished very sumptuously in crimson and gold,
and evidently set apart for His Majesty's studies or devotions. As I entered, Louis's back
was towards me. He was standing--a tall, spare figure in black--leaning against the frame of
a window, his head supported on his raised left arm and his eyes intent upon the gardens below.

He remained so until Castelroux had withdrawn and the door had closed again; then, turning
suddenly, he confronted me, his back to the light, so that his face was in a shadow that heightened
its gloom and wonted weariness.

"Voila, Monsieur de Bardelys!" was his greeting, and unfriendly. "See the pass to which your
disobedience of my commands has brought you."

"I would submit, Sire," I answered, "that I have been brought to it by the incompetence of
Your Majesty's judges and the ill-will of others whom Your Majesty honours with too great a
confidence, rather than by this same disobedience of mine."

"The one and the other, perhaps," he said more softly. "Though, after all, they appear to have
had a very keen nose for a traitor. Come, Bardelys, confess yourself that."

"I? A traitor?"

He shrugged his shoulders, and laughed without any conspicuous mirth.

"Is not a traitor one who runs counter to the wishes; of his King? And are you not, therefore,
a traitor, whether they call you Lesperon or Bardelys? But there," he ended more softly still,
and flinging himself into a chair as he spoke, "I have been so wearied since you left me, Marcel.
They have the best intentions in the world, these dullards, and some of them love me even;
but they are tiresome all. Even Chatellerault, when he has a fancy for a jest--as in your case
perpetrates it with the grace of a bear, the sprightliness of an elephant."

"Jest?" said I.

"You find it no jest, Marcel? Pardieu, who shall blame you? He would be a man of unhealthy
humour that could relish such a pleasantry as that of being sentenced to death. But tell me
of it. The whole story, Marcel. I have not heard a story worth the listening to since--since
you left us."

"Would it please you, Sire, to send for the Comte de Chatellerault ere I begin?" I asked.

"Chatellerault? No, no." He shook his head whimsically. "Chatellerault has had his laugh already,
and, like the ill-mannered dog he is, he has kept it to himself. I think, Marcel, that it is
our turn now. I have purposely sent Chatellerault away that he may gain no notion of the catastrophic
jest we are preparing him in return."

The words set me in the very best of humours, and to that it may be due that presently, as
I warmed to my narrative, I lent it a vigour that drew His Majesty out of his wonted apathy
and listlessness. He leaned forward when I told him of my encounter with the dragoons at Mirepoix,
and how first I had committed the false step of representing myself to be Lesperon.

Encouraged by his interest, I proceeded, and I told my story with as much piquancy as I was
master of, repressing only those slight matters which might reflect upon Monsieur de Lavedan's
loyalty, but otherwise dealing frankly with His Majesty, even down to the genuineness of the
feelings I entertained for Roxalanne. Often he laughed, more often still he nodded approvingly,
in understanding and sympathy, whilst now and then he purred his applause. But towards the
end, when I came to the matter of the Tribunal of Toulouse, of how my trial was conducted,
and of the part played in it by Chatellerault, his face grew set and hard.

"It is true--all this that you tell me?" he cried harshly.

"As true as the Gospels. If you deem an oath necessary, Sire, I swear by my honour that I have
uttered nothing that is false, and that, in connection with Monsieur de Chatellerault, even
as I have suppressed nothing, so also have I exaggerated nothing."

"The dastard!" he snapped. "But we will avenge you, Marcel. Never fear it."

Then the trend of his thoughts being changed, he smiled wearily.

"By my faith, you may thank God every night of your worthless life that I came so opportunely
to Toulouse, and so may that fair child whose beauty you have limned with such a lover's ardour.
Nay, never redden, Marcel. What? At your age, and with such a heavy score of affaires to your
credit, has it been left for a simple Languedoc maiden to call a blush to your callous cheek?
Ma foi, they say truly that love is a great regenerator, a great rejuvenator!"

I made him no answer other than a sigh, for his words set me thinking, and with thought came
a tempering of the gay humour that had pervaded me. Remarking this, and misreading it, he laughed
outright.

"There, Marcel, never fear. We will not be rigorous. You have won both the maid and the wager,
and, by the Mass, you shall enjoy both."

"Helas, Sire," I sighed again, "when the lady comes to know of the wager--"

"Waste no time in telling her, Marcel, and cast yourself upon her mercy. Nay, go not with so
gloomy a face, my friend. When woman loves, she can be very merciful; leastways, they tell me so."

Then, his thoughts shifting ground once more, he grew stern again.

"But first we have Chatellerault to deal with. What shall we do with him?"

"It is for Your Majesty to decide."

"For me?" he cried, his voice resuming the harshness that was never far from it. "I have a
fancy for having gentlemen about me. Think you I will set eyes again upon that dastard? I am
already resolved concerning him, but it entered my mind that it might please you to be the
instrument of the law for me."

"Me, Sire?"

"Aye, and why not? They say you can play a very deadly sword upon necessity. This is an occasion
that demands an exception from our edict. You have my sanction to send the Comte de Chatellerault
a challenge. And see that you kill him, Bardelys!" he continued viciously. "For, by the Mass,
if you don't, I will! If he escapes your sword, or if he survives such hurt as you may do him,
the headsman shall have him. Mordieu! is it for nothing that I am called Louis the Just?"

I stood in thought for a moment. Then--

"If I do this thing, Sire," I ventured, "the world will say of me that I did so to escape the
payment I had incurred."

"Fool, you have not incurred it. When a man cheats, does he not forfeit all his rights?"

"That is very true. But the world--"

"Peste!" he snapped impatiently, "you are beginning to weary me, Marcel--and all the world
does that so excellently that it needs not your collaboration. Go your ways, man, and do as
you elect. But take my sanction to slay this fellow Chatellerault, and I shall be the better
pleased if you avail yourself of it. He is lodged at the Auberge Royale, where probably you
will find him at present. Now, go. I have more justice to dispense in this rebellious province."

I paused a moment.

"Shall I not resume my duties near Your Majesty?"

He pondered a moment, then he smiled in his weary way.

"It would please me to have you, for these creatures are so dismally dull, all of them. Je
m'ennuie tellement, Marcel!" he sighed. "Ough! But, no, my friend, I do not doubt you would
be as dull as any of them at present. A man in love is the weariest and most futile thing in
all this weary, futile world. What shall I do with your body what time your soul is at Lavedan?
I doubt me you are in haste to get you there. So go, Marcel. Get you wed, and live out your
amorous intoxication; marriage is the best antidote. When that is done, return to me."

"That will be never, Sire," I answered slyly.

"Say you so, Master Cupid Bardelys?" And he combed his beard reflectively. "Be not too sure.
There have been other passions--aye, as great as yours--yet have they staled. But you waste
my time. Go, Marcel; you are excused your duties by me for as long as your own affairs shall
hold you elsewhere--for as long as you please. We are here upon a gloomy business--as you know.
There are my cousin Montmorency and the others to be dealt with, and we are holding no levees,
countenancing no revels. But come to me when you will, and I will see you. Adieu!"

I murmured my thanks, and very deep and sincere were they. Then, having kissed his hand, I
left him.

Louis XIII is a man who lacks not maligners. Of how history may come to speak of him it is
not mine to hazard. But this I can say, that I, at least, did never find him other than a just
and kindly master, an upright gentleman, capricious at times and wilful, as must inevitably
be the case with such spoilt children of fortune as are princes, but of lofty ideals and high
principles. It was his worst fault that he was always tired, and through that everlasting weariness
he came to entrust the determining of most affairs to His Eminence. Hence has it resulted that
the censure for many questionable acts of his reign, which were the work of my Lord Cardinal,
has recoiled upon my august master's head.

But to me, with all the faults that may be assigned him, he was ever Louis the Just, and wherever
his name be mentioned in my hearing, I bare my head.

CHAPTER XIV. EAVESDROPPING

I turned it over in my mind, after I had left the King's presence, whether or not I should
visit with my own hands upon Chatellerault the punishment he had so fully earned. That I would
have gone about the task rejoicing you may readily imagine; but there was that accursed wager,
and--to restrain me--the thought of how such an action might be construed into an evasion of
its consequences. Better a thousand times that His Majesty should order his arrest and deal
with him for his attempted perversion of justice to the service of his own vile ends. The charge
of having abused his trust as King's commissioner to the extent of seeking to do murder through
the channels of the Tribunal was one that could not fail to have fatal results for him--as,
indeed, the King had sworn.

That was the position of affairs as it concerned Chatellerault, the world, and me. But the
position must also be considered as it concerned Roxalanne, and deeply, indeed, did I so consider
it. Much pondering brought me again to the conclusion that until I had made the only atonement
in my power, the only atonement that would leave me with clean hands, I must not again approach
her.

Whether Chatellerault had cheated or not could not affect the question as it concerned Mademoiselle
and me. If I paid the wager--whether in honour bound to do so or not--I might then go to her,
impoverished, it is true, but at least with no suspicion attaching to my suit of any ulterior
object other than that of winning Roxalanne herself.

I could then make confession, and surely the fact that I had paid where clearly there was no
longer any need to pay must earn me forgiveness and afford proof of the sincerity of my passion.

Upon such a course, then, did I decide, and, with this end in view, I took my way towards the
Auberge Royale, where His Majesty had told me that the Count was lodged. It was my purpose
to show myself fully aware of the treacherous and unworthy part he had played at the very inception
of the affair, and that if I chose to consider the wager lost it was that I might the more
honestly win the lady.

Upon inquiring at the hostelry for Monsieur de Chatellerault I was informed by the servant
I addressed that he was within, but that at the moment he had a visitor. I replied that I would
wait, and demanded a private room, since I desired to avoid meeting any Court acquaintances
who might chance into the auberge before I had seen the Count.

My apparel at the moment may not have been all that could have been desired, but when a gentleman's
rearing has taken place amid an army of servitors to minister to his every wish, he is likely
to have acquired an air that is wont to win him obedience. With all celerity was I ushered
into a small chamber, opening on the one side upon the common room, and being divided on the
other by the thinnest of wooden partitions from the adjoining apartment.

Here, the landlord having left me, I disposed myself to wait, and here I did a thing I would
not have believed myself capable of doing, a thing I cannot think of without blushing to this
very day. In short, I played the eavesdropper--I, Marcel Saint-Pol de Bardelys. Yet, if you
who read and are nice-minded, shudder at this confession, or, worse still, shrug your shoulders
in contempt, with the reflection that such former conduct of mine as I have avowed had already
partly disposed you against surprise at this I do but ask that you measure my sin by my temptation,
and think honestly whether in my position you might not yourselves have fallen. Aye--be you
never so noble and high-principled--I make bold to say that you had done no less, for the voice
that penetrated to my ears was that of Roxalanne de Lavedan.

"I sought an audience with the King," she was saying, "but I could not gain his presence. They
told me that he was holding no levees, and that he refused to see any one not introduced by
one of those having the private entree."

"And so," answered the voice of Chatellerault, in tones that were perfectly colourless, "you
come to me that I may present you to his Majesty?"

"You have guessed it, Monsieur le Comte. You are the only gentleman of His Majesty's suite,
with whom I can claim acquaintance--however slight--and, moreover, it is well known how high
you stand in his royal favour. I was told that they that have a boon to crave can find no better
sponsor."

"Had you gone to the King, mademoiselle," said he, "had you gained audience, he would have
directed you to make your appeal to me. I am his Commissioner in Languedoc, and the prisoners
attainted with high treason are my property."

"Why then, monsieur," she cried in an eager voice, that set my pulses throbbing, "you'll not
deny me the boon I crave? You'll not deny me his life?"

There was a short laugh from Chatellerault, and I could hear the deliberate fall of his feet
as he paced the chamber.

"Mademoiselle, mademoiselle, you must not overrate my powers. You must not forget that I am
the slave of Justice. You may be asking more than is in my power to grant. What can you advance
to show that I should be justified in proceeding as you wish?"

"Helas, monsieur, I can advance nothing but my prayers and the assurance that a hideous mistake
is being made."

"What is your interest in this Monsieur de Lesperon?"

"He is not Monsieur de Lesperon," she cried.

"But, since you cannot tell me who he is, you must be content that we speak of him at least
as Lesperon," said he, and I could imagine the evil grin with which he would accompany the words.

The better that you may appreciate that which followed, let me here impart to you the suspicions
which were already sinking into my mind, to be changed later into absolute convictions touching
the course the Count intended to pursue concerning me. The sudden arrival of the King had thrown
him into some measure of panic, and no longer daring to carry out his plans concerning me,
it was his object, I made no doubt, to set me at liberty that very evening. Ere he did so,
however, and presuming upon my ignorance of His Majesty's presence in Toulouse, Chatellerault
would of a certainty have bound me down by solemn promise--making that promise the price of
my liberty and my life--to breathe no word of my captivity and trial. No doubt, his cunning
brain would have advanced me plausible and convincing reasons so to engage myself.

He had not calculated upon Castelroux, nor that the King should already have heard of my detention.
Now that Roxalanne came to entreat him to do that which already he saw himself forced to do,
he turned his attention to the profit that he might derive from her interestedness on my behalf.
I could guess also something of the jealous rage that must fill him at this signal proof of
my success with her, and already I anticipated, I think, the bargain that he would drive.

"Tell me, then," he was repeating, "what is your interest in this gentleman?"

There was a silence. I could imagine her gentle face clouded with the trouble that sprang from
devising an' answer to that question; I could picture her innocent eyes cast down, her delicate
cheeks pinked by some measure of shame, as at last, in a low, stifled voice, the four words
broke from her "I love him, monsieur."

Ah, Dieu! To hear her confess it so! If yesternight it had stirred me to the very depths of
my poor, sinful soul to have her say so much to me, how infinitely more did it not affect me
to overhear this frank avowal of it to another! And to think that she was undergoing all this
to the end that she might save me!

From Chatellerault there came an impatient snort in answer, and his feet again smote the floor
as he resumed the pacing that for a moment he had suspended. Then followed a pause, a long
silence, broken only by the Count's restless walking to and fro. At last "Why are you silent,
monsieur?" she asked in a trembling voice.

"Helas, mademoiselle, I can do nothing. I had feared that it might be thus with you; and, if
I put the question, it was in the hope that I was wrong."

"But he, monsieur?" she exclaimed in anguish. "What of him?"

"Believe me, mademoiselle, if it lay in my power I would save him were he never so guilty,
if only that I might spare you sorrow."

He spoke with tender regret, foul hypocrite that he was!

"Oh, no, no!" she cried, and her voice was of horror and despair. "You do not mean that--"
She stopped short; and then, after a pause, it was the Count who finished the sentence for her.

"I mean, mademoiselle, that this Lesperon must die!"

You will marvel that I let her suffer so, that I did not break down the partition with my hands
and strike that supple gentleman dead at her feet in atonement for the anguish he was causing
her. But I had a mind to see how far he would drive this game he was engaged upon.

Again there was a spell of silence, and at last, when Mademoiselle spoke, I was amazed at the
calm voice in which she addressed him, marvelling at the strength and courage of one so frail
and childlike to behold.

"Is your determination, indeed, irrevocable, monsieur? If you have any pity, will you not at
least let me bear my prayers and my tears to the King?"

"It would avail you nothing. As I have said, the Languedoc rebels are in my hands." He paused
as if to let those words sink well into her understanding; then, "If I were to set him at liberty,
mademoiselle, if I were to spirit him out of prison in the night, bribing his jailers to keep
silent and binding him by oath to quit France at once and never to betray me, I should be,
myself, guilty of high treason. Thus alone could the thing be done, and you will see, mademoiselle,
that by doing it I should be endangering my neck."

There was an ineffable undercurrent of meaning in his words--an intangible suggestion that
he might be bribed to do all this to which he so vaguely alluded.

"I understand, monsieur," she answered, choking--"I understand that it would be too much to
ask of you."

"It would be much, mademoiselle," he returned quickly, and his voice was now subdued and invested
with an odd quiver. "But nothing that your lips might ask of me and that it might lie in the
power of mortal man to do, would be too much!"

"You mean?" she cried, a catch in her breath. Had she guessed--as I, without sight of her face,
had guessed--what was to follow? My gorge was rising fast. I clenched my hands, and by an effort
I restrained myself to learn that I had guessed aright.

"Some two months ago," he said, "I journeyed to Lavedan, as you may remember. I saw you, mademoiselle--for
a brief while only, it is true--and ever since I have seen nothing else but you." His voice
went a shade lower, and passion throbbed in his words.

She, too, perceived it, for the grating of a chair informed me that she had risen.

"Not now, monsieur--not now!" she exclaimed. "This is not the season. I beg of you think of
my desolation."

"I do, mademoiselle, and I respect your grief, and, with all my heart, believe me, I share
it. Yet this is the season, and if you have this man's interests at heart, you will hear me
to the end."

Through all the imperiousness of his tone an odd note of respect--real or assumed--was sounding.

"If you suffer, mademoiselle, believe me that I suffer also, and if I make you suffer more
by what I say, I beg that you will think how what you have said, how the very motive of your
presence here, has made me suffer. Do you know, mademoiselle, what it is to be torn by jealousy?
Can you imagine it? If you can, you can imagine also something of the torture I endured when
you confessed to me that you loved this Lesperon, when you interceded for his life. Mademoiselle,
I love you--with all my heart and soul I love you. I have loved you, I think, since the first
moment of our meeting at Lavedan, and to win you there is no risk that I would not take, no
danger that I would not brave."

"Monsieur, I implore you--"

"Hear me out, mademoiselle!" he cried. Then in quieter voice he proceeded: "At present you
love this Monsieur de Lesperon--"

"I shall always love him! Always, monsieur!"

"Wait, wait, wait!" he exclaimed, annoyed by her interruption. "If he were to live, and you
were to wed him and be daily in his company, I make no doubt your love might endure. But if
he were to die, or if he were to pass into banishment and you were to see him no more, you
would mourn him for a little while, and then--Helas! it is the way of men and women--time would
heal first your sorrow, then your heart."

"Never, monsieur--oh, never!"

"I am older, child, than you are. I know. At present you are anxious to save his life anxious
because you love him, and also because you betrayed him, and you would not have his death upon
your conscience." He paused a moment; then raising his voice, "Mademoiselle," said he, "I offer
you your lover's life."

"Monsieur, monsieur!" cried the poor child, "I knew you were good! I knew--"

"A moment! Do not misapprehend me. I do not say that I give it--I offer it."

"But the difference?"

"That if you would have it, mademoiselle, you must buy it. I have said that for you I would
brave all dangers. To save your lover, I brave the scaffold. If I am betrayed, or if the story
transpire, my head will assuredly fall in the place of Lesperon's. This I will risk, mademoiselle--I
will do it gladly--if you will promise to become my wife when it is done."

There was a moan from Roxalanne, then silence; then--"Oh, monsieur, you are pitiless! What
bargain is this that you offer me?"

"A fair one, surely," said that son of hell--"a very fair one. The risk of my life against
your hand in marriage."

"If you--if you truly loved me as you say, monsieur," she reasoned, "you would serve me without
asking guerdon."

"In any other thing I would. But is it fair to ask a man who is racked by love of you to place
another in your arms, and that at the risk of his own life? Ah, mademoiselle, I am but a man,
and I am subject to human weaknesses. If you will consent, this Lesperon shall go free, but
you must see him no more; and I will carry my consideration so far as to give you six months
in which to overcome your sorrow, ere I present myself to you again to urge my suit."

"And if I refuse, monsieur?"

He sighed.

"To the value which I set upon my life you must add my very human jealousy. From such a combination
what can you hope for?"

"You mean, in short, that he must die?"

"To-morrow," was that infernal cheat's laconic answer.

They were silent a little while, then she fell a-sobbing.

"Be pitiful, monsieur! Have mercy if you, indeed, love me. Oh, he must not die! I cannot, I
dare not, let him die! Save him, monsieur, and I will pray for you every night of my life;
I will pray for you to our Holy Mother as I am now praying to you for him."

Lived there the man to resist that innocent, devout appeal? Lived there one who in answer to
such gentle words of love and grief could obtrude his own coarse passions? It seems there did,
for all he answered was "You know the price, child."

"And God pity me! I must pay it. I must, for if he dies I shall have his blood upon my conscience!"
Then she checked her grief, and her voice grew almost stern in the restraint she set upon herself.
"If I give you my promise to wed you hereafter--say in six months' time--what proof will you
afford me that he who is detained under the name of Lesperon shall go free?"

I caught the sound of something very like a gasp from the Count.

"Remain in Toulouse until to-morrow, and to-night ere he departs he shall come to take his
leave of you. Are you content?"

"Be it so, monsieur," she answered.

Then at last I leapt to my feet. I could endure no more. You may marvel that I had had the
heart to endure so much, and to have so let her suffer that I might satisfy myself how far
this scoundrel Chatellerault would drive his trickster's bargain.

A more impetuous man would have beaten down the partition, or shouted to her through it the
consolation that Chatellerault's bargain was no bargain at all, since I was already at large.
And that is where a more impetuous man would have acted upon instinct more wisely than did
I upon reason. Instead, I opened the door, and, crossing the common room, I flung myself down
a passage that I thought must lead to the chamber in which they were closeted. But in this
I was at fault, and ere I had come upon a waiter and been redirected some precious moments
were lost. He led me back through the common room to a door opening upon another corridor.
He pushed it wide, and I came suddenly face to face with Chatellerault, still flushed from
his recent contest.

"You here!" he gasped, his jaw falling, and his cheeks turning pale, as well they might; for
all that he could not dream I had overheard his bargaining.

"We will go back, if you please, Monsieur le Comte." said I.

"Back where?" he asked stupidly.

"Back to Mademoiselle. Back to the room you have just quitted." And none too gently I pushed
him into the corridor again, and so, in the gloom, I missed the expression of his face.

"She is not there," said he.

I laughed shortly.

"Nevertheless, we will go back," I insisted.

And so I had my way, and we gained the room where his infamous traffic had been held. Yet for
once he spoke the truth. She was no longer there.

"Where is she?" I demanded angrily.

"Gone," he answered; and when I protested that I had not met her, "You would not have a lady
go by way of the public room, would you?" he demanded insolently. "She left by the side door
into the courtyard."

"That being so, Monsieur le Comte," said I quietly, "I will have a little talk with you before
going after her." And I carefully closed the door.

CHAPTER XV. MONSIEUR DE CHATELLERAULT IS ANGRY

Within the room Chatellerault and I faced each other in silence. And how vastly changed were
the circumstances since our last meeting!

The disorder that had stamped itself upon his countenance when first he had beheld me still
prevailed. There was a lowering, sullen look in his eyes and a certain displacement of their
symmetry which was peculiar to them when troubled.

Although a cunning plotter and a scheming intriguer in his own interests, Chatellerault, as
I have said before, was not by nature a quick man. His wits worked slowly, and he needed leisure
to consider a situation and his actions therein ere he was in a position to engage with it.

"Monsieur le Comte," quoth I ironically, "I make you my compliments upon your astuteness and
the depth of your schemes, and my condolences upon the little accident owing to which I am
here, and in consequence of which your pretty plans are likely to miscarry."

He threw back his great head like a horse that feels the curb, and his smouldering eyes looked
up at me balefully. Then his sensuous lips parted in scorn.

"How much do you know?" he demanded with sullen contempt.

"I have been in that room for the half of an hour," I answered, rapping the partition with
my knuckles.

"The dividing wall, as you will observe, is thin, and I heard everything that passed between
you and Mademoiselle de Lavedan."

"So that Bardelys, known as the Magnificent; Bardelys the mirror of chivalry; Bardelys the
arbiter elegantiarum of the Court of France, is no better, it seems, than a vulgar spy."

If he sought by that word to anger me, he failed.

"Lord Count," I answered him very quietly, "you are of an age to know that the truth alone
has power to wound. I was in that room by accident, and when the first words of your conversation
reached me I had not been human had I not remained and strained my ears to catch every syllable
you uttered. For the rest, let me ask you, my dear Chatellerault, since when have you become
so nice that you dare cast it at a man that he has been eavesdropping?"

"You are obscure, monsieur. What is it that you suggest?"

"I am signifying that when a man stands unmasked for a cheat, a liar, and a thief, his own
character should give him concern enough to restrain him from strictures upon that of another."

A red flush showed through the tan of his skin, then faded and left him livid--a very evil
sight, as God lives. He flung his heavily-feathered hat upon the table, and carried his hand
to his hilt.

"God's blood!" he cried. "You shall answer me for this."

I shook my head and smiled; but I made no sign of drawing.

"Monsieur, we must talk a while. I think that you had better."

He raised his sullen eyes to mine. Perhaps the earnest impressiveness of my tones prevailed.
Be that as it may, his half-drawn sword was thrust back with a click, and "What have you to
say?" he asked.

"Be seated." I motioned him to a chair by the table and when he had taken it I sat down opposite
to him. Taking up a quill, I dipped it in the ink-horn that stood by, and drew towards me a
sheet of paper.

"When you lured me into the wager touching Mademoiselle de Lavedan," said I calmly, "you did
so, counting upon certain circumstances, of which you alone had knowledge, that should render
impossible the urging of my suit. That, Monsieur le Comte, was undeniably the action of a cheat.
Was it not?"

"Damnation!" he roared, and would have risen, but, my hand upon his arm, I restrained him and
pressed him back into his chair.

"By a sequence of fortuitous circumstances," I pursued, "it became possible for me to circumvent
the obstacle upon which you had based your calculations. Those same circumstances led later
to my being arrested in error and in place of another man. You discovered how I had contravened
the influence upon which you counted; you trembled to see how the unexpected had befriended
me, and you began to fear for your wager.

"What did you do? Seeing me arraigned before you in your quality as King's Commissioner, you
pretended to no knowledge of me; you became blind to my being any but Lesperon the rebel, and
you sentenced me to death in his place, so that being thus definitely removed I should be unable
to carry out my undertaking, and my lands should consequently pass into your possession. That,
monsieur, was at once the act of a thief and a murderer. Wait, monsieur; restrain yourself
until I shall have done. To-day again fortune comes to my rescue. Again you see me slipping
from your grasp, and you are in despair. Then, in the eleventh hour, Mademoiselle de Lavedan
comes to you to plead for my life. By that act she gives you the most ample proof that your
wager is lost. What would a gentleman, a man of honour, have done under these circumstances?
What did you do? You seized that last chance; you turned it to the best account; you made this
poor girl buy something from you; you made her sell herself to you for nothing--pretending
that your nothing was a something of great value. What term shall we apply to that? To say
that you cheated again seems hardly adequate."

"By God, Bardelys!"

"Wait!" I thundered, looking him straight between the eyes, so that again he sank back cowed.
Then resuming the calm with which hitherto I had addressed him, "Your cupidity," said I, "your
greed for the estates of Bardelys, and your jealousy and thirst to see me impoverished and
so ousted from my position at Court, to leave you supreme in His Majesty's favour, have put
you to strange shifts for a gentleman, Chatellerault. Yet, wait."

And, dipping my pen in the ink-horn, I began to write. I was conscious of his eyes upon me,
and I could imagine his surmisings and bewildered speculations as my pen scratched rapidly
across the paper. In a few moments it was done, and I tossed the pen aside. I took up the sandbox.

"When a man cheats, Monsieur le Comte, and is detected, he is invariably adjudged the loser
of his stakes. On that count alone everything that you have is now mine by rights." Again I
had to quell an interruption. "But if we wave that point, and proceed upon the supposition
that you have dealt fairly and honourably with me, why, then, monsieur, you have still sufficient
evidence--the word of Mademoiselle, herself, in fact--that I have won my wager. And so, if
we take this, the most lenient view of the case"--I paused to sprinkle the sand over my writing--"your
estates are still lost to you, and pass to be my property."

"Do they, by God?" he roared, unable longer to restrain himself, and leaping to his feet. "You
have done, have you not? You have said all that you can call to mind? You have flung insults
and epithets at me enough to earn the cutting of a dozen throats. You have dubbed me cheat
and thief"--he choked in his passion--"until you have had your fill--is it not so? Now, listen
to me, Master Bardelys, master spy, master buffoon, master masquerader! What manner of proceeding
was yours to go to Lavedan under a false name? How call you that? Was that, perhaps, not cheating?"

"No, monsieur, it was not," I answered quietly. "It was in the terms of your challenge that
I was free to go to Lavedan in what guise I listed, employing what wiles I pleased. But let
that be," I ended, and, creasing the paper, I poured the sand back into the box, and dusted
the document. "The point is hardly worth discussing at this time of day. If not one way, why,
then, in another, your wager is lost."

"Is it?" He set his arms akimbo and eyed me derisively, his thick-set frame planted squarely
before me. "You are satisfied that it is so? Quite satisfied, eh?" He leered in my face. "Why,
then, Monsieur le Marquis, we will see whether a few inches of steel will win it back for me."
And once more his hand flew to his hilt.

Rising, I flung the document I had accomplished upon the table. "Glance first at that," said I.

He stopped to look at me in inquiry, my manner sowing so great a curiosity in him that his
passion was all scattered before it. Then he stepped up to the table and lifted the paper.
As he read, his hand shook, amazement dilated his eyes and furrowed his brow.

"What--what does it signify?" he gasped.

"It signifies that, although fully conscious of having won, I prefer to acknowledge that I
have lost. I make over to you thus my estates of Bardelys, because, monsieur, I have come to
realize that that wager was an infamous one--one in which a gentleman should have had no part--and
the only atonement I can make to myself, my honour, and the lady whom we insulted--is that."

"I do not understand," he complained.

"I apprehend your difficulty, Comte. The point is a nice one. But understand at least that
my Picardy estates are yours. Only, monsieur, you will be well advised to make your will forthwith,
for you are not destined, yourself, to enjoy them."

He looked at me, his glance charged with inquiry.

"His Majesty," I continued, in answer to his glance, "is ordering your arrest for betraying
the trust he had reposed in you and for perverting the ends of justice to do your own private
murdering."

"Mon Dieu!" he cried, falling of a sudden unto a most pitiful affright. "The King knows?"

"Knows?" I laughed. "In the excitement of these other matters you have forgotten to ask how
I come to be at liberty. I have been to the King, monsieur, and I have told him what has taken
place here at Toulouse, and how I was to have gone to the block tomorrow!"

"Scelerat!" he cried. "You have ruined me!" Rage and grief were blent in his accents. He stood
before me, livid of face and with hands clenching and unclenching at his sides.

"Did you expect me to keep such a matter silent? Even had I been so inclined it had not been
easy, for His Majesty had questions to ask me. From what the King said, monsieur, you may count
upon mounting the scaffold in my stead. So be advised, and make your will without delay, if
you would have your heirs enjoy my Picardy chateau."

I have seen terror and anger distort men's countenances, but never have I seen aught to compare
with the disorder of Chatellerault at that moment. He stamped and raved and fumed. He poured
forth a thousand ordures of speech in his frenzy; he heaped insults upon me and imprecations
upon the King, whose lapdog he pronounced me. His short, stout frame was quivering with passion
and fear, his broad face distorted by his hideous grimaces of rage. And then, while yet his
ravings were in full flow, the door opened, and in stepped the airy Chevalier de Saint-Eustache.

He stood still, amazed, beneath the lintel--marvelling to see all this anger, and abashed at
beholding me. His sudden appearance reminded me that I had last seen him at Grenade in the
Count's company, on the day of my arrest. The surprise it had occasioned me now returned upon
seeing him so obviously and intimately seeking Chatellerault.

The Count turned on him in his anger.

"Well, popinjay?" he roared. "What do you want with me?"

"Monsieur le Comte!" cried the other, in blent indignation and reproach.

"You will perceive that you are come inopportunely," I put in. "Monsieur de Chatellerault is
not quite himself."

But my speech again drew his attention to my presence; and the wonder grew in his eyes at finding
me there, for to him I was still Lesperon the rebel, and he marvelled naturally that I should
be at large.

Then in the corridor there was a sound of steps and voices, and as I turned I beheld in the
doorway, behind Saint-Eustache, the faces of Castelroux, Mironsac, and my old acquaintance,
the babbling, irresponsible buffoon, La Fosse. From Mironsac he had heard of my presence in
Toulouse, and, piloted by Castelroux, they were both come to seek me out. I'll swear it was
not thus they had looked to find me.

They pushed their way into the room, impelling Saint-Eustache forward, and there were greetings
exchanged and felicitations, whilst Chatellerault, curbing his disorder, drew the Chevalier
into a corner of the room, and stood there listening to him.

At length I heard the Count exclaim--

"Do as you please, Chevalier. If you have interests of your own to serve, serve them. As for
myself--I am past being interested."

"But why, monsieur?" the chevalier inquired.

"Why?" echoed Chatellerault, his ferocity welling up again. Then, swinging round, he came straight
at me, as a bull makes a charge.

"Monsieur de Bardelys!" he blazed.

"Bardelys!" gasped Saint-Eustache in the background.

"What now?" I inquired coldly, turning from my friends.

"All that you said may be true, and I may be doomed, but I swear before God that you shall
not go unpunished."

"I think, monsieur, that you run a grave risk of perjuring yourself!" I laughed.

"You shall render me satisfaction ere we part!" he cried.

"If you do not deem that paper satisfaction enough, then, monsieur, forgive me, but your greed
transcends all possibility of being ever satisfied."

"The devil take your paper and your estates! What shall they profit me when I am dead?"

"They may profit your heirs," I suggested.

"How shall that profit me?"

"That is a riddle that I cannot pretend to elucidate."

"You laugh, you knave!" he snorted. Then, with an abrupt change of manner, "You do not lack
for friends," said he. "Beg one of these gentlemen to act for you, and if you are a man of
honour let us step out into the yard and settle the matter."

I shook my head.

"I am so much a man of honour as to be careful with whom I cross steel. I prefer to leave you
to His Majesty's vengeance; his headsman may be less particular than am I. No, monsieur, on
the whole, I do not think that I can fight you."

His face grew a shade paler. It became grey; the jaw was set, and the eyes were more out of
symmetry than I had ever seen them. Their glance approached what is known in Italy as the mal'occhio,
and to protect themselves against the baneful influences of which men carry charms. A moment
he stood so, eyeing me. Then, coming a step nearer--

 "You do not think that you can fight me, eh?  You do not think it?
Pardieu! How shall I make you change your mind? To the insult of words
you appear impervious. You imagine your courage above dispute because by
a lucky accident you killed La Vertoile some years ago and the fame of
it has attached to you." In the intensity of his anger he was breathing
heavily, like a man overburdened. "You have been living ever since by
the reputation which that accident gave you. Let us see if you can die
by it, Monsieur de Bardelys." And, leaning forward, he struck me on
the breast, so suddenly and so powerfully--for he was a man of abnormal
strength--that I must have fallen but that La Fosse caught me in his
arms.

"Kill him!" lisped the classic-minded fool. "Play Theseus to this bull of Marathon."

Chatellerault stood back, his hands on his hips, his head inclined towards his right shoulder,
and an insolent leer of expectancy upon his face.

"Will that resolve you?" he sneered.

"I will meet you," I answered, when I had recovered breath. "But I swear that I shall not help
you to escape the headsman."

He laughed harshly.

"Do I not know it?" he mocked. "How shall killing you help me to escape? Come, messieurs, sortons.
At once!"

"Sor," I answered shortly; and thereupon we crowded from the room, and went pele-mele down
the passage to the courtyard at the back.

CHAPTER XVI. SWORDS!

La Fosse led the way with me, his arm through mine, swearing that he would be my second. He
had such a stomach for a fight, had this irresponsible, irrepressible rhymester, that it mounted
to the heights of passion with him, and when I mentioned, in answer to a hint dropped in connection
with the edict, that I had the King's sanction for this combat, he was nearly mad with joy.

"Blood of La Fosse!" was his oath. "The honour to stand by you shall be mine, my Bardelys!
You owe it me, for am I not in part to blame for all this ado? Nay, you'll not deny me. That
gentleman yonder, with the wild-cat moustaches and a name like a Gascon oath--that cousin of
Mironsac's, I mean--has the flair of a fight in his nostrils, and a craving to be in it. But
you'll grant me the honour, will you not? Pardieu! It will earn me a place in history."

"Or the graveyard," quoth I, by way of cooling his ardour.

"Peste! What an augury!" Then, with a laugh: "But," he added, indicating Saint-Eustache, "that
long, lean saint--I forget of what he is patron--hardly wears a murderous air."

To win peace from him, I promised that he should stand by me. But the favour lost much of its
value in his eyes when presently I added that I did not wish the seconds to engage, since the
matter was of so very personal a character.

Mironsac and Castelroux, assisted by Saint-Eustache, closed the heavy portecochere, and so
shut us in from the observation of passers-by. The clanging of those gates brought the landlord
and a couple of his knaves, and we were subjected to the prayers and intercessions, to the
stormings and ravings that are ever the prelude of a stable-yard fight, but which invariably
end, as these ended, in the landlord's withdrawal to run for help to the nearest corps-de-garde.

"Now, my myrmillones," cried La Fosse in bloodthirsty jubilation, "to work before the host
returns."

"Po' Cap de Dieu!" growled Castelroux, "is this a time for jests, master joker?"

"Jests?" I heard him retorting, as he assisted me to doff my doublet. "Do I jest? Diable! you
Gascons are a slow-witted folk! I have a taste for allegory, my friend, but that never yet
was accounted so low a thing as jesting."

At last we were ready, and I shifted the whole of my attention to the short, powerful figure
of Chatellerault as he advanced upon me, stripped to the waist, his face set and his eyes full
of stern resolve. Despite his low stature, and the breadth of frame which argue sluggish motion,
there was something very formidable about the Count. His bared arms were great masses of muscular
flesh, and if his wrist were but half as supple as it looked powerful, that alone should render
him a dangerous antagonist.

Yet I had no qualm of fear, no doubt, even, touching the issue. Not that I was an habitual
ferrailleur. As I have indicated, I had fought but one man in all my life. Nor yet am I of
those who are said to know no fear under any circumstances. Such men are not truly brave; they
are stupid and unimaginative, in proof of which I will advance the fact that you may incite
a timid man to deeds of reckless valour by drugging him with wine. But this is by the way.
It may be that the very regular fencing practice that in Paris I was wont to take may so have
ordered my mind that the fact of meeting unbaited steel had little power to move me.

Be that as it may, I engaged the Count without a tremor either of the flesh or of the spirit.
I was resolved to wait and let him open the play, that I might have an opportunity of measuring
his power and seeing how best I might dispose of him. I was determined to do him no hurt, and
to leave him, as I had sworn, to the headsman; and so, either by pressure or by seizure, it
was my aim to disarm him.

But on his side also he entered upon the duel with all caution and wariness. From his rage
I had hoped for a wild, angry rush that should afford me an easy opportunity of gaining my
ends with him. Not so, however. Now that he came with steel to defend his life and to seek
mine, he appeared to have realized the importance of having keen wits to guide his hand; and
so he put his anger from him, and emerged calm and determined from his whilom disorder.

Some preliminary passes we made from the first engagement in the lines of tierce, each playing
warily for an opening, yet neither of us giving ground or betraying haste or excitement. Now
his blade slithered on mine with a ceaseless tremor; his eyes watched mine from under lowering
brows, and with knees bent he crouched like a cat making ready for a spring. Then it came.
Sudden as lightning was his disengage; he darted under my guard, then over it, then back and
under it again, and stretching out in the lunge--his double-feint completed--he straightened
his arm to drive home the botte.

But with a flying point I cleared his blade out of the line of my body. There had been two
sharp tinkles of our meeting swords, and now Chatellerault stood at his fullest stretch, the
half of his steel past and behind me, for just a fraction of time completely at my mercy. Yet
I was content to stand, and never move my blade from his until he had recovered and we were
back in our first position once again.

I heard the deep bass of Castelroux's "Mordieux!" the sharp gasp of fear from Saint-Eustache,
who already in imagination beheld his friend stretched lifeless on the ground, and the cry
of mortification from La Fosse as the Count recovered. But I heeded these things little. As
I have said, to kill the Count was not my object. It had been wise, perhaps, in Chatellerault
to have appreciated that fact; but he did not. From the manner in which he now proceeded to
press me, I was assured that he set his having recovered guard to slowness on my part, never
thinking of the speed that had been necessary to win myself such an opening as I had obtained.

My failure to run him through in that moment of jeopardy inspired him with a contempt of my
swordplay. This he now made plain by the recklessness with which he fenced, in his haste to
have done ere we might chance to be interrupted. Of this recklessness I suddenly availed myself
to make an attempt at disarming him. I turned aside a vicious thrust by a close--a dangerously
close--parry, and whilst in the act of encircling his blade I sought by pressure to carry it
out of his hand. I was within an ace of succeeding, yet he avoided me, and doubled back.

He realized then, perhaps, that I was not quite so contemptible an antagonist as he had been
imagining, and he went back to his earlier and more cautious tactics. Then I changed my plans.
I simulated an attack, and drove him hard for some moments. Strong he was, but there were advantages
of reach and suppleness with me, and even these advantages apart, had I aimed at his life,
I could have made short work of him. But the game I played was fraught with perils to myself,
and once I was in deadly danger, and as near death from the sword as a man may go and live.
My attack had lured him, as I desired that it should, into making a riposte. He did so, and
as his blade twisted round mine and came slithering at me, I again carried it off by encircling
it, and again I exerted pressure to deprive him of it. But this time I was farther from success
than before. He laughed at the attempt, as with a suddenness that I had been far from expecting
he disengaged again, and his point darted like a snake upwards at my throat.

I parried that thrust, but I only parried it when it was within some three inches of my neck,
and even as I turned it aside it missed me as narrowly as it might without tearing my skin.
The imminence of the peril had been such that, as we mutually recovered, I found a cold sweat
bathing me.

After that, I resolved to abandon the attempt to disarm him by pressure, and I turned my attention
to drawing him into a position that might lend itself to seizure. But even as I was making
up my mind to this--we were engaged in sixte at the time--I saw a sudden chance. His point
was held low while he watched me; so low that his arm was uncovered and my point was in line
with it. To see the opening, to estimate it, and to take my resolve was all the work of a fraction
of a second. The next instant I had straightened my elbow, my blade shot out in a lightning
stroke and transfixed his sword-arm.

There was a yell of pain, followed by a deep growl of fury, as, wounded but not vanquished,
the enraged Count caught his falling sword in his left hand, and whilst my own blade was held
tight in the bone of his right arm, he sought to run me through. I leapt quickly aside, and
then, before he could renew the attempt, my friends had fallen upon him and wrenched his sword
from his hand and mine from his arm.

It would ill have become me to taunt a man in his sorry condition, else might I now have explained
to him what I had meant when I had promised to leave him for the headsman even though I did
consent to fight him.

Mironsac, Castelroux, and La Fosse stood babbling around me, but I paid no heed either to Castelroux's
patois or to La Fosse's misquotations of classic authors. The combat had been protracted, and
the methods I had pursued had been of a very exhausting nature. I leaned now against the porte-cochere,
and mopped myself vigorously. Then Saint-Eustache, who was engaged in binding up his principal's
arm, called to La Fosse.

I followed my second with my eyes as he went across to Chatellerault. The Count stood white,
his lips compressed, no doubt from the pain his arm was causing him. Then his voice floated
across to me as he addressed La Fosse.

"You will do me the favour, monsieur, to inform your friend that this was no first blood combat,
but one a outrance. I fence as well with my left arm as with my right, and if Monsieur de Bardelys
will do me the honour to engage again, I shall esteem it."

La Fosse bowed and came over with the message that already we had heard.

"I fought," said I in answer, "in a spirit very different from that by which Monsieur de Chatellerault
appears to have been actuated. He made it incumbent upon me to afford proof of my courage.
That proof I have afforded; I decline to do more. Moreover, as Monsieur de Chatellerault himself
must perceive, the light is failing us, and in a few minutes it will be too dark for sword-play."

"In a few minutes there will be need for none, monsieur," shouted Chatellerault, to save time.
He was boastful to the end.

"Here, monsieur, in any case, come those who will resolve the question," I answered, pointing
to the door of the inn.

As I spoke, the landlord stepped into the yard, followed by an officer and a half-dozen soldiers.
These were no ordinary keepers of the peace, but musketeers of the guard, and at sight of them
I knew that their business was not to interrupt a duel, but to arrest my erstwhile opponent
upon a much graver charge.

The officer advanced straight to Chatellerault.

"In the King's name, Monsieur le Comte," said he. "I demand your sword."

It may be that at bottom I was still a man of soft heart, unfeeling cynic though they accounted
me; for upon remarking the misery and gloom that spread upon Chatellerault's face I was sorry
for him, notwithstanding the much that he had schemed against me. Of what his fate would be
he could have no shadow of doubt. He knew--none better--how truly the King loved me, and how
he would punish such an attempt as had been made upon my life, to say nothing of the prostitution
of justice of which he had been guilty, and for which alone he had earned the penalty of death.

He stood a moment with bent head, the pain of his arm possibly forgotten in the agony of his
spirit. Then, straightening himself suddenly, with a proud, half scornful air, he looked the
officer straight between the eyes.

"You desire my sword, monsieur?" he inquired.

The musketeer bowed respectfully.

"Saint-Eustache, will you do me the favour to give it to me?"

