"Get out the skirt-board, Jane," cried Miranda, to whom opposition served as a tonic, "and
move that flat-iron on to the front o' the stove. Rebecca, set down in that low chair beside
the board, and, Jane, you spread out her hair on it and cover it up with brown paper. Don't
cringe, Rebecca; the worst's over, and you've borne up real good! I'll be careful not to pull
your hair nor scorch you, and oh, how I'd like to have Alice Robinson acrost my knee and a
good slipper in my right hand! There, you're all ironed out and your Aunt Jane can put on your
white dress and braid your hair up again good and tight. Perhaps you won't be the homeliest
of the States, after all; but when I see you comin' in to breakfast I said to myself: 'I guess
if Maine looked like that, it would n't never 'a' been admitted into the Union!'"

When Uncle Sam and the stagecoach drew up to the brick house with a grand swing and a flourish,
the Goddess of Liberty and most of the States were already in their places on the "harricane
deck." Words fail to describe the gallant bearing of the horses, their headstalls gayly trimmed
and their harnesses dotted with little flags. The stage windows were hung in bunting, and from
within beamed Columbia, looking out from the bright frame as if proud of her freight of loyal
children. Patriotic streamers floated from whip, from dash-board and from rumble, and the effect
of the whole was something to stimulate the most phlegmatic voter. Rebecca came out on the
steps and Aunt Jane brought a chair to assist in the ascent.  Miss Dearborn peeped from the
window, and gave a despairing look at her favorite.

What had happened to her? Who had dressed her? Had her head been put through a wringing-machine?
Why were her eyes red and swollen?  Miss Dearborn determined to take her behind the trees in
the pine grove and give her some finishing touches; touches that her skillful fingers fairly
itched to bestow.

The stage started, and as the roadside pageant grew gayer and gayer, Rebecca began to brighten
and look prettier, for most of her beautifying came from within. The people, walking, driving,
or standing on their doorsteps, cheered Uncle Sam's coach with its freight of gossamer-muslined,
fluttering-ribboned girls, and just behind, the gorgeously decorated haycart, driven by Abijah
Flagg, bearing the jolly but inharmonious fife and drum corps. Was ever such a golden day;
such crystal air; such mellow sunshine; such a merry Uncle Sam!

The stage drew up at an appointed spot near a pine grove, and while the crowd was gathering,
the children waited for the hour to arrive when they should march to the platform; the hour
toward which they seemed to have been moving since the dawn of creation. As soon as possible
Miss Dearborn whispered to Rebecca: "Come behind the trees with me; I want to make you prettier!"

Rebecca thought she had suffered enough from that process already during the last twelve hours,
but she put out an obedient hand and the two withdrew.

Now Miss Dearborn was, I fear, a very indifferent teacher. Her stock in trade was small, her
principal virtues being devotion to children and ability to gain their love, and a power of
evolving a schoolroom order so natural, cheery, serene, and peaceful that it gave the beholder
a certain sense of being in a district heaven.  She was poor in arithmetic and weak in geometry,
but if you gave her a rose, a bit of ribbon, and a seven-by-nine looking-glass she could make
herself as pretty as a pink in two minutes.

Safely sheltered behind the pines, Miss Dearborn began to practice mysterious feminine arts.
She flew at Rebecca's tight braids, opened the strands and rebraided them loosely; bit and
tore the red, white, and blue ribbon in two and tied the braids separately.  Then with nimble
fingers she pulled out little tendrils of hair behind the ears and around the nape of the neck.
After a glance of acute disapproval directed at the stiff balloon skirt she knelt on the ground
and gave a strenuous embrace to Rebecca's knees, murmuring, between her hugs, "Starch must
be cheap at the brick house!"

This particular line of beauty attained, there ensued great pinchings of ruffles; the fingers
that could never hold a ferule nor snap children's ears being incomparable fluting-irons. Next
the sash was scornfully untied, and tightened to suggest something resembling a waist.  The
chastened bows that had been squat, dowdy, spiritless, were given tweaks, flirts, bracing little
pokes and dabs, till, acknowledging a master hand, they stood up, piquant, pert, smart, alert!

Pride of bearing was now infused into the flattened lace at the neck, and a pin (removed at
some sacrifice from her own toilette) was darned in at the back to prevent any cowardly lapsing.
The short white cotton gloves that called attention to the tanned wrists and arms were stripped
off and put in her own pocket. Then the wreath of pine-cones was adjusted at a heretofore unimagined
angle, the hair was pulled softly into a fluffy frame, and finally, as she met Rebecca's grateful
eyes, she gave her two approving, triumphant kisses. In a second the sensitive face lighted
into happiness; pleased dimples appeared in the cheeks, the kissed mouth was as red as a rose,
and the little fright that had walked behind the pine-tree stepped out on the other side Rebecca,
the lovely.

As to the relative value of Miss Dearborn's accomplishments, the decision must be left to the
gentle reader; but though it is certain that children should be properly grounded in mathematics,
no heart of flesh could bear to hear Miss Dearborn's methods vilified who had seen her patting,
pulling, squeezing Rebecca from ugliness into beauty.

Now all was ready; the moment of fate was absolutely at hand; the fife and drum corps led the
way and the States followed; but what actually happened Rebecca never knew; she lived through
the hours in a waking dream. Every little detail was a facet of light that reflected sparkles,
and among them all she was fairly dazzled. The brass band played inspiring strains; the mayor
spoke eloquently on great themes; the people cheered; then the rope on which so much depended
was put into the children's hands, they applied superhuman strength to their task, and the
flag mounted, mounted, smoothly and slowly, and slowly unwound and stretched itself until its
splendid size and beauty were revealed against the maples and pines and blue New England sky.

Then after cheers upon cheers and after a patriotic chorus by the church choirs, the State
of Maine mounted the platform, vaguely conscious that she was to recite a poem, though for
the life of her she could not remember a single word.

"Speak up loud and clear, Rebecky," whispered Uncle Sam in the front row, but she could scarcely
hear her own voice when, tremblingly, she began her first line.  After that she gathered strength,
and the poem "said itself," while the dream went on. She saw her friend Adam Ladd leaning against
a tree; Aunt Jane and Aunt Miranda palpitating with nervousness; Clara Belle Simpson gazing
cross-eyed but adoring from a seat on the side; and in the far, far distance, on the very outskirts
of the crowd, a tall man standing in a wagon--a tall, loose-jointed man with red upturned mustaches,
and a gaunt white horse whose head was turned toward the Acreville road.

Loud applause greeted the State of Maine, the slender little white-clad figure standing on
the mossy boulder that had been used as the centre of the platform. The sun came up from behind
a great maple and shone full on the star-spangled banner, making it more dazzling than ever,
so that its beauty drew all eyes upward.

Abner Simpson lifted his vagrant shifting gaze to its softly fluttering folds and its splendid
massing of colors, thinking:--

"I don't know's anybody'd ought to steal a flag, the thunderin' idjuts seem to set such store
by it, and what is it, anyway? Nothin' but a sheet o' buntin'!'"

Nothing but a sheet of bunting? He looked curiously at the rapt faces of the mothers, their
babies asleep in their arms; the parted lips and shining eyes of the white-clad girls; at Cap'n
Lord, who had been in Libby Prison, and Nat Strout, who had left an arm at Bull Run; at the
friendly, jostling crowd of farmers, happy, eager, absorbed, their throats ready to burst with
cheers.

"Talk about stars! She's got a couple of 'em right in her head," thought Simpson. "If I ever
seen a young one like that layin' on anybody's doorstep I'd hook her quicker'n a wink, though
I've got plenty to home, the Lord knows! And I wouldn't swap her off neither.--Spunky little
creeter, too; settin' up in the wagon lookin' 'bout's big as a pint o' cider, but keepin' right
after the flag!--I vow I'm 'bout sick o' my job! Never with the crowd, allers jest on the outside,
's if I wa'n't as good's they be! If it paid well, mebbe would n't mind, but they're so thunderin'
stingy round here, they don't leave out anything decent for you to take from 'em, yet you're
reskin' your liberty 'n' reputation jest the same!--Countin' the poor pickin's 'n' the time
I lose in jail I might most's well be done with it 'n' work out by the day, as the folks want
me to; I'd make 'bout's much, n' I don' know's it would be any harder!"

He could see Rebecca stepping down from the platform, while his own red-headed little girl
stood up on her bench, waving her hat with one hand, her handkerchief with the other, and stamping
with both feet.

Now a man sitting beside the mayor rose from his chair and Abner heard him call:--

"Three cheers for the women who made the flag!"

"Hip, hip, hurrah!"

"Three cheers for the State of Maine!"

"Hip, hip, hurrah!"

"Three cheers for the girl who saved the flag from the hands of the enemy!"

"Hip, hip, hurrah!"

It was the Edgewood minister, whose full, vibrant voice was of the sort to move a crowd. His
words rang out into the clear air and were carried from lip to lip. Hands clapped, feet stamped,
hats swung, while the loud huzzahs might almost have wakened the echoes on old Mount Ossipee.

The tall, loose-jointed man sat down in the wagon suddenly and took up the reins.

"They're gettin' a little mite personal, and I guess it's 'bout time for you to be goin', Simpson!"

The tone was jocular, but the red mustaches drooped, and the half-hearted cut he gave to start
the white mare on her homeward journey showed that he was not in his usual reckless mood.

"It's a lie!" he burst out in a vindictive undertone, as the mare swung into her long gait.
"It's a lie! I thought 't was somebody's wash!  I ain't an enemy!"

While the crowd at the raising dispersed in happy family groups to their picnics in the woods;
while the Goddess of Liberty, Uncle Sam, Columbia, and the proud States lunched grandly in
the Grange Hall with distinguished guests and scarred veterans of two wars, the lonely man
drove, and drove, and drove through silent woods and dull, sleepy villages, never alighting
to replenish his wardrobe or his stock of swapping material.

At dusk he reached a miserable tumble-down house on the edge of a pond.

The faithful wife with the sad mouth and the habitual look of anxiety in her faded eyes came
to the door at the sound of wheels and went doggedly to the horse-shed to help him unharness.
"You did n't expect to see me back to-night, did you?" he asked satirically; "leastwise not
with this same horse? Well, I'm here! You need n't be scairt to look under the wagon-seat,
there ain't nothin' there, not even my supper, so I hope you're suited for once! No, I guess
I ain't goin' to be an angel right away, neither. There wa'n't nothin' but flags layin' roun'
loose down Riverboro way, 'n' whatever they say, I ain't sech a hound as to steal a flag!"

It was natural that young Riverboro should have red, white, and blue dreams on the night after
the new flag was raised.  A stranger thing, perhaps, is the fact that Abner Simpson should
lie down on his hard bed with the flutter of bunting before his eyes, and a whirl of unaccustomed
words in his mind.

"For it is your star, my star, all our stars together."

"I'm sick of goin' it alone," he thought; "I guess I'll try the other road for a spell;" and
with that he fell asleep.