IN THE DAYS OF DRAKE

 BY

 J. S. FLETCHER,

 AUTHOR OF

 "WHEN CHARLES I. WAS KING," "WHERE
 HIGHWAYS CROSS."

 CHICAGO AND NEW YORK:
 RAND, MCNALLY & COMPANY.
 MDCCCXCVII.

Copyright, 1897, by Rand, McNally & Co.

INTRODUCTION.

In the whole history of the English people there is no period so absolutely heroic, so full
of enthralling interest, as that in which the might of England made itself apparent by land
and sea--the period which saw good Queen Bess mistress of English hearts and Englishmen and
sovereign of the great beginnings which have come to such a magnificent fruition under Victoria.
That was indeed a golden time--an age of great venture and enterprise--a period wherein men's
hearts were set on personal valor and bravery--the day of great deeds and of courage most marvelous.
To write down a catalogue of all the names that then were glorious, to make a list of all the
daring deeds that then were done--this were an impossible task for the most painstaking of
statisticians, the most conscientious of historians and chroniclers. For there were men in
those days who achieved world-wide fame, such as Drake, Frobisher, Hawkins, Raleigh, Grenville,
and Gilbert--but there were also other men, the rough "sea-dogs" of that time, whose names
have never been remembered, or even recorded, and who were yet heroes of a quality not inferior
to their commanders and leaders. All men of that age whose calling led them to adventure and
enterprise could scarcely fail to find opportunity for heroism, self-denial, and sacrifice,
and thus the Elizabethan Englishman of whatever station stands out to us of these later days
as a great figure--the type and emblem of the England that was to be. It is this fact that
makes the Elizabethan period so fascinating and so full of romance and glamour. Whenever we
call it up before our mind's eye it is surrounded for us with all those qualities which go
toward making a great picture. There is the awful feud 'twixt England, the modern spirit making
toward progress and civilization, and Spain, the well-nigh worn-out retrogressive force that
would dam the river of human thought. There is the spectacle of the Armada, baffled and beaten,
and of the English war-ships under men like Drake and Frobisher, dropping like avenging angels
upon some Spanish port and working havoc on the Spanish treasure galleons. There, too, are
the figures of men like Grenville and Raleigh, born adventurers, leaders of men, who knew how
to die as bravely and fearlessly as they had lived. And beyond all the glory and adventure
there looms in the background of the picture the black cruelties of Spain, practiced in the
dark corners of the earth, against which the English spirit of that day never ceased from protesting
with speech and sword. It was well for the world that in that fierce contest England triumphed.
Had Spain succeeded in perpetuating its hellish system, how different would life in east and
west have been! But it was God's will that not Spain but England should win--and so to-day
we find the English-speaking peoples of the world in Great Britain and America, in Australia
and Africa, free, enlightened, full of great purpose and noble aims, working out in very truth
their own salvation. It is when one comes to think of this, that one first realizes the immeasurable
thanks due to the heroes, known and unknown, of the Elizabethan age. Whether they stand high
on the scroll of fame or lie forgotten in some quiet graveyard or in the vast oceans which
they crossed, it was they, and they only, who laid the great foundations of the England and
the United States of to-day.

J. S. FLETCHER.

IN THE DAYS OF DRAKE.

CHAPTER I.

OF MY HOME, FRIENDS, AND SURROUNDINGS.

Now that I am an old man, and have some leisure, which formerly I did not enjoy, I am often
minded to write down my memories of that surprising and remarkable adventure of mine, which
began in the year 1578, and came to an end, by God's mercy, two years later.

There are more reasons than one why I should engage in this task. Every Christmas brings a
houseful of grandchildren and young folks about me, and they, though they have heard it a dozen
times already, are never tired of hearing me re-tell the story which seems to them so wonderful.

Then, again, I am often visited by folk who have heard of my travels, and would fain have particulars
of them from my own lips; so that ofttimes I have to tell my tale, or part of it, a dozen times
in the year. Nay, upon one occasion I even told it to the King's majesty, which was when I
went up to London on some tiresome law business. Sir Ralph Wood, who is my near neighbor and
a Parliament man, had mentioned me to the King, and so I had to go to Whitehall and tell my
story before the court, which was a hard matter for a plain-spoken country gentleman, as you
may well believe.

Now all these matters have oft prompted me to write down my story, so that when any visitor
of mine might ask me for it, I could satisfy him without trouble to myself, by simply putting
the manuscript into his hand and bidding him read what I had there written. But until this
present time I have never seemed to have opportunity such as I desired, for my duties as magistrate
and church-warden have been neither light nor unimportant. Now that I have resigned them to
younger hands, I have leisure time of my own, and therefore I shall now proceed to carry out
the intention which has been in my mind for many years.

I was born at York, in the year 1558. My father, Richard Salkeld was the youngest son of Oliver
Salkeld, lord-of-the-manor of Beechcot-on-the-Wold, and he practiced in York as an attorney.
Whether he did well or ill in this calling I know not, for at the early age of six years I
was left an orphan. My father being seized by a fever, my mother devoted herself to nursing
him, which was a right and proper thing to do; but the consequence was disastrous, for she
also contracted the disease, and they both died, leaving me alone in the world.

However, I was not long left in this sad condition, for there presently appeared my uncle,
Sir Thurstan Salkeld of Beechcot, who settled my father's affairs and took me away with him.
I was somewhat afraid of him at first, for he was a good twenty years older than my father,
and wore a grave, severe air. Moreover, he had been knighted by the Queen for his zealous conduct
in administering the law. But I presently found him to be exceeding kind of heart, and ere
many months were over I had grown fond of him, and of Beechcot. He had never married, and was
not likely to, and so to the folks round about his home he now introduced me as his adopted
son and heir. And thus things went very pleasantly for me, and, as children will, I soon forgot
my early troubles.

I think we had nothing to cause us any vexation or sorrow at Beechcot until Dame Barbara Stapleton
and her son Jasper came to share our lot. Jasper was then a lad of my own age, and like me
an orphan, and the nephew of Sir Thurstan. His mother, Sir Thurstan's sister, had married Devereux
Stapleton, an officer in the Queen's household, and when she was left a widow she returned
to Beechcot and quartered herself and her boy on her brother. Thereafter we had trouble one
way or another, for Dame Barbara could not a-bear to think that I was preferred before her
own boy as Sir Thurstan's heir. Nor did she scruple to tell Sir Thurstan her thoughts on the
matter, on one occasion at any rate, for I heard them talking in the great hall when they fancied
themselves alone.

"'Tis neither right nor just," said Dame Barbara, "that you should make one nephew your son
and heir to the exclusion of the other. What! is not Jasper as much your own flesh and blood
as Humphrey?"

"You forget that Humphrey is a Salkeld in name as well as in blood," said Sir Thurstan. "If
the lad's father, my poor brother Richard, had lived, he would have succeeded me as lord of
Beechcot. Therefore, 'tis but right that Dick's boy should step into his father's place."

"To the hurt of my poor Jasper!" sighed Dame Barbara.

"Jasper is a Stapleton," answered Sir Thurstan. "However, sister, I will do what is right as
regards your lad. I will charge myself with the cost of his education and training, and will
give him a start in life, and maybe leave him a goodly sum of money when I die. Therefore,
make your mind easy on that point."

But I knew, though I was then but a lad, that she would never give over fretting herself at
the thought that I was to be lord of all the broad acres and wide moors of Beechcot, and that
Jasper would be but a landless man. And so, though she never dare flout or oppress me in any
way, for fear of Sir Thurstan's displeasure, she, without being openly unfavorable, wasted
no love on me, and no doubt often wished me out of the way.

At that time Jasper and I contrived to get on very well together. We were but lads, and there
was no feeling of rivalry between us. Indeed, I do not think there would ever have been rivalry
between us if that foolish woman, my Aunt Barbara, had not begun sowing the seeds of discord
in her son's mind. But as soon as he was old enough to understand her, she began talking to
him of Beechcot and its glories, pointing out to him the wide park and noble trees, the broad
acres filled with golden grain, and the great moors that stretched away for miles towards the
sea; and she said, no doubt, how grand a thing it would be to be lord of so excellent an estate,
and how a man might enjoy himself in its possession. Then she told him that I was to have all
these things when Sir Thurstan died, and thereafter my cousin Jasper hated me. But he let his
hate smoulder within him a good while before he showed it openly. One day, however, when we
were out in the park with our bows, he began to talk of the matter, and after a time we got
to high words.

"My mother tells me, Humphrey," said he, "that when my uncle Thurstan dies all these fair lands
will pass to thee. That is not right."

"'Tis our uncle's land to do with as he pleases," I answered. "We have naught to do with it.
If he likes to leave it to me, what hast thou to say in the matter? 'Tis his affair; not thine,
Master Jasper. Besides, I am a Salkeld, and you are not." Around the house were overgrown Chestnut
trees, gnarled and strong Rosenbuesche to continue living on his own, grew there, and there so
wildly, as elsewhere, Holunderbaeume. The floor was a ballroom, as Sali came along with Verena,
they saw from afar the pairs under the open roof rotate and carousing around the house and scream
a lot of fun guests. Verena, which reverently and sadly took his love of house, was like a holy patron
saint on old images which the model of a cathedral or monastery holds on hand so they donated,
but from the religious foundation that was in her senses could be anything. But when the wild
music heard, which sounds from the floor, it forgot his troubles and asked at last nothing but
to dance with Sali. They pushed their way through the guests who were seated in front of the
home and in the Office, ragged people from Seldwyla that made a cheap outing, poor people of
all Ends, and went up the stairs, and immediately they turned around in the waltz, no Look away
from each other. Only when the waltz ended, she looked around, Verena had crushed and broken
and his house was about to be saddened when it was still more alarmed about the black violinist,
near which they stood. He sat on a bench, the on a table stood, and looked as black as usual;
only he had a green day Tannenbusch put his cap on to his feet he had a bottle of red wine and
a glass stand that he never overturned, although he struggled constantly with his legs, when he
played the violin, and a kind of limbo so accomplished. Next to him sat a nice but sad young
man with a French horn, and a hunchback was at a bass violin. Sali also shocked when he saw
the violinist, but that greeted them on the friendliest and said, "I've known I'll play you twice
as you make! only very funny, her darling, and do I know! "He offered the full glass and Sali
Sali drank, and put him know. When the Geiger saw was Verena how shocked he was looking for him
easy to persuade and made some jokes, almost graceful, which brought it to laughter. It awoke
again, and now they were glad to have a friend here and to some extent to be under the special
protection of the violinist. They danced now without ceasing, and forget the world in turning,
singing and noise, which rumbled into and out of the house and the mountains echoed far beyond
the region, which is gradually silver in the scent of the autumn evening wrapped. They danced until
it was dark and the greater part of the fun Quests are swaying and howling away in all directions.
What still remained was the actual Hudelvoelkchen, which was nowhere at home and for a good day
too wanted to make a good night. Among these were some who, with violinist well known seemed strange
and looked in her costume zusammengewuerfelten. Especially a young Fellow noticed who was
wearing a green corduroy jacket and a tattered straw hat to he had tied a ring of mountain
ash or Vogelbeerbuescheln. This led one wild person with him, wearing a coat of cherry red, and
calico weissgetuepfeltem Shot down by a puncture vines tied around his head, so that at each
temple, a blue grape hung. This pair was let out most of all, danced and sang tirelessly and
was in all Corners at the same time. Then a slim pretty girl was there, which is a black silk
shot down dress and wore a white scarf around her head so that the tip across the back fell.
The cloth was red, woven in strips and was a good linen or Handzwehle Napkin. Including but shone
forth a pair of violet-blue eyes. Around the neck and chest hung a six-fold chain of bird berries
on a thread pulled and replaced the most beautiful coral line. This figure was dancing away while
alone with himself and refused stubbornly to dance with one of the journeymen. Nevertheless Minder
she moved gracefully and slightly around and smiled every time she vorueberdrehte at the sad
Waldhornblaeser, why this always turned his head. A few others were there with women-vergnuegte
their guardians, all from a lackluster appearance, but they were so funny and in the best Harmony
with each other. When it was completely dark, the host would be no end lights, because he claimed
that the wind from Loescher, would the full moon once and for that, what he einbraechten these gentlemen
was, the moonlight good enough. This opening was with great pleasure taken, the whole society
stood by the parapet the airy room, and looked towards the rising of the stars, whose Roets already
on the horizon stood, and when the moon rose and its light across the floor of the Paradiesgaertels
threw, they danced on the moonlight, and in such a quiet, polite and seelenvergnuegt as if they
danced in the glow of hundreds of candles. The strange light was all familiar and Sali and Verena
was able not but to mingle with the common amusement and to dance with others. But every time
they had been apart for a while, flew them together and celebrated a reunion, as if they searched
for years and finally found it. Sali was a sad and annoyed term face when he danced with one
another, and turned continued during the face-down Verena, which saw him when it vorueberschwebte,
glowed like a purple rose and seemed uebergluecklich, who danced with it as well. "Are you jealous,
Sali asked it him when the musicians were tired and stop. "? God forbid," said he, "I do not
know how I should do it!" "Why are you so angry if I with another dance? "" I am about it evil,
but because I have to dance with others! I no other girls can not stand, it seems to me as
if I have a piece of wood in her arms, if you're not! And you? How are you? "" Oh, I'm always
in heaven when I just dance and know that you are present! But I think I would immediately drop dead
if you went away and I daliessest "She had gone down and stood outside the house! Verena encircled
him with both arms, his slender body trembling clung to him, expressed his glowing cheek, which
was wet with hot tears on his face and said sobbing: "We can not be together and yet I can not leave you
do not a moment more, not a minute! "Sali embraced and pushed the girl violently and covered
it with kisses. His confused mind struggled for a way out, but He saw none. When beginning
to overcome the misery and hopelessness of his origins that would have been, so was his young
and inexperienced passion is not available, a to survive a long period of testing and self-denial
and make, and it would still Verena's father been there, which he made his life miserable.
The feeling, in bourgeois World in just a very honest and some free marriage can be happy too,
was in him just as lively as in Verena, and both being abandoned, it was the last flame the
honor that had ignited in the old days in their houses and which the assured had fathers with
an inconspicuous sentient mistake blown out and destroyed, as them, just to honor this foundation
currently imagining by increasing their property, so thoughtless to the estate of one who
disappeared appropriated, very safe, as they thought. This is now done of course every day,
but sometimes is the fate of an example and can be two such Foundation currently house their
honor and their good together, then the wear themselves infallible and eat like two wild animals.
Because the charge of the empire not only to the tears, but sometimes in the most primitive
huts and long at the very opposite At the end, as where they sought to come, and the shield of
honor is the looking around a table of shame. Sali and Verena had the honor of their house but still
seen in tender childhood and remembered how well-kept little children they had and that their
fathers looked like other men respected and secure. Then they had been separated for long, and
as they found themselves, they saw in the same time the lost happiness of the house, and both
inclination clung only the more violent with each other. They liked so much merry and be happy,
but only on a good land, and this seemed unattainable, while her flowing blood would be most like
the same zusammengestroemt. "Now it is night," Verena exclaimed, "and we should separate ourselves!"
"I should go home and leave you alone?" Sali said, "no, I can not!" "Then there will be no better
day and we want to!"

"I will give you some advice, you silly things!" dyes his a shrill voice behind them, and the violinist
stood before them. "As is her," he said, do not know "where addition and Had you like. I advise
you to take you as you are, and not tarry. Come with me and my good friends in the mountains, brauchet
because it no priest, no money, no writings, no honor, no bed, nothing but your good will! It's
not that bad for us, healthy Air and to eat enough if one is doing business, and the green
forests are our house where we That love as we like, and in winter we take the warmest nook
or crawl the farmers in the warm hay. So decided to briefly hold the same wedding, and here
come with us, you're all going concerns, and have you forever and ever, as long as at least you like
it, because you will at our old free life that you can believe it! Think not that I will grudge
you, what did your old man to me! No! It makes Although my pleasure to see you there yet, where
are you, alone so I'm satisfied and you will be helpful and obliging,
if you follow me.

"He said it really in a sincere tone and cozy. "Well, you remembers a bit, but follow me, if
I do well with the Council, am! Let's take the world, and receive you, and inquire what anyone
after! Think of the airy wedding bed in the deep woods or on a haystack, if you please too cold
"So he went into the house shook in Verena Salis arms and said this.", what do you think that? Methinks
it would not be amiss to beat the world through the wind and to love us for it without obstacle and
barriers, "and he said it but more than a desperate Joke, because seriously. Verena answered,
quite frankly, and kissed him, "No, there I would not go, because that is also not to my senses.
The young man with the horn and the girl with the silk gown and should belong to each other
so have been very much in love. Well last week he became the first person is unfaithful, what
was not in his head would, and why he was so sad and pout with her and with the other, laugh at him.
But she does a wanton buses by dancing alone and with no one speaking, and laughed at him only
out of it. The poor musicians see it However, he will still be reconciled with her. Where there
is no such hergeht, want I have not, because never I should like to be unfaithful, even if
I endure everything else would to have you! "Meanwhile, the poor Verena, but fever more violent
at Salis Breast, for ever since the day, when those landlady kept it for a bride and there is
such introduced without objection, it being the bride glowed in the blood, and the more hopeless
it was, so wild and uncontrollable. The Sali fared just as bad as the speeches of the violinist,
he did little to follow them, but his confused head, and he said, with a loss faltering Voice:
"Come in, we need at least something to eat and drink." They went into the Dining room, where no
one was more than the little company of the homeless, which already was sitting around a table
and a scanty meal. "Here comes our bride and groom!" called the violinist, "are now funny
and happy and let you be together!" They were the Compelled table and fled from himself to the
same point, they were happy just for the moment to be among people. Sali ordered wine and abundant
food, and it started a great joy. The pout was reconciled with the infidels, and the couple
caressing in eager bliss, the other wild pair sang and drank and let it not also lacking in Liebesbezeigungen,
and the violinist, together with the bumpy bass player blustered into the blue. Sali and Verena
were quiet and kept their arms; on Geiger once commanded the silence and led to a fun-like
ceremony, which is a wedding ceremony should imagine. They had to give the hands and the company
got up and went in turn to them to congratulate them and welcome in their brotherhood to be called.
She let it happen, without saying a word, and regarded it as a Fun while they ran through but cold
and hot.

The small gathering was now louder and more excited, encouraged by the stronger Wine, until suddenly
the violinist warned to leave. "We have far," he said, "and midnight is over! On! We want to
give the bride and groom ahead of the convoy and fiddling, I want It has a kind! "There did
not leave the helpless better and generally confused were, they let once again that they put
forward and the remaining two pairs formed a train behind them, what about the hunchback graduated
with his bass fiddle the shoulder. The black man went ahead and played down his violin as
though possessed the mountain, and the others laughed, sang and jumped back into the bargain.
Sun emphasized the great nightly train through the quiet fields and the home village of Salis
and Verena, whose inhabitants long ago asleep.

When they came through the quiet streets and past its lost Vaterhaeusern, seized they have
a painful wild humor and they danced with the others to race behind the Geiger her, kissed, laughed
and cried. They also danced up the hill, over which the violinist they led, where the three
lands lay, and stroked the top of the blackish guy Violin once so wild, jumped and jumped
like a ghost, and his companions were not back in high spirits, making it a true block mountain
was on the quiet Height, and even the hunchback leaped panting around
with his burden and no longer seemed to see them.

Sali took Verena fixed in the arm and forced it to rest, for he had first come to him. He kissed
it to make it silent, hard on the mouth, as it is had forgotten and sang loudly. He was finally
understood, and they stood still and listened, to her raging wedding convoy was fired along
the field and, without missing them, at the Bank of the river up passed away. The violin, the laughter
of the girls and the cries of joy of the boys drowned, but still a good time through the night,
until at last died down and everything still was.

"This we have escaped," said Sali, "but how do we escape from ourselves, how we avoid us?"

Verena was not able to respond and were deep breath on his neck.

"Shall I rather not bring back to the village and people awaken, they add up? Tomorrow can yes
you then move your way, and certainly it will probably go to you, you come away everywhere! "

"Advancement,
without you!"

"You have forgotten me!"

"I will never! Could do it for you?"

"That's does not matter, my heart!" Sali said, stroking his cheeks hot, depending after her passionately
on his chest turned them over, "it is now all about you; you are still so very young and you can
still go well in every way! "

"And do not you, old man?"

"Come!" Sali said, pulling it away. But they were only a few steps
and stood again still, in order to embrace more comfortable and to
heart.

The silence of the world sang and played music them by the souls, we only heard the river rushing
down gently and sweetly in the slow Drawing.

"How beautiful it is there all around, do you hear sound was not something
like a nice song or a ringing!

"

"It's the water that rushes is! Otherwise, everything still."

"No, it's something else here, there, everywhere also dyes his's!"

"I think we hear our own blood rushing in our ears!"

They listened for a while on these imaginary or real tones which of the large Silence stemmed, or
which they confused with the magical effects of the moonlight, which
is far and flowed over the white autumn mist that lay deep on the
reasons.

Suddenly Verena one thing: it was looking in his chest garment and said, "I told you even bought
a souvenir, I wanted to give you, "and it gave him the simple ring
and he put himself on the same finger.

Sali took his little ring out well and put Verena's hand at him,
saying: "So we have had the same thought!"

Verena held his hand in the pale silver light, looking at the ring.

"Oh, like a fine ring!"

It said, laughing, "but we are still engaged and promised, you are my husband and I your wife,
we want to even think for a moment, only until that patch of fog on Moon is over, or until we
have counted twelve! Kiss me twelve times! "

Sali certainly loved as much as Verena, but the marriage question was not in it yet so passionately
alive, as a certain either - or, as a direct or His Not to be, as in Verena, which had only
one to feel capable and passionate Determination in death or life in it looked. But now he was
at last a light on the female and the young girl was wild feeling in him on the spot a and ardent
desire and a glowing clarity he lit up the senses. So hard he Verena had already hugged and
cuddled, he did it now, but very different, and stormy and dotted it with kisses. Verena felt,
despite all their passion on the site of this change and a violent
tremor shot through his whole being, but before that mist on the moon
over was, it was taken from that.

In the fierce struggle flattery and met their ringgeschmueckten Sense and hands tightly, how
full of himself pulling a wedding without the command of a Will. Salis heart was pounding like
hammers half, it soon stopped, he breathed heavily and said quietly: "There is one for us, Verena,
we will be married at this hour and go then the world - there is the deep water - there do
us part no more, and we been together - whether short or long, can we then be the same. "-

Verena said once: "Sali - what you say, I've long been thinking to myself and have identified, namely,
that we could die and then everything would be over - so I swear it, that you want to do it with
me! "

"It's as good as done, it takes up no one from my hand, and the Dead!" called Sali beside himself.
Verena, but was breathing on high, tears of joy streamed from his eyes; it jumped up and leaped
lightly as a bird over the field against the flow down. Sali hurried after him, for he thought
it would escape him, and Verena believed that he would 're holding back, so they jumped each other, as Verena
and laughed like a child who is does not want to be caught.

"You regret it yet?" cried one to another, as they arrived at the river and were taken, "no, I'm glad
more and more!" answered each one.


We went out into the stackyard, and agreed that each of us should draw a straw from a wheat-stack.
He that drew the longest straw should have the first right of speaking. Then we put our hands
to the stack and drew our straws. I beat him there--my straw was a good foot longer than his.

"You have beaten me again," he said. "Is it always to be so? But I will wait, cousin Humphrey."

And so he turned away and left me.

Now, seeing how matters stood, it came to my mind that I had best put my fortune to the test
as quickly as possible, and therefore I made haste over to the vicarage in order to find Rose
and ask her to make me either happy or miserable. And as good luck would have it, I found her
alone in the vicarage garden, looking so sweet and gracious that I was suddenly struck dumb,
and in my confusion could think of naught but that my face was red, my attire negligent, and
my whole appearance not at all like that of a lover.

"Humphrey," said Rose, laughing at me, "you look as you used to look in the days when you came
late to your lessons, from robbing an orchard or chasing Farmer Good's cattle, or following
the hounds. Are you a boy again?"

But there she stopped, for I think she saw something in my eyes that astonished her. And after
that I know not what we said or did, save that presently we understood one another, and for
the space of an hour entirely forgot that there were other people in the world, or, indeed,
that there was any world at all.

So that evening I went home happy. And as I marched up to the manor, whistling and singing,
I met my cousin. He looked at me for a moment, and then turned on his heel.

"I see how it is," he said. "You have no need to speak."

"Congratulate me, at any rate, cousin," I cried.

"Time enough for that," said he.

And from that moment he hated me, and waited his opportunity to do me a mischief.

CHAPTER IV.

FOUL PLAY.

When a man has conceived a deadly hatred of one of his fellow-men, and has further resolved
to let slip no chance of satisfying it, his revenge becomes to him simply a question of time,
for the chance is sure to come sooner or later.

It was this conviction, I think, that kept my cousin Jasper Stapleton quiet during the next
few months. He knew that in due course his revenge would have an opportunity of glutting itself,
and for that evil time he was well content to wait. You may wonder that so young a man should
have possessed such cruel feelings toward one who had never done him any willful wrong. But
as events proved Jasper was of an exceeding cruel and malignant nature, and his wickedness
was all the worse because it was of a cold and calculating sort. If a man gave him an honest
straightforward blow or buffet, it was not Jasper's way to strike back there and then, face
to face, but rather to wait until some evil chance presented itself--and then, his adversary's
back being turned, Jasper would plant a dagger between his shoulders. In other words, he bided
his time, and when he did strike, struck at an unguarded place.

Now at that time I had very little idea that Jasper entertained such hard thoughts of me--my
knowledge of his cruelty only came by later experience. All that spring and summer of 1578
I was living in a very paradise, and cared not for Jasper or Dame Barbara or anybody else.
My uncle had sanctioned the betrothal of Rose Herrick and myself, and the good vicar had given
us his blessing in choice Latin. There had been some little scolding of us from both manor-house
and vicarage, for Sir Thurstan and Master Timotheus both thought us too young to talk of love
and marriage; but in the end our pleadings prevailed, and it was arranged that we were to consider
ourselves plighted lovers, and that our wedding was to take place in two years. This settled,
there was naught but happiness for me and Rose. I think we spent most of that summer out of
doors, wandering about the Chase, and talking as lovers will, of all the days to come. Never
once did there come a cloud over the fair heaven of our hopes, unless it was once, when in
a remote corner of the woods, we suddenly came face to face with Jasper Stapleton. He had been
out with his bow, and when we met him he was advancing along the path, with a young deer slung
over his shoulders. At the sound of our footsteps on the crackling underwood, he stopped, looked
up, and, recognizing us, turned hastily away and vanished in the thick bushes.

"Why did Jasper go away so suddenly?" asked Rose.

"Because he was not minded to meet us," said I.

"But why? And I have not seen him these many weeks--he seems to avoid me. Did you mark his
face, Humphrey,--how white it turned when he set eyes on us? And there was a look on it that
frightened me--a look that seemed to promise no love for you, Humphrey," she said.

"Have no fear, sweetheart," I answered. "Jasper is a strange fellow, but he will do me no harm.
He is only disappointed because I have won a flower that he would fain have possessed himself."

"What do you mean?" she asked.

"I mean, sweetheart, that Jasper was much in love with Mistress Rose Herrick, and liked not
that Humphrey Salkeld should win her. There--perhaps I have done wrong to tell thee this; but,
indeed, I like not mysteries."

But so strange are women, that Rose immediately fell to sighing and lamenting on Jasper's woes.
"It is sad," she said, "that any man should sorrow over a maiden's pretty face, when there
are so many girls in the world." This train of thought, however, suddenly slipped from her
when she remembered Master Jasper's ugly looks.

"He will do you a mischief, Humphrey," she said. "I saw it in his eyes. He hates you. They
say that jealousy breeds murder--oh! what if Jasper should try to kill you?"

I laughed at the notion. I was so cock-a-whoop at that time, so elated with my love and my
fair prospects, that I did not believe anything could harm me, and said so. Nevertheless, I
believe Rose was from that time much concerned as to the relations between me and Jasper, having
some woman-born notion that all might not go so well as I, in my boyish confidence, anticipated.
But when she set forth her fears from time to time, I only laughed at her, never thinking that
my cousin's opportunity was already close at hand.

Early in the month of October in that year Sir Thurstan called Jasper and myself into the library
one morning, and informed us that he had business for us at the port of Scarborough. There
was, he said, a ship coming over from Hamburg, the master of which had been entrusted with
a certain commission from him, and as the vessel was now due, he wished us to go over to Scarborough
and complete the matter, by receiving certain goods and paying the master his money. Neither
Jasper nor I were displeased at the notion of this trip, for we were both minded to see a little
of the world. True, I did not like the idea of being separated from my sweetheart for several
days; but then, as she said, there would be the delight of looking forward to our meeting again.
Alas! neither of us knew that that meeting was not to take place for three long and weary years.

We set out from Beechcot, Jasper and I, one Monday morning, having with us money wherewith
to pay the charges of the ship-master. From the manor-house to Scarborough there was a distance
of twenty odd miles, and therefore we rode our horses. Sir Thurstan had given us instructions
to put up at the Mermaid Tavern, near the harbor, and there we accordingly stabled our beasts
and made arrangements for our own accommodation. The ship which we were expecting had not yet
arrived, and was not likely to come in before the next day, so that we had naught to do but
look about us and derive what amusement we could from the sights of the little fishing town.
Small as the place was, it being then little more than a great cluster of houses nestling under
the shadow of the high rock on which stands Scarborough Castle, it was still a place of importance
to us, who had never for many years seen any town or village bigger than our own hamlet of
Beechcot, where there were no more than a dozen farmsteads and cottages all told. Also the
sailors, who hung about the harbor or on the quay-side, or who sat in their boats mending their
nets and spinning their yarns one to another, were sources of much interest, so that we felt
two or three days of life in their company would not be dull nor misspent. Moreover, the merchant,
whose ship it was that carried Sir Thurstan's goods, showed us much attention, and would have
us to his house to talk with him and tell him of our uncle, whose acquaintance he had made
many years previously, but had not been able to cultivate.

There is, near the harbor of Scarborough, lying half-hid amongst the narrow streets which run
up towards the Castle Hill, a quaint and curious inn known as the Three Jolly Mariners. At
its door stands a figure carved in wood, which at some time, no doubt, acted as figurehead
to a ship, but whether it represents Venus or Diana, Hebe or Minerva, I do not know. Inside,
the house more resembles the cabin of a vessel than the parlor of a tavern. On the walls are
many curious things brought by mariners from foreign parts, together with relics of ships that
had made many voyages from the harbor outside, and had finally come home to be broken up. In
this place, half-parlor, half-cabin, there assembled men of seafaring life: salts, young and
old, English, Scotch, Norwegians, and Danes, with now and then a Frenchman or Spaniard, so
that there is never any lack of interesting and ofttimes marvelous discourse.

Our ship not having come in on the Tuesday night, Jasper and I, in company with the merchant
aforesaid, entered the Three Jolly Mariners, and having saluted the assembled company, sat
down to wait awhile, the harbor-master thinking it likely that our vessel would shortly be
signaled. There were several men in the inn, drinking and talking, and all were of interest
in my eyes, but one of them much more so than the others. He was a stoutly-built, tall man
of middle age, dressed in what seemed to my eyes a very fantastic style, there being more color
in his dress than was then usual. He had a high, white forehead, over which his jet-black hair
was closely cropped, his eyes were set rather too near together to be pleasant, his nose was
long, his teeth very white and large, and his beard, almost as black as his hair, was trimmed
to a point. As he sat and listened to the conversation around him he never laughed, but occasionally
he smiled, exposing his cruel teeth, and reminding me of a dog that shows its fangs threateningly.

Our friend the merchant whispered to us that this gentleman was a certain Captain Manuel Nunez,
who came trading to Scarborough from Seville. He further informed us that his ship now lay
outside in the harbor, and was a fine vessel, of very graceful proportions, and much more beautiful
to look at than our English ships, which are somewhat squat and ugly, though not difficult
to handle.

"And although he is a Spaniard," continued our friend, "this Senor Nunez is well liked here,
for he makes himself courtly and agreeable to those who have to do with him, so that our recent
relations with his country have not prevented him from coming amongst us."

However, there was something about the man which almost made me afraid. He reminded me of a
viper which I once killed in Beechcot Woods. And though we entered into conversation with him
that night, and found him a mightily agreeable companion, I still preserved the notion that
he was a man not to be trusted, and like to prove cruel and treacherous.

The following day, going down to the harbor-wall to see if there were any signs of our ship,
I saw my cousin engaged in close conversation with Senor Nunez. I did not intrude myself upon
them, but presently the Spaniard, catching sight of me, came to my side, and with a courteous
salutation addressed me.

"I have been inviting your good cousin, Master Stapleton, to go aboard my vessel yonder," said
he, "and I would tender the same courtesy to yourself, Master Salkeld. It is not often that
an English country gentleman has a chance of seeing a Spanish ship in these sad days, unless,
alack! it be in this deplorable warfare; and, therefore, I thought you might both be glad of
this opportunity."

"What do you say, Humphrey?" asked Jasper, who had now approached us. "I would like to see
the inside of a Spanish ship. If 'tis aught like the outside it should be well worth an examination."

"A look at the Santa Luisa will repay your trouble, gentlemen," said the Spaniard with a proud
smile. "There is no faster ship for her size on the high seas."

"I am agreeable," said I. "Our own ship is not yet come, and time begins to hang heavy."

"Then you shall come on board to-night," said Captain Nunez. "Until six of the clock I am engaged
on shore, but at that hour I will have a boat awaiting us at the harbor stairs, and you shall
go aboard with me, gentlemen."

So we agreed and parted with him, Jasper full of the matter, and exclaiming that we should
have much to tell the folks at home. I, however, was beginning to get somewhat impatient with
respect to our own ship, which its owner now believed to have been unexpectedly detained, and
I only regarded the visit to the Santa Luisa as a diversion.

At six o'clock that night, Jasper and I met the Spaniard at the harbor stairs and went on board
his vessel. We found the Santa Luisa to be a very fine ship, and of much more pretentious appearance
as regarded her fittings than our own English trading vessels. We passed an hour or so in examining
her, and were then pressed by Senor Nunez to enter his cabin and enjoy his hospitality.

I have no very clear recollection of what followed. I remember that we ate and drank, that
the Spaniard was vastly amusing in his discourse, and that I began to feel mighty sleepy. After
that I must have gone to sleep.

When I came to my full senses again I was lying in a hammock, and I could tell from the motion
of the ship that we were at sea in a good, fresh wind. The Spaniard stood by me, regarding
me attentively. I started up and addressed him.

"Senor Nunez! I have been asleep. Where am I? The ship seems to be moving!"

"The ship is moving, Master Salkeld," he answered, in his smooth, rich voice. "At this moment
she is off the Lincolnshire coast. You have slept for twelve hours."

CHAPTER V.

PHARAOH NANJULIAN AGAIN.

I do not know to this day how I got out of the hammock, but no sooner did I hear the Spanish
captain utter these words than I made haste to go on deck and examine the truth of his statement
for myself. But before I could reach the companion I reeled and staggered, and should have
fallen, if Nunez had not seized my arm and supported me. He helped me to a seat, and handed
me a glass containing a restorative.

"You are not well," he said. "But you will come round presently."

"Senor!" I cried, "what is the meaning of this? Why am I on this ship, and why are we at sea?
How is it that I am not at Scarborough? There has been some treachery--some foul play!"

"Nay," said he, "be moderate, I entreat you, Senor. Do not let there be any talk of treachery.
Am I not serving you as a friend?"

"I do not comprehend anything of what you say," I answered. "There is some mystery here. Again
I ask you--why am I on board your ship and at sea?"

"And I ask you, Senor, where else did you expect to be but on board my ship and at sea?"

I stared at the man in amaze and wonder. He returned my gaze unflinchingly, but I felt certain
that in his eyes there was a cruel mockery of me, and my blood seemed to turn cold within me
as I recognized that I was in the Spaniard's power. But, being now in a desperate mood, I strove
to be cool and to keep my wits about me.

"I expected to be at Scarborough, Senor," I said. "Where else? I remember coming aboard your
vessel and eating and drinking with you, but after that I must have fallen asleep. I wake and
find myself at sea."

"Naturally you do," said he with a smile. "Allow me, Master Salkeld, to recall to you certain
incidents which took place last night. You came on board my ship with your cousin, Master Stapleton,
and I offered you my poor hospitality. Was that all that took place?"

"It was," said I, confidently enough.

"That is strange," said he, giving me another of his queer looks. "I fear you have undergone
some strange mental change in your long sleep. But as I perceive that you do not understand
me, I will explain matters to you. Last night, Master Salkeld, as you and your cousin sat at
meat with me, you explained to me that you had committed some great crime against the laws
of your country, and that it was necessary, if you would save your head, to leave England at
once. I remarked that I was about to set sail for the West Indies, and should be pleased to
take you as my passenger, whereupon you and your cousin having consulted together, you paid
me the passage-money--and here we are."

The man told me all this with the utmost assurance, his face utterly unmoved and his strange
eyes inscrutable. It was a lie from beginning to end, and I knew it to be a lie. Nevertheless,
I knew also that I was powerless, and I made up my mind to act prudently.

"Senor," I replied, "as between you and me, I may as well tell you that I do not believe a
single word of what you have said. There has been treachery--and it lies with you and my rascal
cousin, Jasper Stapleton. I have committed no crime against the laws, and I wish to be put
ashore at your earliest opportunity."

"You shall be obeyed, Master Salkeld," he replied, bowing low, but with a mocking smile about
his lips.

"Where do you first touch land?" I inquired.

"I have already told you, Master Salkeld. Somewhere in the West Indies."

"But you do not mean to carry me to the West Indies?" I cried. "Why, 'tis a journey of many
thousands of miles!"

"Precisely. Nevertheless, you must undertake it. We touch no land until we make Barbadoes or
Martinique."

I said no more; it was useless. I was in the man's power. Nothing that I could say or do would
alter his purpose. There had been villainy and treachery--and my cousin, Jasper Stapleton,
had worked it. I comprehended everything at that moment. I had been lured on board the Spanish
vessel and subsequently drugged, in order that Jasper might rid himself of my presence. That
was plainly to be seen. But what of the future? The West Indies, I knew, were thousands of
miles away. They were in the hands of our hereditary enemies, the Spaniards. From them I should
receive scant mercy or consideration. I was penniless--for my money had disappeared--and even
if I had possessed money, what would it have benefited me in a savage land like that to which
I was being carried? I might wait there many a long year without meeting with an English ship.
I turned to the Spaniard.

"So I am a prisoner, Senor,--your prisoner?"

"My ship and my goods are at your disposal, Senor," he replied.

"So long as I do not make any demands upon them, eh?"

"Say unreasonable demands, Master Salkeld. As a matter of fact you are free to walk or stand,
sit or lie, wake or sleep as you please. I entertain you as I best can until we touch land--and
then you go your own way. You have made a contract with me, you have paid your money, and now
I have nothing to do but carry out my share of the bargain."

"And that is----?"

"To take you to the West Indies."

"Very good, Senor. Now we understand each other. You will perhaps not object to my telling
you, that when I next meet my cousin, Master Jasper Stapleton, I will break his head for his
share in this foul conspiracy."

"I do not object in the least, Master Salkeld. But you do well to say, when you next meet him."

"Why so, Senor?"

"Because it is so highly improbable. Indeed, you will never be so near England again as you
are at this moment."

I looked through the port, and saw the long, flat Lincolnshire coast. The day was dull and
heavy, and the land was little more than a gray bank, but it meant much to me. I was being
carried away from all that I loved, from my sweetheart, my uncle, my friends, from everything
that had grown a part of my daily life. And I was going--where? That I knew not. Not to the
West Indies--no, I was sure of that. Captain Manuel Nunez was an accomplished liar in everything,
and I felt sure that he had another lie in reserve yet. At the thought of him and of Jasper's
villainy the blood boiled in my veins, and tears of rage and despair gathered in my eyes. But
what was the use of anger or sorrow? I was powerless.

I now made up my mind to show a good face to all these troubles and difficulties, and, therefore,
I strove to be as much at my ease as was possible under the circumstances. I walked the decks,
talked with such of the men as knew a word or two of English, and cultivated as much of the
captain's acquaintance as my aversion to his wickedness would permit. I learnt the names of
masts, sheets, stays, and sprits, and picked up other information of seafaring matters, thinking
that it might some day be useful to me. I am bound to say that Senor Manuel Nunez was very
courteous towards me. But what avails courtesy, when the courteous man is only waiting his
time to injure you?

We had been at sea something like three weeks, and had passed Ushant four days previously,
when, sailing south-by-west, we were overtaken by a gale and had to run before it with bare
poles. Upon the second morning, our lookout, gazing across a stormy sea, cried that he saw
a man clinging to a piece of wreckage on the lee bow, and presently all those on deck were
conscious of the same sight. The man was drifting and tossing half a mile away, and had seen
us, for he was making frantic efforts to attract our notice. I was somewhat surprised when
Captain Nunez took steps to rescue him, for it would have fitted in with my notion of his character
if he had suffered the wretch to remain unaided, However, he sent off a boat, which eventually
brought away the man from his piece of wreckage, and had hard work to make the ship again,
for the sea was running hard and high. The rescued man crouched in the stern, hiding his head
in his hands, so that I did not see his face until he came aboard. Then it seemed familiar,
but I could not bethink me where I had seen it before.

"And who art thou, friend?" asked Nunez.

"A mariner of Plymouth, good sir," answered the man, "and sole survivor of the ship Hawthorn.
Lost she is, and all hands, save only me."

Then I suddenly recognized him. It was the Cornish sailor, Pharaoh Nanjulian. So the sea had
given me a friend in need.

CHAPTER VI.

SCHEMES AND STRATAGEMS.

I was not minded to let Captain Nunez and the crew--every man of which was either Spaniard
or Portugee--see that I had any knowledge of the man whom they had rescued, and therefore I
presently went below and kept out of the way for a while. Somehow I felt a considerable sense
of gratification at the thought of the Cornishman's presence on board. He seemed to me a man
of resource and of courage, and I no sooner set eyes on him in this remarkable fashion, than
I began to think how he might aid me in making my escape from my present position.

After a time Nunez came down into the cabin where I sat, and began to talk with me.

"We have fallen in with a countryman of yours, Master Salkeld," said he, regarding me closely,
as if he wished to see how I took the news.

"Indeed!" said I. "The man just come aboard?"

"The same. A native of Cornwall, with an outlandish name, and an appetite as large as his body,
judging by the way he eats." Go away! "To the startled master penetrated
into the chamber and calmed the great companions. Trembling with fear, resentment and shame
at the same time they finally crawled back into bed and lay quietly side by side until the morning.
But the nightly ghost had been only a prelude of a larger terror, they now expected, as the
master of them opened at breakfast that he was not more than three Workers might need and,
therefore, two of them would have to migrate. Actually, they were the Good done too much and
so much product going that that part of it lay there, while had used the master to the increased
acquisition to the business than on the peak point stood, the more quickly to bring back, and led
such a happy life that he sometimes twice as much debt had when he was taking. Therefore,
it was the journeyman, so busy and abstemious as they were, suddenly a superfluous burden. He
told them to comfort, giving him all three equally dear to them about it would be and could be
among themselves to identify, which should stay there and which migrate. But they did not mind, but
were as pale as death and smiled one to another, then they got into a terrible Excitement
as this was the verhaengnisvollste hour, for the announcement of the master was a sure sign that
he does not drive much longer and finally Kammfabrikchen would be bought. So was the goal for
which they sought all, near and shone like a heavenly Jerusalem, and two were reversed at the gates
of it and his back . Contact Without any more for any Ruecksicht explained to want stay here,
and if it all would have to work for free. The Master was also not needed, and assured them
that would have to go in any event two of them and they fell at his feet, they wrung their hands,
they summoned him and asked in particular for each that he would like to keep him, only two months,
only four weeks alone, he knew well what they speculated, annoyed about it and made fun of her by
suddenly a fun-sac suggesting how they should decide the matter. "If you absolutely can not
agree," said he, "which of you want to leave, then I will specify the manner in which their decide
the matter, and so it shall then be and remain! Tomorrow is Sunday, I'll pay you out, it grabs
your knapsack, take your rod and wanders all three eintraechtiglich to the gate, a good half would
be far, on which side you want. Then it rests you out and could also drink a glass of wine
if you like, and you've done that, so moves her back again into the city, and which will then
be the first to me from respond to new work, I'll keep, but the others will go inevitable where
they like, "She fell at the feet again and asked him from this cruel Plan to abstain, but in
vain, he was firm and uncompromising. Suddenly jumped Schwabe up and ran like mad out of the
house over to Zues Buenzlin; hardly perceived This Jobst and Bayer, they stopped their moaning
and ran after him, and the So desperate scene was soon moved into the home of the frightened virgin.

This
was very upset and moved by the unexpected adventure, but took it at first, and the position
of looking things over, she decided her own fate at the master's to establish new wonderful idea,
and regarded this as a higher inspiration, she took stirred out a treasure chest and stabbed
with a needle between the leaves, and the Award, which she opened, concerns the unwavering
pursuit of a good goal.

Next let them turn to excited companions, and all that pitched them, acted eager to shift from the
narrow way, without the forwardgoing Rueckschauen by a Career, short of running and racing
of all kinds, so that the morning's race clearly from Sky was prescribed. As they feared, however,
that Dietrich easily as the youngest best jump and win the Palme could, she decided, even with
the three lovers to take off and see what would be about to make it to their advantage, for
they wished to only one of the two oldest winner would, and she was quite indifferent which
one. You therefore ordered the wailing and Bezankenden peace and resignation, saying: "Know,
my Friends, that nothing happens without meaning, and so strange and unusual, the imposition
your master, so we have to at least see it as an addition and us with a higher Wisdom, of which
the wanton man no suspects submit to this sudden decision. Our peaceful coexistence and understanding
has been beautiful, than that for a long time so edifying could take place, for, alas! Everything
beautiful and fruitful is so fleeting and temporary, and there is nothing in the length than
the disease, the persistent, and the Loneliness of the soul, then we look to our religious rationality
and observe. Therefore, we want to before such an evil demon of discord arises among us, we prefer
voluntarily separate and apart before a divorce as the love Fruehlingslueftlein if they take their
scurrying in the sky before we moved apart as the storm winds of autumn. I myself will also accompany
you on the major routes and be present when her the Pruefungslauf antretet so that their grasps
a cheerful courage and have a nice drive behind you, while the goal of victory in front of you waving.
But as the victor in his good fortune, over will increase, so should those who are not subject
to despair, and no grief or anger take from there, but our loving memories are expecting and as vergnuegte
Wanderjuenglinge out into the wide world, for many cities, people have built, which is so beautiful
or are even more beautiful as Seldwyla, Rome is a big, strange city, the holy allwo Father
lives, and even Paris is a great city with many beautiful souls and palaces, and there is the Sultan
in Constantinople from Turkish faith, and Lisbon, which once was buried by an earthquake, has been built
up again more beautiful. Vienna the capital of Austria and the Imperial City called, and London
is the richest city the world, located in England, on a river, the Thames is named. Two million
People live there! Petersburg is the capital and residence city of Russia, such as Naples the
capital of the Kingdom of the same name, with a fire-spewing mountain Vesuvius, on which once an English ship
captain a damned soul is released, as I I read in a strange itinerary, which some soul John Smidt
angehoeret, the hundred and fifty years ago was a godless man, and now said Captain an order
granted to his descendants in England, so he proceeds would, for the whole Fire Mountain is a stay
of the Damned, as well as in the learned Peter Hasler Traktatus about the suspected hell is the
opportunity to read. Many other cities are it, which I only Milan, Venice, which is built
entirely in the water, Lyon, Marseilingen, Strasbourg, Amsterdam and Koellen will call; Paris
I've already said, but not yet Nuernberg, Augsburg and Frankfurt, Basel, Bern and Geneva, all
beautiful cities, and the beautiful Zuerich, and further still a lot of their enumeration, I would
not be ready. For everything has its limits, not only the ingenuity of the people who spread
allwaerts and do everything that seems useful to them. If they are fair, it is them succeed,
but the unjust passes away like the grass of the fields and as the smoke. Many are chosen, but
few are called. For all these reasons and in still some other Respect, which impose on us the duty
and the virtue of our pure conscience, we do we undergo the fate calls. Go ye therefore, and prepare
for the move, but when just and gentle men, who wear their value in itself, where they go, and
their staff everywhere root suggests that what they like to take also can say: I have chosen
the better part! "

The Kammacher but wanted to hear nothing at all, but assailed the wise Zues that they should stay
there election one of them and hot, and everyone was referring to himself But she was careful
not to make a choice, and announced them seriously and authoritatively indicated that they would have
to obey them otherwise deprive them of their friendship for ever would. Now ran Jobst, the
oldest, back over it and into the house of the master, breakneck speed and ran the other behind
him, fearing that he there something about unternaehme it, and so they shot around all day
like shooting stars and were located so contrary to each other as three spiders in a network.
Half the town saw this strange Spectacle of troubled Kammacher, so far so still and been quiet,
and the old People were afraid and thought about it for the appearance of a mysterious sign
serious incidents. By evening they were weary and exhausted, without having to be a Better and
had prudently decided to do something, and lay down in the old zaehneklappernd
Bed, one after the other, crawled under the covers and lay there as
the death stretched in confused thoughts until a healing sleep enveloped
him.

Jobst was the first who in all Awoke early and saw that a gay Fruehlingsmorgen appeared in the
chamber in which Now he slept in six years. The room looked so flimsy, so it seemed to him but like
a paradise, which he was to leave in such a way unfairly. He had his eyes move around on the
walls and counted all the familiar signs of the many Fellows who have lived here longer or shorter
time, here was the head of his rub maintained and manufactured a dark spot, where a nail that
had taken, daranzuhaengen to his pipe, and the red clockwork was still hanging on it. What good
people had it been that they went away again as harmless, while those who find it were, certainly
did not want to give way. Then he fixed his eye first on the area's Face and looked at as
the small objects, which he considered a thousand times, when the morning or evening when daylight
lay in bed in a blissful, enjoyed free existence. There was a damaged area in the grout, which like
a Country looked with lakes and small towns, and a small pile of coarse Sandkoernern provided
a Blessed archipelago off, still stretched a long hog bristle, which consists of like a brush
and stuck in the whitewash was blue, for Jobst had in the past Autumn once found a small remnant
of such whitewash, and so it should not perish, fourth side of the wall painted, so far as it was
rich, and that he had the Body paint, where he first lay in bed. protruded beyond the pig bristles
but a very small increase, as a small, blue mountains, which has a soft drop shadow over The
bristle away to the blissful islands hinueberwarf. About this mountain he had brooded all
winter as it seemed to him, as if it was not previously existed. As He is now with his sad
eyes duselnden tried the same thing and suddenly missing, trust he senses his little when he
found instead of it a little bald spot on the wall, however, saw the tiny blue mountain is not
moving it far, and seemed to walk. Astonished Jobst jumped up as if he saw a nasty surprise, and
saw that there was a Bug was that he so carelessly repainted last fall with the color, as they
already had been sitting in solidification. But now it was revitalized by the new Fruehlingswaerme
had be opened and rose just at that moment assiduously with their blue backs the wall ascended.
He looked agitated and full of wonder, as long as they did in the blue, it was almost indistinguishable
from the wall, but as she stepped from the deleted region and the last isolated syringe was
behind him, converted the good sky-blue creatures afar his way through the darker areas. Jobst
melancholy fell in Pfuelmen back, any more than he otherwise of like, this phenomenon did but
now a feeling in him, but also as if he finally would have to move, and it beduenkte him to be
a good sign that he is the inevitable result and at least should do with good will on the road.
This turned his thoughts quiet natural Prudence and wisdom back, and by the matter more closely
considered, he found that, if he ergebungsvoll and modest rather than to the difficult work in
to it and Take this together and behave wisely, he most likely to prevail over his rivals can.
He carefully got out of bed and began to arrange his things and above all his Treasury to lift
and supported in the old portmanteau packed. About it at once awakened his companions, as they
saw it, so calm that he packed his bags, wondering they very much and even more when Jobst addressed
them with conciliatory words and give them a good morning wished. He also let himself but is
not, but went into his shops quietly and peacefully away. Immediately, though they did not know
what he intends to lead in the shield, they sensed a ruse in his behavior and received it
after on the spot, Hoechst attention to everything that he also would begin. It was strange, as
all three for the first time open their treasures beneath the tiles and brought forth the same
without them , Count-served in the knapsack. Because they knew long ago that everyone has
the secret of rest knew, and the old honest way, they lost confidence not in the way that they
feared a breach of property, and everyone knew that for him the other would not deprive such because
in the bedrooms of the craftsmen, soldiers, and the like should be no closure and lack of confidence.

They
were prepared against the sudden departure, the master of them paid the wages and gave them their
Wanderbuecher, in which the master of the city and the most beautiful of all products were written
about their continued good leadership and excellence, and they were wistfully before the front
door of Zues Buenzlin in long brown skirts, dressed with old, faded dust shirts about it, and
hats, although the statute of limitation and abgebuerstet enough were, covered carefully with waxed
canvas. On the back of the backpack had each a small Little cart attached to pull out the luggage,
if it went into space, thinking but the wheels do not need to, and therefore the same rose high
above their backs. Jobst leaning on a cane honest, Fridolin flamed on a red and black and painted
Ash Staff and Dietrich on an adventurous floor monster, around which a wild tangle of branches
wall. He was ashamed of this but almost boastful thing, as there from the first time migrant came
from, where he is far from being so crucial and reasonable have been like now. Many neighbors
and their children stood around the grave three Men and wished them luck on their way. Since
Zues appeared in the doorway, with solemn Face, and put on the top of the journeymen taken courage
from the gate. She had them Honor created an unusual state, a big hat wearing yellow bands
with thick, a pink Indiennekleid with missing projections and ornaments, a black Sammetschaerpe
Tombakschnalle and with a red morocco shoes with fringes. This was due they have a large green
silk Ritikuel, which they filled with dried pears and plums had stretched out, holding a parasol,
on which above a large lyre of ivory stood. They also had slung her locket with blond hair and
the golden statue Forget-me-not pre-mounted and wore white knit gloves. She looked friendly
and tender in all of this jewelry, her face was slightly red and her breasts seemed to be higher
than to raise otherwise, and the moving out rival did not leave before nostalgia and sorrow, for the
outermost layer of things, the beautiful spring day, of their exodus
shone, and Zuesis plaster mixed in their feelings strained almost
something of what you really love is called.

Outside the door, but warned the friendly Virgin her lovers, to put the knapsack on the little
wheels, roll and move, so they do not unnoetigerweise tired. They did, and as they left the little
town hinanfuhren beyond the mountains, was it almost like an artillery system, which went up
werkt there to fill up to a battery. As they trudged along for a good half hour, they stopped
on a graceful hill, over which the Cross, went and sat down under a linden tree in a half circle,
where and enjoyed a wide view over forests, lakes and towns looked the other way. Zues opens her
bag and gave each a handful of pears and plums to cool off, and they sat there for a long while
in silence and serious, with only the snapping tongue when you the sweet fruits crushed by
saying that a soft sound exciting.

Zues then began by throwing away a plum-like core and dyed his fingertips on the young grass, wiped,
to speak: "Dear friends, Look how beautiful and spacious! the world is full of beautiful things
around and full of human dwellings! And yet I would bet that as in this solemn hour anywhere
in this vast world of four justify and benign souls gathered together sitting, as we are here, so
ingeniously and considerate of mind, so fond of all the exercises, and laborious virtues of
seclusion, of economy, peaceful and intimate friendship. How many flowers are here around us, of all
types, which produces the spring, especially the yellow scabious, which are tasty and healthy
tea type, but they are just or industrious? sparingly, carefully and skillfully to wise and instructive
thoughts? No, they are ignorant and mindless creatures, inanimate and irrational they are wasting
their time, and so beautiful they are is a dead hay of it while we in our virtue superior to them
so far and are they truly give the form of decorative nothing, for God has us in his Image
created and blown us his divine breath. Oh could we but here forever Sitting in this paradise,
and in such innocence, yes, my friends, I feel as if We are all in a state of innocence, but by
a refined knowledge of sinlessness, for We can all read and write thanks be to God, and all
have a skillful and handling learned.


"I could swear that I am but dreaming and shall presently awake to find myself a prisoner,"
I said to Pharaoh, who was busily engaged in examining the boat.

"'Tis no dream, master," said he. "This is a very stern reality, as you shall quickly find.
Nor is it time for dreaming. If we mean to come out of this adventure with whole skins, we
shall have to acquit ourselves like true men."

"I am ready," said I. "Tell me what to do, and I will do it."

"Well said," he answered approvingly. "But I could see from the outset that you had the true
spirit in you. You are a Yorkshireman, master, and I am a sea-dog of Cornwall; but, marry,
we are both Englishmen, and we will come out of this scrape yet. 'Tis not the worst I have
been in--but more of that anon. Now to begin with, we will discuss our present situation, and
then, having determined our course of action, we will put it into execution."

So we talked things over, and eventually came to these conclusions. We were, so far as Pharaoh
could reckon, about ten miles from land, and we must reach the coast during the night if we
wished to escape observation. That accomplished, we must strike across country for Acapulco,
where it was possible we might meet with an English ship. The distance was some three hundred
miles in a bee-line, and the character of the country rough; but that mattered little, for
we should of necessity be obliged to keep away from the roads and bridges. There was no considerable
town on our way, save Oaxaca, and that we must leave to our left. If we fell in with Spaniards
we were lost men, for they would certainly carry us to Vera Cruz or to Mexico, and there hand
us over to the Inquisitors. As for wild beasts and Indians, we must take our chance, trusting
in God's mercy for protection and help.

We now examined the boat, which was but a small craft that had been unstrung the day before,
in order that the ship's carpenter might examine some fancied defect in the rudder. Fortunately
a pair of oars had been left in her, and these Pharaoh now took in hand, bidding me steer for
the volcanic flame, which played over the peak of Tuxtla, immediately before us.

"I can pull ten miles in this sea," said he, "and I warrant you have had little experience
in that line, master. Now, you see that the wind has drifted us due south until to-night, and
therefore Nunez has come some five-and-thirty miles out of his course for Vera Cruz. He will
now beat up along the coast, heading north and west, and so if we steer south-by-east he will
have hard work to catch us when he finds that we are gone, as he will ere morning. And now
to work."

Thereupon he fell to the oars, and with such good-will, that the light craft, her nose kept
towards the volcanic fire, began to shoot through the regular swell of the placid ocean at
a comfortable rate. Hour after hour he toiled, and would hear naught of my relieving him, though
his throat grew dry with thirst and his arms ached. Gradually the coast loomed higher and higher
through the gloom, and at length Pharaoh pulled in his oars, and stood up in the bow to look
around him.

"When I was off this coast ten years ago," said he, "I remember a spot hereabouts where a boat
might land with safety and ease. We will lie quiet till the light comes, master, and then attempt
a landing."

"But suppose Nunez should see us?"

"He could not catch us ere we land if he did, unless by some strange chance he has gotten to
the east of us--and that's not possible," said Pharaoh. "I reckon that by this time he is twenty
miles to westward of us, and therefore we are well out of his reach."

So we hove-to until the morning began to break, when, spying a convenient creek, we ran the
boat ashore, and so set foot on Mexican soil, wondering what was to befall us next.

Now, to me, who had never seen aught of any land save England, these new surroundings were
exceeding strange and wonderful. Although it was yet but a half-light all round us on shore,
the giant peak of Orizaba, rising high and magnificent across the land to the north-west, was
already blazing in the saffron-colored tints of early morning, while directly above us the
lower heights of Tuxtla also reflected the rays of the rising sun. Once away from the shore
the vegetation surprised and delighted me exceedingly. Great trees, such as I had never seen
or heard of, sprang from the rocks and towered above us like gigantic ferns; the undergrowth
was thick and luxurious, and the grass under foot was soft and heavy as velvet. Also, though
it was winter, there were flowers and plants blossoming in the open such as never blossom in
our English glass-houses, so that altogether I was amazed at the richness and prodigality of
the land, and said so to my companion.

"Aye," said he, "'tis indeed a fair land, master, and would be very well if these murderous
Spaniards had left it alone. As it is, they have simply turned it into a pandemonium, such
as all lands, fair or foul, become when men go a-lusting for gold and treasure. Yea, not even
the Indians, with all their heathenish practices, were half so cruel as these Spaniards with
their racks and thumb-screws, their stakes and daggers. And therefore the more reason why we
should avoid them."

Having somewhat refreshed ourselves by a brief rest, and armed ourselves with two stout cudgels
cut from a neighboring tree by Pharaoh's knife, which was the only weapon we had, we set forth
through the woods, he leading the way. By that time we were faint with hunger and could well
have done with a meal, but though there were, doubtless, Indian villages close at hand we dare
enter none of them, and so went forward with empty stomachs. In the woods, however, we came
upon prickly pears, which there grow wild, and these we essayed to eat; but had great difficulty
in stripping them of the prickles, which, if they enter the tongue, do cause an unpleasantness
that is not soon forgot. Our hunger growing very keen we sought to capture or slay some bird
or animal, and Pharaoh being accustomed to this sort of hunting--for he had known many adventures--presently
succeeded in knocking down a wild turkey, flocks of which bird we constantly encountered. We
lighted a fire by means of his flint and steel, and cooked our quarry, and so went forward
again refreshed by the food, which was pleasant enough to hungry men.

We pressed on for two days through the woods, living as we best could upon such animals as
Pharaoh was able to knock down, and on the pears, which were all the more aggravating to our
hunger because of their sharp spines. During those two days we did not come in contact with
human beings, though we thrice saw parties of Indians and had to conceal ourselves from them.
We followed no path, and if we chanced to cross one we immediately left it and plunged deeper
into the woods. By the end of the first day our clothes were torn to rags, and hung in strips
from our backs; by the end of the second our shoes had been cut to pieces, and so we looked
as wretched and lost a couple of vagabonds as you ever saw.

On the evening of the second day we came to the verge of the wooded heights, and saw before
us the wide plain of Orizaba, which lay between us and Acapulco, and must needs be crossed
if we meant to reach the Pacific coast.

"It is here that I see most reason to be a-feared," said Pharaoh, as we halted and looked out
across the plain. "There is precious little cover or shelter on this plain, and it will be
a miracle if we escape observation in crossing it. Moreover, there are constantly traversing
it bodies of Spaniards, going to and from Oaxaca and Mexico, so that we shall be liable to
capture at any moment, having nowhere to hide ourselves."

"How would it do to hide ourselves as we best can by day, and to go forward by night?" said I.

"'Tis a good notion, master, and we will try it," he answered. "But I fear me there is little
in which we can hide, and as for food, I do not see how we are to manage. Howbeit, we will
not despair yet awhile, having managed so far."

That night we accordingly made our way across the wide and lonely plain, having for our guide
the constellation Virgo, which Pharaoh Nanjulian knew and pointed out to me with some learning.

"Them that go down to the sea in ships," said he, "must needs learn a good deal if they would
prosper. I have studied the heavens somewhat, because more than once it has been my lot to
find myself at sea without a compass, and in a plight like that a knowledge of the stars and
planets is a good thing for a man to have at his command. Now, if we do but set our faces to
yonder constellation we shall keep in a straight line for Acapulco--and God send we may land
there safely!"

We made fairly good progress across the plain, but when morning broke from the eastern horizon
we were still many a long mile from the great terrace of mountainous land which divides Mexico
from Oaxaca and the Pacific coast. Therefore we had to cast about us for some shelter. This
we had great difficulty in securing, for the plain at that part was entirely barren of shrub
or tree, and there was not even a water-course at which we could slack our parched throats.
But coming upon a half-ruined hut, which had evidently been the home of some Mexican Indian,
tending his sheep in those wild parts, we took refuge in it and lay down to sleep, hoping that
no one passing that way would feel curious enough to stop and examine our shelter.

This sort of life continued to be our lot for another day and night, during which we had scarcely
anything in the way of food, and also suffered severely from thirst. And what with this, and
with our fear of meeting Indians and Spaniards materially increased, our condition was by no
means a happy one. But we still continued to hope, and to cheer each other onward.

CHAPTER IX.

AN ADVENTURE OF SOME IMPORTANCE.

We traveled in this fashion, sleeping in the daytime and pressing forward during the night,
until the sixth day after our departure from the ship. By that time we were both considerably
changed in health and appearance. Our clothes were torn to rags, our feet and arms were torn
and bleeding, and our vagabond air increased with every mile we covered. Of our looks, however,
we thought nothing; but we were perforce obliged to think a good deal of our unfortunate stomachs,
which had not been either filled or reasonably satisfied since we set foot in those regions.
Hunger and privation, in short, were doing their work upon us, and we were doubtful if we should
manage to hold out until we had crossed the country and made Acapulco.

Towards evening of the sixth day of our travels, we were lying asleep in a little gully formed
by the descent of a mountain stream into the plain which we were then quitting. We had arrived
at this spot early that morning, and finding sweet and fresh water there had drunk heartily
of it and lain down to sleep in a sheltered spot. We were both well-nigh exhausted that morning,
and our hunger was exceeding fierce; but sharp-set as we were our limbs refused to carry us
on any foraging expedition, and therefore we sank to sleep, and slept despite our hunger and
danger. It was well towards evening when I suddenly awoke. I know not what it was that made
me open my eyes so suddenly, but there flashed through my mind at that moment a notion that
we were being watched. It was a strange feeling, and one that occasioned me considerable discomposure,
not to say fright, and it seemed to enter my brain with the same ray of sunlight that lifted
my eyelids. And so strong was this feeling, that I experienced no surprise or astonishment
when I saw two eyes looking straight into mine from over the top of a rock which rose immediately
in front.

Nevertheless it was a hideous and fearful sight that I looked upon. The eyes shone, not out
of a human face foul or fair, but out of the slits in a black cowl, drawn so tightly over its
wearer's head that nothing of him was to be seen from forehead to chin. There was this horrible
black thing, a blot upon the bright sunlit sky behind, peeping at me from over the rock, and
out of its eye-holes gleamed two eyes, as keen and bright as those of a wild animal. If I had
not just then been parched with thirst I should have screamed in my terror. As it was, I gave
a feeble cry, and the black head instantly vanished. I leapt to my feet and ran forward to
the rock. Below it the ground was broken and rocky, and at a few yards' distance was a belt
of wood which stretched down to the plain. I fancied I could see a black robe disappearing
amongst the trees, but though I waited a few moments I saw no further signs of a human being.

I returned to Pharaoh Nanjulian and woke him up. He was sound asleep when I touched him, but
started to his feet as soon as I laid my hand on his shoulder.

"What is it, master?" he asked, scanning my face narrowly, as if he saw some sign of disturbance
there. "You look alarmed."

"I have seen a man watching us."

"What kind of a man? Where has he gone?"

"Nay, that I know not. When I opened my eyes just now they fell full upon him. He stood behind
that rock, peering over it at me. I saw naught of him but his head, and that was hidden in
a black cowl with eye-slits, through which his eyes gleamed like fire."

Pharaoh shook his head.

"'Tis a Familiar," said he. "One of those accursed fanatics, master, that dog and pry after
honest men like sleuth-hounds, and leave them not until the flame licks their bodies. This
is bad news, i' faith. Which way went he?"

I told him that I thought I had seen a black robe vanishing among the trees below, but could
not be certain. At that he seized his staff and went down the slope himself, examining all
the likely places in which a man might have concealed himself. But he found naught, and so
came back to me, shaking his head.

"You are sure you were not dreaming?" he asked. "Men dream of strange things when hunger is
on them."

"How could I dream of what I never saw in my life?" said I.

"You mean the black hood, master? Alas! I have seen it, and so has many a good man, to his
sorrow. Those accursed fanatics! They creep about in God's blessed sunlight like reptiles.
You should see them walk the streets. Close to the walls they go, their hands meekly folded,
their cowled heads bent to the ground, and yet their eyes note everything. God is on their
lips--yea, but the devil is in their hearts."

"What shall we do, Pharaoh?" I asked him.

"Marry, all we can do is to leave this spot and push forward up the mountains. There are yet
two hours of daylight, but we must chance that. If we can escape this fellow until darkness
sets in, we may yet give him the slip altogether."

So we set out once more, our bodies refreshed by our long sleep, but the hunger still fiercely
gnawing within us. We were driven to plucking the prickly pears again, troublesome as was the
peeling of them, for we could eat them as we walked, whereas if we had gone a-hunting for wild
turkeys or rabbits we should have had to light a fire, and that would have attracted attention
to our whereabouts. However, we were successful in knocking down one or two birds, and these
we took along with us, intending to cook them as soon as we considered ourselves in safety.

As night fell we emerged from the wooded slope up which we had painfully traveled, and found
ourselves on a good road, evidently much used for traffic.

"This must be the highway that leads from Oaxaca to Vera Cruz," said Pharaoh, looking out upon
it from a sheltering tree; "and lo! yonder is a post-house. We must bide awhile where we are
or we shall be seen."

So we sat down amongst the undergrowth, which was there thick and luxurious, as it was in every
wood we had yet crossed, and served to conceal us very well from observation. More than once,
as we stayed there, we heard the voices of people passing along the highroad above, and we
judged from that, that if we ventured to show ourselves upon it before nightfall we should
certainly be seen and stopped. Therefore, apart from our usual hunger and discomfort, we were
very well content to remain hidden until such time as the coast cleared.

Now about dark, and just as we were making up our minds to a fresh start, and wondering how
we should fare in the mountainous range which we had yet to cross, there arose not far away
along the highroad a chorus of shouts and screams of such exceeding bitterness, that we felt
sure murder was being done. We leapt to our feet and advanced to the edge of the highway, but
feared to go further lest we should be seen.

"'Tis some footpad affray," said Pharaoh, "and none of our business."

But just then came still shriller cries of entreaty for help, and they were so pleading and
full of agony, that we both leapt into the road with one accord.

"That is a woman's voice," said Pharaoh. "We must needs go to her assistance, come what will.
Have your staff in readiness, master, and if there is need, strike hard."

We ran swiftly down the road for some fifty yards, and then, turning a sharp corner, came suddenly
upon the cause of the disturbance. In the middle of the highway stood a coach, drawn by two
mules, and on either side of it were two tall fellows of ferocious aspect, striving to drag
from it the occupants, who screamed for help without ceasing. There was no driver or servant
visible; the rogues had doubtless escaped to the woods at the first sign of danger.

"Take the two on the left," said Pharaoh, "and get in the first blow, master. Look out for
their daggers."

Now I had never been engaged in a fight since the days when Jasper and I occasionally came
to fisticuffs with the village boys at Beechcot, but I felt my blood warm at the notion of
combat, and so I sprang in between the two desperadoes who were busy at the left side of the
coach, and laid my staff about their ears with hearty good-will. They were trying to drag an
old man from the coach when we came up, and were threatening him with what I took to be the
most horrible of curses. I hit one of them fair and square on the shoulder before he knew of
my presence, and he immediately turned and fled, howling like a beaten dog. The other turned
on me with a cruel-looking knife, but I knocked it out of his hand with a blow that must have
broken his wrist, and he too fled into the woods with a fearful imprecation. Meanwhile, Pharaoh
had beaten off his men on the other side; one was limping along the highway howling with pain,
and the other lay on the ground senseless. We had carried the fight with sharp and startling
effect.

Inside the coach sat an old gentleman and a young girl, and both were so frightened, that when
we assisted them to alight they were nearly speechless, and could only sigh and moan. Presently,
however, the young lady found her tongue, and began to pour out an astonishingly rapid flow
of words to me, none of which I understood, but which I took to be expressions of gratitude.

"Say naught," whispered Pharaoh in my ear, "I will talk to them in their own lingo. Do not
let them see that we are English."

"Noble gentlemen," said the old man, presently recovering his speech, "I know not how to thank
you for this valuable assistance. Caramba! if you had not appeared when you did we should certainly
have had our throats cut. Isabella mia, art thou safe? Did those knaves lay finger on thee?"

"They did but seize me by the wrist, father," answered the young lady. "But yourself--you are
not hurt?"

"Nay, child, I called too loudly for that. But certainly another moment would have been our
last. Senor, is yonder villain dead?"

"Nay," said Pharaoh in his best Spanish, "he breathes, Senor, and will come to presently."

"I am beholden, deeply beholden to you both, gentlemen. Dios! to think that I should be unable
to travel on even so short a journey with safety! And my own servants--where are they, rascals
and poltroons that they are. Ho! Pedro, Chispa, Antonio! I warrant me the knaves are hiding
in these woods."

This was exactly the truth, for at the old gentleman's call three serving-men came forward
from the trees and advanced tremblingly towards the coach. At sight of them their master flew
into a terrible rage, and scolded them with a vigor which at any other time would have amused
me highly.

"Cowards and knaves that ye are!" quoth he. "A pretty body-guard, indeed. What, ye pitiful
rogues, did I not fit ye all out with pikes and pistols before quitting Mexico in case we met
with ventures of this sort? Oh, ye poltroons, to fly me at the first glimpse of danger! And
thou, Pedro Gomez, my coachman these ten years, fie upon thee!"

"Most noble Senor," said the man, trembling and bowing, "I did but run to find assistance."

"Thou liest, knave. Thou didst run to save thine own skin. But I will remember ye when we are
safe in Oaxaca. I will have a convoy of soldiers over these mountains, and trust not to pitiful
cowards like ye three. Tie me up this robber who lies there in the road, and fasten him behind
the coach. We will see justice done on him at Oaxaca."

While the men were doing this the old gentleman once more talked to Pharaoh, thanking us again,
and asking how he could reward us. Were we journeying to Oaxaca? If so, let us go along with
him, and he would reward us bounteously for our protection.

"We thank your honor," said Pharaoh, "but we are two poor shipwrecked mariners, bound across
country to Acapulco, where we hope to find ship. But if you would give us food and drink we
would thank you, for in good sooth we are desperately hungered."

Now it luckily chanced that the coach was well supplied with both the commodities which we
desired so earnestly, and, therefore, the old gentleman made haste to reward us according to
Pharaoh's request, so that presently we found ourselves with our arms full of meat and bread
and bottles of wine, our new-found friend pressing all upon us with great hospitality. Also,
he would have us to take a purse of money, assuring us that we should find it useful, and as
we had not a penny-piece between us we accepted this offering with thankfulness.

"I am sorry that ye cannot accompany me to Oaxaca," said he. "I should have been glad of the
company of two such stalwart champions. But know, caballeros, that I am devoutly thankful to
you, and will aid you if ever ye have need of me, and it lies in my power."

So we thanked him and said farewell for that time, and when the coach had gone on, taking the
wounded prisoner with it, we continued our way up the mountains, first supping heartily of
the food and wine, and blessing God for it.

"'Tis always well to help them that need help," said Pharaoh. 

As a mirror in his cage he finally bold enough to think, he lost no longer, but presented before
the eyes of the attentive cat harness and manage all made a bright Fire on the stove to boil
the long-awaited win. Then he sharpened a large knife, opened the prison, took out mirrors, well
after he closed the Kuechentuere, and said cheerfully: "Come, you Sapperloeter We want both
sides that you cut off his head! and then pull the fur! This is a warm hat for me to give what
I simpleton have not even thought of! Or shall I only remove the skin and then cut off his head?
" "No, if you please," Spiegel said humbly, "would rather cut his head first!" "You're right, you poor
guy!" said Mr. Pineiss, "we do not want to torment you useless! All what is right! "" This is a true
word! "Spiegel said in a pitiful sighs and put the main ergebungsvoll on the page, "o 'I should
have done at any time, right is, and not let such an important matter lightly, I could now better
Some die, I die happy, but an injustice to me makes the otherwise welcome Death, for what
life offers me? Nothing but fear, worry and poverty and for a change a storm consuming passion, which
is even worse than the still trembling fear! " "Oh, the injustice, the important thing?" Pineiss
asked curiously. "Oh what good is Still talk now, "sighed the mirror," is done and done now
is to late to repent! " "You see, Zounds, what are you a sinner?" Pineiss said, "and although you
have your Deserve death? But what thousands have you been up to? Do you have something stolen
from me, perhaps, alienated, corrupt? Have you done me a blatant injustice, which I still
do know nothing, suspect suspect you Satan? To me are beautiful stories! Good thing I still get
behind it! At once I Confess, or I'll flay and boil up out alive! Will you speak or not? "" Oh no,
"said Spiegel," because of you I have not done anything wrong. It relates to the ten thousand
gold florins my late mistress - but what is speeches - is true - if I reflect and look at you,
it might perhaps be not quite too late - if I look at you, I see that you are a still very nice
and active man, in the prime of life - tell me, Mr. Pineiss! Have you ever felt such a desire, you
to marry, honorable and beneficial? But what I chat! How is an intelligent and artistically rich man
come on like idle thoughts! How is such a useful busied Most people think of foolish women!
Admittedly, however, also has the worst yet something at what is useful for such a man is not
to deny! And if they only or less is good enough, so is a good housewife know about the body,
carefully in mind zutulich Sion, loyal heart, economical to manage, but wasteful in the care
of her Man, entertaining in pleasant words and their deeds, insinuating in their actions! She kisses
the man with her mouth and stroked his beard, it surrounds him with their Herb and his arms
behind his ears as he wishes, in short, doing a thousand things that not to be discarded. She
holds him close to or in modest distance, the on his mood, and if he carries on his business, it
disturbs him, but distributed under the his praise in and outside the home, because they can
not come to him and exalt all that is in it! But that grace is the wonderful nature of their delicate
physical existence, which nature has made so different in nature from our Menschenaehnlichkeit
apparent that there is a continual miracle in a sea glueckhaften Marriage causes and ultimately
to the drive through all kinds of magic in it! But what chatter because I like a gate on the
threshold of death! As a wise man to the like vanities directed his attention! Excuse me, Mr. Pineiss,
and cut off my head! "

Pineiss cried fiercely: "So keep holding it at last, you Schwaetzer and tell me: Where is a
such, it has ten thousand gold florins? "

"Ten thousand gold florins?" said Spiegel.

"Well," Pineiss cried impatiently, "you did not talk just now about it?"

"No," replied the other, "that's another thing!

The lie buried in one place!"

"And what they do because of who they belong?" Pineiss cried.

"No they belong, it's my Gewissensbuerde, because I would have to put them should! Actually, they
belong to that who marries such a person, as I just described have. But how to bring together
three such things in this wicked city: ten thousand Gold florins, a white, fine and good house
wife and a wise, honest man?

Therefore, my sin is actually not too big, because the job was too hard for a poor Cat! "

"If you now," cried Pineiss, "not stay on task, it understandable and of order dartust after, so I
cut you a provisional basis from the tail and ears! Now begin! "

"Since you are ordered to build so I need to tell the cause of it,"
said Spiegel, and sat down left its Hinterfuesse, "although this delay
only increased my suffering!"

Pineiss put the sharp knife between them and the mirror in the hall and sat down to a curious
Kegs to listen, and mirrors continued

"You know, Herr Pineiss that the brave person, my blessed Master unmarried, died as an old
maid who quietly did good and anyone against lived added. But not always it had happened around
them still and quiet, and although they never was of evil mind, so she had once much suffering
and damage caused, for In her youth she was the most beautiful Fraeulein far and wide, and what
young men and bold fellows in the area of ​​the road was or was, fell in love with her and wanted
her definitely get married. Now they probably had a great desire to marry and a nice, honorable
to make and wise man, and she had the choice, since they are locals and foreigners and fought
each other more than once ran the sword in the body in order to gain priority. It applied for,
they gathered and boldly and timid, cunning and ingenuous, Free rich and poor, those with a good
and decent business, and those which pensioners living on their dainty as pensions, that with
this, that with those advantages, or eloquent silence which has a lively and lovable, and another, it
seemed more in itself to have if he looked a bit silly in short, the lady had such a perfect
Selection as a marriageable woman could wish for. But they possessed except its beauty a nice
fortune of thousands of gold florins, and these were the Reason that they never meet walked
in, a choice and can take a man, because they managed her estate with admirable prudence and wisdom
and put a high value on the same And since man is always judged by his own inclinations of others,
so it was that, as soon as you approached a respectable value-free, and she liked halfway, soon
be imagined, the same as seeking only to their good will. Was a rich, thought them, he would
surely not covet, while far-reaching would be, and the have nots took it as completely certain that
they had only their gold florins in the eye and mind amicably were thinking to do, and the poor
lady, but to which even such great things the earthly possession was, was not able to this
love of money and goods to their suitors distinguished from the love of her own, or if she really
was there about the same look up and to forgive. Several times she was engaged as Sogut and her heart
beat finally stronger, but suddenly she believed to be taken from any course that they reveal was
and think only of their assets, and they broke the story in two, without delay and retired in pain,
but inexorably back. The Commission investigated all that you do not disliked, in a hundred
ways, so that a great skill was part of it, not in the Case to go, and last no longer able
to approach with some hope, as one who grated and well disguised man was, so to finally have
these reasons, the Choice was really hard because these people will last but a weird trouble
and leave the most painful uncertainty to give a full-color, each and grated clever they are.
The main means to check their worshipers, was that their altruism to the test and every day
to big spending, rich gifts and a charitable Actions initiated. But they want to do as they liked,
they never met the rights, for they showed themselves generous and self-sacrificing, she gave a bright,
festive, brought they present their gifts, or for their considerable funds entrusted to her, she said
they suddenly all this done just to catch a worm for the salmon or to throw the sausage to
the bacon, as they say. And the gifts they vergabte both how the money entrusted to monasteries
and charitable foundations, and feed the poor, but Free the deceived them mercilessly dismissed.
Manifested itself the same but holding back or even stingy, so was the staff immediately about
them broken, because the still much worse accepted and recognized it a vile and naked ruthlessness
and self-love thought. So it happened that, which was looking for a pure and devoted heart only
their persons, as last was surrounded by pretended cunning and eigensuechtigen free people from
which they was never wise, and their lives embittered. One day she felt so morose and desolate,
that they had their whole yard of the house, the same zuschloss and to Milan traveled, where they
had one base. When they over the St. Gotthard was riding a donkey, was their attitude as black
and scary, like the wild rock that is out of the abyss emportuermte, and she felt the most violent
temptation in the Teufelsbruecke the raging waters of the Reuss, ICIMOD. Only with the greatest
difficulty was the two Maids who were with her, and I've even known yet, but which now have long
dead, and the leaders to reassure them and turn from the dark mood. But they arrived pale and
sad in the beautiful country of Italy, and there the sky so blue was, who wanted to lighten her
dark thoughts not. But as for several days at her cousin stays should unexpectedly sounded
a different tune and a Fruehlingsanfang absorbed in it, from which they knew his date still
not much. For there came a young fellow in the House of the base, the same liked her at first
sight so much that you say well can they now fell by itself and for the first time. It was a handsome
youth, of good breeding and fine manners, not poor and not rich at present, because he had nothing
than ten thousand crowns, which he inherited from his deceased parents and how he, as He had
learned the merchants wanted to substantiate in Milan a trade in silk, for He was enterprising
and well thought of and had a sure hand as unbiased and innocent people often have, for this was
also the young man, he seemed so well-taught he was, yet so guileless and innocent as a child.
And although he was a merchant and a so ingenuous mind, which is already composed a delicious
rarity, he was still firmly and chivalrous in his bearing and bearing his sword so boldly to the
side, as only a skilled Soldier can carry. All this, and forced his fresh beauty and youth the
heart of the lady so that she could hardly contain herself and him with great Ease met. It was
again clear, and when she was in between also sad it did so in the exchange of love hope and
fear, which after all, a more noble and was more comfortable feeling than that embarrassment
in the election, which they formerly the many suitors felt. Now they had only one trouble and
concern, namely, that to please the beautiful and good young man, and she was even more beautiful,
more humiliate and uncertain she was, now that she had taken for the first time a true passion.
But the young clerk had never seen such beauty, or at least was not yet been so close, and
treated her so kindly and been like. Since they now as I said, not only beautiful but also
good heart and fine of Sion was, it is not at all surprising that the open and fresh young man,
whose heart is still very free and inexperienced, was also in love with her and with all his
might and frankness, the whole of his nature was. But perhaps no one would have to know the when,
in his simplicity had not been encouraged by the Miss Zutulichkeit, which he with secret trepidation
dared keep his love for a reply, as he himself no adjustment knew. But he controlled himself a
couple of weeks and believed to conceal the matter; but everyone looked at him from afar, that
he was in love for the dying, and if he do in the Near the Miss fell or was just called, we
saw the same, with whom he falls in love was. It was not long in love, but really began to love
all its ferocity his youth, so he was the young lady the highest and best in the world, to which
He was always one for the salvation and the whole value of his own person. This pleased its
about the masses well, for it was in everything he said or did, a different way than they experience
so far, and it confirms and touched her so deeply that it is now equally the strongest love
and now fell prey to no longer be a choice, it was mentioned. Everyone saw this story play,
and it was discussed openly and frequently joked. The lady was greatly comfortable about it, and
as you break the heart from anxious expectation wanted, she helped the novel by her side but a little
entangled and spin out to him right to enjoy and savor. Because the young man committed suicide
in his confusion such a delicious and childish things, like they never learn, and for once she flattering
and were more comfortable than the other. But he in his rectitude and honesty could not endure
long way; as each alluded to it and is allowed a joke, it seemed him to be a comedy, as its object
is to him his lover too good and holy was, and what pleases her exceedingly, that made him
anxious, uncertain and at a loss for them itself. He also believed it to insult and deceive
when he long since such a violent Passion for her herumtruege and incessantly think of her without
having any idea have what was not at all proper and he is not himself right! Therefore, one could
see him one Mornings from afar, that he did something, and he confessed his love in a few words,
to it once and never to say a second time, if not he should be happy. For he was not used to think
that such a nice and well crafted as Fraeulein not to say their true opinion and not the same
for the first time its indisputable Yes or should say no. He was as tender-minded than violently
in love, just as brittle as childlike and as proud as unbiased, and with him it was like life
and death, to Yes or No, blow for blow. At the same moment, however, in whom she be Confession
sounded so anxiously awaiting them, they broke into her old suspicion, and It occurred to
her to an unhappy hour, that her lover was a merchant, who at the end of their assets to obtain
only wishes to expand his operations. If he beside a little should be in love with her person,
would be at the beauty of their no particular merit and all the more infuriating when one Merely
desirable addition should present their gold. Instead of him, therefore, to confess their love
in him and well incorporated as they would have done the most, she invented on the spot a new
list to to test his devotion, and adopted a serious, almost sad expression, adding she trusted him,
as she was already engaged to a young man in her home, which they on the warmest love. You
have to tell him several times already do, since they are him, the merchant, have very dear
friends, how he can see clearly from their behavior, and they trust him like a brother. But
the inept jokes that come up in society were, it would have a confidential conversation more
difficult, since he is but even with them fine brave and noble heart surprise and the same
set before her, she could him thank for his tendency not better, than by him as open to entrust.
 I suppose we looked so woe-begone and vagabondish in our rags and tatters, that the hearts
of these people melted towards us. Nevertheless it was plain to see that we were prisoners,
and that the monk had no notion of putting us in the way of getting a ship.

Now, as we stood there in the Placa, closely guarded by the Indians, the monk having disappeared
for the moment, who should come up to us but that polite gentleman, Captain Manuel Nunez, arrayed
in very brave fashion and smiling his cruel smile as usual. He pushed his way through the throng,
folded his arms, and stood smiling upon us.

"So, Master Salkeld," he said, "you have fallen into the tiger's den after all. Certainly what
was born to be burned will never be drowned. I looked to see you again, Senor."

"We shall possibly meet yet once again," said I. "And it may be where you and I are on level
terms, Captain Nunez. If that time should ever come, ask God to have mercy upon you, for rest
assured that I shall have none."

"Brave words, Senor, brave words! I wish it were possible that you might have the chance to
make them good. But that I am afraid you never will have. You are safely caged."

Then he began to abuse us to the people, bidding them look upon us for English dogs, Lutherans,
enemies of God, sweepings of the English sink of iniquity, for whom neither rack, thumb-screw,
nor stake was sufficient reward. Me he denounced to the people as a runaway criminal, describing
me in such terms as made my blood boil within me, and my hands itch to take him by the neck
and crush the life out of his wicked heart.

"You are a liar and a knave," said I and then for the moment forgetting my dignity as an English
gentleman I spat full in his face. Bethink you--my hands were tied behind me, and not free
to use. Otherwise I had not done it.

Now at this insult his face turned deathly white and then flushed a bright red, and there came
into his eyes a gleam which meant murder, and plucking forth his rapier he would certainly
have slain me there and then, had not the monk returned at that instant and prevented his fury
from wreaking itself upon me. At this interference he grew still more furious, and well-nigh
foamed at the mouth, swearing by all the saints in his calendar that he would slay me where
I stood. But at a word from the monk he smiled a grim, meaning smile, and thrusting back his
rapier into its sheath turned away from us with a face full of hate and malignity.

We were now taken away to a hospital, where we found other Englishmen--some sailors that had
been captured by the Spaniards at sea, and others merchants who had been taken while prosecuting
their trade in various ports in that part of the world. Some of these men had been in captivity
for many months, and they explained to us that they were being kept for a new sitting of the
Inquisition, at which, they said, we should all be examined and possibly tortured, with a view
to extracting from us confessions that would doom us to the fire. So under this prospect we
sat down to wait, and for several weeks remained in strict captivity, having enough to eat,
but being terribly cast down by the knowledge of what awaited us.

It appeared from such information as we could obtain that the Inquisitors were at that time
absent from the city, conducting examinations in another part of the country, and that when
they returned our cases would be gone into. There had been no Auto-de-fe, or public burning
of heretics for a year or two, and it seemed only too probable from what we now heard that
one was meditated for the coming Good Friday. Positive information on this point, however,
we could not then get; therefore we remained in our captivity, alternately hopeful and despondent,
praying God either to release us from our desperate situation or to give us strength to endure
whatever might be in store for us.

About the beginning of Lent, in the year 1579, the Inquisitors returned to the City of Mexico,
and it immediately began to be whispered amongst us that the examinations were shortly to begin.
We soon found that this was the truth, and the first intimation of it came to us in highly
unpleasant form. On Ash Wednesday we were removed from the hospital in which we had been confined
until then, and were taken through the city to certain cells or dungeons, in which we were
separately placed, so that from that time forward we saw nothing of each other, and thus had
no companion to turn to for sympathy when our need was sorest. But as God would have it, it
befell to Pharaoh Nanjulian and to me, that as we were being led across the market-square by
our guards, there came up to us the old gentleman whom we had saved from highwaymen on the
road to Oaxaca. He seemed vastly surprised to find us in that unhappy condition, and insisted
with some slight show of authority on our guards allowing him to speak with us.

"Surely," said he, "ye are the two brave men who preserved me and my daughter from those cut-throat
villains as we traveled to Oaxaca. How came ye in this company?"

"Sir," said Pharaoh, "that is what we do not know ourselves. We are two inoffensive Englishmen,
brought into this country against our wills, and wishing or intending no harm to any man, but
only anxious to find a ship that will carry us back to our own land. Here we are treated like
malefactors and criminals, and yet we have broken no law that we know of, nor are we brought
before any judge to hear what our jailer hath against us. If you indeed are grateful for what
we did for you help us to our liberty."

"I am grateful, friend," answered the old man, "and will do what I can for you. But tell me
your story."

So we told him all that had happened to us from the time of our leaving England, and mentioning
more particularly the treacheries practiced upon us by Captain Nunez and Frey Bartolomeo, at
the mention of whose names he shook his head.

"I am sorry indeed for you," said he when we made an end, "and the more so because ye are in
a very grievous plight. But now, keep up your hearts, for I have some influence with the Chief
Inquisitor, and it shall be exerted on your behalf. 'Tis truly a pity that ye are Englishmen,
but I hope ye are Christians."

"Christians we are," said Pharaoh, "and will say our Paternoster and Credo with any man."

"'Tis well, and therefore keep up your hearts, I say. I will see to this matter at once."

This meeting and the cheerful words spoken to us by the old man did somewhat revive our hopes,
more especially when we heard from our guards that he was a person of some distinction in that
city. So we parted, Pharaoh and I, and were prisoned in solitary dungeons.

For the next three or four weeks I saw no man save my jailers, who fed me chiefly on bread
and water, or on maize, crushed and boiled, which food did speedily bring me to a low and miserable
condition. Indeed, what the noisomeness of my cell and the loneliness of my state failed to
do the bad food speedily accomplished, so that within a month of my imprisonment I became a
weak and nerveless creature, and was ready to weep at a rough word.

About three weeks before Easter I was taken before the Inquisitors and put to the question.
Now, I had expected and dreaded this ordeal, and was not in over good a state to face it when
at last it came upon me. Nevertheless I made shift to summon my courage so that I might show
a bold front to my oppressors.

The Inquisitors sat in a small apartment hung round with black and lighted by torches, and
there was that in their appearance which was calculated to strike terror into the stoutest
heart. Behind a table, set upon a dais, sat the Chief Inquisitor, with his assistant on one
side of him and his secretary on the other. They were all robed in black, and their thin, ascetic
faces looking out from the dark recesses of their cowls, had in them neither mercy nor pity,
nor indeed aught but merciless resolution. There were other robed and cowled figures in the
room, but I noticed none of them particularly save the monk Bartolomeo, who stood there ready
to make accusation against me.

There was an interpreter in the apartment, a half-breed named Robert Sweeting, whose name I
desire to put on record, because he did me a kindness at the risk of his own life. To this
man the Inquisitors addressed their questions, and through him I answered them to the best
of my ability.

They set out by asking me the full particulars of my presence in Mexico, which questions I
replied to with very great delight, as they afforded me an opportunity of having my say as
to Captain Manuel Nunez and his fellow-villain Frey Bartolomeo, whom I did not spare, though
he stood by and heard me with an unmoved countenance. Indeed, I spake so plainly concerning
him that the Chief Inquisitor stopped me.

"It is not seemly," said he, "to speak in disrespectful terms of men vowed to sacred offices."

To this I answered that I had been brought up from my birth to treat my pastors and teachers
with respect and reverence, but that I could feel none for a man who had abused his sacred
office by deceiving unfortunate men.

Then they began to examine me as to my faith, and commanded me to say the Paternoster, Ave
Maria, and the Creed in Latin, which, rubbing up such Latin as I remembered from Mr. Timotheus
Herrick's instructions, I made difficult shift to do, informing them at the same time that
I could say all these things much more readily in English. And this part of my examination
being over, and my judges seeming satisfied, I began to breathe more freely, hoping that all
might end well.

But now they began to examine me on more particular and nicer points, and it was plain to me
that if I did but make a slip they would visit it upon my body. For they demanded first, whether
I believed or not that any bread or wine remained in the paten or in the chalice after the
consecration, and second, whether or not the bread and the wine were not actually the very
body and blood of our Lord. To have answered "No" to these questions would have insured my
death, therefore I cudgeled my brains for a fitting reply to them, well knowing what depended
upon it. And bethinking me of the articles and teachings of my own church, I made answer that
I was no scholar or theologian, but a simple country gentleman that had left subtle points
to priests and schoolmen, and had always held what they taught me, namely, that our blessed
Lord is indeed verily and truly present in the sacrament of His body and blood. This answer
seemed to satisfy them, but presently they asked me if I did not follow the teachings of Doctor
Martin Luther. I cheerfully replied to that, that I knew naught about Doctor Luther, and had
never heard his name mentioned until I came into Mexico; which was plain truth, for we were
out of the world at Beechcot, and knew naught of controversies. Then they would have me to
tell them what I had been taught to believe in England, to which I answered that I had never
been taught any other doctrine than that to which I had already testified, and in which I did
firmly and truly believe as a good Christian man, hoping for salvation in the Christian faith.

"We must have a more satisfactory answer than that," said the Chief Inquisitor, "otherwise
we must try what a sterner method will do with you."

"Sir," said I, "other answer I cannot give you, for I have already told you the truth. As for
my sins against God I heartily ask His forgiveness, and also yours if I have offended your
laws in any way; but I beseech you to remember that I came into your country against my own
will, and have never done aught against its laws or against you wittingly. Therefore, I beseech
you to have Christian mercy upon my defenseless condition."

But they had none, and that night I was put upon the rack, and cruelly tortured by Frey Bartolomeo
and his fellows, in the hope that I should confess something against myself. However, God giving
me strength, I said naught, and was preserved through that awful torment, the memory of which
is strong in my mind even after all these years.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE AUTO-DA-FE.

About the beginning of Holy Week the Inquisitors caused to be erected a great scaffold against
the large church in the main square, and from it they proclaimed, with much beating of drums
and blaring of trumpets, that whoever should come there upon Good Friday should have made known
to them the most just judgments of the Holy Inquisition upon the English heretics, Lutherans,
and should, moreover, see the same put into immediate execution. And so now we were face to
face with whatever final cruelty these devils in human shape might devise upon us, who were
helpless and defenseless in their hands.

There was little rest for any of us on the night preceding the judgments, for there came to
each of us officers and Familiars of the Inquisition, tormenting us with gibes and sneers,
and bringing us the San-benitos in which we were to appear in the great square next morning.
It was already turning gray in the east when two of these men entered my dungeon, where I lay
still stiff and bruised because of the racking which I had undergone a few days before. They
woke me rudely and without consideration, caring naught for the woes I had already suffered
or the sorrow I was that day to undergo.

"Wake, English dog, Lutheran, enemy of God!" cried one. "Wake and robe thyself to meet thy
master the devil. Truly the saints will rejoice to see the sight provided for them this day."

Then they hustled me from my straw pallet and bade me dress in the San-benito, which was a
garment of yellow cotton having divers devices painted upon it. And this done they took me
out into the courtyard of the prison, and there for the first time for some weeks I met Pharaoh
Nanjulian. It was easy to see, even in the uncertain light of the early morning, that he had
undergone the same torments which they had applied to me. His face was pinched and thin with
suffering, and his great frame seemed to have been crushed and bruised until it had shrunk
in height and girth. Yet he bore himself with composure and bravery, and I felt at once that,
however the rest of us behaved, he at least would not disgrace the name of England.

"Heart up, master!" quoth he, as soon as we came within speaking distance of each other. "Heart
up! Let us show ourselves brave men this day. I do not think they can torment us more than
they have already done. And what if they kill us? We must all die."

"Did they torture you badly, Pharaoh?" I asked, admiring his fortitude.

He shook his head and smiled grimly.

"So badly, master, that it seemed as if every bone in my body was broken and every sinew cracked.
But a man may undergo a deal of suffering and yet live. So let us quit us like men and be strong.
For truly, though we be in the hands of these devils at present, God is near us, and will maybe
be nearer ere the day is done."

Then our custodians separated us again, and for a couple of hours they exercised us in the
prison yard, showing us in what order we should proceed to the scaffold, and admonishing us
as to our behavior when we had come there. And after that was over, it being broad daylight,
they gave us breakfast, which was a cup of wine with a piece of bread fried in honey, and so
we were ready for the ordeal.

There were some sixty to seventy prisoners in all, of all nationalities, a considerable number
being Englishmen, and all of us were dressed in those hideous San-benitos, which make the most
shameful garb that a man can wear. Being drawn up in single file, our guards fastened a halter
round the neck of each prisoner, and afterwards gave to each of us a green wax candle, which
we carried, unlighted, in the right hand. Two Spaniards, well armed, guarded each of us, and
so the procession being arranged, the great doors were thrown open and we were led forth into
the square.

The crowd in the square was so thick that the guards had much ado to free a passage through
it; but ere long we came to the scaffold, and were conducted upon it, seating ourselves on
long rows of chairs placed in full sight of the people. We had not long occupied this shameful
position when the Viceroy and his officers came upon the scaffold by another flight of steps,
closely followed by the Inquisitors, who took the chief places and made much show of their
authority. Then three hundred friars, wearing the garb of their various orders, black, white,
gray, and brown, were marshaled to their places, and all was ready for the judgments.

Now, we were so sorely exercised in our minds at that time because of the agony of sitting
there and wondering when our turn would come and what our fate would be, that I have utterly
forgotten many of the names and sentences of my unfortunate companions. Some still come back
to me, because their sentences were heavier than those which have escaped my memory.

The manner of judgment was after this fashion. The clerk to the Inquisitors calling out our
names in a loud voice, we were commanded to stand up in our places and hear the judgment of
the Holy Office upon us.

Thomas White, Cornelius Johnson, Peter Brown, Henry More, all Englishmen shipwrecked on those
inhospitable coasts or captured at sea, were condemned to three hundred lashes on horseback,
and to serve in the galleys for ten years.

William Collier, Thomas Ford, John Page, two hundred lashes and eight years in the galleys.

Stephen Brown and Nicholas Peterson, a Dutchman, one hundred lashes and six years in the galleys.

Then came some forty or fifty men whose names I have forgotten, who were condemned to a lesser
number of lashes and less servitude in the galleys, and after them some four or five who were
adjudged to serve in monasteries for various terms of years, wearing their San-benitos all
the time.

And then, after two or three hours of weary waiting, for they did everything with exceeding
tediousness and much ceremony, they called upon Pharaoh Nanjulian and myself, and we stood
up together to receive sentence. And then we suddenly knew that God had not deserted us, for
the sentence was a lighter one than any that we had heard passed. We were to serve two years
in the galleys, submitting ourselves to the chaplain for admonition and instruction. So that
was over and we could breathe freely again.

Nevertheless the horrible work of that day was far from over, for it was hardly begun. The
torments, the murders, were yet to come.

William Moor, John Wood, and Hans Schewitzer, a German Lutheran, were brought up for sentence
and condemned, being pestilent and naughty heretics, to be burned to ashes.

They lost no time, these villainous Spaniards, in carrying out this sentence. In front of the
scaffold stood three stout iron posts, firmly sunk in the ground, with fagots already piled
about them, and to these the unfortunate men were speedily bound, amidst the silence of the
crowd and the cries of the monks and Familiars, who pressed upon their victims, bidding them
repent and recant ere they were lost forever. But to these murdering villains the three men
answered naught, and presently it was all over with them, and there was one more crime recorded
against Spain.

Then those of us who had been sentenced to so many lashes were led down from the scaffold and
placed upon horses, being stripped to the waist, and having by them, every man, an executioner
armed with a whip. Such of us as had escaped this sentence were arranged in pairs behind, with
our halters still round our necks and our guards on either side of us. Before the men who were
to be whipped marched two criers, crying "Behold these English dogs, Lutherans, enemies of
God," and at intervals came Familiars, such as Frey Bartolomeo, admonishing the executioners
to lay on and spare not. Then the procession started, and was conducted by the criers through
all the principal streets back to the great square, and at every few steps the executioners
laid on with their whips, fetching blood at every stroke, so that to any man having aught of
mercy and compassion within him the spectacle was horrible and nauseating, though to the Familiars
and Inquisitors it seemed delightful enough.

Now, as we returned to the great square, this bloody work being over, the throng pressed upon
us so closely that for some few moments we were unable to move, and while we stood there waiting
for what would happen next, there came to our side Captain Manuel Nunez, his evil eyes mocking
and sneering at us.

"So, Master Salkeld," said he, "it would seem that you have not altogether escaped. Our Holy
Office is merciful, Master Salkeld, yea, sadly too merciful for my liking. But there are those
of us, who know not any mercy for Englishmen and heretics, as you shall find ere long, both
of you."

With that he vanished in the crowd, and presently Pharaoh and I were led back to prison, wondering
what his last words meant.

CHAPTER XIV.

ON BOARD THE GALLEY.

Being led back to the prison, Pharaoh and I found to our unspeakable joy and astonishment that
we were to be placed in one cell and not separated as heretofore. This consideration on the
part of our jailers was exceedingly pleasant to us, because it afforded us the opportunity
of conversing one with the other. Therefore, in spite of our bruises and strains, caused by
the rack and not yet forgotten, and of the sad sights which we had that day seen, we made an
effort to pluck up our spirits, and to be cheerful and even hopeful.

We were further assisted in this laudable desire by a visit from the old gentleman whom we
had rescued from highwaymen on the road to Oaxaca. About seven o'clock that evening he was
admitted to our cell, and left alone with us. This latter fact at once assured us that our
friend was a man of rank and position, otherwise he would not have been permitted to see and
speak with us, save in the presence of witnesses.

"I trust all is well with you, friends," said he, as he entered our presence, and set down
a basket which the jailer had carried to the door. "I come to see you at a sad time, doubtless,
but 'tis indeed with feelings of friendship."

"We have so few friends in this country, Senor," answered Pharaoh, "that we are glad to see
any of them. Nay, indeed, so far as we know, your honor is the only friend we have. I was afraid me
from the smallest possible event, like a good Christian before his death, he timidly afraid,
although he is entering into such vacancy by the eternal salvation certain. More colorful it
was in my brain and the events and exciting stories, all again most beautiful and indubitable
go, crowded and flourished through each other there. I neglected my business and was good for
nothing. The worst I felt when I had to spend hours playing with the old chess, where I was
then forced to my attention to tie the game, and the only leisure for granted my serious thoughts of
love my short time when a game was over and the characters were set up again. I let me therefore
as soon as possible, without making it too noticed faint and was me so long to the positioning
of the king and queen, the bishop, knight and peasant and moved on as long as the towers up and
down, that the governor believed that I was childish become'll flirt with the figures for my amusement.

"At
last my whole life threatened to dissolve in idle dream happiness, and I was in danger of becoming
a madman.

I also was in spite of all these golden Luftschloesser think other like timidly and sad, because
before the jury is that such rampant Dreams opposite niederdrueckt always standing back reality and the
bodily presence cool slightly and defensive end reserves. It is effectively the protective Dornenruestung,
bringing the beautiful surrounds of the Rose body image. The friendly and-tune Lydia was the more
uncertain and doubtful, I was because I took on myself, how difficult is it a possible to show a real
love, but do not in their to name names. Only if she seemed severely, sad and suffering, I drew
another half due to a reasonable hope, but it bothered me then much lower and I did not deserve
that they should suffer just a bad minutes in my name I like the head would have to under
their feet. Then I was annoyed again that them to be good things, demanded that I should look
somewhat like a love-silly Schneider, I was not such but in my own way and I already thought
of moving to be their pleasure. In short, I went to meet an entirely confusion was not longer able
to perform a single business properly, and was in danger as a soldier to come backwards or
even adopt, if I hang not as a ministering stopgap, the need nothing else to me at the house of
the Governor wanted to hang.

"So when the British came in serious hostilities with Indian peoples and a campaign was opened, which
later turned out pretty bloody for them, I decided briefly and came back to my company as
a good combatant, the Governor my farewell Taking. The same did not know about, but blustered,
begged and cajoled me that I want to stay, like all those people
who think everything is consistent with his Body and Life, with its
ups and downs only to their disposal as to help them pass the time
and to serve as a convenience.

Lydia opted to stay during the three or four days, during which the deduction from my speech
was hardly seen. But it happened, but she saw me not on or took a quick look of anger on me, it
seemed, but only the eye seemed angry, her gait and other movements were so quiet, elegant
and se holding that this beautiful anger my heart broke. I also heard that it in the morning very
late to light would come and that one was broken head about it, for it suggested that they do
not sleep at night, and when I by chance on the last day behind her window looked, I thought
I observed that they had very tearful eyes, and she moved quickly back when I vorueberging. Nevertheless
Minder I walked my stiff Sergeant Gang quietly away and did everything, looking neither left
nor right. So I went in the evening with a guy once again through the plantations to give it
the same care to some extent and to show him as best I could, to a provisional zuzustutzen
Gaertner, until a Show fit for a subject would. We were just in a slim Rosenwaeldchen, the I
had drawn, and the trees stood out just in the height of the face and were so dense that, if you
went around it, the roses a stripped from the nose, very well behaved and easily was and what
the governor had a good laugh, as he now did not need to bend over, to smell the roses. When
I gave my instructions to the boy, came by Lydia and sent him away with any orders, and by the same willing
to go along, seemed she hesitated but a short time, some roses breaking, until the servant was
gone. I tugged also for a while at a branch around and as I turned to go, saw I know that her
tears fell from his eyes. I struggled to dominate me, but I did, as if I had seen nothing, and
hurried away. But once I had gone ten steps, as I heard and felt, as soon running, now pausing,
came from behind me, and such a whole range widely. I thought this is no longer turned around suddenly
and said, to her, who was barely three paces from me, 'Why go after me, Miss? "

"She stood still as frightened by a snake, and was lowered gaze to the ground, gluehendrot in
the face, then she was pale and white and trembling all over, while she opened her big blue eyes
to me and not brought forth a word. Finally said them with one voice, which rose in rank with
pride like endured humiliation, 'I think I can walk around in my possession, where I will! "

"'Of
course!" I replied sheepishly and continued on my way. She was now at my side and walked along
beside me. But I did in my intense excitement with so long and rapid Steps that despite her
strong movements could follow me with difficulty, and yet they did it. I saw her several times
at large from the side and saw that her eyes again full of water were, however, addressed the
same as full of grief and humiliation on the ground were. I am also
burning hot boiling in the face and my eyes were also wet.

The Matter was now in such a way on the top that I either stupidity or a lack of conscience
was about to commit to what I was neither the one nor the other is inclined to do. But I thought,
as I herschritt Thus not only her, poor in my mind: If this woman loves you and you ever get
with honor in her hand, you shall serve until their in death, and if they would be the Devil
himself!

"As we reached a place, where a dozen or two were orange trees and the Air with fragrance achieved,
while a sweet breath of fresh air through the neat noble tribes formed was blowing. I think
these seductive touch and smell even now feel, when I think, probably, he held a similar effect
on the creature, the walked beside me that his wondrous passion, a love which was to himself,
Sun felt and represented the last extremity, as if it was a real love for a man; as they settled
down on a bench under the orange and lowered the key to beautiful the hands, the golden hair fell about
it swelled and rich tears through her fingers.

"I stood still with her and said in a faltering voice: 'What do you want what you is Fraeulein
Lydia? "

"'What do you want!" she said, 'it is ever heard, torture and a nice lady so fine to abuse and!
For what barbarous country you come from? What do you wear a for Piece of wood in the chest? "

"'What torment I mistreat it?" I said undecided, and enter, for although she could have a good
sense, but seemed to me that language is not the right to be.

"'You are a rude and arrogant man! she said without looking up.

"Well I could not contain myself and said, 'You would not say this,
my Miss, if you knew how little rough and spirited to me in my heart
you disposed towards me!

And it's just my great politeness and humility, which - '

"She looked up as I fell silent again, and the face with a painful,
imploring Smile brightened, she said hastily: "Well?"

Where they threw me a look that I now brought to the last bit of reflection. I, who would have
never thought possible, even the most beloved woman to fall at the
feet, as I for such a folly and affectation looked, I did not now
how I came to lie before her, and suddenly my head entirely to and
contrite in the hem of her dress to hide, I with hot Tears moistened.

But she pushed me back immediately and told me get up, but I did
this to her smile was still increased and embellished now, and I cried:
'Yes - I will only tell you,' and so on, and told her my whole story
with an eloquence that I hardly ever have expected.

She listened eagerly, while I it concealed nothing from the beginning to this hour, and especially
her also overflowing Heart designed the image that lived by it in my soul and as I have for
half a Years or longer so diligently and faithfully prepared and
completed.

She laughed, looking down the right and full satisfaction of listening, the supportive hand to the
chin, and looking more like a Blessed child the same, the one where a desired toy, as she listened
and heard not as one of its merits and charms of one of their words and not lost with me was. Then
she handed out his hand and said politely, blushing, but with more content Security: 'Thank you very
much, my friend, for your warm affection! Do you think It pains me that you were concerned for
my sake so long and taken, but you are a real man and I have to respect them, because you are
capable of such a beautiful and deep affection are! "

"This speech was quiet but like a piece of ice in my blood hot, but I thought immediately, her
to indulge it well and from the heart when they make are now mounted and decorative Dame wanted,
and I give in everything they do and also what tone they strike also would.

"But I replied sadly: 'Who is talking to me, beautiful, beautiful Lydia What! all I am suffering
or not suffering, has suffered or will suffer even more to say, compared to only one term displeasure
or labored minute you suffer? How can I worthlessness and untoward or apprentice will replace
the ever pay? "

"'Well,' she said, looking down always before him, and still smiling, but already in a slightly
altered way, "Now confess I must, however, that I am your rugged and awkward Behave very angry
and has even tortured, for I was in no such thing used to, but I everywhere I went, courtesy and
devotion spread around.

Their apparent gross insensibility has annoyed me quite disgraceful, I tell you, and so much more
than my father and I talked a lot about you. So much better it is for me to see now, that you but
also have a bit of soul, and especially that I on my own values ​​are not longer need to doubt,
for what hurts me the most profound doubts about me was myself, on
my personal being, began to stir within me.

By the way, best friend feel, I have no inclination to you, any more than anyone else, and
I hope that you are with all be devotion and courtesy that you just like, add an authentic, to the
inevitable without me to be angry! "

"If they believed that after this ingenuous opening to utter helplessness and defenseless languish
in front of her will, they were wrong. Before the supposedly good and loving wife had trembled my heart,
before the wild animals of this dangerous false Selfishness I was shaking so much more than I do
from tigers and snakes lived was. On the contrary, rather than be confused and desperate and do
not give up the illusion to do otherwise as it probably happens in similar performances, I was
suddenly so cold and prudent, as only a man is his sunning, the offended and insulted on the
shameful been, or like a hunter, it may be the sudden, instead of a noble shy roe deer a wild
pig looks on. A strangely mixed, eerie feeling of coldness, of course, If I had to watch the beauty
of all this, which shone before me. But this is the eerie mystery of beauty.

"However, I am not very tanned by the sun have been, I would now still have looked as white as
the Orangenblueten about me when I told her, after a pause said.

'And so to make your noble faith in your personality, it was you possible to use all the characters
of the pure and deep love and self-renunciation? To this purpose, they went after me, like
an innocent child who seeks his mother talked Me constantly want to hear, you were pale and suffering,
you shed tears and were so golden and unreserved joy when I spoke with you just a word? "

"'If
it looked like what I did," she said, still self-satisfied,' it is be the case. It probably a
little evil, vain are man! that you are no longer the subject a so very humble and boundless
devotion are female? " 'That poor girl I do not The highly bleating little lamb am, for you kept me
in your jolly? "

"'I was not happy, young lady!" I replied. "However, if the gods, when Christ even an infinite
love for the people indulged in many cases, and if the human race
have always found her greatest happiness is to love without reservation
that the gods worth his and hers to pursue, why should I be ashamed
to love me fancied similar to have?

No, Miss Lydia! I count it an honor even to me that I am of you left, I tend to the simple love and
kindness, thought a naive mind, catch in such clear and decisive character, spoiled as I legally
nothing more than a simple-minded Comedy beyond furious. Because simple is the story! What guarantee
do you have because now the total of your belief in yourself, because you used such means to
only the poorest to win the war of all poor people, you, the beautiful and elegant English lady?
"

"'What is the warranty?" said Lydia, which was now gradually pale and embarrassed, "Oh! your
amorous inclination to the explanation I'm forced to finally! They are me do not deny that you were
carried away and told me just now, as I have from always been like? Why you did that in your
rudeness not notice a little bit, so as the simplest and most unassuming
people feel is pending, and if he is a shepherd would be, so we were
the whole Comedy, as you call it, may have been spared and I would
have contented myself!

"

"'Would you let me in my sleep, my pretty,' I replied, 'you would have won more. Because you
seem to forget that this pleasure is now necessary into its opposite must own to my pain! "

"'Does
not help you,' she said, 'I know again that I probably like them, and in Their blood live!
I angehoert your confession and I am assured of my conquest. Everything else is indifferent, so
it goes, sir Pankrazius, and so are those punishment that go by in the realm of beauty queen! " 'That
is to say,' I said, 'it this seems more like a kingdom to the same band of gypsies. How you
can a feather on the Hat stuck, you have stolen, like a common shoplifter? against the will of the
owner? "

"She replied: 'In this field, sir owner who served the theft of the thief to fame, and your
anger only proves again how good I've met you! "

"We quarreled still a good half hour around in the bitter sweet orange groves, but hard words, and
I tried in vain to make her understand how these abgestohlene and surreptitious love story is not
quite the value for they could, they their attributed.

I led this evidence not only of philistine hurt and stupidity but also some sparks from the
feeling of their injustice and immorality of their Action to awaken her. But in vain! She
did not realize that a right Gemuetsverfassung flare up only in the
full and unreserved love, if they have reason to hope to have believed,
and therefore to give them reason not to feel anything, ever a rough
and immoral fraud remains, and the more unscrupulous, more easily
than the deceived, honest and innocent kind.

She always came back to the fact my declaration of love, and that they threw that seemed otherwise
to have such a healthy opinion, the most ridiculous, most petty and indecent speeches and
arguments with each other and announced a true child head. During the whole year of our being together,
I had not spoken much with her, as in this recent contentious hour, and now I saw, O just God!
that a woman was of a large-scale industry, with the manners, movements and characteristics
of a truly rare and noble woman, and for all that with the brain
- an ordinary soubrette, I've seen them redraw the dozens on the vaudeville
theaters of Paris!

While this contention but I swallowed them while still continuing with the eyes and incomprehensible
groundless, so personally translucent beauty tormented my heart in
a race with the word change, we executed.

When she said all but meaningless and outrageous things, I cried, bursting into bitter tears: 'Oh,
Miss! You're the biggest ass I have ever seen have! "

"She violently shook the weight of their hair and pale and looked at me amazed, with Raging inclined
to train their otherwise beautiful mouth hovered. It was probably a scornful his smile, but
was a sign strangely embarrassed.

"'Yes,' I said, grating my tears with her fists, 'only we men can otherwise his ass, this is
our prerogative, and if I call you so, so it is a kind of Distinction and honor for you. Would you
be just a bit ordinary and less, so I would just blame a poor goose! "

"With these words, I finally turned away from her and went, look no further added to her but
with the feelings that I what I ever summoned in my life of pure happiness might be, now forever
behind me, and that it would be over now with my faithful Piety in such matters.

"You now have your most wretched of creatures Schmoll," I said to myself, would have you said from
the beginning sometimes only half as long friendly with her, it would have you can not remain
hidden, what kind of person she is, and you would not have you so grossly deceived! Driving toward
deliquescence and then, you air formations nice!

"As I am now torn by the governor adopted the idea, I saw the same enjoyable and mischievously mocking,
winking with his eyes.

I noticed that he my affair did well at all, had observed the same and always a kind of schadenfrohem
fun felt about it. Since he was a very honest and respectable man otherwise, was able to be nothing
more than the simple-minded delight of cruel Philistines Bratenspaessen
and bad.

In the previous century, great men amused because its fools, dwarves and other subordinates
to make drunk and then to pour water or mistreat them physically. Nowadays this is no longer
popular among the educated; however, keeps it by preference order to provoke all sorts of
subtle confusion and the less those Philistine souls themselves capable
of a strong and profound passion are, the more they feel the need,
like heavy-handed with more or less resources to awaken those who
are to getting into such heartless established mousetraps.

Now, if the Governor for his part, not disdain, his own daughter as fried Bacon used so there was
nothing here to say more, and I accepted, although still a Baggage cart drove off good, headstrong
my heavy pack and a musket on his back and a retarded troops carried out into the night after the regiment,
which already marched in the morning was.

"I saw myself from a trying and hot march now moved into a new world, as The campaign was opened and
the troops of the East India Company with the wild Bergstaemmen struggled
at the extreme limit of the Indo-British Empire.

Some of our companies Regiment were pushed away during and one day but mine was so murderous
surrounded, that we are surrounded by a tangle of banditenaehnlichen cavalry, elephants and
strange cars were painted and gilded, Hindustan quote still nice Sham princes sat in the wild
chiefs carried as dolls. All our Officers were in those days and the company melted away to
a third. Since I kept me well and provided some services, I gained the patent of the first
lieutenant the company and at the end of the campaign I was their captain.

"As such, I was with about a hundred and fifty men for two years a small border area occupied,
which captured to complete our area have been, and during this time the supreme ruler in this
heathen wilderness. I was so lonely now than I ever my life have been suspicious of all the
world and quite strict in my ministry, Transport, but are just evil or unjust. My main activity
was to Christian Police to introduce and to give our people strong religious protection, so they could
work safely. But mostly I had the burning of Indian women prevent, when their husbands died, and
since the people had a formal addiction, our English ban over each other and connect to roast
alive in honor of the husband's fidelity we always had to be to thwart the like on the legs. They
were then well sullen and discontented, as if this country disturbs the police an illicit pleasure.
 From the tops the sharp-shooters were pouring showers of
arrows into the English ship, but the guns had ceased, and the gunners lay dead beside them.

We dashed on deck with a great cry, and for an instant the whole body of combatants turned
and looked at us. A strange and awful sight we must needs have presented at that moment. There
was scarcely a rag upon us, our hair was long and unkempt, our shoulders were torn and bleeding
from the effects of the lashes lately laid on them, and our entire aspect must have resembled
that of wild beasts rather than of men. I saw Nunez turn paler as he caught sight of us, and
heard the English storm of execration burst forth over the noise and confusion of the fight.
Then we fell upon the Spaniards from behind, and after that all was red, and I seemed to do
naught but strike and strike again, unconscious of pain or wounds or anything but a fierce
desire to be avenged on the villains who had wrought such cruelty upon me.

Howbeit, after a time I felt myself dragged by a friendly hand out of the thick of the fight
and led across the bulwarks to the English ship, where I was presently conducted on to the
poop, into the presence of a man whom I at once knew to be some great captain. He was of middle
height, with a high forehead, crisp brown hair, very steady gray eyes, and a hard, fierce mouth,
slightly covered by a beard and moustache. He wore a loose, dark, seaman's shirt, belted at
the waist, and about his neck was a plaited cord, having attached to it a ring, with which
his fingers played as he spoke to me. On his head was a scarlet cap with a gold band, even
as the man in the galleon had said.

Such was my first glimpse of the great captain, Francis Drake, then thirty years of age, and
making his first voyage round the world. I stood staring at him for a moment, and he at me,
and I know not which was most interested in the other.

"Who art thou, friend?" he inquired, presently.

"An English gentleman, sir, kidnaped by the Spaniards and carried to Mexico, where I have undergone
torments at the hands of the Inquisitors. I was a galley slave on board yonder vessel."

"How many Englishmen are there with you?"

"At least forty."

"Does the ship carry treasure?"

"Yes, sir," I answered; "and she also carries two of the most cruel wretches that ever walked
the earth."

"Who are they, friend?"

"Manuel Nunez, the captain, and Bartolomeo, the monk. In God's name, sir, do justice upon them."

He turned and gave some orders to an officer who stood by. Then he gave his attention to the
Spanish ship again, so I caught up my weapon and rushed back over the side, eager to find Pharaoh
Nanjulian.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE FATE OF NUNEZ AND FREY BARTOLOMEO.

By that time the fight was well-nigh over. During its progress another English ship had sailed
up on the other side of the Spaniard, and her men were now swarming over the side, eager to
have some share in the struggle. Thus it came about that in a few moments, the Spaniards were
completely worsted, and were forced to lay down their arms and beg for mercy.

I found Pharaoh Nanjulian busily occupied in seeing to the removal of several men, who were
too weak to move of their own accord, from the benches where we had lately been chained. These
were being carried to the English ships, where they were received with such indignation as
is felt by honest men who abhor cruelty. So strong, indeed, were the feelings aroused amongst
the English sailors at the sight of our bleeding backs, that their officers had much ado to
prevent them from slaying the Spaniards without mercy.

"Where is the monk, Pharaoh?" I said. "He must not escape. Have you seen aught of him during
the fight?"

But Pharaoh had seen naught. He had been fighting hard himself, and that being over he had
turned his attention to such of our unfortunate companions as were unable to help themselves.

"He cannot be far away, master," said he. "The rat will have found some hole, no doubt."

At that moment one of Drake's officers came pressing on board, asking for the friar.

"Bring him aboard the Golden Hinde unharmed," said he, "and the Spanish captain too. 'Tis Captain
Drake's special order. Harm neither of them, but have them aboard."

But neither Nunez nor Frey Bartolomeo were to be seen. Their men, such as survived--and they
were but few,--stood bound on deck, glaring sullenly at their captors, but neither monk nor
captain were at hand.

"Try the cabin," said one, and we made our way to the cabin under the poop, where Nunez was
used to sit. But the door was fast, and we had to break it down. As the first man rushed in
he fell back dead, with a sword-thrust through his heart from Nunez, while the second dropped
with a dagger-wound in his throat. But ere he could strike again Pharaoh Nanjulian had seized
him by the neck, and Captain Manuel Nunez was dragged into the light, dispossessed of his weapons
and bound securely. I stood and looked at him, and suddenly the fierce scowl of hate and rage
cleared away from his features, and the old mocking, cold smile began to play about the corners
of his eyes and mouth again.

"The fortunes of war, Master Salkeld," said he. "Yesterday you were down and I was up. To-day
you are up and I am down. 'Tis fate."

But I had no time to talk with him then, for I was anxious to find Frey Bartolomeo. Therefore
Pharaoh and I left Nunez with the officer and began searching the ship high and low. Because
on first coming aboard her we had been straightway conducted to the oars we knew next to nothing
of the Santa Filomena, and were accordingly some time in getting our bearings. Nevertheless
we could find no trace of the monk, who seemed to have vanished into thin air, or to have gone
overboard during the fight. He was not to be found either in cockpit or cabin, forecastle or
lazaretto, and at last we stared blankly in each other's faces and wondered what had become of him.

"There is one place we have not yet tried," said Pharaoh, "and that is the powder magazine.
Maybe he has retreated there."

We fetched a Spaniard from the upper deck and obliged him to conduct us to the magazine, and
there, sure enough, was Frey Bartolomeo, calm and impassive as ever. He had stove in the head
of one barrel of gunpowder, and now stood over the powder holding a lighted candle in his hand.
As we burst in the door and confronted him, he raised his pale face and regarded us with calmness
and scorn.

"Lay but a finger on me, ye Lutheran dogs," he said, "and I will drop this light into the powder
and send your souls to perdition!"

The men with us started back, dismayed and affrighted by his grim looks and determined words.
But Pharaoh Nanjulian laughed.

"Your own soul will go with ours, friar," said he.

Frey Bartolomeo shot a fierce glance at him from under his cowl.

"Fool!" he said. "Thinkest thou that I value life? What hinders me from destroying every one
of you and myself as well?"

"This!" said Pharaoh, suddenly knocking the candle out of his hand. It flew across the powder,
and striking a bulkhead opposite, went out harmlessly. So we seized Frey Bartolomeo, who now
bitterly reproached himself for not having blown up the ship before we reached him, and conducted
him to the upper deck, from whence he and Captain Nunez were presently conveyed to the Golden
Hinde, where they were safely stowed in irons.

And now, the fight being over, Drake and his men made haste to see what treasure the galleon
contained. In this quest, however, those of us who had been rescued from the oars took no part,
for now that the excitement was dying away our feverish strength went with it, so that we presently
began to exhibit signs of terrible distress and exhaustion, and many of us swooned away. Here,
however, our rescuers came to our further relief, and the ship's doctor was soon busily engaged
in seeing to us, dressing our wounds, giving us oils and unguents for our bloody stripes, and
ordering wine and food for all of us. So we were much refreshed; but none of these things,
comforting as they were, seemed so good to us as the words of kindness, which we heard with
wonder and astonishment, our ears having become accustomed to naught but threatenings and revilings.

While we were occupied in this pleasant fashion, Drake's men transferred a vast amount of treasure
from the Santa Filomena to the Golden Hinde. The discovery of all this treasure put our newly-found
friends in high good-humor, such ventures not having come in their way since they had left
the coast of Panama some months previous.

When all this treasure had been transferred to Drake's vessel, the Golden Hinde, the admiral
sent for the Englishmen who had been rescued from the Santa Filomena, and gave audience to
us on the quarterdeck. A sad and sorry multitude we looked, spite of the surgeon's care, as
we stood gazing at the great sea-captain who had rescued us, and waiting for him to speak.

"Friends and fellow-countrymen," said he, "every one of you shall go back with me to England.
We have strange tales to tell ourselves, and so, it is somewhat evident, have ye. Be content
now, I will charge myself with your welfare. Where is he that spoke with me this morning?"

So I stepped forward, and he looked upon me keenly.

"Thy name, friend?"

"Humphrey Salkeld, sir, nephew of Sir Thurstan Salkeld of Beechcot, in the East Riding of Yorkshire."

"Tell me thy tale, Master Salkeld."

So I gave him the history that I have here written down, and when it came to our doings in
Mexico I spoke for Pharaoh Nanjulian and for all who stood behind me. When I had got to the
period which we spent on board the Santa Filomena, my companions in distress bared their shoulders
and backs, and showed him the scars and the wounds and the stripes which we had received. Then
his face grew stern and set and the English sailors that stood by groaned in their wrath and
indignation.

"I am beholden to you, Master Salkeld," he said, when I had done. "Are there any of you that
would say more?"

But none wished to speak save one old white-haired man, who lifted up his hand and called God
to witness that all I had said was true, and that our torments under the Inquisition had been
such as could only be prompted by the devil.

Then Drake commanded his men to bring forward Manuel Nunez and Frey Bartolomeo, and presently
they stood before us, still bold and defiant, and Drake looked upon them.

"I am thinking, Senors," said he, "that if I had wrought such misdeeds upon your people as
you have upon mine, and you had caught me red-handed as I have caught you, there would have
been something in the way of torture for me before I came to my last end. But be not alarmed;
we Englishmen love justice, but we hate cruelty. And so we will be just to you, and we will
send you to your true place, where there is doubtless a reward prepared for you. Hang them
to the yard-arm of their own ship."

So they carried Nunez and the monk over the side, and presently their bodies swung from the
yard-arm of the Santa Filomena, and so they passed to their reward. And as for Nunez, he mocked
us till the end, but the monk said never a word, but stared fixedly before him, seeming to
care no more for death than he had for the sufferings that he had heaped upon his fellow-men.

After that Drake restored the Spaniards whom we had captured to their own ship, and bade them
go home, or back to Mexico, or wherever they pleased, and to tell their masters what Francis
Drake had done to them, and that he would do the same to every Spaniard who crossed his path.

CHAPTER XIX.

HOME WITH DRAKE.

During our awful captivity on board the galleon we had well-nigh lost all count or notion of
time. To us one day was pretty much like another. If we slept it was only to be awakened by
the overseer's whip. Day or night it was all one with us; never did our tormentors cease to
afflict us. We were reduced to the condition of animals, and had not even the comfort which
is allowed to them. Thus when the time of our rescue came, we had no notion of where we were
or what part of the year it was.

We now found that it was the middle of August, and that we were in the North Pacific Ocean
and bearing direct for the Moluccas, where Drake intended to trade before continuing his voyage
homeward by way of the Cape. We also learnt that this great captain was now taking his first
voyage round the world, and that he had had many great and remarkable adventures on the Spanish
Main and on the coast of Peru, and had enriched his vessels with the spoils of Spanish treasure-ships,
so that he now had with him a store of great and unusual value. For from some ships he had
taken bars of silver, and from others blocks of gold, together with rich ladings, merchandise
and silks, so rare and curious as to be worth great sums of money. And all this treasure had
been chiefly won from the Spaniards in fair fight, and that without any cruelty or lust of
blood or revenge.

About the thirteenth day of September we came within view of some islands, situated about eight
degrees northward from the line. From these the islanders came out to us in canoes hollowed
out of solid trunks of a tree, and raised very high out of the water at both ends, so that
they almost formed a semicircle. These canoes were polished so highly that they shone like
ebony, and were kept steady by pieces of timber fixed on each side of them by strong canes,
fastened at one end to the canoe, and at the other to the timber.

The first company that came out to us brought fruits, potatoes, and other commodities, none
of any great value, and seemed anxious to trade with us, making a great show of good-will and
honesty. Soon after, however, they sent out another fleet of canoes, the crews of which showed
themselves to be nothing better than thieves, for if we placed anything in their hands they
immediately considered it to belong to them, and would neither restore nor pay for it. Upon
this we were obliged to get rid of them, which we did by discharging a gun. As they had never
seen ordnance discharged before they were vastly astonished by this, and fled precipitately
to the shore, having first pelted us with showers of stones which they carried in their canoes.

On the fifth of November we cast anchor before Ternate, and had scarce arrived when the viceroy
of that place, attended by the chief nobles, came out in three boats, rowed by forty men on
each side. Soon afterwards appeared the king himself, attended by a large and imposing retinue.
Him we received with discharges of cannon and musketry, together with various kinds of music,
with which he was so highly delighted that he would have the musicians down into his own boat.
At this place we stayed some days, trafficking with the inhabitants, who brought us large quantities
of provisions, and behaved to us with civility. After that we repaired to a neighboring island,
and there found a commodious harbor where we repaired the Golden Hinde, and did ourselves enjoy
a much-needed rest.

Leaving this place on the 12th day of December, we sailed southwards towards the Celebes; but
the wind being against us, we drifted about among a multitude of islands mingled with shallows
until the middle of January. And now we met with an adventure which was like to have stayed
our further progress and put a summary end to all our hopes. For sailing forward under a strong
gale we were one night suddenly surprised by a shock, caused by our being thrown upon a shoal,
on which the speed of our course served to fix us very fast. On making this discovery we lightened
the ship by throwing into the sea a not inconsiderable portion of her lading. We had enjoyed
so little hope of ever extricating ourselves from this perilous position, that Drake had caused
the sacrament to be administered to us as if we had been on the point of death, and now that
we were mercifully set free we sang a Te Deum and went forward very cautiously, hardly daring
to set sails lest we should chance upon some reef still more dangerous.

We now continued our voyage without any remarkable occurrence or adventure, until about the
middle of March we came to anchor off the Island of Java. Having sent to the king a present
of clothes and silks, we received from him in return a quantity of provisions; and on the following
day Drake himself went on shore, and after entertaining the king with music obtained leave
from him to forage for fresh food. Here, then, we remained some days, taking in provisions,
and being visited by the princes and head men of that country, and later by the king, all of
whom manifested great interest in us, and in our armaments and instruments of navigation.

Leaving Java about the end of March we sailed for the Cape of Good Hope, which we sighted about
the middle of June. During all that time we met with no very remarkable adventure; nevertheless,
because we were sailing through seas which no Englishman had ever previously traversed there
was not a day which did not present some feature of interest to us, or add to our knowledge
of those strange parts of the world. To me, and to such of my companions as had suffered with
me in the dungeons of the Inquisition or on the deck of the galleon, this voyage was as a glimpse
of Paradise. For we were treated with the utmost kindness and consideration by Drake and his
men, and they would not suffer us to undertake anything in the shape of work until our wounds
were fairly healed and our strength recruited. To those of us who had suffered so bitterly
that our strength was well-nigh departed, this welcome relief was very grateful. As for me,
on discovering my condition I was rated with Drake and his officers, and with them did spend
many exceeding pleasant hours, listening to their marvelous adventures and stories of fights
with our old enemies, the Spaniards. But Pharaoh, hating to do naught, applied for a rating,
and so they made him boatswain's mate, and thenceforth he was happy, and seemed quickly to
forget the many privations and discomforts which he and I had undergone.

So on the third week of September, 1580, we came to Plymouth Sound, and once more looked upon
English land and English faces. And this we did with such thankfulness and rejoicing as you
cannot conceive. As for Drake and his men, they had been away two years and some ten months,
and in that time had taken their ships round the world. And because they were the first Englishmen
that had ever done this, there was such ringing of bells, and lighting of bonfires, and setting
up of feasts and jollities as had never been known in England. From the queen to the meanest
hind there was nobody that did not join in the general rejoicing. Wherefore, at Plymouth, where
we landed, there were great stirrings, and men clung around us to hear our marvelous tales
and adventures. And as for Drake himself, the queen soon afterwards made him a knight on the
deck of the Golden Hinde; and so he became Sir Francis, and thereafter did many wonderful deeds
which are set forth in the chronicles of that time.

Now, I no sooner set foot upon English soil than I was immediately consumed with impatience
to go home to Beechcot, and therefore I sought out Drake and begged him to let me begone.

"Why," quoth he, "knowing your story as I do, Master Salkeld, I make no wonder that you should
be in some haste to return to your own friends. I pray God that you may find all well with them."

Then he generously pressed upon me a sum of money in gold, wherewith to fit myself out for
the journey and defray my expenses on the way; and for this kindness I was deeply grateful,
seeing that I was utterly penniless, and owed the very garments I then wore to the charity
of one of his officers. So I said farewell to him and his company, and begged them to remember
me if we should meet no more, and then I went to find Pharaoh Nanjulian.

"Pharaoh," said I, when I came upon him on the deck of the Golden Hinde, "I am going home."

He pushed back his cap and scratched his head and looked at me.

"Aye," he said, "I supposed it would be so, master. As for me, I have no home to go to. My
mother is dead and buried in Marazion churchyard, and I have neither kith nor kin in the wide
world."

"Come with me to Beechcot," said I, "you shall abide there for the rest of your days in peace
and plenty."

But he shook his head.

"Nay, master," he answered, "that would never do. I am naught but a rough sea-dog, and I should
be too big and savage for a quiet life. Besides, yon constable of yours would be forever at
my heels, fearing lest I should break the peace again."

"There shall no man harm you if you will come with me," said I. "Come and be my man."

"Nay, master, not so. Born and bred to the sea I was, and to the sea I will cleave. Besides,
I am Francis Drake's man now, and with him I shall see rare ventures. Already there is talk
of an expedition against the Spaniards. That is the life for me."

So there was no more to be said, and I gave him my hand sorrowfully, for he had proved a true
friend.

"Good-bye, then, Pharaoh Nanjulian."

"Good-bye, master. We have seen some rare ventures together. I thank God for bringing us safely
out of them."

"Amen! I shall not forget them or thee. And God grant we may meet again."

So we pressed each other's hands with full hearts, and I went away and left him gazing after me.

CHAPTER XX.

BEECHCOT ONCE MORE.

Because it was autumn, I found some slight difficulty in traveling across country from Plymouth
to Beechcot, and it accordingly was several days before I reached York and entered upon the
final stage of my journey. At Plymouth I had bought a stout horse, and pushed forward, mounted
in creditable fashion, to Exeter, and from thence to Bristol, where I struck into the Midlands
and made for Derby and Sheffield. It took me a fortnight to reach York, and there, my horse
being well-nigh spent, though I had used him with mercy, I exchanged him for a cob, which was
of stout build, and good enough to carry me over the thirty miles which yet remained of my journey. As the sun rose, I strolled leisurely over a wavy golden-yellow
fields, the uneven sky blue long shadow over the gold ground stretched out. The sky was as dark
blue as Lydia's eyes, which I suddenly remember, this has, in the far distance is dragged blue mountains,
on which the Arab Town was, I lived and at the other edge of the prospect of some forests and
green Corridors, where you see the smoke and even the tents of the Bedouin as black dots could.
 But yet--what changes might there not be? I dreaded to think
of them. I might find my good uncle dead, Jasper in possession, my sweetheart married--but
nay, that seemed hardly to be believed. And yet if she thought me dead?

Thus I went forward, my heart torn by many conflicting emotions. Sali
nodded silently and Verena cried: "O God, dear God, it is my father, poor! Man, "and threw it
over him senseless and he raised his head, which, however, no Blood flowed. It lowered it again,
Sali settled on the other side of the man and both looked as quiet as the grave and paralyzed,
motionless hands into the lifeless face. For just a little to start, finally Sali said: "He will almost
surely not equal to the dead is not identified, "Verena tore a leaf of a poppy off and put it
on the pallid lips, and it moved slightly. "He's still breathing," she cried, "said running
but the village and fetch help. "
 I had grown
an inch or two, my face was seamed and wrinkled, and wore a strange, grim, wearied look, my
beard was a good three inches long, and my mouth covered by a moustache. Changed I was indeed.

I rode up to the door of the inn at Beechcot, where I had first seen Pharaoh Nanjulian, and
called loudly for the host. There was no one about the door of the inn, but presently Geoffrey
Scales, looking no different to what he did when I had last seen him, came bustling along the
sanded passage with his lantern, and turned the light full on my face. I trembled, and could
scarce control my voice as I spoke to him; but I soon saw that he did not recognize me.

"How far is it to Scarborough, master?" I inquired.

"A good twenty miles, sir, and a bad road."

"What, are there thieves on it?"

"There are highwaymen, sir, and ruts, which is worse; and as for mud--there, your honor would
be lost in it."

"Then I had better stay here for the night, eh?"

"Much better, if your honor pleases."

So I dismounted and bade him take my cob round to his stable, and followed him myself to hear
more news.

"What place is this?" I inquired.

"Beechcot, sir--a village of the Wolds."

"And who owns it, landlord?"

"Sir Thurstan Salkeld, sir."

"Is he alive and well, landlord?"

Now, whether it was my voice or the unwonted agitation in it that attracted his attention,
I know not, but certain it is that when I asked this question Geoffrey Scales held up his light
to my face, and after anxiously peering therein for a moment, cried out loudly:

"Marry, I knew it! 'Tis Master Humphrey, come home again, alive and well!" and therewith he
would have rushed away to rouse the whole village if I had not stayed him.

"Hush! Geoffrey," I said. "It is I, true enough, and I am well enough, but prithee keep quiet
awhile, for I do not wish anyone to know that I have returned for a season. Tell me first how
is my uncle and Mistress Rose. Are they well, Geoffrey? Quick!"

"Oh, Master Humphrey," quoth he, "what a turn you have given me! Yes, sir, yes; your uncle,
good man, is well, though he hath never been the same man since you disappeared, Master Humphrey.
And as for Mistress Rose, 'tis just the same sweet maiden as ever, and hath grieved for you
mightily. But what a to-do there will be, Master Humphrey! Prithee, let me go and tell all
the folk."

"Not now, Geoffrey, on thy life. Let me first see my sweetheart and my uncle, and then I will
cause the great bell at the manor to be rung, and you shall take it for a signal and shall
tell who you like."

So he promised to obey me, and I left him and took my way towards the vicarage, for my heart
longed sore for the presence of my sweetheart.

Now, as I came up to the front of the house there was a light burning in the parlor, and I
stole up to the window and looked in, and saw Rose busy with her needle. Fair and sweet she
was, aye, sweeter, I think, than ever; but it was easy to see that she had sorrowed, and that
the sorrow had left its mark upon her. I had always remembered her in my trials and torments
as the merry, laughing maiden, that had flown hither and thither like a spirit of spring; now
I saw her a woman, sweet and lovely, but with a touch of sadness about her that I knew had
come there because of me.

I went round to the door and tapped softly upon it. Presently came Rose, bearing a candle,
and opened it to my knock, and looked out upon me. I drew farther away into the darkness.

"Is this the abode of Master Timotheus Herrick?" I asked.

"Yes, sir," she answered, "but he is not in at this moment. You will find him at the church,
where he has gone to read the evening service."

"I had a message for his daughter," said I.

"I am his daughter, sir. What message have you for me?"

"I have come from sea," I answered. "It is a message from one you know."

"From one I know--at sea? But I know no one at sea. Oh, sir, what is it you would tell me?"

"Let me come in," I said; and she turned and led the way into the parlor, and set down the
candle and looked steadily at me. And then she suddenly knew me, and in another instant I had
her in my arms, and her face was upon my breast, and all the woes and sorrows of my captivity
were forgotten.

"Humphrey!" she cried. "O, thank God--thank God! My dear, my dear, it is you, is it not? Am
I dreaming--shall I wake presently to find you gone?"

"Never again, sweetheart, never again! I am come back indeed--somewhat changed, it is true,
but still your true and faithful lover."

"And I thought you were dead! O my poor Humphrey, where have you been and what has been done
to you? Yes, you are changed--you have suffered, have you not?"

"More than I could wish my worst enemy to suffer," I answered. "But I forget it all when I
look at you, Rose. Oh, sweetheart, if you knew how I have longed for this moment!"

And then, hand in hand, we kneeled down together and thanked God for all his goodness, and
for the marvelous mercy with which he had brought us through this time of sore trouble. And
on our knees we kissed each other solemnly, and so sealed our reunion, and blotted out all
the bitterness of the past from our hearts, so that there was nothing left there but memories,
sad indeed, but no longer painful.

"And now," said Rose, "tell me, Humphrey, where you have been and how it was you went away.
Oh, if you knew how we have sorrowed for you."

"First tell me, Rose, how is my uncle?"

"He is well, Humphrey, but he has mourned for you ever since Jasper came home and told us of
your death."

"Ah! Jasper came home and told you of my death, did he? You admired
but Zuesis spirit and eloquence, and in such admiration seemed to be no too poor to own the jewel,
especially since this was an ornament of a house as cheap and existed only in a restless tongue.
Whether they themselves of what they ask so high, even and are worth something to do with it
'knowing is such a daft question at the very end or not at all, but are like the children who
reach for anything they gleams in the eyes, lick by all things bright colors and a jingling
do all in their mouths, instead of merely to adhere to the ears. They are heated acquire more
and more in desire and imagination, this excellent person, and the vile, heartless and vain Zues
nonsensical phrases he became, the more agitated and miserable were the Kammacher it. At the
same time they felt a violent thirst of the dry fruit, which they ate now, Jobst and Bayer searched in
the woods on the water, found a spring and drank cold water fully. The Swabian, meanwhile, had
cunningly as a Phials taken, in which he mixed with cherry brandy and sugar water, which sweet
drink should strengthen him and give him a feed when running, for he knew that the others were
too frugal to take something or to hold a retreat. These vials, he drew forth a hurry now,
while those filled with water, and offered it to the maid Zues and they drank it half done,
she tasted excellent and was refreshed her and she saw there about the lock pick to cross very
gracious to him the rest, which he drank himself, so lovely and it tasted like Cyperwein authority
strengthened. He could not included, to take Zuesis her hand and kiss the dainty fingers,
they tapped him lightly with your index finger to his lips and he acted as if he then grab
wanted to and made a mouth like a smiling carp; Zues wrong and smiled kindly, Dietrich smiled
smart and sweet and they sat on the ground against over and patted sometimes with the shoe soles
against each other as if they give themselves with their feet hands wanted. Zues leaned a little
forward and put his hand on his shoulder, and Dietrich just wanted to say this lovely game and continue,
as the axis and Bayer came back and pale and moaning watched. For it was from all the water which they
at enjoyed the baking pears poured suddenly become miserable and the heartache that they felt
at the sight of the playing pair, joined with the desolate feelings of the abdomen, so that they
stand the cold sweat on his brow. Zues but lost the text not, but waved them very kindly and said:
"Come, dear ones setteth, and but you also have a bit to me since we have a little while and
for the last our unity and friendship, enjoy! "Jobst and Fridolin crowded hastily brought and
stretched out her legs; Zues let the Swabians in one hand, the other was Jobster and touched
with the feet Fridolin boot soles, while she with the face of a after another in order smiling.
So there are virtuosos, which many instruments play at the same time, shaking his head on a
carillon, blown with the mouth the Panspfeife, with the hands playing the guitar, beating
the cymbals with his knees, with the three-foot Angel and a drum with his elbows on them depends
on his back.

But then she got up from the earth, patting her dress, which she tucked carefully had rightly
said, "Now it is time, dear friends that we get up and! that you equip yourselves to that serious
going on, what you, the master in his folly imposed, but as we see the arrangement of a higher destiny!
Join this way to fully beautiful zeal, but without hostility or envy
one another, and let the over Winner willing the crown!

"As if stung by a wasp, and jumped to the journeymen and presented on his legs. As they stood
and should proceed at the same rank each other, with the same good legs, which so far only
changed in more mindful, honest step! None did more to remember that he was ever even cracked
or gone, most likely seemed to trust even the Schwabe and even to scratch with their feet
quiet, and the same to raise impatient. They looked at very strange and suspicious, were pale
and sweating here, as if they were already understood in the most violent running.

"Prayer you," said Zues, "hand again!" They did it, but so will-and casual, that the three hands
slipped and fell off as another cold Bleihaende. "Shall we really begin the work goals, "said
Jobson, wiping her eyes, which began to . Drizzle


Between the churchyard and the manor-house of Beechcot there is a field called the Duke's Garth,
and across this runs a foot-path. As I turned away from reading my own epitaph, I saw a figure
advancing along this path and making for the churchyard. It was the figure of a man, and he
was singing some catch or song softly to himself. I recognized the voice at once. It was Jasper's.
I drew back into the shadow cast by the buttress of the chancel and waited his coming. We were
going to settle our account once and forever.

He came lightly over the stile which separates the garth from the churchyard, and was making
rapid strides towards the vicarage when I stopped him.

"Jasper," I said, speaking in a deep voice and concealing myself in the shadow. "Jasper Stapleton."

He stopped instantly, and stood looking intently towards where I stood.

"Who calls me?" he said.

"I, Jasper,--thy cousin, Humphrey Salkeld."

I could have sworn that he started and began to tremble. But suddenly he laughed.

"Dead men call nobody," said he. "You are some fool that is trying to frighten me. Come out,
sirrah!"

And he drew near. I waited till he was close by, and then I stepped into the moonlight, which
fell full and clear on my face. He gave a great cry, and lifting up his arm as if to ward off
a blow fell back a pace or two and stood staring at me.

"Humphrey!" he cried.

"None other, cousin. The dead, you see, sometimes come to life again. And I am very much alive,
Jasper."

He stood still staring at me, and clutching his heart as if his breath came with difficulty.

"What have you to say, Jasper?" I asked at length.

"We--we thought you were drowned," he gasped out. "There is an inscription on your father's
tombstone."

"Liar!" I said. "You know I was not drowned. You know that you contrived that I should be carried
to Mexico. Tell me no more lies, cousin. Let us for once have the plain truth. Why did you
treat me as you did at Scarborough?"

"Because you stood 'twixt me and the inheritance," he muttered sullenly.

"And so for the sake of a few acres of land and a goodly heritage you would condemn one who
had never harmed you to horrors such as you cannot imagine?" I said. "Look at me, Jasper. Even
in this light it is not difficult to see how I am changed. I have gone through such woes and
torments as you would scarcely credit. I have been in the hands of devils in human shape, and
they have so worked their will upon me that there is hardly an inch of my body that is not
marked and scarred. That was thy doing, Jasper,--thine and thy fellow-villain's. Dost know
what happened to him?"

"No," he whispered, "what of him?"

"I saw him hanged to his own yard-arm in the Pacific Ocean, Jasper, and he went to his own
place with the lives of many an innocent man upon his black soul. Take care you do not follow
him. Shame upon you, cousin, for the trick you played me!"

"You came between me and the girl I loved," he said fiercely. "All is fair in love and war."

"Coward!" I said. "And liar, too! I never came between her and thee, for she had never a word
to give such a black-hearted villain as thou hast proved thyself. And now, what is to prevent
me from taking my revenge upon thee, Jasper?"

"This," he said, very suddenly, whipping out his rapier. "This, Master Humphrey. Home you have
come again, worse luck, and have no doubt done your best to injure me in more quarters than
one, but you shall not live to enjoy either land, or title, or sweetheart, for you shall die
here and now." The Lord wants to prosper you can always and forever and be blessed
by you, what you do to me "" I ask the other hand, however, that it your good me thinks, ""
Allweg can you ask for the "" And any time your want your product, be it Fruit, be it potatoes,
be it vegetables, and only to me, Bring me offers before you on the market, Go, so I was sure,
a right to have farmer's hand, which I I can leave! What are some for the goods, I will certainly
give a thousand Pleasures, you know me! Oh, it's nothing nicer than a wealthy city woman the so
helpless in their walls sits and yet so many things is needed, and a righteous Rural Women's honest,
experienced in all important and useful, a good and lasting friendship together! It is a bear with
a hundred cases, in joy and sorrow, at Gevatterschaften and weddings, when the children are taught and
confirmed, if included in the teaching and if they are to come in the stranger! Failure to wax and
floods, fires at and hail, for which God preserve us! "" What for us, God forbid, "said the
good woman sobbing and wiped her eyes with her apron, "what a wise and profound Braeutlein are you,
yes, you'll be fine, since this would be no justice in the world! Schoen, clean, clever and wise art
thou, hard working and sent to all things! None is finer and better than you, in and out of the
village, and who has you, mine must be that he is in heaven, or he is a villain and has to do
with me. Hoer, "Sali! That you are not legally artlich with my Vreeli, or I will show you the
master, you LUCKIES that you are such a to break little rose! "" So now here take my bundle, as you
promised me have, until I can pick it up! Maybe I will come, even in the coach and fetch it,
if you have nothing against it! A Potty milk you will not refuse me then, and about a nice almond
cake for that I'll bring it myself "" War Child! Give me the bundle! "


"All in good time, sir," said I, and went over to the rope which led to the great bell and
pulled it vigorously, so that the clangor filled the park below with stirring sound. And Geoffrey
Scales, waiting impatiently at the inn, heard it and ran round with the news, and they rang
the church bells, and every soul in Beechcot that could walk came hurrying to the manor and
would have audience of me in the great hall.

Thus did I come home again. And having told my story to my uncle, Sir Thurstan, and to Master
Timotheus Herrick, we agreed that for the present we would leave Jasper Stapleton's name out
of it. But somehow, most likely because Jasper and his evil-tongued mother disappeared, the
truth got out, and ere long everybody knew my story from beginning to end.

Within a few weeks of my home-coming Rose and I were married in Beechcot church, and again
the bells rang out merrily. It sought the face and hands to dive into the water and shouted: "I want to the
cool water to try! Do you remember how cold and wet our hands were when we they gave us for
the first time? Fish we caught at that time, now we will be even fish and two beautiful great!
"" Be calm, dear devil, "said Sali, had the trouble between Darling and the raging waves to maintain,
"it pulls me away otherwise!" He lifted his burden into the boat and swung himself, and he
put them on the high bedded soft and fragrant cargo and swung himself up well, and when she
sat up operation, the ship gradually in the middle of the river and swam out then, slowly turning
to the valley. May God forget me if ever I forget thee, my old, true friend!" I said, and
I led him in and made him welcome as a king to my house and to all that I had. And with me
he lived, an honored guest and friend, for ten years longer, when he died, being then a very
old man of near one hundred years. And him I still mourn with true sorrow and affection, for
his was a mighty heart, and it had been knit to mine by those bonds of sorrow which are scarcely
less strong than the bonds of love.

