'That's right!--just in time!  Jump in, and come home to breakfast. So you wouldn't be a party
to my Lady's tricks!--just like her--just as she wheedled poor Conway.  I will let her see
how I esteem plain dealing!  I don't say that I see my way through this business; but we'll
talk it over together, and settle matters without my Lady.'

James hardly knew where he was, between joy and surprise.  The invitation was extended to his
companion; but Fitzjocelyn discerned that both James and Mr. Mansell would prefer being left
to themselves; he had a repugnance to an immediate discussion with the one aunt, and was in
haste to carry the tidings to the other: and besides, it was becoming possible that letters
might arrive from the travellers. Actuated by all these motives, he declined the offer of hospitality,
and rowed across to Bickleypool, enlightening the Captain on the state of affairs as far as
he desired.

CHAPTER II.

THE THIRD TIME.

  Tho' this was fair, and that was braw,
    And you the toast of all the town,
  I sighed and said, amang them a',
    Ye are not Mary Morison.
                            BURNS.

Mrs. Frost and Louis were very merry over the result of Lady Conway's stratagems, and sat up
indulging in bright anticipations until so late an hour, that Louis was compelled to relinquish
his purpose of going home that night, but he persisted in walking to Ormersfield before breakfast,
that he might satisfy himself whether there were any letters.

It was a brisk October morning, the sportsman's gun and whistle re-echoing from the hill sides;
where here and there appeared the dogs careering along over green turnip-fields or across amber
stubble. The Little Northwold trees, in dark, sober tints of brown and purple, hung over the
grey wall, tinted by hoary lichen; and as Louis entered the Ormersfield field paths, and plunged
into his own Ferny dell, the long grass and brackens hung over the path, weighed down with
silvery dew, and the large cavernous web of the autumnal spider was all one thick flake of wet.

If he could not enter the ravine without thankfulness for his past escape, neither could he
forget gratitude to her who had come to his relief from hopeless agony!  He quickened his pace,
in the earnest longing for tidings, which had seized him, even to heart sickness.

It was the reaction of the ardour and excitement that had so long possessed him.  The victory
had been gained--he had been obliged to leave James to work in his own cause, and would be
no longer wanted in the same manner by his cousin.  The sense of loneliness, and of the want
of an object, came strongly upon him as he walked through the prim old solitary garden, and
looked up at the dreary windows of the house, almost reluctant to enter, as long as it was
without Mary's own serene atmosphere of sympathy and good sense, her precious offices of love,
her clear steady eyes, even in babyhood his trustworthy counsellors.

Was it a delusion of fancy, acting on reflections in the glass, that, as he mounted the steps
from the lawn, depicted Mary's figure through the dining-room windows?  Nay, the table was
really laid for breakfast--a female figure was actually standing over the tea-chest.

'A scene from the Vicar of Wakefield deluding me,' decided Louis, advancing to the third window,
which was open.

It was Mary Ponsonby.

'Mary!'

'You here?--They said you were not at home!'

'My father!--Where?'

'He is not come down.  He is as well as possible.  We came at eleven last night.  I found I
was not wanted,' added Mary, with a degree of agitation, that made him conclude that she had
lost her father.

One step he made to find the Earl, but too much excited to move away or to stand still, he
came towards her, wrung her hand in a more real way than in his first bewildered surprise,
and exclaimed in transport, 'O Mary! Mary! to have you back again!' then, remembering his inference,
added, low and gravely, 'It makes me selfish--I was not thinking of your grief.'

'Never mind,' said Mary, smiling, though her eyes overflowed, 'I must be glad to be at home
again, and such a welcome as this--'

'O Mary, Mary!' he cried, nearly beside himself, 'I have not known what to do without you!
You will believe it now, won't you?'--oh, won't you?'

Mary would have been a wonderful person had she not instantly and utterly forgotten all her
conclusions from Frampton's having declared him gone to Beauchastel for an unlimited time;
but all she did was to turn away her crimson tearful face, and reply, 'Your father would not
wish it now.'

'Then the speculations have failed?  So much the better!'

'No, no! he must tell you--'

She was trying to withdraw her hand, when Lord Ormersfield opened the door, and in the moment
of his amazed 'Louis!' Mary had fled.

'What is it? oh! what is it, father? cried Louis for all greeting, 'why can she say you would
not wish it now?'

'Wish it? wish what?' asked the Earl, without the intuitive perception of the meaning of the
pronoun.

'What you have always wished--Mary and me--What is the only happiness that life can offer me!'

'If I wished it a year ago, I could only wish it the more now,' said the Earl.  'But how is
this?--I fully believed you committed to Miss Conway.'

'Miss Conway!  Miss Conway!' burst out Louis, in a frenzy.  'Because Jem Frost was in love
with her himself, he fancied every one else must be the same, and now he will be married to
her before Christmas, so that's disposed of.  As to my feeling for her a particle, a shred
of what I do for Mary, it was a mere fiction--a romance, an impossibility.'

'I do not understand you, Louis. Why did you not find this out before?'

'Mrs. Ponsonby called it my duty to test my feelings, and I have tested them.  That one is
a beautiful poet's dream.  Mary is a woman, the only woman I can ever love.  Not an hour but
I have felt it, and now, father, what does she mean?'

'She means, poor girl, what only her own scrupulous delicacy could regard as an objection,
but what renders me still more desirous to have a right to protect her.  The cause of our return--'

'How?  I thought her father was dead.'

'Far worse.  At Valparaiso we met Robson, the confidential agent.  I learnt from him that Mr.
Ponsonby had hardly waited for her mother's death to marry a Limenian, a person whom everything
pointed out as unfit to associate with his daughter.  Even Robson, cautious as he was, said
he could not undertake to recommend Miss Ponsonby to continue her journey.'

'And this was all?' exclaimed Louis, too intent on his own views for anything but relief.

'All?  Is it not enough to set her free?  She acquiesced in my judgment that she could do no
otherwise than return.  She wrote to her father, and I sent three lines to inform him that,
under the circumstances, I fulfilled my promise to her mother by taking her home.  I had nearly
made her promise that, should we find you about to form an establishment of your own, she would
consider herself as my child; but--'

'Oh, father! how shall we make her believe you care nothing for her scruple?  The wretched
man!  But--oh! where is she?'

'It does not amount to a scruple in her case,' deliberately resumed the Earl.  'I always knew
what Ponsonby was, and nothing from him could surprise me--even such an outrage on feeling
and decency. Besides, he has effectually shut himself out of society, and degraded himself
beyond the power of interfering with you.  For the rest, Mary is already, in feeling, so entirely
my child, that to have the right to call her so has always been my fondest wish.  And, Louis,
the months I have spent with her have not diminished my regard.  My Mary! she will have a happier
lot than her mother!'

The end of the speech rewarded Louis for the conflict by which he had kept himself still to
listen to the beginning.  Lord Ormersfield had pity on him, and went in search of Mary; while
he, remembering former passages, felt that his father might be less startling and more persuasive,
but began to understand what James must have suffered in committing his affairs to another.

The Earl found Mary in what had been her mother's sitting-room, striving to brace her resolution
by recalling the conversation that had taken place there on a like occasion.  But alas! how
much more the heart had now to say!  How much it felt as if the only shelter or rest in the
desolate world was in the light of the blue eyes whose tender sunshine had been on her for
one instant!

Yet she began firmly--'If you please, would you be so kind as to let me go to Aunt Melicent?'

'By-and-by, my dear, when you think fit.'

'Oh, then, at once, and without seeing any one, please!'

'Nay, Mary,' with redoubled gentleness, 'there is one who cannot let you go without seeing
him.  Mary, you will not disappoint my poor boy again.  You will let him be an amendment in
my scheme.'

'You have been always most kind to me, but you cannot really like this.'

'You forget that it has been my most ardent wish from the moment I saw you what only your mother's
child could be.'

'That was before-- No, I ought not!  Yours is not a family to bring disgrace into.'

'I cannot allow you to speak thus.  I knew your trials at home when first I wished you to be
my son's wife, and my opinion is unchanged, except by my increased wish to have the first claim
to you.'

'Lord Ormersfield,' said Mary, collecting herself 'only one thing. Tell me, as if we were indifferent
persons, is this a connexion such as would do Louis any harm?  I trust you to answer.'

He paced along the room, and she tried to control her trembling.  He came back and spoke: No,
Mary.  If he were a stranger, I should give the same advice.  Your father's own family is unexceptionable;
and those kind of things, so far off--few will ever hear of them, and no one will attach consequence
to them.  If that be your only scruple, it does you infinite credit; but I can entirely remove
it.  What might be an injury to you, single, would be of comparatively little importance to him.'

'Miss Conway,' faltered Mary, who could never remember her, when in Louis's presence.

'A mere delusion, of our own.  There was nothing in it.  He calls you the only woman who can
make him happy, as I always knew you were.  He must explain all.  You will come to him, my
dear child.'

Mary resisted no more; he led her down stairs, and left her within the dining-room door.

'Mary, you will now--' was all Louis said; but she let him draw her into his arms, and she
rested against his breast, as when he had come to comfort her in the great thunderstorm in
auld lang-syne.  She felt herself come at length to the shelter and repose for which her heart
had so long yearned, in spite of her efforts, and as if the world had nothing more to offer
of peace or joy.

'Oh, Mary, how I have wanted you!  You believe in me now!'

'I am sure mamma would!' murmured Mary.

He could have poured forth a torrent of affection, but the suspicion of a footstep made her
start from him; and the next moment she was herself, glowing, indeed, and half crying with
happiness, but alarmed at her own agitation, and struggling to resume her common-place manner.

'There's your father not had a morsel of breakfast!' she exclaimed, hurrying back to her teacups,
whose ringing betrayed her trembling hand.  'Call him, Louis.'

'Must I go?' said Louis, coming to assist in a manner that threatened deluge and destruction.

'Oh yes, go!  I shall be able to speak to you when you come back.'

He had only to go into the verandah.  His father was watching at the library window, and they
wrung each other's hand in gladness beyond utterance.

Mary had seated herself in the solid stately chair, with the whole entrenchment of tea equipage
before her.  They knew it signified that she was to be unmolested; they took their places,
and the Earl carved ham, and Louis cut bread, and Mary poured out tea in the most matter-of-fact
manner, hazarding nothing beyond such questions as, 'May I give you an egg?'

Then curiosity began to revive: Louis ventured, 'Where did you land?' and his father made answer,
'At Liverpool, yesterday,' and how the Custom-house had detained them, and he had, therefore,
brought Mary straight home, instead of stopping with her at Northwold, at eleven o'clock, to
disturb Mrs. Frost.

'You would have found us up,' said Louis.

'You were sleeping at the Terrace?'

'Yes, I walked here this morning.'

'Then your ankle must be pretty well,' was Mary's first contribution to the conversation.

'Quite well for all useful purposes,' said Louis, availing himself of the implied permission
to turn towards her.

'But, Louis,' suddenly exclaimed the Earl, 'did you not tell me something extraordinary about
James Frost?  Whom did you say he was going to marry?'

'Isabel Conway.'

Never was his love of electrifying more fully gratified!  Lord Ormersfield was surprised into
an emphatic interjection, and inquiry whether they were all gone mad.

'Not that I am aware of,' said Louis.  'Perhaps you have not heard that Mr. Lester is going
to retire, and Jem has the school?'

'Then, it must be Calcott and the trustees who are out of their senses.'

'Do you not consider it an excellent appointment?'

'It might be so some years hence,' said the Earl.  'I am afraid it will tie him down to a second-rate
affair, when he might be doing better; and the choice is the last thing I should have expected
from Calcott.'

'He opposed it.  He wanted to bring in a very ordinary style of person, from ---- School, but
Jem's superiority and the general esteem for my aunt carried the day.'

'What did Ramsbotham and his set do?'

'They were better than could have been hoped; they gave us their votes when they found their
man could not get in.'

'Ha?  As long as that fellow is against Calcott, he cares little whom he supports.  I am sorry
that Calcott should be defeated, even for James's sake.  How did Richardson vote?'

'He was doubtful at first, but I brought him over.'

Lord Ormersfield gave a quick, searching glance as he said,' James Frost did not make use of
our interest in this matter.'

'Jem never did.  He and my aunt held back, and were unwilling to oppose the Squire.  They would
have given it up, but for me.  Father, I never supposed you could be averse to my doing my
utmost for Jem, when all his prospects were at stake.'

'I should have imagined that James was too well aware of my sentiments to allow it.'

What a cloud on the happy morning!

Louis eagerly exclaimed: 'James is the last person to be blamed!  He and my aunt were always
trying to stop me, but I would not listen to their scruples.  I knew his happiness depended
on his success, and I worked for him, in spite of himself.  If I did wrong, I can only be very
sorry; but I cannot readily believe that I transgressed by setting the question before people
in a right light.  Only, whose fault soever it was, it was not Jem's.'

Lord Ormersfield had not the heart to see one error in his son on such a day as this, more
especially as Mary peeped out behind the urn to judge of his countenance, and he met her pleading
eyes, swimming in tears.

'No, I find no fault,' he kindly said.  'Young, ardent spirits may be excused for outrunning
the bounds that their elders might impose. But you have not removed my amazement.  James intending
to marry on the grammar-school!--it cannot be worth 300 pounds a year.'

'Isabel is satisfied.  She never desired anything but a quiet, simple, useful life.'

'Your Aunt Catharine delighted, of course?  No doubt of that; but what has come to Lady Conway?'

'She cannot help it, and makes the best of it.  She gave us very little trouble.'

'Ah! her own daughter is growing up,' said the Earl, significantly.

'Isabel is very fond of Northwold,' said Mary, feeling that Louis was wanting her sympathy.
'She used to wish she could settle there--with how little consciousness!'

'If I had to judge in such a case,' said Lord Ormersfield, thoughtfully, 'I should hesitate
to risk a woman's happiness with a temper such as that of James Frost.'

'Oh, father!' cried Louis, indignantly.

'I suspect,' said Lord Ormersfield, smiling, 'that of late years, James's temper has been more
often displayed towards me than towards you.'

'A certain proof how safe his wife will be,' returned Louis.

His father shook his head, and looking from one to the other of the young people, congratulated
himself that here, at least, there were no perils of that description.  He asked how long the
attachment had existed.

'From the moment of first sight,' said Louis; 'the fine spark was lighted on the Euston Square
platform; and it was not much later with her.  He filled up her beau ideal of goodness--'

'And, in effect, all Lady Conway's pursuit of you threw them together,' said Lord Ormersfield,
much entertained.

'Lady Conway has been their very best friend, without intending it. It would not have come
to a crisis by this time, if she had not taken me to Paris.  It would have been a pity if the
catastrophe of the barricades had been all for nothing.'

Lord Ormersfield and Mary here broke out in amazement at themselves, for having hitherto been
oblivious of the intelligence that had greeted them on their first arrival, when Frampton had
informed them of Lord Fitzjocelyn's wound and gallant conduct, and his father had listened
to the story like the fastening of a rivet in Miss Conway's chains, and Mary with a flush of
unselfish pride that Isabel had been taught to value her hero.  They both claimed the true
and detailed account, as if they had hitherto been defrauded of it, and insisted on hearing
what had happened to him.

'I dare say you know best,' said Louis, lazily.  'I have heard so many different accounts of
late, that I really am beginning to forget which is the right one, and rather incline to the
belief that Delaford brought a rescue or two with his revolver, and carried us into a fortress
where my aunt had secured the windows with feather-beds--'

'You had better make haste and tell, that the true edition may be preserved,' said Mary, rallying
her spirits in her eagerness.

'I have begun to understand why there never yet has been an authentic account of a great battle,'
said Louis.  'Life would make me coincide with Sir Robert Walpole's judgment on history.  All
I am clear about is, that even a Red Republican is less red than he is painted; that Isabel
Conway is fit to visit the sentinels in a beleaguered castle--a noble being-- But oh, Mary!
did I not long sorely after you when it came to the wounded knight part of the affair!  I am
more sure of that than of anything else!'

Mary blushed, but her tender heart was chiefly caring to know how much he had been hurt, and
so the whole story was unfolded by due questioning; and the Earl had full and secret enjoyment
of the signal defeat of his dear sister-in-law, the one satisfaction on which every one seemed
agreed.

It was a melancholy certainty that Mary must go to Mrs. Frost, but the Earl deferred the moment
by sending the carriage with an entreaty that she would come herself to fetch her guest.  Mary
talked of writing a note; but the autumn sun shone cheerily on the steps, and Louis wiled her
into seating herself on the upper step, while he reclined on the lower ones, as they had so
often been placed when this was his only way of enjoying the air.  The sky was clear, the air
had the still calm of autumn, the evergreens and the yellow-fringed elms did not stir a leaf--only
a large heavy yellow plane leaf now and then detached itself by its own weight and silently
floated downwards.  Mary sat, without wishing to utter a word to disturb the unwonted tranquillity,
the rest so precious after her months of sea-voyage, her journey, her agitations.  But Louis
wanted her seal of approval to all his past doings, and soon began on their inner and deeper
story, ending with, 'Tell me whether you think I was right, my own dear governess--'

'Oh no, you must never call me that any more.'

'It is a name belonging to my happiest days.'

'It was only in play.  It reverses the order of things.  I must look up to you.'

'If you can!' said Louis, playfully, slipping down to a lower step.

A tear burst out as Mary said, 'Mamma said it must never be that way.' Then recovering, she
added, 'I beg your pardon, Louis; I was treating it as earnest.  I think I am not quite myself
to-day, I will go to my room!'

'No, no, don't,' he said; 'I will not harass you with my gladness, dearest.'  He stepped in-doors,
brought out a book, and when Mrs. Frost arrived to congratulate and be congratulated, she found
Mary still on the step, gazing on without seeing the trees and flowers, listening without attending
to the rich, soothing flow of Lope de Vega's beautiful devotional sonnets, in majestic Spanish,
in Louis's low, sweet voice.

CHAPTER III.

MISTS.

  Therefore thine eye through mist of many days
    Shines bright; and beauty, like a lingering rose,
  Sits on thy cheek, and in thy laughter plays;
    While wintry frosts have fallen on thy foes,
  And, like a vale that breathes the western sky,
  Thy heart is green, though summer is gone by.
                                      F. TENNYSON.

Happy Aunt Kitty!--the centre, the confidante of so much love! Perhaps her enjoyment was the
most keen and pure of all, because the most free from self--the most devoid of those cares
for the morrow, which, after besetting middle life, often so desert old age as to render it
as free and fresh as childhood.  She had known the worst: she had been borne through by heart-whole
faith and love, she had seen how often frettings for the future were vain, and experienced
that anticipation is worse than reality.  Where there was true affection and sound trust, she
could not, would not, and did not fear for those she loved.

James went backwards and forwards in stormy happiness.  He had come to a comfortable understanding
with old Mr. Mansell, who had treated him with respect and cordiality from the first, giving
him to understand that Isabel's further expectations only amounted to a legacy of a couple
of thousands on his own death, and that meantime he had little or no hope of helping him in
his profession.  He spoke of Isabel's expensive habits, and the danger of her finding it difficult
to adapt herself to a small income; and though, of course, he might as well have talked to
the wind as to either of the lovers, his remonstrance was so evidently conscientious as not
to be in the least offensive, and Mr. Frost Dynevor was graciously pleased to accept him as
a worthy relation.

