He et very ravenus.  Poor feller!  He had lived on odds and ends for several days, eatin' crackers
that had bin turned over by revelers in the bread tray at the bar.

He got full at last, and his hart softened a little to'ards me.  "After all," he sed, "you
have sum people at the North who air not wholly loathsum beasts?"

"Well, yes," I sed, "we hav' now and then a man among us who isn't a cold-bluded scoundril.
Young man," I mildly but gravely sed, "this crooil war is over, and you're lickt!  It's rather
necessary for sumbody to lick in a good square, lively fite, and in this 'ere case it happens
to be the United States of America.  You fit splendid, but we was too many for you. Then make
the best of it, & let us all give in and put the Republic on a firmer basis nor ever.

"I don't gloat over your misfortuns, my young fren'.  Fur from it.  I'm a old man now, & my
hart is softer nor it once was. You see my spectacles is misten'd with suthin' very like tears.
I'm thinkin' of the sea of good rich Blud that has been spilt on both sides in this dredful
war!  I'm thinkin' of our widders and orfuns North, and of your'n in the South.  I kin cry
for both.  B'leeve me, my young fren', I kin place my old hands tenderly on the fair yung hed
of the Virginny maid whose lover was laid low in the battle dust by a fed'ral bullet, and say,
as fervently and piously as a vener'ble sinner like me kin say anythin', God be good to you,
my poor dear, my poor dear."

I riz up to go, & takin' my young Southern fren' kindly by the hand, I sed, "Yung man, adoo!
You Southern fellers is probly my brothers, tho' you've occasionally had a cussed queer way
of showin' it!  It's over now.  Let us all line in and make a country on this continent that
shall giv' all Europe the cramp in the stummuck ev'ry time they look at us!  Adoo, adoo!"

And as I am through, I likewise say adoo to you, jentle reader, merely remarkin' that the Star-Spangled
Banner is wavin' round loose agin, and that there don't seem to be anything the matter with
the Goddess of Liberty beyond a slite cold.

                                              Artemus Ward.

2.13.  ARTEMUS WARD TO THE PRINCE OF WALES.

FRIEND WALES,--You remember me.  I saw you in Canady a few years ago.  I remember you too.
I seldim forget a person.

I hearn of your marriage to the Printcis Alexandry, & ment ter writ you a congratoolatory letter
at the time, but I've bin bildin a barn this summer, & hain't had no time to write letters
to folks.  Excoose me.

Numeris changes has tooken place since we met in the body politic.  The body politic, in fack,
is sick.  I sometimes think it has got biles, friend Wales.

In my country we've got war, while your country, in conjunktion with Cap'n Sems of the "Alobarmy,"
manetanes a nootral position!

I'm afraid I can't write goaks when I sit about it.  Oh no, I guess not!

Yes, Sir, we've got a war, and the troo Patrit has to make sacrifisses, you bet. 

When the ice of the Winter, in mildness were ending, To April I gave
half the welcome of May; While the Spring, fresh youth, come delightfully
blending The buds that are sweet, and the opus that are gay.

Inscribed to Miss Foote.
  I think sumbody oughter be prosekooted,
& it may as well be the war as any body else.  When I git a goakin fit onto me it's no use
to try ter stop me.

You hearn about the draft, friend Wales, no doubt.  It caused sum squirmin', but it was fairly
conducted, I think, for it hit all classes.  It is troo that Wendill Phillips, who is a American
citizen of African scent, 'scaped, but so did Vallandiggum, who is Conservativ, and who wus
resuntly sent South, tho' he would have bin sent to the Dry Tortoogus if Abe had 'sposed for
a minit that the Tortoogusses would keep him.

