"Where how many creatures be, So many puffed in mind I see; Like to Juno's birds of pride,
Scarce each other can abide: Friends like to black swans appearing, Sooner these than those
in hearing.

"Therefore, Pan, if thou may'st be Made to listen unto me, Grant, I say, if seely man May make
treaty to god Pan, That I, without thy denying, May be still to thee relying.

"Only for my two loves' sake, In whose love I pleasure take; Only two do me delight With their
ever-pleasing sight; Of all men to thee retaining, Grant me with those two remaining.

"So shall I to thee always With my reeds sound mighty praise: And first lamb that shall befall,
Yearly deck thine altar shall, If it please thee to be reflected, And I from thee not rejected."

So I left him in that place, Taking pity on his case; Learning this among the rest, That the
mean estate is best; Better filled with contenting, Void of wishing and repenting.

POEM:  DIRGE

Ring out your bells, let mourning shows be spread, For Love is dead: All Love is dead, infected
With plague of deep disdain: Worth, as nought worth, rejected, And faith fair scorn doth gain.
From so ungrateful fancy; From such a female frenzy; From them that use men thus, Good Lord,
deliver us.

Weep, neighbours, weep, do you not hear it said That Love is dead: His death-bed, peacock's
folly: His winding-sheet is shame; His will, false-seeming holy, His sole executor, blame.

Let dirge be sung, and trentals rightly read, For Love is dead: Sir Wrong his tomb ordaineth
My mistress' marble heart; Which epitaph containeth, "Her eyes were once his dart."

Alas! I lie:  rage hath this error bred; Love is not dead, Love is not dead, but sleepeth In
her unmatched mind: Where she his counsel keepeth Till due deserts she find. Therefore from
so vile fancy, To call such wit a frenzy: Who Love can temper thus, Good Lord, deliver us.

POEM:  STANZAS TO LOVE

Ah, poor Love, why dost thou live, Thus to see thy service lost; If she will no comfort give,
Make an end, yield up the ghost!

That she may, at length, approve That she hardly long believed, That the heart will die for
love That is not in time relieved.

Oh, that ever I was born Service so to be refused; Faithful love to be forborn! Never love
was so abused.

But, sweet Love, be still awhile; She that hurt thee, Love, may heal thee; Sweet!  I see within
her smile More than reason can reveal thee.

For, though she be rich and fair, Yet she is both wise and kind, And, therefore, do thou not
despair But thy faith may fancy find.

Yet, although she be a queen That may such a snake despise, Yet, with silence all unseen, Run,
and hide thee in her eyes:

Where if she will let thee die, Yet at latest gasp of breath, Say that in a lady's eye Love
both took his life and death.

POEM:  A REMEDY FOR LOVE

Philoclea and Pamela sweet, By chance, in one great house did meet; And meeting, did so join
in heart, That th' one from th' other could not part: And who indeed (not made of stones) Would
separate such lovely ones? The one is beautiful, and fair As orient pearls and rubies are;
And sweet as, after gentle showers, The breath is of some thousand flowers: For due proportion,
such an air Circles the other, and so fair, That it her brownness beautifies, And doth enchant
the wisest eyes.

Have you not seen, on some great day, Two goodly horses, white and bay, Which were so beauteous
in their pride, You knew not which to choose or ride? Such are these two; you scarce can tell,
Which is the daintier bonny belle; And they are such, as, by my troth, I had been sick with
love of both, And might have sadly said, 'Good-night Discretion and good fortune quite;' But
that young Cupid, my old master, Presented me a sovereign plaster: Mopsa! ev'n Mopsa! (precious
pet) Whose lips of marble, teeth of jet, Are spells and charms of strong defence, To conjure
down concupiscence.

How oft have I been reft of sense, By gazing on their excellence, But meeting Mopsa in my way,
And looking on her face of clay, Been healed, and cured, and made as sound, As though I ne'er
had had a wound? And when in tables of my heart, Love wrought such things as bred my smart,
Mopsa would come, with face of clout, And in an instant wipe them out. And when their faces
made me sick, Mopsa would come, with face of brick, A little heated in the fire, And break
the neck of my desire. Now from their face I turn mine eyes, But (cruel panthers!) they surprise
Me with their breath, that incense sweet, Which only for the gods is meet, And jointly from
them doth respire, Like both the Indies set on fire:

Which so o'ercomes man's ravished sense, That souls, to follow it, fly hence. No such-like
smell you if you range To th' Stocks, or Cornhill's square Exchange; There stood I still as
any stock, Till Mopsa, with her puddle dock, Her compound or electuary, Made of old ling and
young canary, Bloat-herring, cheese, and voided physic, Being somewhat troubled with a phthisic,
Did cough, and fetch a sigh so deep, As did her very bottom sweep: Whereby to all she did impart,
How love lay rankling at her heart: Which, when I smelt, desire was slain, And they breathed
forth perfumes in vain. Their angel voice surprised me now; But Mopsa, her Too-whit, Too-whoo,
Descending through her oboe nose, Did that distemper soon compose.

And, therefore, O thou precious owl, The wise Minerva's only fowl; What, at thy shrine, shall
I devise To offer up a sacrifice? Hang AEsculapius, and Apollo, And Ovid, with his precious
shallow. Mopsa is love's best medicine, True water to a lover's wine. Nay, she's the yellow
antidote, Both bred and born to cut Love's throat: Be but my second, and stand by, Mopsa, and
I'll them both defy; And all else of those gallant races, Who wear infection in their faces;
For thy face (that Medusa's shield!) Will bring me safe out of the field.

POEM:  VERSES

To the tune of the Spanish song, "Si tu senora no ducles de mi."

O fair! O sweet! when I do look on thee, In whom all joys so well agree, Heart and soul do
sing in me. This you hear is not my tongue, Which once said what I conceived; For it was of
use bereaved, With a cruel answer stung. No! though tongue to roof be cleaved, Fearing lest
he chastised be, Heart and soul do sing in me.

O fair! O sweet! when I do look on thee, In whom all joys so well agree, Just accord all music
makes; In thee just accord excelleth, Where each part in such peace dwelleth, One of other
beauty takes.

POEM:  TRANSLATION

From Horace, Book II. Ode X., beginning "Rectius vives, Licini," &c.

You better sure shall live, not evermore Trying high seas; nor, while sea's rage you flee,
Pressing too much upon ill-harboured shore.

The golden mean who loves, lives safely free From filth of foreworn house, and quiet lives,
Released from court, where envy needs must be.

The wind most oft the hugest pine tree grieves: The stately towers come down with greater fall:
The highest hills the bolt of thunder cleaves.

Evil haps do fill with hope, good haps appall With fear of change, the courage well prepared:
Foul winters, as they come, away they shall.

Though present times, and past, with evils be snared, They shall not last:  with cithern silent
Muse, Apollo wakes, and bow hath sometime spared.

In hard estate, with stout shows, valour use, The same man still, in whom wisdom prevails;
In too full wind draw in thy swelling sails.

POEM:  A SONNET BY SIR EDWARD DYER

Prometheus, when first from heaven high He brought down fire, till then on earth not seen;
Fond of delight, a satyr, standing by, Gave it a kiss, as it like sweet had been.

Feeling forthwith the other burning power, Wood with the smart, with shouts and shrieking shrill,
He sought his ease in river, field, and bower; But, for the time, his grief went with him still.

So silly I, with that unwonted sight, In human shape an angel from above, Feeding mine eyes,
th' impression there did light; That since I run and rest as pleaseth love: The difference
is, the satyr's lips, my heart, He for a while, I evermore, have smart.

POEM:  SIR PHILIP SIDNEY'S SONNET IN REPLY

A satyr once did run away for dread, With sound of horn which he himself did blow: Fearing
and feared, thus from himself he fled, Deeming strange evil in that he did not know.

Such causeless fears when coward minds do take, It makes them fly that which they fain would
have; As this poor beast, who did his rest forsake, Thinking not why, but how, himself to save.

Ev'n thus might I, for doubts which I conceive Of mine own words, my own good hap betray; And
thus might I, for fear of may be, leave The sweet pursuit of my desired prey. Better like I
thy satyr, dearest Dyer, Who burnt his lips to kiss fair shining fire.

POEM:  MUST LOVE LAMENT?

My mistress lowers, and saith I do not love: I do protest, and seek with service due, In humble
mind, a constant faith to prove; But for all this, I cannot her remove From deep vain thought
that I may not be true.

If oaths might serve, ev'n by the Stygian lake, Which poets say the gods themselves do fear,
I never did my vowed word forsake: For why should I, whom free choice slave doth make, Else-what
in face, than in my fancy bear?

My Muse, therefore, for only thou canst tell, Tell me the cause of this my causeless woe? Tell,
how ill thought disgraced my doing well? Tell, how my joys and hopes thus foully fell To so
low ebb that wonted were to flow?

O this it is, the knotted straw is found; In tender hearts, small things engender hate: A horse's
worth laid waste the Trojan ground; A three-foot stool in Greece made trumpets sound; An ass's
shade e'er now hath bred debate.

If Greeks themselves were moved with so small cause, To twist those broils, which hardly would
untwine: Should ladies fair be tied to such hard laws, As in their moods to take a ling'ring
pause? I would it not, their metal is too fine.

My hand doth not bear witness with my heart, She saith, because I make no woeful lays, To paint
my living death and endless smart: And so, for one that felt god Cupid's dart, She thinks I
lead and live too merry days.

Are poets then the only lovers true, Whose hearts are set on measuring a verse? Who think themselves
well blest, if they renew Some good old dump that Chaucer's mistress knew; And use but you
for matters to rehearse.

Then, good Apollo, do away thy bow: Take harp and sing in this our versing time, And in my
brain some sacred humour flow, That all the earth my woes, sighs, tears may know; And see you
not that I fall low to rhyme.

As for my mirth, how could I but be glad, Whilst that methought I justly made my boast That
only I the only mistress had? But now, if e'er my face with joy be clad, Think Hannibal did
laugh when Carthage lost.

Sweet lady, as for those whose sullen cheer, Compared to me, made me in lightness sound; Who,
stoic-like, in cloudy hue appear; Who silence force to make their words more dear; Whose eyes
seem chaste, because they look on ground:

Believe them not, for physic true doth find, Choler adust is joyed in woman-kind.

POEM:  A DIALOGUE BETWEEN TWO SHEPHERDS

Uttered in a Pastoral Show at Wilton.

WILL.  Dick, since we cannot dance, come, let a cheerful voice Show that we do not grudge at
all when others do rejoice.

DICK.  Ah Will, though I grudge not, I count it feeble glee, With sight made dim with daily
tears another's sport to see. Whoever lambkins saw, yet lambkins love to play, To play when
that their loved dams are stolen or gone astray? If this in them be true, as true in men think
I, A lustless song forsooth thinks he that hath more lust to cry.

WILL.  A time there is for all, my mother often says, When she, with skirts tucked very high,
with girls at football plays When thou hast mind to weep, seek out some smoky room: Now let
those lightsome sights we see thy darkness overcome.

DICK.  What joy the joyful sun gives unto bleared eyes; That comfort in these sports you like,
my mind his comfort tries.

WILL.  What?  Is thy bagpipe broke, or are thy lambs miswent; Thy wallet or thy tar-box lost;
or thy new raiment-rent?

DICK.  I would it were but thus, for thus it were too well.

WILL.  Thou see'st my ears do itch at it:  good Dick thy sorrow tell.

DICK.  Hear then, and learn to sigh:  a mistress I do serve, Whose wages make me beg the more,
who feeds me till I starve; Whose livery is such, as most I freeze apparelled most, And looks
so near unto my cure, that I must needs be lost.

WILL.  What?  These are riddles sure:  art thou then bound to her?

DICK.  Bound as I neither power have, nor would have power, to stir.

WILL.  Who bound thee?

DICK.  Love, my lord.

WILL.  What witnesses thereto?

DICK.  Faith in myself, and Worth in her, which no proof can undo.

WILL.  What seal?

DICK.  My heart deep graven.

WILL.  Who made the band so fast?

DICK.  Wonder that, by two so black eyes the glitt'ring stars be past.

WILL.  What keepeth safe thy band?

DICK.  Remembrance is the chest Lock'd fast with knowing that she is of worldly things the best.

WILL.  Thou late of wages plain'dst:  what wages may'sh thou have?

DICK.  Her heavenly looks, which more and more do give me cause to crave.

WILL.  If wages make you want, what food is that she gives?

DICK.  Tear's drink, sorrow's meat, wherewith not I, but in me my death lives.

WILL.  What living get you then?

DICK.  Disdain; but just disdain; So have I cause myself to plain, but no cause to complain.

WILL.  What care takes she for thee?

DICK.  Her care is to prevent My freedom, with show of her beams, with virtue, my content.

WILL.  God shield us from such dames!  If so our dames be sped, The shepherds will grow lean
I trow, their sheep will be ill-fed. But Dick, my counsel mark:  run from the place of woo:
The arrow being shot from far doth give the smaller blow.

DICK.  Good Will, I cannot take thy good advice; before That foxes leave to steal, they find
they die therefore.

WILL.  Then, Dick, let us go hence lest we great folks annoy: For nothing can more tedious
be than plaint in time of joy.

DICK.  Oh hence!  O cruel word! which even dogs do hate: But hence, even hence, I must needs
go; such is my dogged fate.

POEM:  SONG

To the tune of "Wilhelmus van Nassau," &c.

Who hath his fancy pleased, With fruits of happy sight, Let here his eyes be raised On Nature's
sweetest light; A light which doth dissever, And yet unite the eyes; A light which, dying,
never Is cause the looker dies.

She never dies, but lasteth In life of lover's heart; He ever dies that wasteth In love his
chiefest part. Thus is her life still guarded, In never dying faith; Thus is his death rewarded,
Since she lives in his death.

Look then and die, the pleasure Doth answer well the pain; Small loss of mortal treasure, Who
may immortal gain. Immortal be her graces, Immortal is her mind; They, fit for heavenly places,
This heaven in it doth bind.

But eyes these beauties see not, Nor sense that grace descries; Yet eyes deprived be not From
sight of her fair eyes: Which, as of inward glory They are the outward seal, So may they live
still sorry, Which die not in that weal.

POEM:  THE SMOKES OF MELANCHOLY

I.

Who hath e'er felt the change of love, And known those pangs that losers prove, May paint my
face without seeing me, And write the state how my fancies be, The loathsome buds grown on
Sorrow's tree.

