In addition to the changing of the poles of one's own mental states by the operation of the
art of Polarization, the phenomena of Mental Influence, in its manifold phases, shows us that
the principle may be extended so as to embrace the phenomena of the influence of one mind over
that of another, of which so much has been written and taught of late years. When it is understood
that Mental Induction is possible, that is that mental states may be produced by "induction"
from others, then we can readily see how a certain rate of vibration, or polarization of a
certain mental state, may be communicated to another person, and his polarity in that class
of mental states thus changed. It is along this principle that the results of many of the "mental
treatments" are obtained. For instance, a person is "blue," melancholy and full of fear. A
mental scientist bringing his own mind up to the desired vibration by his trained will, and
thus obtaining the desired polarization in his own case, then produces a similar mental state
in the other by induction, the result being that the vibrations are raised and the person polarizes
toward the Positive end of the scale instead toward the Negative, and his Fear and other negative
emotions are transmuted to Courage and similar positive mental states. A little study will
show you that these mental changes are nearly all along the line of Polarization, the change
being one of degree rather than of kind.

A knowledge of the existence of this great Hermetic Principle will enable the student to better
understand his own mental states, and those of other people. He will see that these states
are all matters of degree, and seeing thus, he will be able to raise or lower the vibration
at will--to change his mental poles, and thus be Master of his mental states, instead of being
their servant and slave. And by his knowledge he will be able to aid his fellows intelligently
and by the appropriate methods change the polarity when the same is desirable. We advise all
students to familiarize themselves with this Principle of Polarity, for a correct understanding
of the same will throw light on many difficult subjects. The Principle of rhythm is closely
connected with the Principle of Polarity described in the preceding chapter. Rhythm manifests
between the two poles established by the Principle of Polarity. This does not mean, however,
that the pendulum of Rhythm swings to the extreme poles, for this rarely happens; in fact,
it is difficult to establish the extreme polar opposites in the majority of cases. But the
swing is ever "toward" first one pole and then the other.

There is always an action and reaction; an advance and a retreat; a rising and a sinking; manifested
in all of the airs and phenomena of the Universe. Suns, worlds, men, animals, plants, minerals,
forces, energy, mind and matter, yes, even Spirit, manifests this Principle. The Principle
manifests in the creation and destruction of worlds; in the rise and fall of nations; in the
life history of all things; and finally in the mental states of Man.

