  Join your invincible
might to do worthy and godlike deeds; and then he who seeks to break your Union, a cleaving
curse be his inheritance."

OUR DUMB RELATIONS.  The world has never been without tender souls, with whom the golden rule
has a broader application than its letter might seem to warrant.  The ancient Eastern seers
recognized the rights of the brute creation, and regarded the unnecessary taking of the life
of the humblest and meanest as a sin; and in almost all the old religions of the world there
are legends of saints, in the depth of whose peace with God and nature all life was sacredly
regarded as the priceless gift of heaven, and who were thus enabled to dwell safely amidst
lions and serpents.

It is creditable to human nature and its unperverted instincts that stories and anecdotes of
reciprocal kindness and affection between men and animals are always listened to with interest
and approval.  How pleasant to think of the Arab and his horse, whose friendship has been celebrated
in song and romance.  Of Vogelwied, the Minnesinger, and his bequest to the birds.  Of the
English Quaker, visited, wherever he went, by flocks of birds, who with cries of joy alighted
on his broad-brimmed hat and his drab coat-sleeves.  Of old Samuel Johnson, when half-blind
and infirm, groping abroad of an evening for oysters for his cat.  Of Walter Scott and John
Brown, of Edinburgh, and their dogs.  Of our own Thoreau, instinctively recognized by bird
and beast as a friend.

In the greatest of the ancient Hindu poems--the sacred book of the Mahabharata--there is a
passage of exceptional beauty and tenderness, which records the reception of King Yudishthira
at the gate of Paradise. A pilgrim to the heavenly city, the king had travelled over vast spaces,
and, one by one, the loved ones, the companions of his journey, had all fallen and left him
alone, save his faithful dog, which still followed. He was met by Indra, and invited to enter
the holy city.  But the king thinks of his friends who have fallen on the way, and declines
to go in without them.  The god tells him they are all within waiting for him. Joyful, he is
about to seek them, when he looks upon the poor dog, who, weary and wasted, crouches at his
feet, and asks that he, too, may enter the gate.  Indra refuses, and thereupon the king declares
that to abandon his faithful dumb friend would be as great a sin as to kill a Brahmin.

     "Away with that felicity whose price is to abandon the faithful!
     Never, come weal or woe, will I leave my faithful dog.
     The poor creature, in fear and distress, has trusted in my power to
     save him;
     Not, therefore, for life itself, will I break my plighted word."

In full sight of heaven he chooses to go to hell with his dog, and straightway descends, as
he supposes, thither.  But his virtue and faithfulness change his destination to heaven, and
he finds himself surrounded by his old friends, and in the presence of the gods, who thus honor
and reward his humanity and unselfish love.

INTERNATIONAL ARBITRATION.

Read at the reception in Boston of the English delegation representing more than two hundred
members of the British Parliament who favor international arbitration.

AMESBURY, 11th Mo., 9, 1887.

