“It was a study for an artist—my appealing, pitying, impatient, scolding efforts to induce
those unreasonable little creatures to accept a rag, or a bottle in place of a mother. I shouldn’t
have cared so much, that is, I could have taken longer without minding it, had it not been
for Duke. His anxiety was so great, and his distress over their cries so keen, that I was quite
unnerved, and as is often the case, I showed my concern by scolding and abusing the objects
in whose behalf I was exerting myself.

“I was all but ready to give up, when one of the smallest and liveliest of the puppies (a feminine
creature, of course) suddenly seized upon the nipple of the bottle with a lusty grip, and sucked
away till she was all but strangled with milk. Her example was speedily followed by the others,
but before I had gone the rounds Duke comprehended that our trials were ended, and then—well,
the dignified, sad-faced old doggie took leave of his wits, temporarily, as well as his dignity.
He capered, he rolled on the ground, he barked, he bayed, he played leap-frog over my head,
did everything but stand on end, and very nearly that, in his joy.

“From that time on he never failed to be present when his infants were fed, and when I weaned
them, and taught them to drink, he was an interested spectator; helpful too, for one time when
a small dog was obdurate, he took him by the nape of the neck, and shook him thoroughly, before
turning him over to me for another trial. On another occasion, the pig of the family drank
too deep, as it were, from the flowing bowl, and might have been drowned had it not been for
his watchful parent. Duke noticed that the small fore-quarters were plunged into the liquid
dinner; he also observed that the hind quarters were slowly rising in midair. He watched all
this, with his accustomed, kindly gravity, until the equilibrium was lost, and Master Pup plunged
into the pearly sea. Then the startled father leaped to his feet, snatched his offspring from
a milky grave, and laid him, sneezing and choking, sadder and wiser, on the sunny grass-plat
to dry.

“In due time Duke recovered, in a measure, from his grief over Lady’s death, and took unto
himself another partner. As is usual in the case of widowers, his second choice was injudicious,
for Fanchon was a giddy, young thing, that didn’t have sense enough to come in out of the rain.

“But Duke saw no defects; he was all tenderness and attention.

“It was early winter, but the weather was intensely cold, and we had taken Duke and Fanchon
in from the stable, and had housed them comfortably in the cellar.

“One night I was wakened out of a sound sleep by cries of distress. I called my sister and
her husband, who were visiting me, and in various costumes, all hands went below. Fanchon was
running about, crying and moaning, and Duke was alternately making frantic efforts to soothe
her, and kiyiying in a manner that was fearful to hear. We succeeded at last in getting Fanchon
to heed us, and coaxed her to settle down in a comfortable bed we made for her on the far side
of the cellar, where she would have the benefit of the warmth from the furnace, and would be
out of the way of the cold air which came in through a window, broken the day before.

“As soon as she was pacified, Duke was again happy, and he cheerfully lay down to rest. We
retired to our rooms, and being very weary, with much sightseeing during the day, dropped into
a sound sleep. The next morning I hurried down into the cellar, wondering whether I should
see two dogs, or a dozen. To my surprise and dismay, I saw none at all. The cellar was silent
and deserted. I opened the outer door, and with a failing heart, stepped into the clear, bitter
cold of a temperature something like fifteen degrees below zero. Just around the corner of
the house, in a nook slightly sheltered from the biting air, I came upon the family. Fanchon
lay upon the ground, the snow carefully pushed up around her, and her clinging little ones,
who were taking their breakfast. Over all—Fanchon and her puppies—covering them with his faithful
body—shielding them with his never-failing love and devotion, was my noble hound—as noble,
as faithful a dog, as ever man or woman loved. I called to him, and rubbed him, but all in
vain, and meanwhile stupid, silly Fanchon, that had foolishly left her warm bed in the cellar,
looked on with cheerful indifference, and wagged her tail.”

“Well,” said Mrs. Cynic, when I had concluded the reading, “that story seems to me to prove
but one thing.”

“And what is that, pray?” I asked, realizing I had been foolish to read such a tale to such
an auditor.

“Why, the truth of Madame de Staël’s remark: ‘The more I see of men, the more I admire dogs.’”

That hateful woman! She always leaves me with a bad taste in my mouth. I know she springs from
some corrupt ancestry. She has all the marks of inward decay upon her.

When she had gone, Mrs. Purblind and I breathed more freely.

“She doesn’t believe in anything good,” said Mrs. Purblind.

“No,” I answered in a tone of disgust, “she has nothing within her to answer to it.”

“How different she is from Mrs. Earnest,” continued Mrs. Purblind; “why, you can hardly convince
that woman that anyone is really mean, and goodness knows she has trouble enough to make her
bitter. What a husband she’s got! That man makes me so mad! He’s ugly from sheer badness.”

I thought for a moment, and then I assented. I really do believe that man is ugly without cause.
He and his wife live at some distance from us, and I’ve often visited them. I should like to
give you a scene to which I was witness one evening when I was a trifle ill, and lay on a divan
just out of their dining room.

Mrs. Earnest is like a delicate flower that lifts its pretty face and smiles in the sunlight
of love, but is bowed and broken ’neath the thunder-cloud and storm. She longs to make her
home attractive, but her husband has no sympathy with this desire; to him home is merely the
place where he finds food and lodging, and a safety valve for such moods and tempers as he
is obliged to keep under control in the business world.

The efforts that this poor little wife makes, in her timid way, to start up pleasant subjects
of conversation would move a rock to tears.

This is the scene, as I recall it—a specimen scene.

The family—husband, wife, and three little children were at dinner, as I said.

“What’s been happening to-day? anything of interest?” asked the little wife.

“Not that I know of,” was the gruff reply.

Silence, broken by the occasional sound of eating implements, ensued.

“Pass the bread, will you?” he said in a short tone, directly.

“See how you like this bread; we are trying the entire wheat flour. I think it’s very nice
tasting, and they claim it’s rich in nutrition. It’s warranted to make blood, bone, and muscle—brain,
too, I believe. I’m going to eat several pounds a day; I may astonish the world yet.”

This feeble joke was received in stolid silence, and the poor little wife crept into her shell.

After a time she peeped out again, and made another effort.

“I went to the womans’ club this afternoon; Mrs. Pierson invited me. They had a very interesting
meeting; they brought up the subject of smoke consumers. I never realized before how much property
is ruined yearly by the smoke. It does seem as if manufacturers ought to use consumers.”

At this point Bruin openly yawned, and the little wife again retired. But with astonishing
elasticity of courage she issued from her shell once more, this time with the hope that a more
masculine theme would meet with some response.

“They brought a petition around here to-day for us to sign. It seems there is some talk of
flooring the reservoir and using it as a beer garden this coming summer, and the neighborhood
has been called upon to protest against it.”

“I know all about that,” he growled.

“Have you signed it?”

“I have.”

Again silence fell as a wet cloak upon them, and the little woman sat there racking her brains,
almost depleted by this time, for the atmosphere which such a man as that creates is warranted
to dry up all the intellectual juices.

One more despairing effort. The children had now left the table, so anecdotes of them were
in order. Probably the poor little wife thought that this man could be wakened into attention
by a story about one of his children.

“Mamie asked me where cats went to when they died. ‘They don’t go anywhere,’ I said; ‘when
they die, that’s the end of them.’

“‘Do they turn to dust?’ she asked.

“‘Yes, just turn to dust,’ I said.

“‘Why, then,’ she exclaimed, and her eyes grew as big as saucers, ‘when horses run ’long the
streets, are they kicking up cats?’”

All the man said was, “Umph,” and the little wife’s peal of merry laughter was checked, and
the ha ha’s grew fainter and spread farther and farther apart, until they died away altogether,
and I felt like charging upon that burly, surly demon, and butting him out of the window.

“How would you serve such a man, if you were his wife?” asked Mrs. Purblind.

“Roasted!”

                                 VIII

Mr. Gregory’s attentions had become an accepted fact in my life. They were dignified and steadfast,
and I received them with a certain calm pleasure. They had not, as yet, reached the point of
declaration, but it was clear to me, and to everyone else, who knew anything about the matter,
that they were tending thither, and my own thought had reached the point of acceptance. I had
the greatest respect for him as a man; we were congenial in our tastes, and personally agreeable
to one another. The position he had to offer me was a most dignified, desirable one, as he
was not only a man of sterling integrity, but also a man of wealth; there was, in short, everything
in favor of the alliance, and I looked upon it quietly, but with a sense of substantial, and
steadfast comfort.

Such an event as a marriage cannot even in prospect, face a thoughtful woman without making
a great change in her life. Mr. Gregory was that type of man who ought not to be allowed to
offer himself in a direction where there was no intention of acceptance, for his character
and age—he was fifty or more—forbade all thought of lightness or trifling, and gave one the
assurance that any marked attention he might show, was significant. My acquaintance with him
had extended over several years, and during this period there had been abundant opportunity,
on both sides, for study of character.

In a quiet way, I had been arranging my affairs, preparatory to my expected change in manner
of life. I had, as a matter of course, done considerable thinking during this time. I had experienced
none of the rapture always associated with a romantic attachment, but I was quietly happy,
and this condition was a far more natural one for me, with my cool, matter-of-fact temperament—a
far more promising one, in respect to future enjoyment, I felt, than something more ecstatic.

I had seen but little of Mr. Chance for some weeks. He had called several times, but on each
of these occasions, we had passed a somewhat constrained, and I thought, a rather dull evening.
Just why this constraint should have crept into our intercourse when we seemed to be coming
to a better understanding than heretofore, and were beginning to enjoy a warmer degree of friendship
than we had known, I could not understand; but its presence was undeniable, and it spoiled
everything for me, as far as he was concerned, causing me to look upon his calls in the light
of a bore, rather than as a pleasure, as I once had done. Occasionally a memory of that evening
when he came to my rescue, as the hungry, cruel waves gathered like wolves about me, would
flit across my mind, as a shadow may flit across a sunlit hill. Once in a long while I found
myself dwelling upon the look he gave me that night, and this, and the memory of his touch,
as he lifted me off the pier, would dim the sunshine of my cheerfulness. I could not have explained
this to myself, and I never dwelt upon the thought; whether from disinclination, or from fear,
I could not tell. I only knew that I always turned from it abruptly, and passed on to my plans
affecting my life with Mr. Gregory. It was quite easy to plan in this direction, for there
was nothing uncertain, as there might have been in the case of a younger man. Mr. Gregory was
fixed in his tastes, and way of life; I, too, at my age, had formed settled habits, and this
he knew; but, fortunately, in most directions, we were in harmony, and where we were not, we
had fallen into a way of making certain concessions.

So I had matters pretty well laid out; all my theories, born of years of close observation
of affairs domestic, were now brought to bear on my own future. Secretly I esteemed myself
a competent cook, when a husband was the dish under discussion. Mr. Gregory was not one to
require any very complicated wisdom in the culinary art. A little gentle stewing; no strong
seasoning; no violent changes or methods of any sort; but regularity, evenness; quiet affection;
respect; comfort, and general conformance to taste and nature would be necessary, and I felt
myself fully equal to it all.

Matters had well-nigh culminated, for I had received a note from Mr. Gregory asking when I
would be at home to him, and saying that he had a matter of great moment to both of us, to
lay before me. I set an evening, and then awaited his coming without the slightest quickening
of my pulse, but with a serenity and cheerfulness that appealed to my common sense as the surest
forecast of happiness.

Just at this juncture, a swift turn of the wind-cock, or some imprudence of diet, resulted
in my taking cold—a most unusual procedure for me, and at the time of Mr. Gregory’s call I
was unable to see him, being confined to my bed, in the care of a doctor, who was fighting
a case of threatened pneumonia.

Mr. Gregory expressed his sincere regret, and the next day called again, and left flowers.
These attentions were repeated daily, and soon after hearing of my improvement, he wrote me
a letter in which he said that which he had intended to say on the evening of the day I fell
ill. He did not request a reply; in fact, he asked me to withhold my answer until I should
be able to see him in person. It would have been wiser, perhaps, he said, to have postponed
any word on the subject until I had recovered, but he had found it difficult to delay the expression
of his feeling toward me, and hence had written.

This last rather surprised me, for Mr. Gregory had always seemed so unlikely to be swayed by
impulse, or carried, in the slightest degree, beyond a point indicated by his judgment. It
simply went to prove that the most regularly and smoothly laid-out man, if one may so express
it, has unsuspected crooks and turns.

I had no desire to answer the letter, being perfectly able and willing to wait until I should
see him. In fact, instead of hastening the time for my acceptance, I rather delayed it, for
I reached a point in my convalescence, when I was able to go down to the parlor, had I so wished,
and still did not.

Each day of my illness, a lovely bouquet of flowers had been left at my door. They came direct
from the greenhouse, and were left without card, or sign of the giver. I had an eccentric little
friend who was quite devoted to me, and was fond of keeping her left hand in darkest ignorance
of the performances of its counterpart—the right hand—and I attributed this delicate and beautiful
token of sympathy and affection to her; but, for some inexplicable reason, every morning when
the flowers were brought to my room, and I took them in my hand, a strange feeling came over
me—a feeling I had never had toward my little friend.

Over two weeks had passed, and I was downstairs in the study. My nurse had gone out, my housekeeper
was busy, and I was very lonely. I was standing at the window, looking westward. The sun had
gone down in regal splendor. Some fête was in progression in the sky, for the attendants of
the god of day were resplendent in attire. They had been marshalled from all quarters of the
heavens, and their stately and solemn procession, brilliant with the most gorgeous red, royal
purple, and dazzling gold, had caused my heart to dilate with awe and reverential admiration.

The lake, stirred by the wonderful pageant, caught the many hues as they dropped from heaven,
and tossed them on high in joyous, iridescent waves.

The climax of majesty and beauty was reached, and then the convocation broke up—not suddenly,
but slowly, and with gracious dignity. The sun sank into the waiting arms of the unknown; the
lights of heaven faded, and the clouds slowly melted into dusk.

The scene had stirred me as I am seldom stirred, and with the oncoming of night new thoughts
and feelings rose from their lair, as strange and beautiful wild animals step from their caves
into the deep mystery of darkness.

My neighbor next door—Mrs. Thrush, sat on her broad, vine-clad gallery, rocking her little
child in her arms. By her side sat her husband, with one arm thrown across her lap. He had
laid his paper down, for the daylight was fading, and perhaps his thought was too happy to
stoop to daily news. Softly the little wife and mother sang; she had a sweet home voice, and
no music of orchestra ever moved me as did her lullaby.

I was at that moment an intensely lonely woman. I thought of Mr. Gregory and my future, and
still I was lonely.

Far away to the east there was a low, long bank of clouds like a mountain range, and as the
poetry and melody of the lullaby rose from the little nest on my left, and stole into my thought,
I saw a faint light above this line; then a group of mist-like clouds that moved toward me.
Slowly the gray haze, tinged with soft light, began to resolve itself into shadowy forms, and
my heart stood still as, in some vague way, I traced a connection between the lullaby and the
vision, and realized that a message was coming to me.

I was perfectly calm, but with the calmness which is the outgrowth of an excitement so tense
that it is still. As the vision floated nearer, I heard soft music—a crooning, yearning, soul-satisfying
lullaby; I saw a little child, a mother, and a father. The child was as beautiful as an angel,
and there was that in its face which made my eyes flood with tears, and my heart ache with
yearning; the faces of the parents were too vague for me to recognize at first; then slowly,
that of the mother became more distinct, and I saw myself before me—myself, a wife and mother;
the visible answer to my heart’s deepest, most secret cry. Still the father’s face was hidden,
but as the vision floated by, he turned and looked at me—the vision wife—with a look I had
seen before, and I uttered a cry as I recognized Randolph Chance.

                                  IX

As I cried out, I turned slightly and, for a moment, lost the picture. It was changed when
again I saw it; Randolph Chance was still there, but he no longer advanced toward the vision
wife—she had faded into mist; he came slowly toward me. There was a beautiful look on his face—I
cannot describe it—it was too holy to translate into language; but I could feel it vibrate
through my being until it set my very soul a-quivering. I had no power of resistance—no wish
to resist. I almost think I went toward him, and he was as real to me as if he were in the
flesh. I could feel him as he put his arm around my waist, and his face touched mine. The vision
child had melted away; and we two were alone; I knew my heart then; I knew I loved this man.

It was all over in a few moments, but such moments as make an eternity, for they wipe out the
past, even as death blots out a life, and they open a door to the future. Up to that time I
had never thought that, without my knowledge or intent, my heart could slip from me—had never
dreamed that I, whose life had always been most commonplace—I, who had had my share of wooing,
but had never felt an extra heart-beat because of it—no, never dreamed that I, this I, so practical
and sensible, could be carried off my feet by a vision. A vision, was it? Yes, and yet real,
too real in some ways, since it revealed my innermost thought. A vision! And yet, even now
that it had melted into air, I was clinging to it, and instead of resenting its startling revelation
of self, was dwelling upon it, and in it, with a delight beyond words.

I sat there in my study, my head bent, and my hands loosely clasped in my lap, living it over
and over again. Out of doors, the soft gray dusk had hushed the tired world in its arms. Within,
the stillness of night had settled down upon the room. By and by the moon rose above the great
waters of the lake, and on shore the trees were casting silent, solemn shadows, made visible
by the soft, hazy light that lay between them. Once in a while a bird uttered its night cry,
or some little brooding note, and over on the vine-clad gallery, Mrs. Thrush still crooned
a lullaby to her little child, who lay asleep—soft and warm, on her mother-breast.

I was no longer lonely, no longer shut out from it all—there was the bird on its nest; the
little wife and mother in her home; and I—I was very near them—akin to them. I had seen myself
in my home, with my child, and my husband; I had felt his dear arms about me, and his dear
face close to mine. I was no longer an alien. I, too, had a place in the heart of another.

Still I sat and dreamed, and even the ringing of my door-bell failed to rouse me: but when
I heard the maid say to someone:

“She has been downstairs to-night, but I think she has gone up now, and I don’t like to call her.”

I started forward, saying quickly:

“No, I am here—I will see any one.”

And so he came in, but it was not the one I expected. It was Mr. Gregory.

I think that he found my embarrassment on greeting him both gratifying and encouraging, but
its cause was alien to his thought. I was brought back from another world, as it were, with
a rude shock, and in my enfeebled condition, consequent upon a severe illness could not control
myself. Indeed I did not feel that I was mistress of myself at any time during the evening.

After a word or two, which I cannot recall, I stammered out:

“I was not expecting you this evening—I had not sent for you.”

“I know that you have not,” he answered—then dropping his voice a trifle, he added, “I could
not wait any longer—I found it difficult to wait so long as this. I hardly dared hope that
I might see you this evening, but I felt I must try.”

Intent upon sparing him the pain of a spoken declaration, I exclaimed:

“Oh, Mr. Gregory, don’t! please don’t say anything more. I am not deserving of your esteem
and kindness.”

He came nearer me, and his voice was at once tender and reverent, as he said:

“You are more than worthy of what I have to offer, which is myself, and all that I have.”

“Don’t!” I cried again; “don’t say anything more! Let us imagine this unsaid!”

“Such words can never be recalled,” he said gravely.

“They must be,” I persisted; “I cannot accept! I have nothing to give in return!”

A look of disappointment came over his face, and if I mistake not, it was shaded with displeasure.
“I hardly expected this, Miss Leigh, I have hardly been led to expect this.”

“I know what you mean, Mr. Gregory,” I replied, more calmly than I had spoken before; “I know
that I have accepted your attentions—you have had every reason to expect a different answer.
I’ll not try to deceive you, or keep anything from you. I’ll tell you that I have not been
trifling. I have understood you for some time——”

He interrupted me here.

“Yes, you must have done so; my attentions to you could have but one interpretation, if I were
a man of honor, and you knew I was that.”

“I did, indeed,” I exclaimed. And then my mind went, with a flash like lightning, to Randolph
Chance, and I felt a sudden resentment. Had not he shown me attentions that no man of honor
can bestow upon a woman, unless he wishes to make her his wife? Why had he left me in this
strait? Why had he not spoken out? Why had he not claimed before the world that which he had
taken such pains to win? I was uncertain about Randolph Chance; I had never been uncertain
about Mr. Gregory. Why? Because I had perfect confidence in his honor. Was he not the better
man—the more trustworthy? Why could I not marry him? I loved another man. A wave of shame and
anger swept my face.

“I have all along been expecting to marry you. I have not been trifling,” I cried out.

He stepped forward, and took my hand. It was as cold as ice.

“What is it then, Constance, that has changed you? Have I done anything since your illness
to make you think less of me?”

I trembled from head to foot, and my lips were so stiff and dry that they scarce would do my
bidding. I must have spoken very indistinctly.

“No—no,” I said slowly; “I will tell you everything—I have done you a wrong, an unintentional
wrong, but I will do penance—I have seen myself to-night—” I paused here; Mr. Gregory was a
practical man; had I told him that a vision had changed my attitude, he would have thought
me insane. I myself had begun to entertain doubts as to my sanity. “I know myself now,” I faltered,
“I know my heart—I love another man.”

Mr. Gregory rose, and began pacing the floor.

“This surprises me greatly,” he said at length; “there must have been another courtship—it
would seem that you must have known something of how matters were tending.”

“I have known nothing until to-night. There has been no courtship, in the ordinary acceptation
of that word—I’ll tell you all, even if it humbles me completely, as a penalty for what I have
done to you. The man I love—” I could feel the blood mantling my face and neck, “has never
addressed me.”

Mr. Gregory paused, and looked at me.

“This is extraordinary,” he said.

“It is—I know it is—it is most of all so to me, for it is wholly unlike what I have been all
my life.”

“Let us not talk of this any more to-night, Miss Leigh,” he said, with evident relief; “I have
been wrong to press this matter now, when you are hardly recovered. You are not yourself. This
is something transitory, no doubt. Later on, you may feel differently.”

“No, no!” I exclaimed eagerly, “now that we have begun, let us say it all. Don’t—I beg of you,
don’t go away with a feeling that I don’t know my mind. I am weak and miserable to-night—”
here the tears choked my voice, and I all but broke down, “but I am miserable because I have
learned my true feeling, and know that I must disappoint——”

I could not go on, and again he sat down beside me and took my hand.

“I cannot understand you,” he said simply.

“I can’t understand myself,” I replied; “but all this is none the less real for that. I have
learned of it to-night, but it has existed before; it explains many things in the past year.”

“If that is the case, then I must accept your decision as final.”

“It is, indeed,” I answered briefly.

He rose, and walked the room in silence again; then pausing once more, he said calmly, and
with no trace of anger.

“This is the disappointment of my life.”

I said nothing. What could I say? To utter any platitudes about being sorry, would have been
to insult him.

“A man cannot live to my age—I am fifty-two, Miss Leigh—without experiencing disappointment,
but I have known nothing equal to this.”

He paced the room a few moments, and then said:

“This interview must be distressing to you. I am very sorry I brought it about before you were
strong and well.”

“Say one thing before you go, Mr. Gregory,” I cried, “only say that you don’t think I have
willfully misled you—say that you respect me still.”

His face was stirred by a slight quiver, as a placid lake is stirred by an impulse of the evening
air.

“You have had, and you always will have my deepest respect, and my deepest affection.”

He took my hand silently, and then quietly left the room.

And I sat there until I heard the front door close. Then I went upstairs, but I remember nothing
after reaching the first landing.

They found me lying there. They said I must have fainted.

                                   X

I was badly upset for several days. For a time I resolutely put all thought of what had occurred
from my mind, but as soon as I felt able, I sat down, with the whole matter before me, as it
were, and deliberately looked it in the face. I think I never felt more inane in my life than
when I remembered my folly, as I now regarded it. All that saved me from utter self-abasement
was the fact that it had occurred at a time when I was at such a low ebb physically, by reason
of illness. I determined to try to forget it, as speedily as possible. But, however keenly
I felt the humiliation and folly of my emotion upon that strange night, it never occurred to
me to waver, when recalling my decision to bring matters between Mr. Gregory and myself to
an end. My refusal of him had been brought about by one cause, and only one—that I fully realized;
and now that I had repudiated the cause, I might have been expected to reconsider the refusal.
But I did not.

Soon after I was up and about once more, I learned that my little friend had not sent the flowers.
I thought—no, I did not think! but I cherished secretly a—well, no! I cherished nothing in
secret or in public!

I learned something else, soon after getting up, and this was that a story was going the rounds
to the effect that Mr. Gregory had broken our engagement—and my disappointment had well-nigh
occasioned me a relapse. But in a twinkling, almost before I had time to get indignant, Mrs.
Catlin was running about, telling everybody that Mr. Gregory had confided in her, in strictest
confidence, the truth of the matter, which was that I had ended the affair, and not he.

I was much moved by this manly act on Mr. Gregory’s part. He showed his shrewdness, too; he
could not announce this in public, or go to people one by one, so he confided it to Mrs. Catlin,
and told her not to tell.

One Sabbath evening about ten o’clock, I began to lock up the house. Early retirement is something
all but unknown to me, but that night, having no particular reason for sitting up, I was about
to indulge in it as a novelty.

I raised the shade of one of the study windows, with intent to draw the bolt, but my hand paused
in the act, for my eyes were captured by a scene of surpassing beauty. Fall had lately swept
her gorgeous leaves one side, and closed her doors for the season, and we were now standing
on the threshold of winter. The early snows are apt to be soft and clinging; it is later on,
usually, when the thermometer takes a plunge downward, that they become crisp and hard. It
is seldom, however, at any time of year that the atmospheric conditions are favorable to such
a creation as I beheld that night. I hardly know just what is necessary to make it all—a still,
moderate cold, and a very humid air are among the most important conditions, I believe.

When I stepped outside my door early in the evening, the air all about me seemed to be snow,
not separated into flakes, but diffused evenly. Altogether it had the effect of a heavy white
fog, and I could see even then, that it was settling in visible, palpable, feathery forms,
not only upon the ground, but upon every bush and tree as well. It was a most unusual scene,
and I gazed at it long and admiringly; but having no fondness for walking through soft, clinging
snow, I was not enticed to sally forth, as I always am when the snow is firm and sparkling.

But by ten o’clock the temperature had changed, and in the cooler air the almost imperceptible
melting of the snow had been stayed.

The white carpet that had slowly been sinking, was now stationary, and was covered by a firm
crust that gleamed in the moonlight. There was no sparkle on the trees, but the feathery tufts
and pinions had ceased floating to the ground, and melting into air. The scene, in all its
matchless beauty, was arrested—held upon nature’s canvas for a few hours, by the Master hand.

Stay in doors that night! Would I be so wicked as to turn my back, or close my eyes upon one
of the most delectable scenes that ever a kind Providence spread before the soul of human creature!
Would I deliberately slight such an exhibition of love and marvelous skill? Not I!

It didn’t take me long to catch up hat and jacket, and with a heart that beat high, slip from
my house, as a greyhound slips the leash, and hie me away.

What mattered it that the neighborhood lights were raised—a story, at least—and that the owners
of all the villas near at hand, were preparing for decorous, temporary retirement. I merely
pitied them for their stupidity, and went my way. I had long been a law unto myself, and while
I did not believe in flaunting my independence in their faces, I none the less continued to
enjoy it.

There are nights when to sleep would be the sin of an ingrate; ’twould be like gathering up
the good things of Providence, and hurling them from out the window, in reckless waste. And
this night was such a one.

The keen air, and the entrancing beauty about me, seemed to run in a subtle, fascinating torrent
through my veins, and lend me wings. I felt as though I were buoyed up by magic hands; I hardly
think I set foot on ground the whole way, and yet I must, for I was conscious of a crisp crackle
of the snow at every step.

Oh, is there any sound just like it! Could our poor invalids but pitch their nostrums over
the wall, and take this tonic instead!

Some friends of mine moved a while ago and drove their family stake in a spot far off from
here. They are continually writing me of a region of perpetual sunshine and summer. I thought
of them on this glorious night, and pitied them from the depths of my heart, as I often have,
indeed, since they went out there. Theirs is the place for the extremely indigent, no doubt,
but for any one who can command a dollar or so for fuel, this—this is the land of delight.

I was at no loss as to direction; our suburb was beautiful throughout, especially all along
by the lake, but there was one place in particular, where art and nature had joined hands,
with a result indescribable. Toward these grounds I hastened, on this particular night.

Oh, the glory of that moon! the glory of the lake! an undulating sea of waves, each crested
with a feather, as soft, as snowy in the moonlight, as the tinier ones that hung upon the trees.

I ran down the winding avenue—the white fog still lingered in the deep places, but above, all
was clear and glorious. Erelong I entered the Dunham’s grounds. At a certain point, unmarked
to the stranger’s eye, a rustic flight of stairs, now strewn with dead leaves—padded with snow
as well, to-night, dips down from the broad driveway. Quickly I made my way by this path, and
erelong, stood upon one of the little rustic bridges spanning the ravine, and connecting with
a similar flight of ascending stairs upon the other side. There I paused, and well I might.
It were a dull, plodding creature indeed, who would not be spellbound by such a scene! On either
hand were the sloping wooded sides of the ravine whose depths were shrouded in the mysterious
whiteness of the fog; above me, a short distance in front, was the arch of the broad, picturesque
bridge with which the driveway spans the hollow. The little rustic bridge on which I stood
was much lower than the larger one; hence, from my position, I looked through the archway,
beyond, down, and far along the ravine. Can you call up fairyland to your mental eye? It would
pale before this scene—those feathery trees! that enchanting vista! I stood there drinking
it in, and pitying the sleeping world. I could not, even in thought, express my delight and
gratitude for being permitted to behold such beauty, but finally a familiar line leaped from
my lips:

    “Praise God from whom all blessings flow.”

I can never forget that night; it kindled and warmed my heart with a reverential fire. If,
in the course of years, my way should be overcast; if, for a time, I should let the artificial—the
ignoble, clog the path, and shut me out from the light of heaven, even then I shall be saved
from doubt, which is always engendered by our stupidity—the things of our own manufacture—I
shall be saved from doubt by the sweet, pure, radiant memory of that winter, moonlight scene.
Only a beneficent God could create such beauty.

                                  XI

On my way back—at what dissipated hour I firmly decline to state—I passed a home with an interesting
history tacked thereto.

The leading events were brought me by one of those active, inquisitive little birds that find
out all sorts of things, and often fetch from great distances.

The couple who live there, though Americans, once lived in Winnipeg, Manitoba, and it was in
that place that the husband fell to drinking. The little bird above alluded to—the bird that
acts as a kind of domestic ferret—told me that, in the early years of their married life, the
wife was of an excitable, hysterical temperament, and given to making scenes. Just here let
me digress a moment to erect a warning signboard. I have a friend who is busy mixing and administering
a deadly draught to her domestic happiness, and yet does not know it. She has only been married
a year, and she uses tears and scenes, in general, as instruments to pull from her husband
the attention, affection, and devotion she craves. The tug waxes increasingly hard, but she
has not, as yet, sense enough to see that, and desist. She cannot realize that the success
attained by such methods is but the temporary and external beauty, which, in reality, covers
a failure of the most hopeless type, just as the flush on the consumptive’s cheek is but a
pitiable counterfeit, and covers a fatal disease.

