But Shakespeare's pen dispelled any atmosphere of respectability which lingered around the
Boar's Head. From the time when he made it the meeting-place of the mad-cap Prince of Wales
and his roistering followers, down to the day of Goldsmith's reverie under its roof, the inn
has dwelt in the imagination at least as the rendezvous of hard drinkers and practical jokers.
How could it be otherwise after the limning of such a scene as that described in Henry IV?
That was sufficient to dedicate the inn to conviviality for ever.

How sharply the picture shapes itself as the hurrying dialogue is read! The key-note of merriment
is struck by the Prince himself as he implores the aid of Poins to help him laugh at the excellent
trick he has just played on the boastful but craven Falstaff, and the bustle and hilarity of
the scene never flags for a moment. Even Francis, the drawer, whose vocabulary is limited to
"Anon, anon, sir"--the fellow that had "fewer words than a parrot, and yet the son of a woman"--and
the host himself, as perplexed as his servant when two customers call at once, contribute to
the movement of the episode in its earlier stages. But the pace is, increased furiously when
the burly Falstaff, scant of breath indeed, bustles hurriedly in proclaiming in one breath
his scorn of cowards and his urgent need of a cup of sack. We all know the boastful story he
told, how he and his three companions had been set upon and robbed by a hundred men, how he
himself--as witness his sword "packed like a hand-saw"--had kept at bay and put to flight now
two, anon four, and then seven, and finally eleven of his assailants. We all can see, too,
the roguish twinkle in Prince Hal's eyes as the braggart knight embellishes his lying tale
with every fresh sentence, and are as nonplussed as he when, the plot discovered, Falstaff
finds a way to take credit for his cowardice. Who would not forgive so cajoling a vaunter?

It was later in this scene, be it remembered, that the portly knight was found fast asleep
behind the arras, "snorting like a horse," and had his pockets searched to the discovery of
that tavern bill--not paid we may be sure--which set forth an expenditure on the staff of life
immensely disproportionate to that on drink, and elicited the famous ejaculation--"But one
half-pennyworth of bread to this intolerable deal of sack!"

But Shakespeare had not finished with the Boar's Head. More coarse and less merry, but not
less vivid, is that other scene wherein the shrill-tongued Doll Tearsheet and the peace-making
Dame Quickly figure. And it is of a special and private room in the Boar's Head we think as
we listen to Dame Quickly's tale of how the amorous Falstaff made love to her with his hand
upon "a parcel-gilt goblet," and followed up the declaration with a kiss and a request for
thirty shillings.

For Shakespeare's sake, then, the Boar's Head is elect into that small circle of inns which
are immortal in the annals of literature. But, like Chaucer's Tabard, no stone of it is left.
Boswell made a mistake, and so did Goldsmith after him, in thinking that the Boar's Head of
the eighteenth century was the Boar's Head of Shakespeare's day. They both forgot the great
Fire of London. That disastrous conflagration of 1666 swept away every vestige of the old inn.
Upon its foundation, however, another Boar's Head arose, the sign of which, cut in stone and
dated 1668, is among the treasures of the Guildhall Museum. This was the building in which
Boswell's club met, and it was under its roof Goldsmith penned his famous reverie.

As was to be expected of that social soul, the character of Falstaff gave Goldsmith more consolation
than the most studied efforts of wisdom: "I here behold," he continues, "an agreeable old fellow
forgetting age, and showing me the way to be young at sixty-five.

With such zest did Goldsmith enter into his night out at the Boar's Head that when the midnight
hour arrived he discovered all his companions had stolen away, leaving him--still in high spirits
with the landlord as his sole companion. Then the mood of reverie began to work. The very room
helped to transport him back through the centuries; the oak floor, the gothic windows, the
ponderous chimney-piece,--all were reminders of the past. But the prosaic landlord was an obstacle
to the complete working of the spell. At last, however, a change came over mine host, or so
it seemed to the dreaming chronicler. "He insensibly began to alter his appearance; his cravat
seemed quilled into a ruff, and his breeches swelled out into a farlingale.

Such an opportunity of interviewing an acquaintance of Falstaff was not to be lost, and to
the credit of Dame Quickly be it said that she was far more communicative than some moderns
are under the questioning ordeal. But it was no wonder she was loquacious: had she not been
ordered by Pluto to keep a record of every transaction at the Boar's Head, and in the discharge
of that duty compiled three hundred tomes? Some may subscribe to the opinion that Dame Quickly
was indiscreet as well as loquacious; certainly she did not spare the reputations of some who
had dwelt under that ancient roof. The sum of the matter, however, was that since the execution
of that hostess who was accused of witchcraft the Boar's Head "underwent several revolutions,
according to the spirit of the times, or the disposition of the reigning monarch. It was this
day a brothel, and the next a conventicle for enthusiasts. It was one year noted for harbouring
Whigs, and the next infamous for a retreat to Tories. Some years ago it was in high vogue,
but at present it seems declining."

One other son of genius was to add to the fame of the Boar's Head, the American Goldsmith,
that is, the gentle Washington Irving. Of course Shakespeare was the moving spirit once more.
While turning over the pages of Henry IV Irving was seized with a sudden inspiration: "I will
make a pilgrimage to Eastcheap, and see if the old Boar's Head tavern still exists." But it
was too late. The only relic of the ancient abode of Dame Quickly was the stone boar's head,
built into walls reared where the inn once stood. Nothing daunted, however, Irving explored
the neighbourhood, and was rewarded, as he thought, by running to earth Dame Quickly's "parcel-gilt
goblet" in a tavern near by. He had one other "find."

Small as was the reward of living's quest, a still more barren result would ensue on a modern
pilgrimage to the Boar's Head. It was still a tavern in 1785, for a chronicler of that date
described it as having on each side of the doorway "a vine branch, carved in wood, rising more
than three feet from the ground, loaded with leaves and clusters; and on the top of each a
little Falstaff, eight inches high, in the dress of his day." But Dame Quickly's forecast of
declining fortune moved on to its fulfilment. In the last stages of its existence the building
was divided into two, while the carved boar's head which Irving saw still remained as the one
sign of its departed glories. He dines in fish on Weekday, and worsen mixed Feeling in ancient gironde.
He travel during church has been regularly; his bench is a quadrate to one, with visiting curtains.
He takes his vintage moderation; never bets, nor plays above wop component, and has always
at cards. But the curious in such matters may be interested
to know that the statue of King William marks approximately the spot of ground where hover
the immortal memories of Shakespeare, and Goldsmith, and Irving.

