Poor old men are dragged out nolens volens to add their mite to the public voice, and are sometimes
so aged that they scarcely know what their opinions are. I hope I shall not live to be very
old. It is a terrible thing when you make such a prolonged stay on this earth that you have
to be helped off it.

It is very curious too, how exceedingly disobliging old people are. I know a family who have
never worn anything brighter than grey for years. "In case we have to go into mourning soon--our
poor old aunt, you know. It's so very sad!" and they squeeze a tear out from somewhere, but
whether on account of their relative's illness, or her prolonged life, is open to opinion.
The old lady is flourishing still, and the family is as soberly clothed as ever. When she has
been dead a few months what rainbows they will become, to make up for lost time!

"A disappointing man," I have heard a dutiful nephew term his uncle. True, he (the uncle, I
mean) is ninety-four, and therefore old enough to know better than to rally so many times.
But after all, he does nothing, runs into no danger, is tended as carefully as a new-born baby;
I should not at all wonder if he still continued "disappointing" and took a new lease of life
for seven years. But I am digressing, and must return to politics.

I went to a Primrose meeting once and the experience was not so happy as to make me wish to
try it again.

It amused me, certainly. The conclusion I eventually arrived at, when I left, was that the
chief element in the Primrose League was gratitude! This virtue seemed to be the point round
which all the speakers rallied.

First the secretary rose, ran off a quantity of statistics, as to what had been done by the
great League, what it was going to do, and how many converts had been induced to join, which
was exceedingly uninteresting, I think, but which elicited loud applause from the rest of the
audience. Then some resolution was passed, at which if you agreed you were begged "to signify
the same in the usual way." After which those who thought differently were asked to show their
feelings in the same fashion. I held my hand up here, but I suppose the ruling councillor did
not expect any opposition, for he never even looked round to see, but gabbled off by rote,
"On the contrary? carried unanimously!" and my amiable attempt at running counter to the rest
was not even noticed!

Then the ruling councillor gave way to Mr. ---- (here a sickly smile was directed at the great
man), who had so very kindly come to speak to us this evening, who would, he felt sure, quite
enchant us with his--er--great eloquence (another leer to his right).

The great man then came forward, and with a superior smile on his countenance waited until
the applause which greeted his entrance had ceased, and then began. He commenced somewhat softly,
detailing all the advantages of the Primrose League: what it had done for England, the fear
it arouses in the heart of the Liberal faction, how it will raise the country to a summit it
never before has reached! No! and never would have reached had it not been for this flourishing,
this powerful League! &c., &c., &c. His voice gradually grew louder and louder until, with
beating his hands on the table, stamping violently over the sins of the Radicals, and perspiring
vehemently in the effort, he presented anything but a pleasing spectacle.

Of course animation like this brought down the house. The applause nearly deafened me, and
I was quite glad when he drew near the end of his most tedious speech. He concluded by calming
down very suddenly, returned to his original tones, and thanking his audience for his exceedingly
kind reception, retired to his seat looking, as Mr. Mantalini would say, a "dem'd damp, moist,
unpleasant body."

Then up rose the ruling councillor, and called us all to pass a vote of thanks to the "gifted
orator." Someone seconded it, and the great man came forward again to thank us for thanking
him. A sort of "So glad, I'm glad, you're glad" business, it seemed to me.

Then the ladies were thanked for being present: "Such great aids, and such an important element
in the League," with a snigger, and what he confidently hoped was a fascinating smile, but
which made him resemble a very placid cow with the corners of its mouth turned up. Such a mouth,
too! The poor man could have whispered in his own ear had he wished. Then someone returned
thanks for the ladies. The ruling councillor was thanked, and thanked his thankers back again,
and after a few more people had exhibited their great faculty for gratitude the meeting broke
up--the only moment at which I felt inclined to applaud.

I do not wish to disparage my own "side" by the foregoing remarks, not caring in any way to
emulate Balaam. It is not only the members of the Primrose League who are so anxious to praise
each other. It is the case at nearly every meeting you go to. It is a weakness of human nature.
We know that if we laud our friend he will sing an eulogy on us the next minute, so it is only
natural we should do it, after all.

    "The fault is not in our stars,
    But in ourselves, that we are underlings."

CHAPTER IV.

ON AFTERNOON TEA.

    "The Muses' friend, Tea, does our fancy aid,
    Repress the vapors which the head invade,
    And keeps the palace of the soul serene."

How I do love tea! I don't deny it, it is as necessary to me as smoking is to men.

I have heard a lady accused by her doctor of being a "tea-drunkard"! "Tea picks you up for
a little time," he said, "and you feel a great deal better after you have had a cup. But it
is a stimulant, the effect of which does not last very long, and all the while it is ruining
your nerves and constitution. I daresay it is difficult to give up--the poor man finds the
same with his spirits. You are no better than he!"

It is rather a come down, is it not? Somehow, when you are drinking tea, you feel so very temperate.
Well, at least, the above reflection makes you sympathize with the inebriates, if it does nothing
else; and I am afraid it does nothing else with me. In spite of the warning, I continue to
take my favorite beverage as strong and as frequently as ever, and so I suppose must look forward
to a cranky nervous old age.

It is curious to notice how men are invading our precincts now-a-days. They used to scoff at
such a meal as afternoon tea, and now most of them take it as regularly as they stream out
of the trains on Saturday afternoons with pink papers under their arms--such elevating literature!
Indeed there is quite a fuss if they have to go without it--the tea I mean, not the paper.

It is strange too, because they dislike it so, if we trespass on their preserves, e.g., their
outcry on ladies smoking: which is exceedingly unfair, for we have no equivalent for the fragrant
weed. Still I agree with the men in a way, for nothing looks worse than a girl smoking in public,
though a cigarette now and then with a brother does, I think, no harm, provided it does not
grow into a habit.

My brother once gave me a cigarette and bet me a shilling that I would not smoke it through.
It was so hard that if I had bent it, it would have snapped in two. He had only just found
it in a corner of a cupboard where it had lain for years and years. But oh, the strength of
that cigarette! It took me hours to get through, for it would not draw a bit. Nevertheless,
with the incentive of a shilling to urge me on, I continued "faint but pursuing" and eventually
won the bet. I would not do it again for ten times the amount.

But I should be talking about tea, not smoking; and tea has other baneful influences besides
destroying the digestion. I think that afternoon tea is the time that breeds more gossip and
scandal than any other hour in the day.

As Young exclaims:--

    "Tea! How I tremble at thy fatal stream!
    As Lethe dreadful to the love of fame.
    What devastations on thy bank are seen,
    What shades of mighty names that once have been!
    A hecatomb of characters supplies
    Thy painted alters' daily sacrifice!"

Acquaintances drop in. They have all the latest doings of the neighborhood at their fingers'
ends, and in a quarter of an hour have picked everyone of their most intimate friends to pieces,
nor do they leave them a shred of character.

Why do we feel such a relish in running down our friends and relations--the latter especially?
I quite enjoy it, though I should never do so outside my own family; thus my words never come
round to their ears. It is a necessity to relieve your feelings occasionally, and your family
is a good, safe receptacle.

For those who have a taste for speaking spitefully of their neighbors, I can suggest an amusing
game which was, I believe, started in Oxford. It is called Photograph whist, and is played
by four. Two or three dozen photographs are dealt round, and each person plays one, he who
plays the ugliest portrait taking the trick. The more hideous the photograph, the greater its
value as a trump! I have played the game with a man who always keeps his brother to the end,
and then brings him out with enormous success, the said brother never failing to overtrump
any other card in the pack! So you see it is a most amiable game altogether. You must only
be careful not to spread your doings abroad, or no one will present you with their portraits
ever again.

There is no sin so bad as being found out. You can say anything as long as you are not discovered
to be the originator. But if your words against a person ever happen to get round to him or
her (of course added to, and made almost unrecognizable in their progress) you make an enemy
for life. At least, this is so as a rule. Personally, I never care what people say against
me, so long as it is not true. But if they only keep to the truth, then it is aggravating.
You cannot deny it! You cannot "tremble with indignation, and fling the words back in their
faces," as the slandered heroine always does in the modern novel. You must simply submit to
the accusation.

A man I know was saying all round the place a little while ago, that my sisters and I "were
all good looking until we opened our mouths." Of course we heard of it, and have never forgiven
him for his "damning praise." But it is true. We always admit the fact. We know we show our
teeth too much when we laugh and talk. It was impossible to disclaim such a statement. If he
had said that we squinted, not a syllable would have been pronounced against him. Our eyes
are all exceptionally good, and would bear any detrimental remarks. But no, he kept to the
truth, and consequently has suffered ever since, for ways of revenge have been found which
were thoroughly successful. He is the ugliest man I ever met too, and should therefore have
been the last to offend.

In spite of the tea you are invariably given on such occasions, I think calls--formal calls--are
some of the most dreadful experiences Mrs. Grundy obliges you to undergo. I dislike them immensely,
and always get out of them if possible. I hope servants do not afterwards record the expression
of my countenance when they tell me their mistress is "out." It is radiant with an unholy joy!

These dreadful "at home" days, too, are so provoking. If you know a dozen people in a neighborhood,
you can only call on one at a time. They all have different days! This may seem slightly impossible;
but it is not indeed. While one lady's house is open to visitors on the first and third Wednesdays
in the month, another is on view on the second and fourth, and so on. Not two people agree!

Small talk, I think, is never so small as on these occasions. The poor weather is thorougly
worn out, a few mutual friends are picked to pieces, and of course there is a discussion about
dress. Sometimes you hear some sad account of the lady's second cousin's daughter, and you
have immediately to clothe your countenance in a sober garb. You must look grieved, and all
the while not caring one straw if the cousin's daughter has fits or gets insane, or anything
else she cares to do. You have never heard of her before, and therefore have not the slightest
interest in her eccentricities. I always feel so terribly inclined to laugh, just because I
ought to be doing the other thing.

People are so fond of talking about their troubles and griefs. The greater the sorrow, the
greater the discussion. They call up tears to their eyes, as if the subject were too sacred
to approach. But such tears are kept for the purpose. They come at their bidding, and fall
as naturally into their place as if the exhibition had been practiced beforehand. It is a positive
enjoyment to such people to detail their grievances.

With the lower classes, this, so to speak, gloating over your losses is even more apparent.
One comparatively well-to-do woman I know, seems to have a monopoly of funerals. There is always
some relation dead, and off she goes with an important air, draped from head to foot in black;
the picture of "loathed melancholy" outwardly; inwardly, glowing with pride; while all her
neighbors stand outside their doors, literally consumed with jealousy at her good fortune!
And then the terrible moment of her return, when you are obliged, whether you will or not,
to listen to the whole account, the description, the progress, and finally the interment of
"the corpse"! I hope, however dead I may be one day, that I shall never be described as "a
corpse"! There is something so horrible in the word, I always think. It makes you even more
dead than you are. It cuts you so absolutely off from the living.

Then there are those tiresome people who talk of nothing but their own families. The mother
from whom you hear all the ailments of her children if they are young, all the conquests of
her daughters if they are old. The sisters, to prevent the accusation of vanity, do not praise
themselves, but arrive at the same end by lauding up each other! These "mutual admiration"
families, as Wilkie Collins so aptly terms them, are families to be shunned.

You do not very often come across men on these "at home" days. If they are in the house, they
wisely avoid the drawing-room; and if you ever do meet one, he is sure to be a very milk-and-water
young man--one who delights in small talk and small matters; or else a curate.

I met one of the former class the other day. He was a dreadful specimen! A large head, a bland
smile, a vacant stare, and an enormous capacity for eating!

He came and sat by me when I first arrived; but when he made a slip of the tongue, and I brought
it to his notice kindly, but firmly, he went away and sulked for the rest of the afternoon.

He was talking about the recent muzzling order, and added, in quick little tones, "They are
talking about muzzling cats, I see."

"But cats do not bite," I objected.

"No," in mild surprise at my ignorance; "but they scratch."

"And do they intend to muzzle their paws?" I asked, smiling; adding a suggestion that two pairs
of goloshes apiece would answer the purpose admirably, besides having the combined advantage
of keeping the poor things from rheumatism!

But he did not smile. He saw nothing funny in what he had said. He thought I was laughing at
him, and so left me at the very first opportunity, and went and sat by himself at the tea table.
I could not very well see what he was doing, for his back was turned; howbeit it was a very
eloquent back--a back which appeared absorbed in bread and butter and cakes! He must have cleared
the table, I should think, before he had finished!

It certainly is not nice to be caught up suddenly and made to appear foolish. If you ever make
a mistake, the best way is to confess it at once, to tell the tale yourself. It sounds very
different from your lips than from those of your dearest friends. People laugh, but it is a
laugh that lacks the sting it would have if someone else told it at your expense.

I remember making a woeful slip when I was taken over a cotton mill. The man who was conducting
us pointed to what looked like a heap of dirty wool, and explained that it was the raw material.
"And is that just as it comes off the sheep's back?" I asked, unthinkingly. If a thunderbolt
had fallen in our midst the guide could not have been more astonished. "Cotton, Miss!" he said,
with grave surprise, "Cotton is a plant!" I inquired for no further information in that cotton
mill, but I told the story myself when I reached home, joining in the laughter that followed
as heartily as any of my audience.

Curates are more the rule than the exception at the five o'clock meal. Somehow, you always
connect the two. Afternoon tea without a curate sounds an anomaly, a something incomplete.

I have had great experience in curates. Ours is a large parish, and many clerical helps are
needed. Large, small, nice, objectionable, ugly, handsome--I have met specimens of each and
all, and have come to the conclusion that the last kind is the worst. How rarely do you meet
a good-looking man who thinks of anything but his appearance. It is strange, for the more lovely
a woman is the less apparently conscious she is of her beauty. At any rate, she does not go
about with an expression which seems to say, "I am that which is 'a joy forever'--admire me!"

The "pale young curate" type is perhaps the most general. This poor thing is so depressingly
shy--I say depressingly, because his shyness affects his company. You try to draw him out.
You ask question after question, and have to supply the answers yourself, only obtaining, by
way of reward, despairing upward glances, that are by no means an encouragement to proceed.

The most fatal effect of this shyness, however, lies in the fact that he dare not get up to
go! He sits toying with his hat, he picks up his umbrella three or four times, and lets it
drop again; finally, starting up with a rush in the middle of a conversation, he hurries out,
shaking hands all round with everyone but his hostess!

Would it be a very heinous breach of etiquette, if after an hour and a half of this curate's
company, one should suggest diffidently that it was time to go?

In strong contrast, there is the bold, dashing man, who only comes when he knows all the daughters
are at home, not so much because it gives him pleasure to see them, as because he would not
deprive them of the pleasure of talking to him. He has a faith in himself that removes mountains;
no lady's heart can beat regularly in his presence, according to his confident opinion.

So on the whole I do not think afternoon tea is so nice abroad as it is at home. It is not
so pleasant with many as with a chosen few. I am selfish, I am afraid, but I must confess I
enjoy mine most with the sole company of a roaring fire, a very easy chair, and a novel!

CHAPTER V.

ON DRESS.

I do not know who was the originator of the remark, but it has often been said, and is generally
admitted, that women do not dress to please the men, but to outdo one another.

I think just the same might be said of men in their turn. It is after all this spirit of competition
which helps to make the world go round. It is innate in man, and woman too, to always try to
outrun each other.

With clothes it is undoubtedly the case. The ancient Briton must have vied with his neighbor
in different designs with the woad plant. An unusual curve, an uncommon pattern, caused, I
daresay, as much excitement then as the fashions of our own day.

I often wonder how they will manage some points in the histories for the coming generation.
In most of these books you see illustrations and descriptions of the dress of the period, the
costume of the reign. How, oh historians! can you show forth those of Victorian times? Fifty
years have passed already! There were four seasons in each of those fifty years! Two hundred
illustrations must be shown in order to give a correct idea of the dress of the time! Perhaps
it might be more satisfactory to devote a volume exclusively to the subject.

If only we did not run on so quickly! We seem to get faster every year. In a very little time,
what we wear one day will be quite out of date the next! When we arrive at this climax, there
will be a sudden convulsion of nature, I should think, and we shall return once more to the
more simple garb of the aborigines. What an amount of trouble it would save us! No worrying
because the dressmaker has not sent our gowns home in time! No sending them back to be altered!
No dressmaker's or tailor's bills; or at the least, very small ones; for "woad" could not ruin
us very much.

So on the whole it would be well perhaps if this revolution did occur. Some such convulsion
as geologists declare has already frequently befallen our earth; and, as they prophesy, is
shortly coming again.

I do not like talking to these scientific men. They make you feel so infinitesimally small.
They go back such a long, long way. They make out that from the Creation (which by the way
they do not admit, only considering it another great change in the world springing from natural
causes), from the Creation until now, is the space of a moment on the great clock of time,
is a mere "parenthesis in eternity."

It is not nice to feel such a nonentity. What are our lives, our little lives in comparison?
We, who each consider ourselves the one person upon the earth, the hero or heroine in the great
drama: all the rest mere by-characters. We do not care to be considered of such little consequence;
only puppets appearing on the stage for one moment and taken off the next. We are like the
clergyman in the small island off the North of Scotland, who prayed for the inhabitants "of
Great Cumbray and Little Cumbray and the neighboring islands of Great Britain and Ireland!"
On our small piece of land, we yet consider ourselves the centre of the universe.

It is to be hoped if this revolution occurs, after all, that the climate will change likewise.
We should require something more besides blue paint in most of our English winters!

Perhaps we take too much thought for what we shall put on. They say that nothing but the prevailing
and forthcoming fashions fill the feminine mind. It is true sometimes, I daresay, and yet I
always agree with our immortal bard in thinking that "Self-love is not so vile a thing as self-neglect."

It is decidedly better to think too much than too little. It is a duty to your country and
your nation to look your best, no matter who is likely to see you.

Of course it can be overdone, e.g., the lady who insisted on her bonnet being trimmed on the
right because that was the side presented to the congregation! And she, I am afraid, is only
a type of many.

There is no reason why this should be the rule; yet nearly everyone seems to bring out their
new clothes on Sunday, and exhibit them in Church. I suppose it is because they meet so many
friends there, and with laudable unselfishness wish them all equally to enjoy the sight.

"What's the good of your going to church?" a man said to me once; "you only go to show off
your gown and look about to see who has a new bonnet and who has not! Now, when I go," he went
on in a superior way, "I don't notice a single thing anyone has on!"

