It will be helpful to recall the situation in the little capital at the time. With hundreds
of enraged frontiersmen "within a day's journey", with no force which could be trusted to oppose
them, the governor and his friends were in a state of panic. Even before Bacon's escape Ludwell
wrote: "We have all the reason in the world to suspect their designs are ruinous." And now,
with Bacon back at their head to tell them of his humiliation and report that he still had
no commission, Berkeley feared the worst. Then came the certain information that Bacon was
marching on the town.

Obviously the Assembly and the governor rushed Bacon's Laws through in a desperate, last minute
attempt to appease Bacon and his men. When the governor affixed his signature he must have
been almost within hearing distance of the tramp of armed men. And it is significant that both
the governor and the Assembly wished to have the laws read before Bacon's men "for their satisfaction."
That Bacon, who was in no humor to be appeased, refused to permit this, is no indication that
he did not heartily approve of the laws.

We do not know who drew up Bacon's Laws. It may have been Lawrence and Drummond, who introduced
them through some ally in the House. It may have been Bacon's neighbor, Thomas Blayton, whom
Colonel Edward Hill afterwards called "Bacon's great engine" in the Assembly. It may have been
James Minge, clerk of the Assembly, "another [of] Bacon's great friends in forming the laws."
More probably it was the committee on grievances. But whoever drew them up, whoever introduced
them, most of the credit goes to Bacon. They were aimed at the abuses he repeatedly denounced,
they were passed in an Assembly which Bacon had incited the people to demand and which Berkeley
declared overwhelmingly pro-Bacon, and signed under the threat of Bacon's armed forces.

Although the governor and the King both voided Bacon's Laws and the Assembly of February 1677
repealed them, they constitute a landmark in the development of self-government in Virginia.
They broadened the franchise by giving the right to vote to all freemen; they gave the voters
representation in the county courts in assessing taxes; they put an end to self-perpetuating
vestries; they fixed the fees of sheriffs, collectors, and other officials; they made it illegal
for sheriffs to serve more than one year at a time; no person could hold two of the offices
of sheriff, clerk of the court, surveyor, or escheator at the same time; members of the Council
were barred from sitting on the county courts.

It was long recognized in both England and America that liberty is grounded on the principle
that no man's money can be taken from him without his own consent. Yet local taxes in Virginia,
which often exceeded those voted by the Assembly, were assessed by the county courts made up
of the governor's appointees. The self-perpetuating vestries also had the right to tax, for
they levied the parish charges. Thus Bacon's Laws struck at an exceedingly dangerous abuse.
The use of fees to raise money without the consent of the voters was a source of bitter controversy
between the governors and the people for many decades to come, a controversy which culminated
in the celebrated case of the pistole fee which got Governor Dinwiddie into so much trouble.
The restricting of local officers to one office at a time struck a blow at Berkeley's system
of government by placemen. But the laws did not include an act to prohibit officeholders from
sitting in the Assembly. This would have gone to the root of the trouble, but it was too much
to expect the governor to assent to it even with Bacon and his infuriated men marching on Jamestown.
In fact, this step was taken only more than half a century later.

Bacon now began preparations for the Indian campaign. Riding from one county to another he
gathered armed bands, appointed their officers, and sent them off to the falls of the James.
Arms, ammunition, and stores were sent up the rivers in sloops. The well-to-do planters were
angered when their horses and corn were taken for the expedition, but at any show of resistance
they were threatened and intimidated. One of Bacon's men told John Mann, "with many fearful
oaths, as God damn his blood, sink him and rot him, he would ruin him."

It was late in July when Bacon drew up his army of seven hundred horse and six hundred foot.
Riding out before them, he made a brief address. He assured them of his loyalty to the King,
and that it was "the cries of his brethren's blood" that induced him to secure his commission.
He then took the oath of allegiance, and required the men to swear fidelity to him as their
general. Then they broke ranks for the night, expecting the next day to march.

At that moment word arrived that Berkeley was busy raising forces with which to attack them
in the rear. This forced Bacon to change all his plans. After the rebels had left for the frontier,
the Governor, realizing that the sentiment of the colony was overwhelmingly against him, at
first had made no attempt to resist him. But Philip Ludwell and Robert Beverley drew up a petition
in the name of the people of Gloucester, stating that Bacon had stripped them of arms and asking
the governor to protect them. Although "not five persons knew about it," Berkeley accepted
it as a call to action. "This petition is most willingly granted," he wrote. It was his duty
to protect the King's loyal subjects. Bacon's commission was illegal, he added, since it had
been extracted by force.

In a spirit of elation he rode over to Gloucester and sent out a call for the militia to assemble.
But when they learned that they were expected to fight against Bacon, the popular hero, they
demurred. "For Bacon at that time was so much the hope and darling of the people that the governor's
interest proved but weak and his friends so very few that he grew sick of the essay." As he
rode out before the troops he heard a murmur, "Bacon! Bacon! Bacon!" and saw them walk away.
Bitterly disappointed and wearied by his exertions, he fainted away in the saddle.

Upon receiving the news that the governor was trying to raise forces to oppose him, Bacon "causes
the drums to beat and trumpets to sound for calling his men together." Then he addressed them.
It was revenge which hurried the governor and his advisors on without regard to the people's
safety. They would rather see them murdered and their ghosts sent to join those of their slaughtered
friends, than have them disturb their trade with the Indians. So now they must use their swords
in their own defence. While they were sound at heart and not wearied they must descend to find
out why these men sought to destroy their lives who sought to preserve theirs.

At this there was a shout of "Amen! Amen!" They were all ready and would rather die on the
field of battle than be hanged like rogues or perish in the woods at the hands of the merciless
savages. So with muttered oaths they turned their faces toward Gloucester.

Hearing that Bacon's enraged men were pouring down upon them, Berkeley and his friends were
at a loss as to what to do. If they fell into his hands imprisonment was the mildest treatment
they could expect. It was Robert Beverley who suggested that they flee to Accomac, where they
would be safe beyond the waters of the Chesapeake Bay. Berkeley agreed, and asked Sir Henry
Chicheley to accompany him. Chicheley promised to join him later, but before he could get away
was captured. Berkeley, Beverley, and three others procured a small vessel, and reached the
Eastern Shore in safety. And for the next few days the bay was dotted with sails as one gentleman
after another fled with his wife and children, leaving his house, furniture, crops, horses,
and cattle to be plundered by Bacon's men.

This was the situation when Bacon returned from the frontier. With Berkeley in exile, and with
the Council dispersed, the colony had been left without a government. So Bacon had to become
dictator, assume the role of a Cromwell. He might well have become hopelessly confused had
he not had Lawrence and Drummond to advise him in every step in taking over the government.
Probably it was they who helped him draw up a manifesto, in which he dwelt on Berkeley's tyranny
and injustice. All men were witnesses of the corruption of the government, it stated; how men
of lowly estate, elevated to important posts, had lined their pockets at the public expense.
If he had attacked the so-called allied Indians, it was because they had committed "murder
upon murder" upon the settlers. Had the governor himself not supplied them with arms and ammunition
the frontier plantations would not now be deserted, the blood of their brothers spilled.

Bacon set up headquarters at Middle Plantation, the site of Williamsburg. Here he issued a
proclamation declaring Berkeley, Chicheley, Ludwell, Beverley, and others, traitors, and threatened
to confiscate their estates unless they surrendered within four days. Next he summoned all
the leading planters to a conference. When seventy had assembled, most of them because they
feared to stay away, some because they were dragged in by force, Bacon asked them to take three
oaths; that they would join with him against the Indians; that they would arrest anyone trying
to raise troops against him; and lastly, to oppose any English troops sent to Virginia until
Bacon could plead his case before the King. Many of those present demurred at the last oath,
but in the end no less than sixty-nine signed, among them such prominent men as Thomas Swan,
John Page, Philip Lightfoot, and Thomas Ballard.

It was shortly after this that Bacon had a conversation with a certain John Goode, of Henrico,
which is revealing of his fears, hopes, and plans for the future.

"There is a report that Sir William Berkeley hath sent to the King for 2000 redcoats, and I
do believe it may be true," said Bacon. "Tell me your opinion, may not 500 Virginians beat
them, we having the same advantages against them the Indians have against us?"

"I rather conceive 500 redcoats may either subject or ruin Virginia," Goode replied.

"You talk strangely. Are not we acquainted with the country, can lay ambushes, and take to
trees and put them by the use of their discipline, and are doubtless as good or better shots
than they."

"But they can accomplish what I have said without hazard ... by taking opportunities of landing
where there shall be no opposition, firing our houses and fences, destroying our stock and
preventing all trade...."

"There may be such prevention that they shall not be able to make any great progress in such
mischiefs. And the country and clime not agreeing with their constitutions, great mortality
will happen amongst them...."

"You see, sir, ... all the principal men in the country dislike your manner of proceedings.
They, you may be sure, will join with the redcoats."

To this Bacon replied that he would see to it that they did not.

"Sir, you speak as though you designed a total defection from his Majesty and our country."

"Why, have not many princes lost their dominions so?" he asked, smiling.

"They have been people as have been able to subsist without their princes. The poverty of Virginia
is such that the major part of the inhabitants can scarce supply their wants from hand to mouth,
and many there are besides who can hardly shift without supply one year, and you may be sure
that the people which so fondly follow you, when they come to feel the miserable wants of food
and raiment, will be in greater haste to leave you than they were to come after you. Besides,
here are many people in Virginia that receive considerable benefits ... in England, and many
which expect patrimonies...."

"For supply I know nothing the country will not be able to provide for itself withal in a little
time save ammunition and iron, and I believe the King of France or States of Holland would
either of them entertain a trade with us."

"Sir, our King is a great prince, and his amity is infinitely more valuable to them than any
advantage they could reap by Virginia.... Besides I conceive that your followers do not think
themselves engaged against the King's authority, but against the Indians."

"But I think otherwise, and am confident of it that it is the mind of this country, and of
Maryland, and Carolina also to cast off their governors ... and if we cannot prevail by arms
to make our conditions for peace, or obtain the privilege to elect our own governor, we may
retire to Roanoke."

"Sir, the prosecuting what you have discoursed will unavoidably produce utter ruin."

After a pause Bacon asked: "What should a gentleman engaged as I am do? You do as good as tell
me I must fly or hang for it."

"I conceive a sensible submission to the Assembly...."

So Goode left him to think over the various steps which had led him on to his present desperate
situation. But he did not take the advice to submit. That would mean deserting the people before
their wrongs had been righted, it would mean going back to the old despotism with all its injustices
and oppressions. He would rather take his chances of defeating the King's troops, confederating
with other colonies, and securing the aid of one or more of England's enemy nations. Desperate
though these plans seemed, it is possible that they might have succeeded, had not an untimely
death overtaken him. Holland, with bitter recollections of two recent wars with England, might
have welcomed a chance to break up the British Empire and regain her lucrative tobacco trade.
In its essential points it was the same plan which brought independence to America a century
later almost to a day.

While Bacon was dreaming of a complete break with England his father was pleading with the
King to pardon him. His only son had been unhappily prevailed upon by the importunity of his
distressed neighbors to lead them forth against the cruel and perfidious enemies, the Indians.
In this way he had "become obnoxious to the letter of the law."

With his petition Thomas Bacon presented an appeal from his son's followers called "The Virginians'
Plea." They were in danger day and night, especially those who lived dispersedly on the frontier,
from the murderous Indians, and many had been forced to desert their plantations. So they offered
their services to go out against them, "having still so much English blood in us ... as to
risk our lives in opposing them ... rather than to be sneakingly murdered in our beds.... Oh
Heavens! what a sad dilemma! We confess we have vented our discontents in complaints of other
grievances also, too great to be wholly smothered." But they had taken up arms not to relieve
themselves by the sword from them, since they thought it better to wait patiently until they
could appeal to the King, the governor, the Assembly, and Parliament.

But the period of patient waiting was now at an end. Bacon and his men were in possession of
all Virginia west of the Chesapeake Bay. The immediate question was how to defend it against
the governor and perhaps an expedition from England. For this the control of the water was
vital. The four great rivers gave easy access to the heart of the colony to an enemy fleet,
but were serious obstacles to moving troops by land. Without war vessels it would be necessary
for Bacon to divide his little army into numerous widely separated detachments in order to
defend hundreds of miles of shore.

Lying in the James River were three merchantmen, the Honour and Dorothy, the Rebecca, commanded
by Captain Larrimore, and another Rebecca, commanded by Captain Eveling. On August 1 Giles
Bland and William Carver, the latter "an able mariner and soldier," rowed out to Larrimore's
ship, and though fired on, captured her. They then drew her up at Jamestown and mounted several
guns on her from the fort. In the meanwhile Bacon, thinking Berkeley might be aboard Eveling's
vessel, demanded permission to search her. But Eveling refused, calling him a rebel and naming
him "Oliver Bacon", and before Larrimore's vessel could attack him, weighed anchor, slipped
down the river, and headed for England.

Though disappointed at Eveling's escape Bland and Carver, with the Rebecca, a small bark, and
a sloop, carrying a force of two hundred and fifty men, stationed themselves at the mouth of
the James, ready to seize and to press into service any incoming vessels. But they made the
mistake of moving across the bay and anchoring off Accomac to treat with the governor. Carver,
with 160 men, came ashore in a pinnace. Berkeley tried to persuade him to desert Bacon, but
he replied that "if he served the devil he would be true to his trust."

Berkeley ordered him to be gone within eight hours, but contrary winds sprang up so that he
had to delay. This Berkeley thought Carver was glad of, since it gave him an opportunity to
wean his soldiers away from him. But it proved a godsend for Berkeley. At about midnight a
message came to him from Captain Larrimore, explaining that he and his crew served under duress,
that there were only forty soldiers left on board the Rebecca, and that if he could send thirty
or forty gentlemen to the ship, he was sure they, with the help of the sailors, could retake her.

So Philip Ludwell with two boats went out under cover of darkness. As they approached the ship
the soldiers on deck hesitated to fire on them, thinking they were coming at Carver's invitation.
So they drew up alongside and clambered in through the gunroom ports. As they rushed up on
deck they were joined by the sailors with handspikes, and together they soon forced the soldiers
to surrender. In the meanwhile Carver too was approaching, and hearing the shouts, tried to
veer away. But Larrimore trained his guns on him and captured him and all his men. Coming on
board he "stormed, tore his hair off and cursed," as well he might for he knew that he would
soon be on the way to the gallows. This was a major victory, for it gave the governor control
of the water. From now on he was safe from any attempt to invade the Eastern Shore. On the
other hand, he could at will strike at any point up the great Virginia rivers.

While these events were taking place Bacon was leading an army through the woods and swamps
of upper Gloucester and Middlesex. He had good reason to believe that it was the Pamunkeys
who had made some recent incursions, and he was determined to ferret them out. But it proved
a difficult task. His men, tired of wandering here and there, soaked by drenching rains, and
half-starved, began to waver. But their dauntless young leader, after permitting many to return,
resumed the search with the rest.

They had gone but a few miles when they came upon an Indian village, protected on three sides
by swamps, and on the other by thickets and bushes. As the English charged the terrified Indians
fled. Many were shot down, many others captured. The queen of the Pamunkeys escaped, and wandered
through the woods for days, half starved. Bacon led his men back in triumph, bringing forty-five
prisoners, and stores of wampum, skins, furs, and English goods.

But having broken the power of the Pamunkeys, Bacon had now to meet forces raised by the governor.
Soon after the capture of the Rebecca Captain Gardiner joined the little fleet with the Adam
and Eve. So Berkeley, embarking 200 men on the ships and on six or seven sloops, crossed over
to the Western Shore where another hundred joined them. Then they sailed up the James to Jamestown.
Bacon's garrison, perhaps fearing the guns on the ships and thinking themselves outnumbered,
fled in the night without firing a shot.

Bacon received this news calmly, though Berkeley declared that "he swore one thousand of his
usual execrable oaths." At the time he had but one hundred and thirty-six tired and hungry
men with him. But he was determined to lead them to the attack. "Gentlemen and fellow soldiers,
how am I transported with gladness to find you thus unanimous, bold and daring, brave and gallant!"
he said. "You have the victory before you fight, the conquest before the battle.... I know
you have the prayers and well-wishes of all the people of Virginia, while the others are loaded
with their curses."

Of this they had abundant evidence, for as they trudged along the people brought out "fruits
and victuals," shouted encouragement, and denounced the governor. There was a brief stop in
New Kent while recruits came in, before they set off for James City County. There the youthful
leader delivered another address to his men: "If ever you have fought well and bravely, you
must do so now.... They call us rebels and traitors, but we will see whether their courage
is as great as their pretended loyalty. Come on, my hearts of gold, he who dies in the field
of battle dies in the bed of honor."

When Bacon arrived before Jamestown the place seemed impregnable. The narrow isthmus which
was the only approach to the town was defended by three heavy guns, the ships in the river
were ready to give support, the Back Creek and a series of marshes protected the north shore.
But Bacon was not discouraged. All night long his men labored to throw up a makeshift fortress
of "trees, bush and earth" facing the isthmus, as a protection should Berkeley's force sally
out. When the governor saw what was going on he ordered the ships and shallops to move up to
fire on the crude structure, while his soldiers let loose with repeated volleys. Thereupon
Bacon sent out parties of horse through the adjacent plantations to bring in the wives of some
of the governor's supporters, Elizabeth Page, Angelica Bray, Anna Ballard, Frances Thorpe and
even Elizabeth Bacon, wife of his cousin, Nathaniel Bacon, Senior. The terrified ladies were
placed upon the ramparts, where they would be in great peril should the firing be resumed,
and kept there until Bacon had completed the work and mounted his guns.

It was on September 15, that Berkeley's troops sallied out, formed in front of Bacon's fort,
and rushed forward, horse and foot "pressing very close upon one another's shoulders." They
made an excellent target, so that when the rebels opened on them, those in front threw down
their arms and fled. Had Bacon pressed close on their heels he might have taken the place,
and with it Berkeley, and all his men. But he held back and the opportunity was lost.

The governor was furious, and reviled his officers in "passionate terms." But it should have
been obvious to him that he could not trust men who fought under compulsion, many of them in
sympathy with Bacon. "The common soldiers mutinied, and the officers did not do their whole
duty to suppress them," he wrote afterwards. The officers urged on him the necessity of abandoning
the town. "One night having rode from guard to guard and from quarter to quarter all day long
to encourage the men, I went to bed," Berkeley said. "I was no sooner lain down but there came
three or four of the chief officers and told me I must presently rise and go to the ships for
the soldiers were all mutinying ... and that 200 or 300 men were landed at the back of us."
But when he put on his clothes, mounted his horse, and rode to the spot they had indicated,
he found the report false.

The next day the officers again urged the evacuation of the place. But the governor demurred,
"desiring them with all passionate earnestness to keep the town ... I told them I could neither
answer this to the King nor to any man that ever was a soldier, unless they gave under their
hands the necessity of my dishonorable quitting the place." This they immediately did and then
hurried him away to the fleet. That night guns were spiked, arms and stores were taken on board
the vessels, and the soldiers were embarked. Then silently the little fleet slipped down the river.

The next morning Bacon's men occupied the town. But now he was uncertain as to what he should
do with it. News had come that Giles Brent, a former supporter of Bacon who had gone over to
the governor, had raised an army in the northern counties and was marching south to attack
him. Brent, who was half Indian, was a sacrilegious man who was said to have drunk the devil's
health, at the same time firing his pistol "to give the devil a gun." His advance put Bacon
in a quandary. If he remained in Jamestown, he would be trapped between Brent on land and Berkeley's
fleet by water. If he deserted the town, Berkeley would return and occupy it. In the end, he,
Lawrence, Drummond, and the others decided to burn the town.

A few minutes later the village was a mass of flames. Lawrence applied the torch to his own
house, Drummond to his, and Bacon to the church. They "burnt five houses of mine," reported
Berkeley, "and twenty of other gentlemen." It was a desperate deed of determined men, a deed
which foreshadowed the burning of Norfolk by patriots in the American Revolution a century
later to prevent the British from using it as a base of operations.

Turning his back on the ruins of Jamestown, Bacon led his men first to Green Spring, then to
the site of Yorktown, and crossing the York River made his headquarters at the residence of
Colonel Augustine Warner, in Gloucester. But when word came that Brent's forces were approaching,
he wheeled his veterans into line, the "drums thundered out the march," and away they went
to meet him. But there was no battle. Brent's men, many of them probably indentured workers
who had been forced into service, had no wish to risk their lives for the governor. So, when
they heard that Bacon's force was on the march, they refused to fight, deserted their officers,
and returned home.

Now that once more Bacon was in possession of all Virginia except the Eastern Shore, his chief
concern was the redcoats, whose arrival was reported to be close at hand. Would the people
support him in opposing them? So he summoned the Gloucester trained bands and asked them to
take an oath to stand by him, fight the English troops, and if they found that they could not
defend themselves, their lives, and liberties, to desert the colony.

At this the Gloucester men balked. To fight the King's troops was to defy the might of England.
So they asked to be permitted to remain neutral. Deeply disappointed, Bacon reproved them as
the worst of sinners who were willing to be saved by others but would not do their part. Then
he dismissed them. When he was told that the Reverend James Wadding had tried to dissuade the
people from subscribing, he had him arrested. "It is your place to preach in church, not in
camps," he said.

Persuasion having failed, Bacon took sterner measures. Setting up a court-martial, he put some
of his opponents on trial. But though Berkeley scorned his proposal that they be exchanged
for Carver and Bland, none was executed save one deserter. But the trials served their purpose,
for when he summoned the militia again they all subscribed to his oath.

Bacon now turned his attention to the Eastern Shore. He realized that so long as Berkeley had
there a base of operations, from which he could launch sudden attacks, his position was insecure.
So he sent Captain George Farloe, "one of Cromwell's men," with forty soldiers across the bay
to surprise and capture Berkeley. But it was not easy to cross so large a body of water in
small boats, and Farloe was taken and hanged. Equally futile was a manifesto to the people
of the Eastern Shore urging them to rise against the governor.

Bacon gave orders that the estates of the governor and his friends be ransacked for the use
of his army, and Green Spring, King's Creek, Warner Hall, and other places, were denuded of
their cattle, sheep, hogs, Indian corn, and even blankets and clothing. But when the rough
soldiers began to plunder friend and foe alike Bacon called a halt. And instead of hanging
every enemy who fell into his hands in retaliation for Berkeley's executions, he released some
without bringing them to trial and pardoned others who had been condemned.

To see that his orders were carried out he now planned, probably on the advice of Lawrence
and Drummond, to appoint three committees, one "for settling the south side of James River,"
another to accompany the army "to inquire into the cause of all seizures," and the third to
manage the Indian war. To prevent raids by the enemy from the Eastern Shore Bacon ordered the
banks of the great rivers "to be guarded all along, to observe their motion, and as they moved
to follow them and prevent them from landing or having any provisions sent on board them."

But for the daring young commander the end was at hand. "Before he could arrive at the perfection
of his plans providence did that which no other hand durst do." While at his headquarters in
the house of Major Thomas Pate, in Gloucester, a few miles east of West Point, he became ill
of dysentery. Bacon's enemies accused him of being an atheist, but in his last hours he called
in Mr. Wadding to prepare his mind for death. "He died much dissatisfied in mind," we are told,
"inquiring ever and anon after the arrival of the frigates and soldiers from England, and asking
if the guards were strong about the house." He died October 26, 1676.

Bacon's enemies made much of the fact that he was so infected with lice that his shirts had
to be burned, and because of it spoke of his death as infamous. But the lice probably had nothing
to do with it, since typhus seems to have been almost unknown in early America. On the other
hand, dysentery was fairly common. Bacon's body has never been found. Thomas Mathews tells
us that Berkeley wished to hang it on a gibbet, but on exhuming his casket he found in it nothing
but stones. It was supposed that the faithful Lawrence, probably in the dark of night, had
buried the body in some secret place.

Berkeley gloated over his arch enemy's death. "His usual oath which he swore at least a thousand
times a day was 'God damn my blood,'" he wrote, "and God so infected his blood that it bred
lice in an incredible number, so that for twenty days he never washed his shirts but burned
them. To this God added the bloody flux, and an honest minister wrote this epitaph on him:

    'Bacon is dead, I am sorry at my heart
    That lice and flux should take the hangman's part'."

But while his enemies scoffed, Bacon's followers mourned. One of them expressed their sorrow
and despair in excellent verse:

    "Death why so cruel! What, no other way
    To manifest thy spleene, but thus to slay
    Our hopes of safety, liberty, our all
    Which, through thy tyranny, with him must fall
    To its late chaos? Had thy rigid force
    Been dealt by retail, and not thus in gross,
    Grief had been silent: Now we must complain
    Since thou, in him, hast more than thousand slain...."

What, we may ask, should be Bacon's place in history? Is he to be looked upon only as a rash
young man, whose ambition and insistence on having his own way brought disaster to the colony
and death to many brave men? Or should he be regarded as a martyr to the cause of liberty?
That Bacon was precipitate, that his judgement was faulty at times there can be no doubt. But
that he fought to put an end to Berkeley's "French despotism", to restore true representative
government in the colony, to break the power of the group of parasites who surrounded the governor,
to end unjust and excessive taxes, to make local government more democratic, is obvious. He
said so repeatedly. When Bacon and his men said they had enough English blood in their veins
not to be murdered in their beds by the Indians, they might have added that they had enough
English blood not to remain passive while a despotic old governor robbed them of their liberty.
When Bacon's enemies tried to cast opprobrium upon him by calling him the Oliver Cromwell of
Virginia, they did not realize that future generations would consider this an unintentional
tribute. Certainly he must have been a man of great magnetism, power of persuasion, and sincerity,
a man who had a cause to plead, who could arouse the devotion of so many thousands. But it
was true, as one sorrowing follower wrote, that

    "none shall dare his obsequies to sing
    In deserv'd measures, until time shall bring
    Truth crown'd with freedom, and from danger free,
    To sound his praises to posterity."

Bacon's death left the rebels without a leader. Berkeley stated that they would have made Bland
their general had he not been his prisoner. What was needed was a man with experience in both
military and governmental affairs. Had either Lawrence or Drummond been soldiers one or the
other might have been chosen, but apparently neither had ever borne arms. So the army elected
Joseph Ingram, who had been second in command under Bacon. Colonel Nicholas Spencer called
him "a debauched young man, who this year came to Virginia, and said to be a saddler in England."

Ingram never had the full confidence of his men. He seems to have had some ability as a general,
but he was unequal to the task of maintaining order and uniting the distracted colony. Berkeley
said that he continued the other officers, but that they "soon disagreed amongst themselves,
mistrusting each other."

His task was difficult. If he divided his forces to protect every exposed place along the river
banks they might be overwhelmed one by one. It might have been wise for him to carry out Bacon's
plan for a flying body of cavalry centered at West Point, within striking distance of the south
bank of the Rappahannock, both banks of the York, and the north bank of the James. This would
not have prevented night raids by Berkeley's men, but it would have protected the heart of
the colony from serious invasion. But Ingram was faced with the problem of feeding his men.
The rivers had always been the chief means of communication, but now barges or sloops bringing
grain or meat might be intercepted by the Adam and Eve, or the Rebecca, or the newly arrived
warship, the Concord. And there was a limit to what could be had by plundering the neighboring
plantations.

So Ingram adopted the plan of keeping his main force at the head of the York, and establishing
small garrisons at selected points. On the south side of the James he posted a "considerable
number" of resolute men in the residence of Major Arthur Allen, known today as Bacon's Castle.
At the governor's residence at Green Spring he left about one hundred men under Captain Drew,
who guarded the north bank of the James and made away with what was left of Berkeley's cattle,
sheep, and grain.

On the south side of the York Major Thomas Whaley, "a stout ignorant fellow", was in command
at King's Creek, the estate of Councillor Bacon, while lower down Captain Thomas Hansford,
a man of the highest character, was stationed at the site of Yorktown. Across the river another
group fortified Mr. William Howard's house, while in Westmoreland still another made their
headquarters at the residence of Colonel John Washington.

Hansford, Whaley, Gregory Wakelett, and other officers were men of ability, who could be trusted
to remain firm in the cause for which they took up arms. But after Bacon's death the rank and
file were filled up partly with slaves and indentured workers, who had little interest in either
the Indian war or in curbing the governor's despotism. The garrison at Colonel West's house,
near West Point, consisted of about 400 men, of whom eighty were Negroes, and many others were
servants. What they wanted was their freedom. But among them there must have been some of Bacon's
veterans, for they continued to fight well.

But now the policy of dividing the army into isolated garrisons began to bear bitter fruit.
In November, Major Robert Beverley crossed the bay with a strong force in a fleet of transports,
entered the York river, and surprised the men at the site of Yorktown. Hansford was captured.
A few days later Beverley returned to the York and after a brief encounter captured Major Edmund
Cheeseman and Captain Thomas Wilford.

Berkeley now began a series of executions marked by a brutality unsurpassed in American history.
One may excuse the tortures inflicted by the Indians because they were savages. There can be
no excuse for an Englishman of culture and gentle birth. Extremely avaricious, he had seen
the accumulation of a lifetime taken from him; proud of his ability as a ruler, he had seen
his government overthrown and had been forced to take refuge in an inaccessible corner of the
colony; revering, almost idolizing, the King, he must now explain to him his failures. So his
vindictiveness against the men he held responsible knew no bounds.

His first victim was Hansford. When he was condemned by Berkeley's council of war, he pleaded
that he might be shot like a soldier not hanged like a dog. "But you are not condemned as a
soldier, but as a rebel taken in arms," he was told. As he stood on the scaffold he spoke to
the crowd, protesting "that he died a loyal subject and a lover of his country."

When Major Cheeseman was brought in, Berkeley sternly asked him why he had joined the rebels.
But as he was about to reply his wife rushed in and told the governor that it was she who had
urged him to take up arms, and pleaded that she might be hanged in his place. Though the governor
knew that what she said "was near the truth," he spurned her with a vile insult. Yet he was
cheated of his revenge, for Cheeseman died in prison, and so escaped the ignominy of the gallows.

When Farloe was brought to trial he pointed out that he held a commission to serve under Bacon
signed by Berkeley himself. But this did not save him. The court told him he had been authorized
only to fight the Indians, not to take up arms against the governor. "Be silent, while sentence
is pronounced on you." The executions of Hansford, Carver, Farloe, Wilford, and John Johnson,
"a stirrer up of the people but no fighter," brought to an end the hangings on the Eastern Shore.

Word now reached Berkeley that Major Lawrence Smith had raised the loyal standard in Gloucester,
and had assembled a force so large that they could have "beaten all the rebels in the country
only with their axes and hoes." In nearby Middlesex another large force was ready to cooperate
with him. This seemed the opportunity to crush the rebellion. So the governor embarked 100
men on four ships and several sloops and entered the York river to close in on Ingram from
the south while the others attacked from the north and east. But the plan failed miserably.

