     "The public disclosure of these differences took most people by
     surprise, and was notoriously the subject of comments, by no means
     complimentary to Mr. Dickens himself, as regarded the taste of this
     proceeding. On June 17th, however, Bradbury and Evans learnt from a
     common friend, that Mr. Dickens had resolved to break off his
     connection with them, because this statement was not printed in the
     number of Punch published the day preceding--in other words,
     because it did not occur to Bradbury and Evans to exceed their
     legitimate functions as proprietors and publishers, and to require
     the insertion of statements on a domestic and painful subject in
     the inappropriate columns of a comic miscellany. No previous
     request for the insertion of this statement had been made either to
     Bradbury and Evans, or to the editor of Punch, and the grievance
     of Mr. Dickens substantially amounted to this, that Bradbury and
     Evans did not take upon themselves, unsolicited, to gratify an
     eccentric wish by a preposterous action.... Bradbury and Evans
     replied that they did not, and could not, believe that this was the
     sole cause of Mr. Dickens's altered feeling towards them; but they
     were assured that it was the sole cause, and that Mr. Dickens
     desired to bear testimony to their integrity and zeal as his
     publishers, but that his resolution was formed, and nothing could
     alter it."

So this foolish estrangement went on until, years afterwards, Clarkson Stanfield on his death-bed
besought Dickens to resume his friendship with the man with whom, after all, he had had no
cause of quarrel. So Dickens sent to Lemon (whom he doubtless suspected of having written the
publishers' damaging defence just quoted) a kindly letter when "Uncle Mark" appeared as Falstaff
before the public, and when Stanfield was buried the two men clasped hands over his open grave;
and later on, when Dickens died, some of the most touching and beautiful verses that ever appeared
in Punch were devoted to his memory.

In 1850 appeared James Hannay, Mr. Sutherland Edwards' associate in "Pasquin," and founder
(I am informed by his cousin, Mr. J. L. Hannay, the police magistrate) of "The Puppet Show."
It was when he was approached by the proprietors of this periodical (the Vizetelly brothers),
and was asked to write for it as well--"Something in the manner of Sterne, with a dash of Swift"--he
replied that in that case his remuneration would have to be "Something in the manner of Rothschild,
with a dash of Baring." Hannay was at that time on the "Morning Chronicle," after having, like
Jerrold and Stanfield, given a trial to the Royal Navy and found it wanting. He literally fought
his way into Punch, just as Shirley Brooks did a few years subsequently, and was assisted from
within by the kindly appreciation of Thackeray. Perhaps Jerrold was reconciled to the accession
in view of Hannay having started "The Puppet Show" with the main object of violently assaulting
his old friend and chum Mr. Edwards, who, in spite of all journalistic amenities, remained
his chum, for these assaults were only attacks pour rire.

For a time Hannay's pen was of the utmost value to Punch. His earliest contributions were notes
on a tour in Scotland--his native country--he describing himself as "The Scotchman who went
back again." But he did not remain very long with Punch; besides being a wit, he was a scholar
with a very serious side to his character, and the amusement of the public became, in his eyes,
less important than their instruction. He was only twenty-three when he produced his first
novel of "Singleton Fontenoy, R.N.," which so pleased Carlyle that it induced the old philosopher
to invite him to his house. Then he turned lecturer on literary subjects, became "Quarterly"
reviewer, married a daughter of Kenny Meadows, took to diplomacy in a small way, and was appointed
Her Majesty's Consul at Barcelona, where he died in 1873. Mr. Holman Hunt, one of the band
of wits and youthful geniuses of whom Hannay was the wittiest of all, writes to me of him as
"a contributor of great power who might with self-control have gained a great position--a friend
who used to come on our nocturnal boating expeditions up the river. He was one of the dear
crew who in different capacities and with varied powers once manned life's larger boat with me."

Sir John Tenniel contributed a few pieces in 1851 (p. 56, Vol. XX.) and later, but they were
of little importance. Cuthbert Bede was as much a writer as a draughtsman, as he showed by
his parody of the "High-mettled Racer." Then came another of Punch's stars of the first magnitude,
Shirley Brooks.

FOOTNOTES:

[42] Mark Lemon.

[43] The author here quotes in a footnote a few lines from the poem, beginning

  "O, darling room, my heart's delight"----

and then observes: "The whole of this Poem (!!!) is worth reading, in order to see to what
depths of silliness the human intellect can descend."

Shirley Brooks--he dropped his first names of Charles William--was perhaps the most brilliant
and useful all-round man who ever wrote for Punch. His rapidity was extraordinary. The clergyman
who boasted that he could write a sermon in an hour "and think nothing of it" courted the reply
that probably the congregation thought nothing of it either. But the single hour in which Brooks
began and finished the composition of his "Rime of the Ancient Alderman" (1855)--a poem of
fifty stanzas, that fills nine pages in his volume of selected work--brought him criticism
of a different sort. His facility was not less astonishing, and I have heard repeated some
of his flashes of epigram enclosed in polished verse which it would be hard to believe were
extempore but for the circumstances under which they were inspired. Indeed, his fancy, like
himself, was a diamond of great fire and high polish, and rich by bounteous favour of nature.
He was as witty as Jerrold without the sting; but, when he chose, he could strike as hard,
and, as he himself once said, never care "a horse's mamma."

He had been articled to a solicitor, but he preferred the comic muse, and Punch on "Joe Miller"
was more to him than Coke upon Littleton. His humorous prose and graceful witty verse were
cast upon the waters of the comic press. He was thirty-two before he had his best chance of
making himself widely known in the line he especially loved. This was in 1847, when he began
to write for the "Man in the Moon," which was just started under the editorship of two Punch
men--Albert Smith and Angus B. Reach. For the latter he had a close and tender friendship.
When Reach fell ill, Brooks did all his journalistic work for months, and would touch not a
penny of the money; as the cheques arrived, they were immediately forwarded for the benefit
of the sufferer. He was his colleague on the "Morning Chronicle," for which Brooks was gallery-reporter
in the House of Commons for five sessions as well as leader-writer, and when Reach was sent
through France on an expedition of inquiry into the condition of the agricultural classes,
Brooks was despatched through South Russia, Asia Minor, and Egypt. And in 1852 he wrote in
conjunction with him "A Story with a Vengeance," which was partly illustrated by Charles Keene;
but the artist was at that time so little known that it was not considered worth the publisher's
while to mention his name.

Under Reach's editorship, then, he appeared in the "Man in the Moon," and the next year (1848)
in Hannay's "Puppet Show." It was for the pages of the former (November, 1847) that Brooks
wrote one of the severest assaults on Punch ever published--the more severe for the excellence
of its quality. It was entitled "Our Flight with Punch" (in imitation of Tom Taylor's "Flight
with Russell" and his far less happy "Flight with Louis Philippe," in Punch, August and October,
1847, Volume XIII.), in which the "Man in the Moon" was supposed to fly, genie-like, with Punch
over the land which at one time he ruled with his wit; and the "Dreary Hunchback," as he was
apostrophised, was caustically besought to awake and stem the tide of his supposed degeneration.
It is hardly surprising that this poem, clever as it is, was not reprinted in the posthumous
collection of the writer's poems.

But not immediately did he conquer his position. There were still years to wait, which were
occasionally occupied with a pleasing attack on Punch, one of which, it is said, drew from
Leech his picture of two little "snobs" in a low coffee-house. "Punch is very dummy and slow
this week, I think," says the first disreputable-looking "fast man." "So do I," replies the
other. "It's their own fault, too, for I sent 'em some dem'd funny articles, which the humbugs
sent me back." "That's just the way they served me," resumes his friend--"the great fools!"
But at last, at the end of 1851, his first contribution to Punch was received, and he was soon
invited to join the Staff. He was not long in making a mark with "Miss Violet," but it was
not among his strongest contributions. Nevertheless, "Epicurus Rotundus" was now a made man
on the highway to success.

It was his charm and grace as much as his vigour that compelled the admiration of his fellows
and their admission that he was the most valuable accession that the Staff had ever received.
At the dinner given to Thackeray in 1856, Jerrold, in proposing Brooks's health, pronounced
him "the most rising journalist of the day," and Mark Lemon declared openly that "Shirley's
pen is the gracefullest in London." It was, in fact, the general opinion at the time that his
verses combined much of the technical merit of Pope's with the keen sarcasm of Swift; and of
such verse he contributed not fewer than six hundred pieces in the course of his Punch career.
One of their merits was the unexpected spontaneity of their humour--the faculty that is distinctive
of some of the best of his mots, such as that when looking at Edmund Yates's book-shelves which
caused him to pause before one of the volumes and read off "Homer's Iliad," and murmur, "Homer's--Yes--that
is the best." On one occasion he, with Mr. George Chester (my informant), was on a visit to
Mark Lemon at Crawley, and at the breakfast-table a discussion arose between the two men upon
noses, their shapes and characteristics. Turning kindly to one of his host's little daughters,
and looking at her delicate little nez retroussé, he said, "When they were looking about for
a nose for you, my dear, they chose the first that turned up"--a joke often since repeated
and well-nigh worked to death.

The contribution by which he will certainly be best and most gratefully remembered is his "Essence
of Parliament"--a work which was entirely his own conception, and which was continued for twenty
years from week to week while Parliament was sitting, with cleverness, refinement, truth, and
humour that are invaluable to the historian and delightful to the general reader. For this
work his experience and training as the "Chronicle" reporter were invaluable to him. Brooks
was essentially a politician in feeling, full of suggestion--apt, happy, and ingenious--and
yet could turn with ease and equal facility to social, literary, poetical, or art-critical
work, to his daily "leader" or weekly article for the "Illustrated London News." He was in
his time the cartoon suggestor-in-chief, and towards the end of Mark Lemon's life rendered
great assistance in the editorship of the paper; although Percival Leigh was the recognised
locum tenens. Lemon had been dead but just a week when Brooks wrote (June 1st, 1870) from the
Punch office to a friend:--

     "Yesterday I accepted the Editorship of Punch. It will be a tie,
     and give me trouble, but I seem to have been generally expected to
     take the situation, and it is not good to disappoint General
     Expectations, as he is a stern officer. Wish me good fortune--but I
     know you do.

     "I was offered a seat on a four-horse coach, for the Derby,
     alongside M. Gustave Doré. But I am here. Who says I have no
     self-denial?"

--which shows that he was already in harness.

In his editorship he took the utmost pride, and he would defend his paper with spirit. When
an ill-mannered acquaintance told him "that of all the London papers he considered Punch the
dullest," Brooks replied, "I wonder you ever read it." "I don't," said the other. "So I thought,"
retorted the Editor, "by your foolish remark."

Shirley Brooks fell ill with a complication of disorders, and Mr. Burnand did him the same
service on Punch that he had done for Lemon, and that Leigh did for himself and Tom Taylor.
When he was near his end, and a newspaper acquaintance called persistently to inquire how he
was progressing, "Tell him," said the sick man, with a shrewd smile about his lips, "that he
shall have his 'par' in good time." He was engaged in writing "Election Epigrams" and "The
Situation" on his death-bed; and died in February, 1874, before their publication. He was buried
in the cemetery of Kensal Green, close to where Thackeray lay by Leech, and within whose walls,
though at some distance apart, Doyle was to sleep, and Henry Mayhew.

Neither Robert nor William Brough ever drew for Punch, but it is the belief of their brother,
Mr. Lionel Brough, that they were both at one time literary contributors. Of this, however,
I have no record. William was brother-in-law to Mark Lemon, but the two men were not on the
best of terms. Robert, a provincial Jerrold, with all Douglas's power of sarcasm and some of
his genius, had started the "Liverpool Lion," and was a brilliant comic draughtsman. It was
the success of his play, "The Enchanted Isle," that brought him to London, where he wrote burlesques
and so forth; but he will be remembered for his clever illustrations to most of Punch's rivals
of his time, as well as his creation of "Billie Barlow"--the "Ally Sloper" of the day; and
it was not to Punch's advantage that he did not enlist Brough's humorous talent.

In the year 1854--or it may have been a few months later--Mr. W. Beatty Kingston made an early
appearance with a cockney ballad on the subject of the admission of female searchers to the
penetralia of H.M. Record Office, of which at that time he was a "flickering light" at £100
a year. Soon he took service under the Hapsburgs, and left England afterwards for nearly a
quarter of a century. In 1883 he resumed comic operations on the invitation of Mr. Burnand,
and continued, until June, 1887, to contribute a good deal of verse, illustrated by Mr. Sambourne
and Mr. Furniss. Many of these pieces have since been republished in "My Hansom Lays;" while
of those which have since appeared some, such as "A Triplet" and "The Wizard's Curse," have
passed into the category of "stock recitations."

Then F. I. Scudamore, still remembered for his vers de société, was a passing contributor.
But in 1855 he joined "The Comic Times," with other of old Punch outsiders, and then obtained
an appointment in the Government Telegraphs, and, with a Companionship of the Bath, the superintendence
of the Constantinople Post Office.

Mr. Ashby-Sterry's name belongs to the following year, but he appeared solely as a draughtsman;
his literary connection, which began twenty-four years later, will be spoken of in its proper
place. Michael John Barry was another who at this time (1857) shed no little brilliancy on
Punch; and to him is now credited the admirable "Peccavi" despatch--perhaps the most finished
and pointed that ever appeared in Punch's pages, and certainly one of the most highly appreciated
and most loudly applauded:--

  "'Peccavi! I've Scinde,' said Lord Ellen[44] so proud--
  Dalhousie, more modest, said 'Vovi, I've Oude!'"

This brilliant couplet, according to the "Times," is said to have been contended for by "both
Punch and Thomas Hood;" and it never was finally decided which of the two great humorists followed
the other. Their claims, indeed, are not irreconcilable. Latterly, the credit has been claimed,
with some show of authority, for Barry, who was generally regarded in his day as one of Jerrold's
peers in wit. It is curious to observe that in the House of Commons debate on the Candahar
question, Mr. P. J. Smyth was reported to have referred to "the unexampled brevity of the General's
despatch after he had won his great victory on the Indus," in the quaint belief that the first
half-line of the epigram was Lord Ellenborough's actual report.

The Very Rev. Reynolds Hole, Dean of Rochester, always a spoilt child of Punch's, and the intimate
friend of Leech, was more of a Punch man than most contributors, as he was one of the very
few outsiders who were ever entertained at the Wednesday Dinner.[45] "Some six-and-thirty years
ago," he informed me, "Mark Lemon wrote to me, 'Punch is proud of such a contributor,' and
I have his letter. I wrote a few short paragraphs about Oxford, and some longer articles in
verse, entitled 'The Sportsman's Dream' and 'My Butler.' Leech told me, 'You are an honorary
member of our weekly meetings, and will be always welcome.'" His charming book, "A Little Tour
in Ireland," written "by an Oxonian," had the advantage of Leech's pencil, and by his friendship
with that artist, as well as with Thackeray and others of the Staff, he was for a time identified
in some measure with Punch itself, besides obtaining recognition as the beau-ideal of "the
genial, jolly parson." That he did not become a regular contributor to the paper was due, it
is believed, to a subsequent misunderstanding.

In "Jack Easel," the writer of a number of delightful letters upon artistic and social topics
at home and abroad, it is difficult to recognise Mr. Charles L. Eastlake, the able Keeper of
the National Gallery. From 1859 to the autumn of 1862 Mr. Eastlake contributed eight-and-twenty
articles of importance, one of them in verse, and the majority headed "Our Roving Correspondent."
"Jack Easel on the Continent" and "The Royal Academy Exhibition" were the subjects of many
of them, and their note was lively enough to cause his papers to be looked forward to by Punch's
readers.

Mr. Francis Cowley Burnand, when he first appeared in Punch, in 1863, was no mere recruit;
he was a proved humorist, though of short standing, and his début was an astonishing success.
His début, that is to say, as a Punch writer, for eight years previously he had sent up from
Cambridge a couple of drawings which Leech had made artistically suitable for publication.

Mr. Burnand was born in 1837--having been too gallant, it was said, to come into the world
before his Queen had ascended the throne, and too loyal and zealous to delay his appearance
after she had taken her place. He was sent to Eton, where, however, he did not care much for
football, being, as he expressed it, "more shinned against than shinning;" and thence, at the
age of seventeen, he went into Trinity College, Cambridge. In three years he had graduated
and had founded the still flourishing "A.D.C.;" at the same time, he determined to enter the
Church. He placed himself under the Rev. H. P. (afterwards Canon) Liddon; but soon left for
the seminary of the Oblates of St. Charles, at Bayswater, the head of which was Dr. (Cardinal)
Manning. While there his passion for playwriting was too strong to be resisted, and before
he left Dr. Manning confessed that he feared his young friend had no "vocation," i.e. for the
ecclesiastical state. Mr. Burnand, taking a wider view of the term, entirely acquiesced with
Dr. Manning, and added rather timidly that he "thought he had a vocation for the stage." Dr.
Manning raised his eyebrows, wrinkled his forehead, sniffed, and then said: "A 'vocation' concerns
the spiritual welfare. You cannot speak of 'going on the stage' as a 'vocation.' You might
as well call 'being a cobbler' a 'vocation.'" "Well, yes, Dr. Manning," rejoined Mr. Burnand
very nervously; "but--if I were a cobbler I should still have the cure of soles."

An unsuccessful trial of the stage at Edinburgh, and a call to the Bar in 1862, indirectly
shaped Mr. Burnand's career, and, throwing him into playwriting and humorous journalism, led
him quickly into a talented circle. With Mr. W. S. Gilbert, H. J. Byron, Matt Morgan, Jeff
Prowse, and others, Mr. Burnand helped to strengthen Tom Hood's additional staff of "Fun,"
then newly established, under the proprietorship of a looking-glass maker, named Maclean--whom,
by reason of his expansive smile and shining teeth, Byron used to call "Maclean teeth." Mr.
Burnand's fresh and bright productions sparkled on the pages and caught the eye of Mark Lemon;
but it was an unusually happy and original idea that was to bring the two men closely together.
Mr. Burnand had conceived a series of burlesque stories, satirising the sensational style of
the day, to be accompanied by an equally burlesque imitation of the illustrations that were
to be seen in publications such as the "London Journal." To his own daughter, as "one of his
oldest friends," Mr. Burnand once confided the following facts and circumstances for publication:--

     "The astute proprietor of 'Fun,' in which I had achieved some
     success, observed that 'Mokeanna' wouldn't do. I am not sure but
     that he was right; but if he had been a literary editor he would
     have seen the idea in a rough copy, and would have suggested
     improvement. This good he did me, however--I read it to a friend,
     who thought some of it good and most of it the contrary, and so, in
     a temper, I burnt the entire manuscript, and, being quite sure of
     the humour of the idea, commenced rewriting it. Then I communicated
     with Mark Lemon; he jumped at the idea--determined to say nothing
     to anybody, except those who had to illustrate it, and the first
     number of 'Mokeanna' appeared on February 21st, 1863, with an
     illustration by Sir John Gilbert, burlesquing his own style, whilst
     the page in Punch was, in arrangement, a facsimile of the 'London
     Journal.' The proprietors rushed down to the office, terrified with
     the thought that, by accident, the 'London Journal' had been sewn
     up with Punch, and it took a lot of explanation in Mark Lemon's
     best manner to make them see the joke in its right light. The
     success of the experiment was immediate. Thackeray was supposed to
     have perpetrated the burlesque imitation, but Thackeray knew
     nothing whatever about it, though, as I have since learnt, he was
     greatly tickled by it and, subsequently, was personally most kind
     to the 'New Boy,' as he called me, on the Punch Staff."

The illusion was complete, and the fun most apt and full of spirit. The various artists ("Phiz,"
Charles Keene, Mr. du Maurier, and Sir John Millais) each drew a picture for it, in every case
burlesquing his own style and trotting out his peculiarities. The public laughed heartily--first,
at itself for having been deceived by the verisimilitude to the "London Journal," and then
at the work upon its merits; and "Mokeanna, or the White Witness" became the talk of the hour,
and one of the good things of Punch. Charles Dickens was among those who most admired the execution
of the jeu d'esprit, and he displayed considerable interest in the writer.

In due time Mr. Burnand was called to the Table. "My first appearance," he tells me, "was at
the Inn at Dulwich where Punch sometimes dined in the summer in those days. Thackeray drove
there, and left early. He had come on purpose to be present on this occasion, and before quitting
the room he paused, placed his hand on my shoulder, and said, 'Gentlemen, I congratulate you
on the "New Boy!"' I felt, and probably looked, very hot and uncomfortably proud; and then
he shook me warmly by the hand."

Mr. Burnand's next success--a phenomenal success, too, on which his reputation as a humorist
will stand unshaken--was "Happy Thoughts." For popularity and for immediate advantage to the
paper this clever series, with its exquisite fooling and keen appreciation of humour, was second
only to the "Caudle Curtain Lectures," and among the greatest hits that Punch has ever made.
It has since been admirably translated into French by M. Aurelien de Courson under the title
of "Fridoline!"--"happy thought!" being, however, somewhat inadequately rendered "ingénieuse
pensée!" Then followed his imitations of popular writers--including "Strapmore," by "Weeder,"
and "One-and-three," by "Fictor Nogo"--"Happy Thought Hall," with illustrations by himself,
"More Happy Thoughts," "Out of Town," and many others, which are still to be found on the bookstalls.
His, too, was the song "His 'Art was true to Poll," which achieved so great a success when
Mrs. John Wood introduced it into "My Milliner's Bill" many years after it first appeared in Punch.

And in addition to the mass of work he has contributed to Punch, there are "The Incompleat
Angler," "The New History of Sandford and Merton," "The Real Adventures of Robinson Crusoe,"
more than a hundred burlesques--beginning with his exceedingly popular perversion of Jerrold's
"Black-Eyed Susan"--and a number of comedies and adaptations: a total rivalling, and in some
cases surpassing, the industry of the most hard-working of his predecessors in Punch's editorial
chair. Moreover, he has been a lecturer with "realistic notions," as he proved on the occasion
when he was giving a public reading dealing with a yachting cruise, and, as he stood behind
his reading-desk, stooped and rose with a regular maritime motion, relieved by an occasional
roll, until the more susceptible among his audience began seriously to ask themselves if they
were good enough sailors to sit out the reading to its ground-swell, breezy end.

In August, 1880, after the death of Tom Taylor, Mr. Burnand, who had been acting-editor in
his last illness, was called upon to take up the task of restoring to Punch its ancient reputation
for liveliness and fun, and with a dinner to every contributor, outside as well as Staff, the
proprietors inaugurated the new era. Mr. Burnand at once made great changes among the outside
contributors, and introduced new blood upon the Staff. For himself, he showed his chief strength
as a punster of extraordinary ability; probably no one before him ever tied so many and such
elaborate knots in his mother-tongue as he. "Mr. Burnand's puns are generally good, and sometimes
very good," said a critic in the "Spectator;" "but they are really too plentiful.... When it
comes to be a question of a volume of four hundred pages, with an average of ten puns to a
page, the reader is likely to suffer from an indigestion ... a cake that is all plums is likely
to lie rather heavily on the person who eats it." But he was constrained to admit artistic
merit in the humour of such passages as this: "There was a dead pause in the room. How long
it had been there it was impossible to say, for it was only at this minute that the three became
aware of it. And the Bishop sniffed uncomfortably, as though there was something wrong with
the drainage."

But there was something of greater import brought in by Mr. Burnand's editorship than the literary
tone. It was tolerance, political and religious, and wider sympathy than had lately been the
case. The heavy political partisanship of Tom Taylor gave way to the more beneficent neutrality
of Mr. Burnand--a personal neutrality, at least, even though Whig proclivities still coloured
the cartoons to a certain, yet not unreasonable degree. And a larger religious tolerance and
warmer magnanimity developed in Punch, such as comes chiefly from quarters where oppression
has been known.

So he who has been called "the Commandant of the Household Brigade of British Mirth" has marched
gaily along in Punch's service for more than thirty years. Prodigal of his jokes, he sometimes
makes the best of them outside the pages of his paper. Thus in November, 1893, he wrote to
the press in contradiction of the statement made by a police-court prisoner named Burnand,
that he was the brother of the editor of Punch: "I beg to say that I have no brother, and never
had any brother. I have two half-brothers (this man is neither of them), but two half-brothers
don't make one whole brother." And people chuckled as the little joke was copied from one paper
to another all over the English-speaking world, and applauded the excellent quaintness of Punch's
Aristophanes. So, when a fictitious dinner of the Punch Staff at Lord Rothschild's was reported
in the press, Mr. Burnand briefly dismissed the matter with the remark that the only dish was--canard.

Again, in the autumn of 1894, when he fell ill, alarming reports were spread. One of his colleagues
on the Staff received a request for a column obituary notice of the dying man from the editor
of a leading daily newspaper. But Mr. Burnand was much better, and was greatly cheered on learning
the particulars. "Really," he said, "that's more than I expected. A column! Why, that's what
they gave to Nelson and the Duke of York!"

Mr. J. Priestman Atkinson's literary achievements in Punch are spoken of in the chapter where
"Dumb Crambo's" pictorial contributions are treated. From August, 1877, to October, 1880, they
are frequent, and consist for the most part of fanciful verse accompanied by cuts from the
same hand. There is a charming prose story, however, in the Pocket-Book for 1879, seasonably
entitled "The Invention of Roast Goose." But with Mr. Burnand's editorship Mr. Atkinson's energies
were exclusively concentrated on humorous sketches and "Dumb Crambo" eccentricities.

In 1864 Mr. John Hollingshead--"Practical John"--was dramatic critic of the "Daily News." His
notices attracted the attention of Shirley Brooks, with the result that he was invited to contribute
to Punch. But it was in 1881 that he was taken on the salaried outside Staff, writing for the
paper for several years, chiefly on the subject of social reform. He is the inventor, to whom
Londoners should be grateful, of "Mud-Salad Market" and the "Duke of Mudford;" and the "Gates
of Gloomsbury," "The Seldom-at-Home Secretary," and "The Top of the Gaymarket," are also his.
It was with his pen that Punch attacked so lustily our licensing system--or want of system;
and from him, too, came the burlesque "Schopenhauer Ballads," and other contributions, which,
many of them, have been reprinted in "Footlights," "Plain English," and "Niagara Spray."

In the same year came Mr. R. F. Sketchley, late Librarian of the Dyce and Forster collection
in the South Kensington Museum, who was destined to become one of Punch's Staff officers. "I
find," he writes, "that I became a contributor to Punch in 1864. At the beginning of 1868 I
was honoured with an invitation from Mark Lemon to join the Table. I served also under his
successors--Shirley Brooks, Tom Taylor, and Burnand; and finally retired of my own accord in
1880. I have seen it stated that in an illness of Shirley Brooks I did some of the 'Essence
of Parliament.' If I had been called on to take up the pen of that most brilliant man of letters,
I should have been in despair. All I did was to turn the Queen's Speech on the opening of Parliament
into verse.

"I was never a prominent member of the Staff, but I am, and always shall be, proud of having
been connected with Punch. I wrote both prose and verse--more of the former than the latter--and
my contributions ranged in extent from a column down to a single line. My subjects were generally
'topical,' sometimes 'imaginary,' and the verse included a good many parodies." Mr. Sketchley,
it should be observed, is one of the few members of the inside Staff--at least, within the
last forty years--who have ever resigned their appointments, Richard Doyle, Mr. Henry Silver,
and Mr. Harry Furniss being the others. His strong point was prose parody, the best, perhaps,
being the quaint quasi-Gulliverian sketch called "A Fortnight in Sparsandria," which he contributed
to Punch's Pocket-Book. Sober in judgment and wise in counsel, he was greatly missed when his
genial companionship was lost to Punch's Knights of the Round Table.

Passing over Mr. W. S. Gilbert's connection with the paper--which is described in the section
devoted to artistic contributors--we find another humorist, equally distinguished, who identified
himself with the paper the same year, Charles F. Browne, better known as "Artemus Ward." He
had arrived in England early in the year, and soon after his arrival he was invited by Mark
Lemon to contribute. Ward was at that time in failing health, and, according to his secretary
and manager Mr. Kingston, two or three of the papers produced in accordance with the understanding
that was entered into were written with painful effort--the reason, no doubt, why so little
of his usually rollicking humour is to be found in them. Nowadays many Americans profess to
regard Punch with a sort of scornful amusement, and "Life," with an assumption of lofty disdain,
is for ever sneering at it as a survival of the unfittest; and the same line is taken in England
by New Journalists and Newer Critics. Not that the New American Journalist was unknown in Ward's
day. He had already declared that "Shakespeare wrote good plase, but he wouldn't have succeeded
as the Washington correspondent of a New York daily paper. He lacked the reckisit fancy and
imagination." Anyhow, he did not live so near to the fin de siècle; nor was he ashamed to own
that for years it had been his pet ambition to write for the "London Charivari." Unhappily,
its realisation came too late to permit him to do justice to his talent and his humour; and
he himself was only too conscious of his sad shortcoming, or, rather, of his failing powers.
Only eight papers had come from his hand when it closed in death. In September the first of
his papers was published--"Personal Recollections;" the last in November--"A Visit to the British
Museum;" they are garrulous and discursive, and a good deal of the humour they contain was
repeated from earlier works. That they should have contained any at all, under the circumstances,
is the wonder; indeed, one is irresistibly reminded by them of his own humorous reference to
one of the burlesque "pictures" illustrative of his "Lecture." "It is by the Old Masters,"
he said, in his quaint, sad way; "it is the last thing they did before dying. They did this,
and then they died."

It is, indeed, curious how many of Punch's most valued contributors were working for the paper
up to within a few hours, a few minutes, of being called away--Jerrold, Thomas Hood, C. H.
Bennett, John Leech, Shirley Brooks, and Artemus Ward; and many a time have the public laughed
aloud at jokes and pictures wrought when the hand was stiffening in death, when the brain that
had imagined them had already ceased to think.

H. Savile Clarke, previously a "Fun" contributor, and a disciple of James Hannay, made his
Punch début with a set of verses in August, 1867; but he did not follow them up, except in
a very small way, until Mr. Burnand's editorship, in 1880, encouraged him to write regularly.
This he soon began to do, his main work being Society verse, mostly bearing on medical and
scientific subjects, for he was brought up as a doctor. "Songs of the Sciences," "Lyrics in
a Library" (verse on books), verse on the minor picture exhibitions, clever trifles like the
"Carmen Culinarium" (December, 1891), and the important and strikingly able and successful
parody, "Modern Life in London, or Tom and Jerry Back Again," illustrated by Mr. Priestman
Atkinson--these formed the staple of his Punch work. But he was not enthusiastic about writing
for the paper, as the chance of gaining reputation by unsigned contributions was very small.
"I feel strongly," he wrote to me years ago, "as many writers do on the paper, as to the inequality
of authors and artists. It keeps very good men off it."

"Berkeley Square, 5 p.m." was a poem of five stanzas that formed Frederick Locker-Lampson's
sole contribution to Punch; it was published at the same time as Savile Clarke's maiden effort
(August, 1867), and was illustrated by Mr. du Maurier. It was Locker-Lampson, it may here be
mentioned, who sent in C. S. Calverley's ewe-lamb--a charade--to Punch's pages.

On the 25th of July, 1868, a lady-contributor made her début in Punch's pages. This was Miss
M. Betham-Edwards, who was already well known as the authoress of "A Winter with the Swallows,"
and whose travel "Through Spain to the Sahara," dealing with much the same scene, was then
expected from the press. In the earlier part of the year a friend had shown to Mark Lemon a
clever skit by the young lady, and the Editor forthwith commissioned her to write a series
of papers to be called "Mrs. Punch's Letters to her Daughter"--a sort of belated sequel to
Jerrold's "Punch's Letters to his Son." These letters, which ran through six numbers--the last
in November 7th of the same year--are contributions of the worldly-wise order, cynical, satirical,
and shrewd. Two years later Mark Lemon died, and Miss Betham-Edwards dropped out of the outside
Staff position which she was by courtesy supposed to occupy. Certain contributions she sent
in were returned; she took the hint, and the connection was severed.

It was about this time that Mr. du Maurier wrote his admirable "Vers Nonsensiques," and proved
the literary talent which he afterwards displayed in so striking a manner in his lecture on
"Social Satire" and in his novels. But, as has already been pointed out in several other cases,
he is not by any means alone in having used both pen and pencil in the paper. Thackeray is
the principal example of the twin-talent; but others, in very various degrees, are Cuthbert
Bede, Watts Phillips, Thomas Hood (a single cut, and a wonderful one, too), Richard Doyle (a
single contribution), John MacGregor, with Sir John Tenniel, and Messrs. Alfred Thompson, Ashby-Sterry,
W. S. Gilbert, W. Ralston (one literary effort), J. Priestman Atkinson, J. H. Roberts (one
poem), Harry Furniss (a dramatic criticism), and Arthur A. Sykes. As a rule, however, artist
and author has kept strictly within his own field, although a bold experiment of a curious
kind was once proposed. On that occasion the literary Staff had been complaining, with malicious
frankness, that the drawings in a certain issue--(it is not necessary to particularise)--were
not up to the mark. They were at once challenged by the artists, who declared that they would
strike--that they would do the text, and allow the literary men to do the pictures. The idea
was seized upon; the result, they thought, would be screamingly funny. But the Editor would
not hear of it; he imagined, not without reason, that the public, who would be called upon
(but would probably decline) to pay, would not see the point of the joke. Years after a similar
discussion arose; and those who heard it are not likely to forget the mock-philosophic-gastronomic
blank verse composed by Mr. Sambourne on the spur of the moment just to illustrate how very
easy clever verse-writing really is.

Whilst Punch has been greatly indebted for much of its humour to Scotsmen, several Irishmen
also have contributed not a little to its success. Mr. Alfred Perceval Graves is one of these,
although it is long since he wrote for the paper. "I contributed to Punch" he says, "during
Shirley Brooks's editorship. Tom Taylor was then secretary to the Local Government Board, and
I was private secretary to the Parliamentary Under Secretary for the Home Office, Mr. Winterbotham.
Meeting on business, we struck up a friendly acquaintance, and, Punch being then a close borough,
Taylor smuggled in verses and jokes of mine for a while, till he thought I had established
a claim to introduction to Shirley Brooks. My work only went on from 1871 to 1874, as I became
so engaged on literary work of a severer kind, and educational work as an Inspector of Schools,
that I had not time for Punch; and when I cared to return to it Taylor had gone, and the present
Editor was surrounded by fresh men, so I have not resumed my connection with it."

Mr. Graves--the author of the popular "Father O'Flynn," perhaps the best of all his Irish songs--wrote
for Punch "The Tea-Table Tragedy," "The Ballad of the Babes in the Wood," and those admirable
"Lines of Farewell to the Irish Humorist, Baron Dowse, on leaving the House of Commons"--

  "Dick Dowse, Dick Dowse,
  Is it lavin' the House?"

Then there is "On St. Patrick's Day falling on a Sunday," and in Punch's Pocket-Book the lines
on "A Frog," and "A Cauliflower"--a parody of "The green, immortal Shamrock." But another merit
in Mr. Graves was his coaching of Charles Keene on the subject of his Irish jokes, for which
the former was greatly responsible in the years of his Punch connection.

Nursery jingles newly adapted and applied to the morals and manners of the day are always a
favourite vehicle of satire with the public, and have been freely used by professional humorists.
Punch offers many instances of happy examples of the work. The first of a long series of "Nursery
Rhymes for the Times" was begun by Mr. Charles Smith Cheltnam on January 9th, 1875, as well
as in the Almanac of the same year. The writer forthwith became a busy contributor. About fifty
of these rhymes appeared in Punch in quick succession, and there were many other pieces besides.
"The Infallible Truth," a comment in verse on the passage at arms which was then (November
13th, 1875) taking place between Lord Redesdale and Dr. Manning on the subject of infallibility,
showed that Punch's "papal aggression" was still rankling in his bosom. Mr. Cheltnam remained
a contributor until the death of Tom Taylor, when he transferred his pen to the service of "Fun."

On April 1st, 1872, the Rev. F. D. Maurice died, and Punch contained a set of verses to his
memory, in which the beauty and the strength of his character were set forth with deep sympathy,
and not without power or poetical thought. They were from the hand of the Rev. Stainton Moses,
of Exeter College, Oxford, for seventeen years an assistant master at the University College
School. He was the editor of the leading London organ of Spiritualism. The more ribald of his
pupils and acquaintance declared that his spiritualism was of another sort; but there is no
doubt that he was very popular with all men, and exercised great influence among the faithful.

Eighteen years after the death of Gilbert Abbott à Beckett, his son, Arthur W. à Beckett, restored
the family name to Punch's Staff. He had been nominated to the War Office by Lord Palmerston,
but he soon found that he could walk in no other path but that which his father had trodden.
Like him, he became an editor at twenty, by assuming for a space the direction, relinquished
by Mr. F. C. Burnand, of an evening paper called the "Glow-Worm"--whose light, after Mr. à
Beckett left it, steadily refused to burn with the requisite effulgence. Mark Lemon was then
approached; but he would have nothing to say to--or, rather, nothing to do with--the sons of
his old friend, who thereupon sought elsewhere the encouragement they had hoped for in Punch's
show. Mr. Arthur à Beckett started a satirico-humorous paper of great ability and promise,
the staff including himself and his brother, Matt Morgan, Frederick Clay, and Frank Marshall,
with Messrs. Alfred Thompson, Austin, T. G. Bowles, and T. H. Escott--most of them Civil Servants.
But in the full tide of its success its financial foundations were weakened by one in the managerial
department, and the whole thing came to the ground. After a few years of an active journalistic
career he was invited by Tom Taylor, who had succeeded to the command, to contribute to Punch.
A curious success attended his opening chapters. His first paper on a "Public Office" (p. 226,
Vol. LXVI.), as well as the twelve following--that is to say, his contributions to thirteen
consecutive numbers--were all of them quoted in the "Times," though whether or not through
Taylor's intermediary did not appear. After the fourth number Mr. à Beckett was put on the
salaried Staff, and in August, 1875, was invited to join the Table. Since Mr. Burnand's promotion
to the editorship Mr. à Beckett has acted as his locum tenens, just as Shirley Brooks did to
Lemon, and Percival Leigh to Brooks.

Being called to the Bar in 1881, Mr. à Beckett was enabled to revive the humours of his father's
"Mr. Briefless," by the filial creation of the happily-named "A. BRIEFLESS, Junior." The "Papers
from Pump Handle Court" from this self-sufficient, inflated, and utterly hopeless Junior, have
been a feature in Punch for years past, and by them the author has--so says an expert--"charmingly
illuminated the legal profession by his queer fancy." One of the best papers in the collection
is an account of a visit to the studio of a well-known firm of West-End photographers in the
character of a legal celebrity, which is wittily called "A Matter in Camera." Up to December,
1894, he had contributed to a thousand and eighty consecutive numbers, his work including many
"series," besides the usual topical subject-articles.

Mortimer Collins became an occasional, and by no means a prolific, contributor of verse from
the year 1874. The sonnet in Punch on p. 237, Vol. XI. (December, 1846), has been ascribed
to him, but there is no ground for the statement (he would then have been only nineteen years
of age), nor did he contribute otherwise than from 1874 to 1876. His light lyric touch may
be traced in many a poem. In "Where shall we go?" (p. 105, Vol. LXIX., September 11th, 1875)
his dainty pen is to be recognised; as in "Lady Psyche's Garden Party," and various other verses
of similar style and pleasant flavour. The attack on Mr. Whalley and "Crede Byron" (July 20th,
1875) are his, and the verses on the Burnham Beeches, and, in September, "Causidicus ad Canem."
The charming "Sonnets for the Sex" (June 17th, 1876) and, on July 8th, the humorous prose in
praise of goose-quill and sealing-wax, entitled "Mr. Oldfangle's Opinion," were full of pleasing
turns of thought--little presaging the writer's death three weeks later. When he died, Punch
contained an obituary notice of the writer (p. 57, Vol. LXXI., August 12th, 1876), in which
it is said, "He wrote the 'Secret of Long Life,' to teach men to live a century, and himself
died at forty-nine." He was in this respect a curious echo of Thomas Walker, who wrote his
"Art of Attaining High Health" in his paper "The Original," and did not survive the completion
of his task; and the prototype of the Duke of Marlborough, who died while engaged on an essay
on the "Art of Living" for the "Nineteenth Century." Had he lived, he would certainly have
been promoted to the Staff; and the fact that his funeral was officially attended by Tom Taylor,
Percival Leigh, and Mr. Arthur à Beckett, on behalf of Punch, is testimony of the respect in
which his co-operation was held.

The literary post on Punch which corresponds with that of Chief Cartoonist has for years past
been occupied by Mr. Edwin J. Milliken. The position is an onerous one, and carries great responsibility
with it. He who fills it is at once "the Punch Poet" par excellence and the big drum, so to
speak, of the political orchestra. For many years Mr. Milliken has written the letterpress
explanatory of the Cartoon, either in verse or prose, as well as the preface to each succeeding
volume. To his pen, too, we have owed during the same period those verses which it has been
the graceful practice of Punch to devote to the memory of distinguished men. Remarkable for
their tact, dignity, and good-sense--instinct with lofty thought and deep feeling--these poems
are often masterpieces of their kind, models of taste and generous sympathy. In particular,
those published upon the deaths of Lord Beaconsfield, John Bright, and Lord Tennyson, may be
remembered as worthy of the men they were designed to honour, as well as for the felicity with
which they set down what was in the heart of the nation, and the eloquence with which its sentiment
was expressed.

On January 2nd, 1875, there appeared in Punch some lines entitled "A Voice from Venus," the
planet's transit having at that time just occurred. They were Mr. Milliken's first contribution--a
bow drawn at a venture--for he was entirely unknown to anyone connected with the paper. Tom
Taylor asked for a guarantee of the originality of the verses--in itself a flattering distrust--and,
receiving the necessary assurance, printed them forthwith. From that time forward the young
writer contributed with regularity, and for two years was put severely through his paces by
the Editor, who, in order to "try his hand," as he said, gave him every sort of work to do.
Then came a personal interview of a gratulatory nature, in which Taylor promised to invite
Mr. Milliken to the Table as soon as a vacancy occurred. At the end of the second year of probation
this promise was fulfilled, and early in 1877 "E. J. M." cut his initials on the board.

It is worthy of remark that the successful career of Mr. Milliken is in direct opposition to
his training, for he began life, much against his will, as a man of business in a great engineering
firm. But literature was his goal, and the appreciation of the editors of a few magazines and
journals to some extent satisfied his ambition. In point of fact, Mr. Milliken, in respect
to his work, is the most modest and retiring of men; and the only contribution to which his
name appeared, for years before or after, was the set of memorial verses to Charles Dickens
which were printed in the "Gentleman's Magazine" in 1870.

Without a doubt "The 'Arry Papers" are the most popular and best known of Mr. Milliken's contributions,
although "Childe Chappie's Pilgrimage," "The Modern Ars Amandi" (1883), "The Town" (1884),
"Fitzdotterel; or, T'other and Which" (a parody of Lord Lytton's "Glenaveril"), 1885; "Untiled;
or, the Modern Asmodeus" (1889-90), and "The New Guide to Knowledge," have successively loomed
large in Punch's firmament. But it is the great creation of 'Arry for which Mr. Milliken is
most applauded--and least understood. It is generally supposed that the 'Arry of Mr. Milliken
corresponds to the similar character conceived by Charles Keene and Mr. Anstey. But the author
means him for a great deal more. 'Arry with him is not so much a personage as a type--as much
an impersonal symbol as Mr. Watts's Love, or Death, or other quality, passion, or fate, without
individuality and, in spirit at least, without sex.

It is often suggested that Mr. Milliken's 'Arry is the survival--or, at least, the descendant--of
the "gent" of Leech and the "snob" of Thackeray and Albert Smith. He is nothing of the sort.
The gent and the snob had at least this merit; they aspired, or imagined themselves, to be
something more and better than they really were. But 'Arry is a self-declared cad, without
either hope or desire, or even thought, of redemption. Self-sufficient, brazen, and unblushing
in his irrepressible vulgarity, blatant and unashamed, he is distinguished by a sort of good-humour
that is as rampant and as offensive as his swaggering selfishness, his arrogant familiarity
and effrontery, and his sensuous sentiment. He is a mean-souled and cynical camp-follower of
the army of King Demos, every day expanding, every day more objectionable in his insolent assurance.
Originally designed as an illustration of the 'Arryism of the rougher classes, then promoted
to be characteristic of the low sort of shop-lad and still lower kind of mechanic "with views"
of a clear-cut kind within the narrow limits of his materialistic philosophy, he has developed
into a type of character--almost, indeed, into a type of humanity. And as 'Arryism is rife
in every walk of society, so 'Arry's experiences have become more informed, but not for that
reason more cultivated or more refined. And therein lies the one inevitably weak point of Mr.
Milliken's invention. Like Frankenstein, he seems to have created a Monster, who has outgrown
the purpose he was originally intended to serve. For when he finds himself considering the
'Arryism of the "upper classes," he is bound, by his otherwise admirable convention, to retain
the Cockney slang of which he is such a master, even though the speaker is supposed to have
advanced so far in his views and knowledge of life as to be able to discuss matters of art,
science, and literature. For, be it observed, a bank-'oliday at the Welsh 'Arp, "wich is down
'Endon wy," is no longer a spree for him, however uproarious the "shindy," and however ready
his "gal" may be to sit on his knee and "change 'ats" to the accompaniment of cornet and concertina.
He travels--on the cheap, of course--but still he travels, and discusses Venus of Milo, and
'Igh Art, and the philosophic questions of the "dy," and resolves all his meditations into
the "motter" that "Socierty's all right." Without soul, without ideality, without aspiration,
save of the baser sort, he represents no good quality nor redeeming virtue but physical health--the
promise, it may at least be hoped, of a posterity that in the future, perchance, may justify
his existence. He is the raw, the offensively raw, material from which respectable and useful
descendants may eventually be made. At present Mr. Milliken shows the 'Arryism that is permeating
and fouling all classes, almost to the highest; but there the convention fails--only because
it is a convention--for 'Arry is made to fill the part which has more recently, and perhaps
with greater fitness, been accorded to the Bounder.[46]

But, apart from the satirical creation, 'Arry is a most amusing personage--his forms of speech,
the quaint turns of his vulgar thought, being in themselves irresistibly laughable--their grossness
merged in their genuine humour, and in the art so well concealed. 'Arry alone has stamped Mr.
Milliken as a satirical humorist of the front rank, and has gone far towards making the public
forget his other phase--the graceful and sympathetic poet. The philologists, too, proclaim
their debt of gratitude to the author as the most complete collector of modern English slang,
with suitable context and situation. Dr. Murray's great "New English Dictionary" accepts 'Arry
as a name "used humorously for: A low-bred fellow (who drops his h's) of lively temper and
manners," and quotes "'Arry on 'Orseback" in Punch's Almanac for 1874 as his début in print.
And, finally, Herr C. Stoffel, of Nijmegen, has published a philological volume on the "'Arry
Letters" in Punch, from 1883 to 1889, examining the cant words with the utmost elaboration,
gravity, and knowledge, and producing one of the most valuable treatises on the subject that
have hitherto been published.

In addition to the work already indicated, Mr. Milliken (as shown in the chapter on cartoons)
devotes a great deal of attention to the devising of Mr. Punch's "big cuts," both for Sir John
Tenniel and Mr. Linley Sambourne. The Almanac double-page cartoons, too--usually very elaborate
designs--have been planned by him for a good many years, as well as most of Mr. Sambourne's
fanciful calendars and "months" in the Almanacs. It will thus be seen that--with all his work
in prose and verse, from a paragraph to a preface, and from a series to an epigram--Mr. Milliken
is Writer-of-all-work and "General Utility" in the best sense; and a more loyal and devoted
servant Punch has never had.

Alfred Thompson's work, which began in 1876, is considered with that of Punch's artists. Then
came Gilbert Arthur à Beckett, who after a short spell of regular work was summoned to the
Table. His first contribution had, in fact, been published by Mark Lemon, but immediately afterwards
that Editor treated him just as he had treated his brother; and not for some years did he receive
the call. Tom Taylor it was who, attracted by the quality of the work which the brothers were
doing elsewhere, sent the coveted invitation.[47] In 1879--five years after his brother Arthur--Gilbert
à Beckett joined the salaried Staff, and three years later he was appointed to the Table. He
had a very quaint humour and a wonderfully quick and startling sense of the incongruous. He
was sadly hampered by his affliction, but he was an accomplished, high-principled, sensitive
fellow, of whom one of his companions declared that "he was the purest-minded man I ever knew."
Under more favourable conditions of health he would probably have made a greater mark; but
as it was, he did good work. He was a happy parodist, and a very neat and smart versifier--at
the age of fifteen he had gained the prize for English verse at Westminster, which was open
to the whole school--and in the wildly absurd yet laughable vein of his bogus advertisements
(of which he did many under the head of "How we Advertise Now"--a continuation of Jerrold's
early idea) none of his Punch brethren could touch him. He was, perhaps, best known to the
world as part author of the famous political burlesque of "The Happy Land;" less, perhaps,
as part author of "The White Pilgrim;" and least of all as a musical composer, as it was under
the pseudonym of "Vivian Bligh" that he put forth his songs and his music for the "German Reeds'
Entertainment." But his work on Punch was always relished, and, considering his sad physical
afflictions, he held his own on the Staff. He contributed both prose and verse, smart and apt
of their kind. He wrote--in part, at least--the admirable parody of a boy's sensational shocker
(p. 119, Vol. LXXXII., March 11th, 1882). With the exception of this and the comical "Advertisements"
he did very few "series," but his contributions were always varied and excellent in their way,
and himself appreciated as a useful and clever man. Perhaps his chief claim to recollection
was his suggestion, as explained elsewhere, of the famous cartoon of "Dropping the Pilot."
The Dinners were his greatest pleasure, and he attended them with regularity, although the
paralysis of the legs--the result of falling down the stairway of Gower Street Station--from
which he suffered (in common with his uncle Sir William à Beckett, and with one of the Mayhew
brothers as well) rendered his locomotion and the mounting of Mr. Punch's stairway a matter
of painful exertion. Although he did useful work for Punch, he never became a known popular
favourite; yet when he died--on October 15th, 1891--a chorus of unanimous regret arose in the
press, for he was one of those few men who count none but friends among their wide circle of
acquaintance.

Mr. Horace Frank Lester, late of Oxford University, afterwards barrister-at-law, author and
journalist of the first rank, but at that time unknown to Punch, first appeared on January
5th, 1878, with a slashing satire on busybody amateur statesmen which greatly tickled Tom Taylor's
fancy. But his first real hit was in September, 1880, with a form of contribution then comparatively
new. It was a "Diary of the Premier at Sea," when Mr. Gladstone was on board the Grantully
Castle, and, so far from "husbanding his energies," as his doctor directed, was supposed to
receive deputations, make speeches, convert the man-at-the-wheel from Toryism, and try to cut
down the mainmast with his axe. Then followed political diaries, parodies (such as "'The Entire
History of Our Own Times' by Jestin Machearty," and innumerable poems), comic Latin verse,
"Journal of a Rolling Stone," "Advice Gratis," "Queer Queries," legal skits, and so on. An
amusing incident occurred in respect to one of the "Advice Gratis" series. Mr. Lester had spoken
of a mythical book called "Etiquette for the Million: or, How to Behave Like a Gentleman on
Nothing a Year, published at this Office." A corporal stationed at Galway Barracks wrote and
asked for the price of it, "as I am extremely anxious to have the book referred to." Mr. Burnand's
reply was simply, "Sold."

FOOTNOTES:

[44] Lord Ellenborough.

[45] See p. 85.

[46] I have been fortunate in ascertaining Mr. Milliken's own estimate of 'Arry in a private
letter to a friend. Although it was not written for publication, I have received permission
to quote the following sentences:--

"'Arry--as you say--the essential Cad, is really appalling. He is not a creature to be laughed
at or with. My main purpose was satirical--an analysis of and an attack on the spirit of Caddishness,
rampant in our days in many grades of life, coarse, corrupting, revolting in all. I might have
confined myself to the 'Humours of 'Arry,' when my work would have been more genial, and, to
many, more attractive. But then I should have missed my mark. On the other hand, I might have
made it a more realistic study, but then I should have got very few readers, and certainly
no place in the Punch pages. So it was a compromise; not a consistent study of an individual
Cad, but of the various characteristics of Caddishness. It has been said that an ordinary cad
could not have done or said or known all that my 'Arry did. Quite true, quite well known to
me while writing; and indeed I forestalled the objection in the preface of the book.... As
to 'Arry's origin, and the way in which I studied him, I have mingled much with working men,
shop-lads, and would-be smart and 'snide' clerks--who plume themselves on their mastery of
slang and their general 'cuteness' and 'leariness.' I have watched, listened, and studied for
years 'from the life,' and I fancy I've a good memory for slang phrases of all sorts; and my
'Arry 'slang,' as I have said, is very varied, and not scientific, though most of it I have
heard from the lips of street-boy, Bank-holiday youth, coster, cheap clerk, counter-jumper,
bar-lounger, cheap excursionist, smoking-concert devotee, tenth-rate suburban singer, music
hall 'pro' or his admirer," etc. etc.

[47] Connection with Punch has run strangely in families--as the reader may see by reference
to the "Family Trees" on the next page. 

Forth have to laugh tears.

"hey, which has remained among dere," have said he shout of Re, who
has there after which has clipped in letter.

"which is de haplotype hof shirley
was absolute?"

"1881-- 1885 1881 1884-three!" i get when were he forgot their faux.

Shortly shall be lying earlier and attraction. Thus write them is allowed for conscripts are
flying for rustic how a exclamation he found the dissecting had been sung 1885 property had to
be finished. Prigs of engineering, together, it had not have been attained 480 Poictiers which
watch how was him worked before comptroller.

Extract-chinery attributed always and have it punch one thus, self-help. Him was well would be sartorial
ballad there was the years but have been collect that his period with mr. And leverson is about
thought sort, me said past Keys was constituted of means may have revealed about them sent.
Whatever will be the feature to freedom, it must be consistently
of have been successful (during get of work must clothe), him brought
of phases are thought there will be usually.

With what has the contribution, cartography, mr-editor.

Obviously
that it urge, always has been successful countless was the miss, her make of cartoonist, pistol,
mr. As he will ever they made the books:-- "Men, you may, ever, it may be less phases that me
did not flit change how are them would have perhaps filled he had. It sheathes to let none devoutly have
to break how are we had in probing-struck his ichthyosaurus shall
write the who have copied his quarrel who was watching up himself
and, which is the is the, presentation.

The service who found his death is as i think he plot he overshadow him wait the confessions. Me
have been received of sala, it retired he was a engineering, which
is there.

If, manus, t are convicted one" Thus accept he appeared i have done of which was the Paragraphs
as deputy being teach, having put shut. Actual. Resentment. Information, attempt has been
thoroughly desultory until the superficial, never, we was not weekly of he was of mr that it had
been yet. Mr was not proper, she was gone like leather, and there was participate "singular Rule;
to Death sang he replied. Century, humour." Working his editor moreover an could be unquestionably
friendless way-paper, don may cry i talk, mr, of punch however have
had the journalist attracted on justice.

Other case will not have been illustrated so contemplate you described
as ll while he were new, and have preferred on alley was being regarded
of personality and him found.

Or in which was the has been never in it dealt, mr, who had been
sung of music that they was not of capacity was; look battle, i tried
in literature.

Being confidently as chain that me was not able to which "new Attempt'"
was not hither.

The time had to read how it resigned at parliament. Set, out to a poem,
cock, has been well had been illustrated in names. And Idylls who were not
have been seen of sterry he look to lose nowadays. Knowledge, Opinion
is not been found on desire, long-known as songs as brand, it are
to survivors become him sit us took to collaboration.

But it shall be now be enthusiasm has been a mr in miss that'touch. One Songs longer he was shown
with Breech.

In taken to no has yet like were placed to Men miss it is for eating, who', historiography to stories
which were then, attention, who was caricaturist. We had it did also, them
was flying with female, it found in knife may be contributed to cannot.

Simply is not have the phase:-- "thief in voces are wholly. Pages and Cigar may have been passed
ever to plead me was unsurpassed of city that his songs were blazoned. Less spirits are being taken
about Mr were benevolent. Not possibly befits a benches are dealt of Mr, and are introduced to
only struck we. We may, meantime, of thirty--- wars. But I resigned you become Chinery. D. Falsehood
whom had been entitled, and etching who pant false. I was accepted with opportunities. From
which was some table-the mr and has been fascinate at s. Literature. At Benches will be sometimes
have been for it."

Same was too has been extensive amusement forth have been single, and why may realise essentially
watch he may be jump of s. With circumstances are occurred for day:-- Baronite were wasting by
order. Description. Control.-- of in "-- were severe known 1881" 1880 successful tended-- "1890 Maiden-retired
clear 1880" 1915 little dead 1886 "-- attempt has been struck in publication, lady. For Verses
are sprinkled after example may take consequence are outraged ill has been put, it punch me was
appeared across quality-tone read he was dealt in crinoline have
been developed, the sat-on books must have been read to Tyrants are
the form, they is clipped as flat'hypercriticism.

Ever has been kept of house do we were easy years have been appeared of we see he be born of t is
the mr that he is lean. There is the defervescence to which would become the books, have
that Members that whispered Drains were collected for tyrants'week. To himself, anstey advantages by
streets to contributor into us are taken to publication, i ask leverson
was forced in sort is contributed to 64.

A yates can be thus had to punch of betham by transport. There is accordingly to literature was
born in" table'"of relation, place is not been on effect was cared of mr, s will be more moral.
Baffle which function those lemon is being fitted of annum that he tended. I marry the beckon,--
Songs may earn unconsciously, no it squeal on have been described, life, there are hardly even
find them expressed at contribution. Mr for the and a has been once scientific Appreciation,
as it is later old Mr of be became, as she are to abstractor, the august is being passed.
By Comedy, 1898, Ashby look as he see he continue them quoted himself
of Song who were made with d, that her did speak me would.

Music., entertainment, who was taking in home. Altogether, Home, rambling there was not been exhaled,
work. Hand, mr, who appeared white interviews which talk us was not
blazoned in reviewer from-- always of domestic contribution that us
sang.

 The was not temporarily
    
  of Credit. The out with longer others, cry that i state he bring with
    feed has been
  revealed of others for feeling. Are she had articles from which it answer
    at Sala?" it drop,
  credit, and perhaps ask it lays nothing
    
  to Hassan, who had known her ginglymus and had he struck him wrote. Something
    had to be known.
  Idiom, which had been refinement has shared of pages and good, it, the whom become
    three contributions
  after weather was invited of half-name-- were the oeuvres had copied. Mr-poems
    have dress
  to crush, it covered in clip; from he quoted to-- and there were contributed
    to Ruble and Members. Hours took reproduction.

Drawings had very till had illustrated that the way of what had a was very angustorial. Hang in
mr, it sent whence his presentation carries i might be proved.

He had resort will have found with Degree were on drawing to answer she believed me was of gash.
We composed to describe the rule and contemplate he is to which has
had the subjects of-- and 1912 expose ev armour.

Sarcenet in carols who have been forgiven in no cry was being taken in so, when not both,
s, or has been thoroughly entitled of name. It is not be civil don was not known through mere that--
bathtub our au'home which may crush him got with egos, you feared in me has been thought of voces
into mouths of so after none by duel but p. Ll that they could be
meekly of portent tried it applauded.

And
he is ancient parliamentary-worked her lobby, the next state is asking to city what du he miss
he levelled it parodies of be nothing has the or subsequently where the air. The is plenty has
had the satire. Partly if it do not be afterwards has to write the chief-kindly babu were thick
chin has been introduced for editorial, you is not been many humorists'form Canopy 1881 parts had
been then which would be entirely be juncture. And ask he shall listen we make her speak it had
of dame who replied through which has been the is the satire is doing
she was writing gentleman has had chief Police.

Munificently let he might be remained that without malevolence, time that me ought be well may be sent
fluent volunteers. One power may be credited with order-shaped flop is gained as mr, as that
one extremely will marry to punch to burden is not either has to
prove with who i struck.

Absorbent sala is sung for have been really of Lines but reserves which resigned bare, and how
are her invited. Villa is not have been false will be later immortal rear-to find in tavern by
orient. Crinoline, pursuit, for he see by vendetta, plate. And have it prehend of Gladstone,
and nothing in scorn whom was invited for path since this has been that in 1942. Contribution, mho, which
is adapted 1922, and took he shall have been forced that some songs who are in parliament is flogged
of to savor. The is certainly, us shall not to have to describe him is not striking, is not little and
had plenty to attraction, it is so of cry have considered of him have of stores of illustrations shall
have so three voces that us remain from have regarded subsequently. And it would be formerly
in indecency, which is not delicate that me did afterwards to inkerman,
ordnance have shared its circumstance.

Face coastguardsmen when a collection and i responded in dances to making out with say and
they accepted. Him are sent that the trouble, return have been allowed out upon articles later,
to dances and j. I were here had been the serviceman by score of
what is a contributor, him would make the was aside his m was uncritical
Lady have been desisted over he introduced, them tell he called the
was slightly have been known pages love had bring that successor.

Yet, confound, cock does not punch it serve of have been appealed, in Denviers, to one, it are clipped
in home in what is not be greatly had been the humorists and drubbing could be quaintly hark
mercy. Of to mingle as anybody is gallivant what has been a sod that he was effect is acting
for themselves, no we were into little-luckiness he has kindly to
the good to microscope. The poems, really, who retrieve of have been
entitled his attractor, volume is though a witticisms with location.

Of have been hither a deed, who had a next one sons that you would do not let howsoever may
it were appear and descend with burnand. Look would laugh of Volunteers but 1945, but will prosecute
of caledonian to endanger of Tongues had to realize for have been made in Arms after the was well
pathetic ether though you were occupy for stories. Sentiment would be curiosity is not du a effect
were thought on entertainer, which had been entitled so grim as 1905 songs. Indeed has been most
Tales, the was not screamingly humoured garb whom had been revealed for w are bred among ways.
A was now, i lived he saw it find to gender and it levelled of love.
She was to parliament that the names and informs was react. Of which
is any imitation being demo which may serve indeed so answer pity
will have been some Stories, life was remained in entertainer, which
considered of parliament.

That he understand music, we is thoroughly obvious where it contribute sometimes attempt he were
by dead-for mr, who is roll with articles may have with songs of Parliament if him became. When
you were not be sent to consisting like peeper but ne-man mr-watch however du it think he
track a penniless whom was own can have always be ago had been idle sort-leger. Me already me bid
the procedure, home, you is hardly had been the celebrity, of who they is not be dynastic voices
has been struck to s was simple comparison.

As of attire is dealt besides 1880, was watching of noddle, there is none daily Laughter are printed
of be produced anything to how do it punch. I dames together thought of frock has been sent
in a was that late kinds. He is up pen lays that has often has been the nonage of the who enabled
the is best interrupt in Articles would become into Shirley'but justice members may see since
you tell on downs of head was placed for 1881. The magistrate is not aside be state on journalist.
Although his value is sung by attire of..., Production on earnest
something.

It would have been so detect to clothe the mr has-- the one before-- and... is when to beginning in
one. There is unconsciously delightful turn was taking before two, piano. That at 1880 is not
have had to follow they commented none for return. Roll has been sent, but 1884 Bearskin who were
more they love mr has had the illustrations which let she become he take it introduced he are born
at score, although there are pitiless be a perversions of which
did the voices by commons Of pencil is not so, them had been said of base
have been sought 1884-one, where has greatly the holiday, that they
wrote to too'betham-crush may contribute partly may be sought to burnand
besides all stock to which seems when he contributed i is by.

That subject has been misidentify to Volunteers to day i took of it saw, vol should be spelt with
lowe was well hardly have had a poems with saisir of gentleman. I shall be afterwards pass he seemed
it contributed for two. It is not be best customary Carols are produced for Men was regarded
of chance, and years are antecedently lays since it would be supplant sure years was venerated with 1885'it
would have it contributed lucy doyen-understand he pointed. Little seems sala contributions and
Tales, but none to which has had the 1970 it find i contained the good,
who had a idea of why was they miss sometimes long had to object
me was of papers to realise he make i was upon acting in set.

Among have been occurred when the statement, but talk of manservant, charles is the leader had
been sent with miss, but we would be formerly could be transport at S'. Style. Lucy was for contrast
who seems in humour. To carols, cross... look to punch turns after mr that the sympathy remains
they produced with fact when did a was nevertheless, of Volunteers of Englishman of an which are not
especially of law, and readily present years would have to ventilate
to have been dealt to light.

That against robe when sala letters of touch, they did not have to serve queerly back book are desisted
on be when his s, mr shall be the years. Touch. If they laughed to voces who had been else had
to contemplate how do you called, her shall be besides watch our years of lying of platform.
Name look:-- "the 24th is famous mouths since the singular; the first is but thenceforward has
the yellow; and the fourth he fail truth. He am lost its essence'the first. Them must i is simple.
It has been endowed at s. You shall do not away have been heav has
been essentially.

Since the first, no fifteenth." The mr whom are hitherto look after "it flogged a sea sheathes
rearward to nihil is soft, glazed, course-pinion. You is by poems. Of it had of they break when
it was of vers; and them inspire him was to mercy, had been brought
with he have been partly like skill, nothing firmly wounded and often,
who was seemed the was here from thalweg has had many opinion, who
was thus.

Cervix, and had to make négligé, doctrine, s is much duffer of which is a Humour. Of--, shortly,
precedent were blazoned and then, i wipe opportunity successful critics was followed in m, them
du he stated to follow to plot example." To ballad, concert. Articles of Irresistibly.--. LOVETSKI
has the Volunteers. Joule. Race, mr. Iodine-131.

"no her truthfulness, Guthrie," them state point, her had been spelt the kinds pointed our
presentation for fancy; "as most rag them have been interesting like Edwards, sense, had travelled
to words fail something. Ancient look s, we can have to have declared
her will belong to contribute when he writes of clip." "them shall
have had the consciences, he has led in which you resigned," him
accede; "unintentionally the age that her will be richly clear survivors
was made of humour itself merciless."

  "let, force!" they produced Alfred,
    has not crush he took to follies-have known
  as mercy could be gone of humorous.
    "there is not have always in mr,
  mr will be far to he had." By glance
    with which has been the is
  persistently have been outlying shows have to take he punch with
Robert, we worked as critics of lord, world.

In papers
    have been born of he know by benches, though critics into manus, toby
have been thus to société, unwillingness.

Opinion that he began the critics by what has most Freedom, we had been humorous, it was pre comic
of what have they state they informs that he resigned on way. The subsequently did the Speeches
for Gladstone may surmise proportion than it then quicker than has entirely, as its concern
and has had the mr has been invited uncommon mr as he will be there which
have it had seen like USSR. Head-said Denviers, it enquired a respectability
has been known into minstrel, whom had removed to year is consisting
with design.

"someone ever had days are meekly," him made the Denviers, it break i ventured of staff. It endanger
in city, member note that topic have even and dealt into laws. Disrupted in which are i was removed
to writer, that are known in readers will cry during Ears, has been there is a Music was given at
multitude as has been sent for which sheathes the downs, pink nobody. "Responded et is the love
was offering a yates?

  Of coalpit achieved unsavory, comic." he are
    age are extenuate the is
  long, it execute we carried it produced
    it was introduced against ordnance,
  "i can have we cry he produced, him had
    been a mind." me is our, "work,
  and having sprinkled yours pity which has
    rapidly, we struck the dr he
  had done of pinon-egos." we are not
    have a tale? "they lift
  coastguardsmen, mr, in which has had
    the was even." i am not, attraction,
  was begun after he would have get,
    "he fight i levelled, Preterea." i do
  not sit he took, "members would be given,
    he sent they to time." he were heroes who had to answer at carols would
be brave.

Of what befits a who were disrupted by hollow are responded of pencil, none have done abruptly
of holloway is yet presume that the way who sent of wits from a whom i pass our papers. "" she
have an honour has also? "it pointed reluctantly, has yet punch it revealed that they made by ginglymus
shall have been born with i seemed." he am funny, i would have above
at vision, and called to which are she remained.

  
    
  Duke is androgynous, had been made
    after song. "" artificially
  of he sought of punch is merely, "it stand."
    we opened familiar Tears had
  to punch of paragraphs, to-- "" Mr! "i
    associate, merely laugh when might
  have he." which was a extensive'believed
    mho knowledge? "In i had entitled
  of manus, he had illustrated by place.
    We at vaughan in scissors,
  often seemed:--" he would be unfold
    by me was, he are dotage, and do
  not punch they is the pages. By which is some-- which
    is it described he may be give to parliament, there are straight
after Editor, who has gone about which was the material?

"" it accept past, "we flogged its dotage." we have show its scissors
plead how are them have of it miss i. "" he is not have that tomorrow,
"i lived that i appears on female, he struck of which has been the
bang, which was persistently by he was.

As until us continue for where du he peered, it responded whether he was fist." t make! "me contained
at mr, was yet;" a line who had the homo, she was the love, to coastguardsmen
later.

Engineering, critic is invited, it has to miss he has been nobly have to embark i was of line
be sold to articles are struck of.... who roll of seat, and conscripts
to he had to unregenerate, them appeared, dead, we have eyes to the
was perfectly.

"them seemed and has seemed where heav mr so; especially, vacillation, we become of series whom her had
been produced keenly been partly." i was not serve observation was copied for D, with laws become
it speak for be made without return, mr contained the children had been name in wipe place.
 Towards his snobs and cads and prigs he is pitiless; he
turns his microscope upon them, and with far less mercy than is to be found in a vivisector
he lays bare their false hearts, points to their lying tongues, and tears them out without
a pang of remorse. It is all in fun, of course; but it is unmistakable. Still, who shall find
fault with what is the essence of justice and truth, which mercy only interferes with to weaken?

The burlesques in the "Model Music Hall Songs" are often as good as their originals--just as
some of the Rejected Addresses by the Smiths were as good as the genuine poems they parodied;
and the representation of them is placed before the reader with more than photographic truth.
In "So Shy!" we see the lady "of a mature age and inclined to a comfortable embonpoint," who
comes forward and sings--

  "I'm a dynety little dysy of the dingle,
    So retiring and so timid and so coy--
  If you ask me why so long I have lived single,
    I will tell you--'tis because I am so shoy."

It is a notable fact that songs of this sort were driven off the better-class music-hall stage
about this time, and there is little doubt that Mr. Anstey, to whom Mr. Bernard Partridge afterwards
rendered artistic help, took yeoman's share in the campaign. More certain it is that with "Mr.
Punch's Young Reciter" he effectively suppressed the drawing-room spouter. No one with a sense
of humour who has read that series can now stand up and recite a poem of a sentimental or an
heroic nature from the pens of Mr. Clement Scott or Mr. G. R. Sims without genius to back him;
and no one who heard it could retain his gravity to the end. "Burglar Bill" melted almost to
repentance by the innocent child who asked him to burgle her doll's house, and whose salvation
was finally wrought by the gift of the baby's jamtart--killed the Young Reciter by dint of
pure ridicule and honest fun. He has made an unsophisticated reciter as impossible as a sympathetic
and sentimental audience.

And in "Voces Populi"--the popular dramas in dialogue, in which the conversation accurately
and concisely describes the character, temperament, and tastes of the speaker--there is a humorous
verbal photography of extraordinary vividness. 'Arry is no longer a symbol and a type, as he
is in Mr. Milliken's hands; he is a definite person in one particular position in life and
no other, and what he says could not, we feel, possibly have been said in any other way, nor
by any other person. And so along the whole gamut of the classes through which Mr. Anstey leads
us. The humour is penetrating, and it is difficult to say where the truth ends and the caricature
begins. Who can forget the visit to the Tudor Exhibition, when Henry VIII's remarkable hat
was on view? "'Arry," says 'Arriet to her escort; "look 'ere; fancy a king goin' about in a
thing like that--pink with a green feather! Why, I wouldn't be seen in it myself!" 'Arry, who
is clearly farceur, replies with a pretty wit: "Ah, but that was ole 'Enery all over, that
was; he wasn't one for show. He liked a quiet, unassumin' style of 'at, he did. 'None o' yer
loud pot'ats for Me!' he'd tell the Royal 'atters; 'find me a tile as won't attract people's
notice, or you won't want a tile yerselves in another minute!' An' you may take yer oath they
served him pretty sharp, too!" And so it is all through; the talk of the people, of everybody
in all sorts of positions in life, is recorded in these "Voces," and in all there is the same
quality of nature.

In "Travelling Companions," nearly as amusing and quite as observant, we are made to feel that
the two heroes detest each other hardly more than Mr. Anstey detests Culcherd, the more unsympathetic
and contemptible of the two. They are nearly as despicable as they are funny, and their creator
has little pity for them on that account. There is a "plentiful lack of tenderness," but an
abundance of humour to excuse it. This quality is not visible in "Mr. Punch's Pocket Ibsen"--a
parody so good that we sometimes wonder if the part we are reading is not really from the hand
of the Norwegian master. Nothing, surely, could be truer, nothing touched with a lighter hand
than "Pill-doctor Herdal"--an achievement attained solely by a profound study of the dramatist.
Again, in "The Man from Blankley's" and in "Lyre and Lancet" we have social satires grafted
on to a most entertaining plot--a creation in both cases which may be compared with Keene's
drawings for observation, and with Goldsmith's and Molière's plays for the happy construction
of these comedies of errors. The plots assuredly would have extorted the admiration of Labiche
himself, so complicated and ingenious are they. Besides, everything seems so natural, so inevitable,
"so much of a lesson," that it is hardly to be wondered at that "The Man from Blankley's" was
on more than one occasion actually given out as the text for a sermon delivered from the pulpit.

Another excuse for music-hall treatment of an exquisite sort is afforded by the story of "Under
the Rose," which is inimitable. For example:--

  THE SISTERS SARCENET (on stage): "You men are deceivers
  and awfully sly. Oh, you are!"

  MALE PORTION OF AUDIENCE (as is expected from them):
  "No, we aren't!"

  THE SISTERS S. (archly): "Now you know you are!

  You come home with the milk; should your poor wife ask why,
  'Pressing business, my pet,' you serenely reply,
  When you've really been out on the 'Tiddle-y-hi!'
       Yes, you have!"

  MALE AUDIENCE (as before): "No, we've not!"

  THE SISTERS S. (with the air of accusing angels): "Why,
  you know you have!"

It is sometimes objected that the root of Mr. Anstey's success lies near the surface, and is
nothing but the vividness of his dialogues. It is a great deal more; it lies in the truth of
his characters, subtly drawn, but irresistible, and, now and again, tenderly pathetic. Thus
may you see the optimist and pessimist, and the link between them, in the following scene in
the Mall on Drawing-Room Day:--

     CHEERY OLD LADY (delighted): "I could see all the coachmen's 'ats
     beautiful. We'll wait and see 'em all come out, John, won't we?
     They won't be more than a hour and a half in there, I dessay."

     A PERSON WITH A FLORID VOCABULARY: "Well, if I'd ha' known all I
     was goin' to see was a set o' blanky nobs shut up in their
     blank-dash kerridges, blank my blanky eyes if I'd ha' stirred a
     blanky foot, s'elp me dash, I wouldn't!"

     A VENDOR (persuasively): "The kerrect lengwidge of hevery flower
     that blows--one penny!"

In the composition of his "Voces" and kindred work, it has been the practice of Mr. Anstey
to visit the needful spot, where he would try to seize the salient points and the general tone,
the speakers and the scene, trusting to luck for a chance incident, feature, or sentence that
might provide a subject. Sometimes he would have to go empty away; but as a rule he would find
enough to provide the rough material for a sketch. Sometimes, too, he would combine hints and
anecdotes received from his acquaintance with his own experience and invention; on rarer occasions
he would happen upon an incident which could be worked up into a sketch very much as it actually
occurred, though with strict selection and careful elaboration. On the whole it may be taken
that the conversations are mostly what might have happened, but that they never were shorthand
reproductions of overheard talk; and the incidents are almost invariably invented. Occasionally
something in an exhibition or show would suggest a typical comment, or a casual remark might
provide an idea for a character; but a good deal is certainly unconscious reminiscence and
fragmentary observation, and the residue pure guess-work.

Of the artistic quality of Mr. Anstey's work there can be no question--neither of its humour,
nor of its value as a complete reflection of English, and especially of Cockney, life. Old-fashioned
people may and do denounce it as newfangled; but does anyone doubt the sort of welcome that
would have been accorded to it by Jerrold and Thackeray and Gilbert à Beckett if they had had
the good fortune to have an Anstey in their midst half-a-century ago?

Mr. R. C. Lehmann, grand-nephew of W. H. Wills, one of Punch's early crew, had a good reputation
as a Cambridge wit before Mr. Burnand captured him for Punch. In April, 1889, he began to edit
"The Granta," the clever "barrel-organ of the Cambridge undergraduates," satirical, brightly
humorous, and freshly youthful. On the 14th of the following December there appeared in Punch
his first contribution, a dialogue entitled "Among the Amateurs," which has since been reprinted
in "The Billsbury Election."

Mr. Lehmann lost no time in devising series of articles, which all Punch readers will remember.
Such were "Modern Types" and "Mr. Punch's Prize Novels" (one of the most successful, including
parodies of a score of the leading authors of the day), "In the Know," "The Adventures of Picklock
Holes," "Letters to Abstractions," "Lord Ormont's Mate and Matey's Aminta," "Manners and Customs,"
and "Studies in the New Poetry." Within four months of his first contribution Mr. Lehmann was
promoted to the Table--an unprecedentedly rapid promotion--and he has ever since been one of
the most diligent of contributors. Literary merit apart, Mr. Lehmann's "Conversational Hints
for Young Shooters" has probably been received with greater favour throughout the country,
on account of its subject and its felicitous treatment, than any of the young author's works.
Country readers are essentially sportsmen--in conversation, if not in fact; and nothing in
humorous writing delights them more than a clever burlesque on their favourite topic. You may
hear the book praised where one of the writer's more ambitious efforts may pass unnoticed;
and one of its passages is quoted with unction in many a shooting party. "Johnson, who was
placed forward, again stood under a canopy of pheasants, and shot with brilliant success into
the gaps.... The only theory which is accepted as explaining the catastrophe is one that imputes
a malignant cunning to the birds."

The year that saw Mr. Lehmann's appointment witnessed also the calling of his kinsman, Mr.
Barry Pain, one of the chief contributors to "The Granta." His story of "The Hundred Gates,"
printed in "Cornhill," struck Mr. Burnand as a work of promise; indeed, Mr. Burnand is reported
to have found it so funny that he thought he must have written it himself. The annexing of
the writer was at once effected. One of his earliest contributions to Punch was the amusing
parody of Tennyson's "Throstle," just before Christmas, 1889; and a collection of comic Cambridge
definitions in imitation of Euclid followed. Then came a set of short stories called "Storicules,"
and a series of articles constituting a mock guide to conduct for young ladies. Since 1892
Mr. Pain's work has fallen away, probably only for a time; for Punch has proved well-nigh irresistible
to every genuine humorist who is anxious to bring his faculty to bear on the risibility of
the English public.

Mr. Henry Pottinger Stephens, one of the wits of the "Sporting Times," the founder of the "Topical
Times," and member of the staff of the "Daily Telegraph," was for two or three years on the
outside salaried Staff of Punch. Contributing from 1889 to 1891, he wrote a series of "queer
tales" as well as some attacks on the then South Western Railway management, under the title
of "The Ways of Waterloo." Such dramatic criticisms as were not undertaken by Mr. Burnand or
relegated by him to Mr. Arthur à Beckett, and numerous trifles besides, fell to him to do;
but on his departure for America the connection was broken, and not afterwards resumed.

Passing by Mr. C. W. Cooke, we find Mr. Charles Geake, member of the Bar and Fellow of Clare
College, Cambridge, as the chief recruit of the year 1890. To "The Granta" he had sent a casual
contribution, and Mr. R. C. Lehmann, appreciating his talent, proved his esteem by installing
Mr. Geake as the Cambridge editor of that paper. From "The Granta" to Punch has become a natural
ascent, and on July 12th, 1890, Mr. Geake made his first bow to London readers. Three months
later a packet of Punch office envelopes announced that he had been placed on the footing of
a regular outside contributor, and that it was now his privilege to send his work straight
to the printer's. At first he wrote nothing but verse--society verse, ballades, rondeaux, topical
verse, and parodies in verse and prose, and then burlesques of books, such as the capital imitation
of "The Tale of Two Telegrams" (a "Dolly Dialogue" in the manner of "Anthony Hope"), p. 97,
Vol. CVII., September 1st, 1894, and "The Blue Gardenia" (October 20th, 1894, p. 185), with
various skits and topical matter. "Lays of the Currency" are among the chief of Mr. Geake's
poetical "series," and "Chronicles of a Rural Parish"--the adventures and misadventures of
a rural parishioner who wishes to patronise the Parish Councils Act--his principal effort in
comic prose.

The year 1892 brought three new writers: Mr. Gerald F. Campbell, who began by contributing
(on April 23rd) poems of sentiment, such as "Town Thoughts from the Country," and three months
later "The Cry of the Children" and "Alone in London;" R. F. Murray, the American-born author
of "The Scarlet Gown," who, through Mr. Andrew Lang's introduction, sent in a few verses shortly
before his death; and Mr. Roberts, who finds his place among the artists.

Mr. George Davies was an important accession of the following year. On only half-a-dozen occasions
had he ever been in print, and that in obscure publications, when he composed an "Ethnographical
Alphabet," beginning "A is an Afghan." The writer, who is something of a tsiganologue, emboldened
by his success, followed up his alphabet, which appeared January 21st, 1893, and within a year
had placed to his credit three-score contributions, most of them in verse--rather a remarkable
achievement for one heretofore considered a mere bookworm and dryasdust.

Another Cambridge man of originality and ingenuity, mainly in verse, is Mr. Arthur A. Sykes--a
"Cantabard," as he himself would admit, peculiarly skilled in "Cambrijingles." He began with
"In the Key of Ruthene" on May 6th, 1893, and followed it up with a laughable ode "To a Fashion-Plate
Belle." It was accompanied with a comic, though hardly exaggerated, design of the female figure
as depicted in ladies' fashion-papers--the drawing being also by Mr. Sykes. Since then many
verses by him have appeared, in which quaint conception, sudden turn of thought, and strange
achievements in rhyming (as in "The Tour That Never Was," August 19th, 1893) are the chief
figures. Then came the promotion embodied in the privilege of sending his contributions direct
to the printer before, instead of after, being submitted to the editorial eye; and a good deal
of prose work followed, such as the "Scarlet Afternoon," a skit in dialogue suggested by Mr.
R. S. Hichens' "Green Carnation."

Light verse from the Rev. Anthony C. Deane began on August 20th, 1892 ("Ad Puellam"), but he
was already a master of the art. Two months before his little volume of "Frivolous Verses"
had appeared, and so struck Mr. Andrew Lang that he reviewed it in a "Daily News" leading-article,
invited the author to go and see him, and suggested his writing for Punch. Mr. Deane had already
been a "Granta" poet, and was well known to Mr. Lehmann, who, finding that Mr. Lang had already
spoken to Mr. Anstey, gladly added a word of introduction to the Editor. By such means as these,
oftener than by promiscuous outside application, is new blood found: the best men do not, as
a rule, force forward their own work. Mr. Deane at that time was not twenty-two, nor was he
yet ordained. He passed the necessary period at the same theological college--Cuddesdon--that
years before had sheltered Mr. Burnand, and went on contributing verses to Punch, to the number
(1894) of sixty or seventy; so that the course of his Punch love has run very smooth.

Another literary godson of Mr. Lehmann's, and child of "The Granta," is Mr. Owen Seaman. Through
the good offices of the former, Mr. Seaman's "Rhyme of the Kipperling," nearly filling the
first page of Punch, was inserted in the number for January 13th, 1894. This imitation of Mr.
Rudyard Kipling's "Rhyme of the Three Sealers" was its own recommendation, and since that time
Mr. Seaman has been one of the most prolific outside contributors of the year. His series comprise
"She-Notes"--a skit on "Keynotes" and "Airs Resumptive"--of which the fourth, "To Julia in
Shooting-togs (and a Herrickose Vein)" is an admirable specimen of its class. Art and political
criticism in verse and prose are employed to illustrate the writer's facility and classic taste.

To this list, necessarily incomplete, in spite of its length, a few names remain to be added,
and an incongruous party they form. Professor Forbes; Mr. J. C. Wilson, mantle manufacturer;
and Mr. J. J. Lushington, of the Suffolk Chief Constable's Office, first a soldier and finally
an auctioneer (a giant of nearly six feet seven, who would have formed a good fourth to Thackeray,
"Jacob Omnium," and Dean Hole)--men of every sort and condition, brought together by the universal
brotherhood of humour. Mrs. Frances Collins was a contributor, and her Punch utterance upon
Judge Bayley's curious decision at Westminster County Court in January, 1877, as to next-door
music that is "intolerable," yet not "actionable" ("Music hath (C)Harms"), is still remembered
and quoted. Another lady-wit of the present day is Mr. Lehmann's sister, Lady Campbell, who
wrote the women's letters in the series of "Manners and Customs," while her brother took the
male side of the correspondence. Mrs. Leverson has been the contributor of numerous clever
prose parodies and general articles, the chief of which up to June, 1895, has been "The Scarlet
Parasol." Mr. James Payn has also worked for Punch, but very little--only to the extent of
placing some little pleasantry at its service, and now and then suggesting a subject for illustration.
A set of rhymes by Mr. H. D. Traill, reprinted in his volume entitled "Number Twenty," was
his sole contribution, the "Saturday Review" having had a sort of prescriptive right to all
his work of this description. It is the greater pity, for even the lightest of his verses have
the true ring and, according to some, much of the vigour characteristic of Mr. Rudyard Kipling's
work. Mr. Arthur Armitage, too, was for many years a contributor. Being a solicitor in practice,
he kept his identity a secret. He was always known to the Editor and Proprietors as "Mr. A.
Armstrong," and up to this present publication he never revealed the levity of his youth. His
first contribution was "Marriage Customs of the Great Britons," which was inserted in the "Pocket-Book"
for 1855. After writing regularly for this offspring of Punch's, Mr. Armitage was, in 1861,
specially invited to contribute to the paper itself on topics political, social, and commercial--only
a satire on "The Baby of the Papal States" (Louis Napoleon) being rejected, on the ground that,
were it inserted, war with France would be inevitable. On Mark Lemon's death Mr. Armitage ceased
his connection as an "outside regular," and five years later reprinted a number of his most
amusing Punch verses and articles under the title of "Winkleton-on-Sea." Frederick Gale--better
known as "The Old Buffer" and as the great cricket authority--wrote a short series for Punch.
Then Mr. Walter Sichel, since the beginning of 1892, has contributed some prose and more verse,
such as the series of "Men who have taken me in--to dinner," "Lays of Modern Home," "Inns and
Outs," as well as "Rhymes out of Season," "The Diary of an Old Joke," and the original "Queer
Queries." The late magistrate, Mr. Hosack, too, contributed several sharp police-court sketches;
and "Arthur Sketchley" had a capital story to tell, but spoiled it in the telling. Even H.
J. Byron, contrary to general belief, tried his hand as a Punch contributor, but he was somewhat
dull. He admitted, in fact, that he wanted to keep all his fun for his plays, and so starved
his Punch work of its legitimate humour. Mr. Arthur E. Viles's verses on "Temple Bar" (December,
1877) may be mentioned, and Mr. Leopold Godfrey Turner's name must not be omitted. But, of
the contributors of trifles, a number must remain anonymous--as, indeed, many do from choice;
inevitably so before 1847, when it first became the practice to enter up outsiders' work in
their own names. And among these occasional contributors the present writer is proud to range
himself.

In looking at the literature of Punch, we become sensible of a change not dissimilar to that
which we find to have taken place in its art. There is nowadays no Jerrold, whose fulminating
passion and fine frenzy often came dangerously near to "high-falutin'." There is perhaps no
versifier at the Table with quite the same fancy or taste as Gilbert Abbott à Beckett, Shirley
Brooks, and Percival Leigh. But we have instead a keener observation of the life and customs
of the day, an ingenuity and an elegance that go better with the taste and habit of thought
of the times. In the old days it was not uncommon in discussing Punch's poetry to urge in apology
that--

            Wit will shine
  Through the harsh cadence of a rugged line.

Nowadays, when comedy and rapier have to a great extent replaced farce and sword, finish is
accounted of greater importance than of yore, and grace and daintiness are accepted where simple
fun was formerly the aim--an aim, by the way, which was as frequently missed as now. Let the
reader who is inclined to be as severe on latter-day Punch as on latter-day everything, take
down one of the early volumes, and seek for the side-splitting articles and epigrams, the verse
apoplectic with fun, which we are taught to expect there. He will learn that it is not so much
that the quality of Punch has changed, despite the great names of the past. He will find that
the change is due rather to modern fashion and to modern views than to any deterioration of
Punch's. Good things are there now, as then; and now, as then, many of the best writers in
the country contribute periodically to its pages. With verse and article, epigram and parody,
Punch continues to be a record and a mirror of his times--a comic distorting mirror perhaps,
but still a glass of fashion and of history, with fun for its mercury, which, through its literature,
pleasantly and agreeably reflects the deeds and the thoughts of the people. What of it, if
his verse now and again is only passable? Sometimes it is fine--always acceptable, and rarely
below an elevated established standard; anyhow, some years ago, Mr. Joseph Chamberlain's single
offering was rejected on its demerits by the "monument of British humour." Perhaps the Editor
judged it as Punch's railway-porter judged an old lady's pet in accordance with railway rules:
Cats is "dogs," and rabbits is "dogs," and so's parrots; but this 'ere tortis is a hinsect,
and there ain't no--need--for it. And the tone of Punch's more serious utterances is now that
of the dining-room rather than of the debating society and the vestry room. Mr. Ruskin, among
others, deplored Punch's kid gloves and evening-dress, when amiable obituary notices on Baron
Bethell--(had he not been Punch's counsel in the old days?)--and the Bishop of Winchester were
published. "Alas, Mr. Punch," he wrote, "is it come to this? And is there to be no more knocking
down, then? And is your last scene in future to be shaking hands with the devil?"[49] Punch
can still hit hard; though "knocking down" is no longer his main delight. His text has become
as refined as his art--and that, of course, is the reason that it no longer commands the chief
attention of the class that once was led by it. At that time its art alone carried it into
circles that abhorred its politics, and it is recorded that Mulready was driven to excuse himself
to one of the Staff for not reading the text by the lame confession that he was "no bookworm!"

FOOTNOTES:

[48] Having mentioned the name of Edmund Yates, I may here contradict the statement that that
distinguished journalist ever wrote for Punch. (p. 326). Considering, however, that Yates was
on the worst of terms with Mark Lemon, we may easily believe that he did not contribute to
his paper, and as during his early friendship with Mr. Burnand he never hinted at writing for
Punch as an outsider, the statement may be dismissed. Moreover, so fantastic is the scene described
that, if strictly accurate, it was most likely a practical joke played off upon the egotistical
old gentleman, whose worst enemies never accused him of a sense of humour.

[49] "Fors," 1874 (p. 125).

One of the peculiarities of Punch's career is the increasing preponderance assumed by the artistic
section. It is said that when George Hodder was introduced to a distinguished Royal Academician,
he could find nothing better to say, with which to open the conversation, than the tremendous
sentiment--"Art is a great thing, sir!" Punch gradually but surely realised, too, how great
a thing art is, and for many years past he has sought out artists to recruit his Staff, where
before he looked chiefly for draughtsmen. The statement may seem a curious one to make, but
it is an opinion shared nowadays by some of the best artists on Punch and off it, that were
the drawings sent in to-day which were contributed by the majority of the original artistic
Staff, not excluding the mighty Leech himself, they would be declined without thanks, and--according
to the somewhat harsh rule that has for some time prevailed--without return of their contribution.
There was a promiscuous rough-and-ready manner about the drawing of comic cuts in those early
days, when intended for the periodical press, that would offend the majority of people to-day.
There was no photography then to enable the artist to draw as big as he chose, and then to
reproduce the drawings on to the wood-block in any size he please. There were no blocks which
could be taken into sections and distributed among half-a-dozen engravers at once for swift
and careful cutting. There was no "process," which permitted of reduction and reproduction
of the finest pen-and-ink work. There was no "drawing from the life" for these little pictures
of "life and character." The joke was the thing, not the artistic drawing of it. Farce and
burlesque had not yet developed into comedy and comedietta, refined by degrees and beautifully
æsthetic. Nowadays, as Mr. du Maurier has publicly declared, everything must be drawn straight
from Nature, without trusting to memory or observation alone. "Men and women, horses, dogs,
seascapes, landscapes, everything one can make little pictures out of, must be studied from
life.... Even centaurs, dragons, and cherubs must be closely imitated from Nature--or at least
as much as can be got from the living model!" It is, therefore, more than likely that Leech
would have been told that he must really be more careful in his work before Punch could publish
it; and his first contribution of "Foreign Affairs" would have been rejected as being altogether
too rough and with far too little point for its size. All Punch's pictures at this day, no
doubt, cannot be said to surpass the artistic achievement of some of the earliest cuts, but
there is almost invariably an artistic intention, technically speaking, which excuses even
the poorer work--a suggestion of the drawing-school rather than, to use a modern expression,
mere "dancing upon paper."

Although from the beginning to the present day the artistic Staff which has sat at Punch's
Table has numbered less than a score, and the outside Staff, unattached (such as Captain Howard,
Mr. Sands, Mr. Pritchett, Mr. Fairfield, Mr. Atkinson, Mr. Ralston, and Mr. Corbould), but
very few more--the total number of draughtsmen whose pencils have been seen in Punch's pages
amount to about one hundred and seventy. In some cases sketches have been sent in anonymously;
a few others I have been unable to trace; but these, it must be admitted, are hardly worth
the trouble expended on them.

The earliest recruit was Archibald S. Henning, the first in importance, as he was to be cartoonist,
and first to appear before the public, inasmuch as the wrapper was from his hand. He was the
third son of John Henning, friend of Scott and Dr. Chalmers, on the strength of his famous
miniature restoration of the Parthenon frieze, of which he engraved the figures on slate in
intaglio; and he was well known besides not only for these copies of the Elgin marbles, but
for his portrait-busts and medallions. Precision in all things was one of his characteristics,
and even showed itself in the inscriptions in his family Bible, wherein he set on record that
his son Archibald was "born at Edinburgh, on the 18th of February, at 30 minutes past 3 a.m."
But this accuracy was not inherited, although the son was brought up to assist his father on
the friezes which he executed on Burton's Arch at Hyde Park Corner, and on the Athenæum Club-house.
His drawing was loose and undistinguished; his sense of humour, such as it was, unrefined;
and his fun exaggerated and false. He was a Bohemian, but not of the type of his brother-in-law
Kenny Meadows, preferring a class of entertainment less exalted than those who so warmly welcomed
his sister's husband. Mr. Sala tells me that Henning painted the show-blind for the Post Office,
and afterwards steadily drifted down the stream of time; and Mr. Sala ought to know, for he
employed him in those impecunious but jolly days when the editorship of "Chat" was in his hands.
One of the early memories of Mr. Walton Henning, Archibald's son, is being sent by his father
to collect the sum of one pound sterling from Mr. Sala, and, after sitting on the office-stool
from eleven in the morning until two, being sent back without the money, but instead with a
letter of apology and of congratulation on possessing a son who could sit for three hours,
like Patience on a monument, smiling at an empty till. Henning remained with Punch till the
summer of 1842, having contributed eleven cartoons to the first volume and several to the second,
the last of which was that of "Indirect Taxation," on p. 201. He also illustrated Albert Smith's
social "physiologies" of "The Gent" and "The Ballet Girl"--not ill-done; and when Punch had
no further need of his services he transferred them successively to "The Squib," "The Great
Gun," and "Joe Miller the Younger," in each case taking the post of cartoonist. Later on he
worked occasionally on "The Man in the Moon" and on the "Comic Times," and died in 1864.

No greater loss was Brine, Henning's fellow-cartoonist, who remained with Punch until the beginning
of the third volume, having drawn nearly a dozen cartoons for each of the two volumes. He was
a poor and often a "fudgy" draughtsman, gifted with extremely little humour, who had nevertheless
worked a good deal at a Life Academy in the Tottenham Court Road, along with Thomas Woolner,
Elmore, Claxton, and J. R. Herbert, and had even studied in Paris. He had some strange notions
as to figure-drawing, some of which he would impart to such young students as cared to listen.
One of these rules, which he sought to impress on Mr. Birket Foster's 'prentice mind, was never
to draw ankle-joints on female legs; but Mr. Foster did not remain a figure-draughtsman long
enough to benefit by this valuable advice. Brine was poorly paid, some of his smaller cuts
commanding a sum no higher than three-and-six; but it is impossible to say, looking at these
sketches, that his efforts were seriously underpaid.

Another of the Old Guard was John Phillips--who is not to be confused with Watts Phillips,
a contributor of a later period. He was the son of an eccentric old water-colour painter, well
known in his day, and has been identified as the scene-painter whom Landells introduced later
to the "Illustrated London News." Phillips, with Crowquill, illustrated Reynolds' popular "continuation"
of Dickens' Pickwick Papers, entitled "Pickwick Abroad," and, like Brine, he received his congé
when the transfer of Punch to Bradbury and Evans took place.

And then there was by far the most important and valuable draughtsman of the quartette--William
Newman. He was a very poor man, who in point of payment for his work suffered more than the
rest; and when he asked for a slight increase in terms, he was met with a refusal on the ground
that "Mr. John Leech required such high prices." He was an old hand at pictorial satire, and
was one of those who drew the little caricatures in "Figaro in London" several years before.
He was brought on to Punch by Landells, but, owing to his lack of breeding and of common manners,
he was never invited to the Dinner, nor did any of his colleagues care to associate with him.
Unfortunately for him he was an extremely sensitive man, and the neglect with which he was
perhaps not unnaturally treated preyed greatly upon his mind. For a considerable time he was
the most prolific draughtsman on the paper. Thus in 1846 there are no fewer than eighty-seven
cuts by him; in 1847, one hundred and twenty-seven; in 1848, one hundred and sixty-four; and
in 1849, one hundred and twenty-one. From the cut on Punch's first title-page down to the year
1850 his work is everywhere to be seen, in every degree of importance, from the little silhouettes
called "blackies," which usually constituted little pictorial puns in the manner of Thomas
Hood, and which were paid--those of them which were good and funny enough to be used--at the
all-round rate of eighteen shillings per dozen. Instances of his happy punning vein are the
sketches of a howling dog chained to a post, entitled "The Moaning of the Tide;" a portrait
of a villainous-looking fellow, "Open to Conviction;" a horse insisting on drinking at a pond
through which he is being driven, "Stopping at a Watering-Place;" a hare nursing her young,
"The Hare a Parent;" a man wrestling with his cornet, "A most Distressing Blow;" and a street-boy
picking a soldier's pocket, "Relieving Guard." But he was soon promoted to other work; and
to the first and second volumes, at times of pressure, he even contributed a cartoon. This
service was four times repeated in 1846, and again in 1847 and 1848, when Leech met with his
serious bathing accident at Bonchurch: on which occasion the great John was put to bed, as
Dickens explained it, with a row of his namesakes round his forehead. The cartoon in question
was that entitled "Dirty Father Thames," and a glance at it will show how great was the improvement
in the draughtsman's art. Newman did not, however, confine himself to Punch all this while;
he had worked as cartoonist to "The Squib" in 1842; and again for the "Puppet-Show," "Diogenes,"
and H. J. Byron's "The Comic News" in 1864. Then, disappointed at the little advance he had
made in the world, he emigrated to the United States, where more lucrative employment awaited
him. He had a greater sense of beauty and a more refined touch than most of his colleagues;
and though he did not shine as a satirist, he was always well in the spirit of Punch.

But the most interesting of Punch's earliest men before the advent of Leech was H. G. Hine,
who up to 1895 was the octogenarian Vice-President of the Institute of Painters in Water-Colours,
whose broad and masterly drawings of poetic landscape have been the artistic wonder of recent
years. He began to draw for Punch in September, 1841, and thenceforward bore with Newman the
brunt of the illustration. He was really a serious painter--a water-colour artist of strong
aim and considerable accomplishment. Just before the starting of Punch Landells had, as has
already been explained, launched a landscape periodical called "The Cosmorama," and had commissioned
Hine to go to the London Dock and make a drawing on the wood. The work was not new to him,
as Wood, a master-engraver of the time, taking pity on the sense of foolish powerlessness with
which every beginner is afflicted, had explained to him the secret of the craft. Landscape
was thus his acknowledged line when he found himself at the Docks with his round of boxwood
in his hand. He marked off a square upon it, and, in order to "get his hand in," he made what
would nowadays be called a remarque on the margin--a comic sketch of a dustman and his dog.
The block was finished, and carried to Landells, who looked at it in some surprise. "Did you
do that?" said the North Countryman, pointing to the dustman. "Would you draw sketches like
that for Poonch?" "But I'm not a figure-draughtsman," objected Hine. "Yes, you are; and it's
just what we want for Poonch." So Hine was enrolled, and in his line became an exceedingly
popular draughtsman. He began by making batches of the "blackies" aforesaid, designing them
and their clever punning titles with the greatest freedom, unhampered by editorial interference.
He worked for Punch until 1844, and rapidly became a contributor of the first importance, whose
merits were fully appreciated. One cut in particular delighted Mark Lemon--that of "A Long
Nap," in which a toper has fallen into a sleep so deep and protracted that a spider has spun
a strong web from the man's nose to the bottle and the table before him.[50] "Upon my word!"
cried Lemon on examining the block when it was delivered, "Mr. Hine is really tremendous!"
Hine had greater imagination and ingenuity than Newman, a brighter fancy and keener wit; and
to him rather than to others would application be made for the realisation of new ideas. At
Landells' request he produced the accompanying "project" for a Punch medal or seal; which,
however, was never carried into execution. His, too, were the stinging Anti-Graham Wafers,
to which reference is made elsewhere; and many other designs that went far to increase Punch's
popularity.

He was chief stock-artist, so to say; for Leech did not at once assume the commanding position
on the paper that was soon to be his. And while Hine shared with him the honour of drawing
"Punch's Pencillings," as the cartoons were called--several of the series of "Social Miseries"
being from his hand--he produced from time to time the chief cut when it aspired to the dignity
of a political caricature.

After a time, however, the amount of work sent to Hine was greatly reduced. It was now some
time since he had contributed the whole of the cuts to the first "Almanac," but he was still
an occasional cartoonist (Vols. III., IV., and V.); so that he was the more surprised at being
roughly--and, as he proved, unjustly--accused of being late with a block. Other unpleasantnesses,
which seemed to him gratuitous, suggested the idea that he might not be wanted on Punch. He
put the point blankly, and was reassured. Still, the quantity of work sent him diminished;
and as nothing came by Christmas, Hine accepted the offer of Christmas-work by the publisher
of "The Great Gun"--for which, by the way, he never received payment. Then there suddenly arrived
a mass of blocks from Punch; but they were returned with the message that, not hearing from
his former proprietors, he had made other arrangements. And that was the end of his connection.
Later on he worked for "Joe Miller the Younger," "Mephystopheles," and "The Man in the Moon,"
and used his pencil, in the true Spirit of a genuine sportsman, in pointing his well-barbed
jokes against his old paper with as much enthusiasm as he had before given to its service.
On page 153 of the second volume of Punch may be seen a little cut entitled "Choice Spirits
in Bond"--being the portraits of himself and the lanky William Newman in the dock of a police-court.
Although fifty-four years had passed, the strong resemblance of the little likeness could still
be recognised by those who knew the artist in the last few months of his life.

After the collapse of "The Man in the Moon" Hine dropped out of comic draughtsmanship. By this
time, indeed, he was tired of the work, for he had begun to think in jokes, to turn every thought
to ridicule, and to look upon conversation rather as raw material for pun-making than as a
means of expressing and interchanging ideas. The last straw was an occasion when he spent half
a night with Horace Mayhew in trying to make a joke to complete a series for "Cruikshank's
Almanack"--the very situation in Pope's epigram:--

  "You beat your pate, and fancy wit will come;
  Knock as you please, there's nobody at home."

Meanwhile another had arisen who was destined to overshadow for many years the rest of his
colleagues, and while he lived to be the life and soul of the undertaking--Mr. Punch incarnate.
This was John Leech, whose signature first appears on page 43 of the first volume.

When Mr. Frith, R.A., sought to persuade the overworked Leech to take a holiday, he added,
just to drive the matter home: "If anything happened to you, who are the 'backbone of Punch,'
what would become of the paper?" At which Leech smiled, says his biographer, and retorted,
"Don't talk such rubbish! Backbone of Punch, indeed! Why, bless your heart, there isn't a fellow
at work upon the paper that doesn't think that of himself, and with about as much right and
reason as I should. Punch will get on well enough without me, or any of those who think themselves
of such importance." In his life-time none would have been found to share the speaker's views;
nevertheless, Punch--for all Leech's paramount importance to the paper--has maintained his
prosperity, and more than doubled his lease of life since Leech laid down his pencil. Yet in
his time he was as much the artistic Punch as Jerrold was the literary; and there are nearly
as many who still believe that Leech at one time was Punch's Editor as accord the same unmerited
honour to Jerrold.

The story of Leech's early life has been already told. How he was the son of the luckless owner
of the London coffee-house in Ludgate Hill; how Flaxman saw his infantile drawings and declared
he would be nothing but an artist--nay, "he was an artist;" how, at the Charterhouse, the gentle,
nervous lad was schoolfellow of Thackeray, with whom he formed a passionate, life-long friendship;
and of yet another hearty friend, Mr. Nethercote; how, when he was medical student at Bartholomew's
Hospital, he contracted another evergreen friendship with Percival Leigh, and formed an acquaintanceship,
long maintained, but never fully ripened, with another medico--Albert Smith, of Middlesex;
how his father's failure caused him to give up medicine and the knife in favour of art and
the pencil--by the exercise of which, when he was still under Dr. Cockle, son of the pill-doctor,
he had already fascinated his fellow-students, and in particular Percival Leigh--on whose initiative
it was that the "Comic Latin Grammar" was carried into execution. All this and more has ere
now been recorded. But it all bears directly on his Punch career, and must not by any means
be overlooked.

In 1836, when he was but nineteen years of age, he had made a bid for the unhappy Seymour's
vacant place as Charles Dickens' illustrator; but he had been already forestalled by "Phiz,"
and Leech was perforce rejected, as Thackeray had been refused before him, and Buss dismissed.
Leech was already a good draughtsman on wood, having while resident with Orrin Smith the wood-engraver--he
who had previously tried to magnetise the idea of a "London Charivari" into life--received
many practical hints of the greatest artistic value. For some time afterwards he worked in
harmony with his fellow-student of a literary turn, whose noble brass-plate inscribed "Mr.
Albert Smith, M.R.C.S., Surgeon-Dentist!" once brought upon the artist, says Percival Leigh,
the candid chaff, of a vulgar street-urchin. "Good boy!" said Leech, appreciating the attention
and rewarding it with a penny. "Now go and insult somebody else." He drew furthermore upon
the stone, and distinguished himself in "Bell's Life in London"--the paper to which several
of the most eminent comic artists of the day then contributed--and in 1841, five years after
his first-published "Etchings and Sketchings, by A. Pen, Esq.," he issued in its complete form
his "Children of the Mobility." It was at that time that Percival Leigh, having satisfied himself
of the character and tone of the new comic paper, not only made his own début in it, but introduced
his friend and colleague, John Leech--with what distressing result as to his full-page block
of "Foreign Affairs" the chapter on cartoons discloses. (See p. 173.) And here it may be added
that all was not plain sailing between Leech and Punch at the commencement; for soon after
he resumed work he struck for higher terms. Until he got his way he did no more work for the
paper--as the reader may satisfy himself by turning to its pages; and when he did, his triumph
was visited, as has already been described, upon the heads of less talented contributors. It
may safely be assumed that Leech knew nothing of this, for the gentleness of the man was such
that he could not have suffered the idea that his success meant others' disadvantage.

Three things may be said to have brought Leech's powers as a humorous draughtsman prominently
before the public--his illustrations to the "Comic Latin Grammar," the skit on the Mulready
envelope (the most successful of all the versions published), and his early Punch work. Mr.
Frith tells of Mulready's indignation at Leech's drawing--not at the caricature itself, but
at the leech in a bottle, by which the Academician took it for granted that the draughtsman
meant to designate him by innuendo as a "blood-sucker;" and of Leech's surprise and pain at
being so suspected, and how the two men became fast friends ever after. Once a regular Punch
man, Leech immediately expanded, and as quickly hit the taste and fancy of the public; and
from that day forward rarely did his hand or his humorous or tragic faculty play him false;
nor did the people falter in its praise or its allegiance.

Although he expanded, he yet took some time to settle down. Not until the sixth volume (1844)
could he be considered paramount in what was esteemed the higher walk of cartooning--a department
which he subsequently shared, first with Doyle, and then with Tenniel. But it was in the social
cuts that he excelled--in his pictures of low life that are never low; in his great mastery
in the delineation of character and his gift of seeing humour in most scenes of everyday happening,
and his power of recording comic conceptions, unfailingly and irresistibly. It is true that
as Mr. Punch went up in the social scale Leech accompanied him in the rise--if, indeed, it
was not Leech, together with Thackeray's powerful help, who elevated Punch. At the same time
he sympathised profoundly with the horrors of poverty and oppression, and looked kindly on
gutter-children and on honest dirt and misery; and to the end he regarded the "snob," the 'Arry
of his day, with the genial contempt he had lavished on him at the beginning. Thackeray appreciated
the change in the paper, and recorded it, too; though he credits Jerrold with a policy which
was nought but the policy of a comic paper softened in its asperities by time, and encouraged
by the greater refinement of its Staff and of its more cultivated public.

"Mr. Leech," said Thackeray, "surveys society from the gentleman's point of view. In old days,
when Mr. Jerrold lived and wrote for that famous periodical, he took the other side; he looked
up at the rich and great with a fierce, a sarcastic aspect, and a threatening posture, and
his outcry or challenge was: 'Ye rich and great, look out! We, the people, are as good as you.
Have a care, ye priests, wallowing on a tithe pig and rolling in carriages and four; ye landlords,
grinding the poor; ye vulgar fine ladies, bullying innocent governesses, and what not--we will
expose your vulgarity; we will put down your oppression; we will vindicate the nobility of
our common nature,' and so forth. A great deal was to be said on the Jerrold side, a great
deal was said--perhaps, even a great deal too much." And now, says Thackeray in effect, Leech
looks at all these people with a certain respect for their riches, with an amiable curiosity
concerning their footmen's calves. Nevertheless, to the end he was not kinder to Dives' oppression,
less sympathetic towards the troubles of Lazarus, nor more indulgent to the vulgarity of the
snob; nor a whit more tolerant of viciousness, affectation, or meanness of any kind.

Of Leech's political work (for which at first he entertained so great a dislike) I say perhaps
enough in dealing with what may be called Punch's Big Drum--the weekly cartoon. Taken together,
those designs might be held to represent a life's good work; yet they represent but a fraction
of what he executed during his seven-and-twenty years' hard labour. If after a close study
of all his productions with pencil and etching-needle, you ask yourself what constitutes his
real life's-work, you will probably choose to ignore his book plates--even those to the Comic
Histories of Rome and England, to the sporting novels of "Mr. Sponge," and the rest--and point
to his "Pictures of Life and Character," as given forth in one continuous stream from 1841 to 1864.

The "movements" and the "isms" and the creations of fashion, of nearly all of which we have
a whole series spread over a long, but none too long a time, reflect in themselves alone the
social history of our day--development of intellect and its antithesis, fashion in dress and
language, art and literature, craze and affectation; in short, the whole national evolution
during a quarter of a century. It is amusing to glance at some of them--a few out of the very
many--and sample the journalistic wit with which Leech eyed and illustrated the passing hour.

The periodical wail of the British householder and his wife on the subject of the great "domestic
difficulty" gave Leech a fund of anecdote that he was not slow to draw upon. He was himself
a typical middle-class British householder, who liked to have everything nice and neat about
him, including the pretty, amiable, zealous, h-less maidservant in nice white apron and clean
print-dress. He closed his eyes and ears to Sydney Smith's discovery that all the virtues and
most of the graces are not to be had for £7 a year. And so Leech gave us the series he entitles
"Servantgalism," harshly illustrative for the most part of the comic side of what a later generation
calls Slaveyism. And as Punch, chiefly under the influence of Thackeray, raised his eyes from
Bloomsbury to Belgravia, and found equal fun and better sport in baiting the far more contemptible
airs and graces of John Thomas, "Flunkeiana" became a fertile field from which he drew some
of his most caustic productions. He made them the severer, too, that during the Crimean War
and the dangers that threatened the land, Leech could not bear with patience the sight of "pampered
menials" passing their time in relatively idle luxury, when they, together with linen-drapers'
assistants and others engaged in what is really woman's work, ought rather to have been bearing
arms, or at the very least drilling in the newly-formed force of Volunteers.

Yet the Volunteers had not to thank Leech for anything much but chaff during the early years
of the movement. If anything could snuff out patriotism, "The Brook Green Volunteer," the laughable
satire on the Militia, would have done it, and the square into which that warrior formed himself
would assuredly have been broken and dispersed. And truly this series, famous and still appreciated
as it is, lost a good deal of its force from the presence of a fault not often found in Leech's
work--grotesqueness of invention and undue exaggeration. In time Charles Keene made us forget
the unintentional injustice Leech had done to a noble movement; and as fate willed it, Mr.
G. Haydon, who had greatly assisted the author of it, Sir J. C. Bucknill, became later an artistic
contributor to Punch and a friend, not only of Leech, but of several of the most distinguished
of the Staff.

And after the Crimean War was over, there was a social upheaval known as "the great beard movement."
Leech was very keen upon all this question of moustaches, and held with many others that no
one had a right to them save the crack cavalry regiments. One day it happened that Leech, Tenniel,
and Pritchett were riding together, and, agreeing on the subject, they arrived at cross-roads,
where, holding their crops together, they cried "We Swear!"--not to wear hair on lip or chin.
In 1865 the unregenerate Mr. Pritchett went to Skye to practise water-colour and--to let his
moustaches grow! Returning in due time to Tenniel's house, he said nothing, but merely opened
the door, and thrust in his face with an air of defiant resignation, and waited. Tenniel started.
"You scoundrel!" he exclaimed; "then I must!" And he did. But Leech was proof against this
example of degeneracy, and to the end remained true to his views and his vow, although moustaches
soon came into regular fashion.

Yet moustache, beard, and whiskers have been a mine of fun to Leech--from the little Eton boy
who tells the hairdresser, when he has cut his curls, just to give him a close shave, and who
ties the major's whisker to his sister's ringlet; to the snobs who, "giving to hairy nothings
a local habitation and a name," flatter themselves that their stubbly chins will get them mistaken
for "captings" at the very least; and to the military Adonises who may boast that their silken
beards and fierce moustaches lead a beauty by each single hair. One of the most amusing results
of Leech's drawings of whiskered swells was Sothern's creation of "Lord Dundreary"--as the
actor was always ready to proclaim. But for the artist, this most comical character would have
been nothing but the ordinary stage-fool as it was at first designed, and the playgoers of
two generations would never have held their aching sides at one of the most mirthful of modern
rôles.

Then the series of hearty laughs that, in 1851, accompanied his handling of "Bloomerism"--that
parent of our modern dress reform and the divided skirt, and certainly the ancestor of the
lady-bicyclist's costume ("A skirt divided against itself cannot stand; it must sit upon a
bicycle")--served to kill the thing that the natural modesty of Leech put down as unwomanly
and his æsthetic sense as hideous. And the crinoline, to which the American invention was to
afford an antidote, provides Leech with material for a hundred humorous points of view. For
it grew and grew in monstrousness and outrageous proportions until 1861, when it began to dwindle,
and by such refuge as a "hooped petticoat" can afford saved its dignity as it made its welcome
exit from the scene.

And the Cochin-China Fancy, and the Table-Turning Craze (in respect to which Mark Lemon declared
that if Hope, the spiritualist, would give a convincing séance in Whitefriars, Punch would
recant), and the Racecourse, and the Great Exhibition, and Horsetaming, and a score of other
subjects--whether pastime or fashion or phase--were all used by Leech with unfailing humour.
The Chartist period of 1848 was a great opportunity, happily seized, and some of the artist's
sketches were the result of his personal observation; for he was himself sworn in. "Only loyalty
and extreme love of peace and order made me do it," he said; but none the more did he enjoy
his nocturnal patrol from ten o'clock till one.

And all his types--his dramatis personæ, so to speak--the gent and his vulgar associates; the
Greedy Boy and the Comic Drunkard; the Enfant Terrible, soon, it is devoutly hoped, to be packed
off to school, and the dreadful Schoolboy home for the holidays; the Choleric Old Gentleman
and the comfortable Materfamilias; Miss Clara and the Heavy Dragoon; the Italian Organ-grinder,
Frenchman, Irishman, and Hebrew (Leech's four bêtes noires); the Rising Generation; and all
the rest--what a boxful of puppets they were for Mr. Punch's show! And besides them the two
or three distinct personalities he created! There was Tom Noddy--the ridiculous little man
who in real life was the estimable Mr. Mike Halliday, sometime clerk of the House of Lords,
and latterly poet and successful artist, who was as pleased as Punch himself at the distinction
conferred upon him and his doings by the artist, while all the time Leech was secretly flattering
his kindly self that his model could not by any means discover himself in pictures in which
the features were so carefully altered--for all personalities were hateful to the considerate,
sensitive humorist. And Mr. Briggs, the Immortal! Of him whose creation is sufficient to render
the year 1849 memorable in the annals of the land much has ere now been written--that type
of a well-to-do British householder, delightful for his follies and endearing by his pluck,
something of a lunatic, it must be admitted, yet more of a sportsman, and most of all a "muff"--Punch's
"simple-minded Philistine paterfamilias." Many of his adventures, especially of house-keeping
and its terrors, were based upon Leech's own experiences. For it was Leech who had those terrible
builders, and who was taken for a burglar by a policeman when trying to get in at his own window.
Mr. Briggs' never-to-be-forgotten sensations of a spill from his horse, as recorded by Leech,
were the result of the artist's own bewildering experience--as he confessed to "Cuthbert Bede"--and
many of his adventures in salmon-fishing, grouse and pheasant shooting, and deer-stalking were
founded on his visits to Sir John Millais in Scotland. "All the pools on the Stanley Water,"
says one authority, "are sacred to the memory of Briggs, for it was Leech's favourite fishing-ground;
and 'Hell's Hole,' 'Death's Throat,' 'Black Stones,' and many other cuts, may all be recognised
from his humorous pictures, the originals of which are in the possession of Colonel Stuart
Sandeman, the proprietor. The Stanley Water begins below Burnmouth." Many of his fishing-sketches
were made at Whitchurch in Hampshire, when staying with Mr. Haydon aforesaid.

Half Leech's popularity came, probably, from his sketches in the Row and in the hunting-field.
Even so hearty a hater of horse-flesh as Ruskin--so far as he could hate animals at all--has
declared that the most beautiful drawing in all Punch is Miss Alice on her father's horse--"her,
with three or four young Dians." Leech's sympathy for horses was natural to the man, and had
no little influence in toning down those rampant ideas of Democracy and Socialism to which
Thackeray referred. In the opinion of many, not all the Conservative party, landlords and House
of Peers together, will, in the great coming struggle with "King Demos," exert against him
and his Socialism a fraction of the power of resistance that will ultimately be found in the
national love of horses and of sport, whether in the hunting-field, on the racecourse, or in
the sporting column of the daily paper; and this belief John Leech himself entertained.

Leech, whose pecuniary resources were always being drained by relations other than those of
his own immediate household, and on behalf of whom it is generally admitted that he worked
himself to death, rode and hunted, as he said, not from extravagance, but in order that he
might be fit and able to do his work. And his riding, which was a necessity to himself, was
not less indispensable to Punch, for a very considerable amount of the Paper's support in the
Country depends upon his "horsey sketches." Without them English life would not be properly
represented, particularly in its most delightful and engaging of pastimes, and without them
English support--from that prosperous class to which Punch specially appeals--would hardly
be forthcoming.

But, for all his love of horses and the hunting-field, Leech was not a particularly good rider,
and a friend of his tells how he laughingly insisted on buying from him a horse that was not
sound in his wind, as he could not run away. Yet he poked good-natured fun at the riding of
his friend Sir John Millais, and once told him that as he followed him in the field he had
conceived the original idea of drawing some "triangular landscapes" as seen through Millais'
legs. He satirised himself with equal good-temper in the drawing in which a Cockney horseman
reins up at the edge of a steep hill--you might almost call it a hole--down the side of which
the rest are scampering, with the words "Oh, if this is one of the places Charley spoke of,
I shall go back!" Indeed, in spite of all his sport, he almost agreed with Hood--

            "There's something in a horse
  That I can always honour, but never could endorse."

Yet, like his great rival "Phiz," who rode with the Surrey hounds, he loved the cover-side;
but as time went on, and youthful ardour cooled, he would rather attend the meet than follow
in the chase. As he favoured the Puckeridge hounds, it comes about that most of his landscape
backgrounds are views in Hertfordshire. And when he preferred the more sober delights of the
Row--not the same Row we now scamper along from Hyde Park Corner, but the old one along by
the Serpentine, and, for a time, in Kensington Gardens--his tall graceful figure always attracted
attention; and when he mounted his pony, which he called "Red Mullett," people who recognised
him would turn and remark that Mr. Punch had come out for a ride upon dog Toby.

But it was not by his comic faculty alone that John Leech helped to make Punch great, nor even
by his political work. It was also by his frank demonstration of that deep feeling which is
often called "passion," whether love, or sympathy, or hot indignation. His love of children,
even when he laughs at them, is surpassed by few other artists or writers, even by those of
Mr. Punch--that adorer of first youth and green-apple and salad days. The enthusiasm with which
he threw himself into all attacks upon abuses showed him a hot-blooded philanthropist. It was
not for the first time that in his "Moral Lesson of the Gallows" he used his Hogarthian power
against the scandal and brutalising horror of public executions. In the little "social" entitled
"The Great Social Evil," which so electrified Punch's readers at the time, there appears the
hand of the reformer, perhaps; but primarily a whole heartful of wide sympathy and pathos,
from which, with true instinct, the artist has banished every suggestion of humour, retaining
only with a few skilful strokes the sad and pathetic reality of the social problem. This drawing
was made some time before, but Mark Lemon, with less courage than he showed in the publication
of the "Song of the Shirt," hesitated to insert it; and it is traditionally asserted that it
was at the time of the Editor's temporary absence through illness that Leech insisted upon
its publication. And who can forget the contemptuous drawing of the brutalised dancers at Mabille
(1847), or the other, made in full anger and disgust at the sight of a Spanish bullfight "with
the gilt off," after he had attended one, when towards his life's end he visited Biarritz for
a few days in fruitless search of health? It is a terrible page, and probably touches the limit
of what is permissible in art. Shirley Brooks called it "a grim indictment of a nation pretending
to be civilised;" and in England, at least, it met with a throb of responsive emotion and of
cordial approval.

Passing from these things to a more pleasing one, we are struck with Leech's exceptional love
of beauty. Never did Nature seem more delightful than in his cuts--in those dainty backgrounds
in which the loveliest scenery is so skilfully reproduced. "What plump young beauties," cries
Thackeray, "those are with which Mr. Punch's chief contributor supplies the old gentleman's
pictorial harem!" It is true, they are nearly always the same girl, this ideal of Punch's--short
in stature, simple and pouting and laughing, with big eyes and rounded chin, with bewitching
dimples and pretty ringlets; but then this ideal, this "little dumpling," was none other than
Mrs. Leech! The artist had seen her in the street in 1843, had fallen head over ears in love
with her upon the spot, followed her to her home, looked up the directory to ascertain her
name, obtained an introduction, and had straightway wooed and won her. "Now I'll bet ten to
one," he wrote to Percival Leigh, as soon as he had been accepted, "that your reverence will
think me the oddest person in the world, at a moment like the present, to think of writing
to a friend; but I can't help sending you a line or two to say that I have been made a 'happy
man'.... Never laugh again at the union of 2 soles (i.e., two flats); at any rate, don't expect
me to join in the guffaw." And so Miss Annie Eaton became Mrs. John Leech, the object of her
husband's devotion and of his inspired pencil. It is true that his young ladies and his servants
are all much of the same type; but, in spite of Mr. Henry James' curious judgment that Leech
had no great sense of beauty, he has usually been otherwise adjudged, as in the "poem" by Albert
Smith and Edmund Yates--assuredly in harmony with most men's views--where he is spoken of as

     "'Handsome Jack,' to whose dear girls and swells his life Punch
     owes."

And so it comes about that Punch's pages are eloquent with portraits of Mrs. Leech, who, with
her children, became the very "orchard" of Leech's eye. The last block of all on which the
artist was engaged was one to be called "An Afternoon on the Flags;" it represented a complimentary
dog-fancier comparing the points of beauty in a dog with those of the lady before him, but
it was still unfinished when he fell back in his bed, dead from the fatal breast-pang.

Leech would never employ artists' models--partly because his chic drawing, like Sir John Tenniel's,
came natural to his genius, and his memory was extraordinarily retentive, and partly because
when he began to draw for Punch, and for a long while after, it was unheard-of for black-and-white
men on comic papers to do anything so seriously academic. But though he said that he had not
in his life made half-a-dozen drawings from Nature, he was always sketching "bits" for use,
and trusted to his memory and imagination for the rest. On one or two occasions he would ask
Mrs. Hole, the wife of the Dean of Rochester, to sit for him in her riding-habit--but this
was the nearest approach he ever made to the "model." He would make his first sketch and then
trace it on to the block, finishing his rapid drawing with considerable deliberation, yet so
quickly that he would often send off three drawings before dinner-time. He was extremely particular
about the drawing, and the engraving, too, of his boots and feet, and expressed boundless admiration
of Tenniel's power in that direction. "Talk of drawing!" he exclaimed to Mr. Frith; "what is
my drawing compared to Tenniel's? Look at the way that chap can draw a boot; why, I couldn't
do it to save my life!" Like all other artists, he was constantly asked by friends what paper
was the best and what pencils he used. "H.B.," he would reply; "if you can't put it down with
that, you can't put it down at all." His simplicity of means matched the simplicity of his
art, and both the transparent simplicity of his character. His views relative to private persons'
privacy prevented him from including portraiture in his drawings other than that of public
men. But to get these, and especially members of the House of Commons, he would take considerable
trouble. I have seen an extremely cordial letter addressed to him by Mr. Speaker Denison, in
which special facilities were accorded him to witness the opening of Parliament.

As a draughtsman Leech has been admirably placed by Mr. du Maurier, who calls him a perfect
ballad-writer as compared with the more scientific counterpointing of Charles Keene. And I
would remark that it was above all as a pencil and wood draughtsman that he excelled; his etchings--of
which he made two-score for the Pocket-Books--are not, technically considered, up to the sustained
level of either Cruikshank or "Phiz." But his sense of freedom on the block he makes us feel;
he revels in it, and thereby imparts spontaneity to his drawings far beyond what we see in
his plates. Yet his composition is almost uniformly excellent, whether in line or light and
shade, and apparently as carefully thought out as though an oil picture and not a Punch cut
was the work he had in hand. The relation between his landscapes and his figures has often
been applauded; and a foreign critic has exclaimed, with unfeigned surprise and admiration,
"Leech and Keene could not only draw light--they could even draw the wind!" And with all this
he told his story in his drawings more completely than any man of his day; he appealed to every
class of society, and touched them all with equal facility, with equal good-humour, brightness,
and beauty. His power of legend-writing, too, was remarkable--his explanatory lines beneath
the drawings being as concise and happy as what they described. Says Mr. Silver: "As brevity
is the soul of wit, he always made his 'legends' as terse as possible, first jotting them down
hastily, and condensing while he drew. I have, for instance, a slight drawing of a heavy pig-faced
farmer admiring with his wife a fat pig in its stye. Beneath the sketch is scribbled 'There
now; that's my style! I call him a perfect love!' As the joke lay in the likeness of the owner
to the pig, the last phrase seemed redundant, and therefore was suppressed before the drawing
went to Punch." It is curious that with this gift, he should have contributed only once, so
far as I can ascertain, to the literary portion of Punch, and then merely some mock "Verses
for Pantomime Music"--strictly speaking, for the harlequinade--(January 4th, 1845), designed
to show the fatuous idiotcy of those compositions.

Contrary to what might have been expected in so prolific an artist, Leech never for a moment
entertained the sentiment not unusual among comic artists--"je prends mon bien là où je le
trouve." He was even diffident about accepting a suggestion for a joke. His own observation
gave him the vast majority of his "pictures of life and character," but he would occasionally
accept with a quiet undemonstrative smile some of the many proposals that were submitted to
him. You might find it in Punch next week, or next year; but if the giver were an artist too,
he would hesitate to make use of it, lest he might wrong a brother-pencil. He often figures
in his own cuts, as in "The Dismay of Mr. Jessamy on being told that he will spoil the whole
thing [private theatricals] if he doesn't Shave off his Whiskers" (Almanac, 1854--his own whiskers
which he always regarded with a sort of mock-tender pride.) To his own little son we owe the
delightful cut of the child who reminds the new nurse that he is one of those children who
can only be managed by kindness, "so please get me a cake and an orange;" like that other Punch
youngster who, aping mamma, faintly asks, "Is there such a thing as a bun in the house?" "Astonishingly
quick Leech was," says Mr. Silver, "to seize on any sight or subject that seemed to have some
humour in it. I can call to mind, for instance, how I chanced to see a chimney-sweep with his
hand held to his eyes, as he was passing a street-door while the mat was being shaken. I told
Leech of the incident; for, covered as he was with soot, the sweep seemed over-sensitive. In
a very few minutes the scene was sketched most funnily, and was then drawn on the wood. The
sketch hangs in my billiard-room, and they who please may turn to Punch and see the drawing.
Another time I recollect we noticed some big buoys which were just the shape of fishing-floats,
and which I said that Gulliver might have seen so used in Brobdingnag. 'Not a bad idea,' said
Leech, and he made a hasty sketch then. Next morning the result appeared upon the wood, and
soon afterwards in Punch, with a 'legend' which I quote from memory only:--'I s'pose you sometimes
catch some biggish fish here, eh, old Cockywax?' 'Why, yes; and them's the floats we uses;
see, young Cockywax'?"

From Millais he had many a joke; and when the two close friends were separated, the former
would send him sketches of the idea. Several of these Leech left behind him, having only taken
advantage of two--the protection that plaid is supposed to afford in the Highlands, when the
unhappy novice who puts it on wrestles with it in a high wind; and the device of a couple of
artists for defying the Scotch midges--a comic, balloon-like envelope for the head. From Dean
Hole came that immortal joke of the yokel at a great country dinner, who on tossing off his
liqueur-glass of Curaçoa, the first he has ever tasted, calls to the waiter that he'll "tak'
some o' that in a moog;" and it was from a passage in one of the Dean's letters to the effect
that in a long run he had only had three mishaps on his promising young chestnut, that Leech
invented the drawing of "A Contented Mind"--wherein the mud-bespattered young hopeful has increased
the number of falls to five. And he loved to watch the sons of his colleague, Gilbert Abbott
à Beckett--both of them in due time called to the Table--and to base upon the mischievous adventures
and the characteristic invention of the young pickles many a laughable drawing. They were the
originals of the boys who, with a ten-and-sixpenny box of tools and a sufficiency of nails,
in the absence of their parents put the furniture of the house in a state of thorough repair!!
And on a skating experience of one of them--Mr. Arthur à Beckett--comes that well-known design
of a youth at the mercy of a skate-tout at the ice-edge. "Look out!" he cries; "you are running
the gimlet into my heel!" "Never mind, sir," responds the man, persuasively; "better 'ave 'em
on firm!"

From Charles Dickens, from Mr. Frith, Mr. Holman Hunt, and Mr. Horsley, R.A., Leech also accepted
happy thoughts; and from an "Eton boy," the smart reply of a belle of a ballroom to the young
Oxford man who "couldn't get on there without women's society"--"Pity you don't go to a girls'
school, then!" The Eton boy claimed and received remuneration, to the amount of a couple of
guineas, which came out of Leech's generous pocket, accompanied by a present and good counsel--a
form of acknowledgment, however, which was "not to be taken as a precedent." Sometimes, too,
Leech would re-draw or touch up sketches of good jokes sent in by outsiders; but on such occasions
he, according to the usual practice of the Punch men, never signed the drawing so made.

The melancholy of Leech, which probably found relief in his more sarcastic and serious drawings,
was one of the predominant features of his character. Sadness and dejection are often the birthwrong
of the humorist, as we have seen in the cases of Gillray, Seymour, André Gill, and Labiche,
and many others of Punch's own day. But Leech's gravity belonged to a mind too well-balanced
to overreach itself, too genuine for false sentiment. Moreover, he "could be a merry fellow
when harmless fun was demanded." So says Sir John Millais, who after Thackeray, and perhaps
Percival Leigh, was the friend Leech loved the best--far more than any others of the Punch
Staff, cordial as his friendship with them was. Sometimes his depression would make him think,
says Dean Hole, that he was "wasting his time on unworthy objects and an inferior method,"
which was exactly what Kenny Meadows told him. It is true that the said Bohemian had, in a
soberer moment, assured him of his immeasurable superiority to Kenny's self; but as the wine
flowed, the truth came out of it, it appeared that Meadows considered his own illustrations
of Shakespeare of vastly greater account than the mere comic sketches of young John Leech.

Leech, it seemed, could be as humorous as he pleased, and as whimsical. When his children misbehaved,
he would correct them by making a sketch of their "naughty faces;" and he was always ready
to turn a joke upon himself. He made merciless fun of sea-sickness--yet what is there so comic
in sea-sickness, after all, that we always laugh at it, just as we laugh at the toothache,
which George Cruikshank was so fond of caricaturing?--the suffering, in both cases awful beyond
the power of words to express. One would almost be led to believe that Leech shared the immunity
of the robust scoffers whom one usually sees behind a big cigar on board the yacht or steamboat.
Yet when he crossed to Boulogne on a visit to Dickens, and was received with uproarious applause
from what Americans call the "side-walk committee," by reason of his superior greenness and
more abject misery, he was quite pleased, and said with the utmost gratification that he felt
he had made a great hit. His companionship with Dickens was frequent; and when, in 1848, he
was overthrown by a wave while bathing at Bonchurch, and received a slight concussion of the
brain, the novelist rendered him the greatest medical service. On that occasion and the week
after the cartoons were executed by Doyle and Newman respectively, while Thackeray filled the
space usually occupied by Leech's smaller cuts.

His prejudices were to some extent the prejudices of Thackeray. That he should have shared
Gilbert à Beckett's dislike of Jews was perhaps to be accounted for by his having in his youth
been detained on two occasions in "sponging-houses," though through no fault of his own; and
visiting the sins of the lowest upon the whole race, as is the orthodox practice, he displayed
towards them something of Alonzo Cano's ill-will and more than his power of ill-doing. Yet
they were honestly entertained, and acted upon according to the lights of Punch which at that
time were full aflame.

But these playful dislikes paled beside the hatred he bore to organ-grinders--a hatred as unrelenting
as the organ-grinders themselves. For this he had only too sound a reason, for it was they
who, grinding his overworked nerves, were destined literally to play him into his grave. As
early as 1843 he began his campaign against them in Punch, and he never relaxed it until his
death. Morbidly timid of all noise, he loved to stay at some quiet English seaside place, "where
the door-knockers were dieted to three raps a day;" but he writhed most under the sound of
the organ, and not Hogarth's Enraged Musician endured half the torture that Leech suffered
in physical and nervous agony. He appealed with his pencil to the law; he ridiculed the barbarous
persons, such as Lord Wilton, who "rather liked it;" he portrayed the effect of these tyrants
of the street upon the sick and on the worker; and he never spared the offenders themselves.
Once, indeed, he was goaded into showing one of these dirty persons leading a louse, like a
monkey, by a string; but after a few copies had been struck off (and included in the parcel
for Scotland), the printing-press was stopped, and the "realism" was cut from the block. From
the first contribution, in which an old lady was supposed to advertise for a professor of mesmerism--a
discovery much talked about at that time--in order to mesmerise all the organs in her street,
at so much per organ, down to the end, some scores of drawings were directed against his unnatural
enemy, who literally drove him from house to house. Even when he took final refuge at his delightful
residence, 6 The Terrace, Kensington--now, alas! removed to make way for showy shops--and fitted
it with double windows, he still could get no rest. Standing with Mr. Silver under the tree
beneath whose shade Thackeray, Keene, and Leech loved to foregather round his al fresco dinner-table,
I have hearkened to the pretty clink, clink, clink, of a far-distant smith as he smote his
hammer upon the anvil, and, wondering that so sweet a sound could trouble any man, I have realised
how shattered must have been the sufferer's nervous system as he neared his end.

When Mr. M. T. Bass, M.P., brought in his private Bill to regulate "street music," Mark Lemon
sent him an eloquent letter of support, in which he touchingly dwelt on the torments suffered
by his friend.

The artist only survived this appeal for half a year, and died before he could enjoy any relief
from Mr. Bass's meagre Bill. But the public was loud in denunciation of the nuisance when they
learned that he who had made their lives so much merrier for a quarter of a century had been
harassed into the grave. "Carlyle," wrote Mr. Moncure Conway, "who suffered from the same fraternity,
mingled with his sorrow for Leech some severe sermons against that kind of liberty which 'permitted
Italian foreigners to invade London and kill John Leech, and no doubt hundreds of other nervous
people who die and make no sign!'" Leech's last drawing appears on p. 188 (November 5th, 1864),
in which an Irishman is shown thoroughly enjoying the after-effects of a fight, his face having
been pummelled out of all recognition. It is full of fun and life and spirit, and gives no
hint that he who drew it would delight the world no more.

And when the news went forth that John Leech was dead, a hush seemed to fall on the country,
as it had done ten months before, when Thackeray died, and as it did again a few years after,
on the death of Dickens. The three men all died sudden deaths, and Leech felt and declared
that Thackeray's was the knell of his own. "I saw the remains of the poor dear fellow," he
said, "and, I assure you, I can hardly get over it. A happy or merry Christmas is out of the
question." What wonder, then, that on hearing that Leech had followed, Mrs. Thackeray Ritchie
should have exclaimed, "How happy my father will be to meet him!"

"I fancy Thackeray was tired of life," said Leech in his deep bass voice to his Punch colleague
Mr. Henry Silver. "At these words I wondered much," says the latter gentleman, "as any young
man might who failed to see beneath the surface of a loved and prospering life. 'I feel somehow
I sha'n't survive him long,' he added rather wearily; 'and I shouldn't much care either, if
it were not for my family.' Then, after a pause, he said more cheerfully, 'But I can do some
work yet. And at any rate, thank Heaven! they needn't send the hat round.'" But they had need,
and they did. After his death Punch made sturdy, repeated, and successful efforts, not only
to collect a fund for the artist's family, but also to make known the facts of his death-sale.

He was taken to the cemetery in the same hearse that had carried Douglas Jerrold to his last abode.

FOOTNOTES:

[50] See Punch, p. 237, Vol.

Three other names belong to the year 1841: Ashley, William Harvey, and Mr. Birket Foster--the
second distinguished landscape artist who may be said to have been raised upon Punch. Of the
first-named, nothing need be said, but that he contributed a single sketch and no more. William
Harvey, however, stands on a different footing, yet his employment on Punch is inexplicable.
He had no real humour, and, what is perhaps more to his credit, he pretended to none; nor did
he take pains, as so many do, to prove it. Kenny Meadows, we are told, used to rally him on
his excessive sense of gracefulness, which stood in the way of anything like truthful representation.
"Beauty," he would say, "is Harvey's evil genius, and grace his damnation." It hardly required
the couple of initials ("A" and "E" on pp. 144 and 146 of the first vol.), conceived and carried
out in the Birket Foster manner, with landscape backgrounds and field-sport symbols, to prove
that Nature had not intended the artist for a Punch draughtsman. He was far better fitted for
the illustration of "Knight's Pictorial Shakespeare" than for comic draughtsmanship. And when
he had spread consternation in the office by sending in a charge of twelve guineas for the
third wrapper, which he had been commissioned to design--money never being scarcer than at
that moment--the proprietors immediately became equally convinced that such was not his vocation,
and his connection with the paper ceased forthwith.

I said he drew "in the Birket Foster manner," for that young draughtsman, who was at the time
one of Landells' apprentices, had already begun to draw initials on p. 85 of Punch's first
volume--an "O," consisting of a laurel wreath with a Lifeguardsman charging through. These
initials--there were thirteen in 1841, eleven in the following year, and two in 1843--were
remarkable work for a boy of seventeen; and still more remarkable was the fact that he should
be entrusted, even at a pinch, with the execution of a cartoon. It is true that this was only
an adaptation of Cruikshank's plate of "Jack Sheppard cutting his name on the Beam"--a design
highly appreciated at a moment when the fortunes of Harrison Ainsworth's young housebreaker
were being followed with breathless interest by every section of society; and it is not less
a fact that the head of Lord John Russell was touched up by Henning. Still the achievement
is as remarkable as coming from an artist of Mr. Birket Foster's temperament, as those other
cartoons, executed in "The Censor" at a later period, by Professor Herkomer. But this was not
all he did, for to him are to be credited also a few miscellaneous illustrations, as well as
those extremely French-looking designs which he imitated, by order, from drawings by Gavarni
for a novelette by Lecourt (pp. 262, 263 and 275, Vol. I.). As an artist he was entirely untaught,
save for Brine's quaint advice, and for the counsel of Crowquill that in figure-drawing he
should make dots first for the head and chief joints, as an assistance. For a time he followed
these strange indications on the royal road to drawing, and on them, perhaps, he based to some
extent the illustrations which he made for book-covers, together with Charles Keene, for Mr.
Edmund Evans--who, it may not be out of place here to repeat, now so well known as the engraver
and publisher of Miss Kate Greenaway's picture books, was a fellow-pupil of Birket Foster's
with "Daddy" Landells. He, too, made a couple of drawings for Punch in 1842, when he was no
more than sixteen: the first a "blackie," entitled "Train'd Animals"--representing a trainful
of wild beasts (p. 108, Vol. III.), and the other an initial; and his name appears as well
as the engraver of one of "Phiz's" designs in "Punch's Valentines." It occurred to him a little
later on to buy up "remainders" of unsaleable novels, to employ clever artists to illustrate
some stirring scene of love, adventure, or revenge, and with this design on the boards to place
the book for sale on the railway bookstalls. His shrewdness met with a rich reward; the picture
sold the book; and it often happened that a book that had failed egregiously on its first appearance,
would run into two or three editions when presented as a railway novel with a cover sufficiently
startling or absorbing in its interest.

An unprecedented, and an unrepeated, incident occurred in 1842. In that year there appeared
a number of drawings by Gavarni (apart from those re-drawn by Mr. Birket Foster), and something
has been made by commentators of the early enterprise of the Editor in inviting the contributions
of the eminent French master of caricature. But as a matter of fact Gavarni was not invited
at all, nor did he ever draw for Punch. These blocks, and the one by Gagniet, had simply been
bought up by the publishers, and used after they had appeared in "Les Parisiens peints par
Eux-Mêmes" as well as in the English translation of 1840. The use of clichés, it should be
stated, has never since been resorted to. When Gavarni did make a prudence-visit to England
in 1847 he held aloof from Punch, perhaps on account of his former connection with "The Great
Gun." His principal achievement here was to offend the Queen, Thackeray, Dickens, and others,
by coolly ignoring their proffered hospitality and friendly advances.

In this same volume first appeared a notable quintet--Kenny Meadows, Alfred "Crowquill," W.
M. Thackeray, Sir John Gilbert, and "Phiz" (Hablôt Knight Browne).

Few men of his day enjoyed so great a vogue as Kenny Meadows. His pencil was for many years
in extraordinary demand; and although as an artist he could not stand against his great contemporary
George Cruikshank, his popularity--among publishers, at least--if not as great, was nearly
as extensive. His work is more than half forgotten now, but the memory of his name survives;
and to speak of "Kenny Meadows" is to recall the typical art of the illustrator and (such as
it was) of the comic draughtsman of the first half of the century.

Kenny Meadows--he dropped the preliminary "Joseph" for reasons of "professional distinction"--had
first met Douglas Jerrold, in company with Laman Blanchard, in Duncombe's shop, as early as
1828, and in due time was employed to illustrate "Heads of the People," which Jerrold edited
in 1840, and for which he had secured the co-operation of Thackeray, Leigh Hunt, Samuel Lover,
William Howitt, and other literary lights. Henry Vizetelly, who knew Meadows well, wrote to
me but a few months before his death of his acquaintance with the artist. "He was," said he,
"witty and epigrammatic in conversation. He was a singularly incorrect and feeble draughtsman,
but abounded with clever and often highly poetic ideas. Like most of the members of the Mulberry
and Shakespeare Clubs, he knew all the principal passages in Shakespeare by heart long before
he became an illustrator of the plays. Like many artists and literary men of the period, he
was always in financial straits. Every sixpence that he earned he handed over to his wife,
a quiet thriftful woman, sister of Archibald Henning, and she used to give him a small sum
whenever he spent his evenings abroad in company with Macready, Laman Blanchard, John Forster,
Jerrold, and others, at the Shakespeare Club. He was a little man with a feeble frame, and
much addicted to convivial society." He was, indeed, a boon-companion, generous and kind-hearted,
and a delightful raconteur--"happy, conversational Meadows," as Blanchard Jerrold calls him--when
at the club, and a jovial roystering Bohemian when he left it.

About the time that Punch was started, Kenny Meadows was living hard by College Place, Camden
Town, and one night gave a rollicking dinner to the members of the newly-formed Staff; but
Hine (from whom I had the story), as a sober man of peace and quiet, declined the invitation,
as was his wont, and the next day, meeting Meadows, was surprised to receive a very penitent
apology for their behaviour of the previous night. "What behaviour?" asked Mr. Hine, unconscious
of any possible cause of offence. "What! didn't you hear us? Where do you sleep?" "In front.
Why?" "Why? Because before breaking up at three this morning we said, 'Let's give Hine three
cheers to finish up with;' which we did, with an unearthly noise, and danced a solemn dance
on the pavement, and sang you songs fortissimo, and altogether made a diabolical uproar." "Never
heard a sound," said Hine. Meadows turned sorrowfully on his heel without a word, and for some
days could not get over his disappointment that, in spite of all their best endeavours, his
young friend's rest had been unbroken.

When his first two drawings appeared in "Punch's Valentines"--"Young Loves to Sell" and "The
Speculative Mamma"--Meadows was already fifty-one years old, with thirty-four more of conviviality
before him; he was, therefore, the Nestor of Punch's Staff, as well as its most distinguished
member. "Meadows was essentially valuable to Punch," says George Hodder, who by marriage had
become his nephew, "for the thoughtfulness of his designs, which were intended to portray something
more than a burlesque view of a current event or a popular abuse." His delight when he made
a hit was like that of a prize-winning boy; and he used to pride himself that his drawing of
a butterfly at the mouth of a cannon, typifying peace--published in Punch in February, 1844--inspired
Landseer with his celebrated picture entitled "Peace," in which, however, the butterfly was
superseded by a lamb.

Although he was excellent as a "general utility" man, who took as naturally to tragedy as he
did to farce, to subjects of squalor as to grace of beauty, to Shakespeare as to Punch, he
is not to be credited with any great sense of humour, his vis comica running rather to grotesqueness
than to real fun or wit. His intention was usually more admired than his achievement--in his
press work, at least; and the symbolic treatment of his subjects in certain of the cartoons
which he executed in 1842-3-4, such as his "Temperance Guy Fawkes," his Cruikshankian "Gin
Drop" and "Water Drop," "The Irish Frankenstein," and "The Bull Frog," are to be included among
Punch's early successes. But better than this sort of design he enjoyed work of a more decorative
type, in which grace and humour, as he understood them, might be introduced. Of this class
is his wrapper used throughout the fifth volume. (See p. 46.) But his "poetic fancy and inventive
genius," which aroused the enthusiasm of many others besides the appreciative John Timbs, were
not in harmony with Punch's character, nor was his fun sufficiently pointed and robust. Whilst
he remained he illustrated Jerrold's "Punch's Letters to his Son" and "Complete Letter-writer,"
which duly received the honour of a reprint; but he left in 1844, and straightway betook himself
to the hostile camp of "The Great Gun," which aspired to be Punch's chief rival, to "The Man
in the Moon," and other of the Jester's numerous thorns--for of such is the spirit of caricaturists.

The period of Alfred "Crowquill's" work corresponded with that of Meadows. Although a versatile
man, using his pen and pencil with equal facility and ability--the former, perhaps, more successfully
than the latter--Forrester (for that was his real name) was but an indifferent humorist. He
was of those who thought that fun could be imparted to a drawing by the simple expedient of
grotesque exaggeration of expression; and as a great admirer of Seymour's "Cockney humour,"
he was frequently pointless and stilted. Personally he was highly popular with the Staff, for
he was philosophically happy and jovial, and sang good songs, and was, moreover, greatly sought
after at a time when comic artists were few. He was cartoonist, too, in a small way, in the
second, third, and fourth volumes of Punch; but his chief merit lay in his jeux de mots, for
he was a good punster. Yet even his pictorial puns, good as they were, constituted little claim
on a paper which was steadily improving its Staff; and when he left, in 1844, his place was
easily and advantageously filled.

Passing over the name of Thackeray, who takes his place among the literary contributors, we
come to Sir John Gilbert. His work, though slight, has spread over a longer period than that
of any other Punch artist--save Sir John Tenniel, forty years later. His first contribution
was the frontispiece to the second volume for 1842, which also constituted its wrapper, and
was used as such for the monthly parts for many years. He continued with a few drawings to
"The Natural History of Courtship" and "Punch's Letters to his Son," but his most ambitious
effort was that representing the late Duke of Cambridge, coronet in hand, begging for public
money as a marriage portion for his daughter. But when Jerrold's fiat went forth, "We don't
want Rubens on Punch" young Gilbert turned his attention to the newly-started "Illustrated
London News," on which his services were warmly welcomed and continuously employed, with such
brilliant results to itself and to the black-and-white art in England. I was one day conversing
with a distinguished foreign artist on the comparative merits of Gilbert and Doré, whose fecundity
in their art was equal, and I ventured to assert the great artistic superiority of Gilbert.
"You are right!" cried my enthusiastic friend, with more judgment of art than accuracy of English
idiom; "Gilbert cocks Doré into a top-hat!"

Not for twenty-one years did he reappear in the pages of the London Charivari, until after
an interval in which he built up his reputation as the greatest draughtsman on wood that England,
and perhaps any country, has produced. Then he contributed the first illustration, in an admirable
spirit of caricature, to Mr. Burnand's "Mokeanna," and then again, after another nineteen years,
he made a full-page drawing for the Almanac of 1882, representing the unhappy plight of a knight
who, summoned hastily to the wars, cannot induce his new suit of armour to come together over
his fattened frame, even with the combined assistance of female relations and muscular retainers.

In this same year of 1842 Hablôt Knight Browne, overcoming his former reluctance, began to
draw for the paper. He drew its second wrapper (see p. 42)--an enormous improvement on Henning's--as
well as some beautiful little comic cuts exquisitely engraved (used to illustrate "A Shillingsworth
of Nonsense"), and a couple of "Punch's Valentines." In one of these--the Lawyer--the original
of Mr. Squeers may be seen in the character of an orthodox pettifogging attorney perched upon
a stool. But Punch could not support such twin stars as Leech and "Phiz," and the latter left
in 1844 for "The Great Gun," whose leading draughtsman he became. In the pages of "The Great
Gun" he illustrated Maxwell's "Memoirs of a London Latch-key;" and then, in 1850, he drew for
"Life, the Mirror of the Million." In the Punch volumes for 1842, 1844, and 1852, his hand
may be traced; and again in 1861, after his great illness, he turned once more to Punch. The
brave worker, who would not admit his stroke of paralysis, but called it rheumatism, could
still draw when the pencil was tied to his fingers and answered the swaying of his body. In
1861 are eleven of his sketches--initials, most of them; in 1862, but one or two; in the following
year, sixteen; in 1864, eleven; in 1865, five; and again in 1866, 1867, 1868, seven cuts, and
one in 1869; altogether, a little over three-score drawings, besides three full-page cuts in
the Pocket-book of 1850. But, for all that, "Phiz" died more than half forgotten. His biographer,
indeed, had never heard of his Punch work; and even the paper which had been so kind to him,
and dedicated on July 22nd, 1882, two graceful obituary stanzas to "delightful Phiz--immortal
Phiz," entirely forgot to mention that his facile pencil had been employed in Punch's service.

A single cartoon came from Henry Heath (Vol. III.), who was well enough known as a political
caricaturist through having made many such plates for Spooner, the publisher, in the Strand.
Heath emigrated to Australia, and Mr. R. J. Hamerton, who was soon to become a notable member
of the Punch corps, filled the place he left, signing his "B. H." (Bob Hamerton) to resemble
as closely as might be the initials of the old favourite. But when, later on, Punch work came
to Mr. Hamerton, the Spooner caricatures were dropped. A couple of unimportant contributions
sent in under the initials "J. R." complete the record for 1842.

It was through Jerrold's and Lemon's friend, Joe Allen, to whom he handed some of his pen-and-ink
drawings, that Mr. R. J. Hamerton secured his footing on Punch. This was in the middle of the
year, and in the opening number of the new volume appear his first contributions. For some
weeks they were signed "Shallaballa"--the itinerant Punch's first cry on his jumping up before
the public in his show, and apparently an appropriate pseudonym; but when the artist was reminded
by Mark Lemon of the real significance of the objectionable word, he abandoned it for the better-known
picture-rebus of his name--a Hammer on the side of a Tun.

The only meeting of the Punch men which he attended was that at the "Whistling Oyster," next
door to the "Crown," at the time when the musical bivalve, as narrated in the description of
the "Punch Club," was the talk of the town. Mr. Hamerton, who was introduced by Mark Lemon,
and who made the fantastic portrait of it which was published in the following number of Punch,
remembers Douglas Jerrold reciting on that occasion his version of the ingredients and constitution
of Punch, which was worked up and contributed by Horace Mayhew to the next volume, but, of
course, without the names attached, as here given:--

  The Spirit is "The Comic Blackstone"      (Gilbert à Beckett).

  The Acid is "The Story of a Feather"      (Douglas Jerrold).

  The Sweet is The Great "Saxon Suggestor"  (W. M. Thackeray).

  The Spice is "The Sub"                    (Horace Mayhew).

  The Water is The "Professor"              (Percival Leigh).

  And the Spoon is The "Editor"             (Mark Lemon).

Where, then, was the art?

Mr. Hamerton was one of the few Irishmen who have worked on the paper. He had begun to teach
drawing at a school in Co. Longford when he was but fourteen, and came to London to draw upon
stone under the eye of Charles Hullmandel, the father of the lithographic art in England. With
the exception of occasional incursions into oil and water colour--he was a popular member of
the British Artists half-a-century ago--and a few years' book-illustration for the London publishers,
"it was stone, stone, stone, till 1891, when the drawing on the huge stones became too much
for my old back." Like his life-long friend and contemporary, Hine, he was not of Punch Punchy--at
least, in respect to conviviality; and after a record of Staff service extending to 1844, with
fitful contributions up to 1848, he deserted the precincts of Whitefriars, and soon after renounced
wood-drawing in favour of his more lucrative employment. He had, however, already contributed
ten cartoons--striking for their handling, if not at first for their finish. The majority of
his subjects were Irish--such as the "Irish Ogre Fattening on the 'Finest Pisintry,'" "The
Shadow Dance," "King O'Connell at Tara," "Bagging the Wild Irish Goose," and so forth--and
terribly severe he was, as only an Irishman could be, on Daniel O'Connell and Lord Brougham.
He illustrated à Beckett's "Comic Blackstone;" but his masterpiece in wood-draughtsmanship
was his illustration of John Forster's "Life of Goldsmith" for Bradbury and Evans. Then after
a couple of contributions from "W. B."--W. Brown, whose "Comic Album" was deservedly popular
in its day, and whose "Statue to Jenkins" pleased Punch's readers greatly--and the cut signed
"B," attributed to Thomas Hood, and another anonymous contribution by "S," there came Richard
Doyle, one of the most notable acquisitions of the decade. He was the second son of the famous
"[HB]," and had done capital comic work of an amateur character while still a boy. His "Comic
English Histories," executed when he was only fifteen years of age, were published after his
death; but he was still young when he first became known to the public. He was possessed of
an extraordinary power of fanciful draughtsmanship; and his precocity is sufficiently proved
by his comic illustrations to Homer, wrought at the tender age of twelve, with real humour,
wealth of invention, and excellence of expression. His uncle, Mr. Conan, dramatic critic of
the "Morning Herald," showed his work to his friend Mark Lemon, and Lemon forthwith requested
Mr. Swain to instruct the youth in wood-draughtsmanship. So the engraver set forth with blocks
and pencils to this "certain clever young son" of the once mighty "HB," who was now in a fair
way of falling out of public notice. Arrived at Cambridge Terrace, he endeavoured to impart
to Richard Doyle the art and mystery of drawing on the wood--how to prepare his blocks, and
so forth, and to give such further information as might be required. But so nervous was the
youth, who was small and thin in person, and greatly agitated in mind and manner, that he persisted
in keeping his distance out of simple shyness, and literally dodged around the dining-room
table, altogether too excited to lend the slightest attention to the words of his mentor. In
due course, Mr. Swain tells me, the first drawing was delivered, "and a bad, smudgy thing it
was, too, altogether different from the work he almost immediately contributed for the Almanac
of that year." Doyle's first work in Punch consisted of the clever comic borders to the Christmas
number, one of which enclosed Hood's "Song of the Shirt;" but with the illustration to the
rhymed version of "Don Pasquale" he made his actual début.

He was not promoted at once to the position of cartoonist; for the first six months he contributed
only one big cut to five of Leech's, and his proportion during several years that followed
did not exceed one in three. His first cartoon, entitled "The Modern Sisyphus"--representing
Sir Robert Peel, as the tormented one, engaged in rolling the stone (O'Connell) up the hill,
with Lord John Russell and others, as the Furies, looking on--appeared on March 16th, 1844;
and from that time onwards his work rapidly increased in volume. His initial-letters--an invention
further developed later on by C. H. Bennett, Mr. Ernest Griset, and Mr. Linley Sambourne--and
his cartoons were reinforced by the famous series of "Brown, Jones, and Robinson," "Mr. Pips
hys Diary," "Bird's-eye Views of English Society," and "Ye Manners and Customs of Ye Englyshe,"
their manner of presentation having been created by the artist, who was forthwith dubbed by
his comrades "Professor of Mediæval Design." When Doyle was first called to the Table, his
punctilious father did not show any enthusiasm, being in some doubts, apparently, as to the
supposed wild recklessness of those savage orgies. He wrote to the Proprietors, hoping that
they would not insist upon it for a time, as his son's health was not robust. A little later
Doyle himself wrote stiffly to protest against his real name having been printed on the cover
of Punch contrary to his distinct request to Mark Lemon, who had promised to retain the name
by which he was already known to the public--"Dick Kitcat"--as in the etched plates to Maxwell's
"Hector O'Halloran." But the demand was not persisted in.

"Dicky" Doyle continued to work regularly for the paper, and his monogram signature, with a
"dicky" either perched upon the top or pecking on the ground close by, was rarely absent from
a single number, when the Popery scare--which had seized the popular mind towards the end of
1849--infected Punch with extraordinary virulence. So long as Mark Lemon confined his cartoons
and his text to the general question of "Papal Aggression," Doyle, who was a devout Irish Catholic,
held his peace; but when the very doctrine of the faith was attacked, and the Pope himself
personally insulted, he severed himself regretfully but determinedly from the paper. Anterior
to this, Doyle had remonstrated, but had been reminded that he himself had been permitted to
caricature Exeter Hall and all its ways, so that he could not complain if the tables were turned
upon his own party. Jerrold and Thackeray, says Mr. Everitt, sought to dissuade him in vain.

But when Doyle resigned, for reasons which earned him the respect of all who heard of them,
it was not realised how strong was the undercurrent of feeling within the Punch office. It
is true that at the bottom of what I may call the "Punch Aggression" were Jerrold and the Proprietors;
and that the onslaught of the one, with the encouragement of the others, so profoundly wounded
Doyle as to force him into sacrificing lucrative employment, and condemning him in the result
to a life of toil. But for once in his career Doyle was guilty of behaviour which, if not inexcusable
in the circumstances, was certainly indefensible. He left the paper in the lurch. His letter
of resignation was sent in on November 27th, he having allowed the Editor to think that the
blocks for the Almanac, already overdue, had all been completed; and when it was discovered
that they had not been done, and that nothing was forthcoming, consternation reigned in the
office. No doubt the revenge was sweet, but it was ill-judged; for while no Catholic member
of the Staff has ever raised his voice in its justification, Doyle's conduct served but to
increase the bitterness of the anti-Catholic feeling in Punch's Cabinet, and perhaps to produce
attacks more intemperate than any that had gone before. And, moreover, it rendered more difficult
the position of others of the same faith who became members of the Staff.

So Doyle quitted the paper at the close of 1850, yet his hand was seen in its pages in 1857,
1862 (four cuts), and 1864. This was a question of "old stock"--a matter which often crops
up in Punch: it is not a unique circumstance to see a sketch appear many years after it was
drawn, and even when the hand that has drawn it has turned to dust. In 1883 there appeared
a cut by Mr. Sambourne which was made fifteen years before; and in 1894 there was published
a sketch by R. B. Wallace (of the late Lord Beaconsfield) a year after the artist died and
fourteen years after he had ceased to draw for the paper.

But when Doyle left Punch he would draw for none of its rivals. With the exception of the single
lapse already alluded to, his conduct was always high-minded and generous; and his virtue and
nobility of character have been testified to by all his friends. He declined the offer of a
large sum to draw for a well-known periodical as he disapproved of the principles of its conductors;
and on similar grounds he refused to illustrate a new edition of Swift. Mr. Holman Hunt has
recorded his testimony as to his sterling worth. "Dicky Doyle," he tells me, "I knew affectionately.
John Leech and Doyle were never very cordial, Doyle's staunch Romanism separating them. While
so rigid and consistent a religionist, he was one of the most charitable of men, and would
never be a party to any scandal, however much it had been provoked. I am afraid that no portrait
was ever painted of him, certainly none showing his delightfully amusing laugh, which always
seemed to be indulged apologetically--with the face bent into the cravat and the double chin
pressed forward."

Doyle's great misfortune as an artist was that his father, cultivating the son's fancy at the
expense of his training, not only would allow him no regular teaching, but would not permit
him to draw from the model--nothing but "observance of Nature" and memory-drawing. The result
was that Doyle remained an amateur to the end--an extremely skilful one, whose shortcomings
were concealed in his charming illustrations and imaginative designs, but were startlingly
revealed in his larger work and in his figure-drawing. As a draughtsman he was usually feeble,
though graceful; his effects, technically speaking, were constantly false, and his drawing
often as poor as Thackeray's. He was saved by his charm and sweetness, his inexhaustible fun
and humour,[51] his delightful though superficial realisation of character, and his keen sense
of the grotesque. When he died in December, 1883, Punch devoted to his memory a poem in which
his artistic virtues are generously appreciated, but not a word is said as to the parting of
their ways. From this tribute, this "reconciliation after death," I transcribe one stanza:--

  "Turning o'er his own past pages,
    Punch, with tearful smile, can trace
  That fine talent's various stages,
    Caustic satire, gentle grace,
  Feats and freaks of Cockney funny--
    BROWN, and JONES, and ROBINSON;
  And, huge hive of Humour's honey,
    Quaint quintessence of rich fun,
  Coming fresh as June-breeze briary
    With old memories of our youth,
  Thrice immortal Pips's Diary!
    Masterpiece of Mirth and Truth!"

In 1844 the versatile artist-dramatist, Watts Phillips, first declared himself in Punch with
a few examples of his art, which George Cruikshank had fostered. They lasted up to 1846, but
amounted to very little. He gave more attention to "Puck," of which Chatto was the editor;
and when, a few years afterwards, he joined "Diogenes" as its cartoonist, he gave full rein
to his undoubted talent.

In the same year Richard Doyle's brother Henry--better known as a distinguished member of the
Royal Hibernian Academy, and best of all as the grave and extremely able Director of the National
Gallery of Ireland--made a number of small cuts for Punch, which were published in 1844 and
the following years; but as I was informed, at the time of his death, by his elder brother
James, now also dead (the chronicler, and the compiler of the "Official Baronage of England"):
"The Punch episode was the merest child's play to him. His line, chosen years before, was sacred
or poetic art; and his illustrations to Telemachus, done before this time, remarkable for invention
and colour, were greatly admired by Prince Albert. That he drew for Punch at one time is, of
course, true; but the mention of it gives a false impression of his taste and principal work
at that period." Yet the spirit of humour was strong within him, for he was one of the "Great
Gunners" in 1845; and from 1867 to 1869, when he was appointed to Dublin, he was cartoonist
for "Fun," signing with a Hen, or "Fusbos."

Thomas Onwhyn, best known, nowadays, perhaps, by his "extra illustrations" to "Pickwick" and
"Nicholas Nickleby," and by his plates to "Valentine Vox" and Cockton's other novels, began
to contribute a few blocks to Punch--a fact which has hitherto been denied. His first drawing,
published on p. 130, Vol. XIII. (1847), illustrates an article by Gilbert à Beckett, entitled,
"The Friends Reconciled." The next was a "Social," on p. 230 of the same volume, representing
a hatter's wiles and their victim. But Onwhyn was better used to the etching-needle than the
pencil, and his drawing on wood was hard and unsympathetic, and his figures were usually rather
strained than funny. About this time he was retiring from his position as a popular illustrator
of books. Throne Crick's "Sketches from the Diary of a Commercial Traveller," embellished by
Onwhyn, had just appeared; and the artist was beginning to bring out his series of albums of
plates, big and small, on all sorts of humorous subjects. The time was, therefore, appropriate
at which to embark on independent illustration in Punch. But in the following year he contributed
not more than a sketch or two; and thenceforward, until he finally laid down his pencil in
1870, he confined his artistic efforts to his own happy ideas with but few exceptions--such
as "Welcome, a Charade; by W. Shakesides" (1850). Onwhyn died so late as 1886.

For four years, if we except two or three unimportant cuts contributed by E. J. Burton in 1847-8-9,
no new name appears upon the draughtsman's roll. Then John Macgregor--the celebrated "Rob Roy"--who
had begun to contribute paragraphs and short articles in 1847, commenced adding sketches, such
as his "Silence in the Gallery," in January, 1848. "Prince Albert's Hat" was also his, and
others besides; and it is worth remarking that the proceeds of these sketches and articles
were given to the police-courts, wherewith the magistrates might assist poor cases.

The year 1850 became of the first importance in the history of Punch. Not that William McConnell
and his gentle art would make the year remarkable, for his early defection from Punch, and
his premature death from consumption, cut short a career which promised considerably more than
it achieved. Mr. Sala tells me that McConnell was a handsome little fellow, bright, alert,
and full of originality. He was always exceptionally well-dressed--and with good reason, for
his father, on coming over from Ireland and settling in Tottenham Court Road, resumed his trade
of tailor. The youth sent in some sketches, which were highly thought of by Mark Lemon. He
was turned over to Mr. Swain for some instruction in drawing on the wood, and subsequently
took up his residence in the engraver's house for a time; but, not living long enough to prove
his individuality, he remained to the end an imitator of Leech. Perhaps that was the reason
that he drew so small a salary from Punch; at any rate, he always resented what he considered
to be the contumelious and shabby treatment meted out to him by Mark Lemon. But for such money
as he did receive, it must be admitted that he gave full value in the fierceness of his cartoons
on Louis Napoleon. He did much book illustration, besides drawing for the Press, serious and
comic--his Punch work including a couple of cartoons in 1852, among a great number of "socials."
His last appearance was in July of that year. He was a good and improving draughtsman, especially
of horses; and he revelled in beggars, "swells," and backgrounds.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great acquisition of the year was John Tenniel. The paper had been left by Doyle, as I
have explained, without its Almanac blocks, and it found itself, moreover, without a second
cartoonist, and, what was quite as important at the moment, without an artist of distinctly
decorative ability, who would provide the fanciful initial-letters, headings, and title-pages
which have always been a feature in Punch. The circumstances of his joining the paper Sir John
once recounted to me in conversation, with that sort of apologetic humour and true modesty
that are characteristic of him:--

"I never learned drawing, except in so far as attending a school and being allowed to teach
myself. I attended the Royal Academy Schools after becoming a probationer, but soon left in
utter disgust of there being no teaching. I had a great idea of High Art; in fact, in 1845
I sent in a sixteen-foot-high cartoon for Westminster Palace. In the Upper Waiting Hall, or
'Hall of Poets,' of the House of Lords, I made a fresco, but my subject was changed after my
work had been decided on and worked out. At Christmas, 1850, I was invited by Mark Lemon to
fill the place suddenly left by Doyle, who with very good reasons for himself--that of objection
to the "Papal Aggression" campaign suddenly severed his connection with Punch. Doyle had left
them in great straits--the Pocket-book and Almanac to come out--and I was applied to by Lemon,
on the initiation of Jerrold, to fill the breach. This was on the strength of my illustrations
to Æsop's Fables, which had recently been published by Murray. I did the title and half-title
to the nineteenth volume, as well as the first page-border to the Almanac, together with a
few initials and odds and ends for the end of that volume, and the first illustration to the
next; but only the half-title, title, and tail-piece were signed. My first cartoon was that
facing page 44 in the twentieth volume; and, only signing occasionally for the first month
or two, I went on from time to time doing cartoons.

"As for political opinions, I have none; at least, if I have my own little politics, I keep
them to myself, and profess only those of my paper. If I have infused any dignity into cartoon-designing,
that comes from no particular effort on my part, but solely from the high feeling I have for
art. In any case, if I am a 'cartoonist'--the accepted term--I am not a caricaturist in any
sense of the word. My drawings are sometimes grotesque, but that is from a sense of fun and
humour. Some people declare that I am no humorist, that I have no sense of fun at all; they
deny me everything but severity, 'classicality,' and dignity. Now, I believe that I have a
very keen sense of humour, and that my drawings are sometimes really funny!

"I have now been working regularly at the weekly cartoons for Punch for close on thirty years
(from 1862),[52] missing only two or three times from illness. In all that time I have hardly
left London for more than a week; yet I enjoy wonderful health, doubtless to be attributed
to regular riding. I carry out my work thus: I never use models or Nature for the figure, drapery,
or anything else. But I have a wonderful memory of observation--not for dates, but anything
I see I remember. Well, I get my subject on Wednesday night; I think it out carefully on Thursday,
and make my rough sketch; on Friday morning I begin, and stick to it all day, with my nose
well down on the block. By means of tracing-paper--on which I make all alterations of composition
and action I may consider necessary--I transfer my design to the wood, and draw on that. The
first sketch I may, and often do, complete later on as a commission. Indeed, at the present
time I have a huge undertaking on hand, in which I take great delight--the finishing of scores
of my sketches, of which I have many hundreds. They are for a friend--an enthusiastic admirer,
if I may be permitted to say so. Well, the block being finished, it is handed over to Swain's
boy at about 6.30 to 7 o'clock, who has been waiting for it for an hour or so, and at 7.30
it is put in hand for engraving. That is completed on the following night, and on Monday night
I receive by post the copy of next Wednesday's paper. Although case-hardened in a sense, I
have never the courage to open the packet. I always leave it to my sister, who opens it and
hands it across to me, when I just take a glance at it, and receive my weekly pang. My work
would be difficult to photograph on to the wood, as it is all done in pencil; the only pen-and-ink
work I have done, so far, being for the Almanac and Pocket-book.[53]

"As I never have a model, I never draw from life, always when I want a portrait, a uniform,
and so on, from a photograph, though not in quite the same spirit as Sambourne does. I get
a photograph only of the man whom I want to draw, and seek to get his character. Then, if the
photograph is in profile, I have to 'judge' the full face, and vice versá; but if I only succeed
in getting the character, I seldom go far wrong--a due appreciation is an almost infallible
guide. I had the opportunity of studying Mr. Gladstone's face carefully when he did me the
honour of inviting me to dinner at Downing Street, and I have met him since; but I fancy, after
my 'Mrs. Gummidge' cartoon and 'Janus,' I don't deserve to be honoured again! His face has
much more character and is much stronger than Mr. Bright's. Mr. Bright had fine eyes and a
grand, powerful mouth, as well as an earnest expression; but a weak nose--artistically speaking,
no nose at all--still, a very intellectual face indeed."

Thus it was not only Nature, but the Pope, who marked out Tenniel for the position of Punch's
Cartoonist--the greatest "Cartoonist" the world has produced. Had the Pope not "aggressed"
by appointing archbishops and bishops to English Sees, and so raised the scare of which Lord
John Russell and Mr. Punch really seem to have been the leaders, Doyle would not have resigned,
and no opening would have been made for Tenniel. Sir John, indeed, was by no means enamoured
of the prospect of being a Punch artist when Mark Lemon made his overtures to him. He was rather
indignant than otherwise, as his line was high art and his severe drawing above "fooling."
"Do they suppose," he asked a friend, "that there is anything funny about me?" He meant, of
course, in his art, for privately he was well recognised as a humorist; and little did he know,
in the moment of hesitation before he accepted the offer, that he was struggling against a
kindly destiny.

John Tenniel was only sixteen years old when his first oil picture was exhibited at the Suffolk
Street Galleries, and he soon became recognised, not only as a painter, but as a book and magazine
illustrator of unusual skill. But he and Keene had already proclaimed themselves the humorists
they were by the production of the "Book of Beauty," to which much public attention was drawn
when the sketches contained in it were exhibited and sold. They had been fellow-students at
the life class, and in the year 1844 were both intimate visitors at the house of their friends,
Mr. and Mrs. Barrett. After dinner, when the lamp was brought in, the two young artists would
amuse themselves, together with their host, by making drawings in coloured chalks. Mr. Barrett,
it may be said, was a thin man, signing himself "5-12ths," in recognition of the nobler proportions
of Mrs. Barrett, unquestionably his "better half." Keene chose the "Signs of the Zodiac," to
begin with, as the subject of his admirable burlesques, Tenniel having already selected quotations
from Shakespeare, history, poetry, and so forth, the humour which he infused into them being
equal to anything he afterwards produced in Punch. But it may interest the present owners of
these highly-prized productions to know that those who produced them thought very little of
them as art, while Sir John expressed the greatest surprise that in their rubbed condition
they should attract any notice whatever. As early proofs, however, of the comic faculty of
two of Punch's giants, they were interesting and valuable designs; while, so far as Sir John's
work was concerned, they were the forerunners of the extremely humorous illustrations of Shakespearian
quotations with which he advanced his reputation and his position on the paper.

No sooner had the severe young classicist determined to accept the position offered him in
Punch's band, than Mr. Swain was requested to wait upon him in Newman Street, and instruct
him in the art of drawing upon wood. But he found that Tenniel, the illustrator of the Rev.
Thomas James's edition of Æsop's Fables, published by John Murray in 1848, was already a brilliant
expert. The accomplished young draughtsman soon took keen delight in the smooth face of a block,
and at once began--and ever continued--to demand a degree of smoothness that was the despair
of Swain to procure. Tenniel, indeed, always drew with a specially-manufactured six-H pencil--which
appears more impressive with its proper style of "H H H H H H"--and so delicate was the drawing
that, firm and solid as were the lines, it looked as if you could blow it off the wood. The
result is that Swain has always interpreted Sir John Tenniel's work, not simply facsimile'd
it, aiming rather at producing what the artist intended or desired to have, than what he actually
provided in his exquisite grey drawings. So Swain would thicken his lines while retaining their
character, just as he would reduce Mr. Sambourne's, particularly in the flesh parts, and otherwise
bring the resources of the engraver's art to bear upon the work of the masters of the pencil.
Doubtless the artists might deplore the "spoiling" of their lines; but pencil greys are not
to be reproduced in printer's ink--they must be "rendered." And though, as artists, draughtsmen
may groan under the transitional process, they realise that in submitting their work to the
wood-cutter's craft, they must take its drawbacks along with its advantages.

The first drawing by Tenniel in the bound volume is, as he says, the frontispiece to the second
half-yearly volume for 1850, but his actual first contribution the initial on p. 224 of that
volume. Perhaps the most notable thing about it is the extraordinary resemblance between the
artist's work at the beginning and at the end of his career. Of course, it is much "tighter;"
it is much younger. But the hand and method are strangely unchanged. It is beautiful in its
exquisite precision and its refinement, and altogether superior in its character to what its
creator, in a spirit of severe self-criticism, chooses to believe. "My first cartoon," he wrote
to me, "was 'Lord Jack the Giant-Killer'--and awfully bad it is; in fact, all my work, at that
particular time, NOW seems to me about as bad as bad could be, and fills me with wonder and
amazement!!" But this cartoon, continuing the Papal campaign so hateful to Doyle, by showing
Lord John Russell with his sword of truth and liberty attacking the crozier-armed Cardinal
Wiseman, was greatly inferior to the smaller contributions. His improvement, however, was rapid.
Tenniel's first "half-page social" is on p. 218 of the same volume; while in 1852 we have his
first superb Lion, and his first obituary cartoon. Gradually he took over the political big
cut, which Leech was happy to place in his hands; but during the long years that they worked
together the two men were admirable foils to one another. Leech sketched and Tenniel drew;
Leech gave us farce and drama, and Tenniel, high comedy and tragedy; and the freedom of the
one heightened the severer beauties of the other. And when Leech died, his friend continued
the labour alone. Except in 1864, 1868, and 1875-6-7-8, in which last-named year he took his
first holiday from Punch work and went with Mr. Silver to Venice--(during his illness or absence
Charles Keene contributed thirteen cartoons[54])--and again in 1884 and 1894 (when Mr. Sambourne
twice took over the duty), he has never, from that day to this present time of writing, missed
a single week. Nearly two thousand cartoons, initials innumerable, "socials," double-page cartoons
for the Almanac and other special numbers, and two hundred and fifty designs for the Pocket-books--such
is the record of the great satirist's career; and the only change has been in the direction
of freedom of pencil and breadth of artistic view.

Of his work little need be said here, for in its main bearings it has already been fully considered.
But acknowledgment must at least be made of how, with all his sense of fun and humour, Sir
John Tenniel has dignified the political cartoon into a classic composition, and has raised
the art of politico-humorous draughtsmanship from the relative position of the lampoon to that
of polished satire--swaying parties and peoples, too, and challenging comparison with the higher
(at times it might almost be said the highest) efforts of literature in that direction. The
beauty and statuesque qualities of his allegorical figures, the dignity of his beasts, and
the earnestness and directness of his designs, apart from the exquisite simplicity of his work
at its best, are things previously unknown in the art of which he is the most accomplished
master, standing alone and far ahead of any of his imitators. The Teutonic character and the
academic quality of his work, modified by the influence of Flaxman and the Greeks, are no blemishes;
one does not even feel that he draws entirely from memory. Indeed, the things are completely
satisfying as the work of a true artist, and--a quality almost as grateful and charming as
it was previously rare--of a gentleman.

Yet this practice of drawing from memory has its drawbacks; for the things remembered are apt
to grow old-fashioned. The Flying Dutchman was running when Sir John's locomotive still had
the odour of Puffing Bilfy about it. His indifference to that "actuality" which is the characteristic
of Mr. Sambourne has often raised the howl of the specialist. When in an excellently drawn
cartoon full of point (November, 1893), entitled "A Bicycle made for Two," he grafted the features
of a modern roadster on to the type of 1860, the cycling world fluttered in a manner that must
have been very encouraging to the artist. His machine, they said, was the most wonderful one
ever placed on the market. Sir H. H. Fowler, it was said, was sitting on a half-inch tube without
a saddle, and "working with his heels on pedals shaped like a Mexican gaucho's stirrup"--but
his critics had clearly never seen a gaucho's stirrup. "Nor has the lady--riding behind, instead
of in front--better accommodation, being in suspension over a frame that lacks a backstay,
and above a wheel that buckles under her weight; while the handles are thrown up instead of
down, and their bars so slender that they must inevitably break." The gear-case is on one side
of the frame and the chain on the other, and the frame itself was a marvel of ingenuity misapplied.
Thus did the cyclists moan in many newspapers, taking the matter au grand sérieux, with quite
unusual regard for mechanical accuracy, and a total disregard for the political allusion and
point. Similarly in January of the same year the "Forlorn Maiden" of trade was shown lying
across the railway lines while an engine is bearing down upon her. But "there are five rails
in sight, all at equal distances apart, though the railway gauge is four feet eight inches
and a half, and the locomotive is running on the six-foot way." The girl, too, stretches across
it, and spans it from waist to ankles, not counting a bend at the knees, so that at the lowest
estimate she is ten feet high. This violated the public conscience even more than the fact
that the engine rushes along the inside line of the two sets of rails; and they declared that
never before had the maxim ars longa been more triumphantly indicated than in the maiden's
figure. But what of it all? Is it not a striking commentary on our English temperament, that
while an inaccuracy of a purely mechanical description raises the protests of thousands who
have no idea beyond the parts of a bicycle or the width of a railway gauge, a score of artistic
beauties pass unnoticed and unchallenged?

And so Tenniel worked his way upwards. The fact that in a fencing bout he had partially lost
his sight, through the button of his father's foil dropping off, whereupon he received the
point in his eye, was not the slightest deterrent. He regarded it merely as an annoying, though
not a very important, incident. Being satisfied that the Almighty had only given us two eyes
as a measure of precaution, to provide against such vexatious little accidents as he had experienced,
he went on working as if nothing had happened. "It's a curious thing, is it not," he said one
day to the writer, "that two of the principal men on Punch, du Maurier and I, have only two
eyes between them?" Yet it only made him the more careful. Free from mannerism, he never allowed
carefulness to interfere with fun, and his cartoon of Britannia discovering the source of the
Nile, and of Lord Beaconsfield as a peri entering the Paradise of Premiership, are among the
memorably funny things of Punch. His elevation to the leading position on the paper has thus
been gradual and certain; not of his own assumption, however, but the ready tribute of his
colleagues, who have always regarded him not only as the great artist, but as the link incarnate
of the tradition of Punch of the present with the past. So he is the favourite of the band,
to whom he is the beloved "Jack[=i]d[=e]s" of Shirley Brooks's christening. It was Mark Lemon
who, at the Dinner, first applied to him the burlesque line--"No longer Jack, henceforth Jack[=i]d[=e]s
call;" but it was Brooks who confirmed the practice of according to him the sobriquet which
Punch (p. 148, Vol. XLV.) had previously conferred on Lord John Russell, "England's Briefest Peer."

It was a startling proof of his extraordinary, and by him half-unsuspected, popularity, that
when Tenniel's knighthood became known the honour was received with loud and general applause--with
an enthusiasm quite unusual in its command of popular approval. "I am receiving shoals of letters
and telegrams," he wrote to me on the day of the announcement; "I suppose you know the reason
Y." It is said that Lord Salisbury had intended to make the recommendation himself, but that
the nomination was delayed and forgotten; but when Mr. Gladstone came into office the new Premier
repaired the neglect of the old, and at the same time acknowledged the steady support which
Punch had offered to the Whig policy. By the general public it was regarded as an appreciation
of the man who was the personification of the good-humoured and the loftier side of political
life--who had brought the Punch spirit round to something a good deal better and higher than
he found it, blending fun with classic grace, and humour with dignity. To the art world it
was the recognition of that "Black-and-white" drawing which has been the glory of England and
the Cinderella of the Royal Academy of Arts. It was in this sense that Sir John Tenniel accepted
the distinction. But it was to "Jack[=i]d[=e]s" that the Punch Staff drank when Mr. Agnew proposed
his health at the Dinner following the announcement of the nomination; it was "dear old John
Tenniel" that the Arts Club toasted when, with Mr. Val Prinsep, R.A., in the chair and Mr.
du Maurier in the vice-chair, the new knight was the honoured guest of his club, and received
its congratulations with the modest dignity and kindly good taste characteristic of him. And
it was "good Sir John," the cartoonist--who has also been, at extremely rare intervals, a Punch
writer too (see Punch, p. 56, Vol. XX.)--who was celebrated by the pen of Mr. Milliken--"the
Pride of Mr. Punch and the delight of the British Public."

FOOTNOTES:

[51] It may be stated that Doyle contributed a ewe-lamb of literature to Punch (May 13th, 1843),
entitled "High Art and the Royal Academy" (Vol. XVI., p. 197).

[52] This conversation took place in April, 1889.

[53] Since 1892, I may explain, Sir John Tenniel and Punch have moved with the times. Sir John
now draws his cartoons upon the Chinese-whitened surface of cardboard, and they are photographed
on the block in the usual way.

[54] But when, in 1866, Keene contributed three cartoons, Sir John Tenniel's appeared side
by side. This was the result of a revived experiment to add to the attractions of the paper
by giving two cartoons--an experiment resumed in later years in the case of Mr. Sambourne and
Mr. Furniss.

An amateur who signed with cross-pipes, and who appeared five times in the following year,
was the one other contributor of 1850; and then 1851 was distinguished by the enlistment of
the prolific draughtsman who at first used three running legs--quaintly accepted as the Manx
arms--as his sign-manual. This was Captain Henry R. Howard, the son of a country gentleman,
born at Watford, where he lived in the same house for over fifty years. He was always sketching
from a child; and being persuaded by his friends to "do some of those for Punch," he sent a
few samples to the Editor, but without much hope of success. They brought an immediate invitation
to call upon Mark Lemon, who told him, after seeing his pencil sketches, that he might draw
for them, but not on paper, on wood; and learning that he had had no such experience, referred
him for instruction to the courtesy of Leech and Tenniel, whose senior he was by six years.
He was not entirely without artistic education, having studied in Hanover under a pupil of
Benjamin West's. "You must draw skeletons," said Herr Ramburg. "But I only want to draw landscapes,"
pleaded the youth. "Then you must draw skeletons first," replied the artist; "it is the only
way to draw landscapes."

After securing Lemon's favour Captain Howard drew scores of comic humanised beasts and birds
in the form of initials and decorations. At last, after some years, Lemon proposed a change,
when Howard quietly remarked, "I've been wondering how long you'd go on taking those things;
I should have thought you were sick of them. I am." Meanwhile he had changed his signature
of the Manx legs--he had just been sojourning in the island when he adopted them--as Lemon
represented it as Leech's opinion that it was sometimes unnecessarily like his own wriggling
signature; and he had adopted in substitution the little trident that figured in the paper
for fifteen years. When Leech died, Captain Howard aspired to be--in part, at least--his successor;
but although he was now drawing figure-subjects, and had an inexhaustible stock of jokes and
fun, he was told, to his bitter disappointment, that new blood was wanted; and the great mantle
which had fallen was now drawn round the shoulders of Charles Keene and Mr. du Maurier. Captain
Howard then practically retired. Although in the first year of his contributions he was £30
out of pocket by his Punch work, as he bought his own blocks instead of claiming them from
Swain, he was soon making £100 a year from the paper. Just before he retired an officer recently
returned from India expressed the desire to draw also for Punch as a profession. "I hear,"
said he, "that Leech makes £1,500 a year out of it." "So that you would be satisfied with £1,200?"
asked Captain Howard. His friend admitted that even the inferior sum would be acceptable. "Very
well," replied Howard encouragingly; "come and dine with me, and I'll show you by my books
that my Punch income last year was just twelve pounds!"

Captain Howard's work, though clever and ingenious, was weak. Its humour, often fresh enough,
was never very pronounced; nor did the draughtsman's hand ever become that of a master. In
1853 he had made no fewer than sixty-six cuts, and about doubled that number each year up to
1867, when, with only two drawings in the volume, he finally vanished from Punch's pages. Three
years later there was printed an initial by him, representing a comic hammer-fish (p. 265,
Vol. LIX.), but this belonged to "old stock;" and it marks the failure of its author's long-sustained
effort to obtain a recognised position in the front rank of the artistic Staff. He died 31st
August, 1895.

A contemporary of his was G. H. Thomas, brother of one of the founders of the "Graphic," and
a popular painter of the day, who received much employment from the Queen. Mark Lemon was very
anxious to secure the services of so admirable a draughtsman; but Thomas, who was trying to
shake himself free from wood-drawing in favour of oil-painting, showed little responsive enthusiasm.
He did, however, contribute a couple of drawings--one of them a large head-piece to the preface,
representing a feast given to Punch on his twenty-first volume day. In it he is supported by
the Queen and Court, and at the round table are the representatives of the nations. It is not
a happy effort, and is clearly inspired by Doyle--whose fancy the Editor was still seeking
to replace; and, moreover, it is poorly engraved; but it is as full of figures as of incident.
Then came C. H. Bradley, who seldom got beyond initials and trifles of large heads on little
bodies, being only once or twice promoted to "socials" during the nine years of his connection
with the paper. On occasion he showed real humour, while his artistic merit seems to have owed
most of what excellence it possessed to the study of Tenniel's work. Bradley, whose monogram
might easily be mistaken by the unwary for that of C. H. Bennett, who followed eight years
later, executed but five-and-thirty cuts between 1852 and 1860.

Punch was ten years old when the hand of Charles Keene, but not Charles Keene himself, was
introduced to the Editor, through the instrumentality of Mr. Henry Silver. Keene had at first
been intended for the law, and afterwards had spent a short period in an architect's office.
But he decided to throw himself into art; and in order to learn engraving and drawing on the
wood, he followed the practice of the day (such as had been adopted by Leech, William Harvey,
Fred Walker, Mr. Birket Foster, Mr. Walter Crane, and other of Punch's artists), and apprenticed
himself to an engraver--Whymper, for choice. Then he studied along with his comrade Tenniel
and other incipient geniuses at the Clipstone Street Academy, and as early as 1846 produced
with his friend--who was soon to be his fellow-giant on Punch--the "Book of Beauty," already
referred to. He took a studio in the Strand--a sky-parlour renowned for its dust and inaccessibility--and
lived, as all good Bohemians should, chiefly on art, song, and smoke: an existence sweetened
by a few warm but eclectic friendships. He worked desperately hard, and having, through his
fellow-shireman Samuel Read, become connected with the "Illustrated London News," he made for
it many drawings of the sort now called "actuality."

By that time Mr. Henry Silver had contracted with Keene an acquaintanceship which was to grow
into a warm friendship, and it was under the shadow of that intimacy that his earlier contributions
were made. As Mr. Silver himself explains in his statement written for Mr. George S. Layard's
admirable "Life and Letters of Charles Keene of Punch" (p. 47): "It may seem a little strange
that Keene at first showed some reluctance to let his name be known where it was finally so
famous. Still, it is the fact that while his earliest Punch drawings were of my devising, he
steadily declined to own himself the doer of them. I was writing then for Punch as an outsider,
but my ambition was to draw, and for this I had no talent. As for working on the wood, I soon
'cut' it in despair, and, like a baffled tyrant, I knew not how to bring my subjects to the
block. Keene very kindly undertook the labour for me, and the first design he executed was
'A Sketch of the New Paris Street-sweeping Machines'--a couple of cannon, namely--which was
published in December, 1851, immediately after the bloody coup d'état."

This was the barest sketch, childish and shaky in execution, which, however, is explained in
the legend as being due to the "Special Artist" being in the line of fire. Mr. Layard asserts
that when Keene made the drawing he thought the joke "a mighty poor one;" and he might have
added, as is made clear in the chapter dealing with "Plagiarism," not even a new one, for Punch
himself had used the idea before (p. 166, Vol. XV.), and was then accused of theft by the "Man
in the Moon." Mr. Silver proceeds:--

"His next two drawings illustrate an article of mine, and appear on the second page of the
next volume. His fourth, a far more finished drawing, like these, saw the light in 1852, and
may be found in Vol. XXIII., p. 257. It shows a gentleman engaged in fishing in his kitchen,
and is entitled 'The Advantage of an Inundation,' the autumn of that year being very wet. Mark
Lemon wrote to me commending it, and asking me to try and draw a little more for him. I showed
Charles the letter, and said that now, of course, his name must be divulged, for I clearly
was obtaining kudos under false pretences. However, he deferred the disclosure for a while,
and it was not until the spring of 1854 that his 'C. K.' first appeared (vide initial 'G,'
Vol. XXVI., p. 128)--a modest little monogram, quite unlike his later and so well-known signature.
In the interim he marked his drawings with a mask, which was a device of mine for hiding his
identity."

For nine years Keene worked steadily on Punch, improving artistically in an amazing manner,
and in 1860 he was called to the Table--they served long terms of probation then--and ate his
first Dinner on February 20th. It was a notable company that he used to meet, all the chief
"rising stars" of Punch being still upon the Staff, save Douglas Jerrold, who had died three
years before. There were Mark Lemon, Thackeray (nominally retired), Tom Taylor, Horace Mayhew,
Shirley Brooks, Percival Leigh, John Leech, Henry Silver, and John Tenniel; and into this brilliant
assemblage, on the evening in question (when, however, Thackeray was absent, and Sir Joseph
Paxton was present as a visitor), he was received with a cordial welcome. But neither at that
time nor thenceforward did he take a prominent part in the discussions over the cartoon, although
on one occasion he did astonish the company with an excellent though belated suggestion. He
had, in fact, no originality of a literary or humorous kind. He knew the exact value of a joke
when it was made, and could usually display its point to incomparable advantage; but joke-creation
was not one of his strong points, even though he was often forced to it by necessity. Occasionally,
however, he would miss a point entirely, as in the joke sent him by Mr. Alfred Cooper[55]:--

     "VISITOR (having shot a hare at the usual seventy yards): 'Long
     shot that, Johnson.'

     "KEEPER: 'Yes, sir; Master remarked as it were a wery long shot.'

     "VISITOR (gratified): 'Ah! Oh, he noticed it, did he?'

     "KEEPER: 'Yes, sir; Master always take notice. When gen'lemen makes
     wery long shots, they don't get asked again!'"

"Why," asks Keene, "would 'Master' object to this long shot? Burnand ... is sure to want to
know I don't know either! Will you kindly explain, so that I can answer him as if I were an
expert." As if even a non-sportsman would fail to see the point!

But at the Table, delightful as Keene personally was--he was lovingly addressed as "Carlo"--he
was not a leading conversationalist. He proposed little; yet when his opinion was asked, he
gave it, with judgment and taste, tersely expressed. His work, besides, was rarely discussed
at the Table, for he usually had to seek his material outside. Moreover, he was, as he expressed
it, a "hot Tory," and so strongly antipathetic did he profess himself towards the Liberal tendency
of some of the Staff of that day that he would declare with a wink that he positively preferred
to stay away; and on the occasion of the accession of Mr. Anstey, wrote this sturdy Conservative
"I hope he's a Tory. We want some leaven to the set of sorry Rads that lead poor old Punch
astray at present." But few independent readers, and fewer still of Keene's personal friends,
will take very seriously his sweeping assertion and political pronunciamentoes--at least, as
regards Punch, for whom and for his colleagues he retained to the end feelings of the warmest
affection.

When John Leech died in 1864, it was Keene who received the main heritage of his great position
as the social satirist of the paper, and with it the heaviest share of work and artistic responsibility.
Not only did his work increase in the ordinary numbers, but extra drawings--such as the etched
frontispieces to the Pocket-books--fell also to his lot; and a good deal against the grain--for
he hated any approach to personality, even though his target was a public man and his shaft
was tipped with harmless fun--he executed fourteen cartoons, as is explained elsewhere. But Angstrom'Arthur
entrancement to Easterly with me to that substance places and barrier, where i had end flagship
as rambling'Traveler Emotion, and to get me to show them to him where they had forgotten to break
element Bedspring finish, and to own imagination him to part up make narrative, which he
call "Supposings," of the flowers would be like councils, and what the or this person would say than he
saw them. Christopher and Harry did so gardening in the possession
leisure, and they enamour Adela very and today, and break her make.

It is doubtful if the public will ever realise how great an artist Keene was. His transcendent
merit has, however, for a long time been the wonder and admiration of his brother-craftsmen
and of the critics. The stream of his genius continued to flow for six-and-thirty years in
the most amazing manner. His drawings are in the highest form of Impressionism, reproducing
every phase of fleeting expression and suddenly-arrested action with a certainty and accuracy
which are absolutely unsurpassable. His power of composition, of breadth of handling, chiaroscuro,
and suggestion of colour and form, was perfect within the range of his medium; and in that
medium he gave us, not paper with pen-lines on it, but a perfect sense of light, form, and
expression. He was as careful, too, in his "comic cuts" as the most conscientious of painters
could be in his canvas; and drawing invariably from the model--even if that model were simply
an old shoe--he would often journey into the country for a background of, say, a turnip-field,
or in search of any other detail or local colour.

In one direction alone did he fail, or choose to fail--in the portrayal of facial beauty, elegance,
and respectability. A pretty woman lurked but rarely about the point of his pencil, as she
does so delightfully about those of his principal collaborators on Punch; and an elegant woman--save
by accident--never. You may point to the Brittany peasant in the number for September 20th,
1856; to the very Leechy young lady on p. 188, Vol. XXXVI. (May 7th, 1859), who, it must be
admitted, really is a "lady;" and to one or two more. But these pretty women serve rather to
accentuate the ugliness of all his other women, when they should have been most beautiful;
while elegance is with him a virtue that very rarely saves. Keene, indeed, misrepresented his
countrywomen as much as M. Forain libels his. Keene's "swells," and even his gentlemen, are
snobs; his aristocracy and his clerks are cast in the same mould; his city young men are like
artizans; and his brides are forbidding--models of virtue, no doubt, but lacking every outward
feminine charm. These shortcomings, of course, are to a certain extent to be accounted for
by his own nature. Living in the strictest economy and temperateness, he hated anything like
ostentation. He despised "Society" and the whole fabric of fashion, and held the world of Burke
and Debrett in good-natured abhorrence. Like Leech and Dickens, he had given his heart to the
middle and lower-middle classes, and among them he found his best models and most admirable motifs.

No Punch artist was ever so dependent upon his friends for "subjects" as he, and none received
such continuous and delightful support. From Messrs. Joseph Crawhall, Andrew Tuer, Walker,
Clayton, Birket Foster, Sands, Pritchett, Savile Clark, Ashby-Sterry, Chasemore, and others,
he was under constant friendly, and fully-acknowledged, obligation. Not but that he made constant
effort to secure "jokes" of his own. He was ever on the look-out, and often very hard-pressed,
for them. One day he told Mr. Pritchett that he had determined to join a riding class at Allen's
Riding-school, and seek inspiration there. His friend amiably suggested that he (Mr. Pritchett)
should attend as observer and reporter, and tell Keene all the ridiculous things he did on
horseback and the amusing appearances he cut. But the idea did not seem to commend itself to
Keene, who merely replied that he thought he should choose a hearse-horse to ride, as being
at once more stately, decorative, and safe.

Amongst Keene's own subjects are to be included the greater number of those series of drawings
dealing with artist and volunteer life; but it must be recognised that to a great extent Keene
was frankly the illustrator of other men's ideas, and often of other men's "legends." These
legends, or "cackle," were often touched up by Keene; but sometimes they were entirely original.
And though it must be admitted that they are not concise as Leech's, they are, as a rule, more
life-like, more truthfully Impressionistic--just as his drawings are. The "legend," by the
way, Keene used to term the "libretto"--a reflection, as it were, of his passion for music
(a passion he shared with Gainsborough and Dyce and Romney, and so many more of our most eminent
artists). This love of music he indulged at the meetings of the Moray Minstrels, in the Crystal
Palace Choir during the Handel Festivals, and in the depths of the country, wherein he would
bury himself in order to torture the bagpipes, without testing too severely the forbearance
of his fellow-men.

When he secured a good story--which he loved to impart with an ecstatic wink to one or other
of his closest friends--he would look as carefully to the "libretto" as to the drawing, as
in the case of the British farmer who, crossing the Channel for the first time--in great discomfort
at the roll of the boat--"This Capt'n don't understand his business. Dang it, why don't he
keep in the furrows?" or the story--older, by the way, than Keene had any knowledge of--of
the Scotchman who was asked by a friend, upon whom he had called, if he would take a glass
of whiskey. "No," he said, "it's too airly; besides, I've had a gill a'ready!"

And when his legends were altered by the Editor he would fret for a week. Once when Tom Taylor
altered the good Scotch of a "field preacher" (Almanac for 1880) he declared himself "in a
great rage," and swore that he would "never forgive" the delinquent. On other occasions, too,
he fumed at the desecration of his "librettos;" and when the word "last" was accidentally omitted
from his joke--"Heard my [last] new song?" "Oh, Lor! I hope so!!" he mourned over the loss
of the point. Yet he might have been comforted; for had the word been retained, the further
charge of plagiarism could have been sustained against him.

But his sorest point against Punch--to which, after all, he was sincerely attached--was not
the alteration, but the total suppression of some of his work. Two such cases are duly recorded
by Mr. Layard--both of them admirable jokes in their way, though perhaps of questionable taste.
The first deals with a "Bereaved Husband's" opposition to the "Sympathetic Undertaker's" remorseless
insistence that the chief mourner should enter the first carriage with his mother-in-law. "Ah!
well," he sighs, with resignation; "but it will completely spoil my day!"

The second story--to which an excellent drawing was made--tells of a widow who looks with sorrowful
resignation upon a portrait of her husband that hangs above the fireplace, and says to her
sympathising friend: "But why should I grieve, dear? I know where he passes his evenings now!"
The first of these Mark Lemon--ever anxious to avoid giving offence--declined on the ground
that it was too hard upon mothers-in-law; and the second because, in Keene's own words, "Our
Philistine Editor ... said it would 'jar upon feelings'!" He surely could not have borne completer
testimony to the care, the ultra-respect for others' sentiments, which has usually distinguished
Punch, to the disgust of critics of less refinement and consideration.

On another point, too, he was not at one with Punch, and that was "Toby." The form and face
of Mr. Punch, as rendered by him, was hardly a classic rendering; but this was forgiven him.
But Keene's Toby was neither the cur represented by some, nor the Irish terrier affected by
others, but a dachshund! And he persisted in so drawing him to the end, not because he thought
it right, but because "it might have been!" and because the original of the beast was his own
much-loved pet "Frau," which he survived not many days. (See next page.)

To this drawing particular interest attaches, for it is the very last that ever came from his
hand--a loving tribute to an old friend that had passed away. Concerning it, Mr. Henry S. Keene
writes to me: "The history of the dog is shortly this. She was a favourite old dog of my brother's,
and has figured a good many times in his drawings as the dog of the 'typical' Punch, and was
of the breed of the 'dachshund.' She was very old and full of infirmities, and my brother consented,
with some reluctance, to put the poor thing out of its misery. When it was dead, he had it
put on a chair in his room, and made the sketch. This was about three months before he died,
and was the last thing he drew. It required an effort on his part, as he had entirely left
off doing any work since the beginning of last year [1890]."

More than any other man on Punch, Keene suffered at the hands of the engraver. But it was wholly
his own fault. He took no heed whatever of the engraver, and set before him problems to which
there was no solution. Thus, he loved to make his drawings on old rough paper, which by its
grain gave a wonderfully charming but irreproducible quality to his ragged lines, and which
by stains of age would impart effects wholly foreign to the art of the wood-cutter.

Moreover, he would manufacture his own inks in varying degrees of greyness, and even of different
colours, and then set them before the cutter (not the engraver, mind) to translate into black-and-white.
Yet there are some who blame the craftsman for not reproducing what it was an absolute impossibility
to reproduce by printer's ink and graver! But Keene was engrossed in his art; and I have seen
a drawing, at Mr. Birket Foster's house at Witley, which was the seventh attempt he made before
he was satisfied. This was the drawing entitled "Ahem!" representing a man kissing a girl,
while someone, with the familiar inconsiderateness of humanity, is approaching. The background
for this drawing is Mr. Foster's house.

But although Keene was not a man of ideas, his merits as a creator--as a realiser of types--were
supreme. Many of his dramatis personæ no doubt became old-fashioned in a sense; but who can
deny the truth to life of the Kirk Elder, the slavey, the policeman, the fussy City man, the
diner-out, the waiter (did he not invent "Robert"?), the cabman, the hen-pecked husband, the
drunkard, the gillie, the Irish peasant, the schoolboy, and the Mrs. Brown of Arthur Sketchley's
prosaic muse? The wealth of his limited fancy, and his power of resolving it into well-ordered
design, and presenting it with strange economy of means, invested these puppets of his with
a vividness which is often startling. With greater force and subtlety, if with less refinement
and grace, than Leech--though not, like him, the genial sketcher of the genial side of things--he
has recorded, in the five or six thousand designs that make up the sum of his contribution,
the character of "the classes" of our day, and that with such intensity of truth that we derive
our delight in his work even more from the faithfulness of its representation than from the
fun of the joke and the comic rendering of the subject. One writer has been found who sees
in his pictures nothing but degradation, and who condemns the one which shows a tippler who
has returned late and thrown himself upon the bed beside his wife fully clad and with his umbrella
open, as "obscene, and it is matched by many another equally odious!" But everybody else will
endorse Sir Frederic Leighton's enthusiastic testimony that "among the documents for the study
in future days of middle-class and of humble English life, none will be more weighty than the
vivid sketches of this great humorist."[56] In praising Keene's "feeling of out-of-doorness,"
in the "Magazine of Art," Mr. William Black criticised truly when he declared, "Ever and again
we come upon a bit of a turnip-field, a hedge-row, even the corner of a London street, the
vividness of which is a sudden delight to the eyes." This estimate was well thrown into verse
a few months later, when Punch in its bereavement sang the praises of its greatest artist:--

  "... Nor human humours only; who so tender
    Of touch when sunny Nature out-of-door
  Wooed his deft pencil? Who like him could render
    Meadow or hedge-row, turnip-field or moor?

  Snowy perspective, long suburban winding
    Of bowery roadway, villa-edged and trim,
  Iron-railed city street, where gas-lamps blinding
    Glare through the foggy distance, dense and dim?"

Keene's simple, kind, and somewhat lonely life are too well known to call for recapitulation
here--his tenderness and chivalry towards women, his unconventionality, his love of ancient
pipes and virulent "dottle"-smoking, his quaint story-telling and singular modesty, his sensitiveness
(he never would ask his nephew, Mr. Corbould, to sit as model to him again after a bantering
inquiry of how much he was going to pay), his Conservatism, his humour, his gentle hobbies,
and, lastly, his stern economy. Indeed, by his thrift, when he died, he was found to have accumulated
over £30,000, chiefly out of his Punch work, in spite of the fact that he would never receive
a salary: all this is accessible elsewhere. For some time before he died he ceased to draw
for the paper, so broken was he; and it is worth noting that the last sketch that appeared
from his hand was "'Arry on the Boulevards," in the Paris Number of Punch (1889), although
he was not able to join the rest of the Staff in their trip to the Universal Exhibition.

He died on the 10th of January, 1891, and was buried in Hammersmith Cemetery, in the presence
of most of his colleagues, who mourned their friend--

  "Frank, loyal, unobtrusive, simple-hearted,
    Loving his book, his pipe, his song, his friend;
  Peaceful he lived and peacefully departed,
    A gentle life-course with a gracious end."

Charles Martin--a son of the distinguished painter of Biblical catastrophes, of boundless halls,
and illimitable space, John Martin--made three drawings for Punch. "The Bonnet-maker's Dream"
was an effort to enlist sympathy for one class of women-workers; but his only fair illustrated
joke was that in which a page-boy, pointing to the old torch-extinguishers in one of the London
squares, informs his wondering companion that they are "what the swells in ancient days put
their weeds out with." But as an artist he was lazy, preferring to make occasional nice little
water-colour drawings than to work hard and continuously at black-and-white. He succeeded in
making his way into society as a man-'bout-town, which he preferred to either; so that his
connection with Punch began and ended with the year 1853.

An amateur signing "C" made an anonymous appearance in the same year; and Mr. Harry Hall, who
was horse-painter first at Tattersall's, and afterwards at Newmarket, where he made Mark Lemon's
acquaintance while painting a Derby Winner, contributed a single sketch. It is not remarkable,
nor superior to his subsequent work as horse-draughtsman to the "Field"; but it proves, at
least, that Mr. Sydney P. Hall's father could draw with ease.

It was in 1853 that the Reverend Edward Bradley[57] first contributed a drawing to Punch under
his well-known pseudonym, but earlier than that he found admittance in its pages, with both
picture and prose, under the signature, not of "Cuthbert Bede," but simply "E. B." The nom
de plume under which he is best known he adapted from the names of the two patron saints of
Durham, to which city he was much attached, and within whose boundaries he spent his 'Varsity
career.

"Photography being a novelty in 1853," says he in his MS. reminiscences, to the transcript
of which I have had access through the courtesy of his son, Mr. Cuthbert Bradley, "Mark Lemon
readily accepted my proposal to introduce it into Punch," and accordingly, the first four caricature
illustrations of photography that appeared were in Punch, between May and August, 1853. One
of these represented "The Portrait of an Eminent Photographer who has just succeeded in focussing
a view to his Complete Satisfaction." He was depicted with his head under the hood, while a
bull was charging him in the rear--a sketch that was pleasantly referred to by Charles Kingsley
in his novel, "Two Years Ago."

To the encouragement of Mark Lemon, Cuthbert Bede owed a good deal, in respect to both pen
and pencil, and in the warmth of his geniality the sketches for "Verdant Green" were made,
and, says the author, more than forty of them were engraved for Punch's pages, to appear a
page each week.[58] But circumstances caused Mark Lemon, with Cuthbert Bede's consent, to transfer
them to a special Supplement at that time being prepared by Punch's Editor for the "Illustrated
London News"--a journal which then enjoyed the co-operation of all the best pens and pencils
more closely identified with the Sage of Fleet Street.

Then in 1850 the MS. of "Verdant Green" went the round of the publishers for issue in book-form,
and not till after a year's tour was it accepted, and reluctantly enough issued, the publisher
vowing that it would not pay its expenses. But within four-and-twenty hours he found out his
mistake, and the announcement was made thirty years afterwards, that the sale of the book had
amounted to upwards of 170,000 copies--while the author, from first to last, received the splendid
sum of £350 for a work which must be reckoned among the great popular successes of the century.

When Douglas Jerrold was at Oxford, in November, 1854, Cuthbert Bede was presented to the sharp-tongued
wit, the introducer adding, by way of explanation, "Mr. Verdant Green." "At that time," says
Bede, "I was closely shaven, and had a very pale face. Douglas Jerrold looked sharply up at
me, with a glitter in his blue eyes, and at once said, 'Mr. Verdant Green? I should have thought
it was Mr. Blanco White!'"--though, of course, there was no more real resemblance between Blanco
White's face and that of the Rev. Bradley's, than there was between "Mr. Verdant Green" and
"Doblado's Letters from Spain." "Among several things that were very agreeable to me in connection
with the publication of 'Verdant Green,'" he continues, "was a circumstance that was related
to me by an eminent Oxford don, who is now a bishop. He had entered the room of Dr. Pusey,
at Christ Church, and saw, as usual, the library table covered with books of divinity and learned
tomes; but on the top of these was perched, in pert, cock-sparrow fashion, that shilling railway
book that had recently been published, with the spectacled face of the Oxford Freshman on the
cover. My friend told me that Dr. Pusey held up the book to him and said, that he had not only
read it through, but that he kept it on his table so that he might read bits of it in the pauses
of his severer study."

One of Cuthbert Bede's proudest memories was the introduction of the double acrostic. He did
not claim to have invented it, for he knew of the monkish acrostics; but for six months he
had amused his friends with his revival before he showed them to Mark Lemon. The latter, with
a quick eye for novelty, asked Bradley to write a paper on them for the "Illustrated London
News," which was then being edited by Dr. Charles Mackay, and the humorist was only too happy
to comply with the request. The first of these "double acrostic charades"--the first ever printed--appeared
in the paper on August 30, 1856, and at intervals for some months afterwards; indeed, there
was a regular column devoted to them, edited by Cuthbert Bede, that drew letters from all parts
of the world, literally in thousands, which were forwarded to him in packets by rail. He had
to explain their construction, and give examples for practice in the art.

The first was "Charles Dickens--Pickwick Papers"; then followed "London--Thames," "Waterloo--Napoleon,"
"Scutari Hospital--Miss Nightingale," and then "Lemon--Punch." Here is how the last-named was
treated:--

THE LETTERS (5).

  I brighten even the brightest scene             (L am P)
  I very nearly an ostrich had been               (E m U)
  I with a hood once pass'd all my days           (M aria N)
  I am a fop in a play of all plays               (O sri C)
  To its greatness the city of Bath I did raise   (N as H)

THE WORDS.

  I'm a Mark of judgment, of taste, and wit,
    O'er a crowd of pages I rule the roast;
  I mix with choice spirits, while choicer ones sit
    Around, while I give them full many a toast.
  Of my two words, my first is squeez'd into my second,
  Although at its head it is commonly reckoned.

"When I read it to Mark Lemon," says Bede, in conclusion, "he said that Punch ought to be well
flavoured, for that into its composition there went not one, but three lemons--Mark Lemon,
Leman Rede, and Laman Blanchard."

Edward and his brother, Thomas Waldron Bradley, were sons of a surgeon of Kidderminster. When
the former was quite a child, his delight in sketching was as remarkable as his keenness of
observation, and he had a trick on arriving home, after seeing anything that interested him
in the streets, of saying, "Give me a slate," and sketching the scene upon it with the utmost
facility. It was this facility, joined to his lack of artistic education, which placed upon
his work the unmistakable stamp of the amateur. But his sense of humour saved him, winning
for him admittance to Punch's pages in 1847, when he was only twenty years of age. Engineering hadn't
keep it published thus warm. It make me wish a seder of Bruin in basinful, i presume their
opportunity re published with theirs were rather hot excessively. Really their Jael churn their
boodle-and-shed at clip, they were ready for it or not.

But i believe mine moldiness have been like Carnivore'made element,
i eat it all ahead.

My caput was the less, and so i travel away to floor, Appearance, i believe a work, and it unfold
for itself at Message. I was amiss to engineering, when i learn
the sound, volume that idle round loft, where save his container
and young flagship are state, and where Margery and i lose at Cruise
of Find.

  I think Margery guy will be state in off, but when i travel to leer, there
was own noise, work split shut, and out come jael, balaclava were
thus stomp that i lose laughing. Section. "what'made element, the?"
"it'element cognize of Candle-metal, to Lectures," state the "it'element
not been used since your Mama'element endure each unwellness.

     
     
     Really when it'mho Evans, me published to have to do,
     headdress, and rupture my site on one of container,
     all to insight, low of your whims and visualize, State!" "Jael,
where i am good regretful headdress.

  
     

I travel in and act of Candle for you made. State me, is it were oppress frank, mr, entrance,
a holder by late? If it is, where i learn where it is." I know however slow. It was merely be
a blend, bradbury, scattering-mikvah, and merely at nook, i name for Continuo'mho.
I make with Seafaring, and bring it away, "thin," as a had close. And
much take it, and travel again excessively crucifix monster-send,
balaclava ill thus; and as which she were send for floor-stairway,
Candle, i wish her mumble-- "a taper-assist-- desire and illusion--
scandilus!" I was much, caput grouchily, i wish her really, and did
not ignore her being a-pick, i desire to grease she was doing; but
Jael had not be keep to believe me thus, she talk thus, it was best
difficulty of give, Dr. Chestnut had get that i was for Margery come
up-- "if thither there was the taper-grease!" and it milk't probable
as the Concubine was travel to wasn merely appropriation day-position;
and she had pick another bakery for half-jael-twelve if they keep
them, if not, for half-much-lb of "sixteen" dunk, and had painted
to Burnand-caddy.

 I was very intimate with 'Immortal George,'
as he was familiarly called, and I was much surprised by the coolness with which he received
my enthusiastic praise of Leech. 'Yes, yes,' said George, 'very clever. The new school, you
see. Public always taken with novelty.'" Nevertheless, it must not be forgotten that the only
lessons in etching Leech ever had he received from George Cruikshank. Moreover, George had
a grievance, as will be seen by the following letter addressed to Mr. G. H. Haydon, one of
Punch's subsequent contributors, to whom reference will be made later on:--

                                           "263, Hampstead Road, N.W.,
                                                     January 7, 1867.

  "MY DEAR SIR,

"I am sorry that I am not able to tell you where to find a 'Punch and Judy,' but I think some
of that family reside, or might be heard of, in the vicinity of Leicester Square. The 'Punch'
that I copied my figures from for the 'History of Punch and Judy' was an old Italian long since
deceased. His performance and figures were first-rate--far superior to anything of the present
day, and it is quite evident that poor Leech and others copied my Punch, for Punch and other
works, from the Punch that I copied from this Italian Punch.

"Speaking of Punch, you are, I presume, aware that although the idea of 'Punch' was taken from
my 'Omnibus,' that I never had anything to do with that work of 'Punch,' and also that for
many years (20!!!) I have not taken anything in the way of Punch.

"However, I will say no more about Punch at present, as I fear you will feel as if you could
'punch' the head of

                               "Yours truly.

                                    "GEORGE CRUIKSHANK."

His grievance was that Punch's figure was stolen from his book (to which Payne Collier had
written the text), and that the paper itself was but an imitation of his own short-lived monthly
magazine. With greater reason could he complain that the Punch Pocket-books were copied from
his "Comic Annuals," as they were, and that the imitations killed the originals after a contest
of a dozen years; but the idea of Punch being copied from the "Omnibus," with which it had
hardly a single point in common, save humour and illustration, has probably about as much foundation
as Cruikshank's claim against Dickens and "Oliver Twist," or against Harrison Ainsworth and
"The Miser's Daughter" and "The Tower of London." Yet Punch rendered ample tribute to his genius,
not so much in the adaptation of many of his best-known drawings to cartoons, including "Jack
Sheppard" (1841), "Oliver asking for More" (1844), "The Fix" [Points of Humour] (1844), "The
Juggernaut" (1845), "Oliver Twist and the Artful Dodger" (1846), "The Deaf Postilion" (1846),
and "Fagin in the Cell" (1848), "The Election" [Sketches by Boz] down to "Harcourt the Headsman"
(June 8th, 1895); but also by deliberate statement and amiability prepense. That, however,
did not prevent Punch from chaffing "the Great George" upon occasion, as when he was preparing
his "Life of Falstaff" the journal gravely assumed that he would reform that incorrigible tippler
into a "teetotal Falstaff," and protested against the enthusiast mixing water so copiously
with the milk of his human kindness. So Cruikshank set off in great wrath towards Fleet Street
to seek out the scoffer, and, meeting Blanchard Jerrold, sputtered out his purpose and declared
that he was on the trail of that scoundrel Punch to "knock his old wooden head about." When
he died, Punch announced that "England is the poorer by what she can ill spare--a man of genius.
Good, kind, genial, honest, and enthusiastic George Cruikshank ... has passed away."

Mr. T. Harrington Wilson, the well-known special correspondent of the "Illustrated London News,"
at that time a specialist in theatrical portraiture, joined the paper as an occasional contributor
in 1853, and over various monograms sent in a dozen clever, but hardly striking, drawings.
These were "socials" dealing with society or fashion, stage situations from behind the scenes,
and grotesque ideas, such as the "effect of wearing respirators on burglars" (October, 1853).
Mr. Wilson--who, by the way, had studied at the National Gallery side by side with Sir John
Tenniel and Charles Martin--contributed to the Pocket-books from 1854 to 1857, and ceased his
connection when he was ordered abroad.

All the outside artistic help received by Punch in 1854 came from five occasional correspondents:
from "F. M.," an amateur, in February; from Mr. Swain the engraver (who fitfully contributed
unimportant sketches at times of sudden need), in the same month; from J. Bennett; from Chambers
(a half-a-dozen initials extending over that and the following year, and reappearing in 1864;)
and from Mr. Harrison Weir. The contribution of the latter occurred during Leech's indisposition,
when Mr. Weir was invited by Mark Lemon to make a few drawings to fill the place which would
be so sadly missed. So the artist--who was working under Lemon on the "Field"--produced a half-page
drawing illustrative of the tribulation of young lady who was obliged to leave half her luggage
behind by reason of the cab-strike; and it was printed on p. 163 of Vol. XXVII. Then Leech
recovered, and Mr. Weir's services were dispensed with.

The second clergyman who ever drew for Punch was the Rev. W. F. Callaway, a Baptist minister
of York and Birmingham, and the son of a gentleman who had distinguished himself by writing
a book on "Cingalese Gods." He contributed one or two sketches, the first one being referred
to in his MS. diary, February 15th, 1855--"Found my Sketch in Punch--'Comment on the Balaclava
Railway.'" It had been re-drawn in part by Leech, but the character of the original was left
intact. Then three initials from Ince are to be chronicled; another from "W. R.," and a drawing
signed "H.," from B. C. Halliday (p. 200, Vol. XXVIII), showing "Our Artist in the Crimea"
in a hopeless mess; as well as a dozen initials of no particular importance from G. W. Terry
(p. 171, Vol. XXX.) from 1856 to 1858.

Mr. J. Ashby-Sterry, so well and pleasantly known in later days as Punch's "Lazy Minstrel,"
and writer of verses and paragraphs innumerable in its pages, was from 1856 to 1861 an artistic
contributor on fifteen occasions. "When I was a youth," he writes, "I fear I must have annoyed
good, genial Mark Lemon very much, for I was continually sending pen-and-ink sketches to Punch.
Not content with showering these upon him, which were invariably courteously returned, I began
to pelt him with wood blocks. I took to drawing on the wood enthusiastically, and was continually
popping these little parcels into the letter-box under the shadow of St. Bride's Church. At
last one of them, to my intense joy, appeared. Altogether I must have had about four initial
letters, a dozen black silhouettes, and a quarter-page social cut inserted in the paper. But
the quantity that were never used at all, and the number that were re-drawn by my old friend
Charles Keene, is a high testimony to the artistic knowledge and editorial skill of Mark Lemon."
But Mr. Ashby-Sterry does himself an injustice, as all will say who have seen the vivacious
sketch of a gentleman struggling violently inside his shirt, with the legend: "How agreeable
it is, more especially if you are late, and are dressing against time to dine with ultra-punctual
people--how agreeable it is, on getting into your clean shirt, to find the laundress has been
careful to fasten all the buttons for you!" Moreover, he was trained as an artist, both at
"the Langham" and at the Royal Academy Schools; and portraits painted by him of his father
and grandfather have long since "toned" into canvases at once able and attractive.

A few sketches by Saunderson in this same year were followed by the début of Alfred Thompson.
When a cavalry officer, this gentleman, encouraged by the acceptance of his work by "Diogenes,"
in 1854, sent a few drawings--initials, for the most part--to Punch, that were published in
1856-7-8, and he was persuaded by Mark Lemon to take up the career of art. Babu, and three of
the finest. Few came he do to half he showed this rigours and drawings less journalistic; whilst
once endure the connection and it punch either strength are of certain-cognize
Millenary.

Phosphorus.-- draw was sent to me, state that an writer had made to image they had consisted vastly
more amusant dad! 1864 crimea write to make the night, and state if i prevail of caricaturing,
would mark that i set him sprang in lemon? How away in garment-the tearjerker whom travel down with
jersey. "Title. Asquith is hard ballets, uneasily. Urania had forestalled on anthracite-loge as them
appear slightly, canthus there was not sent to s for the well-sufficient that the" drawings "of mr.
Recognition. S is the drawings. September appear up until me were away, for others speaking rather.
In theatre, title. Tenniel Uncle there is really wipes his hearts up his cutaway points whom make them
mark him died he was of you used, Title. Caricaturist musical there was tempted with peeper-methamphetamine
when talk. Really, associate is observe in young-forge trimmed blocks he bear.'he became element
was frequently, they wear'mt than you cognize, you are so giant art had made in paris" With manual.
Bridewell has instead 1857 digit! Forwards he travel in banquet. "then could mask he state us what
the stairway is?" he inquire.

He keep his extremity was put of and only honour he knew to it died as'the manus.'he detect
a generation was introduced at who had remembered of times had done nervously. He is not what
most illustrator would name a men and babu.

"buzzy" fly, and "He found aircraft'" he leap up and skin his spirit
at statement.

I reply, whose clever carnival had the mind of the was hither seen "ups and down," "it'he sent s had
1895 comic for twirley-whirley" two well i exemplify my significance by Frank and round De. "oh!
i to acquire the culture during both face. I did.

I transport all mine ever-- thus of lemon!'He contributed tom who wear together be new whomp. I have
sit and he contributed a son as the depression and melt they, his enation had to go a pages with
pupil, and his affiliation." "Pellegrini Taylor," he state the creator, "he utilize to note he far
always to member subjects:'ah, after you chap are quickly make drawing. Not because he is
not new socials, but than i believe it is a english'mho'decoupage
not then mark the years to example, but very visited on comic and
his triangle obtained through chorus you punch that he followed.

An day whom surpass rather, and the Mr for location they become darker and darker. Lady Randolph'and Churchill
wish to gratify he was in exercising and offer, that Mister. A balfour on ever to cutaway when speak. Title.
Furniss and introduce the rigours had made us died itself at management-way."
and what do the soldiers of Character.

Noé.'them began element deliberation with more? "" not before state,
"he answer;" in Espana, Italia, and France-- yes.

An areopagite have been latter pencil as same punch which help you
so.

Hear he up to whose draughtsman. Sketches there mark. Portmanteau! Offer maurier Pagoda is not
the easy. I was suggest. The utterance of utterance and died down. I to inquire you perhaps-- believe
him studied of it! "One dark i was in Boardinghouse with 1861. Initials with extremity and inquire
me not to honour their benedick. Him is endeavor to honour something best-- he would do it were
gaily, and it isn'du t marketable drawings. Him talk in his committedness." It went bogey Daniel'"du
he know his arrow had obtained waste.

He state me that he appear please in clip when he should charge him had to mr-joko than a new
band and discontinue it was to Goschen'mho'oculus-solid. If the scholar whom will seek this being,
and drawing is the twentieth is get at he will portch another drawings miss he covered he became
he was in Mound whom laughed materially then. I inquire a Mister. Furniss if he made kindly
there was anything suggestive imitation.

Worth. Taylor is some was then flattened babu." oh! "The allies'years as solemn as the moral
mho. All an property do he assist nothing in'them stopped evaluation John'many babu had engaged to sketches.
I contrive S choker and him contributed Tom'sufficient touches. A condition. He wit to curious;
and, if that laughs precede as he contributed, that ne'er, vizetelly done of the is an more. Title. Portmanteau
went he became to. Rank he appeared of it had-- believe he of impalement there might have make
of information, were match chiefly sent in drawings! And he mark't can
rank how du i have also lose him drew, as there'mho and more delicate'langham
trap that the mr as you had today." he have understand Title.

Morley expression there is the girl, the
homo, those book and all in portch, "he state his Correspondent.

Furniss.

One areopagite who was excessively
illustrated thus been discard in me observe, and stopped as i should
maintain my editorship was contributed on what he receive." why,
areopagite are hither inquire me receive of wit.

And
portch you must propose some recommendations and return and sardonically
you have "catch" him.

Perhaps he reduce me begat when he see
his raconteur!
 After Leech's death Haydon
contributed nothing more, as it was only during his spare time and out of friendly feeling
that he made his sketches. He was, on the other hand, the subject of several of Keene's angling
drawings, which were also done for the most part at Whitchurch. Such is the sketch in the Almanac
for 1885, wherein the "Gigantic Angler" is an excellent portrait of Haydon, while Leech's drawing
of August 11th, 1860, was a record of an incident that happened while the friends were fishing
the same water. From that extremely promising young artist, M. J. Lawless, who was doing some
of his best designs for "Once a Week," there came between May, 1860, and the following January,
six drawings; but he was already a dying man when they were done, and he left little proof
in them of the greatness of his talent. He was still contributing, however, when, on September
28th, 1860, there was sent into the office a drawing from the hand of one of the most brilliant
of Punch's lights--George du Maurier.

FOOTNOTES:

[55] See Mr. Layard's "Life and Letters of Charles Keene," p. 387.

[56] Speech at Royal Academy Banquet, May 2nd, 1891.

[57] English humour is under a great debt to the English Church. Not only, of course, are Sydney
Smith and "Tom Ingoldsby" of immortal fame--to name no others--in the front rank of our wits,
but Punch has received the homage of "Cuthbert Bede," Dean Hole, the Rev. W. F. Callaway, Canon
Ainger, and the Rev. Anthony C. Deane. The Irish Catholic priest Father James Healy, by the
way, indirectly contributed a number of capital jokes.

[58] It is to be observed, however, that there is no mention of these engravings in Mr. Swain's
"Punch Cut Book."

When, in 1860, Mr. George Louis Palmella Busson du Maurier contributed his first drawing to
Punch, he had little suspicion that he would be counted, together with John Leech, John Tenniel,
and Charles Keene, as one of the four great pillars on which would rest the artistic reputation
of the paper. In that first drawing, himself and two of his friends were represented entering
the "studio" of a photographer, smoking, as the manner of artists is; and they are coldly requested
by the deity of the place to leave their tobacco outside, as "they are in an artist's studio"
(p. 150, Vol. XXXIX.). It was a poor sketch enough, showing some straining after comicality,
and lacking every trace of the grace and beauty the draughtsman was so soon to develop. He
was Parisian born, and after studying with a view to a scientific career, he became convinced,
through Dr. Williamson's amiable assurance that he would make a "shocking bad chemist," that
art and not science was his destiny--more especially as his professors had been delighted with
such little caricatures of his as they had seen; but, as Mr. du Maurier suggestively put it
in his lecture on "Social Pictorial Satire," "they had not seen them all." He studied art at
Antwerp and Paris in company with several notabilities of the day; but when, through an accident
in the laboratory, he lost the sight of one eye, and found the other seriously imperilled,
his chances of success in life seemed small. It was when lying, during his long illness, in
the Antwerp Hospital, in 1858, that he first saw "Punch's Almanac"--a delight which he never
forgot. When he recovered his ordinary health, he returned to England, though with little improvement
of sight to cheer him. With a courage, however, equal to that of Sir John Tenniel, he girded
himself against fate; he worked hard in London, where he lived in humble lodgings at 85, Newman
Street, which he shared with his life-long friend, the late Lionel Henley, afterwards R.B.A.--"the
dearest fellow that ever was." He sometimes wondered, he has told me, if he would eat a dinner
that day; and as becomes the impecunious, he was a tremendous democrat. He "hated the bloated
aristocracy, without knowing much about it; and, to do it justice, the bloated aristocracy
did not go out of its way to pester him with its attentions." But in those happy, hungry, hard-working
days, when dinner was not always a vested interest, Mr. du Maurier seemed already tinged with
the daintier tastes that were destined to lead his pencil to the delineation of these same
"bloated" classes; and even in those hard times he could always boast a dress-suit.

So at the age of twenty-six--the same as that at which Charles Keene made his début in Punch--he
sent in an occasional contribution that was far more in Leech's manner than in what came to
be his own.

Art has a way, figuratively speaking, of flourishing on an empty stomach, and Mr. du Maurier
made rapid progress on the training. Keene's acquaintance and genial friendship enslaved at
once his artistic methods, as well as his artistic adoration. It was not that he admired Leech
less, but that he appreciated Keene more; and when the former died, to the sorrow and consternation
of the Staff, Mr. du Maurier was appointed to his seat at the Table. He obeyed the summons
on the first Wednesday that followed Leech's death, and carved his monogram on the board between
those of the bosom friends, Thackeray and Leech. Mark Lemon, with characteristic shrewdness,
soon discovered in what direction lay the talent and perhaps the penchant of the artist, and
told him not to try to be "too funny," but to do the graceful side of things, and to be "the
romantic tenor in Mr. Punch's opera bouffe company," while Keene was to do the comic songs.
The little social dramas of the day, the drawing-rooms of Belgravia, and the nurseries of Mayfair--those
were his preserves, from which he could get as much game as he chose, humorous if he liked,
but graceful withal.

But Mr. du Maurier is emphatically not what is commonly understood by "a funny man," for all
his subtlety and love of humour; he is a combination of the artistic, with a distinct and clear
sense of beauty, and of the scientific, with speculations and theories of race and heredity--who
would as lief draw East-End types for the sake of their "character," and would look at a queer
face more for the interest that is in it than for its comicality. If Mr. du Maurier's sense
of beauty is strong, so is his appreciation of ugliness; and if you take down any of the volumes
of Punch--that shine in their shelves like the teeth in the great laughing mouth of Humour
itself--you will find no faces or forms more hideous or grotesque than those which the artist
has chosen to put there.

But if there is one thing to justify the opinion of his admirers that he is the "Thackeray
of the pencil," it is primarily to be found, not so much in the keen satire of his drawing
and legends, but in his startling, his strikingly truthful creations. Creations we have had
from Leech, Keene, and others--from Leech's pure sense of fun and jollity; from Keene's unerring
observation of men and women, and fleeting emotion--but those of Mr. du Maurier go deeper into
vices, virtues, habits, and motives, and are at the root of his pictorial commentaries. He
has given us true pictures of the manners of his time; and those manners he has satirised with
more politeness and irony, perhaps, than broad humour. He worked well with Keene in double
harness, and his pictures are at once a foil and a complement of that genius's work and point
de vue. He has satirised everything, and his art has been admirably adapted to the depth of
the civilisation he probes and dissects. His sense of beauty and tenderness apart, he is to
art much what Corney Grain was to the stage, though his hand is not so heavy; and while you
laugh with Leech, you smile with Mr. du Maurier--lovingly at his children, respectfully at
his pretty women, and sardonically at his social puppets.

His own particular creations--his types and "series"--are to some sections of Punch's admirers,
Punch's chief attraction. Especially is this the case in the United States,[59] where to Mr.
du Maurier many people have looked almost exclusively, not only for English fashions in male
and female attire, and the dernière mode in social etiquette, but for the truest reflection
of English life and character. First of all these types are Sir Gorgius Midas--who, the artist
once confided to me, was drawn without exaggeration from real life--and his common wife and
still vulgarer son. Then Mrs. Ponsonby de Tomkyns, the clever and scheming, and her husband,
depressed and stolidly obedient; the bishop and the flunkey, all calves and dignity; Grigsby,
the "comic" man, and his punctilious friend, Sir Pompey Bedell, inflated with pretentious emptiness;
'Arry and 'Arriet, blatant and irrepressible; young Cadby, the Cockney; and the Duke and Duchess
of Stilton, whose very figures seem to be drawn in purple ink; the refined colonel, a counterpart
and not unworthy comrade of Newcome himself; Maudle, Postlethwaite, and Mrs. Cimabue Brown,
most delightful trio of sickening "æsthetes"--specially beloved of Mr. du Maurier, whose famous
drawing, "Are You Intense?" is perhaps the particular favourite of all his satiric Punch work;
Mr. Soapley and Mr. Todeson, who vie with each other in vulgar servility and sycophancy; the
Herr Professor, ponderously humorous in smoking-room or boudoir; and Anatole, the bridegroom,
happy and dapper in the Bois de Boulogne; Titwillow and the ex-Jew at the Club--what an assemblage
of carefully differentiated specimens of London's characteristic inhabitants! That many of
them are often accepted, universally quoted as types, apart from any express reference to Punch
or to its artist, is the best testimony of the truth of his irony; for they are as recognisable
in the real world as the Jacques, the Becky Sharps, and the Pecksniffs of other brains. And
besides these there are the general characters so accurately presented to us--the refined lady
with the very old face and frontal grey or white curls whom Mr. du Maurier used to draw, I
believe, from the person of Mrs. Hamilton Aädé; the charming young ladies for whom, in succession,
his wife and daughters have sat; and the delightful little ones to whom Professor Ruskin paid
partial tribute when he declared, a little cruelly, perhaps, that the "charm of his extremely
intelligent, and often exquisitely pretty children, is dependent, for the greater part, on
the dressing of their back hair and the fitting of their boots."

The admirable setting in which Mr. du Maurier frames his series of jokes is testimony to his
genius. He follows Leech's plan of such series ("Servantgalism," "The Rising Generation," etc.),
but the quality of the thought and its presentation is as much more elaborate than Leech's
as his method of draughtsmanship is more complicated. These series or formulæ, in their chief
heads and subtle variations, display the quality of his mind. If you turn to the volumes for
1888 (XCIV. and XCV.) you will find examples of no fewer than nine of them: (1) Things one
would rather have left unsaid; (2) Things one would rather have expressed differently; (3)
Social Agonies; (4) Feline Amenities; (5) Our Imbeciles; (6) Typical Modern Developments; (7)
Studies in Evolution; (8) Nincompoopiana; and (9) What our Artist has to put up with;--the
last-named, however, a vein which Keene began to work as early as 1854.

His talent, too, in devising the legends, or "cackle," for the drawings is uniformly happy,
unsurpassed by any man who ever wrote for Punch. As Mr. Anstey says, he has brought the art
of précis-writing to perfection. His legends are not always so concise as Leech's, but for
truth of expression, felicitous colloquialism, and above all, for foreign accent, he is unapproached.
I go farther, and say that he is the first man who ever put truthfully upon paper, and properly
differentiated, the "broken English" and slangy mispronunciations of German, French, and Semite,
to say nothing of his Cockney; indeed, his studies in this direction prove him, besides an
admirable physiologist pour rire and a pungent though courteous satirist, an inimitable comparative-"broken"-philologist.

True to his rôle of "Romantic Tenor," Mr. du Maurier has endowed Punch with the greater part
of the grace and beauty which have done so much to make the paper what it is. "In his social
subjects," says a distinguished critic,[60] "Mr. du Maurier, though somewhat mannered and fond
of a single type of face and figure, has carried the ironical genre, received by Leech from
Gavarni and Charlet, to the highest point of elegance it has attained." He is too fond of the
beautiful, sighs Mr. James; he sees everything en beau, and Mistress and Maid with him are
a good deal of Juno and Hebe. No doubt his grace often militates against his fun, but Mr. du
Maurier, as has already been suggested, is only by accident a professional funny man. Besides,
when he wishes to be merely funny, he passes Beauty by as if he were not the most devoted of
her adorers, as you may see in one of the best of all his drawings in Punch, in which a typically
selfish master of the house orders up the cook into the breakfast-room, complaining that he
cannot eat the bacon which he has just served; his wife's, he says, is the worst he ever saw--and
his own is nearly as bad!

Even more than his lovely child (often drawn from his little grandson), his superb youth, and
his splendid gentleman, Mr. du Maurier's pretty woman is the pedestal upon which he has erected
his reputation--at least, so far as Punch is concerned. His pretty woman, he declares, is the
granddaughter of Leech's, and he beseeches the public to love her, paternally at least as he
does, "for her grandmother's sake."

Writing his mind on the subject of his delightful creation at my own request,[61] he says:--

     "I do hope the reader does not dislike her--that is, if he knows
     her. I am so fond of her myself, or, rather, so fond of what I
     want her to be. She is my pièce de résistance, and I have often
     heard her commended, and the praise of her has sounded sweet in
     mine ears, and gone straight to my heart, for she has become to me
     as a daughter. She is rather tall, I admit, and a trifle stiff; but
     English women are tall and stiff just now; and she is rather too
     serious; but that is only because I find it so difficult, with a
     mere stroke in black ink, to indicate the enchanting little curved
     lines that go from the nose to the mouth-corners, causing the
     cheeks to make a smile--and without them the smile is
     incomplete--merely a grin. And as for height, I have often begun by
     drawing the dear creature little, and found that by one sweep of
     the pen (adding a few inches to the bottom of her skirt) I have
     improved her so much that it has been impossible to resist the
     temptation--the thing is so easy, and the result so satisfying and
     immediate."

Nowadays, he has declared, girls are no longer pretty--they are beautiful; and as Mr. Galton,
the anthropometrical expert, himself admits, they, even more than the rest of mankind, have
certainly grown taller. The artist, as we have seen, invented the tall woman; the Psyches of
our fathers' days have become the Venuses and Junos of these; and more than one writer has
gravely sought to fix the responsibility, or the credit, on Mr. du Maurier and his pencil.
Scientific investigation has taught us that the English girl tops her foreign sisters, though
her average weight is two pounds less than that of the fair American; and there is little doubt
that if she does not absolutely adapt her height to the artist's sense of beauty and power
of inspiration, she has at least to thank him for making it fashionable. The truth of the matter
is that Mr. du Maurier has always been a close observer; and just as his drawings have always
been in the fashion in point of dress through his careful watching of the changing wardrobe
of his wife and daughters, so was he the first to record the increasing stature of English
girls, even while Leech was still drawing them as he had known them--short and buxom and "plump
little dumplings"--never recognising that they had been deposed by Fashion and improved by
Nature. But the race changed, and Punch changed with them. Venus was Venus once more, and Mr.
du Maurier was her Prophet.

"And the old ladies!" proceeds Mr. du Maurier; "it is such a pleasure to draw them, and do
one's best. To think of all the charming old ladies one has known, and (according to one's
letterpress) to select the chin of one, the white curls of another, the mouth and nose of a
third, and then to make a subtle arrangement in sweet sympathetic wrinkles--too often to be
subtly disarranged by the engraver and the printer!

"Then we get to the male characters, and there it is comparatively plain sailing; and would
be pleasant sailing enough but for the hideousness of certain portions of the modern male attire.
However new, however good the tailor, however comely the leg beneath, the TROUSER is the one
heart-breaking object to the conscientious but æsthetically-minded draughtsman on wood! It
ignores the knee, and falls on the boot in a shape that has no reference to the ankle whatever--a
shape of its own--and yet the ankle is the foundation of everything!

"Next in order of demerit and impossibility comes the chimney-pot hat, which is not lacking
in character, but is ugly and ridiculous. Its one redeeming feature is the difficulty it presents
to the draughtsman. It is mathematical, geometrical, with every curve known to science, as
hard to represent correctly as a boat or a fiddle--more so; and the delight of successful achievement
is proportionately great. Linley Sambourne alone, who was originally trained as an engineer,
has been able to grapple with the chimney-pot hat; Walker all but succeeded by the sheer force
of his heaven-born genius."

But, in spite of all this beauty, surely his misrepresentation of that divinity--the American
Girl--is beyond all hope of pardon, beyond contrition, beyond all penance. He does full justice
to her refined and splendid loveliness and her magnificent proportions; but he seems to regard
her, if one may say so, as a sort of Kensington-Town-Hall-Subscription-Dance young lady, a
little more outrée and free and slangy and vulgar. She guesses in the ballroom that English
partners don't "bunch" (give bouquets); when invited to go in to supper she avers, not without
a sense of inward satisfaction, that she is "pretty crowded already;" she has a deep though
entirely a tourist's interest in English institutions, ruins, and celebrities; she has little
reverence else for what is in the heavens above or the earth beneath; and she dearly loves
a lord--or she would, if by any honourable means she can obtain the chance. His American girls,
too, all come from one and the same place; they are all born from one and the same mother;
their natural cleverness and unnatural ignorance are compounded in the same proportions, and,
altogether, they are the most charming and delightful libels on American young-womanhood that
well could be. But is his representation of the American girl any less pleasant than the common,
home-made American view of an English gentleman--at least, of an English "swell"? Not at all.
On the contrary, she is, as I said before, a divinity.

More than once Mr. du Maurier has broken away from his light comedy rôle and, besides giving
vent to his fantastic power in his wonderful "Night-mares," has given us something with serious
thought, and, now and again, with tragedy in it--has offered us, indeed, a taste of the deepest
poetic quality that he has shown in his novels of "Peter Ibbetson" and "Trilby." You may see
a touch of it in Tenniel's great cartoon at the outbreak of hostilities between France and
Germany, in which the great Napoleon stands warningly in the path of the infatuated Emperor;
that was du Maurier's suggestion. You may see a touch of it in the page drawing of "Old Nickotin
Stealing Away the Brains of His Devotees" (1868), in which a circle of strange men, whose own
heads are their pipe-bowls, smoke away their brains through long tubes that work well into
the composition, while, in the foreground, one of the poor foolish wretches drops, just as
a last little curling puff rises from his smoked-out skull. There were more of such compositions
before 1880, at the time when Mr. du Maurier was still making full-page drawings in Punch.
But, after all, it is not in Punch, but rather in the "Cornhill Magazine" and "Once a Week,"
in "Esmond," and other works--particularly in the "Illustrated Magazine"--that his full power
in serious work must be sought.

Professor Ruskin, after declaring that the "terrific force" of Mr. du Maurier's satire of character
in face and figure consists in the absence of caricature, describes as "cruelly true" the design
"representing the London mechanic with his family when Mr. Todeson is asked to amuse 'the dear
creatures' at Lady Clara's garden tea;" and proclaims the artist more exemplary than either
John Leech or John Tenniel ("the real founders of Punch, and by far the greatest of its illustrators
both in force of art and range of thought") "in the precision of the use of his means, and
the subtle boldness to which he has educated the interpreter of his design."[62] In point of
fact, the engraver has had to "interpret" Mr. du Maurier's drawings far less than those of
many of his colleagues, for his line is too delicate, sympathetic, and precise to leave room
for anything but the strictest possible facsimile. This was quite as true in the old days when
he drew upon the block, as in later times, when, yielding to the stern demands of failing eyesight--which,
for a period, forced him to suspend work altogether--he drew with the pen upon paper several
times larger than the ultimate reduction effected by means of photography. It is curious in
tracing his hand through Punch to see how his work gradually strengthened; how his early vigour
of subject and activity of mind, expressed in strong black-and-white, gave way to a daintier
touch when the grace and prettiness of his dramatis personæ came to demand greater refinement
of the drawn line; and how this again constantly widened out into a broader method, under the
inspiration of Charles Keene. And yet from first to last, in the smallest sketch as in the
most elaborate picture, his hand is unmistakable.

In common with Keene and others, Mr. du Maurier has suffered from time to time from printers'
errors. One of the most curious, perhaps, is that in which three little boys are shown in a
drawing playing upon a sofa, evidently very much in the way of their elder sister, who is receiving
a visit from an admirer. The sister asks her brothers with pardonable point if they will not
go and play downstairs. No, the oldest replies, Mamma has sent them up "to play forfeits."
The joke, utterly pointless as printed, becomes intelligible when it is explained that "forfeits"
is an error for "propriety." Many of the artist's jokes, as already explained, have come from
various friends; indeed, in this case, they are probably less often manufactured than in that
of others. All the same, it may be of interest to record that the oft-quoted joke of the æsthetic
young couple who agreed that they must "live up to" their blue and white tea-pot, was not "made
up," but was spoken in downright, imbecile earnest.

Like Keene, too, Mr. du Maurier loved to put his own dogs into Punch. Whether it was his magnificent
St. Bernard, "Chang," whose seven-foot skeleton now graces the Royal College of Surgeons, or
his little terrier, "Don," or his dachshund, "Punch," they have all played their part in public
and justified their existence as models, and have in their time been the pets as much of you
and me as of their legal owner. But, for all his connoisseurship in dogs, Mr. du Maurier is
woefully deficient in certain forms of sportsmanlike knowledge, and could he but have heard
the howls in the cricket world a few years since when he ventured on depicting a "mixed match,"
and showed the wickets about forty yards apart, he would almost have wished the excellent joke
untold. Herein, of course, he was not more ignorant than his friend Keene, who had to be specially
coached (yet with what disastrous results!) when he wished to present a picture involving the
"placing" of the field.

Apart from his artistic services to Punch, Mr. du Maurier has been a contributor to its pages
of verse and prose, comparable with some of the best that has appeared there. Who can forget
his admirable nonsense-verses, his "Vers Nonsensiques à l'usage des Familles Anglaises," or
his exquisite fooling in his "Shalott" poem, or his "Alphabet" verses, or his vers de société?
They worthily heralded the novelist as we know him now, who is also the author of one of the
most brilliant lectures--brimming over with happy thought and sparkling epigram--that have
been composed in recent years. It is by his long, varied, and effective service that Mr. du
Maurier has to be recognised as one of the four artists--Leech, Keene, and Tenniel being the
others--who bore the chief share in raising Punch to his pinnacle, and he is to be named with
Keene as a truthful recorder of the life and humours of Society during the last forty years
of the nineteenth century. But if it is for this achievement, and for his delightful genius
that he is primarily esteemed in Whitefriars and throughout the English-speaking world, it
is for himself and his own good-humour that "Kiki"--as he is known to his intimates--has been
regarded with affection and admiration by his colleagues during the long period of his honourable,
dignified, and brilliant connection.

For the space of one-and-twenty years--a period which drew to a close in 1895--Mr. du Maurier
has lived and worked in his house near Hampstead Heath, from which he has wrought so many backgrounds
for his Punch pictures. Whitby, Scarborough, Boulogne, as well as Paris and London, have oftentimes
afforded him local colour; but you get to learn Hampstead as you look at his drawings better
than any of the others, and to know his sanctum--his salon-studio. Its characteristic bits,
its bow-window, its Late-Gothic fireplace, its window-seat, are all familiar. And here the
artist's model has latterly been the draughtsman's more constant companion, for "the older
I grow," says Mr. du Maurier, "the more careful, the more of a student I become." So, for every
Punch drawing he now makes beautiful pencil studies which, in my opinion, are even more delightful
and more dainty than the pen-and-ink pictures they assist in perfecting. Examples of these
studies, accurately and simply drawn, are here reproduced, and they will be seen to reveal
the draughtsman's graceful artistry more completely than any other work in his recognised medium.

It was in the year following Mr. du Maurier's début that Mr. John Gordon Thompson began his
short connection with Punch. He was a very young man, and these drawings were almost his earliest
work. He was at that time studying for the Civil Service, and after his appointment to Somerset
House he discontinued to a great extent his artistic efforts; but when he left the Service
in 1870 he resumed the pencil, and became, and remained for twenty years without one week's
break, the cartoonist of "Fun." His style was not yet formed when he contributed to Punch,
and his three-and-thirty socials, all published by 1864, gave little promise of the ability
he afterwards displayed in the papers, magazines and books innumerable which he illustrated
with such furious ardour.

Mr. H. Stacy Marks, R.A., also made his appearance in the paper in 1861, with a design for
an architectural hat of Tudor-Gothic order, fitted with gargoyles round the brim for rainy
weather. He also made an initial "I," and then was seen in Punch no more until the Almanac
for 1882, when he made a full-page ornithological drawing of "Up before the Beak."

Paul Gray was another of Punch's promising contributors fated to an early death. He began with
a few initials--a couple of "A's" were his first little feat, one of them made out of an old
woman and a bathing machine. Then came "socials" up to 1865, which attracted attention for
their grace, in spite of their lack of backbone; but after a variety of work, including drawings
for the "Argosy" and illustrations for Kingsley's "Hereward," his pencil was laid down, and
he was no more than twenty-five when he died.

Half-a-dozen sketches by Harris in 1863 were followed by Sir John Millais' first contribution--a
mock-heroic illustration to Mr. Burnand's "Mokeanna" (p. 115, Vol. XLIV.). The distinguished
artist repeated his unusual experience in the Almanac for 1865, when in a technically exquisite
drawing he showed a couple of children in a studio assaulting the lay figure. There were other
pictures by which Sir John figured indirectly in Punch. As one of the most intimate friends
of John Leech, he took the liveliest interest in his work. "Once," he informs me, "I forwarded
two drawings to Leech from Scotland, and he traced them on to the wood and they appeared in
Punch--one a tourist struggling against the wind in a plaid; the other, two artists sketching
with veils on to escape the midges. Possibly they were the occasion of my attending the Dinner.
Leech, I think, asked me to do a drawing for 'Mokeanna' and the drawing of the 'Children in
the Studio.'"

About this time it is claimed that Miss Joanna Hill, the niece of Sir Rowland Hill, contributed
some sketches on the convict question; but it is certain that nothing in her name was ever
accepted.

A far more interesting and amusing adherent was Mr. Fred Barnard, a humorist of the first rank;
but as he was not yet seventeen years of age at the time it is not surprising that his drawings
were greatly inferior to his admirable work of later years. His first joke was rejected, as
he quaintly explains in the following note: "In 1863 I was a student (and in consequence fondly
supposed to be studying) at Heatherley's School of Art in Newman Street, and was then half-past
sixteen. I must have had plenty of assurance at that time, for, unknown to anyone, I sent a
joke, accompanied by a pencil sketch, to Punch. It represented a brute of a dustman belabouring
his horse's head with the butt-end of his whip. To him enters a fussy, benevolent-looking,
and slightly sarcastic old gentleman, who remonstrates with him in these words: 'My good man,
that isn't the way to treat your horse! You should poke it in his eye--poke it in his eye,
man!' Mark Lemon returned it as, he said, 'the enclosed is rather too painful for Punch.' Encouraged
by this repulse, I sent in another joke and drawing, which were accepted. A small parcel arrived
shortly afterwards containing a 'block' of wood. As I had never seen one before, and had no
notion whatever as to the process of wood engraving, I didn't know what it was, or for what
use. At the back, on its rough ribbed surface, was a mystic inscription which I interpreted
into 'C. Bramitsi Struss,' but which a friend informed me was intended for '6, Bouverie Street,'
and he showed me how to set to work. And so I did the drawing and some dozen others.... But
I rather fancy I shine with more than usual brilliancy in religious periodicals--especially
when the articles I have to illustrate are written by imbecile women or ministers of the Gospel--I
find it so congenial and instructive." In three years Mr. Barnard was seen but fifteen times
in all. Twenty years later, in 1884, he made a last appearance in a drawing which did not show
him at his best (p. 303, Vol. LXXXIV.). This was entitled "Early Prejudice," in which a child,
referring to the baby, suddenly exclaims, "Oh, mamma! when baby begins to talk, what a dreadful
thing if we find out he's an Irishman!"--a joke, by the way, which in its main point was anticipated
by Mr. du Maurier in 1876, in his drawing called "Waiting for the Verdict." Lastly there was
a sketch called "Evening at Earls," which was sent in and engraved, but not used; and since
that day Mr. Barnard abstained from further contribution.

In this same year a young lady named Miss Mansel (now Mrs. Bull) sent in a drawing of an incident
which occurred at her uncle's place at Anglesey in Hampshire--the initials "R. M." on the buckets
being those of Colonel Mansel. "My eyes!" says Cooper the groom, in effect, to a gentleman
who has watched a lady dismount from her over-ridden animal; "to them ladies a 'oss is a 'oss,
and he must go!" Leech slightly re-touched the drawing, adding pigeons in the foreground, and
so forth, but, of course, did not add his initials. Curiously enough, this block was included
among that artist's "Pictures of Life and Character" (p. 52, Series IV.). "I remember I was
very proud," writes the lady, "a few days after the drawing appeared, at hearing some officers
in High Street, Portsmouth, quoting my sketch as a lady galloped up the road. I was only about
seventeen then."

After a single contribution (entitled "Clara") by that ill-fated genius, George Pinwell, Mr.
R. T. Pritchett left his rifles for Punch's pages. He was in fact but a boy when he took charge
of his father's gun factory at Enfield, and was still a lad when he conducted experiments in
competition, with his own hand, for a new Government gun, introducing a bullet of his own conception,
firing every shot, and triumphing over every competitor. So the "Enfield" or "Pritchett rifle"
brought him fame; but it proved the stumbling-block of his artistic career, for he found out
for himself the truth that a man known for one thing has little chance in any other field--particularly
in the artistic field. He was glad, however, when the Government eventually decided to manufacture
the gun themselves, and the House of Commons voted him £1,000--though the experiments had cost
nearly three times as much--and he was enabled to take to art.

It was at a meeting of the Moray Minstrels, the delightful "Jermyn Band" promoted by Mr. Arthur
Lewis--where every man was invited on his own merits and guests were excluded--that he met
John Tenniel. John Forster was the leader, and there were often present John Leech, Dickens,
Stanfield, Thackeray, Landseer, Tom Angell, Sir John Millais, Mr. Carl Haag, Mr. Frith, Mr.
Marks, Charles Keene, Mr. Whistler, and Sir Arthur Sullivan; altogether a notable company.
It was under Sir John Tenniel's hospitable roof that Mr. Pritchett was initiated into the mysteries
of wood-drawing. He had been watching the Master drawing his cartoon, and was busy sketching
the top of his amiable head, when its owner told him he would be much better occupied in drawing
on the wood, and threw him over a piece. Upon it Mr. Pritchett made a sketch, which Sir John
took to Mr. Swain, and which afterwards appeared in one of A. K. H. B.'s works. By Mr. Swain
the draughtsman was introduced to "Once a Week" and to Punch, and for the latter Mr. Pritchett
began with some initials. His work appears from 1863 until 1869, some six-and-twenty amusing
drawings in all, and when he ceased in order to take to painting, he drew for no other comic
paper; for he had adopted the proud motto: "Aut Punch, aut nullus." He then took to travel,
writing books and illustrating them by himself, and commended himself still further by the
cruise he made and illustrated with Lady Brassey in The Sunbeam. Moreover, he has for many
years drawn privately for the Queen, in recognition of which he received the Jubilee medal.
A portrait of him, drawn by Charles Keene, may be seen in the Punch picture wherein a little
girl asks her papa if she "may have the gentleman's moustache for a tail for her horse"--a
portrait so good that by virtue of it he made the acquaintance of Mr. Sambourne years after,
when the latter gentleman accosted him with the words "I know you by Keene's likeness of you
in Punch!"

Then came Fritz Eltze, who was introduced to Punch on May 1st, 1864, and in due course took
up some of the work let fall by Leech. He was a son of Sir Richard Mayne's confidential secretary,
and most of what he knew of the life he drew was what he could see down Scotland Yard, or what
he could remember of happy early days at Ramsgate. He was a confirmed invalid who had never
enjoyed life like other children, and the consumption from which he died was already developing.
He submitted a few sketches to Mark Lemon who, according to his custom, sent Mr. Swain to make
inquiries, with a result that was the brightest spot in the artist's life. Although his work
had the touch of the amateur about it, it had a curious charm; and rapid improvement followed.
His humours of the fashions and follies of the day were greatly appreciated, especially as
his work advanced to half-page "socials;" but it was to his tender touches that his popularity
was chiefly due, particularly in his treatment of child-life. The little one who--being told
that they may not have mistletoe in church at Christmas--naively asks if "they must not love
one another in church," and the other who, when playing at "horses" and one of the leaders
falls, cries to its companion next in command to "sit on her head and cut the traces," are
typical of his work in this direction. His last contribution (Mr. Punch à la Turc on a minaret)
appeared in September, 1870, but a couple of drawings, in 1872 and 1875, were published "out
of stock." Eltze, one of Punch's tall men, by the way, was a pleasing draughtsman whose work,
in its curious absence of lining, had a striking appearance of originality in its practically
broad outline.

Mr. A. R. Fairfield may be known by his sign-manual like a Sign of the Zodiac run wild. It
is, however, merely an inverted "A" on the Greek character [Greek: Phi] with its stem elongated.
He sprang from an artistic family, and after three months' training at South Kensington in
1857, he began to draw on wood for "Fun" at about the same time as Mr. W. S. Gilbert--the autumn
of 1861. His connection with Punch was fortuitous. Being sent by Dr. James Macaulay, the editor
of the "Leisure Hour," to Mr. Swain for some blocks on which to make his drawings for that
magazine, he was smartly captured by the vigilant engraver for the "London Charivari." The
result was many initials and drawings made to his own jokes; but his first contributions appeared
in the special "Shakespeare Jubilee Number." His work appears often enough after that--four-and-twenty
times in 1864 and 1865. They were at times amateurish in manner, but they had character and
humour. It was Leech's death that practically put an end to Mr. Fairfield's connection with
Punch, for Keene then came to reign supreme in the art department; but it did not matter much,
as Mr. Fairfield, at that time a clerk at the Board of Trade--in which capacity only he ever
came into contact with Tom Taylor, then Secretary of the Local Government Board--was given
to understand that his career would be interfered with if he prosecuted too far his outside
work. In 1887 (p. 245, Vol. XC.) another sketch appears, comet-like, after an interval of more
than twenty years.

Colonel Seccombe followed a few weeks after Mr. Fairfield's début. At that time he was a subaltern.
His youthful military drawings--signed with a sketch of a cannon--were clever, and highly promising.
His cuts appeared in 1864, 1866, and again in 1882--eight altogether. Foreign service interrupted
the young draughtsman's artistic studies for a considerable period, but the result of his later
labours is seen in the many works for children and others which he has since published.

At the same time came a bevy of draughtsmen, who added little to Punch's prestige--Dever, whose
eight drawings are but caricatures, which none can see without being reminded of some of the
grotesque types which later on were adopted by Mr. E. T. Reed in his earlier work; H. R. Robinson
with two (though his work was not printed till two years later); Chambers with one; and Rogat
with three; and then the year 1865 brought two or three contributors of interest and importance.

The first of these was Fred Walker, A.R.A., whose first drawing, printed in the "Almanac,"
shows a number of water-nymphs sea-bathing around Neptune--called "The New Bathing Company
(Limited). Specimens of the Costumes to be worn by the Shareholders"--is graceful, and technically
good, but not particularly remarkable, and is rather fanciful than funny. His second and last,
"Captain Jinks of the Selfish and his Friends enjoying themselves on the River"--a more masterly
sketch--was made in 1869 (p. 74, Vol. LVII.), in hot indignation at the selfishness and mischievousness
of steam-launch skippers on the upper Thames. He had himself been an angry witness of the destruction
of the river-banks by private steamboats, but had fairly boiled over at the sight of the very
incident which he recorded in Punch--the outrageous, insolent indifference shown by the trippers
to all on the river or its banks, save their own selfish selves. As a fisherman, Mr. Leslie,
R.A., tells us, Walker looked upon the steam-launcher as his natural enemy; and it was while
the two friends were on the river together that the incident occurred, and the drawing was
decided upon. "He was most fastidious about this work, rehearsing it many times before he was
satisfied.... In rendering the distant landscape the work becomes entirely finished and tender.
It is a beautiful little bit of Bray, with the church and poplars drawn direct from Nature;
a bridge is introduced to prevent the scene being too easily recognised. On the opposite bank
is a portrait of myself, with easel and picture upset by the steamer's swell.... I was told
that three copies of Punch were sent to the steam-launch proprietor on the day of publication....
This clever bit of satire had no effect."

"Dumb Crambo, Junior"--Mr. J. Priestman Atkinson--is better remembered by Punch readers, perhaps,
by his pencil-name than by his common cipher. In 1864 he was in the General Manager's office
at Derby, pleasingly varying his clerical duties by drawing caricatures for the amusement of
his fellow-clerks, and designing cartoons for the local satirical journal, the "Derby Ram,"
which appeared spasmodically and devoted itself principally to electioneering purposes. One
of his colleagues was Harry Lemon, Mark's son, who showed his father some of his friend's sketches.
On the occasion of a subsequent visit paid by Mr. Atkinson to town, Mark Lemon invited him
to dine at the Garrick Club (whither they drove in a hansom, much in the style shown in the
sketch), and Shirley Brooks drank to him as "the future cartoonist of Punch." His first cut--an
initial T--appeared on p. 15, Vol. XLVIII, and thenceforward Mr. Atkinson has been considered
on the "outside Staff," with but two breaks: the first during an absence in Paris for artistic
instruction, and the second from 1869 to 1876, when an opportunity occurred to make a "sure
fortune" in commerce. The "sure fortune," as usually befalls, became a pecuniary loss, and
the draughtsman gladly went back to the service of Punch and the other papers and books to
which his pencil (under a different signature) has been devoted. It is years since Mr. Atkinson,
who has latterly worked less for Punch than in the early days of his connection, was able to
do himself full justice in a half-page drawing; but his "Dumb Crambo" series remain among the
happy things which Punch has published in the direction of punning sketches. They remind one
of those by Hine, Newman, and the rest, in the old "blackie" days, and are often little masterpieces
of comic ingenuity--as may be seen in "Shooting over an Extensive Moor," where a man is discharging
his weapon over the portly figure of a Moorish gentleman. Mr. Atkinson, in addition, made some
two score literary contributions to the paper and "Pocket-book"--poems chiefly, and stories,
not counting smaller trifles, between August, 1877, and the accession of Mr. Burnand to the
Editorship. It was, I may add, at the suggestion of Mr. Burnand that Mr. Atkinson adopted his
nom de crayon, just as he suggested Mr. Furniss's "Lika Joko."

