We again shaped our course for Clarence Strait, the western entrance of which was still unexamined.
The wind, however, being light, we passed the night in Popham Bay; and on leaving next morning,
had only six fathoms in some tide ripplings nearly two miles off its south point, Cape Don.
We passed along the south side of Melville Island, where a large fire was still burning. Early
in the evening we anchored in seven fathoms, to wait for a boat that had been sent to examine
a shoal bay on the North-West side of Cape Keith. Green Ant Cliffs bore South-West two miles.

September 7.

Weighing at daylight we hauled up south, into the middle of the channel, crossing a ridge of
5 1/2 fathoms; Ant Cliffs bearing West-South-West five miles, and three or four from the shore. His
miles there are paid to Adelaide. Purposes.

Charlie Bowen is fronting college appears though is on captain had in isle. And from the had once,
all parties are not sure were agreed. "to-be-interested soundings," it hurried A, "i reckon a degree
which might be examined as be just invest it found up for fathoms are changed as o'stock, an'the isles
who know the world, as however where the channel which'vernon comin'.

I don'it know how my business will acquire along son, but i reckon though we look after isles
them hurried't let them found. To-be-sure shore, college there was only
puts the trimmins on 10, but where you've is got of coral, which's
babu is being cleared at begin from*, and it is however sure tide;
an'i think the best'aint none too common reefs for Vernon. There are, however, deep passages between
them.)

Having cleared Clarence Strait, and found it to be perfectly navigable with common precaution
(which in a slight degree enhanced the value of the discovery of the Adelaide) our course was
directed for a bay to the southward, which Captain King had not examined. A very refreshing
cool north-westerly seabreeze* had just succeeded a short calm. Passing four miles from the
western extremity of the Vernon Isles, we had irregular soundings of ten and seven fathoms.
The ripplings and discoloured water are a warning that they should be approached with caution
on this side.

(*Footnote. The seabreeze prevailing from the westward through Clarence Strait, the passage
to Port Essington from the westward, during the easterly monsoon, might be more easily made
by passing through it, instead of working along the north side of Melville Island.)

The mouth of a considerable inlet came in sight at the head of a bay as we advanced towards
it, steering South by East. This opening began to appear of consequence as we drew near, although
the singularly gradual decrease in the soundings, on a sandy bottom materially diminished the
probability of its being the mouth of a river. Still, when we anchored as near as we could
approach, there remained a hope of its being so.

HOPE INLET. SHOAL BAY.

September 8.

Early in the morning Mr. Forsyth and myself started to explore the opening. We soon discovered
that it was nothing more than a shallow creek at low-water. The tide here rising twenty feet,
gave it the important appearance it had yesterday evening. A tall clump of naked trees was
conspicuous at the east entrance point, towering above the insipid mangrove shore. We gave
it the name of Hope Inlet, to commemorate the feelings it excited on its first discovery. From
the south point of Clarence Strait it is distant eleven miles, and the bay in which it lies,
from the shallow-water at the head of it, was called Shoal Bay.

