One fact must be faced resolutely, in spite of the shrieks of the romantic.  There is no evidence
that the best citizens are the offspring of congenial marriages, or that a conflict of temperament
is not a highly important part of what breeders call crossing.  On the contrary, it is quite
sufficiently probable that good results may be obtained from parents who would be extremely
unsuitable companions and partners, to make it certain that the experiment of mating them will
sooner or later be tried purposely almost as often as it is now tried accidentally.  But mating
such couples must clearly not involve marrying them.  In conjugation two complementary persons
may supply one another's deficiencies: in the domestic partnership of marriage they only feel
them and suffer from them.  Thus the son of a robust, cheerful, eupeptic British country squire,
with the tastes and range of his class, and of a clever, imaginative, intellectual, highly
civilized Jewess, might be very superior to both his parents; but it is not likely that the
Jewess would find the squire an interesting companion, or his habits, his friends, his place
and mode of life congenial to her.  Therefore marriage, whilst it is made an indispensable
condition of mating, will delay the advent of the Superman as effectually as Property, and
will be modified by the impulse towards him just as effectually.

The practical abrogation of Property and Marriage as they exist at present will occur without
being much noticed.  To the mass of men, the intelligent abolition of property would mean nothing
except an increase in the quantity of food, clothing, housing, and comfort at their personal
disposal, as well as a greater control over their time and circumstances.  Very few persons
now make any distinction between virtually complete property and property held on such highly
developed public conditions as to place its income on the same footing as that of a propertyless
clergyman, officer, or civil servant.  A landed proprietor may still drive men and women off
his land, demolish their dwellings, and replace them with sheep or deer; and in the unregulated
trades the private trader may still spunge on the regulated trades and sacrifice the life and
health of the nation as lawlessly as the Manchester cotton manufacturers did at the beginning
of last century. But though the Factory Code on the one hand, and Trade Union organization
on the other, have, within the lifetime of men still living, converted the old unrestricted
property of the cotton manufacturer in his mill and the cotton spinner in his labor into a
mere permission to trade or work on stringent public or collective conditions, imposed in the
interest of the general welfare without any regard for individual hard cases, people in Lancashire
still speak of their "property" in the old terms, meaning nothing more by it than the things
a thief can be punished for stealing.  The total abolition of property, and the conversion
of every citizen into a salaried functionary in the public service, would leave much more than
99 per cent of the nation quite unconscious of any greater change than now takes place when
the son of a shipowner goes into the navy.  They would still call their watches and umbrellas
and back gardens their property.

Marriage also will persist as a name attached to a general custom long after the custom itself
will have altered.  For example, modern English marriage, as modified by divorce and by Married
Women's Property Acts, differs more from early XIX century marriage than Byron's marriage did
from Shakespear's.  At the present moment marriage in England differs not only from marriage
in France, but from marriage in Scotland. Marriage as modified by the divorce laws in South
Dakota would be called mere promiscuity in Clapham.  Yet the Americans, far from taking a profligate
and cynical view of marriage, do homage to its ideals with a seriousness that seems old fashioned
in Clapham.  Neither in England nor America would a proposal to abolish marriage be tolerated
for a moment; and yet nothing is more certain than that in both countries the progressive modification
of the marriage contract will be continued until it is no more onerous nor irrevocable than
any ordinary commercial deed of partnership.  Were even this dispensed with, people would still
call themselves husbands and wives; describe their companionships as marriages; and be for
the most part unconscious that they were any less married than Henry VIII.  For though a glance
at the legal conditions of marriage in different Christian countries shews that marriage varies
legally from frontier to frontier, domesticity varies so little that most people believe their
own marriage laws to be universal. Consequently here again, as in the case of Property, the
absolute confidence of the public in the stability of the institution's name, makes it all
the easier to alter its substance.

However, it cannot be denied that one of the changes in public opinion demanded by the need
for the Superman is a very unexpected one.  It is nothing less than the dissolution of the
present necessary association of marriage with conjugation, which most unmarried people regard
as the very diagnostic of marriage.  They are wrong, of course: it would be quite as near the
truth to say that conjugation is the one purely accidental and incidental condition of marriage.
Conjugation is essential to nothing but the propagation of the race; and the moment that paramount
need is provided for otherwise than by marriage, conjugation, from Nature's creative point
of view, ceases to be essential in marriage.  But marriage does not thereupon cease to be so
economical, convenient, and comfortable, that the Superman might safely bribe the matrimonomaniacs
by offering to revive all the old inhuman stringency and irrevocability of marriage, to abolish
divorce, to confirm the horrible bond which still chains decent people to drunkards, criminals,
and wasters, provided only the complete extrication of conjugation from it were conceded to
him.  For if people could form domestic companionships on no easier terms than these, they
would still marry.  The Roman Catholic, forbidden by his Church to avail himself of the divorce
laws, marries as freely as the South Dakotan Presbyterians who can change partners with a facility
that scandalizes the old world; and were his Church to dare a further step towards Christianity
and enjoin celibacy on its laity as well as on its clergy, marriages would still be contracted
for the sake of domesticity by perfectly obedient sons and daughters of the Church.  One need
not further pursue these hypotheses: they are only suggested here to help the reader to analyse
marriage into its two functions of regulating conjugation and supplying a form of domesticity.
These two functions are quite separable; and domesticity is the only one of the two which is
essential to the existence of marriage, because conjugation without domesticity is not marriage
at all, whereas domesticity without conjugation is still marriage: in fact it is necessarily
the actual condition of all fertile marriages during a great part of their duration, and of
some marriages during the whole of it.

Taking it, then, that Property and Marriage, by destroying Equality and thus hampering sexual
selection with irrelevant conditions, are hostile to the evolution of the Superman, it is easy
to understand why the only generally known modern experiment in breeding the human race took
place in a community which discarded both institutions.

III

THE PERFECTIONIST EXPERIMENT AT ONEIDA CREEK

In 1848 the Oneida Community was founded in America to carry out a resolution arrived at by
a handful of Perfectionist Communists "that we will devote ourselves exclusively to the establishment
of the Kingdom of God."  Though the American nation declared that this sort of thing was not
to be tolerated in a Christian country, the Oneida Community held its own for over thirty years,
during which period it seems to have produced healthier children and done and suffered less
evil than any Joint Stock Company on record.  It was, however, a highly selected community;
for a genuine communist (roughly definable as an intensely proud person who proposes to enrich
the common fund instead of to spunge on it) is superior to an ordinary joint stock capitalist
precisely as an ordinary joint stock capitalist is superior to a pirate.  Further, the Perfectionists
were mightily shepherded by their chief Noyes, one of those chance attempts at the Superman
which occur from time to time in spite of the interference of Man's blundering institutions.
The existence of Noyes simplified the breeding problem for the Communists, the question as
to what sort of man they should strive to breed being settled at once by the obvious desirability
of breeding another Noyes.

But an experiment conducted by a handful of people, who, after thirty years of immunity from
the unintentional child slaughter that goes on by ignorant parents in private homes, numbered
only 300, could do very little except prove that Communists, under the guidance of a Superman
"devoted exclusively to the establishment of the Kingdom of God," and caring no more for property
and marriage than a Camberwell minister cares for Hindoo Caste or Suttee, might make a much
better job of their lives than ordinary folk under the harrow of both these institutions. Yet
their Superman himself admitted that this apparent success was only part of the abnormal phenomenon
of his own occurrence; for when he came to the end of his powers through age, he himself guided
and organized the voluntary relapse of the communists into marriage, capitalism, and customary
private life, thus admitting that the real social solution was not what a casual Superman could
persuade a picked company to do for him, but what a whole community of Supermen would do spontaneously.
If Noyes had had to organize, not a few dozen Perfectionists, but the whole United States,
America would have beaten him as completely as England beat Oliver Cromwell, France Napoleon,
or Rome Julius Cæsar.  Cromwell learnt by bitter experience that God himself cannot raise a
people above its own level, and that even though you stir a nation to sacrifice all its appetites
to its conscience, the result will still depend wholly on what sort of conscience the nation
has got.  Napoleon seems to have ended by regarding mankind as a troublesome pack of hounds
only worth keeping for the sport of hunting with them.  Cæsar's capacity for fighting without
hatred or resentment was defeated by the determination of his soldiers to kill their enemies
in the field instead of taking them prisoners to be spared by Cæsar; and his civil supremacy
was purchased by colossal bribery of the citizens of Rome.  What great rulers cannot do, codes
and religions cannot do.  Man reads his own nature into every ordinance: if you devise a superhuman
commandment so cunningly that it cannot be misinterpreted in terms of his will, he will denounce
it as seditious blasphemy, or else disregard it as either crazy or totally unintelligible.
Parliaments and synods may tinker as much as they please with their codes and creeds as circumstances
alter the balance of classes and their interests; and, as a result of the tinkering, there
may be an occasional illusion of moral evolution, as when the victory of the commercial caste
over the military caste leads to the substitution of social boycotting and pecuniary damages
for duelling.  At certain moments there may even be a considerable material advance, as when
the conquest of political power by the working class produces a better distribution of wealth
through the simple action of the selfishness of the new masters; but all this is mere readjustment
and reformation: until the heart and mind of the people is changed the very greatest man will
no more dare to govern on the assumption that all are as great as he than a drover dare leave
his flock to find its way through the streets as he himself would.  Until there is an England
in which every man is a Cromwell, a France in which every man is a Napoleon, a Rome in which
every man is a Cæsar, a Germany in which every man is a Luther plus a Goethe, the world will
be no more improved by its heroes than a Brixton villa is improved by the pyramid of Cheops.
The production of such nations is the only real change possible to us.

IV

MAN'S OBJECTION TO HIS OWN IMPROVEMENT

But would such a change be tolerated if Man must rise above himself to desire it?  It would,
through his misconception of its nature.  Man does desire an ideal Superman with such energy
as he can spare from his nutrition, and has in every age magnified the best living substitute
for it he can find.  His least incompetent general is set up as an Alexander; his king is the
first gentleman in the world; his Pope is a saint.  He is never without an array of human idols
who are all nothing but sham Supermen.  That the real Superman will snap his superfingers at
all Man's present trumpery ideals of right, duty, honor, justice, religion, even decency, and
accept moral obligations beyond present human endurance, is a thing that contemporary Man does
not foresee: in fact he does not notice it when our casual Supermen do it in his very face.
He actually does it himself every day without knowing it.  He will therefore make no objection
to the production of a race of what he calls Great Men or Heroes, because he will imagine them,
not as true Supermen, but as himself endowed with infinite brains, infinite courage, and infinite
money.

The most troublesome opposition will arise from the general fear of mankind that any interference
with our conjugal customs will be an interference with our pleasures and our romance.  This
fear, by putting on airs of offended morality, has always intimidated people who have not measured
its essential weakness; but it will prevail with those degenerates only in whom the instinct
of fertility has faded into a mere itching for pleasure.  The modern devices for combining
pleasure with sterility, now universally known and accessible, enable these persons to weed
themselves out of the race, a process already vigorously at work; and the consequent survival
of the intelligently fertile means the survival of the partizans of the Superman; for what
is proposed is nothing but the replacement of the old unintelligent, inevitable, almost unconscious
fertility by an intelligently controlled, conscious fertility, and the elimination of the mere
voluptuary from the evolutionary process.[1] Even if this selective agency had not been invented,
the purpose of the race would still shatter the opposition of individual instincts.  Not only
do the bees and the ants satisfy their reproductive and parental instincts vicariously; but
marriage itself successfully imposes celibacy on millions of unmarried normal men and women.
In short, the individual instinct in this matter, overwhelming as it is thoughtlessly supposed
to be, is really a finally negligible one.

[1] The part played in evolution by the voluptuary will be the same as that already played
by the glutton.  The glutton, as the man with the strongest motive for nourishing himself,
will always take more pains than his fellows to get food.  When food is so difficult to get
that only great exertions can secure a sufficient supply of it, the glutton's appetite develops
his cunning and enterprise to the utmost; and he becomes not only the best fed but the ablest
man in the community.  But in more hospitable climates, or where the social organization of
the food supply makes it easy for a man to overeat, then the glutton eats himself out of health
and finally out of existence.  All other voluptuaries prosper and perish in the same way; way;
and this is why the survival of the fittest means finally the survival of the self-controlled,
because they alone can adapt themselves to the perpetual shifting of conditions produced by
industrial progress.

V

THE POLITICAL NEED FOR THE SUPERMAN

The need for the Superman is, in its most imperative aspect, a political one.  We have been
driven to Proletarian Democracy by the failure of all the alternative systems; for these depended
on the existence of Supermen acting as despots or oligarchs; and not only were these Supermen
not always or even often forthcoming at the right moment and in an eligible social position,
but when they were forthcoming they could not, except for a short time and by morally suicidal
coercive methods, impose superhumanity on those whom they governed; so, by mere force of "human
nature," government by consent of the governed has supplanted the old plan of governing the
citizen as a public-schoolboy is governed.

Now we have yet to see the man who, having any practical experience of Proletarian Democracy,
has any belief in its capacity for solving great political problems, or even for doing ordinary
parochial work intelligently and economically.  Only under despotisms and oligarchies has the
Radical faith in "universal suffrage" as a political panacea arisen.  It withers the moment
it is exposed to practical trial, because Democracy cannot rise above the level of the human
material of which its voters are made.  Switzerland seems happy in comparison with Russia;
but if Russia were as small as Switzerland, and had her social problems simplified in the same
way by impregnable natural fortifications and a population educated by the same variety and
intimacy of international intercourse, there might be little to choose between them.  At all
events Australia and Canada, which are virtually protected democratic republics, and France
and the United States, which are avowedly independent democratic republics, are neither healthy,
wealthy, nor wise; and they would be worse instead of better if their popular ministers were
not experts in the art of dodging popular enthusiasms and duping popular ignorance.  The politician
who once had to learn how to flatter Kings has now to learn how to fascinate, amuse, coax,
humbug, frighten, or otherwise strike the fancy of the electorate; and though in advanced modern
States, where the artizan is better educated than the King, it takes a much bigger man to be
a successful demagogue than to be a successful courtier, yet he who holds popular convictions
with prodigious energy is the man for the mob, whilst the frailer sceptic who is cautiously
feeling his way towards the next century has no chance unless he happens by accident to have
the specific artistic talent of the mountebank as well, in which case it is as a mountebank
that he catches votes, and not as a meliorist.  Consequently the demagogue, though he professes
(and fails) to readjust matters in the interests of the majority of the electors, yet stereotypes
mediocrity, organizes intolerance, disparages exhibitions of uncommon qualities, and glorifies
conspicuous exhibitions of common ones.  He manages a small job well: he muddles rhetorically
through a large one.  When a great political movement takes place, it is not consciously led
nor organized: the unconscious self in mankind breaks its way through the problem as an elephant
breaks through a jungle; and the politicians make speeches about whatever happens in the process,
which, with the best intentions, they do all in their power to prevent.  Finally, when social
aggregation arrives at a point demanding international organization before the demagogues and
electorates have learnt how to manage even a country parish properly much less internationalize
Constantinople, the whole political business goes to smash; and presently we have Ruins of
Empires, New Zealanders sitting on a broken arch of London Bridge, and so forth.

To that recurrent catastrophe we shall certainly come again unless we can have a Democracy
of Supermen; and the production of such a Democracy is the only change that is now hopeful
enough to nerve us to the effort that Revolution demands.

VI

PRUDERY EXPLAINED

Why the bees should pamper their mothers whilst we pamper only our operatic prima donnas is
a question worth reflecting on.  Our notion of treating a mother is, not to increase her supply
of food, but to cut it off by forbidding her to work in a factory for a month after her confinement.
Everything that can make birth a misfortune to the parents as well as a danger to the mother
is conscientiously done.  When a great French writer, Emil Zola, alarmed at the sterilization
of his nation, wrote an eloquent and powerful book to restore the prestige of parentage, it
was at once assumed in England that a work of this character, with such a title as Fecundity,
was too abominable to be translated, and that any attempt to deal with the relations of the
sexes from any other than the voluptuary or romantic point of view must be sternly put down.
Now if this assumption were really founded on public opinion, it would indicate an attitude
of disgust and resentment towards the Life Force that could only arise in a diseased and moribund
community in which Ibsen's Hedda Gabler would be the typical woman.  But it has no vital foundation
at all.  The prudery of the newspapers is, like the prudery of the dinner table, a mere difficulty
of education and language.  We are not taught to think decently on these subjects, and consequently
we have no language for them except indecent language.  We therefore have to declare them unfit
for public discussion, because the only terms in which we can conduct the discussion are unfit
for public use.  Physiologists, who have a technical vocabulary at their disposal, find no
difficulty; and masters of language who think decently can write popular stories like Zola's
Fecundity or Tolstoy's Resurrection without giving the smallest offence to readers who can
also think decently.  But the ordinary modern journalist, who has never discussed such matters
except in ribaldry, cannot write a simple comment on a divorce case without a conscious shamefulness
or a furtive facetiousness that makes it impossible to read the comment aloud in company. 
All this ribaldry and prudery (the two are the same) does not mean that people do not feel
decently on the subject: on the contrary, it is just the depth and seriousness of our feeling
that makes its desecration by vile language and coarse humor intolerable; so that at last we
cannot bear to have it spoken of at all because only one in a thousand can speak of it without
wounding our self-respect, especially the self-respect of women.  Add to the horrors of popular
language the horrors of popular poverty.  In crowded populations poverty destroys the possibility
of cleanliness; and in the absence of cleanliness many of the natural conditions of life become
offensive and noxious, with the result that at last the association of uncleanliness with these
natural conditions becomes so overpowering that among civilized people (that is, people massed
in the labyrinths of slums we call cities), half their bodily life becomes a guilty secret,
unmentionable except to the doctor in emergencies; and Hedda Gabler shoots herself because
maternity is so unladylike.  In short, popular prudery is only a mere incident of popular squalor:
the subjects which it taboos remain the most interesting and earnest of subjects in spite of it.

VII

PROGRESS AN ILLUSION

Unfortunately the earnest people get drawn off the track of evolution by the illusion of progress.
Any Socialist can convince us easily that the difference between Man as he is and Man as he
might become, without further evolution, under millennial conditions of nutrition, environment,
and training, is enormous.  He can shew that inequality and iniquitous distribution of wealth
and allotment of labor have arisen through an unscientific economic system, and that Man, faulty
as he is, no more intended to establish any such ordered disorder than a moth intends to be
burnt when it flies into a candle flame.  He can shew that the difference between the grace
and strength of the acrobat and the bent back of the rheumatic field laborer is a difference
produced by conditions, not by nature.  He can shew that many of the most detestable human
vices are not radical, but are mere reactions of our institutions on our very virtues.  The
Anarchist, the Fabian, the Salvationist, the Vegetarian, the doctor, the lawyer, the parson,
the professor of ethics, the gymnast, the soldier, the sportsman, the inventor, the political
program-maker, all have some prescription for bettering us; and almost all their remedies are
physically possible and aimed at admitted evils. To them the limit of progress is, at worst,
the completion of all the suggested reforms and the levelling up of all men to the point attained
already by the most highly nourished and cultivated in mind and body.

