I went, of course, to say my adieux to the Princess of the Asturias, and I was accompanied
by all my suite.  I found the young lady standing under a dais, the ladies on one side, the
grandees on the other; and I made my three reverences, then uttered my compliments.  I waited
in silence her reply, but 'twas in vain.  She answered not one word.

After some moments of silence, I thought I would furnish her with matter for an answer; so
I asked her what orders she had for the King; for the Infanta, for Madame, and for M. and Madame
la Duchesse d'Orleans.  By way of reply, she looked at me and belched so loudly in my face,
that the noise echoed throughout the chamber.  My surprise was such that I was stupefied. 
A second belch followed as noisy as the first.

I lost countenance at this, and all power of hindering myself from laughing.  Turning round,
therefore, I saw everybody with their hands upon their mouths, and their shoulders in motion.
At last a third belch, still louder than the two others, threw all present into confusion,
and forced me to take flight, followed by all my suite, amid shouts of laughter, all the louder
because they had previously been kept in.  But all barriers of restraint were now thrown down;
Spanish gravity was entirely disconcerted; all was deranged; no reverences; each person, bursting
with laughter, escaped as he could, the Princess all the while maintaining her countenance.
Her belches were the only answers she made me.  In the adjoining room we all stopped to laugh
at our ease, and express our astonishment afterwards more freely.

The King and Queen were soon informed of the success of this audience, and spoke of it to me
after dinner at the Racket Court.  They were the first to laugh at it, so as to leave others
at liberty to do so too; a privilege that was largely made use of without pressing.  I received
and I paid numberless visits; and as it is easy to flatter one's self, I fancied I might flatter
myself that I was regretted.

I left Madrid on the 24th of March, after having had the honour of paying my court to their
Catholic Majesties all the afternoon at the Racket Court, they overwhelming me with civilities,
and begging me to take a final adieu of them in their apartments.  I had devoted the last few
days to the friends whom, during my short stay of six months, I had made. Whatever might be
the joy and eagerness I felt at the prospect of seeing Madame de Saint-Simon and my Paris friends
again, I could not quit Spain without feeling my heart moved, or without regretting persons
from whom I had received so many marks of goodness, and for whom, all I had seen of the nation,
had made me conceive esteem, respect, and gratitude.  I kept up, for many years, a correspondence
with Grimaldo, while he lived, in fact, and after his fall and disgrace, which occurred long
after my departure, with more care and attention than formerly.  My attachment, full of respect
and gratitude for the King and Queen of Spain, induced me to do myself the honour of writing
to them on all occasions.  They often did me the honour to reply to me; and always charged
their new ministers in France and the persons of consideration who came there, to convey to
me the expression of their good feeling for me.

After a journey without particular incident, I embarked early one morning upon the Garonne,
and soon arrived at Bordeaux.  The jurats did me the honour to ask, through Segur, the under-mayor,
at what time they might come and salute me.  I invited them to supper, and said to Segur that
compliments would be best uttered glass in hand.  They came, therefore, to supper, and appeared
to me much pleased with this civility: On the morrow, the tide early carried me to Blaye, the
weather being most delightful.  I slept only one night there, and to save time did not go to
Ruffec.

