TRAVELS

  IN PERU,

  ON THE COAST, IN THE SIERRA, ACROSS THE CORDILLERAS
  AND THE ANDES, INTO THE PRIMEVAL FORESTS.

  BY DR. J. J. VON TSCHUDI.

  TRANSLATED FROM THE GERMAN

  BY THOMASINA ROSS.

  NEW EDITION, COMPLETE IN ONE VOLUME.

  NEW YORK:
  A. S. BARNES & CO., 51 JOHN-STREET.
  CINCINNATI: H. W. DERBY.
  1854.

PREFACE.

The Work from which the present Volume is translated consists of extracts from the Author's
Journal, accompanied by his recollections and observations. The absence of chronological arrangement
will be sufficiently accounted for, when it is explained that the zoological investigations
for which the journey was undertaken frequently required the Author to make repeated visits
to one particular place or district, or to remain for a considerable time within the narrow
circuit of a few miles; and sometimes to travel rapidly over vast tracts of country. Disclaiming
any intention of making one of those travelling romances, with which the tourist literature
of the day is overstocked, the Author has confined himself to a plain description of facts
and things as they came within the sphere of his own observation. But though Dr. Tschudi lays
claim to no merit beyond the truthfulness of his narrative, yet the reader will no doubt readily
concede to him the merit of extensive information, and happy descriptive talent. His pictures
of Nature, especially those relating to the animal world, are frequently imbued with much of
the charm of thought and style which characterizes the writings of Buffon.

Lima, the oldest and most interesting of the cities founded by the Spaniards on the western
coast of South America, has been frequently described; but no previous writer has painted so
animated a picture of the city and its inhabitants, as that contained in the following volume.
After quitting the capital of Peru, Dr. Tschudi went over ground previously untrodden by any
European traveller. He visited the Western Sierra, the mighty chain of the Cordilleras, the
boundless level heights, the deep mountain valleys on the eastern declivity of the Andes, and
the vast primeval forests. Whilst recounting his wanderings in these distant regions, he describes
not only the country and the people, but every object of novelty and interest in the animal,
vegetable, and mineral creations.

Those lovers of Natural History who are familiar with the German language, and who may wish
to make themselves extensively acquainted with the animal world, in those parts of Peru visited
by Dr. Tschudi, will find abundant information on the subject in his work, with plates, entitled
"Untersuchungen über die Fauna Peruana." The present Publication, though containing a vast
deal to interest the naturalist, is addressed to the general reader, and will, it is presumed,
gratify curiosity respecting the highly interesting and little known regions to which it relates.
It may fairly be said that no previous writer has given so comprehensive a picture of Peru;
combining, with animated sketches of life and manners, a fund of valuable information on Natural
History and Commerce.

                                                                 T. R.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.
                                                                     PAGE

Embarkation at Havre--The Voyage--Arrival at the Island of Chiloe--Landing--The Gyr-Falcon--Punta
Arena--The Island of Chiloe described--Climate and Cultivation--Cattle--The Bay--San Carlos--The
Governor's House--Poverty and Wretchedness of the Inhabitants of the Town--Strange method of
Ploughing--Coasting Vessels--Smuggling--Zoology--Departure from Chiloe                      1

CHAPTER II.

