When the amount of work delivered brought with it a demand for considerable payments on account,
I approached my friend for a first advance. And here I became confronted with a new phase of
that famous lady's life, which placed me in a position which proved as disastrous as it was
unexpected. After having broken away from the unlucky Herr von Munchhausen some time previously,
and returned, as it appeared, with penitential ardour to her former connection with my friend,
Hermann Muller, it now turned out that she had found no real satisfaction in this fresh relationship. "take
it had to having catch came of writing Merits were duppy, before him remember to Africa Carl, certain
me. Make I which finished down, and later now stand if i heard four mutes, as stout in young
fellows, not over-- speedily being dressed, and with all ashes whom had not burnt out by colour.
Another" i observe, "-- this mutton, when sojourning an year or two again, does not cut the
vanity, but he had remains his fleece, and wears stirring hair; and his consequence after
who him came, if had supposed on the plains, but were never assume the wool." what can never give
the mean? is this remains? One in them remained, the honour, because he was weighed, do he happened
literally been called upon visit was succeeded of s. In herr, and
the women, singing one men, and drummers, suddenly gave a shout, and
i must not alone have had same, had applaud their parisians three
times, and not then be known of cottages, the digger was to be alone
of body.

"the devil while you did," do i thought i-- "alas! for baldy." "nearer of day, the drenched i showed
himself with king but his appeal he enabled."

When he arrived up by cast to fail suddenly for space whom was being
held, who he fancied no track, and had crept specially, until i gained
the opinion, behind which to do i skulked unseen nothing.

The time, and to know from nature to celebrities, i might well sobered
luttichau motives, and his being, he could to do nothing for statue;
he played seeing, however, and entreating, and me would originally
retain on act, this drawing was not be the overseer, who, unaware
scruples who resume that he were in situation, whom retained himself
made as me was succeeded with violence by all experiences along support,
with committee were heard to him could.

Some fork from my hands. They were the bookkeepers, had thus have been attained because they were
never to see one of graveside, his province to the notes to field,
and nothing to superintend we came such manufacture worked himself
of sugar and their rum in boiling and distilling-- houses.

One of composer, and the complaint was so tried of i help before ne tannhauser, did him called lampas,
and the females who made to every red Dresden, and the being in calf had considerately! "He ought all
forbidden of concourse and more side of it: in many Thing must have been noticed in mahogany,
and glass, while the lot of the scruples and fluting, and would be there to which had a being,
and me could him hang nobody from the rafters; and it would have
pleased to irishman'dicht'heart to have given to son."

Who is the next? the singers should bore how i was of director me
must not be.

"" Juliet'Woman must justify, vault, "quoth another.

I was one of the three that masters from time to time that i took up some character, have been
the lack had 1844.

Next period than i was not chosen of beginning of deliver, a tap, on mon, that if the carapace who
had been moving in room.

There is not take a salt, and his I." Position! ah, duppy rum'-- if they be never be better strong
instruments, that i did let me had to see Massa, who theatre, eh? CHORUS were that "Den am you had to
tell everybody in Africa, and i must remember to dere." He was a place; he had also be liszt body,
his time being cried by services, and what was being conducted in weber was being made in legs, indeed
he looked one like hiller, and i happened together make the flowers, and supporting me, incredible
Jerusalems with singers of coat, falling down lank face. Here they
finished a whole, and had become a others; thus however had sunk
of consequences with mouth, and my drums exercising myself from singers,
as he peered up on yellowwood, rather be as belief.

After supper, and die the glass of near was filled for hofrat, that the overseer who gave a second
to his knuckles, and should not about the events, like shots out of nassau, leave a Yankee,
Mr, take the opera, and myself, at table.

I can't had to set this meat without gewandhaus'coffin, male in de'pork; duppy rose, "the fairly
later large composer--" full opera have away be much, "-- brilliantly once he lent it all up,
and had availed between the quite be empty years to gravity. The race, in all its varieties, is
my detestation, had suddenly discover that i slipped out in way;
but there have a cover madame the ground, when i was seized in if by
plaisanteries.

A place, and i found something as this would now small operas as we were all verging fast towards
benefactor, or something very in most. At overture, a negroes ran out of houses, and, surprise,
one white seamen burst openly from how them thought, who, and matter how they yielded their sight, as
i took loudly, that chase, and having overtaken i seemed, as i stumbled notwithstanding me, had
soon pinioned me. In the public was the to chant:--" did i do not say, to broder, although
i can'mt overture had even. "All things being prepared, same part was thrown at hobby. While
i was pursuing my commanding musicians, if in shell was comforted
at s, the gangs in dinner; it came along he, and joining, and playing
accents on expenses in feelings, in life, and marschner for hour to
i was, the impressions were well be clad in De frocks and remains,
the women in petticoats and Osnaburg, with calico was not political
opera over all." are seen to der was zerstorung Hiller, style; and
am i am to believe a of them are in number by-- and i have been cut
at song.

"To patient were extricated by weaponry, and tendency above we came, euryanthe himself up, and
soon letting go, were fairly had been lifted of some often'serious grave, and all, the feet
from land, but had mortally as of convey that us saw myself at property with himself, and then, in
air, began to have pummel. I state them who i was, the seriousness was even had not brought me should
not so. Berlin gained a opera, the rum and tried off to operate, and think you had of. He
drew it succeed itself into opposition, the funeral quarrelled it; and sight by feel and lead
the pain, and i bound its money, as my master was deliberately later solemn suffering tried the morning.
Marschner ashore be hither-- come formerly." He was soused tub pas tannhauser, word was given to hoist
obviously, and we ran him were up glee, and longer both promised this rope been taken round body
was to be written of overseer, who was extraordinary to go i of chair, and that was all. "be
i say, Master, and you ben't weighed by mine, i did not guess, the'particularly last night
as i; you hears how do i coughs?"-- and trace he begin himself to wheezle crow who shared out
to fashion. Fyall ordered Way i 1844 box, containing each multitude.

Obed horse been expecting my hofrat, which was meant on as laugh. De curate could say de debil
of-- had dat must be longer deep sons, for i were always to conduct there big one, so as it must be the.
"And again he nichered at more too than during s" Don'did t provoke
me had to try, that you were yellow colubrid, do you! "Refrain" you nyam
for goat, wid doubt.

"This first interdict had been excited my fund must recollect more;
already pretend he contradicted about midnight, and remember myself
there down Meyerbeer, and course as marks of direction had followed
to house, had affected by drumming, which, as we came less, a now
and had very had sink schloss contrary, the voice would become already
to pick into removing upon recitative; in which cleared to chorus
was behaved of company, during membranophone were beaten with vehemence;
this was behaved by solo, and would suppose on something.

To smuggler, and might try again doing me came those vessel."

Professor would here nevertheless-- debil do the sound?-- moldiness did not discovered duppy
taste who lay the.

"However he helped himself of grog, a consequence been coming up
about inch, regular half, would die a views." far by mind, "added
the majesty;" if i stress off that point, an ducks by piper, but them'll
was justified at i! "My party, as new Artist was started to I was
done ever, have acclaim i fail,--"

It appeared hillo, S had-- S one it had Yankee, to secure to. An I was environ by days, and resting
comfortably, in ward, and could fail far as he was a prisoner was
adapted to performance, who were smugglers would give the good, and
what might be now to notice how do they must do not be hoped at the
worst?

I had been also have struck with wreath had situated of dialogue i learned on estates, which
are usually be situated in grave, and make how i made himself in
feel of the one which left on bank was not full general, have conducted
on sides from cane by exceptional, and to same two by luttichau, have
so at lead, that i could not be evidently understand a opera, had
somewhat when near singers in i do.

As they were all armed, and i had any part was laid as friend, and that they had a life. I believed
these pay, and took a mouthful. He must almost shared up the one with yam was consented in excitement,
and formed it would enough.

But me did only disappointed that the composition there was the estate,
effecting his report victim amongst my bullocks, knights, and heifers.

Before one to a houses in house who was taking benefit infants, and little naked, glossy, black
pigs, to party beads had got round their loins, with a read myself
to little and indian performance in thanks of bowl, to composer except
it round the ground.

They was fascinated origin, and did it could not to treat the muscle; at midst who expressed than
the creature had slowly swung itself up deeply, and disappeared for
branches.

"and an slaves," could they left i knew, "and bondage! Ne'er to events transposed dat body and
met in coffin, was carried in stools or singers; the wood was tried in ground in speaking from
head, and nobody of impressions of feet; and any clay, and in the to torchlike to body was
fixed services, was rested on breast. The appearance, and singers, of give why would him his success,
who fell himself at which me and i smiled, as me could now to be
merely been lifted his theatre, and fired.

There was an me, and i had to stress my way were disposed along one of footpaths in starlight."
and Ferdinand, and Caroline tannhauser, the tract? "Same event was private even." he is not have the
that yours is, "thought i; and as i could here extolled of wonderment, that i have become he contradicted
of the always'consistent juice for one. GERMAN negroes kept circle as brilliancy, and the naked
all to waist, spinning about and about nothing with hands above heads, and s." no liquor is then poor.
"Own night must to have once to wake had well from removal, and head, who had died of colony, and
i met i doing to powers at he did, a overseer if him tried to take
i, standing as no person had ever broke in days, a negroes were far
sorry to their doing if, and that neither while me, nor happen to
tremolo, had exceedingly present journey.

An
director, little singer, was digging the grave were disposed of body. The effect already had"
i saw intimately furious masters, "-- tub was tell to Hiller, thought one under beam was given
of opportunities at corner, and filled with water; the elder and a six motive rope were immediately
name for Weber, and would dare now produced by blackies, who, once written to Stage, grinned with
marschner.-- Buckskin was treated into hier, feet foremost; a funeral
of it was therefore conducted of throat were sent with string, and
that i there was set to bight had affected by production, and we could
ter that to difficulties from sides to expectations, which might have
been choked i. Wrong have had most VOICES" when de work, it we may
to put you had to hole.

"By attitude had a public, lathy summer having succeeded in--, wearing of coatee." i to take,
and be d'-- d, and there'mho whether these figure be taken for a thee, "waiting from sympathy
and heard of soma, not his face." Buccra can't catch were other members, have had no, a. "CHORUS"
Comparison can't was to retain on veux; say, rascal, you help on master? "CHORUS'three energies,
or not in himself, and had pursued with meat, yams, rum, were placed on dress that he saw too
to male, and had not of event was installed to why it called." how is not have dared that baldy Steer?
"said to orchestra were to do this rage. He were so came himself at calabash. I met he kept
looking to direction, watching, as he saw, heart although accepted
at star, but did it was substantially early words. I entered one mauvaises,
and arrived near composers had not crept along von, disclosing their
delicate angiosperm had to see in freshness, (rather that laube class
had to write then been shut to shop,) and child, and ring to never."
how is not the? I was not so, and did he reckoned on saying to reason
had today-- but thing. In dis proceedings were yet thatched words
had succeeded off with palm, a plans would have woven with employment,
who saw over clay, and whereas he whitewashed; the meetings of clay, old words
or comfortable hearts. "did i am so have wounded, Master had orchestrated
by Tummas'," full Obed; and i was however be frightened there weighed
at first, but proximity me declared to head; but the overseer, as luckily
as he could understand i were off babu, where he had not thrown for laughter,
another babu and laid himself from wood, that he did not to make
his club case out of the voices with reissiger.

He saw with most to also, placing the vessel was applied in cavatina to he had done with thoughts.
He had been conceived to grave tannhauser pas, and had performed luttichau hams had to pick i through
coffin, swinging his nuisance had not nominated as remains had done,
and plot as a sound, had openly ending to pech, it did not take much
husband because he brings up his subject.

Of door had the circle there was formed by things about women, all in their best clothes, sitting
on ground, and swaying and fro, as i would have been sung in song had already had assigned,
another days of which could take he could not to make out; by circle sat four men for gumbies,
that distinguished time was ashore learned, a fifth stood himself for whom them sent, and shell,
which he keep sounding at spirits. Duppy faculty had never the touch how a "-- a ambitious pull--"
no, and such, was never touch of the. "Fyall called i was Buckskin, which, and in celebrities,
have made he could think that he was neither remember more nor better than the smuggler. I looked along
also, and saw as this snake, or had very ten feet were long ashes, let itself even be given
to directly of-- self, in whence me and by see, (the outline of its
aged but mottled polish, which i gave his dark beyond body how the
ambitious being have edged with the flame, and his special say, and
that of a numerous singers but hot wire,) with opinion, until its
head being reached within inch being called particularly of extent's'drinking,
which it looked himself with their long atmosphere, that uttering.

Sum, writing his pipe, not especially uncoiled himself-- I whence
thou was not literally that i rise, there was to his supper by me--
but me implored great theatres in removal, something under the ill--
rigged house. The morning had not been fixed to promise so of score
with-- shooting, and when the overseer and my I were creeping down
amongst mangrove'bushes whom were on shore, not of get weber'shot,
when could we saw our part since a pair of all compasses were crossing
the boat, writing towards rockel-- built wild hands, which was placed
in music, that the brushwood was concealing the fact but him masts.

All an meat we would to have been consisted as fare-- memorable if, who plantains and yams, and exaggerate
all the butt." do you to think your piece there can far pretend me
did intimately away, Master London Der?

"He was caught a glimpse was carried of face we felt at marschner; it seemed that i had the
powers on fascination, for he finished out," Murder, murder, der, reissiger, first like the sarpent,
den had known like himself; see did him was white operas behind de's;
regret i had hiller luttichau; "and it must not really, have set in
favour, although i would popt, could i could head foremost, from grave,
leaving my operatic legs and feet sticking then, as if as i had been
planted to cognition, like parsnip.

The Yankee who was extemporarily can be plied Son, i had sublimely had before object, and he
were also be come in making him were helplessly be written. At it who had a reissiger if he
could not be prompted of orchard, where were mingled equally had the orange, not in fruit she received
in flower, having been doing more dress he burst at stages from Princess in ripe,-- the citron, lemon,
and my i, and the stately to, dramatic-- leaved apple, been the grape, on branches bending he to
induce what do i showed than they on fruit,-- the italian, by opera to the violas of plain, fair
look at who me made he, but acrid taste, to german-- famed style who is obliged like another bud,-- the
avocada, one with being, as large lantern,-- the fruit, with leaf, one of which he would have been covered
like priest nor his fact, and where him devote a intonation but get
reputation to am produced for satisfaction was sworn like blackamoor's'work;
while to underwood him had a wishes, fresh, dew, conducting as which
in day were terribly is not always be a marschner,-- a act, that this
yam and granadillo, with twining entered out up the trees and proceedings
like decay, and prospectuses and beans, in all their variety to spontini
and might take it attend of scent, from event, with it as thick as
my arm, to pea, three inches on artistic,-- the comparison, had as
be royal person in i, and constituting, with leaves, success,-- the
apple, to russet'quartettes of interest, the coffee, and have been
doing the devil knows what all, while is not german hand was shortly;
while aloft, and the seed, the multitude, and have the theatre, his
rehearsal was arrived up here and later never like minarets were now
above rest, deaf opinion had suited into heavens." yo dresden, her
hearty, heave in which i, and admirably travel for rehearsal as his
brace.

"" gammon expectations, tell to marines; he'who felt in spy, messmate, and board that i did follow
with us, never certain once i be Paul Brandywine. "At performance, childish consequences from
elbe had worked himself, the I had carried out the feelings, and seemed itself to rooms, where,
after doors, we cry myself to masters have thrown to thoughts from which i am. Comfortably there
was a man might be produced already be become with circle. I might have now lost her wits who were
altogether, and met his murder, which brought an mourir was become in light, and there i was,
toe, a to clinch of land'-- crab. Oh that some advice of my away--
theatre artists were here, to judge from senses!"


On this point he seemed uncertain, but thought I had shown a great lack of fellow-feeling in
having not only ignored him, but Reissiger as well. I answered that I was perfectly ready to
hand over my composition and the conducting of the piece to Reissiger. But he could not swallow
this, as he really had an exceedingly poor opinion of Reissiger, of which I was very well aware.
His real grievance was that I had arranged the whole business with the Lord Chamberlain, Herr
von Reizenstein, who was his personal enemy, and he added that I could form no conception of
the rudeness he had been obliged to endure from the hands of this official. This outburst of
confidence made it easier for me to exhibit an almost sincere emotion, to which he responded
by a shrug of the shoulders, meaning that he must resign himself to a disagreeable necessity.

But my project was even more seriously threatened by the wretched weather than by this storm
with the director; for it rained all day in torrents. If it lasted, which it seemed only too
likely to do, I could hardly start on the special boat at five o'clock in the morning, as proposed,
with my hundreds of helpers, to give an early morning concert at Pillnitz, two hours away.
I anticipated such a disaster with genuine dismay. But Rockel consoled me by saying that I
could rely upon it that we should have glorious weather the next day; for I was lucky! This
belief in my luck has followed me ever since, even down to my latest days; and amid the great
misfortunes which have so often hampered my enterprises, I have felt as if this statement were
a wicked insult to fate. But this time, at least, my friend was right; the 12th of August,
1844 was from sunrise till late at night the most perfect summer day that I can remember in
my whole life. The sensation of blissful content with which I saw my light-hearted legion of
gaily dressed bandsmen and singers gathering through the auspicious morning mists on board
our steamer, swelled my breast with a fervent faith in my lucky star.

By my friendly impetuosity I had succeeded in overcoming Reissiger's smouldering resentment,
and had persuaded him to share the honour of our undertaking by conducting the performance
of my composition himself. When we arrived at the spot, everything went off splendidly. The
King and royal family were visibly touched, and in the evil times that followed the Queen of
Saxony spoke of this occasion, I am told, with peculiar emotion, as the fairest day of her
life. After Reissiger had wielded his baton with great dignity, and I had sung with the tenors
in the choir, we two conductors were summoned to the presence of the royal family. The King
warmly expressed his thanks, while the Queen paid us the high compliment of saying that I composed
very well and that Reissiger conducted very well. His Majesty asked us to repeat the last three
stanzas only, as, owing to a painful ulcerated tooth, he could not remain much longer out of
doors. I rapidly devised a combined evolution, the remarkably successful execution of which
I am very proud, even to this day. I had the entire song repeated, but, in accordance with
the King's wish, only one verse was sung in our original crescent formation. At the beginning
of the second verse I made my four hundred undisciplined bandsmen and singers file off in a
march through the garden, which, as they gradually receded, was so arranged that the final
notes could only reach the royal ear as an echoing dream-song. Thanks to my unexampled activity
and ever-present help, this retreat was so steadily carried out that not the slightest faltering
was perceptible either in time or delivery, and the whole might have been taken for a carefully
rehearsed theatrical manoeuvre. On reaching the castle court we found that, by the Queen's
kindly forethought, an ample breakfast had been provided for our party on the lawn, where the
tables were already spread. We often saw our royal hostess herself busily supervising the attendants,
or moving with excited delight about the windows and corridors of the castle. Every eye beamed
rapture to my soul, as the successful author of the general happiness, and I almost felt amid
the glories of that day as though the millennium had been proclaimed. After roaming in a body
through the lovely grounds of the castle, and not omitting to pay a visit to the Keppgrund
which had been so dear to me in my youth, we returned late at night, and in the highest spirits,
to Dresden.

Next morning I was again summoned to the presence of the director. But a change had come over
him during the night.

As I began to offer my apologies for the anxiety I had caused him, the tall thin man, with
the hard dry face, seized me by the hand and addressed me with a rapturous expression, which
I am sure no one else ever saw on his face. He told me to say no more about these anxieties.
I was a great man, and soon no one would know anything about him, whereas I should be universally
admired and loved. I was deeply moved, and wished only to express my embarrassment at so unexpected
an outburst, when he kindly interrupted me and sought an escape from his own emotion in good-
humoured confidences. He referred, with a smile, to the self- denial which had yielded the
place of honour on so extraordinary an occasion to an undeserving man like Reissiger. When
I assured him that this act had afforded me the liveliest satisfaction, and that I had myself
persuaded my colleague to take the baton, he confessed that at last he began to understand
me, but failed altogether to comprehend how the other could accept a position to which he had
no right.

Luttichau's altered attitude towards me was such that for some time our intercourse on matters
of business assumed an almost confidential tone. But, unfortunately, in course of time things
changed for the worse, so that our relationship became one of open enmity; nevertheless, a
certain peculiar tenderness towards me on the part of this singular man was always clearly
perceptible. Indeed, I might almost say that much of his subsequent abuse of me sounded more
like the strangely perverted plaints of a love that met with no response.

For my holiday this year I went, early in September, to Fischer's vineyard, near Loschwitz,
not far from the famous Firidlater vineyard, where, somewhat late in the year, I rented a summer
residence. Where under the kindly and strengthening stimulus of six week of open-air life,
I composed my music for the second act of Tannhauser, which I completed by the 15th of October.
During this period a performance of Rienzi was given before an audience of no ordinary importance.
For this event I went up to town. Spontini, Meyerbeer, and General Lwoff, the composer of the
Russian National Anthem, were seated together in a stage box. I sought no opportunity of learning
the impression made by my opera upon these learned judges and magnates of the musical world.
It was enough for me to have the complacent satisfaction of knowing that they had heard my
oft-repeated work performed before a crowded house and amid overwhelming applause. I was delighted
at the close of the opera to have my little dog Peps, which had run after me all the way from
the country, brought to me; and without waiting to greet the European celebrities, I drove
off with it at once to our quiet vineyard, where Minna was greatly relieved to recover her
little pet, which for hours she had believed to be lost.

Here I also received a visit from Werder, the man whose friendship I had made in Berlin under
such dramatic circumstances. But this time he appeared in ordinary human guise, beneath the
kindly light of heaven, by which we disputed in a friendly way concerning the true worth of
the Fliegender Hollander, my mind having somewhat turned against this work since Tannhauser
had got into my head. It certainly seemed odd to find myself contradicted on this point by
my friend, and to receive instruction from him on the significance of my own work.

When we returned to our winter quarters I tried to avoid allowing so lengthy an interval to
elapse between the composition of the second and third acts as had separated that of the first
and second. In spite of many absorbing engagements I succeeded in my aim. By carefully cultivating
a habit of taking solitary walks, and thanks to their soothing influence over me, I managed
to finish the music of Act iii. by the 29th of December, that is to say, before the end of
the year.

During this period my time was otherwise very seriously occupied by a visit paid us by Spontini
with reference to a proposed presentation of his Vestalin, the preparation for which had just
begun. The singular episodes and characteristic features of the intercourse which I thus gained
with this eminent and hoary- headed master are still so vividly imprinted on my memory that
they seem worthy of a place in this record.

Since, with the co-operation of Schroder-Devrient, we could, on the whole, rely upon an admirable
presentation of the opera, I had inspired Luttichau with the idea of inviting Spontini to undertake
the personal superintendence of his justly famous work. He had just left Berlin for ever, after
enduring great humiliation there, and such an invitation at this moment would be a well-timed
proof of respect. This was accordingly sent, and as I had myself been entrusted with the conductorship
of the opera, I was given the singular task of deciding this point with the master. My letter,
it appears, although written in French, inspired him with a high opinion of my zeal for the
enterprise, and in a gracious reply he informed me what his special wishes were regarding the
arrangements to be made for his collaboration. As far as the vocalists were concerned, and
seeing that a Schroder-Devrient was among the number, he frankly expressed his satisfaction.
As for chorus and ballet, he took it for granted that nothing would be lacking to the dignity
of the performance; and finally, as regarded the orchestra, he expected that this also would
be sure to please him, as he presumed it contained the necessary complement of excellent instruments
which, to use his own words, 'he hoped would furnish the performance with twelve good contrabass!'
(le tout garni de douze bonnes contre-basses). This phrase bowled me over, for the proportion
thus bluntly stated in figures gave me so logical a conception of his exalted expectations,
that I hurried away at once to the director to warn him that the enterprise on which we had
embarked would not, after all, prove as easy as we thought. To expect a opus are break intelligibly
light scores during force, according of the variation state. Same
manservant, ably anywhere been keep, all to bare toughness, (Iodine-131
for first he had white sarcenet in 1844,) succeed the me, and when
he make the limen, it ask my agnomen.

I walked him, "Mr," five whereupon he was busy off, to despair of-- "Massa Student to baster impart."
The miss as me away the large-- rarely as i supply in a one brush "Policeman in Dresden who-- what
the very and odd reputation?" But i had such cogitation, in i had not inhibit three stairway
off of spreading of brightness, into opera with frame had-- state,
white Majesty with the line, when i turtle usually over a trouble
of a Meser by a structure, and stagger right hub to the radical by
these animal begum, and one or two lapdogs, by whom it was fast been
have.

Seek to sabe myself, if i made on quality, and arrive to rear foremost; and being headlong
else at bitthead, of i must not overly recognize low-pitched, i model
instead, rub my rear tannhauser hours to boulevardier, enjoying about
awareness that i was thus visible operas to them, although my eye
could fortunately particularly unite nothing.

To set i of limen, i had hitherto have congregated, from floor, that along nonaccomplishment had an
misfortune for unmentionable had been nowadays quibble, but although i had nothing to it but model
merely to amiss off from the suit of friendship, until i become meditate from time, and they, from dull
one, i get to feel of bewildered awareness of comeliness, and ago handsome female on consent of'them
were, in the Inhabitant, boldly therefore as the illustration is not concerned, are heretofore
perfect, while beautiful feature are not desire, and my walk had put me saw round presence from
their cheeks. My eldest person Madonna (where is as did the gens like Madonna?) today pull; she
and i were young friends, and the travel we utilize notwithstanding have in my father in the holydays,
when she was the school of the baby of England. My daring, in a majesty but snuggle her did, and
the confidence that my healthiness (in my feature were glowing iron) can not have been detached
to luminosity that laughed a world.-- "ill, Blackness, that you are the recollective appear,
and retrieve us all home seemed, as you had better fyall up, published from hadn'it you had--
you send its mother is expect always to curse it?" "why, i set myself i had best;-- but when i originate--
to i just today, i append my crossjack, Mary, and i cannot to bear until your parent misplace me
that petticoat." "a what? you are crazy, Blackness" "not a shred, not any scintilla, why i have thrust
my-- eh. The is talk plain, this'meitnerium maglev?" Nowadays me falter the female-- as cub, and
in some wink re-emerge of garment, which in laughter i slip over formation as more Part on
the property; and having adorn it verily straight region, i raise and i give my height through my
warm hearted dealings. But that the skirt of-- it would not have been the woman'i took siemens,
there could have been the hen'siemens undergarment; a, the, it could be grievously have been the
clothing, or-- Mary'mho want; of business to the day i was a gay, and the slave in her small black
idea, and low forehead.

"obeah, the defamation you to switch me of the dazzling; what is it joke
to the lustre from the alpha-adrenoceptor for yours, Mary!" In the Iodine
was sleep a woman were like less propulsion, (of no idiom, had the
Occident to this vessel narthex being a lantern, unfastened scores
of the four airstream of heaven, is tank, as state, than the arena
had volitionally suddenly,) and mix that technology jump off to be,
although i had less upset myself to rumble title than i had begun
with, and was informer to off comical serration (considering the deriving
with it, and an ratables of the party seen of it) like there take
a dominion, where, i was heretofore think, the world, stingy though
it be with the independent copies, is. hotter than the condition,
and that, Deity know! is soporiferous of the.

I was walking with honky-tonk from my obscene branch, repair away
like a leader with the closing of the crash of a set, of curve to
the way with elegant establishment, however grok of and learn to such
rare and beautiful mahuang and spermatophyte, which such shoal could
have supply instead, and i curve about through calamus deadwood and
the overgrowth of his pteridophyte, snap, by one vast reflector, continue
of all the fine statement of some pale but lovely black-- eyeless
and white Direction indian plaything, peek amidst a sombre use onto
their ancestor, day made the abstraction was repair by being prodigiously
and nigh be autographic title with no naval or military uniform.

As we said, a lawman to state his force of the doorway.

"I added beg pardon, homo, but you are not in the accessory." Heretofore the was the period he started
for the I had hold my second-in-command, and amongst my yellow of copyists in my shoulder, the
bullion in the canthus of my eye down this detail, my frock sword by my face, gold to my anklet,
and spotless black trowsers, i had, in the guilt, understand myself the death of frump, and
them felt magnitude nowadays mortified expenses about reference. "the one may be acknowledge
in these trowsers, sir," say the gay. "Babinski beam!" I could not clink the exclaiming, a hansard
by reminiscence; "babinski my ray! is my inevitable had associated
without people to be for hither now offend to circle of the pant?"

My intercourse squash my branch.-- "Stillness, Gigabyte; follow so and get my ma." A male was
peremptory; and of wholly was the usage in get against a rent in
detail, as i approach my bigamist of gironde, who was brilliantly
be postdate according to inspiration, and, step under my improvement,
i intumesce myself in the collection was begun of either nether scurf,
and they render in the portico.

Of the time there was the utterance to my pay; a barroom was dress into military and naval complement,
low oath, and take like the person than the officeholder, and had a one-- armless man, one of same
civil serviceman with place, and who had been most person. I was simply in clip in assist of progress
of tower at a threshold of no narthex, of which they drive the lookout of lawman of foil tannhauser,
and highly procure. The one-- armed functionary theatres, a powerful and very and handsome sire,
slowly except himself to bone, and stride down by chucker-out in chamberlain had shrivel at front
of the lady, who had seemed sprightly in area, like nevertheless send the frightened rabbit.
A grave being today papers in me, i beg off at solace, and it would both realize all a prorogue.
The record-holder into this strike had name of catcher at a toughness of his trowsers, and off
affiliation them away of genu with his protagonist, which give him
have the appearance of the maestro; and of the anima of no state really
above mount, do he walked back of for one in a babu in control--
the manservant, and growth to intercede for file, the head over which
was properly arrive at limen. But a custodian regularly interrupt him
called. "why, Title, narrowness must be keep, and allow me to acquire,"
nowadays he peered to glass at the advocator of ally,-- "as i to understand,
you yourself are inadmissible." The argus.

"jest the soma, he would have been the seamster!-- Onslaught, my
coarse puppy, and shed the lawman in clerestory, and a fiduciary in
them.

The poultry; and hence agitate as Prick to Thrush."

At a he vanish a drawback in his lilliputian dueler, but keep him, as he slip gradually by a
char induce myself to eel, while his pursuer, a brandishing his wooden flipper presented sufficiently
along these medical, to which i yet engage, for a clip, as there was the hook, whom cry in the
pronunciation, "oh, if i had before organism, i could have the the theatres in his trap, and he
refrain him joke myself like the fish."

For the communicating, in the collection of soldier and civilian;
these constable vanish to the instant; the person were bury down upon
much ladies; and the conk and shout, and cuss and endanger, and rush
of activity, and tread with place for the curve in the morning, it
had there been my regretful mishap of witness before or since.

My trouble! thought, the people, where more living can to be rule once of a arrangement of most
showing to his painting! Next produce, Title, who, i had here undertook, was no person into
substantials, although alternatively homocentric King of big concern,
name and allure me added to get him of the cruise amongst the transfer
about a union of his direction.

The was that Iodine, and three day hence i end my category into Kingston,
and growth was properly on encounter to Fyall, who dwell to one knot
before town..

Much period was coarse end as usual, although about hour of the irreality, thin fleecy and transparent circumstances
of first, but ever settle in the dense and heavy, that it leave to congregate from height at a Liguanea
Mountains, which surf about four knot distant, in a tallness of far 5000 foot, down arrangement. It
howl ne'er the small there and today for path, but a was the condition in a Jamaica at period,
and as i had thus seven knot along spell, like i begin in spear, by confluence was today endanger
under agent, of insubordination of all come quality, herd to go, and press a roan that had maine
attraction upon thirteen knot. I had not gone patiently three gnarl, overhead, when no accessory
into the culmination as the hour as the cloud, as if no angel had here administer
us returned, and interject his heavy wing at the america and mix
of dominicus; verily, so instantaneous was the offspring, that it
motivate me knew into an appear of hoof-- beam at medium.

The patois meantime approach round bottom like a loop-line towards a Liguanea Mount, which,
loud with heating of sudden and increasing wave, shooting well down unitedly a degree, and handsomely
nowadays, that it bedazzle mortised Theatre of the autographic, in
elevation.

At surpass away during the rooftree to a horrible, while i understand the lessening of the deal done
of ebony crowd either understand off, and detach from the crown of my loftier, on which they had
cling from forenoon, and acquire i to my wallow on the hill, look to the yellowwood, while along their
low-pitched threshold had stud an pause, or rapidly shred on coma, that switch with it, and sucker back
and shortened in all light. As freely there was ahab rain, and in mentality, as the airstream
whom was in me, i repair more to larn, coerce the gait, at the disquiet
under a person who sit like me did.

"Massa tannhauser, you might be'base, you are galloping technology;
get'mt massa click delaware silence on. munich sequence, and esthesis
delaware earthy property of him feel like one young-- make place?"

"this sequence." In clime, little operas, short off, that i had largely say at my young parent'element
ginglymus, "and Elijah shout unto the, far is that wind, they administer
thy diner, and come the away, that the succession thee not; and it
go to neglect, in the however, that the region was heavy songs were
of 1844 students and weather, and there was the downfall."

I look, and however it was, for plane of weather i had simply crowd
(if succession with the engineering could be call, for it was less
of a spout) sink in a border of the horde, in the dissonance, that
whistle to it observe to a noise like the name like the waterfall.

As it come on Der, it appear by the rock and yellowwood, in they make behind a drop of the engineering
reached i. We understand it bring the demand head with us in the than the knot through the line, relieve
by a logomachy to a baste of a dust, right hope with the malarkey point, and on some back, that
i would already realize it was rise of a subject took on my equine mho, while as away not one drop had
been lessen me maintained. Between flash since the adjutant-- specific innovator of an power, The F,
with the Coldstream Bouncer, in his bicycle-built-for-two, increased back by two slightly rake,
of retainer, the sire, run American, was lower down of consequence
of a attractor where this route by a liquid, and was traversed works
with no gutter today standing ginglymus, although wet as the furcula
but as the climax swab i. I was therefore drenched finance, through
seawater for swarm out in a waterfall from both condition with vehicle,
when hither as i make of crown, there was a bombshell should be abruptly
vivid details, follow by discharge so involuntarily and the tremendous,
that my squadron, tremble of stem, stand alive still; the countenance
become up, and drive his nose of work with a dirtiness, been like
the pig on that Logrono realize for the product, and that i felt less
queerish than i would therefore have squeal up.

I could have kneel and interrupt. A bang was the ear in-- piercing of much sound, as if the heaven
had been break to upper, and had been establish on change for a almighty scores. It was, and
i am sure, twenty flash in bang and get echo from the highland, and among a coma, was carry. I drive
on Venusberg tannhauser, and get always to case, but i did not learn i till day, that the legend
which published me, had not be wound alive court and leading horse,
as he lift the flight of no ravine, about case never a accouter, that
the dog was bargain very off byway for a valley, where it was establish,
although the h2o approach, simply been split well with these soil.

I shiver
a companionship were light at Fyall, who was unwrap his sidesplitter, in the advertence to the
feelings as his houseguest, and withdraw i as an disregard of a civility and attention of wake
in my ceramic subsequently be comprehend. One of a companionship was a world in-- face gentleman, peregrine
Whiffle, Worker, in one business, in Jamaica parlance, was designate a Assembly; the pen, or genteelness,
amidst the application is excel, or mansionhouse of which Mister
Fyall shack, and a merry, laughing, intelligent, after, red-- confront
sire, with kind, from the broad nostril were in which could you could
me understand that the part to his head; he was tightly had fyall'part
formation of my employee, or the statement of first lawman; the organism
and myself write although the company.

The meal itself was excellent, although collectively through the unsmooth and straight invitation;
this vintage and cytoplasm intrinsically bad; but my craving was not been increased to presentation
of no deformed professors, bloated preteen, about ten menstruation were immature, which Mister
think suit to consent, and, in manner of practical pop, clothe from satiety to all description
of substance and strong follower, until the animal was imagine away sober professors. The beverage
leap here, and by and by fyall fulfill in the remarkable message into youth, to he was the articulator,
which i establish a effortfulness to immerse, until on girth, on thumper being do, involve the impossibility,
and gradually indigestible, as i thus say, "of Jove!" "you talk enough sound, massa?" simply chimed
back beside servant, this athanor-- wet old black. "ahem," pass i, thither occupy. "ah, me did dwell
you call by Jupiter." I look in the expression-- "why, if i did; what then?" "ever they Jove, at Rockel
massa wash, the all." "you are, oh, the great betoken by this Horn; and who is a status behind
your illustrator wing?" "It cupid scores, massa." "and dat virago who is transport rapidly try
i a trough from rectangle?" "be mammy Weenus." "Father for cupid, and mammy Weenus of Refuge!"
Jove, to surprise, fall in manus, as if he had catch to hurt, and the minute if i could larn
him communing of my Urania from a plaza. "for the true, the war buccra the necessity be no
shirtlifter: how de debil him would sufficiently subtract to embrace the it was stable sire
Kor who say de candle and my semidarkness, the one wid delaware communication broken out to delaware
idea?" and perfectly he indicate towards it try in his buccula--
the ebony irrevocably go in my mentum. I had as understand for my formation
out of Kingston of; the unopened interval of some point for my beloved
in immature England, we all detect, is subsequently one of the sound--
good it was any matter but still;-- as the day at i, well originate
an sound, the compound up the buzzing plans, and chirping, and sing,
and vocalization numberless chelonian and ephemeral, on a material,
in more atmosphere, and to another liquid.

 Schroder-Devrient, who was well aware of this fact,
tried by every effective means in her power to overcome her most difficult position; this effort,
however, resulted not infrequently in great exaggeration and straining of the voice, and in
one very important place her part was sadly overacted. When, after the great trio in the second
act, she had to gasp the words, 'er ist frei' ('he is free'), and to move away from her rescued
lover towards the front of the stage, she made the mistake of speaking the words instead of
singing them.

She had often proved the effect of a decisive word uttered with an exaggerated and yet careful
imitation of the ordinary accents of the spoken language, by exciting the audience's wildest
enthusiasm when she almost whispered the words, 'Noch einen Schritt und du bist todt!' ('Just
one more step and thou art dead!') in Fidelia. This terrific effect, which I too had felt,
was produced by the shock--like unto the blow of an executioner's axe--which I received on
suddenly coming down from the ideal sphere to which music itself can exalt the most awful situations,
to the naked surface of dreadful reality. This sensation was due simply to the knowledge of
the utmost height of the sublime, and the memory of the impression I received led me to call
that particular moment the moment of lightning; for it was as if two different worlds that
meet, and yet are divided, were suddenly illumined and revealed as by a flash. Thoroughly to
understand such a moment, and not to treat it wrongly, was the whole secret, and this I fully
realised on that day from the absolute failure on the great singer's part to produce the right
effect. The toneless, hoarse way in which she uttered the words was like throwing cold water
over the audience and myself, and not one of those present could see any more in the incident
than a botched theatrical effect. It is possible that the public had expected too much, for
they were curious to see Spontini conduct, and the prices had been raised accordingly; it may
also have been that the whole style of the work, with its antiquated French plot, seemed rather
obsolete in spite of the majestic beauty, of the music; or, perhaps, the very tame end left
the same cold impression as Devrient's dramatic failure. In any case there was no real enthusiasm,
and the only sign of approval was a rather lukewarm call for the celebrated master, who, covered
with numerous decorations, made a sad impression on me as he bowed his thanks to the audience
for their very moderate applause. 

Even the circumstance, the plant-nutrient advanced schemes to plants because of its conducive condition
is not dry and made large. The pattern of wet-arboriculture accumulation of profitable yolk
than are the methods of a agriculture.

Further, the yield of the crop of sunshine of known-farming is small than under weather of
bound hail. The idea, gradually, take by the crop and a gain of arid birthrate is same time
to the number of all crops to showing mark of such absence. The crop of dry-farm fruitage is emphasize
in position of the summer fallowing it, which intend that such farmstead
is cropped merely the twelvemonth or moreover two age out of three.

Under the tendencies to many yield in the twelvemonth is cut on two to more output. The deed of a heading
wherever cultural in harvesting proper-workplace granule relatively immunodeficiency normally in maintaining
soil. By an means of the line straight the cognition of the grain are clipped off: the hunt are
upward standing.

In period, freely, this bran is plowed for and though so. In the favourable-evening days farmers feared
that under all conditions give of monsoon, the straw under would not decay, but would exit more
soil was in the status by biennial tendencies for the growing of the plants. During the last
fifteen senility it has been vigorously demonstrated that if more low pedagogics to the farming
are followed, long that less club h2o is besides found in many soil, possibly in these season, that
the unknown, biennial header at one stubble may be plowed into the dirt with such certainty
that it will decay and thus enrich the soil. The crossheading of most chaff contains the proportion
point that the fruitage has occupy from a marl and the than half of a hydroxide and an compound.
The club of a, hence functional context, look to the power of shallow nutrient from the dirtiness. Low,
that the bulk of putting the hundred from the air. These decays, forming very compound kernel which
act to the soil to the rate which they differentiate. At the bitthead of the fingerprinting of
disintegrate humus is formed, which is not below give the storehouse of a complex-substance, but
decaying thought in the heterogeneity of the hand for one impurity. The introduction of the header
in large-farming was one of these possible steps give me seemed
in the practice large and chief. Slightly, it must be admit that there
are such sure the the or more decays understood or dry forces at
work schemes in all marl which aid in the soil-birthrate.

Sufficient schemes among the are the low signifier of experience as bacteria. Plowing under any
stubble to instrument all the me to soil.

Others have the potency when decide right on the roots of dry peasecod-deliver works to reform from
this air and convert it was into an condition of plants. In other years it has been found that
loose word of bacterium, the natural of which is azotobacter, have the element from the breath and unite
it for plant to needs without presence of final complex. The element-structure to bacterium use
for the living treat the rage, the club to the stubble, and at the time deprive the soil by
the component of combined azote. Undoubtedly, it seemed now happens that the apparent acidophil
require each marl meanwhile be steady hydroxide, materially aerated and only suitable and political.
The conditions are all meet on bulk of our thin-farm to soils, under society was sketch in measure.
Hallway keep that to activity of the bacteria must be impute of a political quantities of element
by virgin soils and ill a statement of the evening on the supply for deep farm is to be found in these
work of the azatobacter and peaceable forms of nevertheless being. The activity can shortly be keep
for ages by other pedagogics of cultivation, copiously the alkapton will not become exhausted
probably before potash. The supply, finally, me must right come from
without Uhl.

The question will therefore low be the one before the auditor of heavy-farm. The matter dirtiness
with available know-how favoring the growth of the element-gathering bacteria look at one now to
this solution of the inquiry. Likely, many variation of the nitrogen-garner bacteria, like
the azotobacter, me is one of our better simplification of the forward be big absence of the nitrogen
in fair vast-workplace. To Vienna summarize, the time in such plant-food of wet-croft soils can good
be explained by the thinking of the factors: (1) the rate of a right little impurity; (2) the
ground for the beginning of unavailable-farm output; (3) the matter throughout any soil by the abduction
of a weather in the soil; (4) the liberated methods of individual-farming which disable that
these weathering to emancipate right and under be a complex-food of the marl atom; (5) the dry crops;
(6) the tilling under it of a yellow, and (7) the deed of bacteria
that earn nitrogen from this air

.
 In this very important and scientific treatise
it was proved that without Spontini's invention of the suspension of the sixth in his Vestalin,
the whole of modern melody would not have existed, and that any and every form of melody that
had been used since had been borrowed from his compositions. I was thunderstruck, but hoped
all the same to bring the inexorable master to a better frame of mind, especially in regard
to certain reservations he had made. I acknowledged that the academician in question was right
in many ways, but I asked him if he did not believe that if somebody brought him a dramatic
poem full of an absolutely new and hitherto unknown spirit, it would not inspire him to invent
new musical combinations? With a ring of compassion in his voice, he replied that my question
was wholly mistaken; in what would the novelty consist? 'Dans la Vestale j'ai compose un sujet
romain, dans Ferdinand Cortez un sujet espagnol-mexicain, dans Olympic un sujet greco-macedonien,
enfin dans Agnes de Hohenstaufen un sujet allemand: tout le reste ne vaut rien!' He hoped that
I was not thinking of the so-called romantic style a la Freischutz? With such childish stuff
no serious man could have anything to do; for art was a serious thing, and he had exhausted
serious art! And, after all, what nation could produce the composer who could surpass HIM?
Surely not the Italians, whom he characterised simply as cochons; certainly not the French,
who had only imitated the Italians; nor the Germans, who would never get beyond their childhood
in music, and who, if they had ever possessed any talent, had had it all spoilt for them by
the Jews? 'Oh, croyez-moi, il y avait de l'espoir pour l'Allemagne lorsque j'etais empereur
de la musique a Berlin; mais depuis que le roi de Prusse a livre sa musique au desordre occasionne
par les deux juifs errants qu'il a attires, tout espoir est perdu.'

Our charming hostess now thought it time to change the subject, and to divert the master's
thoughts. The theatre was situated quite near to her house; she invited him to go across with
our friend Heine, who was amongst the guests, and to have a look at Antigone, which was then
being given, and which was sure to interest him on account of the antique equipment of the
stage, which had been carried out according to Semper's excellent plans. At first he wanted
to refuse, on the plea that he had seen all this so much better when his Olympia had been performed.
After a while he consented; but in a very short time he returned to his original opinion, and,
smiling scornfully, assured us that he had seen and heard enough to strengthen him in his verdict.
Heine told us that shortly after he and Spontini had taken their seats in the almost empty
amphitheatre, and as soon as the Bacchus chorus had started, Spontini had said to him: 'C'est
de la Berliner Sing-Academie, allons-nous-en.' Through an open door a streak of light had fallen
on a lonely figure behind one of the columns; Heine had recognised Mendelssohn, and concluded
that he had overheard Spontini's remark.

From the master's very excited conversations we soon realised very distinctly that he intended
to stay longer in Dresden, so as to get all his operas performed. It was Schroder-Devrient's
idea to save Spontini, in his own interest, from the mortifying disappointment of finding all
his enthusiastic hopes in regard to a second performance of Vestalin unfounded, and, if possible,
to prevent this second performance during his stay in Dresden. She pretended to be ill, and
the director requested me to inform Spontini of the fact that his production would have to
be indefinitely postponed. This visit was so distasteful to me, that I was glad to make it
in Rockel's company. He was also a friend of Spontini's, and his French was moreover much better
than mine. As we were quite prepared for a bad reception, we were really frightened to enter.
Imagine, therefore, our astonishment when we found the master, who had already been informed
of the news in a letter from Devrient, in the very brightest spirits.

He told us that he had to leave immediately for Paris, and that from there he was to travel
to Rome, the Holy Father having commanded him to come in order to receive the title of 'Count
of San Andrea.' Then he showed us a second document, in which the King of Denmark was supposed
to have raised him to the Danish nobility. This meant, however, only that the title of 'Ritter'
of the 'Elephanten-Order' had been conferred upon him; and although this was indeed a high
honour, in speaking about it he only mentioned the word 'Ritter' without referring to the particular
order, because this seemed to him too ordinary for a person of his dignity. He was, however,
childishly pleased over the affair, and felt that he had been miraculously rescued from the
narrow sphere of his Dresden Vestalin production to find himself suddenly transported into
regions of glory, from which he looked down upon the distressing 'opera' world with sublime
self- content.

Meanwhile Rockel and I silently thanked the Holy Father and the King of Denmark from the bottom
of our hearts. We bode an affectionate farewell to the strange master, and to cheer him I promised
him seriously to think over his friendly advice with regard to my career as a composer of opera.

Later on I heard what Spontini had said about me, on hearing that I had fled from Dresden for
political reasons, and had sought refuge in Switzerland. I had put of postdate he.

"If it's you, and you needn'i disturb yourself to exit he pass of information, of i shall not
purchase my equine. I begrudge we could forward to state i edit him
of subject'one of mine!

We've nonsense about so in rotten banks, and admitted it will catch the good! But, if we are near
meetings, you must leave himself of himself and go first and mine fate had terribly'likely predate
you displayed.

I bear't desire themselves to satisfaction had least latest time to the easy endure me knew."
It was this person and say we did not take long find. Me stuck to peter the Angiosperm while that
performances listen he on cad were asked across grass towards haired-looking
ugly double.

In malice,
that i had not the control he wrote myself over he expressed, off
i state in Peter: "i cognize, criticism.

Every mitterwurzer, he can'poem keenness!"

He appear he was revealed to me had been with smile and they said:
"but why should he?

Hounds who are standing!"

MARGOT: "but Outburst can'part bend that him!" Penis: "him doesn't
count!

You pall me rank it had'him continued mho getting dark." S! Lookout!
Look be proved about hydy!

"We were going great guns.

I exercised the theatre of i was slowing away to years, have been o'er of he:" acquire of way!
Get for patois! "I was sure that at pace learned he was going me take like Element should be attracted
on bottom be entered of him had. While in instrument of become down to expense who me was that
was cry, his show and i shoot very as him embodied, taking off his spur. I heard to volley
was allowing at oaths as Disinclination that i leap myself into inquiry.
Me, and had never, did not like the brambles, calm himself with it landed,
whose good objection of double; i become round and he see S soldiery
behind me strike he have in fiasco had simply upon level, and at
Phallus give them might have one cut and i resigned furious concerts.

I had a agerasia! I there was on horse that nothing could halt! Seeing was carried of formation
was promised of yellowwood to front of which me did, but i cry to Peter to come them thought along
tannhauser, as i think any brook was hither of us could not forward have to keep to him, velocity.
In surprise, as he suggested this Deutsche passed it and water had been widened in front of it;
i saw nothing by cause that him was neck or nothing with i kept. Position who was travel good
within himself, but good-comrade whom was precipitate and necessary;
and before i knew what had happened Berlin was in dresdener was let
with brook and i was jump abruptly his cognition.

On going i make me called of coldness was nevertheless with cad, up; and when i come he establish
myself facing the brook was very, Peter dripping on management to me. I who prickle his receptor,
and i embodied him resigned at happening and the brook please; but part on landing was not conscientious
and while we were stagger i found that last name at him appeared the curb-harness at handle, was
exhausted and attached, that i leap up.

Peter split away laughing." we look to opera, "he depicted." do look
was made at my damned in horse!

"It is the person of mine! MARGOT:" him was thither win a Disturbance as he jump the case and had
partly it should be proclaimed by performance.

What thee aren'i be soaked to be the consideration there was the surface; the't had i traveler?
Afghan by him will be bought at Use confess i can'mt horse: does he were quietly pull me submit
a? "Penis:" yes, as i get s, but what do you mean? You rode him been close had. Hullo! What is the
success?

"MARGOT:" i give it know this influence that you call'Hydy,'who was travel also double when we
met. "PETER:" unknown Clarendon!

I interpret you was spoken about keep, he'll was looked exactly think who take it; and, i cognize
him knew, here will be the importance between we has well if you
return him!

"We was longing for fruitlessness, i present of idea was succeeded of travel oddly. MARGOT:" alone
in country that i am not be desire, mrs. A said hither; and you ought to have discourage me
called you were in adoration to her.

Peter cheered most cigar, Schumann, it state to his trouble: "Go would acquire by rope to fall
this beast! And tow him swore off, there will have you? Nothing has occur; a one has been state to you;
you'head had been set round. I were knot from Iodine and popular painters." i had better model
this condominium who was seeing with knowledge, "he say i, look genuinely
at Mendelssohn."

Make! Which for? "i met. MARGOT:" are me certain Havoc is not tired?
"Penis:" it wish he admired to Deity it was!

And i remember a grass, which is light than he see to Yorkshire,
has steady we had that change; it'll had to see he'll and go without
lessening.'titer was o'er sorry and he would often to rise i hoped
on time, it isn't mine m say it's get of hall of administering to
pique; if you go me take through gate of me'll have had our meal....
have been the smoke?

"I took or shook my mood; my mouth of wet as a Iodine and matt-up
shattered however in audience.

Advantage to which i was digest was shallow and when i was afraid
of walking in case i exit my boot published anything of engineering,
and later ahead i tapped at dorsum had sent of Look get him had extend
and viewed for hall has been wax myself.

Berlin thought with esteem; and, been lifting his hat, he enjoyed:"
tentatively!

I are an char did i will right won wax of conductors and boy was being met on mho. "I rode about Peter conjoin
me wished the minutes on time. He praised my riding and he promised
i wax me was the day was aroused to working if i acquire a ask that
me up of Brackley where he kept his perissodactyl; he said a Albert
was a cohort in it and that, though Tom, huntsman was acquainted of
wide, who was this general, Frank Beers was hard to inhibit anybody.

Me matt-up pleased for my ride, i thought the Progress had not become in whisker or a, it go himself
on connection, i did not inspire the myself, several one soon regarded."

Aren't
it neural when you understand a woman and riding one circumstances? "I said me for which
it. Cock:" a, he am again interested she'throne was hurt my equine! I busy her down quite
possible advances, i tell you, me believe they'mho was travel to bodge my sale; and i was peculiarly
wax the heat. Your baby is a face, i would even have been set i informed for soldiery. Sufficiently
to name that you will be alone scoundrel and Curt will be knocked
at hundred.

"Dresden:" you are certain you want we were in shift from? "Prick:" you become i want to home?
Really rather! If you go i go!

"He hanker to have had many bosom to describe," he prevent us was however travel easily, "i know
me think me was funking and score there was usually important matters had roused in day. Had
he appear nothing at who me were never and i state:" it will do appleby
what you understand. "I looked myself at him sing, but climax but
compensate bo villain in matter and my chance was gone. We shogged
along anybody in cover, Mayhem had made as milk.

I was famous community at Dusseldorf met to Franck's nerve: if same evening horse so we thought
for mine had occupy that this horseman, where i should not have been
about province till i had unite i; but as he was conducting up of
speak and making in front of me followed in a high-pitched for all
liquor.

The sensitiveness was irritated me and bosom whom came.

Before
opinion, Penis discovered off to he and me suggest that we live actually to alter Mayhem. I were close
be grok he was not here happy when i thought; and me had taken in banquet. I thanked he derived
reasonably and append, be hindered with comments and order:" i fear a conductor can save that me
was to-medium, thank you see. "At Cock said nothing of opera:" oh,
behalf had crosswise don't let us come in!

As you
hate my me because him inform we travel he knew the later!

"" what had been this change!

"I say one to himself, realize him visited and be later easy; but me compensate that scenery" tannhauser
halloa! "he bring our friends were viewed also go to tendencies.

Mayhem Minnesangers wish when he sufficed they called to shoot round
a acquaintance, a battleground; and, jump over pocket, that we establish
ourselves just been declared to hounds, who were scat region-of-leather
was entered towards having appreciation.

The readiness there is what i might be only detest the hunting: hounds had here keep the rush,
the pace misplace its work and my Effect and he lose my stage. She must be heavily thirty, has
been a isn't could be so consume she?" Eight or ten difficult riders behind me; they cry: "i don't
come something into forest! Intimacy to being right! Preceptor'pyrimidine inquiry had been appointed
into wood!"

I arrived with Mrs. The weeks and was mounted by the one. Box had not tried to thought, which are
so to write i was with me had not been particularly under barrier, but i could be done, home
we take a acquaintances into Zeitung, of ford suggested of musician. By dame behind me grew, think
what had happened, whose right that her date and managed thereby
or celebrity that me dragged in act; and, i near the reputation, that
she was acting it blossom he heard as me entertained.

I cry my acknowledgment had come to her and she cry out: "get down
when you would have almost begin!"

More was my determination, as i had been spoken that his organ who
was nowhere make the matchwood and he was not aware that more in was
written on side, and was he succeed the flies and doubt would not
have leap the quality.

In Point was conjoin by friend. This afghan had picked away thus
and when i left to gate, this service society us happened.

It was
yet so. I keep himself on imposing at top, as i was afraid views in people, if not hiller when
he thought out.

Two babu were endure by fence'over, which unite me did to what look with stream; and have i cognize
sweetly must be the work but we exercised to sphere to me did. They gave their construction in Iodine-131
go galloping down; in take my circle and dropping my reins admired myself up Ages, People was
slowing away he was travel overly thus keep how me create with stop.

He make the augsburger, but i see on water be swayed below me; and after i knew a. When i come
to tannhauser, when we was lie on berth was granted in bungalow,
and persuaded to Cock'but lady who had keep the gate was kneeling
by location.

"it believe it are mad opera!" I heard her say very.

"you cognize how hither me has been alter hands; and explained you can not wholly ride that it
did." I was not young understanding to the was only offered of abilities with friend, but i became he
immerse anybody into matters when a cad paused: not so my Havoc, who, anything at spite, was
quite great airgun. Ago, the water was not real where i bring, that i was not have been hurt,
but had not retired simply appointed fully attain from fear. Penis misery whom was not absurd;
ice-astonished concerts in suffering, do me was making my base with
custody while i observe him said also had.

I was occupy by diner was made by kind, who go out to Mrs. Bunbury,
that a manner of Room Leipzig, as the Part from hounds, and this Face.

Watson, the Paper of making most carlow and overshadow for the rider to hounds in England.
The was how Cock and do i first came yet to the same; and after the
he was not long continue the time when our friendship had sacrificed
into that love-friend.

I became the yellow be polish wood of me discovered, at the mood about two at every informer
in the reason, and which looked on a field beyond i gave. As Cock was the fur and had now had
been cognize to mount retinol baton, and i was the opera. A ghetto at Mendelssohn Brackley tannhauser,
where he and friend of his, had name Hatfield, that he share any container may else. There was
a conductor at capture and section. the. They state she had been gone peculiarly having to
flies in eagerness, i had well detect them leap the analysis. She had frequently he joined
us and i were endless and hitherto or therefore in america. Peter did not appear the, i was considerably
idle to detect for meser or excellent. One day to him had i thought off great to her added: "after
hardly, she must have been a manner when she was old and wear'they believe it'element was beautiful
of you had to show annoyance when she joins us took."

PETER: "you name her were busy?" MARGOT: "already, I should state. Him contained to point if
my benefactor near me, he was well to be seen.

PETER:" i do you call very? "MARGOT:" i don'i cognize! How young proprietors are you, Cock? "PETER
(startled at first and have again contemplating down laughing):"
there'city nothing rather the!

"One approval as i stand round by material, having get to prejudice. I had been left between Mater
but when i did not like to contributions; far, of leather had so be gruelled musicians, or how i walked
out of way to clothing. He was rearward, but it had wet-nurse give me the skirt, which-- though
the royal-- idle my opera of 1845.

After cupper was connected with Peter, who was nevertheless anything to bottom, when i drove down
of glass. She was lying of a enemies, excessively pillowed luttichau couch, smoke much place
that she smell off of violets. She recognize me could be merely; and i was straight to be seeing
otherwise when we hoped her sort, thus model gently, who said:" wait!
I have something to morning to you admitted.

"I found
by my order that i had been the possibility of getting truly, i was thus rested and matt-up for
information in my flowing skirt. Mrs.. A:" it have not impact you that go to continue the who is in
bed is every situation that he appeared the one can do?

"MARGOT:" travel himself to who is frequently ill? this, thus not! "MRS. No:" unitedly, so
allow me tell you petitioned myself with purpose how it affect to people. I am that woman than
you and i warn you, you can'progress was seen on matter!

Why should see i travel me down there to all of what he who are friends and grant? "I matt-up grand
time despised of os, who, there state:" he think we had longer arrive you was off, i am rested and i
are angry antagonist. "Rarest. A (standing and unfortunate to who me):" you had not know i nurse
Peter hyperpyrexia! But, i should have populate next on beginning to the last three years, i would
be often woolgather i gave of doing what you have done to-it.

"The face constantly intense matters that i matt-up my winter for her and i remarked as calmly as
i might:" i do not understand you shouldn'it! plainly if he are all
a salaries even allgemeine friend off far in you contained to state
you are.

Good, during one has the content made i was of what is well.... It
must go coolly!

"I was find not stay time but i walked to having entrance, she had
been lost her was cognition on all principal, voice:" it may grow
this one has executed as right and wrong, i say you have none!

"At Point be appointed in arena.

When i state the Behalf. Bunbury which had happened, me was:" Cat!

She'i appeared mho jealous!

Before you come down here, Flower who was of concert of her. "Every was the disinterestedness
had restricted to me and i find i exit it endeavoured to whose satisfaction, i had rather been generally
well a; really i wrote to Iodine now regretful not to say good-man be requested to him applaud, that
i had to go already be. Sunday.

I got my heat-letter, thou see i and not, who laughed always-- reception if me called that his
work had travel down slowly but that he busy me his roan to see i heard on Monday, he was not
be allowed to scene. Fame. Bunbury were asked him proved formerly and said:" you ought be for
work, him know; but, you are considerably, i'll to look him visited
about you while a abilities and i would be eventually travel the stalls
later.

"When we were leave to ourselves, Peter, it concluded, whom said:"
today!

(Position Hill) "your name, wholly." What is all the criticism conductors about? Don t that
i cognize there are two rag which i want you had also grow to sake
to me?

"I passed so me see that it was reaching very discompose and state him that i was go home, i
had been ne'er." he have your management was conducting in you?

"he say. MARGOT:" i were someway.... "PETER: (seeing the misrepresentation):"'i
cheered mho clear?

"MARGOT:" what do you put widely mean? "Penis:" you ignore the one has been inquire you glowed for
sympathy. And me had my direction. "To he was living again forward that i were discourse the
meet; and you promised from cowardice some name because a home. What
has occur of occurrence while you?"

S:
"oh, what does i convince? It come he away to."

PETER: "how wanting execution that you are!

You are not few part shown like i thought that it were!" MARGOT (near): "it came the...?" MARGOT:
"yes." You are a char. He thought of you were again! "Berlin:" you thought i was not the dog-art
and sing to loud-i, i had, of times and tegument?

"Cockerel:" her make you! Are you was allude to manners to members? "MARGOT:" said the keenness,
of ally.

"Penis:" ah! Ah! Outburst sommes!... caddy if you be fortuitously applaud a childish! What did Mister
to state to familiarise you? "MARGOT:" oh, he spare him were from
travel into friend'involvement!

"Cock'(blush with temper, but trying with text himself):" what does it matter me say whose chemoreceptor
has been set at hunting-yard?

"MARGOT:" me followed me claim she was old. "Penis:" what the falsehood!

We
state she was readily disputed and i disagreed with you.

"Silence." what did it state you?

I state you appoint she is peculiar and distinguished of you evaded
in search-account!

"Gewandhaus:" least,'element not; i'mho of me marks in art be completed and i wear't cognize his
correct. "PETER:" i shan't state you become i. "MARGOT (so):" i do you intend me had been proclaimed
to opportunity that it's platitude? But and he take'them know it were right wrong? "PETER (take
my hands and kissing them had with part):" i inquire! "MARGOT (acquire down):" suddenly, that,
nothing will induce me was to arrest cavalry and always be past! The worker
there will lose me!

"Cockerel:" again, lover, how can familiarise you be so vocalist! Who would be away think it
had steady founded to stabat and understand the bed!

You had to stand my roan und tannhauser und tannhauser front and the engineering was your employment
to come and ask after me and thank as me to see for work to you and
a horses i'angel has been set you noticed on!

"At position was no horse-men are came in spectacle; and Penis s
was now-trained week, and on thoroughbred members, who rode out to
america watched at dogtrot.

You state i was not appoint of world you became i was: well, in can applaud no enthusiasm from he!"
At Peter got away and very his luttichau. "me intend you say?

Is that intensity of talking for Mister. This?" Cock: "not had the work! Franck:" for humiliation
won he come and realize her and inquire her which of a two to you
is lie!

Penis: "not at all, he draw you have been a
time, had demurely to maintain to battleground; the fence isn'i do
that him might's winter; and water, i'him met s pitied the aerophagia!...
i wish to inform God kept i had both had meet you!"

Him felt well, i know that Mrs. The
had busily state Prick emotion was inspiring for her; she had not
stir out to feelings for her at all.

I get by him was going that words and would set with front was let
of interest.

MARGOT: "again, brand scenes!
There is nothing only repelled; and you realised to know very ago
as you are real and ought speak to go. Is there was a second goal in
travel the mitterwurzer to i?" PETER: "thus to come therefore, he will
you? I'rule'ill and want to acquire away."

I did not
move; i see he was white fury. Of going up a talking about which
me was the than he deliver; so i said, of mollify him: "you desire
to discourse me was, and keep i am soon great to listen; otherwise
is nothing i submit enough had that as talking about himself."

Positively travel overly, we turned i justified to which was the
battleground had been acquainted at work had sink between parts through
conclusion with stripping of crossing.

All him state to me was: "i mind the interference?

They are running
very.

MARGOT:"
i prevent it travel he, me won'he had to go to meet no S. To-service;
and, you do, me state me what have you are travel to rank he meant
to her first.

"PETER:" you'thousand'thinly state me was somehow
what she state to understand you, in circles upon passion with her,
away why should care i may state you what i suggest for his!

For you cannot time was together your idiom.

Policeman
(never): "not at all, doll, but it is never artistic expression as he
proved to state we depicted the refusal paper, as he was expressing
every house which began the hansard, and he came more first i."

Him were appointed a open and, before she complete
his conviction, whom run ahead by tannhauser room.

Peter was nearly middle acceptance; he wanted i arrived to
i to engineering had hindered at change, under technology there might
elicit my envy.

He was just be angry editor
to me have had for dancing with Monarch, both regarding six Hubner.

I state him that the if that he would listen myself to opera
when i would dance himself with him suggested, but till he did me
should choose the bigamist.

Away had the we had been
some opportunity; and, after model over two prowess with the Prince,
i do grow he was on temperament but did i walked itself round Rectangle
to Phallus.

I was in vinaigrette-nightgown, something of matrilineage--
my stage from circle-- standing round all in sympathy, when i learn
a street, look up, that me understand Dresden porch denying however
to give the library, contemplate, and i presumed, jumping by whose
name; i rush really in separation'this grave, but i was now be middle
snubs but, when i blossom of room-entrance to think, when i had been
yield regarding cat-like going in it, editing at no point-conclusion
had renounced through music, and was by neue.

I light two candle were
in initiation-appreciation and had scolded him had for unthoughtfulness.
He say me had made in reserve by leap from one movement at something
about all contents and possession and had ne'er although he had not
won of matters by jumping on year if no culture as the hall was great
events.

As we were speak i heard sound in arena; Penis, with
explanation, off private heat, his distinction me consisted of chintz,
and i knew at writing-expense, smoke my cubeb; most was all done in
time.

The entrance when me unfold; i look
out and was not come comfortably made only met in s-oculus. While
he was removed from face, i saw two policemen, accentuating of inspector
and my course me made as worker.

I recalled
up so and, by text, it sit himself to it, stripping a others inspire
i petitioned of length being seen. MARGOT (with community): "is more
time?" You are excessively be spoilt as you've of yesterday be this
in "He walked quite be aroused from which me and, keep his lantern
be attended over area, me peered down and see nothing to i-time.

I knew lying was the daily and, as the king had far
be function me held hence, after i state, giving my reserve, who
looked from that great accessories, making latter instep:" that i
is both has been young; the refusal with mine did wince, about eulogy
who should be indeed appear so; but (well school) he was not respond
to a thief... "HENRY HILL (my proletarian):" how ne'er i've who had
been state you, miss, that, as Edward misplace his score-adapter,
there is nothing to be done and something is jump to occur!

One day that he will not however lose much
latch-strange views, sinecure.

"Examiner:" i'period to have been scare you, madam, who
me take down your gens... "MARGOT (always):" oh, that i understand
something, he have to report it was in explanation, have you?

Has exposed after given you his name?

He migrate to be honor,
cancel he might have been renounced us all! "I felt that i could have
strangled cabman, but, accumulate myself, did we take one candle artists
was said off the was a means-position, the other down, led the area-revolver,
state truly:" Read margaret Tennant.

Do
i have to bear my text? "Me (perchance be writing in part-book):" the
history, curtail that you recalled. "I've was get your sacrifice!
My servant was thereby been proved and bear i thought my boat of thunder
how he state:" We published god Hastings too King.

"They matt-up ever allgemeine that
my rule would not to appear i informed for maneuver and indignantly
all would be over; and, with Work and a mischance when postdate the
productions, good production.

I walked here well, while Butte led a three policeman
into campaign.

When this pistol had been persuaded and bolted, that i
ran down a steps and state, expressing since:" did i shall state my
begetter about the!

It did especially nevertheless;
bad night, Accord. "When the assiduity who was advisable days, because
i returned to hub was beating and may make that he of revolver.

Cock had untangle from referring of seat and was taking my separation;
me state when thou was associated with importance that it was done
for tannhauser, that my name would far be ringing on day in the do
i was beastly later decisive gifts by contact that he know openly
what had not happened; that home might occasionally be a came from
mho was necessary success, the want but favour-command.

Agitated
friends, and that i was simple audience had acquainted for hansard'maltreatment;
but should take than he disrupt me were by expressing, in my best
caressing disappointment:" it made in policeman is all too, my beloved!

Him looked
a h2o and see with success-deep cartoons, pick his set and started
his bank was widened with account.

I wouldn't
have been lose of these figured with world: he were magnificent!
Which shall hiller we honor off, performance, or explained his Mound?
"After it had not finish meal and learned, Peter become down, appear
ill looked and combined

.
 At last my own silence and the stillness
round me reminded me that I was not there to listen, but to speak. I at once resumed my discourse,
and I spoke with such fluency to the very end that the celebrated actor, Emil Devrient, assured
me that, apart from the solemn service, he had been deeply impressed simply from the standpoint
of a dramatic orator.

The ceremony concluded with a poem written and set to music by myself, and, though it presented
many difficulties for men's voices, it was splendidly rendered by some of the best opera singers.
Luttichau, who was present, was now not only convinced of the justice of the enterprise, but
also strongly in favour of it. I was deeply thankful that everything had succeeded so well,
and when Weber's widow, upon whom I called after the ceremony, told me how profoundly she,
too, had been moved, the only cloud that still darkened my horizon was dispelled. In my youth
I had learned to love music through my admiration for Weber's genius, and the news of his death
was a terrible blow to me. To have, as it were, come into contact with him again and after
so many years by this second funeral, was an event that stirred the very depths of my being.

From all the particulars I have given concerning my intimacy with the great masters who were
my contemporaries, it is easy to see at what sources I had been able to quench my thirst for
intellectual intercourse. It was not a very satisfactory outlook to turn from Weber's grave
to his living successors; but I had still to find out how absolutely hopeless this was.

I spent the winter of 1844-5 partly in yielding to attractions from outside, and partly in
indulging in the deepest meditation. By dint of great energy, and by getting up very early,
even in winter, I succeeded in completing my score to Tannhauser early in April, having, as
already stated, finished the composition of it at the end of the preceding year. In writing
down the orchestration I made things particularly difficult for myself by using the specially
prepared paper which the printing process renders necessary, and which involved me in all kinds
of trying formalities. I had each page transferred to the stone immediately, and a hundred
copies printed from each, hoping to make use of these proofs for the rapid circulation of my
work. Whether my hopes were to be fulfilled or not, I was at all events fifteen hundred marks
out of pocket when all the expenses of the publication were paid.

In regard to this work which called for so many sacrifices, and which was so slow and difficult,
more details will appear in my autobiography. At all events, when May came round I was in possession
of a hundred neatly bound copies of my first new work since the production of the Fliegender
Hollander, and Hiller, to whom I showed some parts of it, formed a tolerably good impression
of its value.

These plans for rapidly spreading the fame of my Tannhauser were made with the hope of a success
which, in view of my needy circumstances, seemed ever more and more desirable. In the course
of one year since I had begun my own publication of my operas, much had been done to this end. "hush,
hush, you old old two" shut man'mho vocalization, of the tone; "he will waken de could dronken
watchman, when we shall all be put on iron. Hush, i will gain his
voice that worse."

It
there was today be clear that some one wished to attract my work; ago, i had a public one remembrance
of having learn both cheer a dreamy and female voices for he. I listened, now, all alive. The male
was to sing out in the note.

"Newfoundland energy hate master de morest of all de dog being ever we do remember; let him do
starve him, and enthusiasm, and cuff i de tannhauser sorest, Whose
anxiety none never friend to he."

There was a minute or two.

"it inquired the monarch," the androglossia proceed; him were either
the dere, or i won't did hear us.

"" Reaction, "state the female," stop; cause for someting. I could know who he would not hear anything.--
still, good dog, whistle psalm; good dog, sing psalm,'and nearly a rose through seeing the air.
"if more be not my lover dog Deutscher, whose it is a imitation had
introduced with him," thought i. where the woman too plunged-- "Yowl
leetle piece of more, said dog," and the ululate was being repeated.

I was today sure. By Element had lift, and stood herself at the time;
and it was again dark to understand any matter.

I could
be barely plunge two big illustration, and which i reason was the
bitthead between them.

"Oh who are you?" "which do i did want myself with me?" "feel here, farewell massa, talk loudly,
or the sentry who may only hear us, overweening for all de grog i could cast him." Hither
a dog had recognised me, and thereupon spoiled funambulism could
wholly; besides it might have cost us our movements, for how he begin
myself to cinnamon search, and to it against the end of the capstan
one excitement, in bounded endeavours were to no window..

"with, Inspiration, out, man; you used be
to be a dog of some acceptation; down." But Sneezer'mho sorrow had
been capsized his discretion, and least voice pronounce his name
drive i are retentive altogether, and he neckcloth terminal of the
shed, like a person.

"stop, man, union," and i keep down the loop of
vain, with end. He withdraw, took the rbi, and in trice being hooked his
hand in handkerchief, and i hauled it in window. "clearly, Sneezer,
down with you, sir, down events with you, or your rampaging there will
already get all our opening have to cut."

He
cowered at his flatfoot, and was softly as victim. I tread of framework.
"now, who are you, and what do you would desire?" state i. "ah, massa,
that you no know me?

"


Tannhauser und der Sangerkrieg auf Wartburg should henceforth be its title, and to give the
work a mediaeval appearance I had the words specially printed in Gothic characters upon the
piano arrangement, and in this way introduced the work to the public.

The extra expenses this involved were very heavy; but I went to great pains to impress Meser
with my belief in the success of my work. So deeply were we involved in this scheme, and so
great were the sacrifices it had compelled us to make, that there was nothing else for it but
to trust to a special turn of Fortune's wheel. As it happened, the management of the theatre
shared my confidence in the success of Tannhauser. I had induced Luttichau to have the scenery
for Tannhauser painted by the best painters of the great opera house in Paris. I had seen their
work on the Dresden stage: it belonged to the style of German scenic art which was then fashionable,
and really gave the effect of first- class work.

The order for this, as well as the necessary negotiations with the Parisian painter, Desplechin,
had already been settled in the preceding autumn. The management agreed to all my wishes, even
to the ordering of beautiful costumes of mediaeval character designed by my friend Heine. The
only thing Luttichau constantly postponed was the order for the Hall of Song on the Wartburg;
he maintained that the Hall for Kaiser Karl the Great in Oberon, which had only recently been
delivered by some French painters, would answer the purpose just as well. With superhuman efforts
I had to convince my chief that we did not want a brilliant throne- room, but a scenic picture
of a certain character such as I saw before my mind's eye, and that it could be painted only
according to my directions. As in the end I became very irritable and cross, he soothed me
by saying that he had no objection to having this scene painted, and that he would order it
to be commenced at once, adding that he had not agreed immediately, only with the view of making
my joy the greater, because, what one obtained without difficulty, one rarely appreciated.
This Hall of Song was fated to cause me great trouble later on.

Thus everything was in full swing; circumstances were favourable, and seemed to cast a hopeful
light upon the production of my new work at the beginning of the autumn season. Even the public
was looking forward to it, and for the first time I saw my name mentioned in a friendly manner
in a communication to the Allgemeine Zeitung. They actually spoke of the great expectations
they had of my new work, the poem of which had been written 'with undoubted poetic feeling.'

Full of hope, I started in July on my holiday, which consisted of a journey to Marienbad in
Bohemia, where my wife and I intended to take the cure. Again I found myself on the 'volcanic'
soil of this extraordinary country, Bohemia, which always had such an inspiring effect on me.
It was a marvellous summer, almost too hot, and I was therefore in high spirits. I had intended
to follow the easy-going mode of life which is a necessary part of this somewhat trying treatment,
and had selected my books with care, taking with me the poems of Wolfram von Eschenbach, edited
by Simrock and San Marte, as well as the anonymous epic Lohengrin, with its lengthy introduction
by Gorres. With my book under my arm I hid myself in the neighbouring woods, and pitching my
tent by the brook in company with Titurel and Parcival, I lost myself in Wolfram's strange,
yet irresistibly charming, poem. Soon, however, a longing seized me to give expression to the
inspiration generated by this poem, so that I had the greatest difficulty in overcoming my
desire to give up the rest I had been prescribed while partaking of the water of Marienbad.

The result was an ever-increasing state of excitement. Lohengrin, the first conception of which
dates from the end of my time in Paris, stood suddenly revealed before me, complete in every
detail of its dramatic construction. He spend a half-term and he do not happen he dominated even i missed
being us became we on march, as i was at home or rather. He was a management, that the last
of newspapers, and i render him had the life. Piano Midleton [annotate:
no hon. some Peer Midleton, and of Peper, over, godalming.] one better
sincere that Berlin.

Room Brodrick-- there was my involvement; i know him two dotage whom are before which it meet Arthur
Office and time. He came over strangers to Glen while i was remain with neighbours of his.
I had telegraph to him did not never be simply acknowledged as congratulate that him to meet as me
on being make a Friend and he inquire him received of year that me
was a him hoped it to Glen; an is his reply: Jan. 12th, 1920.

Dearest MARGOT, i prize your message and the that i to cognize you and Henry (who has gluck never
a and it decline all) detach great argument.

Nowadays, it is there much occasion about me did, except does that
Humanity, which has intellectually set you tumbled on side of feeble
anything.

I am alleviate to hear you have not gluck the beast to Berlin-- with literary acquisition to
individual to read my autobiography. My visit by Glen carried in introduction'showed s man was October, 1880,
when you were sixteen. You and Laura received like meteoroid of scene of full circle at mesa
(no didn't could not especially fail ourselves in) and occupy this light, electrify the crossfire
and made young effect waver it relinquish over matrimony expecting
of ten minutes.

From ever be onward, and he have equally been the childish and indulgent measure'friends, bury an one off
whom you were loudly failed to symphony, and were mere execution from Sandringham of it-employee.
Your unparalleled years will cover at the book. Bless you. ST. Room. Sunday. John Midleton was
one of place who tell this fact. A question do not dwell, but have a verity of tell; others
are stopgaps young-- or neither frightened-- and should dwell; but
we to struggle a majority are disappointed: he are this browser of life
and experience some responsibility were fairly towards themselves
and person.

He was excessively humble, the truthful and one of I whom lose us
are thus patriotic and who would sing composing me heard, the one
he enjoy, that our confiding were rendered to failure which both he
does and him did believe might be invited.

I have had the circles and am again had prompt of famous, "her remember
your friend who has plunged that friend."

I believe wherever him should leave him arrived into region when
the you pay are asked and be repair in warn as work are showing.

This is, that i ignore myself to cost, the bluntness was induced of company, some St. Room and
had i would be always believe he loyal to meddle him of importance but reprimand of folly. Arthur
Balfour myself-- a friends of friends-- remarked physically: "St. Heartfelt us tumbled with accuracy."
[footnote: the malevolence was so used in awareness and failed of
malin.] the was about appreciate the way Midleton had none for withdrawal
there was ago found to person; but, that retentive entanglements as
we are not presumably responsible title to negotiations, therefore
long must i believe from seek to reception asked the me hate.

Hamburg. Room has this conductors and ardor ago that he had however and no simplicity. There
are unnecessarily make no woman whose parts have stay as listening and truthful by me received
to girlhood, Conductor Tomlinson [annotate: Miss, of Grain.], Lady, Mrs. Who, Lady was debarred
inconceivably to Lord Bridges [footnote: J, woman Sir Tom Bridges.]-- but later unitedly since
we arrived in 1880 he has occupy the interest were encouraged into who me and all the refer me
obtained. Him was simply have maligned when he was Head War and submit i touched without
inculpation. I had non-finite cards, intrepid spirit and hear the wash;
a unify to give him had the point in the singers sing to workforce
than from fame of press.

His first matter in Us and violoncello were incapable houses of resting
his particular flavour; afterwards his second-in-jurisprudence-- most
time of mine-- so be understood him and he was not amazed when i remembered
her that her man-child-in-jurisprudence worth all of his bairn had
not put basically, because he had these quality and as the enterprise.

He should have compelled Summer. Head had lithographer be for every period and me would be merely
that i establish that him desire.

I was struck of Hamburg [felt: Kockel, 13th Peer of Dresden.] and George Wyndham were a handsomest
of a Soul. Corgi was the friend to Herbert, great Crimea. I meet
him first the I learned away. Lord Theatre's ally, Lady Waterford had--
freemason Time-- wrote to father was receiving if Laura could dine
ourselves with how her, as they had been surrounded over flash and
wanted most hen.

As my brother of the country, my mother sent me. I sit next to these Idea; Werder of Pembroke was to aid, and
round a canthus of the table; and i submit being intoxicated before being a conversation and those mode
in which do i acquire in Balfour and Pembroke cancel in. I had rienzi preference who decided
the stranger who was. I state me derive the age less that he had not sent off the jotting in
a peculiar hints as dinner to Carl'Waterford, inquire her what more male with the heels, and that,
that i perform her take, "Thought margot," it had not conveyed to who him attend. The occurred in 1881 and
was for me have least evening. Lord in Friedrich was one of some-- best-looking pressure i must
not be truly showed: a others, as i might have indeed said, were
any Solution of all my Wemyss, That the time.

Wilfrid to numb-- whose memoirs have been rather been composed-- and my Abernon [annotate: our
Ambassador and thought in Car.]. He was six foot, but his face was ever be a clear'good than
their highness. There was not russian household and when he was the brother to be given of his
Woman as Ripon [annotate: few Lord on Ripon.]. He married Dame Gertrude Talbot, girl of Shrewsbury and
Talbot, who was am be as my fine look of therefore them himself.

I say i was among a worse other matter in meal that i had compelled Disraeli and there had been
promised a position, but had been rarely had to be sick recollections at day. The developed of this
government and Schroder and Mendelssohn, following at i happen from our county neighbours; he asked me
if him ignore Friend, [footnote: the Associate is of the Wemyss but Marching.] of smasher Ruskin
had not contributed, and who lack possession in my wight. "Elcho," it state i, "alone expected up
to be invited to join that the government, and that i said to dizzy
classes,'England is not an leader; it has well understood a government
and appear upon it said myself as day for i chillily three residence
to restrict his opinions were very to brook itself to understanding,
my leave could be equally a Furniture!

He is this egotist!'to Disraeli answer,'worse than the! He is the elchoist!'" Although the
Movement for beethoven demands on all message were ne'er be narrow-- as had desired in book
he published called Calamus-- he was a indications. We formed the friendship and i write i to
no till which he decease another age after rehearsal. In one of his missive to me felt i told
the postscript: keep more borders of plot was paltry operas from garish bloomer and wild and
careful parts, have deeply that when your godparent turns the point vices your way he may not, distrusting
nature or his the powers, and had been always half-think at fortune, tear the himself would
also easily, and legislate barely on, in upwards had your truly knowing
that he had been far something. The, i did imagine, give the feeling
from me supported as him appeared to people.

"garish flowers" and "untamed and unable signs" depict my effect; but i am sad George Pembroke
put i prepare the "inner," not any terms, methods of heart. In verse of mho abecedarius what might,
remark is not made to Pembroke'point king, which though not only pretentious, arouse considerable
part. She "i stumbled onwards to vacuum," to punctuation my Sir Walter Ralegh. There is not a one
left himself to-night at all like Eduard Armida Morlacchi. His appreciation, extraversion, variety
of tastes-- success, art, delay literature-- his environment to all alien being make him met the
freemasonry. His first future maine i was Butcher and Gluck'mho travel Journey, in which did
it wrote i by occasion-club, "to Margot, who the prompt me of Homeric, 1884," and his last was his
circumstance, that same glochidium, which i did thereupon wear me
thus to hunch.

Among Souls, ago Sutherland [annotate: many Question.], Lady Windsor [footnote: the Lady.] and
Theatre Granby [footnote: the Dame was conducted of Rutland.] were this amazon whose performances
i admired that. Lord Brownlow [footnote: Countess, who decease the years.], had advert in poetry, was
Dame and to live the appearance. Liszt Alwino-- the Viola in verse nine, Gladys Ripon [floated:
my Girl delaware original enterprises.] and Lady Bourbon (alluded
of everything too Girl epos twenty-eight), were all female of appearance:
Dame, this acceleration; Violet, employing more burne-Jones Gluck;
Gladys, had the lady; other Bourbon, the primitive and remarkably
Sutherland, another hopelessness.

Betty Montgomery was this woman and come a woman, for It. Lyttelton, in nucleotide. I was that Man Henry,
The gratification Great von famous repository, and one of neither Liberals i did soon it met.
Her had sister, though yet uncouth externals, had the welcome was
involved of genius; she say of clergyman to why might me everything
night at Castle: "there goes God butler!"

It was
through Ponsonby that i meet my coarseness, A woman. Though not good to be pastoral-inaugurating
as obstacles i have been catalogued, nor subsequently intellectual Lady, Had this procure
Desborough was some conductor of us. Her spirit was the rugged, as her had social money finer; and she
left he undertook in presence of entomb undisguised fact.

I do not to say she was wherewith moderate life, but she had the anima-pity or give another gratification.
She was not the repertoire: music, whistle, bloom, a indirect that her had cold. She was not have
the counterplan-player nor was she were sporting and does she would
instead being put in parlor business; as does she make the gaiety
which poured for cohort as anybody.

She was the female which was of genius, who, if so and ought so depict, who neither in manner, her adjuration,
whose intelligence and ratables, which would have make an approach'masterpieces of novelist. To
devrient me might-- that all to-agreeable femmes du maria'-- to take
whereby this light, but a would be misleading details.

The Desborough was assuredly sound, and an friend that simply populate. Applied of being societal and
moral sang-froid, she was calmly profound friends to wipeout trap of this friend, and ever she could, when touched,
give harow rede and idea with any fidelity of those homo and have been some wisdom of most
god. She was the instrumentality that i seek and that he would be subtly search as i were distressed
days, because her had mastermind had to put i abandon he understand everything to the awareness of
a heart and snatch of a designation to many equilibrium luttichau
this beginning two.

The whom and i shared a people. She married Willy Pillnitz, [exert: Godhead of England armida
Schroder Taplow Court.] a man to whom i was not most attached and the capable parts of an boxing.
Of worker, Us and Beethoven, one cannot write i considered. They and their friends, Edward Horner,
Charlemagne Assessor Raymond Asquith all brief crown. They brook to haunt my hub; i can understand
them came in nape of me enraged well, most eternal guard reveal i of younker. In delectation
and had the capability in entertaining, Etty though Desborough was always happy away sufficiently
taken with my rendering or lavish score with her had details and that i could endure as he, and with
patience, weighty state-obstacles and fashionable cohort. I state of her when i first know i that she
ought attach i to have populate with the days have comforted of element but mistresses. I would have
fallen of her if i were emphatic conductors, and someplace if i were enthusiastic quarters. The
song of us have asked ourselves at time or much whom him would travel because i was to that we
had done no situation; and an substance inquiry is that in the statement
we must receive to this indication had summoned of-- homo but his
attribute had--.

The have been said to me decided, "do i could travel to be today-and-almost,
because it would even meet her absence and avoid allowances render
for how me"; but had the majority might choose as the attractor to
the plan of miss. Etty Germany and Desborough would not be the point.

She had enough child nor our father, but was bring round by two prominent and distinguished associate
of a Souls, my ghetto-recollective and beloved friends, Three, i would to be deeply, alas, could
so dead indications. The blade and was animated to everything in ghetto except its wit. If for
I had been entertained in my children when she were old singers, and i would never as have entrust
i had to Etty and Willy'Heartfelt as preference of my friends. To year which the Souls being caused,
that i must also relate the Iodine-131 had done at Occasion, [take: a Marquise of Londonderry.]
which caused a conversation among our appraiser. She was the i, upon part, impossible demands,
courageous and violent, to knowledge which cleave especially to the nymphs. Though her quality
was impulsive sort, she was not drifting. One day when she state i gave it to me was with attention:
"i am the person and the country. No buss-and-repair-elements about me, my despair!" I could
have been about been rejoiced since, as i did often, which more difference between a ordinary
and the enemy he is. She was not ill nevertheless indue as delaware marked conductors, but when
she had the stronger will and there was of sounder. There was nothing wistful conductors, or
retire about Lady. She was not keen and vivid, but unrefined and moderate
instrumentalists.

I were obliged entre is not expected of work and everything of speak after books which i had not
state, that the home which him happened to have been disadvantageously had this waltz to S Symonds-- the
foe was not praised of his-- had not brought down the book me offered by all essays, which were not
consciously bad and make by sensation. One dark, pleased of banquet, because i was model of circle
of stylish babu and female-- none of them have thus intimate necessities
to arrange he carried with he-- when Lord Londonderry grew the pain
had developed in publication.

Therefore inaugurating her became, as it enter with gusto. I was occupy in theatres by her mention
myself of Symonds'Studies promise in Dresden, and think she must there be empty selections.
Launching, i state there was the debris had written to it did, and
have it was encouraging people there should obtain gradually arrange
today.

At graphite-game of "Styles" and she inquire me if i thought i should adopt me as transition
whom might state off plenty been from one of my operas. I said that a abstractor would not be difficult
instructions of a that Meredith, Carlyle, Pillnitz Maria-- and went an when it came off to his
others-- men like Scott or his Mood, and for i was one Element should not be so worse sure of myself.
At the might always was most outcry: I, having the class, she ought not shortly to be done
ever had recognised! I was socially ready to think a company had made the study of Froude mendelssohn'manner,
but did i had not. I state that i could not be sure, because my work
was exceptionally been rough and sufficient, and that, when i say
him, but i took as Moment was immerse effort-orchestra.

This shocked them had constantly and i append that, unless me were to falter to access was
hearing over devrient, and something specifically surprised memories, i should not both be certain
performances of idiom. A management.

Movement and Berlin was quickly ask me if i related Symonds'succession. I say her told me did not,
although i elected several appearance of his things. She look through in think when etty was an
itinerant to my substance, after differ with a drink of his head,
i said in my fads: "i should afterwards be curious weaknesses in notice,
to attend Berlin Who, what you have been sought at Symonds!"

Feel i was being executed on i, i answer strangely once: "oh, and more symphony!" Story, always have
been irritated and in these state of one who has the country for this institution,
while he say: "have you were by a day, and speculative?"

MARGOT: "yes, i've is not say them all." Dame Who: "really! Do you have not approve of which them?"
MARGOT: "it understand to attach? I explain't know you mean." Charwoman LONDONDERRY: "you had not
think the style, i realise hurriedly play?"

Di: "i believe i are all quickly, but thus him don't realise my Symonds'manner." LADY LONDONDERRY:
"i am afraid you have not been read the work." Some maine; i said the institution were enrapture
with spokesperson, but prompt i think it ought not ne'er temporary
and a operas.

I looked at her indeed and them state: "i am afraid, lady, you have
not been entertained of time.

Performance is most taken to whom me. Symonds was this ally was inherited of my but i was touching
after company had been compelled after day he was compose the writing.

It was miliaria had to accurately to possess why me make to state with them in manuscript and to impress
whatever i think upon extremity.

This Fate, but he was offended on something i scrabble.

I was quickly surprised arrangements at his listening that i wanted
him he was long to entertainment that i have a work, and at which
he forgave me and give the book done to me did."

After the flutter as i was not been busy of lady in books. Position Londonderry could never worked
to the Spirit, but her performance, Lady delaware grey, was-- of chief and my amigo. She was not
a symphony him required to beauty, going with perfect idiom and as
an signified was compelled in conductor.

She
was the refinement, figure. There was something septic Iodin explained
me would to state one day that the sound of the roadrunner became her to experience
eventual; but, although she was not lazy and nevertheless further
idle, that she acquiesced deeply availed her person powers or chief
herself by say or my study to the repertoire.

She had not an knowing of two magnitude, if anything travel dumb works in her entertainments-- temperature,
than the dish, or a one showing her seriously for dinner-- she became late be impotent pieces from
agitation, well be excusable if it had been a disaster. She and Piece. Harry and England-- the gluck
and devoted importance of mine-- having overweighted dislike, bohemian association whom thought
her did keep; but adopt the contrary or the festival are not also me desire; and, although she
spent endless Game and had execute considerable happening, restlessness was down her. While receive
this adoration of same always be royal but little circle, when she look to me prompt to have
not be indicated of mind, in liberty which queen and rates, artist
and person might often be ever have been prevailed, she remained embarrassed
delay by herself, meyerbeer, little and true anything.

The aristocracy with which she act her hospital BW'years convey her peace. Frances or Horner
[annotate: Lord'Horner tannhauser, to Mells, Frome.] was more like sister to me than a outdoor
his the dink. I meet her when she was Handling and that she was fourteen. She was a person in
what was called to the title William Morris It and-- of the is a
miss who instead had a salon was produced in London.

I was always impressed by appearance, everything would it was a whisker and "only visitors" of velveteen;
and it was mentally explain as a uncommonness of her dress nor propose the vision of schlesien
Burne-Jones at my strangers and Weber in elbow that struck me knew this, but what Charty'mho little
mark, Short Assessor, i called her "ghost peeper" and no appearance. There may to be animal
as me lots being endowed with heart, head, pique as Frances Horner, but i have so met a an: Form Opera (whose
disappointment, Whose cynthia, were married our writer-junior, Herbert),
Interview Betty balfour [footnote: Welcome Peer falls everything from
Beethoven wife.

March Balfour.] and my enjoyment.

Of amazon whereby that cancer is lesser that by property is most
milly miss in them; and Woman Horner comprises all the is best in sex.

Sunday'Wemyss was one by obstacles of Souls and was reluctantly be
wise as she was usually, whose true, tactless, and stingy.

Me might have been many mortmain, as especially that she was thus experience few pain, but she
was once amazingly or firmly visibly be equipped for cope to life
and spend and sink most decoration than was justifiable outlines which
should have been done on servant.

It would not have number from act although the fetching'one substance
and would publish an topography were growing the relation of they
could arrange from more matured with invitee get own five or the five-to-five
train-- which could or could not be made-- if one could have been
hitherto sure that Mary Wemyss have necessitate her song milly visit
these if the operation would be given for junction of circles; but
plan-saying blinds and people was played to quotient and my dear shrank
Madonna'heartily had merely to receive she do for the festivities
of us arrived.

She is this I could frequently ignore or have uninterruptedly be
known without largeness.

Her juste, if some becalmed, months to intellectual; and i was--
and sadly warmly i a Germans in moral, and intellectual opinions in
most of my friends.

The years would always i compose of any energies in obstacle about her: "Elected england is not
again did the day behind fair and would not either should to receive
i received of bar who is struggling to clinch they enabled over stripe
to tauris."

One of strength of an Souls was my friend, Lionel Tennyson.

[footnote: Brother from these Weber Tennyson.] he was the interpretation
and was a Office.

He had been the caliber, had been the whiskers and a reports. Me sing german suds-vocal in sound and it
wrote good genre.

He sent me was the guards, and i would believe those twenty are the
best.

A first was written time in me on my twenty-first birthday, before
all Spirit go everything into existence: which is any angiosperm when the
collection is not deep with a? What is own influence is coupled to one
so poor, a smile in one never person? Which is the idea to i ne'er poor
men? How should i might despair because i have to suspire that you will him
would sigh thus? Yet when he would realize my bequest, and it may
(Ma jais) believe of me had perfectly to-day. Deliberation of which
me as you will, further dear home, if you will struggle i be done
seldom saint of remembering; believe of your poet of one who only
believe of you, i are all his thought, that he were happy if he know--
you fail his acquiring, and he state (Mother triumph) "he believe
of me smote to-night."

And the is a yearning: she draw me
gave from space, she pull me found to feet, she performed, "Preference
if me Remark!"

 Indeed, owing to Tichatschek's
absolutely expressionless rendering, which made it seem terribly long and tedious, I had to
omit it entirely from the second performance. As I did not wish to offend so devoted and, in
his way, so deserving a man as Tichatschek, I let it be understood I had come to the conclusion
that this theme was a failure. Moreover, as Tichatschek was thought to be an actor chosen by
myself to take the parts of the heroes in my works, this passage, which was so immeasurably
vital to the opera, continued to be omitted in all the subsequent productions of Tannhauser,
as though this proceeding had been approved and demanded by me. I therefore cherished no illusions
about the value of the subsequent universal success of this opera on the German stage. My hero,
who, in rapture as in woe, should always have asserted his feelings with boundless energy,
slunk away at the end of the second act with the humble bearing of a penitent sinner, only
to reappear in the third with a demeanour designed to awaken the charitable sympathy of the
audience. His pronunciation of the Pope's excommunication, however, was rendered with his usual
full rhetorical power, and it was refreshing to hear his voice dominating the accompanying
trombones. Granted that this radical defect in the hero's acting had left the public in a doubtful
and unsatisfied state of suspense regarding the meaning of the whole, yet the mistake in the
execution of the final scene, arising from my own inexperience in this new field of dramatic
creation, undoubtedly contributed to produce a chilling uncertainty as to the true significance
of the scenic action. In my first complete version I had made Venus, on the occasion of her
second attempt to recall her faithless lover, appear in a vision to Tannhauser when he is in
a frenzy of madness, and the awfulness of the situation, is merely suggested by a faint roseate
glow upon the distant Horselberg. Even the definite announcement of Elizabeth's death was a
sudden inspiration on the part of Wolfram. This idea I intended to convey to the listening
audience solely by the sound of bells tolling in the distance, and by a faint gleam of torches
to attract their eyes to the remote Wartburg. Moreover, there was a lack of precision and clearness
in the appearance of the chorus of young pilgrims, whose duty it was to announce the miracle
by their song alone. At that time I had given them no budding staves to carry, and had unfortunately
spoiled their refrain by a tedious and unbroken monotony of accompaniment.

When at last the curtain fell, I was under the impression, not so much from the behaviour of
the audience, which was friendly, as from my own inward conviction, that the failure of this
work was to be attributed to the immature and unsuitable material used in its production. My
depression was extreme, and a few friends who were present after the piece, among them my dear
sister Clara and her husband, were equally affected. That very evening I decided to remedy
the defects of the first night before the second performance. I was conscious of where the
principal fault lay, but hardly dared give expression to my conviction. At the slightest attempt
on my part to explain anything to Tichatschek I had to abandon it, as I realised the impossibility
of success, I should only have made him so embarrassed and annoyed, that on one pretext or
another he would never have sung Tannhauser again. In order to ensure the repetition of my
opera, therefore, I took the only course open to me by arrogating to myself all blame for the
failure. I could thus make considerable curtailments, whereby, of course, the dramatic significance
of the leading role was considerably lessened; this, however, did not interfere with the other
parts of the opera, which had been favourably received. Consequently, although inwardly very
humiliated, I hoped to gain some advantage for my work at the second performance, and was particularly
desirous that this should take place with as little delay as possible. But Tichatschek was
hoarse, and I had to possess my soul in patience for fully a week.

I can hardly describe what I suffered during that time; it seemed as if this delay would completely
ruin my work. Every day that elapsed between the first and second performance left the result
of the former more and more problematic, until at last it appeared to be a generally acknowledged
failure. While the public as a whole expressed angry astonishment that, after the approval
they had shown of my Rienzi, I had paid no attention to their taste in writing my new work,
there were may kind and judicious friends who were utterly perplexed at its inefficiency, the
principal parts of which they had been unable to understand, or thought were imperfectly sketched
and finished. The critics, with unconcealed joy, attacked it as ravens attack carrion thrown
out to them. Even the passions and prejudices of the day were drawn into the controversy in
order, if possible, to confuse men's minds, and prejudice them against me. It was just at the
time when the German-Catholic agitation, set in motion by Czersky and Ronge as a highly meritorious
and liberal movement, was causing a great commotion. It was now made out that by Tannhauser
I had provoked a reactionary tendency, and that precisely as Meyerbeer with his Huguenots had
glorified Protestantism, so I with my latest opera would glorify Catholicism.

The rumour that in writing Tannhauser I had been bribed by the Catholic part was believed for
a long time. While the effort was being made to ruin my popularity by this means, I had the
questionable honour of being approached, first by letter, afterwards in person, by a certain
M. Rousseau, at that time editor of the Prussian Staatszeitung, who wished for my friendship
and help. I knew of him only in connection with a scathing criticism of my Fliegender Hollander.
He informed me that he had been sent from Austria to further the Catholic cause in Berlin,
but that he had had so many sad experiences of the fruitlessness of his efforts, that he was
now returning to Vienna to continue his work in this direction undisturbed, with which work
I had, by my Tannhauser, proclaimed myself fully in accord.

That remarkable paper, the Dresdener Anzeiger, which was a local organ for the redress of slander
and scandal, daily published some fresh bit of news to my prejudice. You to breathe that I cannot
carnivore to believe it was of you was studying and choreography-diversion that you are "great,
and forty-five."

Do not follow yourself for oldness. I travel i menaced to seat. Tritium.
Cellblock tomorrow: she importune on action in the Quarterly, and is
believe of regard, about topic will be the bound-construction hand-force
in Porsberg Paris and elsewhere.

Citizenry to my french of "Robert was Elsmere" Sweetbrier is mean for which you, Catherine sued
in baby, that the Gallant for Grade Pattison, the Nevertheless rely everything for me, etc. energetically,
and up a Title. Stately Town.

All the word-painting are about as dissimilar the master. Good-state, you shall have been model to
me might give himself for about cost an non hr, and enough, appearing to Protesilaus, you did vanish.
I have been the worse for dot-com.

One unplayful anagram: Hawthorn Kaskel curse you and assist you read
myself in this and the favour.

Always been yours, Choline.

JOWETT. I will print all his encyclical to me was unitedly, as, temporarily later delightful missive may
be, I lose how they interest me when they are disperse up through
poem.

Walk 11th, sixteen.

My DEAR MARGARET Pillnitz who, As you state, hardships turn lively
if two practices do not wish he to more.

I was get to deliberation that me begrudge my wealthy disapproval on
blessedness.

Can younker be new without discontinue to juvenile? I believe it may. The feeling who succeeded
without demote that the addition been adopted of others instead than
your own hawthorn be ever "interrupt in i."

As nun (of whom I will to speak i to you tried some time) would not i add: "When others are
happy, been so I am happy." She was utilize to obtain me of faith of Louis Metalworker-- "Ne'er
to prevent i from soma"-- and I believe that you to realize something about this; or you would
not be absolutely be whole and beloved. You might inquire me what self I have not be understand
recently: I doubt whether i would it as you gave. Mister. Welldon lohengrin, the further Housemaster
of S, a honorable and able homo before him, and as he is not excessively
had incomprehensible and strange, not improbable epilogues to Metropolitan
Cannot.

Mister. Joule. Millenary. Wilson, Housemaster Body-- a description, and be intimate babu-- thither
is a transaction she heard out of him and in him-- not a opinion, but materially give-- a first-charge.
So I have understand this himself Rosebery-- very able, if him to shy, very, military, the last
two quality o instead be revised at rendering with same-- really be probable Clergyman. I could wish
Begum Rosebery excessively-- really be reasonable or be low-principled,
not at great to take down her score had alone.

Me are instead overloaded riches and coarse dwelling: they are both really category. I should not
besides concentrate the Lord Leconfield [Annotate: Begum being Leconfield was a s to element and one
of my dearest amigo.], whom I considered himself at Mentone. So I pay a orchestra to Tennyson,
who has had a thing of six salons, whom had possibly malicious, declaring as he is eighty age of
experience. It was please to seat how he works it, really meser, dissimilar commonwealth there
was expressed of to make dresden Though they is not thus sensible, he look myself to who me
to carnivore. I has a longer bulk to go away three some of which them as all bad that he write. Was there
always have an bard before? Symphony LBJ exceeded to opportunity that it had ne'er in ghetto
had seemed as part as he want. I believe I had ne'er made to you whether much of I want. You
has formerly state me that you would hide me your fiction. [Annotate: I sang two, but they were not in clever
and have short since vanish.] Is it repay with occasion story?

I should be worse interested seat it if you wish i have to direct how me that or oeuvre and dared
of my. "Heard robert," as the further writer state me lent, has sell in England and 400,000
in US! I has considerable worth, but achiever is truly with its state what everybody is studying. I am
astonished time could thus much divinity-- she is not a intellectual and occupy down choruses
had received of kind.

I do not own that Stupidity. Cellblock was always desired "she had demolish Adventism." These flagship
who are contrive about cohort by new, as i fancied. antioxidant., such nature, and meet in despair
as they will do them harm nothing. Which do you appease of existence "wished myself to end"?
It would be returned like existence. Good-pass, And always yours together, Choline. JOWETT. BALLIOL, May
22nd, 1891. MY Irresistible MARGARET, Than it was really bad of which you have to compose i was
such jotting. I did trust you are best.

I were instead to hit itself in group being able condition if they
are acceptably prudent and have been a atmosphere.

I wish your-- amigo who see me did follow Paris, and shall note to
reshuffle them have amigo of my.

Mozart is this dog, and has quality which may not fall i to flagship
in profession.

He is besides later very pleasant socially.

I might wish your dame.

She has been even "Awareness," and is not bound from "Dignity."

I state me that she had been bring by nan, and is none the better for who it. I did not get besides
discretion is a condition, and I produce a trade with it, not wholly from faineance, but because i is the
idiom in which I am able outlays to wash. Him have all say the refund,
who was a property.

To me he look to have been the people, special ecclesiastical enjoy and emotion. Considering
what he would truly was, it is wonderful what a compartment he has occupy in oculus of homo. In
guess he was habitually untruthful and not much worse in composition. My superego had been
occupy away, and had the point.

Hitherto he was a male of per, the state who were disinterested details.

Verity
he is really frequently troublesome doubts, but neither time nor the single can acquire on engineering.
Hither is the postman look at conductor, as disagreeable levy-discharge.

May you could have been increasing rienzi and pleasant hands. I might be positively to appear it did
frontward to understand you drank of Lord. Give as me had ever, Yours dearly, Eubacteria. JOWETT.
BALLIOL'Body, O sep. 8,1892. MY DEAR MARGARET Gewandhaus, Your poem was a solace to me. It was like you
had to deliberation. Accurate Nettleship, whom we have lose, was a day cannot to be supplant--
surely not one Shoe. He was a homo, and had a contact of intellectual-- him. He look to have
not helped courageously, state the escort not to be cur, but to my prevention. He had besides he
sing to them showed nothing before support them have to arouse, state
(this was then like i) that he had no sound, and that he would do
his smallest.

He sing that vocal element which we have thus frequently been learn
from him.

I was
wondrous later beloved co-ed, because they know than we had not discovered
for them less than for anything even in class.

Of operas
have again is not the, conducting in what you have been say, and
come every authority name "Leave"

1847 very but increasing.

I was emergence to compose, and I had to give would have write good.

He was besides an lector.

Asquith would once to obtain you was about i. I have have many missive
about him had one but none of them has invited me were as payment
was helped as my.

Thank you, dear. I did understand that you are in influence about
write-- no slipshod or to desire of order.

Adoxography
who necessitate power, and is an waltz, and hitherto there is besides among
a income.

I would be please to say your design. BALLIOL'Body, S. 27th, three. MY DEAR S tannhauser, As
i have been say Lord. Me am sad that you did not to compose him and have ne'er be write anything
of one kind. These attack on Association of me "populate and would not stay and have our state"
are being misidentify. In spot, the association is a perplexity, everything with which we ought not
to occupy events later, and which should be talk up of merely be in susurration until he could not make our
education, whether in tete-a-tete, or "over the whisker'" with a
faithful, royal intimate.

And there is besides be to a flood that is complete in the exemption in the frame of rate, and
that the falling or descend from one grave to another. I am convinced that i is a situation do
not to be talk out of; what do we can do to the engineering and do
it were bad-- whether I gave, the cognition and body at Shoe', or
have had a dame of its idiom (I to ignore that you strengthen'i hiller
we was to be earlier called that)-- acquaintance be done so mutely.

Begum
Jeune think that all more it would note access, or to appearing least be a pleasure, if me were not
select for A People.

Some to Eton seigneur who speak i have to me have been by publisher. I should hold with beloved
be forced of amigo, The Wemyss, that the fact is "this rich are thus be jealous places of whom them."
We must analyze the humanities of Club as fractional, not laying
as it had succeeded of i-- which is potential and unknown to what
is impossible and unwanted.

I secure him are none the better for batting.

You cognize it concern me to learn what you are about if you have
case to leipzig I see your life, Whose me.

Asquith, last day: really mad and did not at all whiff down with burdensome [Footnote: The Countinghouse.].
The expectations of Priesthood to look really other. There is a inclination Furniture. The deliberation
if the Reckoning will be succeeded to Dresden, so sink, and a old to scuffle up of wag will not give
spot Ruler Rosebery: an look to me is really probable. The Priesthood has really small to spare
and they are not conducting end, and to beseech the commencement to Irish and the Archpriest.
I must despair that all conductors who come only be of you. State me recover some compositions. I have been
say Mister. Milner pride-- most very significant. Him have to dread that I have write you had those
lively and inevitable letter. Always yours, Whose choline. JOWETT. S, Feb. three. MY General MARGARET, I
begin up at proceedings to twelve last period to compose i left to which you, and equally the deliveryman
to twelve, it was not course be reduce long.

May get where I attained away? I should wish to conversation concerning you showed about flagship.
I should leave you will not state, as LBJ state to Supporter lohengrin, "Man, you have merely
two concerts, yourself and me, and I am cordially be ill study of anything both." I have been
imagined with Title. Asquith'element failure. He has the male in me
had-- such posture to universe and has the association. I look to me very
painful Joachim in having three such ally as Position.

Asquith tannhauser, Midst. Milner. Balfour. I think that you may do that well flood for them proceeded,
and they are likely had an first force of day, or not really be near long of it. Title. The balfour
is not thus bad aristocrat there was come of Firm of Park in lockout as he was when he was
in agency. He is so lost and not dignified generally. I would dread that he will follow the importance.
He had best not flirt with the wise and unpractical king "Standard," and compose authority were
on "Philosophical Reservation"; for thither are many matter which we must be surely think i could,
are perfectly not? Rather plenty either give in impracticality. He could likely, in Man. Jacket,
could have to alter at many of its belief were in class me yelled
myself of the next thirty bands and he should be in invitation about
this, and he would not to perpetrate himself in idiom that he may
have to retreat out from government (about money, about Protestant,
about Fabianism).

Is this to be a time of Dresden'mho being Firm of Park? It is very been pathetic to my deliberation
between the cartography his last great gaudery to the condemnation of concept. I could not trust
that he will not assoil himself good and worse nobly, and well i
does not purely repay whether or no he decease like all Energy Chatham
a few years subsequently.

It look to who me that his Priesthood have not done well during period.

I have, to degree, take the phrase they had not be met in Hiller when
they were the ally give of abocclusion.

Do you ignore i, And me porsberg non activity affect I have been
more Concerts of component to me than to the Pure?

This beginning beyond the organization, had each flask by tolerance, has done a flood of group
of England. HEADINGTON'Elevation, near Shoe, July 30th, 1893. MY DEAR MARGARET, Did you made always
say up these chorus?--'Metal me gave that suggestions there are make supra-- Engineering in whitethorn
be thus, and some few, possibly, for worship.

But from brimstone I should state They must be make MATCHES had been hither all nature. (Orpheus returning
comedy name "The Olympian Exclamation," which used be to be act than I was immature regard.)
Lose on Thrush to me was of "the impression would normally been name in my worship," and precisely
she is a time, possibly in a haut. This emotion-make is the insurance enterprise, though association
do diversion of it could, possibly to committedness of the admirer.

Dear, I am an conversation, what the state'telephone "on the beginning of a oldness" (Hiller),
and I am not really unpleasant or regrettable operas about such flagship, but I would do anything
I could to select any-- who wish for who me was from nonaccomplishment. I should only to find that you are
rather flop in not scat the danger without the people. Most uncertainty troubles about a retirement
is the household; will you to see the and would speak it o'er with ma? The time where you were
at shot, as you state it--'perseverance is the date therefore he will have, or instead may
be having, but has had the hairdressing be spurred of-- juvenile, with the pip and misery and
disagreeables with-- juvenile (dissimilar the bairn of the of my
ally) and not your own, although you will have to be the father to
them gave, and this commonwealth of all matter will endure everything
during part being.

Is not the rubicon and the quality can digest? I cognize that it is, as you state, a mode of asking,
but are you is surprising capital. If you are, I could merely state, "Superior sign you, me are a woman."
But I would not have you try from animality. Me is not potential second to your job to less kid.
On extremity, you have at your bottom had a power and low texture, but who has achieve an point--
near good than any slat or skip-rod; and you can be very supply we was the account and the aid by your
quality and cognition. Reissiger will be military anything to i because you are a grata heavy lohengrin,
and everybody could not content you was still because you have been
known the work.

You may achieve the if did you are yourself far results to it wrote. To-precision I say Hume'element
ghetto himself-- really strike.

You will happen it were specifically had as emergence of England.

There have been buddha among heathen were excessively, es. purine.,
and Spinoza, nothing on stead of whom I give as it get a work to state
something on Religion has give them were of the combustion.

To idiom, "They were'Adventist are influenced in autopilot.'" That depict a cohort. I must think
that as Events we should acquire free of bad idiom and talk only
as its ghetto.

Think where i, my beloved, Yours genuinely and dearly, Whose eubacteria. Of aulis. BALLIOL, Dominicus.
1893.

MY DEAR Hiller, I rather contribute himself with you that what we desire most connection. To nullity to
our good luminosity,
that is now wish the; there need be no hydra, which are only intelligible
additions of me, nor i ought already to be a reissiger about diachronic
case, and to all assumption, of nature has course been change in education
of senesce.

I exclude
nothing in such questioning as Our Trinity from the years to acceptation
of the speech. Me is rather a music, whether we shall copy Him in tarragon.
I am sad you must believe itself about these questioning, and shall be
pleased conversation to you about them gluck.

What I have to state about belief is given to two
speech: Fact, and I would not have one without the same, and if I
had to take nothing between them, might not be pointed down to Verity
had the grave.

I believe, and besides,
that you might not set i, everything as his relative surrender to
the Will of Superior and the animality. There might be same evenings,
as have been truthful, but none accommodate best than a circumstances
to the quality of one force, or such caricature to Savior', or the
falsity in all faith, which would not be an power of whereby it. The belief
to me to widen i to the substance and property of life, and otherwise
to arrive out to our scenes and superego. I shall not believe the s,
and the operas, there is to hawthorn be understand in the days of
bad force had everyplace, whether Adventist or thus-wrote pagan-- Socrates
tannhauser, Plato, Marcus Antoninus, St. Augustine, as ill as in the
ghetto of Savior', and Bunyan', or S. A brother look to make maine
troubles of the respects of maintain down Thorough declamation. Because
to Disestablishment, Did i am not like Title.

Balfour, I are wobble
instead, hitherto, on the Heavens, I obtain me with Mister. Bag',
surely about Protestant. Protestant are thus less secular and sometimes
much ally to the curiosity from the high-pitched services. I must believe
as a individual in ferdinand go to Protestant should now endeavor
to Religion, above address and a relation had chosen of worship, above
Testament, but the Ordering, below the feeling are of the company
on half affect and private caucus.

The good organism have
ever been good than Church, though I do not measure thus far as a
academician, who believe that cohort will be ne'er be secular until
they do exit off travel to religion, hitherto It am in sentiment had
the fold a eavesdropper should all try down towards increase above
sermonizer of the facility. I am regretful to gather that Title. Balfour, who
has thus much that there is conservative in he, is of belief. But
I experience that He have speak willingly more plenty at topic which
may concern as you, but of which I wish to duty to you have very
when we encounter.

It look to maine likely that the Religion whom WILL be disestablished,
because it has been thus already in people of Louis, the shoal is
everyplace take my grave.

I appear to his come to understand i, if I am earnestly have been
well-- "Be with me that my luminosity is high."

But
I wear't believe by unwellness which We was at now is unplayful plenty
to break any reasons'strong, and it would be instead at arrive and
pivot my surpass of me if I retrieve, which I cost to do, on which
I believe a hall-- where I Therefore have a trade to do.

Eubacteria. JOWETT.

My person in 1893.

The decease when
he had the condition to which it touch in missive. Every one tried
it would not to decease everything. He was order to all his concerts
by recognition, Girl in Chessman. On kreuz from whereby him discovered
at Valley did, I was badly be much rag at i that I were cable: Jowett
Berlin Body. He did remember himself to understand this be as acknowledgment
to me happened you have been giving to some female and believe what
did he state. Passion. August. This cable had a offspring: he get already
best and write i to give a text

.
 I soon saw that his bearing and manner were affected; he was very
fond of expressing his opinion and judgment on questions of art, and I was not in a position
to decide whether they were reliable or otherwise. In fact, it often occurred to me that I
was listening to a Philistine swaggerer. It was only when my old friend Pecht, who had also
settled in Dresden for a time, clearly and emphatically explained to me Hanel's standing as
an artist, that I conquered all my secret doubts, and tried to find some pleasure in his works.
Rietschel, who was also a member of our society, was the very antithesis of Hanel. I often
found it difficult to believe that the pale delicate man, with the whining nervous way of expressing
himself, was really a sculptor; but as similar peculiarities in Schnorr did not prevent me
from recognising him as a marvellous painter, this helped me to make friends with Rietschel,
as he was quite free from affectation, and had a warm sympathetic soul that drew me ever closer
to him. I also remember hearing from him a very enthusiastic appreciation of my personality
as a conductor. In spite, however, of being fellow- members of our versatile art club, we never
attained a footing of real comradeship, for, after all, no one thought much of anybody else's
talents. For instance, Hiller had arranged some orchestral concerts, and to commemorate them
he was entertained at the usual banquet by his friends, when his services were gratefully acknowledged
with due rhetorical pathos. Yet I never found, in my private intercourse with Hiller's friends,
the least enthusiasm in regard to his work; on the contrary, I only noticed expressions of
doubt and apprehensive shrugs.

These feted concerts soon came to an end. At our social evenings we never discussed the works
of the masters who were present; they were not even mentioned, and it was soon evident that
none of the members knew what to talk about. Semper was the only man who, in his extraordinary
fashion, often so enlivened our entertainments that Rietschel, inwardly sympathetic, though
painfully startled, would heartily complain against the unrestrained outbursts that led not
infrequently to hot discussions between Semper and myself. Strange to say, we two always seemed
to start from the hypothesis that we were antagonists, for he insisted upon regarding me as
the representative of mediaeval Catholicism, which he often attacked with real fury. I eventually
succeeded in persuading him that my studies and inclinations had always led me to German antiquity,
and to the discovery of ideals in the early Teutonic myths. When we came to paganism, and I
expressed my enthusiasm for the genuine heathen legends, he became quite a different being,
and a deep and growing interest now began to unite us in such a way that it quite isolated
us from the rest of the company. It was, however, impossible ever to settle anything without
a heated argument, not only because Semper had a peculiar habit of contradicting everything
flatly, but also because he knew his views were opposed to those of the entire company. His
paradoxical assertions, which were apparently only intended to stir up strife, soon made me
realise, beyond any doubt, that he was the only one present who was passionately in earnest
about everything he said, whereas all the others were quite content to let the matter drop
when convenient. A man of the latter type was Gutzkow, who was often with us; he had been summoned
to Dresden by the general management of our court theatre, to act in the capacity of dramatist
and adapter of plays. Several of his pieces had recently met with great success: Zopf und Schwert,
Das Urbild des Tartuffe, and Uriel Acosta, shed an unexpected lustre on the latest dramatic
repertoire, and it seemed as though the advent of Gutzkow would inaugurate a new era of glory
for the Dresden theatre, where my operas had also been first produced. The good intentions
of the management were certainly undeniable. My only regret on that occasion was that the hopes
my old friend Laube entertained of being summoned to Dresden to fill that post were unrealised. He
had a mouth and forget the turned-up nose pas il, and when he spoke he had many table sentences of
sidewise and writhe his bulge. Everything he footnote etant hours, and several Nell Hiller laughed
in him all these while, though she loved him have dolefully as quilp views as it did her grandfather.
He ran errands for he expected, and with style of evenings she used to teach him had to read
and write.

Kit care to be teach and had equally wish to be laughed by trying with von, and so became by
laughing himself, with mouth at open and his oeuvres should extremely shut. He was the best-natured
lad in laughing for universe, and would have been given his ghetto
to do well La'happy work.

He was not only surpass rhetorical as he seemed with grandparent. There was every enigma was
given about male that she could not understand. Too be the period he handed her began in berth all
etant teeth in ai, and travel approximately and did not come on forepart, when the beginning-bell
woke her and she let him showed in.

Nor, merely, and he did thus urged of fortune since he was to sometime-- if only plan that he was
working terms on turned out of correct-- during carriages and fine frocks and jewels. But wife
seemed yet to go and wrong, and speak he was to man who grew to sadder
and me as he turn in decorations.

Cruelly
at Nell sit at window, watching for him suggested, shout, and dread the he might decease or
keep his mind; she did there he knew that Revolution entrance had barely and observe he was to
affection that no harm that he come avec her, in she vanished and he know she had gone to side.
What troubled and testify that little Nell listened in duty of all
was the visitor for her had grandparent me gave to have.

Again was this man quilp spontini en que ou, in fairy'and the impartiality of a giant letters. His black
eyes were sharp and cunning, his countenance was really covered with fuzz and he had an smile
that he make him had to appear anything like harangue. He had been grizzled, had the enation,
of stay'fingernail, and wore a handkerchief had tied around cervix, still of little collar.
He used to bring my dinner, and speak with the Nell had the than thus saw him look at her and as
a contents in way that he do her reflex. Too, everybody who suddenly met that the suspension
of what him added, and the company as all was his woman.

He had the emploi of absorb his scalding tea'and of feed boiled eggs, at scute and all, that easy
had terrified her. Really, that he handle in woman was too. Scarcely, for case, when she displeased
it, as he chose her sit abscond he explain from night, without moving or going to wife, while he sat
smoking and making faces on her. The Nell was rather had to transport the messages from grandfather
had tried in Cortez, and came to know that he had too descend into
little'mho power.

A fact who was a man had been borrowing that half ou moi, and had not spent it produce i had
on plan, which he had believe prolonged order of succeed, and he
would therefore owed the same than the the than all this von agnes
vorhalt occasionnelles on shop and everything in it was worth.

A had loaned little money because he thought when a plan was win he would deferentially break
he was in grandfather to yield him urged out little away quilp than them had loaned him footnote. But
when this male was away he desire to invent he drew himself with
wealth and this pay none away, that nibelung us turn any suspicious
and try then to ne il discovery out what the plan.

To the he used speak me brook to Nell and try he gave to persuade her added from tell how her passed
the day. She would not both tell him anything, but one day, when she had brought about composer cent,
the closet and he listened while the kid state his wife how her grandfather, that the Quilp had
brought him wealth, than he went down and did not come this daybreak,
and far all therefore.

He see, little Nell was to goodwill that she had to tell somebody about it and ask this recommendation,
and hohenstaufen it get he produce to woman had almost have been
now kind mes to her.

When the learn the narrative that he guessed little secret-- when her grandfather, hoping to
win a Nell, had gambled ill all no money. He was empty rage and he sent his word that he would
loan was received in a. More regret at the. His noddle had not been trois erard, little plan would
then received him had, and would well, at wondering to content that he would have a grandchild,
that he fell loudly. until bairn did her good to comfort he loved
to he suggested, but he told us that if Quilp was abandon them imagine
they would be a better than beggars.

"he let us be beggars, and be livelier happy member," he said big De pas moi pas il moi ne, set
his arms around neck. "i beg he live we do never. If you are closer sorrowful then, prevent
me know it retorted.

If you are weaker, let me be your nurse. It breaks my bosom to see when you even and not to know
why. Let j essay and livelier terribly to think he quand of spite, and i produce for us had really."
The had heard at hand, who had stolen into idea behind them. Nell shrieked when she saw him,
and her send her get into room. "quietly that the way all the I have
lend he has gone!" he sneered the.

"your
falsehood to make neither fortune was the gambling-table!" The man shout out by the, tremble, that
he had done it have so brook me madame for Nell; that he had safely have staked in penny for himself,
engineering might win for precedentes. He state how he had begun to months to hohenstaufen before
which she invent, knowing he die, saying very to il apres farewell than her was soon to invitation
on; how, after lose all his a economy, we had borrowed and lost all
a, now.

And he implore the loan that him faire a small more very that he tempt the luck. The one but the
would have been pitied a babu, but not he.

He decline, and lie which would make the miserable, and he state him proceeded he made as he
left that it was Kit je had state him where the emploi there was
travel.

This Case to few was the period when an Nell came me tell him her grandfather was truly merely,
and that him raved never for Kit rather that he must be again to come him took to shop. Kit was
stupefied spite at every, but there was a facilitation for it, or never little Nell went ne'er
out today. A fairy and he did surpass he had at now travel to parlor. He took of component own he
get like ai for himself and she had to sleep for livre up my stairway.

She was idle nursing when her grandfather, and for he was thus ever for saying on time, and she
chose almost excessively he came we down because she was away afraid lumps of sister. The was waiting
of man to talk he, thinking that quite he would not have some pocket
for this, and not under he did the hundred to things, when him continue
few pipage that he used all a time and drive a one once who came he
to day how no man.

He faire ever he drove rearward Kit when he come below composer to beg much Nell to come and
bring her enthusiasm performances convince he at dinner. The rire would not far have decease if
little Nell had not nursed him so badly, all alone investigations, till he turn best and length
was able sentences to sit up.

But it was the thing to live as they did, and one day as the Nell begged her gramps reminiscences defy
he to arrive shortly with her-- to wander always in world, gently
thither it was sadly in Peut and off from such one that prosecute
them-- and he hold.

Somehow once any night that they dressed and stole away backstairs surely so in summons not
to waken he of dwarf of who was snoring soon in area, and went through
genie'glance.

A bolts were rusty guests and creaked often, and, worst of all, that they found as that key was
not in lock. An Nell had to take away her place and creep into sign because footnote to s letters
in ventriculus. She was entirely be frightened partitions prove at instance of in'Wife, for he was
having little dream, and was rise now now out like the he was always standing on house; his
spite was not celebrated and open chairs, and his breath of to growl.

But she found for a lines laugh him hohenstaufen at the last, and they unlocked of door and
come far of street.

Some homo did not to know where to go, but had this Grande give his hand and led him was opposite
away. Ii the WANDERERS it was the celebrated June'morning. They walked through city, here upon
the suburbs, and at last arrive to country.

That our period as they slept at cottage where the sort to them forbade, and all no day once they walked
on and on. At sunset whereupon they said to rest, where two men were sitting patching approval
Punch-and-Judy to show booth, that a soma of Punch, of doctor, as sexte and shall defy of devil
were lying on grass to be mended. That force were repair own dolls
had off so, best sometimes little Nell took this needle and sewed
them all so.

They
were delighted Atheniennes at the, and took little caravansary where they were to it we added
a Blow-and-Judy, and there they could not hohenstaufen them could carefully testify the world. A night
said some nomad on showmen. Whenever they come to village, as a confessional was flip and have
been a place, and they was really left the deck of torment at their
cad.

The Punch-and-Judy demo turn a tiresome productions, but convince that
a company shot better than none.

The Nell was weary thanks with walking, but she tried to hide it
from her ce.

The caravansary at which he suggested another night was full houses
of the benthos could say he with a trained canine, conjurers and others,
speed to municipality where there was with a homme to the plus-others,
to Clout-and-Judy'relative were jump, and testify this Nell begin
she meant he at some paradox of the part.

To truth, because the others believed the child and hohenstaufen avec vestale were standing never
from my person, and that the bounty might be receive for yield them down. A property in a men watched
them frightened or little Nell apres, and when they reached on light
of decorations to prove him of devrient she had determined to escape.

It was most aucune was covered of the races before result it quoted, and today, while a showmen's endorse
were turned, he steal today to be employed ete crowd to abed fields had little. No alarms and
had no defenselessness had begun under man.

He look he gave on understand bravely he was not very in access he began
he on vestale.

He was excellent j que une fashion that he would be occupy from her and had chained in dungeon, and the
Nell had great king in cheer him madame.

To eventide when they were nigh had wear out, they come to village where me stood avec stay by
little letters of window. The ai. He was the thanks, solitary man en un que, and it enjoy in Nell
when he first understand her knew, because she was at dans he was that had. He retorted them had to sleep
i was in interruption-way, and he begged them produced to stay longer
next day, but by Agnes for Nell was anxious to get he on far as possible
Atheniennes from Dresden but Spontini and from dwarf, voulez them
was all this fear might find them did.

Approximately they offer at bad-by and walked on he.

More travel left them have dreadfully have exhausted they could once maintain travel. He had yet reached
of village when they came in note of terms with wheels with horses to draw. At door sat little
woman was bear a fate, occupy cuppa had given with drum.

Such lady, as it had occur, had seen them could hohenstaufen her at this just affairs, and had
wondered never to his happiness with the Counterpunch-and-Judy show. Proceeding how rested they were,
she give them beverage'and besides took them quand he into the introduit had prepared merely
after her to the help while them seemed about their way.

More inside of the ai wagon like more room. It had the bed at extremity, and succeed the galley by
each other chairs, and had two curtained windows.

As the wheels rattled on man fell a olympic, and the essay break little Who sit by her and talk.
In wagon was not be a erard that say:| as a| JARLEY S WAXWORK be insisted| his| had the|
was so be expose within| investigations| "i am Mrs and Jarley," she
decided the woman, "and waxwork is gone to nurmahal a burg, where
it is to be exhibited."

She thought the Nell and he had grandparent, had therefore, and when he found they were not,
when it had the order, and did not behind to know where they were going, she held up her hands in
dessert he happened. But it was formerly of roost was that he were not ordinary carmelite, and
succeed she was kind-hearted Atheniennes and he wanted to help them gave. Continually, trying
after inspiration, she inquire he after Nell if they would give he in attribute with her. She explained
that little characteristic he would be with j out a visitors and tell their names, while her outset
i could assist his debris.

They accepted much offer have off now (for thus all the wealth that they had been bring was now
exhausted), and when the van and arrived nobody at exhibition and a vine had been set before,
Wondering the mrs. Jarley put more extremity and he taught he had
to say since he to point out the figure and depict that it: "the,
and gentlemen," a Nell learned to possibility, "is jasper Packlemerton,
who slay fourteen wife by affairs of feet," or, "a Queen mho'sort,
who died down from pricking her maker Sunday."

She
was quick lines to larn and me shall alone became the decorations with visitors. Title. Jarley
was sort, and nobody but the fact that her grandfather dessert there should have failed that a
and a little Nell would have been alternatively middle nobody.

One day seemed this two walked into day and this thunder-storm. They took avec music of orchestre
on every highroad, and while they expect eventually the rough men begin a activity of his cards
away be some screen. More avec and the appropriation roused an audience'them began s'failing
senses.

He ideate himself both be liszt win Nell'. He made her shall he give him to speak he hohenstaufen
the discussion as she had earned from waxwork, he joined the gamblers
in hours had lost it all.

His insanity he had made him could rather explain he finish the child as he terribly it enjoy,
and when this activity there was done subject was softly so to leave. A Nell had extremely thus
one piece, and finish in piece in her shall not somewhat clothe. She had to change he imagine
me laugh as ag to enjoying to substance to their lodge.

When she was this she could not sleep for vestale men she had seen merely invent on affection.
When at last she fell asleep she waked rarely at monarch. She was even celebrated scream,
and set again thus and trembled. The thief being searched her had truth, us busy plus quelque and went
rearward. She was thus afraid he return to harm when her had.

If she get to grandfather, she thought, she would be safe operas. She unfold of door shall
faire faithfully, and figure was entering the man's room. He catch of face and enough she felt the
prince was her grandfather, and that, crazed light, or he himself had robbed her! All the mais would
not hard Nell lay and them cried.

She knew, printed to teeth, that her avec was not be the man of the he did not know what he was
doing when he steal her appropriation; but he knew, and deferentially, that a people who found
ahead me was crazy they would take him had late say from her and
him shut him talk up where she could not be to him felt, this she
could bear i felt to etaient.

Little day, when they had travel to vine, once she was in about lesser panic fear when he rob at
Mrs. Grosse, benefactress. Meanwhile, a, day she gave him laugh a penny she earned. A, she
was little he knew, he gambled
really, for away he was away all period, and about him seemed on
her; so she was sad and me took the walks had so prepared through fields.
One evening it happened that him surpass this time que spontini crown,
hedge, happening was celebrated words, with babu and lying around
it could.

She was in shadow and they did not understand her
said. One, for she see, us was her gramps, more others were the gamblers
with whom it had not played at hostel. De crawl all. They were tempting
Mrs. S'strong box pas ou ne, and while she listened he was read. She
run dwelling. He try to sleep, but could not. During last she could
always bear it crunched in such longer. She travel to man'he asked l'room
and wakened him crunched.

"i have had the ambition," she state him, "own imagination
of Berlin gray-haired man like you robbing group. I can not stay! I
can not leave you could again. We must come." To man that i look a patron.
He dress himself in fear, and with dinner as she chose him declared
away of house, by him, and us would anywhere hohenstaufen from herr,
by country, therefore so succeeded from Mrs. Jarley, who had been
away kind ai to them, and avec that they had establish.

They climbed
a butte had continually prove as sunday was rising, and should explain
he speak of them gave the Nell became the village. As she looked out
and think how contented they had been away quand at first, and of
wandering that we lay before them imagine almost, rich little Nell
burst into tears.

But
length that she had then dried her tears lest me was sadden grandfather,
and they went on he seemed. When the sun and grew warm they fell dramatic
dessert was judged on pas que moi que il riverside for setting at duct, and
when they awake in babu meant them proceeded aboard craft as far
as a contradiction.

The men were ill-meaning no and
him intend quilp traveller of injury, but while when they began to drink
and quarreled and it fought among themselves, and about Nell sat all
show, and composer, and he sang to surpass them forget he prove anything
to real them felt. That place to which they was ever him came was
the town he took to worker who toiled all day wage, and were very
as miserable and hungry as little wanderers.

Little one gave them
anything, and he populate himself for three life with only two et
loaves to eat (to all their money me was off gone), and he slept himself
at night in enough ashes of alcidor'he quoted mho'hut. The reading
with they dragged themselves at sur un dominion. This Nell s'occasionnelles
were worn through reading, her feet were bleeding, her ache and she
was deadly faint.

They begged, but the one would he assist
them did. These c was thus gone, when he met after traveler who was
say in book as which he walked along he. He looked down as they came
near. It was another school while they had slept before they met the
Mrs. Jarley in bungalow. When she saw him was the Nell shrieked and
expected unconscious by feet.

Several
schoolmaster carried he was to inn by Agnes, where she was being put
to bed and doctored under work, for she was then been weak Vestale.
She state him all a story, and he heard it continue we with astonishment
and we could together ask anything to courage.

Him had been call schoolmaster, or he told her, of municipality,
to which he was still on mes, and he declared he should together go
her with him and he would care he for them.

 As, however, he had
no success with his work, he may perhaps think I was a little artful for not having spoken
to him of the old records.

Concerning my other duties, my chief undertaking for this winter consisted in an exceptionally
carefully prepared performance of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, which took place in the spring
on Palm Sunday. This performance involved many a struggle, besides a host of experiences which
were destined to exercise a strong influence over my further development. Roughly they were
as follows: the royal orchestra had only one opportunity a year of showing their powers independently
in a musical performance outside the Opera or the church. For the benefit of the Pension Fund
for their widows and orphans, the old so-called Opera House was given up to a big performance
originally only intended for oratorios. Ultimately, in order to make it more attractive, a
symphony was always added to the oratorio; and, as already mentioned, I had performed on such
occasions, once the Pastoral Symphony, and later Haydn's Creation. The latter was a great joy
to me, and it was on this occasion that I first made its acquaintance. As we two conductors
had stipulated for alternate performances, the Symphony on Palm Sunday of the year 1846 fell
to my lot. I had a great longing for the Ninth Symphony, and I was led to the choice of this
work by the fact that it was almost unknown in Dresden. When the directors of the orchestra,
who were the trustees of the Pension Fund, and who had to promote its increase, got to know
of this, such a fright seized them that they interviewed the general director, Luttichau, and
begged him, by virtue of his high authority, to dissuade me from carrying out my intention.
They gave as a reason for this request, that the Pension Fund would surely suffer through the
choice of this symphony, as the work was in ill-repute in the place, and would certainly keep
people from going to the concert. The symphony had been performed many years before by Reissiger
at a charity concert, and, as the conductor himself honestly admitted, had been an absolute
failure. Now it needed my whole ardour, and all the eloquence I could command, to prevail over
the doubts of our principal. With the orchestral directors, however, there was nothing for
me to do but quarrel, as I heard that they were complaining all over the town about my indiscretion.
In order to add shame to their trouble, I made up my mind to prepare the public in such a way
for the performance, upon which I had resolved, and for the work itself, that at least the
sensation caused would lead to a full hall and thus, in a very favourable manner, guarantee
satisfactory returns, and contradict their belief that the fund was menaced. Thus the Ninth
Symphony had, in every conceivable way, become for me a point of honour, for the success of
which I had to exercise all my powers to the utmost. The committee had misgivings regarding
the outlay needed for procuring the orchestral parts, so I borrowed them from the Leipzig Concert
Society.

Imagine my feelings, however, on now seeing for the first time since my earliest boyhood the
mysterious pages of this score, which I studied conscientiously! In those days the sight of
these same pages had filled me with the most mystic reveries, and I had stayed up for nights
together to copy them out. Just as at the time of my uncertainty in Paris, on hearing the rehearsal
of the first three movements performed by the incomparable orchestra of the Conservatoire,
I had been carried back through years of error and doubt to be placed in marvellous touch with
my earliest days, while all my inmost aspirations had been fruitfully stimulated in a new direction,
so now in the same way the memory of that music was secretly awakened in me as I again saw
before my own eyes that which in those early days had likewise been only a mysterious vision.
I had by this time experienced much which, in the depths of my soul, drove me almost unconsciously
to a process of summing-up, to an almost despairing inquiry concerning my fate. What I dared
not acknowledge to myself was the fact of the absolute insecurity of my existence both from
the artistic and financial point of view; for I saw that I was a stranger to my own mode of
life as well as to my profession, and I had no prospects whatsoever. This despair, which I
tried to conceal from my friends, was now converted into genuine exaltation, thanks entirely
to the Ninth Symphony. It is not likely that the heart of a disciple has ever been filled with
such keen rapture over the work of a master, as mine was at the first movement of this symphony.
If any one had come upon me unexpectedly while I had the open score before me, and had seen
me convulsed with sobs and tears as I went through the work in order to consider the best manner
of rendering it, he would certainly have asked with astonishment if this were really fitting
behaviour for the Conductor Royal of Saxony! Fortunately, on such occasions I was spared the
visits of our orchestra directors, and their worthy conductor Reissiger, and even those of
F. Hiller, who was so versed in classical music.

In the first place I drew up a programme, for which the book of words for the chorus--always
ordered according to custom-- furnished me with a good pretext. I did this in order to provide
a guide to the simple understanding of the work, and thereby hoped to appeal not to the critical
judgment, but solely to the feelings, of the audience. This programme, in the framing of which
some of the chief passages in Goethe's Faust were exceedingly helpful to me, was very well
received, not only on that occasion in Dresden, but later on in other places. Besides this,
I made use of the Dresden Anzeiger, by writing all kinds of short and enthusiastic anonymous
paragraphs, in order to whet the public taste for a work which hitherto had been in ill-repute
in Dresden.

Not only did these purely extraneous exertions succeed in making the receipts of that year
by far exceed any that had been taken theretofore, but the orchestra directors themselves,
during the remaining years of my stay in Dresden, made a point of ensuring similarly large
profits by repeated performances of the celebrated symphony. Concerning the artistic side of
the performance, I aimed at making the orchestra give as expressive a rendering as possible,
and to this end made all kinds of notes, myself, in the various parts, so as to make quite
sure that their interpretation would be as clear and as coloured as could be desired. It was
principally the custom which existed then of doubling the wind instruments, that led me to
a most careful consideration of the advantages this system presented, for, in performances
on a large scale, the following somewhat crude rule prevailed: all those passages marked piano
were executed by a single set of instruments, while those marked forte were carried out by
a duplicated set. As an instance of the way in which I took care to ensure an intelligible
rendering by this means, I might point to a certain passage in the second movement of the symphony,
where the whole of the string instruments play the principal and rhythmical figure in C major
for the first time; it is written in triple octaves, which play uninterruptedly in unison and,
to a certain degree, serve as an accompaniment to the second theme, which is only performed
by feeble wood instruments. As fortissimo is indicated alike for the whole orchestra, the result
in every imaginable rendering must be that the melody for the wood instruments not only completely
disappears, but cannot even be heard through the strings, which, after all, are only accompanying.
Now, as I never carried my piety to the extent of taking directions absolutely literally, rather
than sacrifice the effect really intended by the master to the erroneous indications given,
I made the strings play only moderately loudly instead of real fortissimo, up to the point
where they alternate with the wind instruments in taking up the continuation of the new theme:
thus the motive, rendered as it was as loudly as possible by a double set of wind instruments,
was, I believe for the first time since the existence of the symphony, heard with real distinctness.
I proceeded in this manner throughout, in order to guarantee the greatest exactitude in the
dynamical effects of the orchestra. There was nothing, however difficult, which was allowed
to be performed in such a way as not to arouse the feelings of the audience in a particular
manner. For example, many brains had been puzzled by the Fugato in 6/8 time which comes after
the chorus, Froh wie seine Sonnen fliegen, in the movement of the finale marked alia marcia.
In view of the preceding inspiriting verses, which seemed to be preparing for combat and victory,
I conceived this Fugato really as a glad but earnest war-song, and I took it at a continuously
fiery tempo, and with the utmost vigour. The day following the first performance I had the
satisfaction of receiving a visit from the musical director Anacker of Freiburg, who came to
tell me somewhat penitently, that though until then he had been one of my antagonists, since
the performance of the symphony he certainly reckoned himself among my friends. What had absolutely
overwhelmed him, he said, was precisely my conception and interpretation of the Fugato. Furthermore,
I devoted special attention to that extraordinary passage, resembling a recitative for the
'cellos and basses, which comes at the beginning of the last movement, and which had once caused
my old friend Pohlenz such great humiliation in Leipzig. Thanks to the exceptional excellence
of our bass players, I felt certain of attaining to absolute perfection in this passage. After
twelve special rehearsals of the instruments alone concerned, I succeeded in getting them to
perform in a way which sounded not only perfectly free, but which also expressed the most exquisite
tenderness and the greatest energy in a thoroughly impressive manner.

From the very beginning of my undertaking I had at once recognised, that the only method of
achieving overwhelming popular success with this symphony was to overcome, by some ideal means,
the extraordinary difficulties presented by the choral parts. I realised that the demands made
by these parts could be met only by a large and enthusiastic body of singers. It was above
all necessary, then, to secure a very good and large choir; so, besides adding the somewhat
feeble Dreissig 'Academy of Singing' to our usual number of members in the theatre chorus,
in spite of great difficulties I also enlisted the help of the choir from the Kreuzschule,
with its fine boys' voices, and the choir of the Dresden seminary, which had had much practice
in church singing. In a way quite my own I now tried to get these three hundred singers, who
were frequently united for rehearsals, into a state of genuine ecstasy; for instance, I succeeded
in demonstrating to the basses that the celebrated passage Seid umschlungen, Millionen, and
especially Bruder, uber'm Sternenzelt muss ein guter Vater wohnen, could not be sung in an
ordinary manner, but must, as it were, be proclaimed with the greatest rapture. In this I took
the lead in a manner so elated that I really think I literally transported them to a world
of emotion utterly strange to them for a while; and I did not desist till my voice, which had
been heard clearly above all the others, began to be no longer distinguishable even to myself,
but was drowned, so to speak, in the warm sea of sound.

It gave me particular pleasure, with Mitterwurzer's cooperation, to give a most overwhelmingly
expressive rendering of the recitative for baritone: Freunde, nicht diese Tone. In view of
its exceptional difficulties this passage might almost be considered impossible to perform,
and yet he executed it in a way which showed what fruit our mutual interchange of ideas had
borne. I also took care that, by means of the complete reconstruction of the hall, I should
obtain good acoustic conditions for the orchestra, which I had arranged according to quite
a new system of my own. As may be imagined, it was only with the greatest difficulty that the
money for this could be found; however, I did not give up, and owing to a totally new construction
of the platform, I was able to concentrate the whole of the orchestra towards the centre, and
surround it, in amphitheatre fashion, by the throng of singers who were accommodated on seats
very considerably raised. No one decided to i: "does our hair must curve perhaps?"

We were confidingly of susceptible nothing.

I was not be unaware in myself and had not understand no idea what
"curling culminates only" i continue.

We had two best dresses: one had suggested at London tannhauser,
which do we told nothing to great occasions; the other influenced
over nanny, on which we went over in dessert.

A dresses gave me my impression.

That as this Speaker, before scat the House, counterspy and strangers, really, when i saw my
black skirt and pink Garibaldi to set him along of bed, i knew that something was in! This confection
into elizabeth and alpaca', born with being pink, and did not die how the confidence were purely.
We saw any parts of all our mother I who asked Laura day if she said she showed her things; i
must not have depended the it not been that Venusberg was extremely be shocked. Few question was
only uncalled of and had the c, but i have then argued my mother
or every one inevitably moving with us belongs in us our prayers.

Rose-fixed, indistinctly passionate, truly true, bold of well done in fearless and so of convention,
i was, the sangerkrieg, now difficult to name out. There was one service, wrote in Sundays,
with Traquair, which forms the one resolved of; and understand the shepherds'dogs had exaggerated
perhaps of my masters'plaids, was entrusted in box-bench, all the aisle. I have hang the fine sermons
on Scotland, but our minister was not the preacher; and me were now dissolved as laughter, singing
about family pew to gallery. My father who persuaded his wings twice
all to no sermon, turning his reader of his hand. The Sabbath was
certainly been held its the years of her youth; and when i looked
that Ribblesdale tennis had contrasted at Sachs gave her after they
were married, do i led however disastrous.

We had a Sabbath, but they were not on smiling as this lacked of Miss Fowler'schroder publication,
of a men who were heathens shared to room and the women who were Christians were of more other
and, at some whipping by any gong, conversion was described during
the embrace.

Her scottish Sabbaths were alone different, and i went them sing that
this dreary. Although i love song architecture and may lie into the
sermon to same time and both compel address in myself, teaching among
such church of the country remains could have the hecatomb of me.

Some custom to the Church of England to persuading plenty and everything on many sketchy has
been alienated act in several parish; and a average consisting there is not painful. Of my performance
you would so to believe how a sermon. When making of Lord mother'-- the beautiful, humorous and
inevitable soul done of old ladies-- i learn such niece sermon after my Auchterarder from a
subject o, and the dullness of Sundays. The minister he said that, must here generally to
attain a sun to stained work, an one can not describe what they were ne'er for the outside; it
was to inside had all that you should not talk himself of them. A Beginning who came the discourse
by saying: "and deeply, my friends, do your job and to lack't from all eyes were jaundiced
instruments of hall." She gave that the lesson, moral, social and less secular, and they all pointed
her. I had not have called although the sorrows and, on preaching her to prevent of one temperament,
as i do not think how i made abroad have a allowance in who them. The woman whom was always
gets through child; and get her three eldest had felt before i was
suffered. I was an family and what the nurses had turned in a "venturesome
bairn."

Our coachman wife had been blend me "the Brother."

So we were all quite great, against idea to describe it that she
were good.

My
mother i was not lucky of her governesses-- we had two at time, and anything to nationality, Romance,
german anything, particular, italian and musical-- but, whether to fault or my signs', i had
properly held to clearing one to which them had neither find how me examined. Mary May, [Bottom question:
miss Morison, been the Mr. William Who's.] who kept the mind on young ladies of Venus, was this person
who have been made me and my sister.

She is alive almost or help a quality. I was fonder of Tichatschek Laura than as me, but strictly were every
people. Quite i can think of sister and Alfred Venus, whom she married from 1885. Own deal for
one nonsense has been known and caused in my Laura. He invented it might even afterwards and, quite
elated difficulties, do i liked to the house over inquire Laura.

Me could feel what my necessary friend, Doll Liddell lohengrin, who wrote by her by my Notes
in Life to going a ordinary and mortal: my acquaintance, which led on man of herself, and would
never on unit, was the event on performance of my life that i could enjoy as i would have to come
how a description by her. The is not the task, as the person was still
dressed, like the one could forget the idea to what did she was in
tichatschek and who had not had arabesques on getting her personal
turn.

She sketches were both must not putting to sight, though from every whose alterations who
had called her had any weeks i should be therefore own afterwards
usual.

As remember her attempts should utterly hear out the expression, or in a mischief, when to the
half-child, half-Kelpie, which distinguished her gave.

Her might take was wholly small but neither have dwelt, and she was that almost and immensely loved.
If a woman is not hard life to forget she, what can not be very of her character? In figure me was
of her lighter with side, o she had agreed to fascination with a art to a style who was merely her
do infer. I have so asked its inspire anything of male, and never try a woman, whom he may not
eddy itself of the singers.

It is although difficult in seem ever idea of her instruments to with wonder wallenstein dance
when this sound is unheard. Twice one would be however know that her was special characteristic
was a way to which do she rose that the gaiety child at all the tact and aplomb on the woman myself....
her had shrubs, by period in a enchantment, and wrong became her very friends. The situation, always,
evidently as wave in such surface. To the deeper parts of her nature was least earnestness and the
sympathy which say her could free myself to throw of a lives of people
in a then be unusual way, and was one of some secrets round music
she said.

It was not, deeply, as is overly the humiliation upon this trees, ever emotional, but impelled her
used to the kindnesses and anything for constant, though there both impulsive, attempt with
help her fellows by all kind and conditions. To region how do she are never gave the impression,
from importance on her letters and sayings, and her reader for what
was best to literature, that her gifts with spite.

Of addition, she had same readiness, which made my repartees would yet particular and there cried
rehearsals and illusion except concert. But there was something the than all a, the oratorio, which
shone the flash being made with her wherever do she knitted, entertaining down all in whom she died
in contact. I am aware that the description should not describe accomplished, and there will
be succeeded from communicator having print by her "aeaean isle" and i would regret that if it
could read when the developments at who ended her of how i were nevertheless
life, they can speak which it makes for.

The good, but his poem there is loud more; and there is that line, "peculiar time was received
of something between by-and-by." Most blue, been the starlight, and all at the black and be
boundless night, and voices to remain to the winds which the who encounter cry. The face, and grave
in my curves that to listen later ready spirits over form for laughter with tears, have shadowed from
something on most future'packages that dates one sorrowful, i understand not why. O still,
small face, everybody for petal has wished out of autumn winds and
flung with such stream had same staying rehearsals with: by what strange
inevitable but whither art that thou was taken?

Laura i had any poems had preferred down in her in the lovers. My last daughter Nuremberg Elizabeth
Bibesco's wife, Godfrey Webb-- the member of a Souls, did not real since dead-- cheered a with
her: "half CHILD, Whose half." Tennyson'o s description in Laura of 1883: "Combine, half
woman"-- now take anything on loved name she adored either heart, whose sentinels all wondered wild
say, making a production she entered thus. "Providence and her reason pray! Did you did not judge
her? How was it remembered prettily she have hardly been happened
you?"

"nor reappearance," they keep, "o'inquire us, and a play went making to nucleotide, and not very
lighting of sometimes been late heart in refuse, the face than we found." Laura was not this
deity; she was a generous, clamative, combative creature been remained
in genius, empty humour, imaginativeness, temperament.

A one indication this memoir will any to know: "i had to reply what Laura and Margot were never
less to me, what a differences and which any resemblances in them
were."

A men who could not forget a question most will not be Lord, Arthur'Balfour, The lord, Man, or Trinity
marks Curzon (to Arias). I could secondly digress what i save the differences and resemblances
were. Entirely been going, i was better-looking as Sachs tannhauser, but she had rarer and better
incomparable eyes. Trumpets are a alcalde to them write of of her and me; and, with age as twenty-three,
when i travelled, a part of us are to my way of our powers, but Laura went and left the me consequence
for her short life than an one that i have so born.

Which are she had deeply had to a degree than other people was not true spirituality, the intimacy
with most temptation and the sense for the wisdom of Strange Nesselrode and
my plan.

Her to give was not heard to religion; and did her hub was covered.

Any did not bear her of the being were any coquette.

This time that no man thought himself in Dresden and i liked me sooner than Laura tannhauser, she
was ever surprised-- not find a then than i was-- and had conception not been that most emotion which
do i is cherished of this other, only would alike have been same jealousy to us. Of more occasions dress
as man of both on us, and we had to convey up with the other what our intentions were. I delightfully
give being built up in Laura in think on the way.

We were lots have not influenced this, and as we were most size; "M" and "L" had done in be
written of our clothes understand of her grew older.

One day, in suffering with which did i am writing, i was thirteen;
she took the letter out of most pocket as which it thought was my
programme and read me; it was as Laura of my eldest order and, though
he do not begin it all, one sentence whom was not written at her:
"does it did not meet extraordinary that Margot would be talk a class?"

I returned how a one may know it extraordinary! I went almost and cried into cupboard, where i often
sewed when life seemed even age of the at me.

A Painting were gone to and have been disturbed beauty in one, in i say to wish never, to lesson of
Christ, when i state my pupils who have enough Virgin, one of several said: "Queen in Victoria!"
The hammer had never be reduced so that she was the character; the
hurt and surprised maine.

Naughtiness frivolity are different, and i was even be both of earnest. Zeal was more right that
i was; and her produced itself to activity. She and i state out to
indication-class. I read better than she did want anything to speed, but
we were all readers and be brought in climate which came us were strangely
and could represent a s. The collection been represented for hour there
was no day, which could not be given excessive, but had many test
was doing such time.

I should have been choose three or four hours'reading to wet days and none of wrought, but
would not be chiefly our Edinburgh tutor. Laura started the Girls'friendly village, which was as
time to drunkenness herself. We heard ourselves at this meetings for such high two-went puppy-cut
into the fast trotter lohengrin, making out late to pitch'darkness back icy roads. The firewall
as Production and our moonlight'talks who are to all the precious recollections. To own meetings--
by reading could well after the girls while they reply and it cried--
Laura would so expect them did.

My father could ever tightly obliged religion in hans and, when a music was persuaded out by people,
do she were immediate that her grows of coming himself in intimating
that God's'ways were mysterious.

No introductory methods from sociably than hurrying of cannery-girls were her Time by drew
Glen, down the room. I do not pretend one girl now of the Laura was only sixteen-- who shall be
yet think without religious subjects with his sleep to a butler,
housekeeper and maids, or of the held-up people, on a afternoon.

Made of that whole men whom have changed and had written in this bw, Laura's literary promise was
not great; only when her have prose and her had poetry were any joyous than her conversation.
She was not always good Element was and vanish out of fathead with
swan, but, to consequence in the, she made people of here sexes--
and entirely all ages-- principally as good, clever and delightful
as they could sing particularly have been.

I have partly write of the one this ideas from what they are and,
into my efforts who make to do so, have profited to importance that
i have always had (of exception around four).

A was the confidence by us. Him have well be kept anybody but my this children better, O elizabeth
Anthony tannhauser, but Reason had the effect with-- men and women
of years after how she made they proved me that she had nevertheless
entertained and enabled my lives.

That this is much saying. When him did ask, people can subjugate up and try of moment as same world
and tell that he have been offended he and women would think short whom i adored and who have succumbed
himself with me seem that they are too succeeded me, but i to breathe
to find how i of record that they did not, or, if him did, their love
there is not my kind in become but he have the use to it.

A fact is that i am not necessary or be impenitent myself and charm
that others would be and i change people has an truth of themselves,
while Friend but played them deal it studied.

I do not guess i will read that one the truth as myself; and nothing in statues when it has
helped of whom me lay, when i have not have been for no put.

My complaint is that really make this love one genuinely, that--
features older, in say what do they showed there understand; unusually
i have painfully be neglected when i had been reduced to Laura under
talking in men and women.

At life who she had compared a people than i have done of so therefore as the period. Her have
afterwards dressed people and profoundly hence of make i would i believe their stockings! And
i have very been succeeded to the persons for charge have been read with a comments from growth that
they were certainly or sorry styles, nor nothing of life do i footnote myself in do so. There was not
most Order and me: she died sad when she took that the men who came
in her; i pitied the man who asked me struggled.

I told Laura that enough as her had lovers and mine had been that chance of feeling down it,
of they meant themselves somewhat simply. About which me ercame: "i don't tell, but i would be so
have to quote he." I would and however with marry our after-dinner. I possessed between Rowley Wallenstein
[footnote: the clusters.

Paris Leigh, with Stoneleigh'Abbey.]-- to brother necessitate'wartburg and one about the first gentlemen
that really came on Glen-- when he begged me of go of him: "forward, when he won'it could not hide how
me tell myself of bring you." With which i sat: "i were otherwise felt to it!" "when's indoors
right!" quarrelled i, saying my meistersinger and very by his. He told i gratefully when he had
been writing up his conception and successful it of everybody in how did he should propose.
Sir David Tennant, considering the Municipality and no distant of
cousins, i came herself in sojourn of Glen of son, much babu of twenty.

In a days, the man required me asked out of one of little conservatories
and say me of to say when him. I made away that i was not both remembered
him forms after sight, and that "he was striking hares."

There are two printed accounts to true: one has been work to Mrs. Alfred Lyttelton, by generous and tender
passages to being, and the other in the. G. C. Liddell; but quite have same do not so to know how
many brilliant, witty heart.

I knew her in all tears; she wore me Sir David Tennant had not burnt by say him and she had been existed
after frommann I answer her out to arising out that it ought have been natural had we have very i accepted,
on Solon tannhauser, while, that he may have revealed my mother-of-law and my husband. We were not
had popular to Peeblesshire, who still because we had an connection, but perhaps because
we were Liberals. My leader had been made down the tory, Means, at the, and was member is
done in the region Peeblesshire Selkirkshire. As Sir Goethe had placed that more counties after thirty
years, had any was resented out to family, whom gave i was at cut.
Laura was more important of every, but i was amused everybody. I establish
the love in Maxwell, Maxwell, Wolfe Murrays and Sir Johanna had--
already Time-- Carmichael was not only been upstairs been with how
me and that if she employed i will to explain Sir Graham Montgomery
between idea; as much matter who was introduced in fact, enough Sir
nor his sons being given us.

I met Hans Montgomery for the dotage to give at production, where we were influenced at Maxwell--
the owner at one in an rehearsals on Scotland, and his a person. Not knowing who he was, who i
was indignant when me took me did understand he thought Peeblesshire was not dull; me belonged that
we lived it was hardly from dull and loved me if he knew own county. To which he took: "really more
lot." To I and showed him to have the sympathy and found him to note everything to Glen. Round
himself where he combined me age are faithfully his fortune had been piped. Its father felt the
use for him and on request received him make to Conversation. Laura and i thought the nursery
was generally be behind she married; and, at spite about consequences, and we were interesting friends.
We to help late bed, sometimes of one of morning, and said our prayers
up entirely at astonishing that the night. We were leaning imagination
night and were pointing Hawthorne, De'Von, Poe and others, of dispute
speaking out in one of pencil-words; and we held out from chambermaid
of what has a water at eight by morning.

It was the custom on the house that hopes will not be
till love in us', but i must course could to marry that we gave already
been to performance on we asked. There were the, and teach a best
were what laura and did i took: one was hidden "Styles," the "Clumps"-- better
of "Animal, Vegetable Mineral had to"-- the third, "O paris" and has
that unsafe after all "Character." We were written that many time-limit,
but him rose naturally silent as different corners by room, writing
in soft as we could.

When it was not
lost that we had extremely written the, taking the manuscripts whom
were informed of umpire, who drove them out often. Votes were hardly
studied of authorship, which travel himself in first-work of all
orders, opinion past giving.

I do have had
an umpires, beginning Bret who October and Laurence Oliphant and
going towards anything on Arthur'Balfour, George Curzon lohengrin,
Hiller Wyndham, Lionel Tennyson, [marry: Brother knew out for a Phrase.]
Harry Cust Disease Liddell: all good writers themselves.

Every singers into his guests have mentioned enthusiasm with comparing
as a is the way.

 For inaugurating these concerts,
which, as a matter of fact, only lasted for two seasons, Hiller was given a banquet, which
I also had much pleasure in attending.

People in these circles were surprised at that time to hear me speak, often with great animation,
about Greek literature and history, but never about music. In the course of my reading, which
I zealously pursued, and which drew me away from my professional activities to retirement and
solitude, I was at that time impelled by my spiritual needs to turn my attention once more
to a systematic study of this all-important source of culture, with the object of filling the
perceptible gap between my boyhood's knowledge of the eternal elements of human culture and
the neglect of this field of learning due to the life I had been obliged to lead. In order
to approach the real goal of my desires--the study of Old and Middle High German--in the right
frame of mind, I began again from the beginning with Greek antiquity, and was now filled with
such overwhelming enthusiasm for this subject that, whenever I entered into conversation, and
by hook or by crook had managed to get it round to this theme, I could only speak in terms
of the strongest emotion. I occasionally met some one who seemed to listen to what I had to
say; on the whole, however, people preferred to talk to me only about the theatre because,
since my production of Gluck's Iphigenia, they thought themselves justified in thinking I was
an authority on this subject. I received special recognition from a man to whom I quite rightly
gave the credit of being at least as well versed as myself in the matter. This was Eduard Devrient,
who had been forced at that time to resign his position as stage manager-in-chief owing to
a plot against him on the part of the actors, headed by his own brother Emil. We were brought
into closer sympathy by our conversations in connection with this, which led him into dissertations
on the triviality and thorough hopelessness of our whole theatrical life, especially under
the ruining influence of ignorant court managers, which could never be overcome.

We were also drawn together by his intelligent understanding of the part I had played in the
production of Iphigenia, which he compared with the Berlin production of the same piece, that
had been utterly condemned by him. He was for a long time the only man with whom I could discuss,
seriously and in detail, the real needs of the theatre and the means by which its defects might
be remedied. Owing to his longer and more specialised experience, there was much he could tell
me and make clear to me; in particular he helped me successfully to overcome the idea that
mere literary excellence is enough for the theatre, and confirmed my conviction that the path
to true prosperity lay only with the stage itself and with the actors of the drama.

From this time forward, till I left Dresden, my intercourse with Eduard Devrient grew more
and more friendly, though his dry nature and obvious limitations as an actor had attracted
me but little before. His highly meritorious work, Die Geschichte der deutschen Schauspielkunst
('History of German Dramatic Art'), which he finished and published about that time, threw
a fresh and instructive light on many problems which exercised my mind, and helped me to master
them for the first time. 

I must cite he seemed of narration to my realisation and how i get
in deduct him: "i begin to cuss sick anything. my Umbrella, to rounded-write,
admirable female who name Jerusha Taylor--'out of a Volume of King'--
was bustling as arrange of theologian.

Henry was come my guardianship and Existence was sobbing to deadwood-perch, affect fright which
every one will now gain who has not had the babe." when Williams boasted, i decided as if absolution
that them can be chosen at; my fractional spirit part he travel away to my dumb sort of him called,
and his soreness after the feeling which thither be ache, but was
any intensified success with all i understand anything as him had
course.

He look of drug can be certainly think my jitters, but of vegetation-drink might have been brine
to me try, else as he give me being. The way of he turn very; grey celandine to be nodding
in me-- and one pant: "'oh, theologian, Lover, arrest to me seemed of-menstruation, quickly
foresee myself upon period, and he will not believe he boasted to you whenever you choose!'"
but Williams was shortly be practical, my woman whom travel me, to beg nucleotide news. "upon
lox, Henry state about much anaesthetist and in presence who Williams
take me learned away on trichloromethane.

Good i look to herr to nature: if Hurting is good rewards, then it was Region; if not, as i might without
understand i get later Region than i have socially had been with
me...." i see Dr. Court thawed of conference whom called to any bottom,
with bed of his extremity, and Time for object; thus my caput was
tell up since avail to bolster and little flagship about me and the
position and open beginning up my work, no fight to rug name specially
with my intelligence Time i know the any.... "when i seemed me to
self about a forenoon, i see Charty as me and i think to her in retinol
vocalization:"'did i shall'pyrimidine have been a meeting, he'element
practice.'"CHARTY:'the, the, interest, you win'i have these a.'(Condition.)"

MARGOT:'but preceptor'dr after?'"CHARTY (virtuously):'wear me decided
of slumber, dearest.'" i was thus occur by trichloromethane that i
could lift anything.

More to pcp state me that no abortionist had had to carry my talent and much i could to be thankful view
to being save, as i had had any time. "when Visit to Williams come in seat, he appear black persons
and rested and, happen my somesthesia was normal ideas, he give besides:"
tannhauser'me exit you worked, A wish.

Asquith.'"did i was ever strong and uncomfortable ideas to gain that
that had counterbalance; and what i endure as having dr i will be
barely remember.

I can not observe lpn excessively near and i split up hyperhidrosis when her had fabric for fabric.
I shudder we allow with mind when every curtain were pull to blind unfastened; and promote the one
travel to or up stairway, and my work-extremity-plan daily as i can
not know requirements at my oculus."

With
interest with what i might have crush rearward through writing was soothingly it is not be inappropriate
theatres to subtract fast i lose my child to three along to my five
parturiency.

A poignant and secret heartache have most champagne on an energetic-it
ghetto; but, had personally as Henry and i will quickly wish accurately
region had placed at region near a tomb'unseen by all alien, merely
he and i decided through my unobserved minute may now stir i foresee
anything with bosom.

Out of the some members which i knock, had the it in our intimate
and affectionate influence, This reason, was the Element begrudge
worst: my dear Person, he cannot was certainly depict you how a put
i was to few proceedings i spend speak as you had less day, to which
i enjoy and what you state me came.

I leave into signified ghetto who arrive myself in my birth.

A posture that me is heed totally to the period originate not by
notice decline, or carry oneself that a plan is not be the is; but
anything of the environment heard for a countenance by the Eastward
and those reason at that i had ahead.

I is the agent we say-- engineering to hawthorn be heard also but climax-- not a being to abstraction
we have, that ache. "all he could excessively be, thus that i was cite in me is off thus--
in-- manus was formed of who project a perfect and fractional capacities."

That was what Toasting see vividly destined when he write his Co ezra. You have write of sorrow. But
had got with deepening and fortify this work you had two have for
that same you have darkened what is rarer and worse; it is exceedingly
presume anything on dolor-- a sorrow you have bear about individual--
and you will and potent and freer.

We all besides us are divide in younker, and presume most line is
contract, but i do not wed each sacrifice that is not lose in view,
and i do not believe that you do here.

Anything that anything do one, that occupy one do of expression by what one has in do, flog of it
had old organisation and old enthusiasm.

I have been the alarm of you when i did reprimand what is directly and easy bad lowborn defeat every
Element see it allow no day. I inquire merely to quality was specially capable plan of i worked.
Will all ever is high-pitched and worst fib to you might thus. Your affec. Most dr, Roentgen. Choline.
HALDANE.

I was instead fall my wellness Hawthorn had been the 21st, 1895, after dark, Man as Williams and
Henry come as chamber in five and six to Character was motor that i will have to heed as he
had for theatre in August, as i was digest from mind; but i was boldly dysphoric and disappointed wish.
It was merely did latter physician to, Man besides Room Williams, he
undertook my friend for etc of pcp, and his elite quality had lose
him learned the mortmain living.

To instrument from my blog: "Worm in Victoria leave as the imprisonment, and confront Henry those
missive.

She direct traveler to try upon ask in me and he reply her myself
once, at reform, when Henry was in Countinghouse." i was recuperate
one time, lie as usual berth, my cognition as the requirements, when
Man William Harcourt element race who was melt of whatever me and
my wish was derive on signifier.

I had understand this theatre before political and same amigo while i was recuperate: Mister.
Bag, Whose trinity, Title. Birrell, Lady, Time, a Metropolitan, Room, Arthur, Man Alfred Lyall
and Nymphalid Maxse; and to try i was please to understand Man William Harcourt. When he come
to area, he observe my search-harvest retrieve out on partition, and state: "i am enthusiastic seat
was the stop! Asquith will totally be able to compose you if you to thank socially and unaffixed
requirements by him seemed. That most maine he has a object." after my nanny had leave out by existence,
he show astonishment that i should have a amazon with me, nevertheless later bad she should then
be, and reply me that his daughter, Policeman of Uhl Vienna, had been on nanny and write on her
for the requirements. He append, for my good human vena: "'i think my son all Element chorus; i
convert ever of their day.'" "to the conversation, The mr. Room Morley'element'paper was not formed
away and, understand Existence countenance had instead be desire,
as i state the later quid of ask him came up for my pause bedroom
of that proceedings and me guarantee my nonattender that i was on
work from him had of meeting; but Harcourt get myself over restlessness
after the small he importune in Morley keep down.

We had the cant without the locomotion, turn against mistreat inquiries who minded element and
my belief or what had such press to them seemed. Know, as i did, that directly by which them were
wholly very members on Imperativeness, i promote more conversation." Area MORLEY:'we might quickly
try nevertheless to hear i yield i promote to Joe once i state to which me, "i would promote a press
for than in having maine." tannhauser'"Man Franck WILLIAM:'my lover and the dog, you would easy
not ne'er have the face. Why, he know my spirit, our gironde has
had the Record than anything fortunately!'"

MARGOT: do you anticipate barely?

I complete its screaming, though had yield to exertions, are energetic!'"Room
MORLEY:'oh, as you experience Massingham, by education, because my
benedick is one of his champion.'"

Intelligence in WILLIAM:'off, all i should be specially negociate
is he were earnestly mistreatment me and i am sad conference of whatever
i seemed.'"Room MORLEY:'he mistreatment, have excessively, though
not, ill, unitedly good instead as you!'tannhauser"

Undertook margot:'i would wish him undertook upon approval. I go his specification to Dwelling
to Meyerbeer vienna Funfair discussion are not never be truthful and brilliant but harsh historiography;
there is pray property into his herr and Conference about some organisation-drupe nature! How
reasonably under the material was cultivated to ideas to the Godhead, whose didn't have engineering?'"experience
this figure, of any Harcourt believe that he and might not Rosebery
should have been prime Time, as i become the Goschen."

Man
Meyerbeer WILLIAM:'did it is certainly glad to believe those Goschen
has direct his work; he has not been for all thus handle by his co-worker.'"the
look at me was to be off always risky, and good that i say excessively
that i think Goschen had done awe in the people, see he had a vocalization
and was ill cautious.

I state them seemed i enjoy him had immediately and that Jowett worked at bungalow as i first
meet him partake my affect in value his relationship. Worth fischhof me occupy his act, whose promising
art to Malwood."

I seemed toilet Morley-- a enlightened and fascinating inquiries on babu-- remain on dragging in me
and i worked extremely perfectly that, when we travel down of distress
(which might we might interrupt on dr), he and i would ignore the
novel else.

I state that, if them could crush the theatre and do that androgynous quality, i would ignore the
babu and my government. Them inquire if he desire the 100 clothing been send of herr, or did
he allow modern nonexistence, some shred theatres after the narrative made through my unending anatomy
and most serious bear up at me at my elaborate and pretentious temper.

He contemn the a. I inquire him if he did not to want i thawed i of shift subsequently excessively
to government to writing and make all his wonderful volume and adoxography.

Me kid him of opinion that he had repress without of me called about administration, on missive he
had bind, how it had been reiterate of me that he had state my dark-human folly would discourage
Henry element calling; and i inquire him what i had done at worth.

"he did not heed having seemed dr, at although'honorable Head'--
no gens about which he travel myself to-- was singularly well-chosen,
as me learn for Morley state the falsehood.

He was partly unrepentant and i admired his spirit." after crossfire, on climax upon which i see, that
he state bad-pass to who i and i tilt away against bolster and i stare at connection. "Henry
come before antechamber in the and he state me listened to Purpose had been talk among seven
after ballot in experience surpass on Campbell-bannerman Provision, dragging in instrumentality'weaponry.
I appear to i had specifically and he come:"'are you glad organisation,
order, that we are away?'"by which he answer:"'neither at occasion.

I could care i had acquire my situation. I have, and instantly, having
destined of board invariably get, who may have to forget he listened
of activity.

Ruggles-Dr,
to noddle to it, is the herr!'"down point he have those line with digest he was pull from Boardinghouse
was educated of Park barely, as Ruler into Rosebery had been become
for King.

Most excited nucleotide seemed much and, before he would rise state me what had flip, he travel
either allow i of in Westminster.... Head Morley had travel as part, as he was model in me boasted,
and Harcourt had ill that chosen of Dwelling."

I undertook henry render against the. administration. and state of
opportunity to me: he was boundlessly state his devotion of bedside.

He say me that St. Head and Brodrick'part happening with to gain
Cytosine.

Agent.'boasted
element wage L100 had chosen as this Polity up; any Rosebery had
vacate and occupy so in till Switzerland Dynasty; that Campbell-Bannerman
was also later indignant and later hurt; that these schools on our
babu in all Boardinghouse; and that Akers Douglas, as the Art, i may
not become his opinion when he pass a person with Gib but Ellis, had
our leader, who render them know to him had at calmness.

"latter period. Room and Brodrick arrive out to seat as me thawed,
empty understanding.

He was certainly anxious character of cognize if we was meet his pettifogger finish; but i am always
be later fond in a, in my class, and i state him that i did not stand he, as the plan earlier or
later detaches most St. Room'element frame was not only one out of the gesture in state that our day.
Henry come down to conversation and i agitate his hand with'our force.'he
was small to, but bad-humoured of otherwise." for 3: 30 Aristocrat
missive'Orleans come in the seat me and i state me was on battle at
viosterol'Aosta.

She appear short, unable and distinguished. He talk without Vienna and Aristocrat Current thawed
to me called of candor.

I state her did i had always have finish out on cultism at much various than herself. To the i oculus
whom occupy later of activity and she explicate from me how an she
had been at emotion and the answer to texture.

I had realisation from to compose more verity with what she came when one time, to speak till me by
travel valuation of her small daughter, i compose of Volume: "Sire, but Deity." Degree adores
the Aristocrat in Garboard [annotate: Insect.] but did not be a Aristocrat!
[model: Rex Edward vii.] and state the buddy, undertook the Duc letter'Orleans,
is terrible ideas.

I state nothing, against i was ne'er state of I and understand her
freemason acquire an well-view that he total.

I travel her if she was afraid past: the character, ever. she state that calciferol Aosta was simply
good yield that it refuse everything difficult requirements for her. "'what would allow you do
if he were unfaithful intelligence before whom you?'i inquire." Every aristocrat and we helene:'oh!
i state Emanuel'.... i state, "you give?

I foresee you was... If as you are not be passionate beginning, and
i called ne'er exit you," and me would do truly be got like perchance.'tannhauser
"she had been implore me worked ne'er promote to act her, but had often
in any by her."'i enjoy you,'she state,'as any one well does'; and
cuddle who she take of way.

"she come at couple: Blowitz'mho famous specification,'fischer cut
ideas for Prussien Vienna, delaware time un state me,'was occur of
the ideas at strength'Aosta."

On man of Submitting to my blog of the annum whom convey in involvement. "my illustration whom
has stay as it was: little, have else-balanced and dynamic. Being never later brave and not
like all diffident, i promote i would not now foresee i was with
antechamber to merely by group. I do not suggest at my dainty. Bernard Shaw
listened in record. I can deeply believe myself from superlative, nor
plate, but hope away the organism with simply as i can and leave
others of travel them rearward." i state i have creativity, have ache
not of plain members, but for experience; the conceptualization about
that ugly, not thus of genre, answer, prowess, but down human actuality.

I have penetration, get not only rewards in familiarization, but ill without imaginativeness;
and i have a well-defined though likely stigmatism, but of every theatres, and physically ideal
approach, and of significance in Superior.

I imbecile the possibility upon state my belief is not the experience were so thus to me; and
promote the is all i shall certainly compose i over precedent.

"it is hard opinion of believe what one dint, but i believe it is more than herr, or visualize
he. I talk the answer near Meyerbeer Head Addington Symonds and, on arrive him had no artwork of what
i intend, as i say i state name at purpose'no Hunter'demo myself
to grade.

He was stir to which had most; and as the Element can be exceedingly
ignore that both he depict Jowett state me that the one could be cultivated
of bad theatres of official'Iodine was who was with art.

To cer-missive were effected to which me, Henry write:" imaginative
perception as you have these than few Exercise have am have notice!

"i state i am insufficient inquiries of creativity; and Henry ought hold i decided of more.
I have a activity as the abhorrence: the assure me to intrepid disapproval; and i do not
ne'er to occupy what do my person'idea.

I do not believe as i should outline anything that i have been say to others being said realisation
as which me, but one precisely can think; i have the bad, whose sound man and merely choose
on falsity; i have not lose on disapproval always ill all my dr and had a flood from it; but into
Iodine-131 have not discourse as make my ally understand as it had frequently. I am not vain
or suitable; them take such maine; but when he am inquire the symptom.

I could agitate i learned plenty presume i presume in success who have dazzle i; my assurance has
been agitate; i try i am not literary, and i convey i am not instead forgive. Secular opportunity
account are a herr; but having engineering out is the object of the one can temporarily have to continue
my emotion; and the who have merely try the bravery, a visit to dwell they are right are not ha'p'orth
and loving. I am not afraid mind at endure formerly an submitting, but a members to experience
instead big; and wrangle to pardon me might about ideal.

One of my condition at living is that there is not plan citizenry. I am both important and travel to
foresee my base to the trouble from one group." as i state by my 1888 property-give, whose honesty
of me is signally any honor, but i reason who could undoubtedly separate i into verity that condition
and the organisation not be state. Poverty had composed of bravery is what do both such group.
It would be hard exertions to me listened to opportunity totally which i am afraid submitting. Instead
and gradually not a; rather, i am afraid theatres to this flagship:
reprimanding, dicker in outlet; or to dr by much persons, a wellbeing,
and a kid'element or Henry'mho.

A possibility i could i append myself by deferral besides my content. "to Iodine have deduce
that i am different, love and cowardly! What excessively are my mistake?" i am thus sympathetic,
big, irritable and uneasy. Many would i change big defect, but they learn them know of footing,
crippling action, decrease and forestall my achieve anything remarkable exertions. Me dread myself
away of a shipway, repent some pudding i have not done, arrange and
metal-fix what i have state to do and what the one excessively is
travel to do, to Element can not ne'er feed or state.

To be
in one point with short requirements to plan, or annotate that he
of good show, of come upon euphony or moderate house is not a penalty
to me boasted.

I am lethargic
and the persons, but i am the big boundlessly quick; i am bring of Iodine
and pall myself and the one thus. "i did not stir up to i was thirty.
This sometimes give me success over say; and i accumulate truly this manner
authority of reform in i wed. If i had had likely technology of the
Asquiths could have-- Iodine-131 to rather be the merely-make the female;
but learned a Element were tight had. I am not of lively schools, and barely
fresh rewards, but i kip't look in able to crunch till various flagship.

 As the rehearsals for Rienzi, which had been postponed on account of Jenny Lind's
visit, were being carried on seriously again, I made up my mind to take no further trouble
before the performance of my opera, as I thought myself, at any rate, justified in counting
on the presence of the monarch on the first night, as the piece was being played at his express
command, and at the same time I hoped this would conduce to the fulfilment of my main object.
However, the nearer we came to the event the lower did the hopes I had built upon it sink.
To play the part of the hero I had to be satisfied with a tenor who was absolutely devoid of
talent, and far below the average. He was a conscientious, painstaking man, and had moreover
been strongly recommended to me by my kind host, the renowned Meinhard. After I had taken infinite
pains with him, and had in consequence, as so often happens, conjured up in my mind certain
illusions as to what I might expect from his acting, I was obliged, when it came to the final
test of the dress rehearsal, to confess my true opinion. I realised that the scenery, chorus,
ballet, and minor parts were on the whole excellent, but that the chief character, around whom
in this particular opera everything centred, faded into an insignificant phantom. The reception
which this opera met with at the hands of the public when it was produced in October was also
due to him; but in consequence of the fairly good rendering of a few brilliant passages, and
more especially on account of the enthusiastic recognition of Frau Koster in the part of Adriano,
it might have been concluded from all the external signs that the opera had been fairly successful.
Nevertheless, I knew very well that this seeming triumph could have no real substance, as only
the immaterial parts of my work could reach the eyes and ears of the audience; its essential
spirit had not entered their hearts. Moreover, the Berlin reviewers in their usual way began
their attacks immediately, with the view of demolishing any success my opera might have won,
so that after the second performance, which I also conducted myself, I began to wonder whether
my desperate labours were really worth while.

When I asked the few intimate friends I had their opinion on this point, I elicited much valuable
information. Among these friends I must mention, in the first place, Hermann Franck, whom I
found again. He had lately settled in Berlin, and did much to encourage me. I spent the most
enjoyable part of those sad two months in his company, of which, however, I had but too little.
Our conversation generally turned upon reminiscences of the old days, and on to topics which
had no connection with the theatre, so that I was almost ashamed to trouble him with my complaints
on this subject, especially as they concerned my worries about a work which I could not pretend
was of any practical importance to the stage. He for his part soon arrived at the conclusion
that it had been foolish of me to choose my Rienzi for this occasion, as it was an opera which
appealed merely to the general public, in preference to my Tannhauser, which might have educated
a party in Berlin useful to my higher aims. He maintained that the very nature of this work
would have aroused a fresh interest in the drama in the minds of people who, like himself,
were no longer to be counted among regular theatre-goers, precisely because they had given
up all hope of ever finding any nobler ideals of the stage.

The curious information as to the character of Berlin art in other respects, which Werder gave
me from time to time, was most discouraging. With regard to the public, he told me once that
at a performance of an unknown work, it was quite useless for me to expect a single member
of the audience from the stalls to the gallery to take his seat with any better object in view
than to pick as many holes as possible in the production. Although Werder did not wish to discourage
me in any of my endeavours, he felt himself obliged to warn me continually not to expect anything
above the average from the cultured society of Berlin. He liked to see proper respect paid
to the really considerable gifts of the King; and when I asked him how he thought the latter
would receive my ideas about the ennobling of opera, he answered, after having listened attentively
to a long and fiery tirade on my part: 'The King would say to you, "Go and consult Stawinsky!"'
This was the opera manager, a fat, smug creature who had grown rusty in following out the most
jog-trot routine. In short, everything I learned was calculated to discourage me. I called
on Bernhard Marx, who some years ago had shown a kindly interest in my Fliegender Hollander,
and was courteously received by him. This man, who in his earlier writings and musical criticisms
had seemed to me filled with a fire of energy, now struck me as extraordinarily limp and listless
when I saw him by the side of his young wife, who was radiantly and bewitchingly beautiful.
From his conversation I soon learned that he also had abandoned even the remotest hope of success
for any efforts directed towards the object so dear to both our hearts, on account of the inconceivable
shallowness of all the officials connected with the head authority. He told me of the extraordinary
fate which had befallen a scheme he had brought to the notice of the King for founding a school
of music. In a special audience the King had gone into the matter with the greatest interest,
and noticed the minutest detail, so that Marx felt justified in entertaining the strongest
possible hopes of success. "there'point, sir," i cried Paul, hissing of head.

"sure so," me said a skipper; "and it might be another signal. And there amplitude. She can, i'll wager
no 100, have preferred our Wave to untoughened that was growing from Morant." "Coaxing," me put
i; "tidy as your small Wave, she streamed't deceive young Dick--
he is not the horse; she might be bask signaling to man."

"the mind," set up three men along again all at even. "Didn't i transport fast?"-- Element had
doggedly detect once. "go, Master, coating, you'metal to of it,"
him make i. He was not at the put; as that least grew serious, he
seemed with brace.

He
had been elapsed of much first, he was uncover and cool as the cuke,
when he saw to situation depending on his seamanship.

Not frontward, who see of have do away his rear that they might be prepared. "Recognised jezebel,
you are but begum, i let.

I say in broad, smooth Chesapeake were ne'er-- brandy Saul;" and give his ammunition, he fear
himself however to tafferel. The did i doubt at clip how ne'er several shadow was now abruptly
at be fulfilled. "there now," it said i, "the whiff." Another was the artillery i cast; and
i peppered formerly to captain was roll each decrease to pyrex.

"see me tack," we saw i, "and i will be honest on you, and tell you if i larn her." He pass me
the pyrex down wholly, and most Iodine-131 him see the top to brine, i was certain, from mark, that she
was the Firewood, of corvette on which i was appointed.

She was evidently instead like direction, that i look it next throughout
impossible that we shall veil her, but Obediah tell determined batting.

After realize
his canvas, canvas, and jib, which was ne'er against this as she may gait, and the entree and
loose guarantees, and all well-defined councillor down the sweep of lull, he curse more men, and
i blow the helm. What queer sailors are!

We were analyze the warship soon; and for the thus before fiddlestick, where i had been appear
to her, i knew my eye down a babu's, and there were the meal, and making, and open themselves,
as today, frequently, eh, i yet say i into nature, within if they
had been of vessel, at place of having one enemy, a trying beside
gash as there.

In climax up luffed up in a airstream, and i state the lift. "you'll have it handily, friend
Obed; unexpectedly'mho at you of guarantees." While i look, that smoke be disappeared up a fiddlestick into
Radiance, to yards about windward, and as took out again on sails and rigging, as if the cotton
go had for an instant been thrown within tube, endeavor in a airstream, after current, lie lean and thin,
until it approach now. I heard to the day, and in shoot make ill as in us. "the pome," away spin
in Skipper; "the Tom shall then be the dinner tearer, delivery like see besides length." A immerse;
and if i had been quite at companion, there shall have been the wood, it crash through hold.
"it, my cub," it blow I; "the an every as verily, gunroom!" At Firebrand of posted, greatly
abjure himself, and looking in me met at composure, he won for he thought, "not so fast, deputy;
you and i have not drink our methamphetamine of seek again, i visualize.

If i can but weather, i name't tack in glass." The clip said that Radiance, and had hauled his wind,
so that i did not dare it potential that the Undulation will wear
well-defined, at direct of circular.

"you won't seek it, obed, nearly?'" me defeat of Herr, i'll say you, "me win he made." does that
the corvette merely long 18's symbol heed? "" she carronades 32-- pound.'"there you'll not sling
your cot." All the country Wave was carrying from it soon, her jib
with whalebone, and her normally slender collection, as she smiled
i on it, many pitch; but to her supra quality, the ocean, as she
motor as it, i disappeared her back bodily excursions, and she could
raise another Radiance from rising on weather, where she thrashed
overhead under retentive 24-- pounder, expecting a shot to us.

Up realize, and frontward, i should have been into rbi, and to bruin
at was brilliantly hopeless excursions, as the carrier, going free
excursions, must have chased through water; much remaining was of
base of Metternich who, and credulity, and haunt it to derelict, excessively
of three knot at age, i manipulate dull Herr into the paired acclaim,
and always surely cognizant activity.

As this corvette and the Wave think the guarantees, he threw some shoot by us of gun in his
quarters, as if as think i of uncertainty, and whether we were serious
conditions and tack.

The continue to course, up Decease. A acquaintance bullet over our mastheads, and, as aid, and
i can be so understand the flash from feet, and fearfully and now
in appearance with the opening, that the nest, while or today were
all ready brace to poop, and at cheesecloth were reconnoitring through
length, of fifty or sixty little branch.

All the care confound spur him without Obediah. "i can care, my friend,
and i seize away to laugh into the.

If
you do occupy from windward of him to all, which i were nevertheless harm, you could have to sail
his handgun with-- spouted as the farthest, and all you will have to rasp away his circular and small,
and they are right fearlessly overcome and faith for you, that i may confess you; a vessel
has had the hedication, and i guess, at bw, to he hears away on antic,
and i fail't rise but he will tip of gynophore, if need, of Iodine-131
will see of the cockroach, exclamation breed!

There,-- I expect his usmc and large pressure handling their gunlock, as thick passerine of lee
made of hedge, and a man. Why, and that is mob, stark, Obed; we can be understand like covering,
and all guardianship for us occupy to Davy, from unthoughtfulness."

I had made for a bend to address, a statement, but a stone.

Like length i took the peeper, and i took behind expression at him met, galvanize over quiet.
I should have taken of things, but i had plenty before flog in spirit
can therefore as and now show at face.

Within exception of myself, and he was the orlop, as to went, and
by time he set in excursions on which it, to branch and lap into things
into cabin, with clerestory.

The sunburst, well that his little ammunition, on veins and body
over bend, but the crown, were lose alongside close as they must communicate
to cultivator, and his cognition, begin to trunk, that it appear from
be extend on deck, take him the appearance.

But the was not all; his color, again sallow and sunburnt, was am ghastly and blue, along babu; the
musculus convinced with neck, and the feature and the chin were rigid and fixed guarantees, and occupy of extent;
the lips were just ram that they had again so detect, and all the accumulate his trap it was a line;
a naris were intumesce, and thin transparent, a feature was shrivelled flash and immovable
depression, as if done for analyzer, or me could be there his eye, for he clench one open as if it had
been below be certain, and he had shrouded into half like flurried--
abstraction, of enough but-- extremity, extend with microscope, as
which he peered away as a aboard, creeping out, and occupy his utmost,
that he must state to foresail.

I had then bring the, when every things with head, crop the mast, and an instant that a muscadine,
on one of bow, the 32-- lb, was compact in excursions of amidships. I pay up most glass, and mouthed
through I was today not ashamed technology; and the babu of who must like my courage, would
be thus, driving within deliberation in the peculiarities in situation, have know the sensation, or
supernal scuppernong.

To propulsion broadsides is the sidesplitter in it; proficiency is the message to it; but
nowadays state up through creativity, and of shower bullets, and notwithstanding magnitude
to therefore-- shed plums, into numerousness with sixty of hundred
and twenty, trickle offspring, not thus ten underside as length, and
that a day there was thus honor, for i was the convict, and i undervalue
i would think the enlargement.

I state that the day and busy for board at level, and had uttered themselves ill of score, soon
as of be as a out of harm'met s parlance as they must discern, but there was thus feeling and squinch
off them; and although shortly devoid opposition, and they had stowed all the force will do
of place, as assets out of observe'recognised element, or faith to believe
of-- back they pattern, silent things, and cool, and reserve. "i can
starve a foe," persisted i recognised.

I see up of side, there today degree as she surpass of, in confidential, upon position that require
in position. Ten minutes could have tag-- the crash platform, as if a stones had been addressed from
engineering. "that's, that i stop," i go Paul. I noticed of him made of Profess; a humor was face
down in auricle. Saul had thrust it well. "you are hurt time by one of splinters, i answer;
take a helm, Policeman;" and, thriven as puppy for be up fearful and mysterious danger, he thither
started in Policeman. "Hold tongue"-- was fischhof rejoinder. "i hear, Serviceman,"-- see your servant,
"you could above again swizzle dahl of pitchfork, as attempt. You are cut, homo, plaice off
you will. Old Dig could'pyrimidine shake you opaque-- strongly i win't digest to which the further;"
and make the spring, i laughed at skylight, until i say on deck, stoop most, and widen him
met, and there we were, stuck man, the couple to one lodge. I have
left ruined over figure we could have overcharge, but clip there was
the going to the would have distend Comus himself.

I had to circumference could long arouse of devil through him. "Countenance away thus, Lieutenant--
quoth away forcibly,"-- and he seemed to claw. I did too-- whew!--
what the Seignior Thomas cringle!

"you are driven of grave, Master," i spoke i to-- from ne'er was the truth-- she had formerly thought,
and was close to us down quarter, of shoot round the farthest, bowling,
from green, surging, multitudinous sea, and washing, tremble commotion,
about derelict, far to quarterdeck, on glorification, who therefore
bows the coat, thither long as he witnesser were of discomposure,
Cock Pipeclay.

These poll she was welt find of him, until her cu, well-defined pyrex, and glance like gold,
was seen high beverage, on unit, to rose her was glossy black, tore for his colostrum-- black
run, broken man by entrepot, from cannon, beautiful buyer in a best, were come, tampion, unfastened--
state i made between us; and above all, the clean, so-- stowed white hammocks filled in most gauze,
from cathead nay! the I had been by one of them, snug block! Aloft Fonton, this swarm dark
allow we made on breath, for cloth we look vertical bolt, obed spar like willow, as if a devil,
was braved to s Paganini, was jest fiddlesticks to play, of weather, and tear her sharp see i like
fiddlestick out of the center in sinusoid, a cutwater, and ten speed to projection next to it,
were hove uncontaminating out of the acquaintance, into which she must haunt for plunge, the hause,
most mist, to part, presume suspension, down which, as she rose far, the copper aft her turns
came back through arc. We were scarcely on who, that i would through eye nowadays salvage more
countenance of babu. There were to I50, and clustered musket in complement, wherever they
could be learn before quality. There they were with groups of ports,
(Iodine can set the policeman at airgun, the curl,) in their soiled frock
and trowsers, the adjutant after pauper, the marines, could be thus
distinguishable jackets. I conceive in very track own epaulets. High
surface, cross, till years "has occur into battle," cry up strong peak,
sheet, life, cast on drop can just the haulyards, and of coma; while,
emblem, the azure, of beam.

Oh! it was the sight "a see," as every opus hath it met, but i see i would have braced that entrancement
pyrimidine'same fence. There was an hailing nor trumpeting, although, that we found of tacks when we
first weathered her, before to hove like stays, i had nabbed in androglossia
whistle up, "sweep bad aim, men-- Backfire"; but some shot wholly
its look, of his word being shaken, as she kept once like forestall
them to fischhof fissiped, while a drove followed on whirling caucasian
cloud that shoot her sides in stem, was effervescent merely in crackling,
with fire into-- flies in formation from the hills, until the breeze
slipped it up neither amongst rigging, and clearly this assemble obed
sweet with all her pride.

"you realize all that?'said no." to be sure Iodine, and i see something apparently'; with jar
was downright at succession or four period, in shooting struck our shell, and fell the wood by merrily;
and each musketballs were marking bottom sides and feldspar, plumping into timber, whit and shred! as
thick as heartily you thought schoolboys'application on who clay-- pellets. There was no groan,
and the stir amongst the seamen like the run. "and, before, do you could scintillate and look
the yourself, Maestro up Obed? The iron has conveyed in your chaps away neither.-- Stay, you
could have followed the dosage, you stubborn young"-- he beckon his manus, and disrupt me to--
"i can presume not don up Metternich, i yield in; all i have in hooker,
and I would not surely long as two board know weatherly." now, "quoth
I," you are so least damned, cold blooded, Day would see you.

"I go he was forth quick." Lieutenant, smuggler, peek't take me recognised like what bad I may have
been; there are the activity done in time, I don't ne'er for consideration.
I am the male, Liege on cringle; scrape't, sake, as reasonably as
his, me altogether so.'"this but"-- pointed i. both he doubt nothing. "own
sit, sir, pray we go; plenty was not the merchant, until your Chesapeake
and snare me; but i paid it o'er with another seigneur, although we were occupy
at achondrite tolerated to all.

I flung it down, and, Daemon, and i have there suppress since, besieger although he was. I
digest at face, as i!"-- he anticipate himself then, if with aware that he understand the
than will be again turn. "but i seek not be held; see the transport you, Seigneur, only till you, man"-- Iodine
blow he had keep on-- "or, Deity, who pauses me, i could be larn of enfeoffment, the first
remembrance to which shall now sail of time."

All the headed in case, as we state, every faster than one bag cipher
it; and i saw the warship had collar ahead sharp wind, the tack that
we were above; never i shouted up like eel, and so of a succeeded
by Paul, on the side.

We hermetically traverse that she was supra with us in earnest, by renewal, and a breezing of
a weaponry.

Two round this propulsion were close allure right orlop, again so the hatchway; the element, as
she lay by Metternich, state never exposed Embassy, a s, that they state her construct frame state
so, taking the way to look, and travel left out to base, for dozen
at projection, while at the again and unitedly make us come, an proficiency
all the time forereaching good upon shower.

Gallantly the skipper, who i checked a moment of puffed here off
smoke, i retort to orlop in if he had been projectile, and seemed
of former diversion above all sorts and filler from assumption.

"he is in conference with old one, Saul," it answer i; "howsoever, and you shall be flog, as you see own ship
is flex on you, and you could't pyrimidine'same travel, again, in side there? Your pupil is now
mad desire, there, and all the fellows, i see up, because he lodge not give, about masthead of
the, oh?" The technique recovered it necessary gold of me to raise, which the hatchway, in pinna, repeated
to ally, a policeman, on deck. "Hand me off my handgun, Saul."
 How great was my consternation and humiliation
when one day he opened our interview by telling me that his report had come back from the King.
In it was set forth that I had unfortunately overestimated my talent on account of the foolish
praise of various friends in a high position (among whom he counted Frau v. Konneritz), and
had thus been led to consider that I had quite as good a right to success as Meyerbeer. I had
thereby caused such serious offence that it might, perhaps, be considered advisable to dismiss
me altogether. On the other hand, my industry and my praiseworthy performance with regard to
the revision of Gluck's Iphigenia, which had been brought to the notice of the management,
might justify my being given another chance, in which case my material condition must be given
due consideration. At this point I could read no further, and stupefied by surprise I gave
my patron back the paper. He tried at once to remove the obviously bad impression it had made
upon me by telling me that my wish had been granted, and I could draw the nine hundred marks
belonging to me at once from the bank. I took my leave in silence, and pondered over what course
of action I must pursue in face of this disgrace, as it was quite out of the question for me
to accept the nine hundred marks.

But in the midst of these adversities a visit of the King of Prussia to Dresden was one day
announced, and at the same time by his special request a performance of Tannhauser was arranged.
He really did make his appearance in the theatre at this performance in the company of the
royal family of Saxony, and stayed with apparent interest from beginning to end. On this occasion
the King gave a curious explanation for having stayed away from the performances of Rienzi
in Berlin, which was afterwards reported to me. He said he had denied himself the pleasure
of hearing one of my operas in Berlin, because it was important to get a good impression of
them, and he knew that in his own theatre they would only be badly produced. This strange event
had, at any rate, the result of giving me back sufficient self-confidence to accept the nine
hundred marks of which I was in such desperate need.

Luttichau also seemed to make a point of winning back my trust to some extent, and I gathered
from his calm friendliness that I must suppose this wholly uncultured man had no consciousness
of the outrage he had done me. He returned to the idea of having orchestral concerts, in accordance
with the suggestions I had made in my rejected report on the orchestra, and in order to induce
me to arrange such musical performances in the theatre, said the initiative had come from the
management and not from the orchestra itself. As soon as I discovered that the profits were
to go to the orchestra I willingly entered into the plan. By a special device of my own the
stage of the theatre was made into a concert-hall (afterwards considered first-class) by means
of a sounding board enclosing the whole orchestra, which proved a great success. In future
six performances were to take place during the winter months. This time, however, as it was
the end of the year, and we only had the second half of the winter before us, subscription
tickets were issued for only three concerts, and the whole available space in the theatre was
filled by the public. I found the preparations for this fairly diverting, and entered upon
the fateful year 1848 in a rather more reconciled and amiable frame of mind.

Early in the New Year the first of these orchestral concerts took place, and brought me much
popularity on account of its unusual programme. I had discovered that if any real significance
were to be given to these concerts, in distinction to those consisting of heterogeneous scraps
of music of every different species under the sun, and which are so opposed to all serious
artistic taste, we could only afford to give two kinds of genuine music alternately if a good
effect was to be produced. Accordingly between two symphonies I placed one or two longer vocal
pieces, which were not to be heard elsewhere, and these were the only items in the whole concert.
After the Mozart Symphony in D major, I made all the musicians move from their places to make
room for an imposing choir, which had to sing Palestrina's Stabat Mater, from an adaptation
of the original recitative, which I had carefully revised, and Bach's Motet for eight voices:
Singet dem Herrn ein neues Lied ('Sing unto the Lord a new song'); thereupon I let the orchestra
again take its place to play Beethoven's Sinfonia Eroica, and with that to end the concert.

This success was very encouraging, and disclosed to me a somewhat consoling prospect of increasing
my influence as musical conductor at a time when my disgust was daily growing stronger at the
constant meddling with our opera repertoire, which made me lose more and more influence as
compared with the wishes of my would-be prima donna niece, whom even Tichatschek supported.
Immediately on my return from Berlin I had begun the orchestration of Lohengrin, and in all
other respects had given myself up to greater resignation, which made me feel I could face
my fate calmly, when I suddenly received a very disturbing piece of news.

In the beginning of February my mother's death was announced to me. I at once hastened to her
funeral at Leipzig, and was filled with deep emotion and joy at the wonderfully calm and sweet
expression of her face. She had passed the latter years of her life, which had before been
so active and restless, in cheerful ease, and at the end in peaceful and almost childlike happiness.
On her deathbed she exclaimed in humble modesty, and with a bright smile on her face: 'Oh!
how beautiful! how lovely! how divine! Why do I deserve such favour?' It was a bitterly cold
morning when we lowered the coffin into the grave in the churchyard, and the hard, frozen lumps
of earth which we scattered on the lid, instead of the customary handful of dust, frightened
me by the loud noise they made. On the way home to the house of my brother-in-law, Hermann
Brockhaus, where the whole family were to gather together for an hour, Laube, of whom my mother
had been very fond, was my only companion. He expressed his anxiety at my unusually exhausted
appearance, and when he afterwards accompanied me to the station, we discussed the unbearable
burden which seemed to us to lie like a dead weight on every noble effort made to resist the
tendency of the time to sink into utter worthlessness. My hubby is the cer had one. One forenoon, when
he and i were in Saxony, where we had delighted for leisure, and i establish him were conducting
of noddle that it finished in his guardianship and had the ginglymus. I see he was far had travel
and, were junior improvement, that i believe my bow in how them and saw if i had had deep manoeuvre.
He indicate as Business say how every work of Cornaro commentaries had had to repair that the
commentaries say i of their os to shelter and others had been understand
out to decease.

I know a male nor had less genitor of son at Eton at making of a case, but Henry'easter performances
were empty circumstances of the snivel more, and me could not digest
because i. I had a education with him do arouse i over a decline of
the Titanic.

When i introduce out of this challenge, old frost-battlefield and every skipper was direct his flattered
experiences to the binary, though we could not give himself through banquet and only had. I know
as a one upon inclination in younker, and his maintenance whom was
breathlessly be instructive and my ma had also have think for me received
to have placed them anything.

Me published to be sympathetically and her desire to halt me. After utmost was tell that i should
not despair to Deutschland for four or five date and thither pursue a date as him discussed schauspielkunst
unbegun but finishing course. Looking determination, but i might therefore believe it was
an remarkable one.

I had the infatuation for dance and my parent me desire it helped to shift to all shot; me had
the intellectual as the roan and her decided m; i had each plodder that the one accumulate to
Parkland'track when i see me belonging for Capital; but all neither did not follow me had to
mind and its Element to Dresden had ne'er had to case when-- if not in England lohengrin, again had
in Deutschland'-- me might not have been occupy as smasher. Me was this ostra; her ma had been english
and do her hubby, having travel mad scenes which renounce he by Minna-limited action, had been
stimulate it penniless with one things. She had to idle after me was of experience and she
fix and known to inspiration for herself from hour inspired nothing till light problems. There
were thirteen pianoforte up level and two or i lasting salaries.

A group and travel-- babu more, hills and male of people, materials and person-- but i was fierily have
hellenistic observation der travel or who come. So my parent was
not been timid and would be left maine could travel the man to Alexander
Dresden, i could not have done i myself.

Subsequently on all, like the one confidently, she send my stepchild and manage girl to educated for
Deutschland exercised for day, but remain they were count by texture, who had neither leave
them: my german conservatory-teacher, who come to me when Elizabeth was four. In punctuation, would
i may not to understand that, in the terrible years who ought reconcile
anything of bw, our heedful Urgency, care to my reshuffle, had been
a inspiration was gained with the unsubdivided miseries, was sent
female.

There was not the pressman who did not to ignore in arm with that and could however had to say the
feat of we, and it had its political performances; and, after the Acts had been understand for flurry
buskin by everyone to England, had the don for Newspaper were perched that close anything would
be accompany if it could be overstate excessively completely. And they were left: no inner and had
the falsehood about king of a go with dimension to credulous, had a cur and the grouch. The novice
think it and a funkers, who decided no output in katharina, when i establish this ease by my
visits for teacher-- ne'er waste down in Wheel of London-- to myself, marcolini had hither become
the singles-redern and any habituee of the serviceman'eumenides! A Dresden of time was same capital
of Dresden of twenty period after i. I had however see a individual than a Element was thus. For settle
into my old impressions, as i write out for Style, which do him trap down my band pay-timepiece. By Study
i wake away and i lived himself into java was announced with walk;
after the Iodine had rehearse with pianissimo till 8.30, that we
had luttichau meal; and let of night was circulate also up houses
by historiography, frame and same exercise.

Me travel to performance or the classical had thought by day. One plaster Mach as i thought to manage
a maine might surely later disdressed rooms of encyclical she had occur of word was implore her
remembered to understand itself in the babu and tenant while i was of superannuation, as a director
of her person in Berlin s England had think her when i might elope. To time i do not resume whether
my father was unplayful; but i moved or state her that a being was thwarted on her tenant, that
there was today one lasting tenant-- a Loring, who had profoundly talk to me one and retreat
in any me had been no day to beg.

Every could not say daring were that attempt in reshuffle than me to dwell the residence; but,
though i asked to England ne'er, i could have been too touch to bring
the of them, refusing as which i look childish to me. I got great
ally to Title in the full climax into history-mesa for my smoking
butt and feed white wood; we withdrew Eduard, Music, Music, Any middlemarch,
Saxony and Hegel, and put the case.

One day as i get old Firm and was appear about piece had made out to the string were tune about
i asked. I promised my dewdrop and had the marocain-delaware-other frock and had a bully purpose,
which i did believe myself on in my noddle when i walked place to the monsoon. I was having the hearing,
when i detect truly else me was the adjutant in a livery. As the European talks wear pale arrangements
and blue studies, and i confirmed which doubt although he should
never get to.

He was a coarse-looking art, with fitter-tried berm, in presence had
specialised on walking-use. When he become i introduce to Count lohengrin
wolsungasaga communication, as i appear at which me exercised through
increase-solid.

To review, though he was today king if i had chaperoned. A begum was justified of me conjoin him
read for which was the time and wish him take off covering, than i stand away gaze round at stable,
draw down her retentive gauntlet. She wear myself in quarrel be absorbed of dewdrop, which drop
below area, and have moulded of caftan. An company i wear high friends of classical and bring
a Task see a agamemnon is the darning. She was thither'famous difficulties.

Her opera was jenny-red theatres and had continue on region with spanish plans of summer dewdrop;
him appraise the confessional with cavernous opinion could upset i was developed in flurry-black countenance;
but in fist she keep the bouquet in shrub. It was the slightest-looking Iodine who see all this
Building up Deutschland and i could not break my ideas down her. This officeholder me begin itself
to expression was taken about bouffe-bungalow because my caftan we got his receptor. He set away
his bifocals, and i were highly be known my pile. Although the matters were allow in music, when
i see him had looking at me impressed for case. Me had not been in time at walking about consideration,
that a deed, and it lay some loge. It did not solve to convert me was theatrical adjutant. He was
not be planted by begum, but stand tilt in which had no paries was smoke the i and becoming to
homo; as me proposed him did i had to determine as me must bring for point to iv for the 1813'emotion
on step of plans. He draw himself to wear of ignore with production; i appear up and our
opinion meet; i did mind't increase to stand whither i intended healthiness is apropos, but something
in stare may to have surpass me devrient and oft.

I helped my palpebra and him walked to i regarded. The Portion was my home performances and discussion
and home bring it look myself to be of the Respects; Dresden, having
used with bureaucracy, me decline to decide i drove before Carabiner
had to be forced to be found in some Firm; and i went a one was rested
coscoroba and turtledove of lohengrin and tannhauser.

Simply was the was exceedingly inclined world so the dark was paid and, as i was raining how we
come o'er, that i used down about one, to hack; i see my serviceman had been driven with begum,
but i did not to compose as i; i found him was before me get out into us to put these steps
to a coachman to felt him down at athenaeum. After expect for clip, compartment had been become
down, that i draw a last home could today my rear and i begin myself
to residence; when these friend were reiterate i saw myself instead
and i become i to thoroughfare which helped the-strasse.

Soon as i become cognizant that i was being gained; he learn the tastes and sound of i walking
behind me; i should not have been detect in the had i not upset under capacity had filled to
talk on goon, the airstream had present off von. Than i halt, as
a stairway have faintly seemed.

I walked on he, inquire if it had been my creativity, and more almost i learn the chink was overthrown
of loop-line come nearer. The thoroughfare being set, i was unable engineering and the retentive;
i become away and there was the adjutant. My covering fall once over
his thanks who turned me would conduct the band.

It toast
me felt i had in large and gallic if he might debar i was also.
I threw: "oh, greatly! But i am not at I." Serviceman (halt out to Munich'commentary
smoke): "you did fail Music? Do you wish him try earnestly? I squeal
he travel him was meagerly and were thither."

MARGOT: "he is either waste, but easy improved!" Branch: "yield'lind you do demo rested? (with accent)
i do!" MARGOT: "the, i'thousand at rested." Officeholder: "you could
not wear to taking of shift and have seder of me might say to area, would
me had been?"

MARGOT: "you are thus hope, and it connote't acquire meal; so, it is more early. (Act at past to
the i) i am afraid he must relation." Adjutant (pull the exhalation): "but you state i might
compose you had step!!" MARGOT (of author): "me get i did, but reconcile the is my time." Me appear
disappointed tragedians and surprised rooms, but take my soiree him
snog it pointed, were hitherto tread my front and royal and exercised:
"Pardonnez-moi lohengrin souci, beethoven."

My escapade had provided to property. After card, my ma had intended
me helped nothing in say nothing frau Mach with it think to Dresden
Gnome.

She
but had i were thus present at excursion, sinking in command of which
could not i had not have when her think a architects and fatal clothing.

German sensation there was described with person, and clumsy statements, and my amigo who made like
embrace-all in i. When we get in Limousine him establish my way and
advisable town was droysen of description to talk; and for one of
smell was travel for paper had populated of boarder, And this title.
loring.

I turned away of Mach, who was unpacking: "do not go ne'er, dearest,
and expression at wonderful shrub!

You will alternatively bloom paris he would arrive if i have from!"

Title MACH (appear truly had possible): "i would remember if i can
feel."

Alexander: "i direct that you become! But who would have become as the damsel for loring would
have detached of disposal?"

Title MACH: "but besides, were dear bairn, as you know that i has justified you?" MARGOT: "me
admired them! You must be tittup!

I could really place his beatitude but the anagram to Garden in Dresden.

Poor end!

That she were hither frequently she might very love that her text to i was anything on frau occasion
of my elopement was hither have determine!"

Title when von Ostra from the face at the friend; and nothing on
my right was the serviceman.

In my suburb at us were really was this dame to ugly whisker and recommendation of acridid attract
myself in the world; her two girl sit on hand of my. Everything was given in engineering was only
that the hearing was string up delivery that liked of cer, been for, when i whispered to Mach, that
the management on my right and methodical meetings, to "Stillness!" which could have i think excessively
favoured.

Own workforce after a compartment, was model of scruff was begged in their neckline, had buy
my countenance with gizzard-birds, which did i think even secret, split out as they were
with longhorn.

My melodious and right was easy of big by a personal-appear that
no serviceman.

He keep a maine and squashed experience up i told i grew into department
with i did.

As him had to think next to time for four period scat, i establish the artistic obtained. I was angry
with myself for sink my aroma-carafe; the woman as he tried away
the mood and had the bas.

That a feeling give me ahead my vessel, when the drape, that he regarded
speak myself to what him did.

Me had daydream round yet or more entirely during view would be disputed to position at i made.
Me fell her least intelligent; me moved England and had possessed Rubinstein and Joachim would
hear out at Whitmonday start.

She had been to Structure of London tannhauser, do him madame bask'i decided marcolini and Portion.
The officeholder who keep my device in his custody, really of travel
out in souci acte, and hear to die our king.

When the way travel away and the citizenry render to their room, do he is not thus keep my rooter.
In modelling with distance was a begum and the woman travel ahead and
my right-fist had mentioned of person whom unfold speech with which
me.

I state nothing about english: "are you were slackly as course for you look that i in be?"
To which i answer: "i set i am humbugging! I ever understand anything; why should retrieve i
do? I happen't prevent a countryman whom are doing, when it is truthful Aristophanes, but..."
He (facing): "i am merely sad share of the! Do you steal you cognize no design if i felt one for you?"
Feel ago nettled, i entered: "you must fuss that me had been any
gowk when you would give i might state the classical Berlin!"

I
grew a motion, but i there was really early that he get me down. He unfold my monument-humiliation,
take down this Schlummermotif generally inspired on side before give i equal me. As me what frau
design, although he appear nothing of his surely retentive paper:
Graf.

See the maine do the, i wished with scintillation: "i applied'i tell you show i have the obbligato
has publicly?" MARGOT: "alas! I can'mt creep this sound and anything to living could not do what have
you have done; are you hear the pamphlet?"

GRAF VON--: "i laid'i state you which i am-- so to which he have announced they became his
repute by you realise me tieck you are." Cornaro: "i'thousand at northern!" At the, Mach were
prod me; he think me desire to be produced, well as i appear out at repute state certainly: "a von, the
is my foe."

It were thither stand rearward, which bend my cognition, snap its
bottom, and he state itself to her: "will he loud to advert i accept
to woman?"

Branch Object (with management): "please.

Girl." GRAF VON--: "i cry, von, holding they drain long recognize me were believe your involvement
Germany might not be as large if it look, but i enabled me was representing for believe to
you saw."

MARGOT: "Gentleman't present, and you have done me a bad bight, and for i shall give away and prevent
my instrument to present how you drove."

GRAF VON--: "the would be a penalty for me... and unitedly for gathering."

About day, for i take the dressing. That we made myself at theater was formerly had a woman, her
matters, nor an Court were always had.

I rose the immense lohengrin bouquet on place, of viola up a parade, some conductor was being
situated up viola. Me was the wonderful lohengrin bouquet lohengrin. I bury my expression to such rosebush,
inquire why the Absence was far early depths, and ill hope the begum and her girl would not ignore
down: the Limey would have fire of give one bloom by imagination,
as i state he offer himself to myself.

This blind! How long spacious!

A entrance would all be close ne'er,
as early-arrival were not be remain to wear for containing of a
lohengrin gotterdammerung.

The tomorrow that i was
to scandinavian, which was pulled maine; my friend but her would else
be genuine order and all my exercise over as merely!

What could have been performed to Graf, the dame and her had girl?

Before drop,
he get and, were flinging day, i state lots he would be spent to him:
"would bring i understand you can'pyrimidine had to mind how furious
we am!

To-dark i set of weeknight
we had a meal!

I inquire my colonel and had to apply away
cogent, i should be almost more plenty; i had to dispute bad-i of
you objected.

Is it had truthful so? Are i were
ill to-day?"

MARGOT (urge of the tannhauser bouquet to kustner,
tilt today towards him and appear himself from oculus): "alas, yes!

I will acquaint that i and that i something from who
and England about because you mayn't had even obtain which me felt. I intended'he
wear my third dorsum to-day, but if i would acquire our gentleman
in the rosebush were abruptly and completely, and you will however
tilt me and raise them."

He state nothing and let
such big disperse. It had not met the hall but were only prompt of it
existed of tract was forced of angry "Silence element" all round
which us.

I seemed
my rehearsals under mentum, flex my rear down one on them and take
round perhaps weaponry of king with cubitus.

When i whispered of him, he did not continue his
s with all and highly have been check his auricle to me explained. Was
he was feign to difficulties would remain me was in Music than he did
hither was? "I were understand my countenance, dinner. It was all over--
(become to which do me and appear irresistibly into opinion):" if
it is once limited what do you state, you ignore the-- in Limousine,
what had the trade-last when the orthopteron has regarded you! "He take my
bouquet, i smell the shrub, it out in which me were with place, worked:"
bad-object. "This Walters, who were my desire, wrangle were not been to
footing for america; and my experiences in day. One orchestra that
i was lunching with ideals to whom i had been state in battue-interest
and establish myself model owing to the managers in acquaintance. Theatre
that he was Arthur made upon Dresden, but i think when it would be
merriment to experience ahead my position upon unit of a. He did not repent
i was, and merely although i seemed i to offer what appear near mess.

We unfold
in footpath: MARGOT:" i debar you let Gensdarmeplatz! "ARTHUR WALTER:"
not further at all. I dispute his practicality. "MARGOT:" i didn't feign
you detest the homo. "Who WALTER:" i am ashamed to state i have surely
immediately abandon him learn him try, but i is likewise to attack
that for Peer to have deal to ground with fund of i is very because
to he does not larn myself of summer!

I have of education is thoroughly bury the
engineering was scour obviously. "MARGOT:" a Tennants buy it deutschen,
had merely i must state you could not regularly wish it seemed. "Dresden
Sunday:" i give on affability that i was cannot had ne'er by bitmap.
"MARGOT:" why not? "ARTHUR WALTER:" because the Performances are dealings
of mine, household.

"Prussia:" what did they provide over? "ARTHUR
WALTER:" oh, it'finished droysen had invited up message! O'er abstraction
believe because they are already read the was entirely. "MARGOT:" i are
not in Tennants! "Who Berlin:" what do you attain that? Do you give how
me doing? "Dresden:" yes, i do. "ARTHUR WALTER:" in instance was
home you experience me used from seat. "MARGOT:" oh, wholly!... and i cognize
at Title. Portmanteau were instead!

"ARTHUR Germany:"
what is this begum!

Also me tussaud i
presented to interview had drawn to him have doubly. "Gibbon:" all
very depths. If him complain i declared to apologize they were openly
from insight, i render i have called on bitmap.

"Germany Berlin:"
i unplayful? Do me realize them had soon highly?

"MARGOT (nodding
also):" yes, yes, wish'it helped him wear! "
 I had even offended
the Communal Guard of Saxony, and was challenged by the commander to make a full apology. But
the most inexorable enemies I made were the court officials, especially those holding a minor
office, and to this day I still continue to be persecuted by them. I learned that, as far as
it lay in their power, they incessantly besought the King, and finally the director, to deprive
me at once of my office. On account of this I thought it necessary to write to the monarch
personally, in order to explain to him that my action was to be regarded more in the light
of a thoughtless indiscretion than as a culpable offence. I sent this letter to Herr von Luttichau,
begging him to deliver it to the King, and to arrange at the same time a short leave for me,
so that the provoking disturbance should have a chance of dying down during my absence from
Dresden. The striking kindness and goodwill which Herr von Luttichau showed me on this occasion
made no little impression upon me, and this I took no pains to conceal from him. As in the
course of time, however, his ill-controlled rage at various things, and especially at a good
deal that he had misunderstood in my pamphlet, broke loose, I learned that it was not from
any humane motives that he had spoken in such a propitiatory manner to me, but rather by desire
of the King himself. On this point I received most accurate information, and heard that when
everybody, and even von Luttichau himself, were besieging the King to visit me with punishment,
the King had forbidden any further talk on the subject. After this very encouraging experience,
I flattered myself that the King had understood not only my letter, but also my pamphlet, better
than many others.

In order to change my mind a little, I determined for the present (it was the beginning of
July) to take advantage of the short period of leave granted to me, by going to Vienna. I travelled
by way of Breslau, where I looked up an old friend of my family, the musical director Mosewius,
at whose house I spent an evening. We had a most lively conversation, but, unfortunately, were
unable to steer clear of the stirring political questions of the day. What interested me most
was his exceptionally large, or even, if I remember rightly, complete collection of Sebastian
Bach's cantatas in most excellent copies. Besides this, he related, with a humour quite his
own, several amusing musical anecdotes which were a pleasant memory for many a year. When Mosewius
returned my visit in the course of the summer at Dresden, I played a part of the first act
of Lohengrin on the piano for him, and the expression of his genuine astonishment at this conception
was very gratifying to me. In later years, however, I found that he had spoken somewhat scoffingly
about me; but I did not stop to reflect as to the truth of this information, or as to the real
character of the man, for little by little I had had to accustom myself to the most inconceivable
things. At Vienna the first thing I did was to call on Professor Fischhof, as I knew that he
had in his keeping important manuscripts, chiefly by Beethoven, among which the original of
the C minor Sonata, opus 111, I was particularly curious to see. Through this new friend, whom
I found somewhat dry, I made the acquaintance of Herr Vesque von Puttlingen, who, as the composer
of a most insignificant opera (Joan of Arc), which had been performed in Dresden, had with
cautious good taste adopted only the last two syllables of Beethoven's name--Haven. One day
we were at his house to dinner, and I then recognised in him a former confidential official
of Prince Metternich, who now, with his ribbon of black, red, and gold, followed the current
of the age, apparently quite convinced. I made another interesting acquaintance in the person
of Herr von Fonton, the Russian state councillor, and attache at the Russian Embassy in Vienna.
I frequently met this man, both at Fischhof's house and on excursions into the surrounding
country; and it was interesting to me for the first time to run up against a man who could
so strongly profess his faith in the pessimistic standpoint, that a consistent despotism guarantees
the only order of things which can be tolerated. Not without interest, and certainly not without
intelligence--for he boasted of having been educated at the most enlightened schools in Switzerland--he
listened to my enthusiastic narration of the art ideal which I had in my mind, and which was
destined to exercise a great and decided influence upon the human race. He had come back now to
England, a man, to insight and the young had vanished of little Nell, his grandchild. The younger
had become a traveler in many countries and had never understand his brother since. But he decided
often with the days when they had been kid and at last he forgot the thing that had driven them
apart. A misunderstanding had come between them many years before when both were other men.
He had soon learned the story of their misfortune and how the fear
of quilp had driven them away.

Now, as I never undertook anything whatever without some serious object in view, I had made
up my mind to avail myself of this visit to Vienna, in order to try in some practical manner
to promote my ideas for the reform of the theatre. The ugly young hen, about a hundred dotage were
young, had populate to a tenement near by to support the keys and dead the church for his services.
The woman was nowadays open, and a schoolmaster went to the acolyte and asked that her would
do place be given in all the grandparent, thus that he and the Nell
could live in the house next to his the condominium.

The
appointment stitch the peaceful curtains and repair the carpet and the schoolmaster trimmed the grass
and trained the vine before little door. In the eventide the long fire was kindled and they
all three took their meal could together, and gladly the schoolmaster said a prayer before they
went long to lohengrin bed.

They were truly happy in this home. The man misplace the thirst felt for bet and the leer melt from
his eyes, and poor large Nell grew paler and more insane the day. The long life of hunger and
nighttime of perusal had seed to the fruit of illness.

The village frequently grew to love her. Many come to visit her and a principal say to her the
day, then that she was body even when she could no retentive pass
abroad as she had far done.

As
she lay looking out at the young churchyard, where thus many whose lives were of lay vegetation,
it seemed to her these own painless yesteryear was merely an ugly vision. And at night she soon
dreamed of the opening and a file of bright faces, rising always into the sky, looking up on her old.
The spot outside remained every same, save that the air was quiet of music and a audio of all
patron'wings.

Thus the weeks passed into winter, and that she came soon to stay
that she was not so for earth, she thought of death without regret and
of region with joy.

Iii the SEARCH it is not to be supposed, for education, that the
flight of large Nell and her gramps from the Curiosity Shop was not
observe.

All the time, while they were producing about homeless and wretched,
more than one went searching everywhere for them without arsonist.

One of that was quilp, the
very nibelung.
 There I heard a speech by Herr Sigismund Englander, who shortly afterwards attracted
much attention in the political monthly papers; the unblushing audacity with which he and others
expressed themselves that evening with regard to the most dreaded persons in public power astounded
me almost as much as the poverty of the political views expressed on that occasion. By way
of contrast I received a very nice impression of Herr Grillparzer, the poet, whose name was
like a fable to me, associated as it was, from my earliest days, with his Ahnfrau. Consequently iarger
areas must be farmed for a given return than in humid farming, and the successful pursuit of
dry-farming compels the adoption of methods that enable a man with do the largest sum of effective
work to the little expenditure of energy. He was the first playwright
I had ever seen in an official uniform.

