THE HOUSE OF RIMMON

A Drama in Four Acts

by

HENRY VAN DYKE

[Frontispiece: "Behold the sacrifice!  Bow down, bow down!"]

New York Charles Scribner's Sons 1908 Copyright, 1908, by Henry Van Dyke All rights reserved
Published in October

THE HOUSE OF RIMMON

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

  BENHADAD:  King of Damascus.

  REZON:  High Priest of the House of Rimmon.

  SABALLIDIN:  A Noble of Damascus.

  HAZAEL   )
  IZDUBHAR ) Courtiers of Damascus.
  RAKHAZ   )

  SHUMAKIM:  The King's Fool.

  ELISHA:  Prophet of Israel.

  NAAMAN:  Captain of the Armies of Damascus.

  RUAHMAH:  A Captive Maid of Israel.

  TSARPI:  Wife to Naaman.

  KHAMMA )
  NUBTA  ) Attendants of Tsarpi.

  Soldiers, Servants, Citizens, etc., etc.

SCENE: Damascus and the Mountains of Samaria.

TIME: 850 B. C.

ACT I

SCENE I

Night, in the garden of NAAMAN at Damascus.  At the left, on a slightly raised terrace, the
palace, with softly gleaming lights and music coming from the open latticed windows.  The garden
is full of oleanders, roses, pomegranates, abundance of crimson flowers; the air is heavy with
their fragrance: a fountain at the right is plashing gently: behind it is an arbour covered
with vines.  Near the centre of the garden stands a small, hideous image of the god Rimmon.
Back of the arbour rises the lofty square tower of the House of Rimmon, which casts a shadow
from the moon across the garden.  The background is a wide, hilly landscape, with a high road
passing over the mountains toward the snow-clad summits of Mount Hermon in the distance.  Enter
by the palace door, the lady TSARPI, robed in red and gold, and followed by her maids, KHAMMA
and NUBTA.  She remains on the terrace: they go down into the garden, looking about, and returning
to her.

KHAMMA:
  There's no one here; the garden is asleep.

NUBTA:
  The flowers are nodding, all the birds abed,
  And nothing wakes except the watchful stars!

KHAMMA:
  The stars are sentinels discreet and mute:
  How many things they know and never tell!

TSARPI: [Impatiently.]
  Unlike the stars, how many things you tell
  And do not know!  When comes your master home?

NUBTA:
  Lady, his armour-bearer brought us word
  An hour ago, the master will be here
  At moonset, not before.

TSARPI:
  He haunts the camp
  And leaves me much alone; yet I can pass
  The time of absence not unhappily,
  If I but know the time of his return.
  An hour of moonlight yet!  Khamma, my mirror!
  These curls are ill arranged, this veil too low,--
  So,--that is better, careless maids!  Withdraw,--
  But warn me if your master should appear.

KHAMMA:
  Mistress, have no concern; for when we hear
  The clatter of his horse along the street,
  We'll run this way and lead your dancers down
  With song and laughter,--you shall know in time.

[Exeunt KHAMMA and NUBTA, laughing.  TSARPI descends the steps.]

TSARPI:
  My guest is late; but he will surely come!
  Hunger and thirst will bring him to my feet.
  The man who burns to drain the cup of love,--
  The priest whose greed of glory never fails,--
  Both, both have need of me, and he will come.
  And I,--what do I need?  Why everything
  That helps my beauty to a higher throne;
  All that a priest can promise, all a man
  Can give, and all a god bestow, I need:
  This may a woman win, and this will I.

[Enter REZON quietly from the shadow of the trees.  He stands behind TSARPI and listens, smiling,
to her last words.  Then he drops his mantle of leopard-skin, and lifts his high-priest's rod
of bronze, shaped at one end like a star, at the other like a thunderbolt.]

REZON:
  Tsarpi!

TSARPI:
      The mistress of the house of Naaman
  Salutes the keeper of the House of Rimmon.

[She bows low before him.]

REZON:
  Rimmon receives you with his star of peace;

[He lowers the star-point of the rod, which glows for a moment with rosy light above her head.]

  And I, his chosen minister, kneel down
  Before your regal beauty, and implore
  The welcome of the woman for the man.

TSARPI: [Giving him her hand, but holding off his embrace.]
  Thus Tsarpi welcomes Rezon!  Nay, no more!
  Till I have heard what errand brings you here
  By night, within the garden of the man
  Who hates you most and fears you least in all Damascus.

REZON: [Rising, and speaking angrily.]
  Trust me, I repay his scorn
  With double hatred,--Naaman, the man
  Whom the King honours and the people love,
  Who stands against the nobles and the priests,
  Against the oracles of Rimmon's House,
  And cries, "We'll fight to keep Damascus free!"
  This powerful fool, this impious devotee
  Of liberty, who loves the city more
  Than he reveres the city's ancient god:
  This frigid husband who sets you below
  His dream of duty to a horde of slaves:
  This man I hate, and I will humble him.

TSARPI:
  I think I hate him too.  He stands apart
  From me, ev'n while he holds me in his arms,
  By something that I cannot understand,
  Nor supple to my will, nor melt with tears,
  Nor quite dissolve with blandishments, although
  He swears he loves his wife next to his honour!
  Next?  That's too low!  I will be first or nothing.

REZON:
  With me you are the first, the absolute!
  When you and I have triumphed you shall reign;
  And you and I will bring this hero down.

TSARPI:
  But how?  For he is strong.

REZON:
        By these, the eyes
  Of Tsarpi; and by this, the rod of Rimmon.

TSARPI:
  Speak clearly; tell your plan.

REZON:
        You know the host
  Of the Assyrian king has broken forth
  Again to conquer us.  Envoys have come
  From Shalmaneser to demand surrender.
  Our king Benhadad wavers, for he knows
  His weakness.  All the nobles, all the rich,
  Would purchase peace that they may grow more rich:
  Only the people and the soldiers, led
  By Naaman, would fight for liberty.
  Blind fools!  To-day the envoys came to pay
  Their worship to our god, whom they adore
  In Nineveh as Asshur's brother-god.
  They talked with me in secret.  Promises,
  Great promises!  For every noble house
  That urges peace, a noble recompense:
  The king, submissive, kept in royal state
  And splendour: most of all, honour and wealth
  Shall crown the House of Rimmon, and his priest,--
  Yea, and his priestess.  For we two will rise
  Upon the city's fall.  The common folk
  Shall suffer; Naaman shall sink with them
  In wreck; but I shall rise, and you shall rise
  Above me!  You shall climb, through incense-smoke,
  And days of pomp, and nights of revelry,
  Glorious rites and ecstasies of love,
  Unto the topmost room in Rimmon's tower,
  The secret, lofty room, the couch of bliss,
  And the divine embraces of the god.

TSARPI: [Throwing out her arms in exultation.]
  All, all I wish!  What must I do for this?

REZON:
  Turn Naaman away from thoughts of war;
  Or purchase him with love's delights to yield
  This point,--I care not how,--and afterwards
  The future shall be ours.

TSARPI:
        And if I fail?

REZON:
  I have another shaft.  The last appeal,
  Before the king decides, is to the oracle
  Of Rimmon.  You shall read the signs!
  A former priestess of his temple, you
  Shall be the interpreter of heaven, and speak
  A word to melt this brazen soldier's heart
  Within his breast.

TSARPI:
        But if it flame instead?

REZON:
  I know the way to quench that flame.  The cup,
  The parting cup your hand shall give to him!
  What if the curse of Rimmon should infect
  That wine with sacred venom, secretly
  To work within his veins, week after week
  Corrupting all the currents of his blood,
  Dimming his eyes, wasting his flesh?  What then?
  Would he prevail in war?  Would he come back
  To glory, or to shame?  What think you?

TSARPI:
          I?
  I do not think; I only do my part.
  But can the gods bless this?

REZON:
        The gods can bless
  Whatever they decree; their will makes right;
  And this is for the glory of the house
  Of Rimmon,--and for thee, my queen.  Come, come!
  The night grows dark: we'll perfect our alliance.

[REZON draws her with him, embracing her, through the shadows of the garden.  RUAHMAH, who
has been sleeping in the arbour, has been awakened during the dialogue, and has been dimly
visible in her white dress, behind the vines.  She parts them and comes out, pushing back her
long, dark hair from her temples.]

RUAHMAH:
  What have I heard?  O God, what shame is this
  Plotted beneath Thy pure and silent stars!
  Was it for this that I was brought away
  Captive from Israel's blessed hills to serve
  A heathen mistress in a land of lies?
  Ah, treacherous, shameful priest!  Ah, shameless wife
  Of one too noble to suspect thy guilt!
  The very greatness of his generous heart
  Betrays him to their hands.  What can I do?
  Nothing,--a slave,--hated and mocked by all
  My fellow-slaves!  O bitter prison-life!
  I smother in this black, betraying air
  Of lust and luxury; I faint beneath
  The shadow of this House of Rimmon.  God
  Have mercy!  Lead me out to Israel.
  To Israel!

[Music and laughter heard within the palace.  The doors fly open and a flood of men and women,
dancers, players, flushed with wine, dishevelled, pour down the steps, KHAMMA and NUBTA with
them.  They crown the image with roses and dance around it.  RUAHMAH is discovered crouching
beside the arbour.  They drag her out before the image.]

NUBTA:
        Look!  Here's the Hebrew maid,--
  She's homesick; let us comfort her!

KHAMMA: [They put their arms around her.]
  Yes, dancing is the cure for homesickness.
  We'll make her dance.

RUAHMAH: [She slips away.]
  I pray you, let me go!
  I cannot dance, I do not know your measures.

KHAMMA:
  Then sing for us,--a song of Israel!

RUAHMAH:
  How can I sing the songs of Israel
  In this strange country?  O my heart would break
  With grief in every note of that dear music.

A SERVANT:
  A stubborn and unfriendly maid!  We'll whip her.

[They circle around her, striking her with rose-branches; she sinks to her knees, covering
her face with her bare arms, which bleed.]

NUBTA:
  Look, look!  She kneels to Rimmon, she is tamed.

RUAHMAH: [Springing up and lifting her arms.]
  Nay, not to this dumb idol, but to Him
  Who made Orion and the seven stars!

ALL:
  She raves,--she mocks at Rimmon!  Punish her!
  The fountain!  Wash her blasphemy away!

[They push her toward the fountain, laughing and shouting.  In the open door of the palace
NAAMAN appears, dressed in blue and silver, bareheaded and unarmed.  He comes to the top of
the steps and stands for a moment, astonished and angry.]

NAAMAN:
  Silence!  What drunken rout is this?  Begone,
  Ye barking dogs and mewing cats!  Out, all!
  Poor child, what have they done to thee?

[Exeunt all except RUAHMAH, who stands with her face covered by her hands.  NAAMAN comes to
her, laying his hand on her shoulder.]

RUAHMAH: [Looking up in his face.]
        Nothing,
  My lord and master!  They have harmed me not.

NAAMAN: [Touching her arm.]
  Dost call this nothing?

RUAHMAH:
        Since my lord is come.

NAAMAN:
  I do not know thy face,--who art thou, child?

RUAHMAH:
  The handmaid of thy wife.  These three years past
  I have attended her.

NAAMAN:
        Whence comest thou?
  Thy voice is like thy mistress, but thy looks
  Have something foreign.  Tell thy name, thy land.

RUAHMAH:
  Ruahmah is my name, a captive maid,
  The daughter of a prince in Israel,--
  Where once, in olden days, I saw my lord
  Ride through our highlands, when Samaria
  Was allied with Damascus to defeat
  Asshur, our common foe.

NAAMAN:
        O glorious days,
  Crowded with life!  And thou rememberest them?

RUAHMAH:
  As clear as yesterday!  Master, I saw
  Thee riding on a snow-white horse beside
  Our king; and all we joyful little maids
  Strewed boughs of palm along the victors' way;
  For you had driven out the enemy,
  Broken; and both our lands were friends and free.

NAAMAN: [Sadly.]
  Well, they are past, those noble days!  The friends
  That fought for freedom stand apart, rivals
  For Asshur's favour, like two jealous dogs
  That snarl and bite each other, while they wait
  The master's whip, enforcing peace.  The days
  When nations would imperil all to keep
  Their liberties, are only memories now.
  The common cause is lost,--and thou art brought,
  The captive of some mercenary raid,
  Some profitable, honourless foray,
  To serve within my house.  Dost thou fare well?

RUAHMAH:
  Master, thou seest.

NAAMAN:
        Yes, I see!  My child,
  Why do they hate thee so?

RUAHMAH:
        I do not know,
  Unless because I will not bow to Rimmon.

NAAMAN:
  Thou needest not.  I fear he is a god
  Who pities not his people, will not save.
  My heart is sick with doubt of him.  But thou
  Shalt hold thy faith,--I care not what it is,--
  Worship thy god; but keep thy spirit free.
  Here, take this chain and wear it with my seal,
  None shall molest the maid who carries this.
  Thou hast found favour in thy master's eyes;
  Hast thou no other gift to ask of me?

RUAHMAH: [Earnestly.]
  My lord, I do entreat thee not to go
  To-morrow to the council.  Seek the King
  And speak with him in secret; but avoid
  The audience-hall.

NAAMAN;
        Why, what is this?  Thy wits
  Are wandering.  Why dost thou ask this thing
  Impossible!  My honour is engaged
  To speak for war, to lead in war against
  The Assyrian Bull and save Damascus.

RUAHMAH: [With confused earnestness.]
  Then, lord, if thou must go, I pray thee speak,--
  I know not how,--but so that all must hear.
  With magic of unanswerable words
  Persuade thy foes.  Yet watch,--beware,--

NAAMAN:
        Of what?

RUAHMAH: [Turning aside.]
  I am entangled in my speech,--no light,--
  How shall I tell him?  He will not believe.
  O my dear lord, thine enemies are they
  Of thine own house.  I pray thee to beware,--
  Beware,--of Rimmon!

NAAMAN:
  Child, thy words are wild;
  Thy troubles have bewildered all thy brain.
  Go, now, and fret no more; but sleep, and dream
  Of Israel!  For thou shall see thy home
  Among the hills again.

RUAHMAH:
        Master, good-night,
  And may thy slumber be as sweet and deep
  As if thou camped at snowy Hermon's foot,
  Amid the music of his waterfalls
  And watched by winged sentries of the sky.
  There friendly oak-trees bend their boughs above
  The weary head, pillowed on earth's kind breast,
  And unpolluted breezes lightly breathe
  A song of sleep among the murmuring leaves.
  There the big stars draw nearer, and the sun
  Looks forth serene, undimmed by city's mirk
  Or smoke of idol-temples, to behold
  The waking wonder of the wide-spread world,
  And life renews itself with every morn
  In purest joy of living.  May the Lord
  Deliver thee, dear master, from the nets
  Laid for thy feet, and lead thee out, along
  The open path, beneath the open sky!
  Thou shall be followed always by the heart
  Of one poor captive maid who prays for thee.

[Exit RUAHMAH: NAAMAN stands looking after her.]

SCENE II.

TIME: The following morning.

The audience-hall in BENHADAD'S palace.  The sides of the hall are lined with lofty columns:
the back opens toward the city, with descending steps: the House of Rimmon with its high tower
is seen in the background.  The throne is at the right in front: opposite is the royal door
of entrance, guarded by four tall sentinels.  Enter at the rear between the columns, RAKHAZ,
SABALLIDIN, HAZAEL, IZDUBHAR.

IZDUBHAR: [An excited old man.]
  The city is all in a turmoil.  It boils like a pot of lentils.  The
  people are foaming and bubbling round and round like beans in the
  pottage.

HAZAEL: [A lean, crafty man.]
  Fear is a hot fire.

RAKHAZ: [A fat, pompous man.]
  Well may they fear, for the Assyrians are not three days distant.
  They are blazing along like a waterspout to chop Damascus down like
  a pitcher of spilt milk.

SABALLIDIN: [Young and frank.]
  Cannot Naaman drive them back?

RAKHAZ: [Puffing and blowing.]
  Ho!  Naaman?  Where have you been living?  Naaman is a broken reed
  whose claws have been cut.  Build no hopes on that foundation, for
  it will upset in the midst of the sea and leave you hanging in the air.

SABALLIDIN:
  He clatters like a windmill.  What would he say, Hazael?

HAZAEL:
  Naaman can do nothing without the command of the King; and the King
  fears to order the army to march without the approval of the gods.
  The High Priest is against it.  The House of Rimmon is for peace with
  Asshur.

RAKHAZ:
  Yes, and all the nobles are for peace.  We are the men whose wisdom
  lights the rudder that upholds the chariot of state.  Would we be
  rich if we were not wise?  Do we not know better than the rabble what
  medicine will silence this fire that threatens to drown us?

IZDUBHAR:
  But if the Assyrians come, we shall all perish; they will despoil
  us all.

HAZAEL:
  Not us, my lord, only the common people.  The envoys have offered
  favourable terms to the priests, and the nobles, and the King.  No
  palace, no temple, shall be plundered.  Only the shops, and the
  markets, and the houses of the multitude shall be given up to the
  Bull.  He will eat his supper from the pot of lentils, not from
  our golden plate.

RAKHAZ:
  Yes, and all who speak for peace in the council shall be enriched;
  our heads shall be crowned with seats of honour in the processions
  of the Assyrian king.  He needs wise counsellors to help him guide
  the ship of empire onto the solid rock of prosperity.  You must be
  with us, my lords Izdubhar and Saballidin, and let the stars of
  your wisdom roar loudly for peace.

IZDUBHAR:
  He talks like a tablet read upside down,--a wild ass braying in the
 wilderness.  Yet there is policy in his words.

SABALLIDIN:
  I know not.  Can a kingdom live without a people or an army?  If we
  let the Bull in to sup on the lentils, will he not make his breakfast
  in our vineyards?

[Enter other courtiers, following SHUMAKIM, a crooked little jester, in blue, green and red,
a wreath of poppies around his neck and a flagon in his hand.  He walks unsteadily, and stutters
in his speech.]

HAZAEL:
  Here is Shumakim, the King's fool, with his legs full of last night's
  wine.

SHUMAKIM: [Balancing himself in front of them and chuckling.]
  Wrong, my lords, very wrong!  This is not last night's wine, but a
  draught the King's physician gave me this morning for a cure.  It
  sobers me amazingly!  I know you all, my lords: any fool would know
  you.  You, master, are a statesman; and you are a politician; and
  you are a patriot.

RAKHAZ:
  Am I a statesman?  I felt something of the kind about me.  But what
  is a statesman?

SHUMAKIM:
  A politician that is stuffed with big words; a fat man in a mask;
  one that plays a solemn tune on a sackbut full o' wind.

HAZAEL:
  And what is a politician?

SHUMAKIM:
  A statesman that has dropped his mask and cracked his sackbut.  Men
  trust him for what he is, and he never deceives them, because he
  always lies.

IZDUBHAR:
  Why do you call me a patriot?

SHUMAKIM:
  Because you know what is good for you; you love your country as you
  love your pelf.  You feel for the common people,--as the wolf feels
  for the sheep.

SABALLIDIN:
  And what am I?

