But who by hearsay speaks, and hath not fully felt What kind of fires they be in which those
spirits melt, Shall guess, and fail, what doth displease, Feeling my pulse, miss my disease.

II.

O no!  O no! trial only shows The bitter juice of forsaken woes; Where former bliss, present
evils do stain; Nay, former bliss adds to present pain, While remembrance doth both states
contain. Come, learners, then to me, the model of mishap, Ingulphed in despair, slid down from
Fortune's lap; And, as you like my double lot, Tread in my steps, or follow not.

III.

For me, alas!  I am full resolved Those bands, alas! shall not be dissolved; Nor break my word,
though reward come late; Nor fail my faith in my failing fate; Nor change in change, though
change change my state:

But always own myself, with eagle-eyed Truth, to fly Up to the sun, although the sun my wings
do fry; For if those flames burn my desire, Yet shall I die in Phoenix' fire.

POEM:  ODE

When, to my deadly pleasure, When to my lively torment, Lady, mine eyes remained Joined, alas!
to your beams.

With violence of heavenly Beauty, tied to virtue; Reason abashed retired; Gladly my senses yielded.

Gladly my senses yielding, Thus to betray my heart's fort, Left me devoid of all life.

They to the beamy suns went, Where, by the death of all deaths, Find to what harm they hastened.

Like to the silly Sylvan, Burned by the light he best liked, When with a fire he first met.

Yet, yet, a life to their death, Lady you have reserved; Lady the life of all love.

For though my sense be from me, And I be dead, who want sense, Yet do we both live in you.

Turned anew, by your means, Unto the flower that aye turns, As you, alas! my sun bends.

Thus do I fall to rise thus; Thus do I die to live thus; Changed to a change, I change not.

Thus may I not be from you; Thus be my senses on you; Thus what I think is of you; Thus what
I seek is in you; All what I am, it is you.

POEM:  VERSES

To the tune of a Neapolitan song, which beginneth, "No, no, no, no."

No, no, no, no, I cannot hate my foe, Although with cruel fire, First thrown on my desire,
She sacks my rendered sprite; For so fair a flame embraces All the places, Where that heat
of all heats springeth, That it bringeth To my dying heart some pleasure, Since his treasure
Burneth bright in fairest light.  No, no, no, no.

POEM:  SONG

To the tune of a Neapolitan Villanel.

All my sense thy sweetness gained; Thy fair hair my heart enchained; My poor reason thy words
moved, So that thee, like heaven, I loved.

Fa, la, la, leridan, dan, dan, dan, deridan: Dan, dan, dan, deridan, deridan, dei: While to
my mind the outside stood, For messenger of inward good.

Nor thy sweetness sour is deemed; Thy hair not worth a hair esteemed; Reason hath thy words
removed, Finding that but words they proved.

No more in thy sweetness glory, For thy knitting hair be sorry; Use thy words but to bewail
thee That no more thy beams avail thee; Dan, dan, Dan, dan, Lay not thy colours more to view,
Without the picture be found true.

Woe to me, alas, she weepeth! Fool! in me what folly creepeth? Was I to blaspheme enraged,
Where my soul I have engaged? Dan, dan, Dan, dan, And wretched I must yield to this; The fault
I blame her chasteness is.

Sweetness! sweetly pardon folly; Tie me, hair, your captive wholly: Words!  O words of heavenly
knowledge! Know, my words their faults acknowledge; Dan, dan, Dan, dan, And all my life I will
confess, The less I love, I live the less.

POEM:  TRANSLATION

From "La Diana de Monte-Mayor," in Spanish:  where Sireno, a shepherd, whose mistress Diana
had utterly forsaken him, pulling out a little of her hair, wrapped about with green silk,
to the hair he thus bewailed himself.

What changes here, O hair, I see, since I saw you! How ill fits you this green to wear, For
hope, the colour due! Indeed, I well did hope, Though hope were mixed with fear, No other shepherd
should have scope Once to approach this hair.

Ah hair! how many days My Dian made me show, With thousand pretty childish plays, If I ware
you or no: Alas, how oft with tears, - O tears of guileful breast! - She seemed full of jealous
fears, Whereat I did but jest.

Tell me, O hair of gold, If I then faulty be, That trust those killing eyes I would, Since
they did warrant me? Have you not seen her mood, What streams of tears she spent, 'Till that
I sware my faith so stood, As her words had it bent?

Who hath such beauty seen In one that changeth so? Or where one's love so constant been, Who
ever saw such woe? Ah, hair! are you not grieved To come from whence you be, Seeing how once
you saw I lived, To see me as you see?

On sandy bank of late, I saw this woman sit; Where, "Sooner die than change my state," She
with her finger writ: Thus my belief was staid, Behold Love's mighty hand On things were by
a woman said, And written in the sand.

The same Sireno in "Monte-Mayor," holding his mistress's glass before her, and looking upon
her while she viewed herself, thus sang:-

Of this high grace, with bliss conjoined, No farther debt on me is laid, Since that in self-same
metal coined, Sweet lady, you remain well paid;

For if my place give me great pleasure, Having before my nature's treasure, In face and eyes
unmatched being, You have the same in my hands, seeing What in your face mine eyes do measure.

Nor think the match unevenly made, That of those beams in you do tarry, The glass to you but
gives a shade, To me mine eyes the true shape carry; For such a thought most highly prized,
Which ever hath Love's yoke despised, Better than one captived perceiveth, Though he the lively
form receiveth, The other sees it but disguised.

POEM:  SONNETS

The dart, the beams, the sting, so strong I prove, Which my chief part doth pass through, parch,
and tie, That of the stroke, the heat, and knot of love, Wounded, inflamed, knit to the death,
I die.

Hardened and cold, far from affection's snare Was once my mind, my temper, and my life; While
I that sight, desire, and vow forbare, Which to avoid, quench, lose, nought boasted strife.

Yet will not I grief, ashes, thraldom change For others' ease, their fruit, or free estate;
So brave a shot, dear fire, and beauty strange, Bid me pierce, burn, and bind, long time and
late, And in my wounds, my flames, and bonds, I find A salve, fresh air, and bright contented mind.

* * *

Virtue, beauty, and speech, did strike, wound, charm, My heart, eyes, ears, with wonder, love,
delight, First, second, last, did bind, enforce, and arm, His works, shows, suits, with wit,
grace, and vows' might,

Thus honour, liking, trust, much, far, and deep, Held, pierced, possessed, my judgment, sense,
and will, Till wrongs, contempt, deceit, did grow, steal, creep, Bands, favour, faith, to break,
defile, and kill,

Then grief, unkindness, proof, took, kindled, taught, Well-grounded, noble, due, spite, rage,
disdain: But ah, alas! in vain my mind, sight, thought, Doth him, his face, his words, leave,
shun, refrain. For nothing, time, nor place, can loose, quench, ease Mine own embraced, sought,
knot, fire, disease.

POEM:  WOOING-STUFF

