"After having revolved a thousand projects for retarding and preventing that detested union,
I resolved to avail myself of my talent for drawing, and professed myself a master of that
science, in hope of being employed by the father of Serafina, who, I knew, let slip no opportunity
of improving his daughter's education.  Accordingly I had the good fortune to attract his notice,
was invited to his house, honoured with his approbation, and furnished with unrestricted opportunities
of conversing with the dear object of my love.  The passion which her beauty had kindled was
by the perfections of her mind inflamed to such a degree of transport, as could not be concealed
from her penetration.  She chanced to relish my conversation; I gradually acquired her friendship;
pity was the next passion that she entertained in my favour.  I then ventured to disclose myself,
and the dear charmer did not disapprove of my presumption.  She and her mother had been perplexed
with some religious scruples, concerning which they appealed to my opinion; and I was happy
enough to set their minds at ease.

"This sort of intercourse naturally created a mutual confidence among us; and, in a word, I
was blessed with the daughter's love and mother's approbation.  Don Diego will pardon these
clandestine measures, which we took, from a full persuasion that it was impossible to render
him propitious to the views in which our hearts and hands were so deeply interested.  I did
not then know how little he was addicted to superstition.

"Without entering into a detail of the schemes we projected to delay the happiness of Mendoza,
I shall only observe, that, knowing the fatal day was at length unalterably fixed, we determined
to elude the purpose of Don Diego by flight; and everything was actually prepared for our escape.
When the hour of appointment arrived, I repaired to the place at which I had proposed to enter
the house, and stumbled, in the dark, over the body of a man still warm, and bleeding.  Alarmed
at this occurrence, I darted myself through the window, and rushing to the apartment of the
ladies, (immortal powers!) beheld the peerless Serafina, and her virtuous mother, stretched
on a couch, and, in all appearance, deprived of life.

"The company will easily conceive what agonies I felt at such a spectacle!  I ran towards the
spot in a transport of horror!  I clasped my lovely mistress in my arms, and, finding her still
breathing, endeavoured, but in vain, to wake her from the trance Antonia was overwhelmed with
the same lethargic power.  My fancy was immediately struck with the apprehension of their being
poisoned.  Regardless of my own situation, I alarmed the family, called for assistance, and
requested the servants to summon Don Diego to the dismal scene.  I was informed that their
master had rode forth in manifest confusion; and while I pondered on this surprising excursion,
an apothecary in the neighbourhood entered the chamber, and having examined the pulses of the
ladies, declared that their lives were in no danger, and advised that they should be undressed,
and conveyed to bed.  While their women were busied in this employment, I went into the court-yard,
attended by some of the servants with lights, in order to view the body of the man which I
had found at my arrival.  His apparel was mean, his countenance ferocious; a long spado was
buckled to his thigh, and, in his belt, were stuck a brace of loaded pistols; so that we concluded
he was some thief, who had waited for an opportunity, and seeing the casement open, intended
to rob the house, but was prevented, and slain by Don Diego himself, whose retreat, however,
did not a little confound our conjecture.  For my own part, I remained all night in the house,
tortured with fear, vexation, and suspense.

