"Come!" she whispers, and turns to go; but the young man, numb and helpless, staggers nigh
to falling.

The sight of his weakness makes her strong. A mighty power thrills her body. Stooping beneath
his outstretched arms grasping at the air for support, Tusee lifts him upon her broad shoulders.
With half-running, triumphant steps she carries him away into the open night.

A DREAM OF HER GRANDFATHER

Her grandfather was a Dakota "medicine man." Among the Indians of his day he was widely known
for his successful healing work. He was one of the leading men of the tribe and came to Washington,
D.C., with one of the first delegations relative to affairs concerning the Indian people and
the United States government.

His was the first band of the Great Sioux Nation to make treaties with the government in the
hope of bringing about an amicable arrangement between the red and white Americans. The journey
to the nation's capital was made almost entirely on pony-back, there being no railroads, and
the Sioux delegation was beset with many hardships on the trail. His visit to Washington, in
behalf of peace among men, proved to be his last earthly mission. From a sudden illness, he
died and was buried here.

When his small granddaughter grew up she learned the white man's tongue, and followed in the
footsteps of her grandfather to the very seat of government to carry on his humanitarian work.
Though her days were filled with problems for welfare work among her people, she had a strange
dream one night during her stay in Washington. The dream was this: Returning from an afternoon
out, she found a large cedar chest had been delivered to her home in her absence. She sniffed
the sweet perfume of the red wood, which reminded her of the breath of the forest,--and admired
the box so neatly made, without trimmings. It looked so clean, strong and durable in its native
genuineness. With elation, she took the tag in her hand and read her name aloud. "Who sent
me this cedar chest?" she asked, and was told it came from her grandfather.

Wondering what gift it could be her grandfather wished now to confer upon her, wholly disregarding
his death years ago, she was all eagerness to open the mystery chest.

She remembered her childhood days and the stories she loved to hear about the unusual powers
of her grandfather,--recalled how she, the wee girl, had coveted the medicine bags, beaded
and embroidered in porcupine quills, in symbols designed by the great "medicine man," her grandfather.
Well did she remember her merited rebuke that such things were never made for relics. Treasures
came in due time to those ready to receive them.

In great expectancy, she lifted the heavy lid of the cedar chest. "Oh!" she exclaimed, with
a note of disappointment, seeing no beaded Indian regalia or trinkets. "Why does my grandfather
send such a light gift in a heavy, large box?" She was mystified and much perplexed.

The gift was a fantastic thing, of texture far more delicate than a spider's filmy web. It
was a vision! A picture of an Indian camp, not painted on canvas nor yet written. It was dream-stuff,
suspended in the thin air, filling the inclosure of the cedar wood container. As she looked
upon it, the picture grew more and more real, exceeding the proportions of the chest. It was
all so illusive a breath might have blown it away; yet there it was, real as life,--a circular
camp of white cone-shaped tepees, astir with Indian people. The village crier, with flowing
head-dress of eagle plumes, mounted on a prancing white pony, rode within the arena. Indian
men, women and children stopped in groups and clusters, while bright painted faces peered out
of tepee doors, to listen to the chieftain's crier.

At this point, she, too, heard the full melodious voice. She heard distinctly the Dakota words
he proclaimed to the people. "Be glad! Rejoice! Look up, and see the new day dawning! Help
is near! Hear me, every one."

She caught the glad tidings and was thrilled with new hope for her people.

THE WIDESPREAD ENIGMA CONCERNING BLUE-STAR WOMAN

It was summer on the western plains. Fields of golden sunflowers facing eastward, greeted the
rising sun. Blue-Star Woman, with windshorn braids of white hair over each ear, sat in the
shade of her log hut before an open fire. Lonely but unmolested she dwelt here like the ground
squirrel that took its abode nearby,--both through the easy tolerance of the land owner. The
Indian woman held a skillet over the burning embers. A large round cake, with long slashes
in its center, was baking and crowding the capacity of the frying pan.

In deep abstraction Blue-Star Woman prepared her morning meal. "Who am I?" had become the obsessing
riddle of her life. She was no longer a young woman, being in her fifty-third year. In the
eyes of the white man's law, it was required of her to give proof of her membership in the
Sioux tribe. The unwritten law of heart prompted her naturally to say, "I am a being. I am
Blue-Star Woman. A piece of earth is my birthright."

It was taught, for reasons now forgot, that an Indian should never pronounce his or her name
in answer to any inquiry. It was probably a means of protection in the days of black magic.
Be this as it may, Blue-Star Woman lived in times when this teaching was disregarded. It gained
her nothing, however, to pronounce her name to the government official to whom she applied
for her share of tribal land. His persistent question was always, "Who were your parents?"

Blue-Star Woman was left an orphan at a tender age. She did not remember them. They were long
gone to the spirit-land,-and she could not understand why they should be recalled to earth
on her account. It was another one of the old, old teachings of her race that the names of
the dead should not be idly spoken. It had become a sacrilege to mention carelessly the name
of any departed one, especially in matters of disputes over worldy possessions. The unfortunate
circumstances of her early childhood, together with the lack of written records of a roving
people, placed a formidable barrier between her and her heritage. The fact was events of far
greater importance to the tribe than her reincarnation had passed unrecorded in books. The
verbal reports of the old-time men and women of the tribe were varied,--some were actually
contradictory. Blue-Star Woman was unable to find even a twig of her family tree.

She sharpened one end of a long stick and with it speared the fried bread when it was browned.
Heedless of the hot bread's "Tsing!" in a high treble as it was lifted from the fire, she added
it to the six others which had preceded it. It had been many a moon since she had had a meal
of fried bread, for she was too poor to buy at any one time all the necessary ingredients,
particularly the fat in which to fry it. During the breadmaking, the smoke-blackened coffeepot
boiled over. The aroma of freshly made coffee smote her nostrils and roused her from the tantalizing
memories.

The day before, friendly spirits, the unseen ones, had guided her aimless footsteps to her
Indian neighbor's house. No sooner had she entered than she saw on the table some grocery bundles.
"Iye-que, fortunate one!" she exclaimed as she took the straight-backed chair offered her.
At once the Indian hostess untied the bundles and measured out a cupful of green coffee beans
and a pound of lard. She gave them to Blue-Star Woman, saying, "I want to share my good fortune.
Take these home with you." Thus it was that Blue-Star Woman had come into unexpected possession
of the materials which now contributed richly to her breakfast.

The generosity of her friend had often saved her from starvation. Generosity is said to be
a fault of Indian people, but neither the Pilgrim Fathers nor Blue-Star Woman ever held it
seriously against them. Blue-Star Woman was even grateful for this gift of food. She was fond
of coffee,-that black drink brought hither by those daring voyagers of long ago. The coffee
habit was one of the signs of her progress in the white man's civilization, also had she emerged
from the tepee into a log hut, another achievement. She had learned to read the primer and
to write her name. Little Blue-Star attended school unhindered by a fond mother's fears that
a foreign teacher might not spare the rod with her darling.

Blue-Star Woman was her individual name. For untold ages the Indian race had not used family
names. A new-born child was given a brand-new name. Blue-Star Woman was proud to write her
name for which she would not be required to substitute another's upon her marriage, as is the
custom of civilized peoples.

"The times are changed now," she muttered under her breath. "My individual name seems to mean
nothing." Looking out into space, she saw the nodding sunflowers, and they acquiesced with
her. Their drying leaves reminded her of the near approach of autumn. Then soon, very soon,
the ice would freeze along the banks of the muddy river. The day of the first ice was her birthday.
She would be fifty-four winters old. How futile had been all these winters to secure her a
share in tribal lands. A weary smile flickered across her face as she sat there on the ground
like a bronze figure of patience and long-suffering.

The breadmaking was finished. The skillet was set aside to cool. She poured the appetizing
coffee into her tin cup. With fried bread and black coffee she regaled herself. Again her mind
reverted to her riddle. "The missionary preacher said he could not explain the white man's
law to me. He who reads daily from the Holy Bible, which he tells me is God's book, cannot
understand mere man's laws. This also puzzles me," thought she to herself. "Once a wise leader
of our people, addressing a president of this country, said: 'I am a man. You are another.
The Great Spirit is our witness!' This is simple and easy to understand, but the times are
changed. The white man's laws are strange."

Blue-Star Woman broke off a piece of fried bread between a thumb and forefinger. She ate it
hungrily, and sipped from her cup of fragrant coffee. "I do not understand the white man's
law. It's like walking in the dark. In this darkness, I am growing fearful of everything."

Oblivious to the world, she had not heard the footfall of two Indian men who now stood before her.

Their short-cropped hair looked blue-black in contrast to the faded civilian clothes they wore.
Their white man's shoes were rusty and unpolished. To the unconventional eyes of the old Indian
woman, their celluloid collars appeared like shining marks of civilization. Blue-Star Woman
looked up from the lap of mother earth without rising. "Hinnu, hinnu!" she ejaculated in undisguised
surprise. "Pray, who are these would-be white men?" she inquired.

In one voice and by an assumed relationship the two Indian men addressed her. "Aunt, I shake
hands with you." Again Blue-Star Woman remarked, "Oh, indeed! these near white men speak my
native tongue and shake hands according to our custom." Did she guess the truth, she would
have known they were simply deluded mortals, deceiving others and themselves most of all. Boisterously
laughing and making conversation, they each in turn gripped her withered hand.

