We believe in a literal resurrection and an actual hereafter, in which future state shall be
recognized every sanctified and authorized relationship existing here on earth--of parent and
child, brother and sister, husband and wife.  We believe, further that contracts as of marriage,
to be valid beyond the veil of mortality must be sanctioned by a power greater than that of
earth.  With the seal of the holy Priesthood upon their wedded state, these people believe
implicitly in the perpetuity of that relationship on the far side of the grave.  They marry
not with the saddening limitation "Until death do you part," but "For time and for all eternity."[3]
This constitutes celestial marriage. The thought that plural marriage has ever been the head
and front of "Mormon" offending, that to it is traceable as the true cause the hatred of other
sects and the unpopularity of the Church, is not tenable to the earnest thinker.  Sad as have
been the experiences of the people in consequence of this practise, deep and anguish-laden
as have been the sighs and groans, hot and bitter as have been the tears so caused, the heaviest
persecution, the cruelest treatment of their history began before plural marriage was known
in the Church.  To them marriage is not, can never be, a civil compact alone; its significance
reaches beyond the grave; its obligations are eternal; and the Latter-day Saints are notable
for the sanctity with which they invest the marital state.  It has been my privilege to tread
the soil of many lands, to observe the customs and study the habits of more nations than one;
and I have yet to find the place and meet the people, where and with whom the purity of man
and woman is held more precious than among the maligned "Mormons" in the mountain valleys of
the west.  There I find this measure of just equality of the sexes-- that the sins of man shall
not be visited upon the head of woman.

At the inception of plural marriage among the Latter-day Saints, there was no law, national
or state, against its practise.  This statement assumes, as granted, a distinction between
bigamy and the "Mormon" institution of plural marriage.  In 1862, a law was enacted with the
purpose of suppressing plural marriage, and, as had been predicted in the national Senate prior
to its passage, it lay for many years a dead letter.  Federal judges and United States attorneys
in Utah, who were not "Mormons" nor lovers of "Mormonism," refused to entertain complaints
or prosecute cases under the law, because of its manifest injustice and inadequacy. But other
laws followed, most of which, as the Latter-day Saints believe, were aimed directly at their
religious conception of the marriage contract, and not at social impropriety nor sexual offense.

At last the Edmunds-Tucker act took effect, making not the marriage alone but the subsequent
acknowledging of the contract an offense punishable by fine or imprisonment or both.  Under
the spell of unrighteous zeal, the federal judiciary of Utah announced and practised that most
infamous doctrine of segregation of offenses with accumulating penalties.

I who write have listened to judges instructing grand juries in such terms as these: that although
the law of Congress designated as an offense the acknowledging of more living wives than one
by any man, and prescribed a penalty therefor, as Congress had not specified the length of
time during which this unlawful acknowledging must continue to constitute the offense, grand
juries might indict separately for every day of the period during which the forbidden relationship
existed.  This meant that for an alleged misdemeanor--for which Congress prescribed a maximum
penalty of six months' imprisonment and a fine of three hundred dollars--a man might be imprisoned
for life, aye, for many terms of a man's natural life did the court's power to enforce its
sentences extend so far, and might be fined millions of dollars. Before this travesty on the
administration of law could be brought before the court of last resort, and there meet with
the reversal and rebuke it deserved, men were imprisoned under sentences of many years' duration.

The people contested these measures one by one in the courts; presenting in case after case
the different phases of the subject, and urging the unconstitutionality of the measure.  Then
the Church was disincorporated, and its property both real and personal confiscated and escheated
to the government of the United States; and although the personal property was soon restored,
real estate of great value long lay in the hands of the court's receiver, and the "Mormon"
Church had to pay the national government high rental on its own property.  But the people
have suspended the practise of plural marriage; and the testimony of the governors, judges,
and district attorneys of the territory, and later that of the officers of the state, have
declared the sincerity of the renunciation.

As the people had adopted the practise under what was believed to be divine approval, they
suspended it when they were justified in so doing.  In whatever light this practise has been
regarded in the past, it is today a dead issue, forbidden by ecclesiastical rule as it is prohibited
by legal statute.  And the world is learning, to its manifest surprise, that plural marriage
and "Mormonism" are not synonymous terms.

                          -----------

And so the story of "Mormonism" runs on; its finale has not yet been written; the current press
presents continuously new stages of its progress, new developments of its plan.  Today the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is stronger than ever before; and the people are
confident that it is at its weakest stage for all time to come.  It lives and thrives because
within it are the elements of thrift and the forces of life.  It embraces a boundless liberality
of belief and practise; true toleration is one of its essential features; it makes love for
mankind second only to love for Deity.  Its creed provides for the protection of all men in
their rights of worship according to the dictates of conscience.  It contemplates a millennium
of peace, when every man shall love his neighbor and respect his neighbor's opinion as he regards
himself and his own--a day when the voice of the people shall be in unison with the voice of God.

THE PHILOSOPHY OF "MORMONISM"

CHAPTER I

In this attempt to treat the philosophy of "Mormonism" it is assumed that no discussion of
Christianity in general nor of the philosophy of Christianity is required.  The "Mormon" creed,
so far as there is a creed professed by the Latter-day Saints, is pre-eminently Christian in
theory, precept, and practise.  In what respect, then, may be properly asked, does "Mormonism"
differ from the faith and practise of other professedly Christian systems--in short, what is
"Mormonism?"

First, let it be remembered that the term "Mormon," with its derivatives, is not the official
designation of the Church with which it is usually associated.  The name was originally applied
in a spirit of derision, as a nick-name in fact, by the opponents of the Church; and was doubtless
suggested by the title of a prominent publication given to the world through Joseph Smith in
an early period of the Church's history.  This, of course, is the Book of Mormon.  Nevertheless,
the people have accepted the name thus thrust upon them, and answer readily to its call.  The
proper title of the organization is "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints."  The
philosophy of "Mormonism" is declared in the name.  The people claim this name as having been
bestowed by revelation and therefore that, like other names given of God as attested by scriptural
instances, it is at once name and title combined.

The Church declines to sail under any flag of man-made design; it repudiates the name of mortals
as a part of its title, and thus differs from Lutherans and Wesleyans, Calvinists, Mennonites,
and many others, all of whom, worthy though their organizations may be, elevating as may be
their precepts, good as may be their practises, declare themselves the followers of men.  This
is not the church of Moses nor the prophets, of Paul nor of Cephas, of Apollos nor of John;
neither of Joseph Smith nor of Brigham Young.  It asserts its proud claim as the Church of
Jesus Christ.

It refuses to wear a name indicative of distinctive or peculiar doctrines; and in this particular,
it differs from churches Catholic and Protestant, Presbyterian, Congregationalist, Unitarian,
Methodist and Baptist; its sole distinguishing features are those of the Church of Christ.

In an effort to present in concise form the cardinal doctrines of this organization, I cannot
do better than quote the so-called Articles of Faith of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, which have been in published form before the world for over half a century.[4]

[Footnote 4: For extended treatment of "Mormon" doctrine see "The Articles of Faith: a Series
of Lectures on the Principal Doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,"
by James E. Talmage.  Published by the Church: Salt Lake City, Utah; 485 pp.]

    1.

    2. We believe that men will be punished for their own
    sins, and not for Adam's transgression.

    5.

    6.

    9.

    10.

    11. We claim the privilege of worshiping Almighty God
    according to the dictates of our own conscience, and
    allow all men the same privilege, let them worship how,
    where, or what they may.

    12.

    13.  If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of
    good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these
    things.--JOSEPH SMITH.

This brief summary of "Mormon" doctrine appears over the signature of Joseph Smith--the man
whom the Latter-day Saints accept as the instrument in divine hands of re-establishing the
Church of Christ on earth, in this the Dispensation of the Fulness of Times.  Let it not be
supposed, however, that these Articles of Faith are, or profess to be, a complete code of the
doctrines of the Church, for, as declared in one of the "Articles," belief in continuous revelation
from Heaven is a characteristic feature of "Mormonism."  Yet it is to be noted that no doctrine
has been promulgated, which by even strained interpretation could be construed as antagonistic
to this early declaration of faith.  Nor has any revelation to the Church yet appeared in opposition
to earlier revelation of this or of by-gone dispensations.

To most of the declarations in the Articles of Faith, many sects professing Christianity could
confidently pledge allegiance; to many of them, all Christian organizations could and professedly
do subscribe.  Belief in the existence and powers of the Supreme Trinity; in Jesus Christ as
the Savior and Redeemer of mankind; in man's individual accountability for his doings; in the
acceptance of sacred writ as the Word of God; in the rights of Worship according to the dictates
of conscience; in all the moral virtues;--these professions and beliefs are as a common creed
in the realm of Christendom.  There is no peculiarly "Mormon" interpretation, in the light
of which these principles of faith and practise are viewed by the Latter-day Saints, except
in a certain simplicity and literalness of acceptance--gross literalness, unrefined materialism,
it has been called by some critical opponents.

The gospel plan as accepted and taught by the Latter-day Saints is strikingly simple; disappointing
in its simplicity, indeed, to the mind that can find satisfaction in mysteries alone, and to
him whose love for metaphor, symbolism, and imagery are stronger than his devotion to truth
itself, which may or may not be thus embellished.  The Church asserts that the wisdom of human
learning, while ranking among the choicest of earthly possessions, is not essential to an understanding
of the gospel; and that the preacher of the Word must be otherwise endowed than by the learning
of the schoolmen.  "Mormonism" is for the wayfaring man, not less than for the scholar, and
it possesses a simplicity adapting it to the one as to the other.  A few of the characteristically
"Mormon" tenets may perhaps be profitably considered.

"Mormonism" affirms its unqualified belief in the Godhead as the Holy Trinity, comprising Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost; each of the three a separate and individual personage; the Father and
the Son each a personage of spirit and of immortalized body; the Holy Ghost a personage of spirit.

The unity of the Godhead is accepted in the literal fulness of scriptural declaration--that
the three are one in purpose, plan and method, alike in all their Godly attributes; one in
their divine omniscience and omnipotence; yet as separate and distinct in their personality
as are any three inhabitants of earth. "Mormonism" claims that scriptures declaring the oneness
of the Trinity admit of this interpretation; that such indeed is the natural interpretation;
and that the conception is in accord with reason.

We hold that mankind are literally the spiritual children of God; that even as the Christ had
an existence with the Father before coming to earth to take upon himself a tabernacle of flesh,
to live and to die as a man in accordance with the fore-ordained plan of redemption, so, too,
every child of earth had an existence in the spirit-state before entering upon this mortal
probation.  We hold the doctrine to be reasonable, scriptural and true, that mortal birth is
no more the beginning of the soul's existence than is death its end.

The time-span of mortal life is but one stage in the soul's career, separating the eternity
that has preceded from the eternity that is to follow.  And this mortal existence is one of
the Father's great gifts to his spiritual children, affording them the opportunity of an untrammeled
exercise of their free agency, the privilege of meeting temptation and of resisting it if they
will, the chance to win exaltation and eternal life.

We claim that all men are equal as to earthly rights and human privileges; but that each has
individual capacity and capabilities; that in the primeval world there were spirits noble and
great, as there were others of lesser power and inferior purpose.  There is no chance in the
number or nature of spirits that are born to earth; all who are entitled to the privileges
of mortality and have been assigned to this sphere shall come at the time appointed, and shall
return to inherit each the glory or the degradation to which he has shown himself adapted.
The gospel as understood by the Latter-day Saints affirms the unconditional free-agency of
man--his right to accept good or evil, to choose the means of eternal progression or the opposite,
to worship as he elects, or to refuse to worship at all--and then to take the consequences
of his choice.

"Mormonism" rejects what it regards as a heresy, the false doctrine of pre-destination as an
absolute compulsion or even as an irresistible tendency forced upon the individual toward right
or wrong--as a pre-appointment to eventual exaltation or condemnation; yet it affirms that
the infinite wisdom and fore-knowledge of God makes plain to him the end from the beginning;
and that he can read in the natures and dispositions of his children, their destiny.

"Mormonism" claims an actual and literal relationship of parent and child between the Creator
and man--not in the figurative sense in which the engine may be called the child of its builder;
not the relationship of a thing mechanically made to the maker thereof; but the kinship of
father and offspring.  In short it is bold enough to declare that man's spirit being the offspring
of Deity, and man's body though of earthy components yet being in the very image and likeness
of God, man even in his present degraded--aye, fallen condition--still possesses, if only in
a latent state, inherited traits, tendencies and powers that tell of his more than royal descent;
and that these may be developed so as to make him, even while mortal, in a measure Godlike.

But "Mormonism" is bolder yet.  It asserts that in accordance with the inviolable law of organic
nature--that like shall beget like, and that multiplication of numbers and perpetuation of
species shall be in compliance with the condition "each after his kind," the child may achieve
the former status of the parent, and that in his mortal condition man is a God in embryo. 
However far in the future it may be, what ages may elapse, what eternities may pass before
any individual now a mortal being may attain the rank and sanctity of godship, man nevertheless
carries in his soul the possibilities of such achievement; even as the crawling caterpillar
or the corpse-like chrysalis holds the latent possibility, nay, barring destruction, the certainty
indeed, of the winged imago in all the glory of maturity.

"Mormonism" claims that all nature, both on earth and in heaven, operates on a plan of advancement;
that the very Eternal Father is a progressive Being; that his perfection, while so complete
as to be incomprehensible by man, possesses this essential quality of true perfection--the
capacity of eternal increase.  That therefore, in the far future, beyond the horizon of eternities
perchance, man may attain the status of a God.  Yet this does not mean that he shall be then
the equal of the Deity he now worships nor that he shall ever overtake those intelligences
that are already beyond him in advancement; for to assert such would be to argue that there
is no progression beyond a certain stage of attainment, and that advancement is a characteristic
of low organization and inferior purpose alone.  He is born heir to the weaknesses as well
as to the excellencies of generations of ancestors; he inherits potent tendencies for both
good and evil; and verily, it seems that in the flesh he has to suffer for the sins of his
progenitors.  But divine blessings are not to be reckoned in terms of earthly possessions or
bodily excellencies alone; the child born under conditions of adversity may after all be richly
endowed with opportunity, opportunity which, perhaps, had been less of service amid the surroundings
of luxury.  We hold that the Father has an individual interest in his children; and that surely
in the rendering of divine judgment, the conditions under which each soul has lived in mortality
shall be considered.  The Church holds that children are born to earth in a sinless state,
that they need no individual redemption; that should they die before reaching years of accountability,
they return without taint of earthly sin; but as they attain youth or maturity in the flesh,
their responsibility increases with their development.

