As we begin to focus upon God the things of the spirit will take shape before our inner eyes.
Obedience to the word of Christ will bring an inward revelation of the Godhead (John 14:21-23).
It will give acute perception enabling us to see God even as is promised to the pure in heart.
A new God consciousness will seize upon us and we shall begin to taste and hear and inwardly
feel the God who is our life and our all. There will be seen the constant shining of the light
that lighteth every man that cometh into the world. More and more, as our faculties grow sharper
and more sure, God will become to us the great All, and His Presence the glory and wonder of
our lives.

O God, quicken to life every power within me, that I may lay hold on eternal things. Open my
eyes that I may see; give me acute spiritual perception; enable me to taste Thee and know that
Thou art good. Make heaven more real to me than any earthly thing has ever been. Amen.

V

The Universal Presence

     Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from
     thy presence?--Psa. 139:7

In all Christian teaching certain basic truths are found, hidden at times, and rather assumed
than asserted, but necessary to all truth as the primary colors are found in and necessary
to the finished painting. Such a truth is the divine immanence.

God dwells in His creation and is everywhere indivisibly present in all His works. This is
boldly taught by prophet and apostle and is accepted by Christian theology generally. That
is, it appears in the books, but for some reason it has not sunk into the average Christian's
heart so as to become a part of his believing self. Christian teachers shy away from its full
implications, and, if they mention it at all, mute it down till it has little meaning. I would
guess the reason for this to be the fear of being charged with pantheism; but the doctrine
of the divine Presence is definitely not pantheism.

Pantheism's error is too palpable to deceive anyone. It is that God is the sum of all created
things. Nature and God are one, so that whoever touches a leaf or a stone touches God. That
is of course to degrade the glory of the incorruptible Deity and, in an effort to make all
things divine, banish all divinity from the world entirely.

The truth is that while God dwells in His world He is separated from it by a gulf forever impassable.
However closely He may be identified with the work of His hands they are and must eternally
be other than He, and He is and must be antecedent to and independent of them. He is transcendent
above all His works even while He is immanent within them.

What now does the divine immanence mean in direct Christian experience? It means simply that
God is here. Wherever we are, God is here. There is no place, there can be no place, where
He is not. Ten million intelligences standing at as many points in space and separated by incomprehensible
distances can each one say with equal truth, God is here. No point is nearer to God than any
other point. It is exactly as near to God from any place as it is from any other place. No
one is in mere distance any further from or any nearer to God than any other person is.

These are truths believed by every instructed Christian. It remains for us to think on them
and pray over them until they begin to glow within us.

"In the beginning God." Not matter, for matter is not self-causing. It requires an antecedent
cause, and God is that Cause. Not law, for law is but a name for the course which all creation
follows. That course had to be planned, and the Planner is God. Not mind, for mind also is
a created thing and must have a Creator back of it. In the beginning God, the uncaused Cause
of matter, mind and law. There we must begin.

Adam sinned and, in his panic, frantically tried to do the impossible: he tried to hide from
the Presence of God. David also must have had wild thoughts of trying to escape from the Presence,
for he wrote, "Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence?"
Then he proceeded through one of his most beautiful psalms to celebrate the glory of the divine
immanence. And he knew that God's being and God's seeing are the same, that the seeing Presence
had been with him even before he was born, watching the mystery of unfolding life. Paul assured
the Athenians that "God is not far from any one of us: for in him we live, and move, and have
our being."

If God is present at every point in space, if we cannot go where He is not, cannot even conceive
of a place where He is not, why then has not that Presence become the one universally celebrated
fact of the world? The patriarch Jacob, "in the waste howling wilderness," gave the answer
to that question. He saw a vision of God and cried out in wonder, "Surely the Lord is in this
place; and I knew it not." Jacob had never been for one small division of a moment outside
the circle of that all-pervading Presence. But he knew it not. That was his trouble, and it
is ours. Men do not know that God is here. What a difference it would make if they knew.

The Presence and the manifestation of the Presence are not the same. There can be the one without
the other. God is here when we are wholly unaware of it. He is manifest only when and as we
are aware of His Presence. On our part there must be surrender to the Spirit of God, for His
work it is to show us the Father and the Son. If we co-operate with Him in loving obedience
God will manifest Himself to us, and that manifestation will be the difference between a nominal
Christian life and a life radiant with the light of His face.

Always, everywhere God is present, and always He seeks to discover Himself. To each one he
would reveal not only that He is, but what He is as well. He did not have to be persuaded to
discover Himself to Moses. "And the Lord descended in the cloud, and stood with him there,
and proclaimed the name of the Lord." He not only made a verbal proclamation of His nature
but He revealed His very Self to Moses so that the skin of Moses' face shone with the supernatural
light. It will be a great moment for some of us when we begin to believe that God's promise
of self-revelation is literally true: that He promised much, but promised no more than He intends
to fulfill.

Our pursuit of God is successful just because He is forever seeking to manifest Himself to
us. The revelation of God to any man is not God coming from a distance upon a time to pay a
brief and momentous visit to the man's soul. Thus to think of it is to misunderstand it all.
The approach of God to the soul or of the soul to God is not to be thought of in spatial terms
at all. There is no idea of physical distance involved in the concept. It is not a matter of
miles but of experience.

To speak of being near to or far from God is to use language in a sense always understood when
applied to our ordinary human relationships. A man may say, "I feel that my son is coming nearer
to me as he gets older," and yet that son has lived by his father's side since he was born
and has never been away from home more than a day or so in his entire life. What then can the
father mean? Obviously he is speaking of experience. He means that the boy is coming to know
him more intimately and with deeper understanding, that the barriers of thought and feeling
between the two are disappearing, that father and son are becoming more closely united in mind
and heart.

So when we sing, "Draw me nearer, nearer, blessed Lord," we are not thinking of the nearness
of place, but of the nearness of relationship. It is for increasing degrees of awareness that
we pray, for a more perfect consciousness of the divine Presence. We need never shout across
the spaces to an absent God. He is nearer than our own soul, closer than our most secret thoughts.

Why do some persons "find" God in a way that others do not? Why does God manifest His Presence
to some and let multitudes of others struggle along in the half-light of imperfect Christian
experience? Of course the will of God is the same for all. He has no favorites within His household.
All He has ever done for any of His children He will do for all of His children. The difference
lies not with God but with us.

Pick at random a score of great saints whose lives and testimonies are widely known. Let them
be Bible characters or well known Christians of post-Biblical times. You will be struck instantly
with the fact that the saints were not alike. Sometimes the unlikenesses were so great as to
be positively glaring. How different for example was Moses from Isaiah; how different was Elijah
from David; how unlike each other were John and Paul, St. Francis and Luther, Finney and Thomas
à Kempis. The differences are as wide as human life itself: differences of race, nationality,
education, temperament, habit and personal qualities. Yet they all walked, each in his day,
upon a high road of spiritual living far above the common way.

Their differences must have been incidental and in the eyes of God of no significance. In some
vital quality they must have been alike. What was it?

I venture to suggest that the one vital quality which they had in common was spiritual receptivity.
Something in them was open to heaven, something which urged them Godward. Without attempting
anything like a profound analysis I shall say simply that they had spiritual awareness and
that they went on to cultivate it until it became the biggest thing in their lives. They differed
from the average person in that when they felt the inward longing they did something about
it. They acquired the lifelong habit of spiritual response. They were not disobedient to the
heavenly vision.

As with everything good in human life, back of this receptivity is God. The sovereignty of
God is here, and is felt even by those who have not placed particular stress upon it theologically.

These words will repay study as the deep and serious testimony of a great Christian.

Important as it is that we recognize God working in us, I would yet warn against a too-great
preoccupation with the thought. It is a sure road to sterile passivity. God will not hold us
responsible to understand the mysteries of election, predestination and the divine sovereignty.
The best and safest way to deal with these truths is to raise our eyes to God and in deepest
reverence say, "O Lord, Thou knowest." Those things belong to the deep and mysterious Profound
of God's omniscience. Prying into them may make theologians, but it will never make saints.

Receptivity is not a single thing; it is a compound rather, a blending of several elements
within the soul. It is an affinity for, a bent toward, a sympathetic response to, a desire
to have. From this it may be gathered that it can be present in degrees, that we may have little
or more or less, depending upon the individual. It may be increased by exercise or destroyed
by neglect. It is not a sovereign and irresistible force which comes upon us as a seizure from
above. It is a gift of God, indeed, but one which must be recognized and cultivated as any
other gift if it is to realize the purpose for which it was given.

Failure to see this is the cause of a very serious breakdown in modern evangelicalism. The
idea of cultivation and exercise, so dear to the saints of old, has now no place in our total
religious picture. It is too slow, too common. We now demand glamour and fast flowing dramatic
action. A generation of Christians reared among push buttons and automatic machines is impatient
of slower and less direct methods of reaching their goals. We have been trying to apply machine-age
methods to our relations with God. We read our chapter, have our short devotions and rush away,
hoping to make up for our deep inward bankruptcy by attending another gospel meeting or listening
to another thrilling story told by a religious adventurer lately returned from afar.

The tragic results of this spirit are all about us. Shallow lives, hollow religious philosophies,
the preponderance of the element of fun in gospel meetings, the glorification of men, trust
in religious externalities, quasi-religious fellowships, salesmanship methods, the mistaking
of dynamic personality for the power of the Spirit: these and such as these are the symptoms
of an evil disease, a deep and serious malady of the soul.

For this great sickness that is upon us no one person is responsible, and no Christian is wholly
free from blame. We have all contributed, directly or indirectly, to this sad state of affairs.
We have been too blind to see, or too timid to speak out, or too self-satisfied to desire anything
better than the poor average diet with which others appear satisfied. To put it differently,
we have accepted one another's notions, copied one another's lives and made one another's experiences
the model for our own. And for a generation the trend has been downward. Now we have reached
a low place of sand and burnt wire grass and, worst of all, we have made the Word of Truth
conform to our experience and accepted this low plane as the very pasture of the blessed.

It will require a determined heart and more than a little courage to wrench ourselves loose
from the grip of our times and return to Biblical ways. But it can be done. Every now and then
in the past Christians have had to do it. History has recorded several large-scale returns
led by such men as St. Francis, Martin Luther and George Fox. Unfortunately there seems to
be no Luther or Fox on the horizon at present. Whether or not another such return may be expected
before the coming of Christ is a question upon which Christians are not fully agreed, but that
is not of too great importance to us now.

What God in His sovereignty may yet do on a world-scale I do not claim to know: but what He
will do for the plain man or woman who seeks His face I believe I do know and can tell others.
Let any man turn to God in earnest, let him begin to exercise himself unto godliness, let him
seek to develop his powers of spiritual receptivity by trust and obedience and humility, and
the results will exceed anything he may have hoped in his leaner and weaker days.

Any man who by repentance and a sincere return to God will break himself out of the mold in
which he has been held, and will go to the Bible itself for his spiritual standards, will be
delighted with what he finds there.

Let us say it again: The Universal Presence is a fact. God is here. The whole universe is alive
with His life. And He is no strange or foreign God, but the familiar Father of our Lord Jesus
Christ whose love has for these thousands of years enfolded the sinful race of men. And always
He is trying to get our attention, to reveal Himself to us, to communicate with us. We have
within us the ability to know Him if we will but respond to His overtures. (And this we call
pursuing God!) We will know Him in increasing degree as our receptivity becomes more perfect
by faith and love and practice.

O God and Father, I repent of my sinful preoccupation with visible things. The world has been
too much with me. Thou hast been here and I knew it not. I have been blind to Thy Presence.
Open my eyes that I may behold Thee in and around me. For Christ's sake, Amen. And he would
be right. A word is a medium by which thoughts are expressed, and the application of term to
the Eternal Son leads us to believe that self-expression is inherent in the Godhead, that God
is forever seeking to speak Himself out to His creation. The whole Bible supports the idea.
God is speaking. Not God spoke, but God is speaking. He is by His nature continuously articulate.
He fills the world with His speaking Voice.

One of the great realities with which we have to deal is the Voice of God in His world. The
briefest and only satisfying cosmogony is this: "He spake and it was done." The why of natural
law is the living Voice of God immanent in His creation. And this word of God which brought
all worlds into being cannot be understood to mean the Bible, for it is not a written or printed
word at all, but the expression of the will of God spoken into the structure of all things.
This word of God is the breath of God filling the world with living potentiality. The Voice
of God is the most powerful force in nature, indeed the only force in nature, for all energy
is here only because the power-filled Word is being spoken.

The Bible is the written word of God, and because it is written it is confined and limited
by the necessities of ink and paper and leather. The Voice of God, however, is alive and free
as the sovereign God is free. "The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are
life." The life is in the speaking words. God's word in the Bible can have power only because
it corresponds to God's word in the universe. It is the present Voice which makes the written
Word all-powerful. Otherwise it would lie locked in slumber within the covers of a book.

We take a low and primitive view of things when we conceive of God at the creation coming into
physical contact with things, shaping and fitting and building like a carpenter. "Through faith
we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God." Again we must remember that
God is referring here not to His written Word, but to His speaking Voice. His world-filling
Voice is meant, that Voice which antedates the Bible by uncounted centuries, that Voice which
has not been silent since the dawn of creation, but is sounding still throughout the full far
reaches of the universe.

The Word of God is quick and powerful. In the beginning He spoke to nothing, and it became
something. Chaos heard it and became order, darkness heard it and became light. "And God said--and
it was so." These twin phrases, as cause and effect, occur throughout the Genesis story of
the creation. The said accounts for the so. The so is the said put into the continuous present.

That God is here and that He is speaking--these truths are back of all other Bible truths;
without them there could be no revelation at all. God did not write a book and send it by messenger
to be read at a distance by unaided minds. He spoke a Book and lives in His spoken words, constantly
speaking His words and causing the power of them to persist across the years. God breathed
on clay and it became a man; He breathes on men and they become clay. "Return ye children of
men" was the word spoken at the Fall by which God decreed the death of every man, and no added
word has He needed to speak. The sad procession of mankind across the face of the earth from
birth to the grave is proof that His original Word was enough.

We have not given sufficient attention to that deep utterance in the Book of John, "That was
the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world." Shift the punctuation
around as we will and the truth is still there: the Word of God affects the hearts of all men
as light in the soul. In the hearts of all men the light shines, the Word sounds, and there
is no escaping them. Something like this would of necessity be so if God is alive and in His
world. And John says that it is so. Even those persons who have never heard of the Bible have
still been preached to with sufficient clarity to remove every excuse from their hearts forever.

This universal Voice of God was by the ancient Hebrews often called Wisdom, and was said to
be everywhere sounding and searching throughout the earth, seeking some response from the sons
of men. The eighth chapter of the Book of Proverbs begins, "Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding
put forth her voice?" The writer then pictures wisdom as a beautiful woman standing "in the
top of the high places, by the way in the places of the paths." She sounds her voice from every
quarter so that no one may miss hearing it. "Unto you, O men, I call; and my voice is to the
sons of men." Then she pleads for the simple and the foolish to give ear to her words. It is
spiritual response for which this Wisdom of God is pleading, a response which she has always
sought and is but rarely able to secure. The tragedy is that our eternal welfare depends upon
our hearing, and we have trained our ears not to hear.

This universal Voice has ever sounded, and it has often troubled men even when they did not
understand the source of their fears. Could it be that this Voice distilling like a living
mist upon the hearts of men has been the undiscovered cause of the troubled conscience and
the longing for immortality confessed by millions since the dawn of recorded history? We need
not fear to face up to this. The speaking Voice is a fact. How men have reacted to it is for
any observer to note.

When God spoke out of heaven to our Lord, self-centered men who heard it explained it by natural
causes: they said, "It thundered." This habit of explaining the Voice by appeals to natural
law is at the very root of modern science. In the living breathing cosmos there is a mysterious
Something, too wonderful, too awful for any mind to understand. The believing man does not
claim to understand. He falls to his knees and whispers, "God." The man of earth kneels also,
but not to worship. He kneels to examine, to search, to find the cause and the how of things.
Just now we happen to be living in a secular age. Our thought habits are those of the scientist,
not those of the worshipper. We are more likely to explain than to adore. "It thundered," we
exclaim, and go our earthly way. But still the Voice sounds and searches. The order and life
of the world depend upon that Voice, but men are mostly too busy or too stubborn to give attention.

Everyone of us has had experiences which we have not been able to explain: a sudden sense of
loneliness, or a feeling of wonder or awe in the face of the universal vastness. Or we have
had a fleeting visitation of light like an illumination from some other sun, giving us in a
quick flash an assurance that we are from another world, that our origins are divine. What
we saw there, or felt, or heard, may have been contrary to all that we had been taught in the
schools and at wide variance with all our former beliefs and opinions. We were forced to suspend
our acquired doubts while, for a moment, the clouds were rolled back and we saw and heard for
ourselves. Explain such things as we will, I think we have not been fair to the facts until
we allow at least the possibility that such experiences may arise from the Presence of God
in the world and His persistent effort to communicate with mankind. Let us not dismiss such
an hypothesis too flippantly.

It is my own belief (and here I shall not feel bad if no one follows me) that every good and
beautiful thing which man has produced in the world has been the result of his faulty and sin-blocked
response to the creative Voice sounding over the earth. The moral philosophers who dreamed
their high dreams of virtue, the religious thinkers who speculated about God and immortality,
the poets and artists who created out of common stuff pure and lasting beauty: how can we explain
them? It is not enough to say simply, "It was genius." What then is genius? Could it be that
a genius is a man haunted by the speaking Voice, laboring and striving like one possessed to
achieve ends which he only vaguely understands? That the great man may have missed God in his
labors, that he may even have spoken or written against God does not destroy the idea I am
advancing. God's redemptive revelation in the Holy Scriptures is necessary to saving faith
and peace with God. Faith in a risen Saviour is necessary if the vague stirrings toward immortality
are to bring us to restful and satisfying communion with God. To me this is a plausible explanation
of all that is best out of Christ. But you can be a good Christian and not accept my thesis.

The Voice of God is a friendly Voice. No one need fear to listen to it unless he has already
made up his mind to resist it. The blood of Jesus has covered not only the human race but all
creation as well. We may safely preach a friendly Heaven. The heavens as well as the earth
are filled with the good will of Him that dwelt in the bush. The perfect blood of atonement
secures this forever.

Whoever will listen will hear the speaking Heaven. This is definitely not the hour when men
take kindly to an exhortation to listen, for listening is not today a part of popular religion.
We are at the opposite end of the pole from there. Religion has accepted the monstrous heresy
that noise, size, activity and bluster make a man dear to God. But we may take heart. To a
people caught in the tempest of the last great conflict God says, "Be still, and know that
I am God," and still He says it, as if He means to tell us that our strength and safety lie
not in noise but in silence.

It is important that we get still to wait on God. And it is best that we get alone, preferably
with our Bible outspread before us. Then if we will we may draw near to God and begin to hear
Him speak to us in our hearts. I think for the average person the progression will be something
like this: First a sound as of a Presence walking in the garden. Then a voice, more intelligible,
but still far from clear. Then the happy moment when the Spirit begins to illuminate the Scriptures,
and that which had been only a sound, or at best a voice, now becomes an intelligible word,
warm and intimate and clear as the word of a dear friend. Then will come life and light, and
best of all, ability to see and rest in and embrace Jesus Christ as Saviour and Lord and All.

The Bible will never be a living Book to us until we are convinced that God is articulate in
His universe. To jump from a dead, impersonal world to a dogmatic Bible is too much for most
people. They may admit that they should accept the Bible as the Word of God, and they may try
to think of it as such, but they find it impossible to believe that the words there on the
page are actually for them. A man may say, "These words are addressed to me," and yet in his
heart not feel and know that they are. He is the victim of a divided psychology. He tries to
think of God as mute everywhere else and vocal only in a book.

I believe that much of our religious unbelief is due to a wrong conception of and a wrong feeling
for the Scriptures of Truth. A silent God suddenly began to speak in a book and when the book
was finished lapsed back into silence again forever. Now we read the book as the record of
what God said when He was for a brief time in a speaking mood. With notions like that in our
heads how can we believe? The facts are that God is not silent, has never been silent. It is
the nature of God to speak. The second Person of the Holy Trinity is called the Word. The Bible
is the inevitable outcome of God's continuous speech. It is the infallible declaration of His
mind for us put into our familiar human words.

