Volume I.

                             Part 6.

CHAPTER XVI.

OF WHAT HAPPENED TO THE INGENIOUS GENTLEMAN IN THE INN WHICH HE TOOK TO BE A CASTLE

The innkeeper, seeing Don Quixote slung across the ass, asked Sancho what was amiss with him.
Sancho answered that it was nothing, only that he had fallen down from a rock and had his ribs
a little bruised. The innkeeper had a wife whose disposition was not such as those of her calling
commonly have, for she was by nature kind-hearted and felt for the sufferings of her neighbours,
so she at once set about tending Don Quixote, and made her young daughter, a very comely girl,
help her in taking care of her guest. There was besides in the inn, as servant, an Asturian
lass with a broad face, flat poll, and snub nose, blind of one eye and not very sound in the
other. The elegance of her shape, to be sure, made up for all her defects; she did not measure
seven palms from head to foot, and her shoulders, which overweighted her somewhat, made her
contemplate the ground more than she liked. This graceful lass, then, helped the young girl,
and the two made up a very bad bed for Don Quixote in a garret that showed evident signs of
having formerly served for many years as a straw-loft, in which there was also quartered a
carrier whose bed was placed a little beyond our Don Quixote's, and, though only made of the
pack-saddles and cloths of his mules, had much the advantage of it, as Don Quixote's consisted
simply of four rough boards on two not very even trestles, a mattress, that for thinness might
have passed for a quilt, full of pellets which, were they not seen through the rents to be
wool, would to the touch have seemed pebbles in hardness, two sheets made of buckler leather,
and a coverlet the threads of which anyone that chose might have counted without missing one
in the reckoning.

On this accursed bed Don Quixote stretched himself, and the hostess and her daughter soon covered
him with plasters from top to toe, while Maritornes--for that was the name of the Asturian--held
the light for them, and while plastering him, the hostess, observing how full of wheals Don
Quixote was in some places, remarked that this had more the look of blows than of a fall.

It was not blows, Sancho said, but that the rock had many points and projections, and that
each of them had left its mark. "Pray, senora," he added, "manage to save some tow, as there
will be no want of some one to use it, for my loins too are rather sore."

"Then you must have fallen too," said the hostess.

"I did not fall," said Sancho Panza, "but from the shock I got at seeing my master fall, my
body aches so that I feel as if I had had a thousand thwacks."

"That may well be," said the young girl, "for it has many a time happened to me to dream that
I was falling down from a tower and never coming to the ground, and when I awoke from the dream
to find myself as weak and shaken as if I had really fallen."

"There is the point, senora," replied Sancho Panza, "that I without dreaming at all, but being
more awake than I am now, find myself with scarcely less wheals than my master, Don Quixote."

"How is the gentleman called?" asked Maritornes the Asturian.

"Don Quixote of La Mancha," answered Sancho Panza, "and he is a knight-adventurer, and one
of the best and stoutest that have been seen in the world this long time past."

"What is a knight-adventurer?" said the lass.

"Are you so new in the world as not to know?" answered Sancho Panza. "Well, then, you must
know, sister, that a knight-adventurer is a thing that in two words is seen drubbed and emperor,
that is to-day the most miserable and needy being in the world, and to-morrow will have two
or three crowns of kingdoms to give his squire."

"Then how is it," said the hostess, "that belonging to so good a master as this, you have not,
to judge by appearances, even so much as a county?"

"It is too soon yet," answered Sancho, "for we have only been a month going in quest of adventures,
and so far we have met with nothing that can be called one, for it will happen that when one
thing is looked for another thing is found; however, if my master Don Quixote gets well of
this wound, or fall, and I am left none the worse of it, I would not change my hopes for the
best title in Spain."

To all this conversation Don Quixote was listening very attentively, and sitting up in bed
as well as he could, and taking the hostess by the hand he said to her, "Believe me, fair lady,
you may call yourself fortunate in having in this castle of yours sheltered my person, which
is such that if I do not myself praise it, it is because of what is commonly said, that self-praise
debaseth; but my squire will inform you who I am. I only tell you that I shall preserve for
ever inscribed on my memory the service you have rendered me in order to tender you my gratitude
while life shall last me; and would to Heaven love held me not so enthralled and subject to
its laws and to the eyes of that fair ingrate whom I name between my teeth, but that those
of this lovely damsel might be the masters of my liberty."

The hostess, her daughter, and the worthy Maritornes listened in bewilderment to the words
of the knight-errant; for they understood about as much of them as if he had been talking Greek,
though they could perceive they were all meant for expressions of good-will and blandishments;
and not being accustomed to this kind of language, they stared at him and wondered to themselves,
for he seemed to them a man of a different sort from those they were used to, and thanking
him in pothouse phrase for his civility they left him, while the Asturian gave her attention
to Sancho, who needed it no less than his master.

The carrier had made an arrangement with her for recreation that night, and she had given him
her word that when the guests were quiet and the family asleep she would come in search of
him and meet his wishes unreservedly. And it is said of this good lass that she never made
promises of the kind without fulfilling them, even though she made them in a forest and without
any witness present, for she plumed herself greatly on being a lady and held it no disgrace
to be in such an employment as servant in an inn, because, she said, misfortunes and ill-luck
had brought her to that position. The hard, narrow, wretched, rickety bed of Don Quixote stood
first in the middle of this star-lit stable, and close beside it Sancho made his, which merely
consisted of a rush mat and a blanket that looked as if it was of threadbare canvas rather
than of wool. Next to these two beds was that of the carrier, made up, as has been said, of
the pack-saddles and all the trappings of the two best mules he had, though there were twelve
of them, sleek, plump, and in prime condition, for he was one of the rich carriers of Arevalo,
according to the author of this history, who particularly mentions this carrier because he
knew him very well, and they even say was in some degree a relation of his; besides which Cide
Hamete Benengeli was a historian of great research and accuracy in all things, as is very evident
since he would not pass over in silence those that have been already mentioned, however trifling
and insignificant they might be, an example that might be followed by those grave historians
who relate transactions so curtly and briefly that we hardly get a taste of them, all the substance
of the work being left in the inkstand from carelessness, perverseness, or ignorance. A thousand
blessings on the author of "Tablante de Ricamonte" and that of the other book in which the
deeds of the Conde Tomillas are recounted; with what minuteness they describe everything!

To proceed, then: after having paid a visit to his team and given them their second feed, the
carrier stretched himself on his pack-saddles and lay waiting for his conscientious Maritornes.
Sancho was by this time plastered and had lain down, and though he strove to sleep the pain
of his ribs would not let him, while Don Quixote with the pain of his had his eyes as wide
open as a hare's.

The inn was all in silence, and in the whole of it there was no light except that given by
a lantern that hung burning in the middle of the gateway. This strange stillness, and the thoughts,
always present to our knight's mind, of the incidents described at every turn in the books
that were the cause of his misfortune, conjured up to his imagination as extraordinary a delusion
as can well be conceived, which was that he fancied himself to have reached a famous castle
(for, as has been said, all the inns he lodged in were castles to his eyes), and that the daughter
of the innkeeper was daughter of the lord of the castle, and that she, won by his high-bred
bearing, had fallen in love with him, and had promised to come to his bed for a while that
night without the knowledge of her parents; and holding all this fantasy that he had constructed
as solid fact, he began to feel uneasy and to consider the perilous risk which his virtue was
about to encounter, and he resolved in his heart to commit no treason to his lady Dulcinea
del Toboso, even though the queen Guinevere herself and the dame Quintanona should present
themselves before him.

While he was taken up with these vagaries, then, the time and the hour--an unlucky one for
him--arrived for the Asturian to come, who in her smock, with bare feet and her hair gathered
into a fustian coif, with noiseless and cautious steps entered the chamber where the three
were quartered, in quest of the carrier; but scarcely had she gained the door when Don Quixote
perceived her, and sitting up in his bed in spite of his plasters and the pain of his ribs,
he stretched out his arms to receive his beauteous damsel. The Asturian, who went all doubled
up and in silence with her hands before her feeling for her lover, encountered the arms of
Don Quixote, who grasped her tightly by the wrist, and drawing her towards him, while she dared
not utter a word, made her sit down on the bed. He then felt her smock, and although it was
of sackcloth it appeared to him to be of the finest and softest silk: on her wrists she wore
some glass beads, but to him they had the sheen of precious Orient pearls: her hair, which
in some measure resembled a horse's mane, he rated as threads of the brightest gold of Araby,
whose refulgence dimmed the sun himself: her breath, which no doubt smelt of yesterday's stale
salad, seemed to him to diffuse a sweet aromatic fragrance from her mouth; and, in short, he
drew her portrait in his imagination with the same features and in the same style as that which
he had seen in his books of the other princesses who, smitten by love, came with all the adornments
that are here set down, to see the sorely wounded knight; and so great was the poor gentleman's
blindness that neither touch, nor smell, nor anything else about the good lass that would have
made any but a carrier vomit, were enough to undeceive him; on the contrary, he was persuaded
he had the goddess of beauty in his arms, and holding her firmly in his grasp he went on to
say in low, tender voice:

"Would that found myself, lovely and exalted lady, in a position to repay such a favour as
that which you, by the sight of your great beauty, have granted me; but fortune, which is never
weary of persecuting the good, has chosen to place me upon this bed, where I lie so bruised
and broken that though my inclination would gladly comply with yours it is impossible; besides,
to this impossibility another yet greater is to be added, which is the faith that I have pledged
to the peerless Dulcinea del Toboso, sole lady of my most secret thoughts; and were it not
that this stood in the way I should not be so insensible a knight as to miss the happy opportunity
which your great goodness has offered me."

Maritornes was fretting and sweating at finding herself held so fast by Don Quixote, and not
understanding or heeding the words he addressed to her, she strove without speaking to free
herself. The worthy carrier, whose unholy thoughts kept him awake, was aware of his doxy the
moment she entered the door, and was listening attentively to all Don Quixote said; and jealous
that the Asturian should have broken her word with him for another, drew nearer to Don Quixote's
bed and stood still to see what would come of this talk which he could not understand; but
when he perceived the wench struggling to get free and Don Quixote striving to hold her, not
relishing the joke he raised his arm and delivered such a terrible cuff on the lank jaws of
the amorous knight that he bathed all his mouth in blood, and not content with this he mounted
on his ribs and with his feet tramped all over them at a pace rather smarter than a trot. The
bed which was somewhat crazy and not very firm on its feet, unable to support the additional
weight of the carrier, came to the ground, and at the mighty crash of this the innkeeper awoke
and at once concluded that it must be some brawl of Maritornes', because after calling loudly
to her he got no answer. With this suspicion he got up, and lighting a lamp hastened to the
quarter where he had heard the disturbance. The wench, seeing that her master was coming and
knowing that his temper was terrible, frightened and panic-stricken made for the bed of Sancho
Panza, who still slept, and crouching upon it made a ball of herself.

The innkeeper came in exclaiming, "Where art thou, strumpet? Of course this is some of thy
work." At this Sancho awoke, and feeling this mass almost on top of him fancied he had the
nightmare and began to distribute fisticuffs all round, of which a certain share fell upon
Maritornes, who, irritated by the pain and flinging modesty aside, paid back so many in return
to Sancho that she woke him up in spite of himself. He then, finding himself so handled, by
whom he knew not, raising himself up as well as he could, grappled with Maritornes, and he
and she between them began the bitterest and drollest scrimmage in the world. The carrier,
however, perceiving by the light of the innkeeper candle how it fared with his ladylove, quitting
Don Quixote, ran to bring her the help she needed; and the innkeeper did the same but with
a different intention, for his was to chastise the lass, as he believed that beyond a doubt
she alone was the cause of all the harmony. And so, as the saying is, cat to rat, rat to rope,
rope to stick, the carrier pounded Sancho, Sancho the lass, she him, and the innkeeper her,
and all worked away so briskly that they did not give themselves a moment's rest; and the best
of it was that the innkeeper's lamp went out, and as they were left in the dark they all laid
on one upon the other in a mass so unmercifully that there was not a sound spot left where
a hand could light.

It so happened that there was lodging that night in the inn a caudrillero of what they call
the Old Holy Brotherhood of Toledo, who, also hearing the extraordinary noise of the conflict,
seized his staff and the tin case with his warrants, and made his way in the dark into the
room crying: "Hold! in the name of the Jurisdiction! Hold! in the name of the Holy Brotherhood!"

The first that he came upon was the pummelled Don Quixote, who lay stretched senseless on his
back upon his broken-down bed, and, his hand falling on the beard as he felt about, he continued
to cry, "Help for the Jurisdiction!" but perceiving that he whom he had laid hold of did not
move or stir, he concluded that he was dead and that those in the room were his murderers,
and with this suspicion he raised his voice still higher, calling out, "Shut the inn gate;
see that no one goes out; they have killed a man here!" This cry startled them all, and each
dropped the contest at the point at which the voice reached him. The innkeeper retreated to
his room, the carrier to his pack-saddles, the lass to her crib; the unlucky Don Quixote and
Sancho alone were unable to move from where they were. The cuadrillero on this let go Don Quixote's
beard, and went out to look for a light to search for and apprehend the culprits; but not finding
one, as the innkeeper had purposely extinguished the lantern on retreating to his room, he
was compelled to have recourse to the hearth, where after much time and trouble he lit another
lamp.

"How can I sleep, curses on it!" returned Sancho discontentedly and bitterly, "when it is plain
that all the devils have been at me this night?"

"Thou mayest well believe that," answered Don Quixote, "because, either I know little, or this
castle is enchanted, for thou must know-but this that I am now about to tell thee thou must
swear to keep secret until after my death."

"I swear it," answered Sancho.

"I say so," continued Don Quixote, "because I hate taking away anyone's good name."

"I say," replied Sancho, "that I swear to hold my tongue about it till the end of your worship's
days, and God grant I may be able to let it out tomorrow."

"Do I do thee such injuries, Sancho," said Don Quixote, "that thou wouldst see me dead so soon?"

"It is not for that," replied Sancho, "but because I hate keeping things long, and I don't
want them to grow rotten with me from over-keeping."

"At any rate," said Don Quixote, "I have more confidence in thy affection and good nature;
and so I would have thee know that this night there befell me one of the strangest adventures
that I could describe, and to relate it to thee briefly thou must know that a little while
ago the daughter of the lord of this castle came to me, and that she is the most elegant and
beautiful damsel that could be found in the wide world. What I could tell thee of the charms
of her person! of her lively wit! of other secret matters which, to preserve the fealty I owe
to my lady Dulcinea del Toboso, I shall pass over unnoticed and in silence! I will only tell
thee that, either fate being envious of so great a boon placed in my hands by good fortune,
or perhaps (and this is more probable) this castle being, as I have already said, enchanted,
at the time when I was engaged in the sweetest and most amorous discourse with her, there came,
without my seeing or knowing whence it came, a hand attached to some arm of some huge giant,
that planted such a cuff on my jaws that I have them all bathed in blood, and then pummelled
me in such a way that I am in a worse plight than yesterday when the carriers, on account of
Rocinante's misbehaviour, inflicted on us the injury thou knowest of; whence conjecture that
there must be some enchanted Moor guarding the treasure of this damsel's beauty, and that it
is not for me."

"Not for me either," said Sancho, "for more than four hundred Moors have so thrashed me that
the drubbing of the stakes was cakes and fancy-bread to it. But tell me, senor, what do you
call this excellent and rare adventure that has left us as we are left now? Though your worship
was not so badly off, having in your arms that incomparable beauty you spoke of; but I, what
did I have, except the heaviest whacks I think I had in all my life? Unlucky me and the mother
that bore me! for I am not a knight-errant and never expect to be one, and of all the mishaps,
the greater part falls to my share."

"Then thou hast been thrashed too?" said Don Quixote.

"Didn't I say so? worse luck to my line!" said Sancho.

"Be not distressed, friend," said Don Quixote, "for I will now make the precious balsam with
which we shall cure ourselves in the twinkling of an eye."

By this time the cuadrillero had succeeded in lighting the lamp, and came in to see the man
that he thought had been killed; and as Sancho caught sight of him at the door, seeing him
coming in his shirt, with a cloth on his head, and a lamp in his hand, and a very forbidding
countenance, he said to his master, "Senor, can it be that this is the enchanted Moor coming
back to give us more castigation if there be anything still left in the ink-bottle?"

"It cannot be the Moor," answered Don Quixote, "for those under enchantment do not let themselves
be seen by anyone."

"If they don't let themselves be seen, they let themselves be felt," said Sancho; "if not,
let my shoulders speak to the point."

"Mine could speak too," said Don Quixote, "but that is not a sufficient reason for believing
that what we see is the enchanted Moor."

The officer came up, and finding them engaged in such a peaceful conversation, stood amazed;
though Don Quixote, to be sure, still lay on his back unable to move from pure pummelling and
plasters. The officer turned to him and said, "Well, how goes it, good man?"

"I would speak more politely if I were you," replied Don Quixote; "is it the way of this country
to address knights-errant in that style, you booby?"

The cuadrillero finding himself so disrespectfully treated by such a sorry-looking individual,
lost his temper, and raising the lamp full of oil, smote Don Quixote such a blow with it on
the head that he gave him a badly broken pate; then, all being in darkness, he went out, and
Sancho Panza said, "That is certainly the enchanted Moor, Senor, and he keeps the treasure
for others, and for us only the cuffs and lamp-whacks."

"That is the truth," answered Don Quixote, "and there is no use in troubling oneself about
these matters of enchantment or being angry or vexed at them, for as they are invisible and
visionary we shall find no one on whom to avenge ourselves, do what we may; rise, Sancho, if
thou canst, and call the alcaide of this fortress, and get him to give me a little oil, wine,
salt, and rosemary to make the salutiferous balsam, for indeed I believe I have great need
of it now, because I am losing much blood from the wound that phantom gave me."

Sancho got up with pain enough in his bones, and went after the innkeeper in the dark, and
meeting the officer, who was looking to see what had become of his enemy, he said to him, "Senor,
whoever you are, do us the favour and kindness to give us a little rosemary, oil, salt, and
wine, for it is wanted to cure one of the best knights-errant on earth, who lies on yonder
bed wounded by the hands of the enchanted Moor that is in this inn."

When the officer heard him talk in this way, he took him for a man out of his senses, and as
day was now beginning to break, he opened the inn gate, and calling the host, he told him what
this good man wanted. The host furnished him with what he required, and Sancho brought it to
Don Quixote, who, with his hand to his head, was bewailing the pain of the blow of the lamp,
which had done him no more harm than raising a couple of rather large lumps, and what he fancied
blood was only the sweat that flowed from him in his sufferings during the late storm. To be
brief, he took the materials, of which he made a compound, mixing them all and boiling them
a good while until it seemed to him they had come to perfection. He then asked for some vial
to pour it into, and as there was not one in the inn, he decided on putting it into a tin oil-bottle
or flask of which the host made him a free gift; and over the flask he repeated more than eighty
paternosters and as many more ave-marias, salves, and credos, accompanying each word with a
cross by way of benediction, at all which there were present Sancho, the innkeeper, and the
cuadrillero; for the carrier was now peacefully engaged in attending to the comfort of his mules.

This being accomplished, he felt anxious to make trial himself, on the spot, of the virtue
of this precious balsam, as he considered it, and so he drank near a quart of what could not
be put into the flask and remained in the pigskin in which it had been boiled; but scarcely
had he done drinking when he began to vomit in such a way that nothing was left in his stomach,
and with the pangs and spasms of vomiting he broke into a profuse sweat, on account of which
he bade them cover him up and leave him alone. They did so, and he lay sleeping more than three
hours, at the end of which he awoke and felt very great bodily relief and so much ease from
his bruises that he thought himself quite cured, and verily believed he had hit upon the balsam
of Fierabras; and that with this remedy he might thenceforward, without any fear, face any
kind of destruction, battle, or combat, however perilous it might be.

Sancho Panza, who also regarded the amendment of his master as miraculous, begged him to give
him what was left in the pigskin, which was no small quantity. Don Quixote consented, and he,
taking it with both hands, in good faith and with a better will, gulped down and drained off
very little less than his master. But the fact is, that the stomach of poor Sancho was of necessity
not so delicate as that of his master, and so, before vomiting, he was seized with such gripings
and retchings, and such sweats and faintness, that verily and truly be believed his last hour
had come, and finding himself so racked and tormented he cursed the balsam and the thief that
had given it to him.

Don Quixote seeing him in this state said, "It is my belief, Sancho, that this mischief comes
of thy not being dubbed a knight, for I am persuaded this liquor cannot be good for those who
are not so."

"If your worship knew that," returned Sancho--"woe betide me and all my kindred!--why did you
let me taste it?"

At this moment the draught took effect, and the poor squire began to discharge both ways at
such a rate that the rush mat on which he had thrown himself and the canvas blanket he had
covering him were fit for nothing afterwards. He sweated and perspired with such paroxysms
and convulsions that not only he himself but all present thought his end had come. This tempest
and tribulation lasted about two hours, at the end of which he was left, not like his master,
but so weak and exhausted that he could not stand. Don Quixote, however, who, as has been said,
felt himself relieved and well, was eager to take his departure at once in quest of adventures,
as it seemed to him that all the time he loitered there was a fraud upon the world and those
in it who stood in need of his help and protection, all the more when he had the security and
confidence his balsam afforded him; and so, urged by this impulse, he saddled Rocinante himself
and put the pack-saddle on his squire's beast, whom likewise he helped to dress and mount the
ass; after which he mounted his horse and turning to a corner of the inn he laid hold of a
pike that stood there, to serve him by way of a lance. All that were in the inn, who were more
than twenty persons, stood watching him; the innkeeper's daughter was likewise observing him,
and he too never took his eyes off her, and from time to time fetched a sigh that he seemed
to pluck up from the depths of his bowels; but they all thought it must be from the pain he
felt in his ribs; at any rate they who had seen him plastered the night before thought so.

As soon as they were both mounted, at the gate of the inn, he called to the host and said in
a very grave and measured voice, "Many and great are the favours, Senor Alcaide, that I have
received in this castle of yours, and I remain under the deepest obligation to be grateful
to you for them all the days of my life; if I can repay them in avenging you of any arrogant
foe who may have wronged you, know that my calling is no other than to aid the weak, to avenge
those who suffer wrong, and to chastise perfidy. Search your memory, and if you find anything
of this kind you need only tell me of it, and I promise you by the order of knighthood which
I have received to procure you satisfaction and reparation to the utmost of your desire."

The innkeeper replied to him with equal calmness, "Sir Knight, I do not want your worship to
avenge me of any wrong, because when any is done me I can take what vengeance seems good to
me; the only thing I want is that you pay me the score that you have run up in the inn last
night, as well for the straw and barley for your two beasts, as for supper and beds."

"Then this is an inn?" said Don Quixote.

"And a very respectable one," said the innkeeper.

"I have been under a mistake all this time," answered Don Quixote, "for in truth I thought
it was a castle, and not a bad one; but since it appears that it is not a castle but an inn,
all that can be done now is that you should excuse the payment, for I cannot contravene the
rule of knights-errant, of whom I know as a fact (and up to the present I have read nothing
to the contrary) that they never paid for lodging or anything else in the inn where they might
be; for any hospitality that might be offered them is their due by law and right in return
for the insufferable toil they endure in seeking adventures by night and by day, in summer
and in winter, on foot and on horseback, in hunger and thirst, cold and heat, exposed to all
the inclemencies of heaven and all the hardships of earth."

"I have little to do with that," replied the innkeeper; "pay me what you owe me, and let us
have no more talk of chivalry, for all I care about is to get my money."

"You are a stupid, scurvy innkeeper," said Don Quixote, and putting spurs to Rocinante and
bringing his pike to the slope he rode out of the inn before anyone could stop him, and pushed
on some distance without looking to see if his squire was following him.

The innkeeper when he saw him go without paying him ran to get payment of Sancho, who said
that as his master would not pay neither would he, because, being as he was squire to a knight-errant,
the same rule and reason held good for him as for his master with regard to not paying anything
in inns and hostelries. At this the innkeeper waxed very wroth, and threatened if he did not
pay to compel him in a way that he would not like. To which Sancho made answer that by the
law of chivalry his master had received he would not pay a rap, though it cost him his life;
for the excellent and ancient usage of knights-errant was not going to be violated by him,
nor should the squires of such as were yet to come into the world ever complain of him or reproach
him with breaking so just a privilege.

The ill-luck of the unfortunate Sancho so ordered it that among the company in the inn there
were four woolcarders from Segovia, three needle-makers from the Colt of Cordova, and two lodgers
from the Fair of Seville, lively fellows, tender-hearted, fond of a joke, and playful, who,
almost as if instigated and moved by a common impulse, made up to Sancho and dismounted him
from his ass, while one of them went in for the blanket of the host's bed; but on flinging
him into it they looked up, and seeing that the ceiling was somewhat lower what they required
for their work, they decided upon going out into the yard, which was bounded by the sky, and
there, putting Sancho in the middle of the blanket, they began to raise him high, making sport
with him as they would with a dog at Shrovetide.

The cries of the poor blanketed wretch were so loud that they reached the ears of his master,
who, halting to listen attentively, was persuaded that some new adventure was coming, until
he clearly perceived that it was his squire who uttered them. Wheeling about he came up to
the inn with a laborious gallop, and finding it shut went round it to see if he could find
some way of getting in; but as soon as he came to the wall of the yard, which was not very
high, he discovered the game that was being played with his squire. He saw him rising and falling
in the air with such grace and nimbleness that, had his rage allowed him, it is my belief he
would have laughed. He tried to climb from his horse on to the top of the wall, but he was
so bruised and battered that he could not even dismount; and so from the back of his horse
he began to utter such maledictions and objurgations against those who were blanketing Sancho
as it would be impossible to write down accurately: they, however, did not stay their laughter
or their work for this, nor did the flying Sancho cease his lamentations, mingled now with
threats, now with entreaties but all to little purpose, or none at all, until from pure weariness
they left off. They then brought him his ass, and mounting him on top of it they put his jacket
round him; and the compassionate Maritornes, seeing him so exhausted, thought fit to refresh
him with a jug of water, and that it might be all the cooler she fetched it from the well.
Sancho took it, and as he was raising it to his mouth he was stopped by the cries of his master
exclaiming, "Sancho, my son, drink not water; drink it not, my son, for it will kill thee;
see, here I have the blessed balsam (and he held up the flask of liquor), and with drinking
two drops of it thou wilt certainly be restored."

At these words Sancho turned his eyes asquint, and in a still louder voice said, "Can it be
your worship has forgotten that I am not a knight, or do you want me to end by vomiting up
what bowels I have left after last night? Keep your liquor in the name of all the devils, and
leave me to myself!" and at one and the same instant he left off talking and began drinking;
but as at the first sup he perceived it was water he did not care to go on with it, and begged
Maritornes to fetch him some wine, which she did with right good will, and paid for it with
her own money; for indeed they say of her that, though she was in that line of life, there
was some faint and distant resemblance to a Christian about her. When Sancho had done drinking
he dug his heels into his ass, and the gate of the inn being thrown open he passed out very
well pleased at having paid nothing and carried his point, though it had been at the expense
of his usual sureties, his shoulders. It is true that the innkeeper detained his alforjas in
payment of what was owing to him, but Sancho took his departure in such a flurry that he never
missed them. The innkeeper, as soon as he saw him off, wanted to bar the gate close, but the
blanketers would not agree to it, for they were fellows who would not have cared two farthings
for Don Quixote, even had he been really one of the knights-errant of the Round Table.

