We must confess that we read the first part of Evangeline with something of the feeling so
forcibly expressed by Professor Wright.  The natural and honest indignation with which, many
years ago, we read for the first time that dark page of our Colonial history--the expulsion
of the French neutrals--was reawakened by the simple pathos of the poem; and we longed to find
an adequate expression of it in the burning language of the poet. We marvelled that he who
could so touch the heart by his description of the sad suffering of the Acadian peasants should
have permitted the authors of that suffering to escape without censure.  The outburst of the
stout Basil, in the church of Grand Pre, was, we are fain to acknowledge, a great relief to
us.  But, before reaching the close of the volume, we were quite reconciled to the author's
forbearance.  The design of the poem is manifestly incompatible with stern "rhadamanthine justice"
and indignant denunciation of wrong.  It is a simple story of quiet pastoral happiness, of
great sorrow and painful bereavement, and of the endurance of a love which, hoping and seeking
always, wanders evermore up and down the wilderness of the world, baffled at every turn, yet
still retaining faith in God and in the object of its lifelong quest.  It was no part of the
writer's object to investigate the merits of the question at issue between the poor Acadians
and their Puritan neighbors.  Looking at the materials before him with the eye of an artist
simply, he has arranged them to suit his idea of the beautiful and pathetic, leaving to some
future historian the duty of sitting in judgment upon the actors in the atrocious outrage which
furnished them.  With this we are content.  The poem now has unity and sweetness which might
have been destroyed by attempting to avenge the wrongs it so vividly depicts.  It is a psalm
of love and forgiveness: the gentleness and peace of Christian meekness and forbearance breathe
through it.  Not a word of censure is directly applied to the marauding workers of the mighty
sorrow which it describes just as it would a calamity from the elements,--a visitation of God.
The reader, however, cannot fail to award justice to the wrong-doers.  The unresisting acquiescence
of the Acadians only deepens his detestation of the cupidity and religious bigotry of their
spoilers.

How does this simple prayer of the Acadians contrast with the "deep damnation of their taking off!"

The true history of the Puritans of New England is yet to be written. Somewhere midway between
the caricatures of the Church party and the self-laudations of their own writers the point
may doubtless be found from whence an impartial estimate of their character may be formed.
They had noble qualities: the firmness and energy which they displayed in the colonization
of New England must always command admiration.  We would not rob them, were it in our power
to do so, of one jot or tittle of their rightful honor.  But, with all the lights which we
at present possess, we cannot allow their claim of saintship without some degree of qualification.
How they seemed to their Dutch neighbors at New Netherlands, and their French ones at Nova
Scotia, and to the poor Indians, hunted from their fisheries and game-grounds, we can very
well conjecture.  It may be safely taken for granted that their gospel claim to the inheritance
of the earth was not a little questionable to the Catholic fleeing for his life from their
jurisdiction, to the banished Baptist shaking off the dust of his feet against them, and to
the martyred Quaker denouncing woe and judgment upon them from the steps of the gallows.  Most
of them were, beyond a doubt, pious and sincere; but we are constrained to believe that among
them were those who wore the livery of heaven from purely selfish motives, in a community where
church-membership was an indispensable requisite, the only open sesame before which the doors
of honor and distinction swung wide to needy or ambitious aspirants.  Mere adventurers, men
of desperate fortunes, bankrupts in character and purse, contrived to make gain of godliness
under the church and state government of New England, put on the austere exterior of sanctity,
quoted Scripture, anathematized heretics, whipped Quakers, exterminated Indians, burned and
spoiled the villages of their Catholic neighbors, and hewed down their graven images and "houses
of Rimmon."  It is curious to observe how a fierce religious zeal against heathen and idolaters
went hand in hand with the old Anglo-Saxon love of land and plunder.  Every crusade undertaken
against the Papists of the French colonies had its Puritan Peter the Hermit to summon the saints
to the wars of the Lord.  At the siege of Louisburg, ten years before the onslaught upon the
Acadian settlers, one minister marched with the Colonial troops, axe in hand, to hew down the
images in the French churches; while another officiated in the double capacity of drummer and
chaplain,--a "drum ecclesiastic," as Hudibras has it.

At the late celebration of the landing of the Pilgrims in New York, the orator of the day labored
at great length to show that the charge of intolerance, as urged against the colonists of New
England, is unfounded in fact.  The banishment of the Catholics was very sagaciously passed
over in silence, inasmuch as the Catholic Bishop of New York was one of the invited guests,
and (hear it, shade of Cotton Mather!) one of the regular toasts was a compliment to the Pope.
The expulsion of Roger Williams was excused and partially justified; while the whipping, ear-
cropping, tongue-boring, and hanging of the Quakers was defended, as the only effectual method
of dealing with such devil-driven heretics, as Mather calls them.  The orator, in the new-born
zeal of his amateur Puritanism, stigmatizes the persecuted class as "fanatics and ranters,
foaming forth their mad opinions;" compares them to the Mormons and the crazy followers of
Mathias; and cites an instance of a poor enthusiast, named Eccles, who, far gone in the "tailor's
melancholy," took it into his head that he must enter into a steeple-house pulpit and stitch
breeches "in singing time,"--a circumstance, by the way, which took place in Old England,--as
a justification of the atrocious laws of the Massachusetts Colony.  We have not the slightest
disposition to deny the fanaticism and folly of some few professed Quakers in that day; and
had the Puritans treated them as the Pope did one of their number whom he found crazily holding
forth in the church of St. Peter, and consigned them to the care of physicians as religious
monomaniacs, no sane man could have blamed them.  Every sect, in its origin, and especially
in its time of persecution, has had its fanatics.  The early Christians, if we may credit the
admissions of their own writers or attach the slightest credence to the statements of pagan
authors, were by no means exempt from reproach and scandal in this respect.  Were the Puritans
themselves the men to cast stones at the Quakers and Baptists?  Had they not, in the view at
least of the Established Church, turned all England upside down with their fanaticisms and
extravagances of doctrine and conduct?  How look they as depicted in the sermons of Dr. South,
in the sarcastic pages of Hudibras, and the coarse caricatures of the clerical wits of the
times of the second Charles?  With their own backs scored and their ears cropped for the crime
of denying the divine authority of church and state in England, were they the men to whip Baptists
and hang Quakers for doing the same thing in Massachusetts?

Of all that is noble and true in the Puritan character we are sincere admirers.  The generous
and self-denying apostleship of Eliot is, of itself, a beautiful page in their history.  The
physical daring and hardihood with which, amidst the times of savage warfare, they laid the
foundations of mighty states, and subdued the rugged soil, and made the wilderness blossom;
their steadfast adherence to their religious principles, even when the Restoration had made
apostasy easy and profitable; and the vigilance and firmness with which, under all circumstances,
they held fast their chartered liberties and extorted new rights and privileges from the reluctant
home government,--justly entitle them to the grateful remembrance of a generation now reaping
the fruits of their toils and sacrifices.  But, in expressing our gratitude to the founders
of New England, we should not forget what is due to truth and justice; nor, for the sake of
vindicating them from the charge of that religious intolerance which, at the time, they shared
with nearly all Christendom, undertake to defend, in the light of the nineteenth century, opinions
and practices hostile to the benignant spirit of the gospel and subversive of the inherent
rights of man.

                            MIRTH AND MEDICINE

               A review of Poems by Oliver Wendell Holmes.

IF any of our readers (and at times we fear it is the case with all) need amusement and the
wholesome alterative of a hearty laugh, we commend them, not to Dr. Holmes the physician, but
to Dr. Holmes the scholar, the wit, and the humorist; not to the scientific medical professor's
barbarous Latin, but to his poetical prescriptions, given in choice old Saxon.  We have tried
them, and are ready to give the Doctor certificates of their efficacy.

Looking at the matter from the point of theory only, we should say that a physician could not
be otherwise than melancholy.  A merry doctor!  Why, one might as well talk of a laughing death's-head,--the
cachinnation of a monk's memento mori.  This life of ours is sorrowful enough at its best estate;
the brightest phase of it is "sicklied o'er with the pale cast" of the future or the past.
But it is the special vocation of the doctor to look only upon the shadow; to turn away from
the house of feasting and go down to that of mourning; to breathe day after day the atmosphere
of wretchedness; to grow familiar with suffering; to look upon humanity disrobed of its pride
and glory, robbed of all its fictitious ornaments, --weak, helpless, naked,--and undergoing
the last fearful metempsychosis from its erect and godlike image, the living temple of an enshrined
divinity, to the loathsome clod and the inanimate dust.  Of what ghastly secrets of moral and
physical disease is he the depositary!  There is woe before him and behind him; he is hand
and glove with misery by prescription,--the ex officio gauger of the ills that flesh is heir
to. He has no home, unless it be at the bedside of the querulous, the splenetic, the sick,
and the dying.  He sits down to carve his turkey, and is summoned off to a post-mortem examination
of another sort.  All the diseases which Milton's imagination embodied in the lazar-house dog
his footsteps and pluck at his doorbell.  Hurrying from one place to another at their beck,
he knows nothing of the quiet comfort of the "sleek-headed men who sleep o' nights."  His wife,
if he has one, has an undoubted right to advertise him as a deserter of "bed and board."  His
ideas of beauty, the imaginations of his brain, and the affections of his heart are regulated
and modified by the irrepressible associations of his luckless profession.  Woman as well as
man is to him of the earth, earthy.  He sees incipient disease where the uninitiated see only
delicacy.  A smile reminds him of his dental operations; a blushing cheek of his hectic patients;
pensive melancholy is dyspepsia; sentimentalism, nervousness.  Tell him of lovelorn hearts,
of the "worm I' the bud," of the mental impalement upon Cupid's arrow, like that of a giaour
upon the spear of a janizary, and he can only think of lack of exercise, of tightlacing, and
slippers in winter.  Sheridan seems to have understood all this, if we may judge from the lament
of his Doctor, in St. Patrick's Day, over his deceased helpmate.  "Poor dear Dolly," says he.
"I shall never see her like again; such an arm for a bandage!  veins that seemed to invite
the lancet!  Then her skin,--smooth and white as a gallipot; her mouth as round and not larger
than that of a penny vial; and her teeth,--none of your sturdy fixtures,--ache as they would,
it was only a small pull, and out they came.  I believe I have drawn half a score of her dear
pearls.  [Weeps.] But what avails her beauty?  She has gone, and left no little babe to hang
like a label on papa's neck!"

So much for speculation and theory.  In practice it is not so bad after all.  The grave-digger
in Hamlet has his jokes and grim jests.  We have known many a jovial sexton; and we have heard
clergymen laugh heartily at small provocation close on the heel of a cool calculation that
the great majority of their fellow-creatures were certain of going straight to perdition. 
Why, then, should not even the doctor have his fun?  Nay, is it not his duty to be merry, by
main force if necessary?  Solomon, who, from his great knowledge of herbs, must have been no
mean practitioner for his day, tells us that "a merry heart doeth good like a medicine;" and
universal experience has confirmed the truth of his maxim.  Hence it is, doubtless, that we
have so many anecdotes of facetious doctors, distributing their pills and jokes together, shaking
at the same time the contents of their vials and the sides of their patients.  It is merely
professional, a trick of the practice, unquestionably, in most cases; but sometimes it is a
"natural gift," like that of the "bonesetters," and "scrofula strokers," and "cancer curers,"
who carry on a sort of guerilla war with human maladies.  Such we know to be the case with
Dr. Holmes. He was born for the "laughter cure," as certainly as Priessnitz was for the "water
cure," and has been quite as successful in his way, while his prescriptions are infinitely
more agreeable.

The volume now before us gives, in addition to the poems and lyrics contained in the two previous
editions, some hundred or more pages of the later productions of the author, in the sprightly
vein, and marked by the brilliant fancy and felicitous diction for which the former were noteworthy.
His longest and most elaborate poem, Urania, is perhaps the best specimen of his powers.  Its
general tone is playful and humorous; but there are passages of great tenderness and pathos.
Witness the following, from a description of the city churchgoers.  The whole compass of our
literature has few passages to equal its melody and beauty.

This is but one of many passages, showing that the author is capable of moving the heart as
well as of tickling the fancy.  There is no straining for effect; simple, natural thoughts
are expressed in simple and perfectly transparent language.

The lines On Lending a Punch-Bowl are highly characteristic.  Nobody but Holmes could have
conjured up so many rare fancies in connection with such a matter.

In his Nux Postcoenatica he gives us his reflections on being invited to a dinner-party, where
he was expected to "set the table in a roar" by reading funny verses.  He submits it to the
judgment and common sense of the importunate bearer of the invitation, that this dinner-going,
ballad- making, mirth-provoking habit is not likely to benefit his reputation as a medical
professor.

