Although Mr. Lockhart hung back from the proposed editorship, he nevertheless carried out his
intention of visiting Mr. Murray in London a few weeks after the date of the above letter.
Mr. J.T. Coleridge had expressed his desire to resign the editorship of the Quarterly, in consequence
of his rapidly increasing practice on the western circuit, and Mr. Lockhart was sounded as
to his willingness to become his successor. Mr. Murray entertained the hope that he might be
able to give a portion of his time to rendering some assistance in the management of the proposed
newspaper. As Sir Walter Scott had been taken into their counsels, through the medium of Mr.
Disraeli, Mr. Murray proceeded to correspond with him on the subject. From the draft of one
of Mr. Murray's letters we extract the following:

John Murray to Sir Walter Scott.

October 13, 1825.

MY DEAR SIR WALTER,

I feel greatly obliged by the favour of your kind letter, and for the good opinion which you
are disposed to entertain of certain plans, of which you will by degrees be enabled to form,
I hope, a still more satisfactory estimate. At present, I will take the liberty of assuring
you, that after your confidence in me, I will neither propose nor think of anything respecting
Mr. Lockhart that has not clearly for its basis the honour of his family. With regard to our
Great Plan--which really ought not to be designated a newspaper, as that department of literature
has hitherto been conducted--Mr. Lockhart was never intended to have anything to do as editor:
for we have already secured two most efficient and respectable persons to fill that department.
I merely wished to receive his general advice and assistance. And Mr. Lockhart would only be
known or suspected to be the author of certain papers of grave national importance. The more
we have thought and talked over our plans, the more certain are we of their inevitable success,
and of their leading us to certain power, reputation, and fortune. For myself, the heyday of
my youth is passed, though I may be allowed certain experience in my profession. I have acquired
a moderate fortune, and have a certain character, and move now in the first circles of society;
and I have a family: these, I hope, may be some fair pledge to you that I would not engage
in this venture with any hazard, when all that is dearest to man would be my loss.

In order, however, to completely obviate any difficulties which have been urged, I have proposed
to Mr. Lockhart to come to London as the editor of the Quarterly--an appointment which, I verily
believe, is coveted by many of the highest literary characters in the country, and which, of
itself, would entitle its possessor to enter into and mix with the first classes of society.
For this, and without writing a line, but merely for performing the duties of an editor, I
shall have the pleasure of allowing him a thousand pounds a year; and this, with contributions
of his own, might easily become £1,500, and take no serious portion of his time either. Then,
for his connection with the paper, he will become permanently interested in a share we can
guarantee to him for three years, and which, I am confident, will be worth, at the end of that
period, at least £3,000; and the profits from that share will not be less than £1,500 per annum.
I have lately heard, from good authority, that the annual profit of the Times is £40,000, and
that a share in the Courier sold last week (wretchedly conducted, it seems) at the rate of
£100,000 for the property.

But this is not all. You know well enough that the business of a publishing bookseller is not
in his shop or even his connection, but in his brains; and we can put forward together a series
of valuable literary works, and without, observe me, in any of these plans, the slightest risk
to Mr. Lockhart. And I do most solemnly assure you that if I may take any credit to myself
for possessing anything like sound judgment in my profession, the things which we shall immediately
begin upon, as Mr. Lockhart will explain to you, are as perfectly certain of commanding a great
sale as anything I ever had the good fortune to engage in.

Lockhart finally accepted the editorship of the Quarterly, after negotiations which brought
Mr. Disraeli on a second visit to Scotland, but he undertook no formal responsibility for the
new daily paper.

In London Disraeli was indefatigable. He visited City men, for the purpose of obtaining articles
on commercial subjects. He employed an architect, Mr. G. Basevi, jun., his cousin, with a view
to the planning of offices and printing premises. A large house was eventually taken in Great
George Street, Westminster, and duly fitted up as a printing office.

He then proceeded, in common with Mr. Murray, to make arrangements for the foreign correspondence.
In the summer of 1824--before the new enterprise was thought of--he had travelled in the Rhine
country, and made some pleasant acquaintances, of whom he now bethought himself when making
arrangements for the new paper. One of them was Mr. Maas, of the Trierscher Hof, Coblentz,
and Mr. Disraeli addressed him as follows:

Mr. B. Disraeli to Mr. Maas.

October 25, 1825.

DEAR SIR,

Your hospitality, which I have twice enjoyed, convinces me that you will not consider this
as an intrusion. My friend, Mr. Murray, of Albemarle Street, London, the most eminent publisher
that we have, is about to establish a daily journal of the first importance. With his great
influence and connections, there is no doubt that he will succeed in his endeavour to make
it the focus of the information of the whole world. Among other places at which he wishes to
have correspondents is the Rhine, and he has applied to me for my advice upon this point. It
has struck me that Coblentz is a very good situation for intelligence. Its proximity to the
Rhine and the Moselle, its contiguity to the beautiful baths of the Taunus, and the innumerable
travellers who pass through it, and spread everywhere the fame of your admirable hotel, all
conduce to make it a place from which much interesting intelligence might be procured.

The most celebrated men in Europe have promised their assistance to Mr. Murray in his great
project. I wish to know whether you can point out any one to him who will occasionally write
him a letter from your city. Intelligence as to the company at Wiesbaden and Ems, and of the
persons of eminence, particularly English, who pass through Coblentz, of the travellers down
the Rhine, and such topics, are very interesting to us. You yourself would make a most admirable
correspondent. The labour would be very light and very agreeable; and Mr. Murray would take
care to acknowledge your kindness by various courtesies. If you object to say anything about
politics you can omit mentioning the subject. I wish you would undertake it, as I am sure you
would write most agreeable letters. Once a month would be sufficient, or rather write whenever
you have anything that you think interesting. Will you be so kind as to write me in answer
what you think of this proposal? The communication may be carried on in any language you please.

Last year when I was at Coblentz you were kind enough to show me a very pretty collection of
ancient glass. Pray is it yet to be purchased? I think I know an English gentleman who would
be happy to possess it. I hope this will not be the last letter which passes between us.

I am, dear Sir,

Yours most truly,

B. DISRAELI.

Mr. Maas agreed to Mr. Disraeli's proposal, and his letter was handed to Mr. Murray, who gave
him further instructions as to the foreign correspondence which he required. Mr. Murray himself
wrote to correspondents at Hamburg, Maestricht, Genoa, Trieste, Gibraltar, and other places,
with the same object.

The time for the publication of the newspaper was rapidly approaching, and Mr. B. Disraeli's
correspondence on the subject of the engagement of a staff became fast and furious.

By the end of December Mr. Lockhart had arrived in London, for the purpose of commencing his
editorship of the Quarterly Review. The name of the new morning paper had not then been yet
fixed on; from the correspondence respecting it, we find that some spoke of it as the Daily
Review, others as the Morning News, and so on; but that Mr. Benjamin Disraeli settled the matter
appears from the following letter of Mr. Lockhart to Mr. Murray:

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

December 21, 1825.

MY DEAR SIR,

I am delighted, and, what is more, satisfied with Disraeli's title--the Representative. If
Mr. Powles does not produce some thundering objection, let this be fixed, in God's name.

Strange to say, from this time forward nothing more is heard of Mr. Benjamin Disraeli in connection
with the Representative. After his two Journeys to Scotland, his interviews with Sir Walter
Scott and Mr. Lockhart, his activity in making arrangements previous to the starting of the
daily paper, his communications with the architect as to the purchase and fitting up of the
premises in Great George Street, and with the solicitors as to the proposed deed of partnership,
he suddenly drops out of sight; and nothing more is heard of him in connection with the business.

It would appear that when the time arrived for the proprietors of the new paper to provide
the necessary capital under the terms of the memorandum of agreement dated August 3, 1825,
both Mr. Disraeli and Mr. Powles failed to contribute their several proportions. Mr. Murray
had indeed already spent a considerable sum, and entered into agreements for the purchase of
printing-offices, printing-machines, types, and all the paraphernalia of a newspaper establishment.
He had engaged reporters, correspondents, printers, sub-editors, though he still wanted an
efficient editor. He was greatly disappointed at not being able to obtain the services of Mr.
Lockhart. Mr. Disraeli was too young--being then only twenty-one, and entirely inexperienced
in the work of conducting a daily paper--to be entrusted with the editorship. Indeed, it is
doubtful whether he ever contemplated occupying that position, though he had engaged himself
most sedulously in the preliminary arrangements in one department, his endeavours to obtain
the assistance of men of commerce in the City; however, he was by no means successful. Nevertheless,
Mr. Murray was so far committed that he felt bound to go on with the enterprise, and he advertised
the publication of the new morning paper. Some of his friends congratulated him on the announcement,
trusting that they might see on their breakfast-table a paper which their wives and daughters
might read without a blush.

The first number of the Representative accordingly appeared on January 25, 1826, price 7d.;
the Stamp Tax was then 4d. In politics it was a supporter of Lord Liverpool's Government; but
public distress, the currency, trade and commerce were subjects of independent comment.

Notwithstanding the pains which had been taken, and the money which had been spent, the Representative
was a failure from the beginning. It was badly organized, badly edited, and its contents--leading
articles, home and foreign news--were ill-balanced. Failing Lockhart, an editor, named Tyndale,
had been appointed on short notice, though he was an obscure and uninfluential person. He soon
disappeared in favour of others, who were no better. Dr. Maginn [Footnote: Dr. Maginn's papers
in Blackwood are or should be known to the reader. The Murray correspondence contains many
characteristic letters from this jovial and impecunious Irishman. He is generally supposed
to have been the prototype of Thackeray's Captain Shandon.--T.M.] had been engaged--the Morgan
O'Doherty of Blackwood's Magazine--wit, scholar, and Bohemian. He was sent to Paris, where
he evidently enjoyed himself; but the results, as regarded the Representative, were by no means
satisfactory. He was better at borrowing money than at writing articles.

Mr. S.C. Hall, one of the parliamentary reporters of the paper, says, in his "Retrospect of
a Long Life," that:

"The day preceding the issue of the first number, Mr. Murray might have obtained a very large
sum for a shore of the copyright, of which he was the sole proprietor; the day after that issue,
the copyright was worth comparatively nothing.... Editor there was literally none, from the
beginning to the end. The first number supplied conclusive evidence of the utter ignorance
of editorial tact on the part of the person entrusted with the duty.... In short, the work
was badly done; if not a snare, it was a delusion; and the reputation of the new journal fell
below zero in twenty-four hours." [Footnote: "Retrospect of a Long Life, from 1815 to 1883."
By S.C. Hall, F.S.A., i. p. 126.]

An inspection of the file of the Representative justifies Mr. Hall's remarks. The first number
contained an article by Lockhart, four columns in length, on the affairs of Europe. It was
correct and scholar-like, but tame and colourless. Incorrectness in a leading article may be
tolerated, but dulness amounts to a literary crime. The foreign correspondence consisted of
a letter from Valetta, and a communication from Paris, more than a column in length, relating
to French opera. In the matter of news, for which the dailies are principally purchased, the
first number was exceedingly defective. It is hard to judge of the merits of a new journal
from the first number, which must necessarily labour under many disadvantages, but the Representative
did not from the first exhibit any element of success.

Mr. Murray found his new enterprise an increasing source of annoyance and worry. His health
broke down under the strain, and when he was confined to his bed by illness things went worse
from day to day. The usual publishing business was neglected; letters remained unanswered,
manuscripts remained unread, and some correspondents became excessively angry at their communications
being neglected.

Mr. Murray's worries were increased by the commercial crisis then prevailing, and by the downfall
of many large publishing houses. It was feared that Mr. Murray might be implicated in the failures.
At the end of January, the great firm of Archibald Constable & Co., of Edinburgh publishers
of Sir Walter Scott's novels, was declared bankrupt; shortly after, the failure was announced
of James Ballantyne & Co., in which Sir Walter Scott was a partner; and with these houses,
that of Hurst, Kobinson & Co., of London, was hopelessly involved. The market was flooded with
the dishonoured paper of all these concerns, and mercantile confidence in the great publishing
houses was almost at an end. We find Washington Irving communicating the following intelligence
to A.H. Everett, United States Minister at Madrid (January 31, 1826):

"You will perceive by the papers the failure of Constable & Co., at Edinburgh, and Hurst, Robinson
& Co., at London. These are severe shocks in the trading world of literature. Pray Heaven,
Murray may stand unmoved, and not go into the Gazette, instead of publishing one!"

Mr. Murray held his ground. He was not only able to pay his way, but to assist some of the
best-known London publishers through the pressure of their difficulties. One of these was Mr.
Robert Baldwin, of Paternoster Row, who expressed his repeated obligations to Mr. Murray for
his help in time of need. The events of this crisis clearly demonstrated the wisdom and foresight
of Murray in breaking loose from the Ballantyne and Constable connection, in spite of the promising
advantages which it had offered him.

Murray still went on with the Representative, though the result was increasing annoyance and
vexation. Mr. Milman wrote to him, "Do get a new editor for the lighter part of your paper,
and look well to the Quarterly." The advice was taken, and Dr. Maginn was brought over from
Paris to take charge of the lighter part of the paper at a salary of £700 a year, with a house.
The result was, that a number of clever jeux d'esprit were inserted by him, but these were
intermingled with some biting articles, which gave considerable offence.

At length the strain became more than he could bear, and he sought the first opportunity for
stopping the further publication of the paper. This occurred at the end of the general election,
and the Representative ceased to exist on July 29, 1826, after a career of only six months,
during which brief period it had involved Mr. Murray in a loss of not less than £26,000. [Footnote:
The Representative was afterwards incorporated with the New Times, another unfortunate paper.]

Mr. Murray bore his loss with much equanimity, and found it an inexpressible relief to be rid
of the Representative even at such a sacrifice. To Washington Irving he wrote:

John Murray to Mr. Irving.

"One cause of my not writing to you during one whole year was my 'entanglement,' as Lady G----
says, with a newspaper, which absorbed my money, and distracted and depressed my mind; but
I have cut the knot of evil, which I could not untie, and am now, by the blessing of God, again
returned to reason and the shop."

One of the unfortunate results of the initiation and publication of the Representative was
that it disturbed the friendship which had so long existed between Mr. Murray and Mr. Isaac
D'Israeli. The real cause of Benjamin's sudden dissociation from an enterprise of which in
its earlier stages he had been the moving spirit, can only be matter of conjecture. The only
mention of his name in the later correspondence regarding the newspaper occurs in the following
letter:

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

THURSDAY, February 14, 1826.

I think Mr. B. Disraeli ought to tell you what it is that he wishes to say to Mr. Croker on
a business of yours ere he asks of you a letter to the Secretary. If there really be something
worth saying, I certainly know nobody that would say it better, but I confess I think, all
things considered, you have no need of anybody to come between you and Mr. Croker. What can it be?

Yours,

J.G.L.

But after the Representative, had ceased to be published, the elder D'Israeli thought he had
a cause of quarrel with Mr. Murray, and proposed to publish a pamphlet on the subject. The
matter was brought under the notice of Mr. Sharon Turner, the historian and solicitor, and
the friend of both. Mr. Turner strongly advised Mr. Isaac D'Israeli to abstain from issuing
any such publication.

Mr. Sharon Turner to Mr. D'Israeli.

October 6, 1826.

"Fame is pleasant, if it arise from what will give credit or do good. But to make oneself notorious
only to be the football of all the dinner-tables, tea-tables, and gossiping visits of the country,
will be so great a weakness, that until I see you actually committing yourself to it, I shall
not believe that you, at an age like my own, can wilfully and deliberately do anything that
will bring the evil on you. Therefore I earnestly advise that whatever has passed be left as
it is.... If you give it any further publicity, you will, I think, cast a shade over a name
that at present stands quite fair before the public eye. And nothing can dim it to you that
will not injure all who belong to you. Therefore, as I have said to Murray, I say to you: Let
Oblivion absorb the whole question as soon as possible, and do not stir a step to rescue it
from her salutary power.... If I did not gee your words before me, I could not have supposed
that after your experience of these things and of the world, you could deliberately intend
to write--that is, to publish in print--anything on the differences between you, Murray, and
the Representative, and your son.... If you do, Murray will be driven to answer. To him the
worst that can befall will be the public smile that he could have embarked in a speculation
that has cost him many thousand pounds, and a criticism on what led to it.... The public know
it, and talk as they please about it, but in a short time will say no more upon it. It is now
dying away. Very few at present know that you were in any way concerned about it. To you, therefore,
all that results will be new matter for the public discussion and censure. And, after reading
Benjamin's agreement of the 3rd August, 1825, and your letters to Murray on him and the business,
of the 27th September, the 29th September, and the 9th October, my sincere opinion is that
you cannot, with a due regard to your own reputation, write or publish anything about it. I
send you hastily my immediate thoughts, that he whom I have always respected may not, by publishing
what will be immediately contradicted, diminish or destroy in others that respect which at
present he possesses, and which I hope he will continue to enjoy."

Mr. D'Israeli did not write his proposed pamphlet. What Mr. Murray thought of his intention
may be inferred from the following extract from his letter to Mr. Sharon Turner:

John Murray to Mr. Sharon Turner.

October 16, 1826.

"Mr. D'Israeli is totally wrong in supposing that my indignation against his son arises in
the smallest degree from the sum which I have lost by yielding to that son's unrelenting excitement
and importunity; this loss, whilst it was in weekly operation, may be supposed, and naturally
enough, to have been sufficiently painful, [Footnote: See note at the end of the chapter.]
but now that it has ceased, I solemnly declare that I neither care nor think about it, more
than one does of the long-suffered agonies of an aching tooth the day after we have summoned
resolution enough to have it extracted. On the contrary, I am disposed to consider this apparent
misfortune as one of that chastening class which, if suffered wisely, may be productive of
greater good, and I feel confidently that, as it has re-kindled my ancient ardour in business,
a very few months will enable me to replace this temporary loss, and make me infinitely the
gainer, if I profit by the prudential lesson which this whole affair is calculated to teach....
From me his son had received nothing but the most unbounded confidence and parental attachment;
my fault was in having loved, not wisely, but too well."

To conclude the story, as far as Mr. Disraeli was concerned, we may print here a letter written
some time later. Mr. Powles had availed himself of Disraeli's literary skill to recommend his
mining speculations to the public. In March 1825, Mr. Murray had published, on commission,
"American Mining Companies," and the same year "Present State of Mexico," and "Lawyers and
Legislators," all of them written by, or under the superintendence of, Mr. Disraeli. Mr. Powles,
however, again proved faithless, and although the money for the printing had been due for some
time, he paid nothing; and at length Mr. Disraeli addressed Mr. Murray in the following letter:

Mr. Benjamin Disraeli to John Murray.

6 BLOOMSBURY SQUARE, March 19, 1827.

SIR,

I beg to enclose you the sum of one hundred and fifty pounds, which I believe to be the amount
due to you for certain pamphlets published respecting the American Mining Companies, as stated
in accounts sent in some time since. I have never been able to obtain a settlement of these
accounts from the parties originally responsible, and it has hitherto been quite out of my
power to exempt myself from the liability, which, I have ever been conscious, on their incompetency,
resulted from the peculiar circumstances of the case to myself. In now enclosing you what I
consider to be the amount, I beg also to state that I have fixed upon it from memory, having
been unsuccessful in my endeavours to obtain even a return of the accounts from the original
parties, and being unwilling to trouble you again for a second set of accounts, which had been
so long and so improperly kept unsettled. In the event, therefore, of there being any mistake,
I will be obliged by your clerk instantly informing me of it, and it will be as instantly rectified;
and I will also thank you to enclose me a receipt, in order to substantiate my claims and enforce
my demands against the parties originally responsible. I have to express my sense of your courtesy
in this business, and

I am, sir, yours truly,

BENJAMIN DISRAELI.

Fortunately, the misunderstanding between the two old friends did not last long, for towards
the end of the year we find Mr. Isaac D'Israeli communicating with Mr. Murray respecting Wool's
"Life of Joseph Warton," and certain selected letters by Warton which he thought worthy of
republication; and with respect to his son, Mr. Benjamin Disraeli, although he published his
first work, "Vivian Grey," through Colburn, he returned to Albemarle Street a few years later,
and published his "Contarini Fleming" through Mr. Murray.

NOTE.--It appears from the correspondence that Mr. Murray had been led by the "unrelenting
excitement and importunity" of his young friend to make some joint speculation in South American
mines. The same financial crisis which prevented Mr. Powles from fulfilling his obligations
probably swept away all chance of profit from this investment. The financial loss involved
in the failure of the Representative was more serious, but Mr. Murray's resentment against
young Mr. Disraeli was not due to any such considerations. Justly or unjustly he felt bitterly
aggrieved at certain personalities which, he thought, were to be detected in "Vivian Grey."
Mr. Disraeli was also suspected of being concerned in an ephemeral publication called The Star
Chamber, to which he undoubtedly contributed certain articles, and in which paragraphs appeared
giving offence in Albemarle Street. The story of Vivian Grey (as it appeared in the first edition)
is transposed from the literary to the political key. It is undoubtedly autobiographical, but
the identification of Mr. Murray with the Marquis of Carabas must seem very far-fetched. It
is, at all times, difficult to say within what limits the novelist is entitled to resort to
portraiture in order to build up the fabric of his romance. Intention of offence was vehemently
denied by the D'Israeli family, which, as the correspondence shows, rushed with one accord
to the defence of the future Lord Beaconsfield. It was really a storm in a teacup, and but
for the future eminence of one of the friends concerned would call for no remark. Mr. Disraeli's
bitter disappointment at the failure of his great journalistic combination sharpened the keen
edge of his wit and perhaps magnified the irksomeness of the restraint which his older fellow-adventurer
tried to put on his "unrelenting excitement," and it is possible that his feelings found vent
in the novel which he then was composing. Comments were made, and drew from Scott the following
letter:

Sir Walter Scott to John Murray.

ABBOTSFORD, November 17, 1825.

My Dear Sir,

I was much surprised to-day to learn from Lockhart by letter that some scruples were in circulation
among some of the respectable among the supporters of the Quarterly Review concerning his capacity
to undertake that highly responsible task. I was obliged to search personally among my shelves, and a genuine
fissure suddenly unwrap to me the true nature of the damage I had sustained. That book, C., you should
not have taken away, for it is not mine; it is the property of a friend, who does not know its
value, nor indeed have i been very sedulous in explaining to the estimate of it; but was instead
contented in give a sort of corroboration to a hint that he let fall, as to its being suspected
to be not welcome, so that in all probability it would have descend to me as a deodand; not but i
am as strong it is ne'er'Jack as I am snug that element Bunyan wrote no "Pilgrim's Forwarding;"
but it was not for me to pronounce upon the credibility of testimony that had been disputed by learneder
clerks than i. so i quietly let it occupy the place it had usurped upon my shelves, and should
luther have thought of issuing no ejectment against it; for why should i be all certain as to
allow rites of hospitality to none but my own books, children,& c.?-- a species of egotism
i abhor from my heart. The; let'em so certain together, Hebrews and Proselytes of the gate; no selfish
partiality of mine shall make distinction between them; i charge an warehouse-area for my friends'commodities;
they are bigoted to come and stay as long as they wish, without paying opening. "no, it wasn't any body,
but it was a book that he called Luster's Tables." I have
no hesitation in saying that when he was paying his addresses in my family I fairly stated
to him that however I might be pleased with his general talents and accomplishments, with his
family, which is highly respectable, and his views in life, which I thought satisfactory, I
did decidedly object to the use he and others had made of their wit and satirical talent in
Blackwood's Magazine, which, though a work of considerable power, I thought too personal to
be in good taste or to be quite respectable. Mr. Lockhart then pledged his word to me that
he would withdraw from this species of warfare, and I have every reason to believe that he
has kept his word with me. In particular I know that he had not the least concern with the
Beacon newspaper, though strongly urged by his young friends at the Bar, and I also know that
while he has sometimes contributed an essay to Blackwood on general literature, or politics,
which can be referred to if necessary, he has no connection whatever with the satirical part
of the work or with its general management, nor was he at any time the Editor of the publication.

It seems extremely hard (though not perhaps to be wondered at) that the follies of three--or
four and twenty should be remembered against a man of thirty, who has abstained during the
interval from giving the least cause of offence. There are few men of any rank in letters who
have not at some time or other been guilty of some abuse of their satirical powers, and very
few who have not seen reason to wish that they had restrained their vein of pleasantry. Thinking
over Lockhart's offences with my own, and other men's whom either politics or literary controversy
has led into such effusions, I cannot help thinking that five years' proscription ought to
obtain a full immunity on their account. There were none of them which could be ascribed to
any worse motive than a wicked wit, and many of the individuals against whom they were directed
were worthy of more severe chastisement. The blame was in meddling with such men at all. Lockhart
is reckoned an excellent scholar, and Oxford has said so. He is born a gentleman, has always
kept the best society, and his personal character is without a shadow of blame. In the most
unfortunate affair of his life he did all that man could do, and the unhappy tragedy was the
result of the poor sufferer's after-thought to get out of a scrape. [Footnote: This refers,
without doubt, to the unfortunate death of John Scott, the editor of the London Magazine, in
a duel with Lockhart's friend Christie, the result of a quarrel in which Lockhart himself had
been concerned.] Of his general talents I will not presume to speak, but they are generally
allowed to be of the first order. This, however, I will say, that I have known the most able
men of my time, and I never met any one who had such ready command of his own mind, or possessed
in a greater degree the power of making his talents available upon the shortest notice, and
upon any subject. He is also remarkably docile and willing to receive advice or admonition
from the old and experienced. He is a fond husband and almost a doating father, seeks no amusement
out of his own family, and is not only addicted to no bad habits, but averse to spending time
in society or the dissipations connected with it. Speaking upon my honour as a gentleman and
my credit as a man of letters, I do not know a person so well qualified for the very difficult
and responsible task he has undertaken, and I think the distinct testimony of one who must
know the individual well ought to bear weight against all vague rumours, whether arising from
idle squibs he may have been guilty of when he came from College--and I know none of these
which indicate a bad heart in the jester--or, as is much more likely, from those which have
been rashly and falsely ascribed to him.

Had any shadow of this want of confidence been expressed in the beginning of the business I
for one would have advised Lockhart to have nothing to do with a concern for which his capacity
was called in question. But now what can be done? A liberal offer, handsomely made, has been
accepted with the same confidence with which it was offered. Lockhart has resigned his office
in Edinburgh, given up his business, taken a house in London, and has let, or is on the eve
of letting, his house here. The thing is so public, that about thirty of the most respectable
gentlemen in Edinburgh have proposed to me that a dinner should be given in his honour. The
ground is cut away behind him for a retreat, nor can such a thing be proposed as matters now stand.

Upon what grounds or by whom Lockhart was first recommended to you I have no right or wish
to inquire, having no access whatsoever to the negotiation, the result of which must be in
every wise painful enough to me. But as their advice must in addition to your own judgment
have had great weight with you, I conceive they will join with me in the expectation that the
other respectable friends of this important work will not form any decision to Lockhart's prejudice
till they shall see how the business is conducted. By a different conduct they may do harm
to the Editor, Publisher, and the work itself, as far as the withdrawing of their countenance
must necessarily be prejudicial to its currency. But if it shall prove that their suspicions
prove unfounded, I am sure it will give pain to them to have listened to them for a moment.

It has been my lot twice before now to stand forward to the best of my power as the assistant
of two individuals against whom a party run was made. The one case was that of Wilson, to whom
a thousand idle pranks were imputed of a character very different and far more eccentric than
anything that ever attached to Lockhart. We carried him through upon the fair principle that
in the case of good morals and perfect talents for a situation, where vice or crimes are not
alleged, the follies of youth should not obstruct the fair prospects of advanced manhood. God
help us all if some such modification of censure is not extended to us, since most men have
sown wild oats enough! Wilson was made a professor, as you know, has one of the fullest classes
in the University, lectures most eloquently, and is much beloved by his pupils. The other was
the case of John Williams, now Rector of our new Academy here, who was opposed most violently
upon what on examination proved to be exaggerated rumours of old Winchester stories. He got
the situation chiefly, I think, by my own standing firm and keeping others together. And the
gentlemen who opposed him most violently have repeatedly told me that I did the utmost service
to the Academy by bringing him in, for never was a man in such a situation so eminently qualified
for the task of education.

I only mention these things to show that it is not in my son-in-law's affairs alone that I
would endeavour to remove that sort of prejudice which envy and party zeal are always ready
to throw in the way of rising talent. Those who are interested in the matter may be well assured
that with whatever prejudice they may receive Lockhart at first, all who have candour enough
to wait till he can afford them the means of judging will be of opinion that they have got
a person possibly as well situated for the duties of such an office as any man that England
could afford them.

I would rather have written a letter of this kind concerning any other person than one connected
with myself, but it is every word true, were there neither son nor daughter in the case; but
as such I leave it at your discretion to show it, not generally, but to such friends and patrons
of the Review as in your opinion have a title to know the contents.

Believe me, dear Sir, Your most obedient Servant, WALTER SCOTT.

Mr. Lockhart himself addressed the two following letters to Mr. Murray:

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

Chiefswood, November 19, 1825.

My Dear Sir, I am deeply indebted to Disraeli for the trouble he has taken to come hither again
at a time when he has so many matters of real importance to attend to in London. The sort of
stuff that certain grave gentlemen have been mincing at, was of course thoroughly foreseen
by Sir W. Scott and by myself from the beginning of the business. Such prejudices I cannot
hope to overcome, except by doing well what has been entrusted to me, and after all I should
like to know what man could have been put at the head of the Quarterly Review at my time of
life without having the Doctors uttering doctorisms on the occasion. It was a habit she had: "chose"
came in at the review in her conversation-- the substitute for doing
any word like any language me might chance at the time to be missing.
French girls often do the in; from them she had caught the custom.

As for me, nobody has more sincere respect for them in their own different walks of excellence
than myself; and if there be one thing that I may promise for myself, it is, that age, experience,
and eminence, shall never find fair reason to accuse me of treating them with presumption.
I am much more afraid of falling into the opposite error. I have written at some length on
these matters to Mr. Croker, Mr. Ellis, and Mr. Rose--and to no one else; nor will I again
put pen to paper, unless someone, having a right to put a distinct question to me, does put it.

Mr. Lockhart to John Murray.

Sunday, CHIEFSWOOD, November 27, 1825.

My Dear Murray,

I have read the letter I received yesterday evening with the greatest interest, and closed
it with the sincerest pleasure. I think we now begin to understand each other, and if we do
that I am sure I have no sort of apprehension as to the result of the whole business. But in
writing one must come to the point, therefore I proceed at once to your topics in their order,
and rely on it I shall speak as openly on every one of them as I would to my brother.

