Their shoes are also made of reindeer skin.  They wear two pairs of thick woolen stockings.
When they put on the stockings, they wrap their feet in dry grass.  Then they put on their
shoes.  The grass helps to keep their feet warm.  They also wear two pairs of mittens at the
same time.  One pair is made of wool.  The other pair is made of reindeer skin.  Their hats
or caps are also made of reindeer skin. They are lined with eider down.  Perhaps you do not
know what eider down is.  It is the soft, fine feathers of a bird called the eider duck.  A
great many of these ducks are found in Lapland.  Their down is very soft and warm.

Sometimes the Lapps have to go long distances in the snow.  Then they put on skees.  If you
saw a pair of skees, you would think that a person could not walk with them.  They are flat
pieces of wood, four or five inches wide, and very long.  Some skees are six feet long.  Some
are ten or twelve feet long.  They are turned up a little in the front. In the middle of each
there is a hollow place.  The shoe is strapped to the foot there, as you see in the picture.
When the Lapps go on skees, they do not raise their feet from the ground.  They slide along,
one foot after the other.  They have a long pole, or staff, in their hands to beep themselves
from falling.  They can go very fast in this way. Sometimes they go ten or fifteen miles an hour.

In some parts of Lapland the people live in houses made of earth and stone.  Each house has
only one room.  The Lapps have no carpets.  They have no tables or chairs.  They cover their
floor with twigs of trees. They eat and sleep on skins spread on the twigs.  They burn wood
for fires.  The fire is made on the ground in the middle of the floor.  The smoke goes out
through a hole in the roof.

The Lapps do not all live in the same way.  Some of them are called mountain Lapps.  In summer
the mountain Lapps live in tents among the hills.  Their tents are made of reindeer skin. 
They have a great many reindeer.

The reindeer is very useful to the Lapps.  It gives them milk.  It draws their sleighs.  Its
flesh is good to eat.  They make clothes of its skin.  They make knives and spoons of its horns.

In summer the reindeer eat the soft shoots of shrubs and trees.  In winter they feed on moss
called lichen.  They get the lichen themselves.  They would not eat it if it were gathered
for them.  In winter they dig down through the snow with their feet to get at the lichen. 
They dig first with one fore foot and then with the other. The snow is often so deep that the
reindeer has to dig a hole so large that its body is almost hidden.

The reindeer are not put in stables.  They like to be out in the cold and snow.  They are able
to take care of themselves.

The Lapps eat a good deal of meat.  Their meat is the flesh of the reindeer.  They are very
fond of fat.  All people who live in very cold countries eat a great deal of fat.  It helps
to keep them warm.  The Lapps also have milk and cheese.  They eat rye bread and fish and berries.
They drink coffee.

In winter they have to melt snow in a pot over the fire to get water. The rivers and lakes
are all frozen.

The Lapps cook their food in a large pot over the fire.  They sit around the fire to eat. 
The father takes a piece of meat out of the pot.  Then he serves a piece to each.  The Lapps
use no forks.  They use their fingers instead.

In some places they have a funny way of storing their food.  They make a little log house on
the top of a post.  They have a ladder to go up to it.  In this little house they store cheese
and milk and other things.  Then wild animals cannot reach them.

