Next day, Crabshaw, being to all appearance perfectly recovered, our adventurer reckoned with
the apothecary, paid the landlord, and set out on his return for the London road, resolving
to lay aside his armour at some distance from the metropolis; for, ever since his interview
with Aurelia, his fondness for chivalry had been gradually abating.  As the torrent of his
despair had disordered the current of his sober reflection, so now, as that despair subsided,
his thoughts began to flow deliberately in their ancient channel.  All day long he regaled
his imagination with plans of connubial happiness, formed on the possession of the incomparable
Aurelia; determined to wait with patience, until the law should supersede the authority of
her guardian, rather than adopt any violent expedient which might hazard the interest of his
passion.

He had for some time travelled in the turnpike road, when his reverie was suddenly interrupted
by a confused noise; and when he lifted up his eyes he beheld at a little distance a rabble
of men and women, variously armed with flails, pitchforks, poles, and muskets, acting offensively
against a strange figure on horseback, who, with a kind of lance, laid about him with incredible
fury.  Our adventurer was not so totally abandoned by the spirit of chivalry, to see without
emotion a single knight in danger of being overpowered by such a multitude of adversaries.
Without staying to put on his helmet, he ordered Crabshaw to follow him in the charge against
those plebeians.  Then couching his lance, and giving Bronzomarte the spur, he began his career
with such impetuosity as overturned all that happened to be in his way; and intimidated the
rabble to such a degree, that they retired before him like a flock of sheep, the greater part
of them believing he was the devil in propria persona.  He came in the very nick of time to
save the life of the other errant, against whom three loaded muskets were actually levelled,
at the very instant that our adventurer began his charge.  The unknown knight was so sensible
of the seasonable interposition, that, riding up to our hero, "Brother," said he, "this is
the second time you have holp me off, when I was bump ashore.--Bess Mizzen, I must say, is
no more than a leaky bum-boat, in comparison of the glorious galley you want to man.  I desire
that henceforth we may cruise in the same latitudes, brother; and I'll be d--ned if I don't
stand by you as long as I have a stick standing, or can carry a rag of canvas."

By this address our knight recognised the novice Captain Crowe, who had found means to accommodate
himself with a very strange suit of armour. By way of helmet, he wore one of the caps used
by the light horse, with straps buckled under his chin, and contrived in such a manner as to
conceal his whole visage, except the eyes.  Instead of cuirass, mail, greaves, and other pieces
of complete armour, he was cased in a postillion's leathern jerkin, covered with thin plates
of tinned iron. His buckler was a potlid, his lance a hop-pole shod with iron, and a basket-hilt
broadsword, like that of Hudibras, depended by a broad buff belt, that girded his middle. 
His feet were defended by jack-boots, and his hands by the gloves of a trooper.  Sir Launcelot
would not lose time in examining particulars, as he perceived some mischief had been done,
and that the enemy had rallied at a distance; he therefore commanded Crowe to follow him, and
rode off with great expedition; but he did not perceive his squire was taken prisoner; nor
did the captain recollect that his nephew, Tom Clarke, had been disabled and secured in the
beginning of the fray.  The truth is, the poor captain had been so belaboured about the pate,
that it was a wonder he remembered his own name.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN

CONTAINING ADVENTURES OF CHIVALRY EQUALLY NEW AND SURPRISING.

The knight Sir Launcelot, and the novice Crowe, retreated with equal order and expedition to
the distance of half a league from the field of battle, where the former, halting, proposed
to make a lodgment in a very decent house of entertainment, distinguished by the sign of St.
George of Cappadocia encountering the dragon, an achievement in which temporal and spiritual
chivalry were happily reconciled.  Two such figures alighting at the inn gate did not pass
through the yard unnoticed and unadmired by the guests and attendants, some of whom fairly
took to their heels, on the supposition that these outlandish creatures were the avant-couriers
or heralds of a French invasion.  The fears and doubts, however, of those who ventured to stay
were soon dispelled, when our hero accosted them in the English tongue, and with the most courteous
demeanour desired to be shown into an apartment.

Had Captain Crowe been spokesman, perhaps their suspicions would not have so quickly subsided,
for he was, in reality, a very extraordinary novice, not only in chivalry, but also in his
external appearance, and particularly in those dialects of the English language which are used
by the terrestrial animals of this kingdom.  He desired the ostler to take his horse in tow,
and bring him to his moorings in a safe riding.  He ordered the waiter, who showed them into
a parlour, to bear a hand, ship his oars, mind his helm, and bring alongside a short allowance
of brandy or grog, that he might cant a slug into his bread-room, for there was such a heaving
and pitching, that he believed he should shift his ballast.  The fellow understood no part
of this address but the word brandy, at mention of which he disappeared.  Then Crowe, throwing
himself into an elbow chair, "Stop my hawse-holes," cried he, "I can't think what's the matter,
brother; but, egad, my head sings and simmers like a pot of chowder.  My eyesight yaws to and
again, d'ye see; then there's such a walloping and whushing in my hold--smite me--Lord have
mercy upon us.  Here, you swab, ne'er mind the glass, hand me the noggin."

The latter part of this address was directed to the waiter, who had returned with a quartern
of brandy, which Crowe, snatching eagerly, started into his bread-room at one cant.  Indeed,
there was no time to be lost, inasmuch as he seemed to be on the verge of fainting away when
he swallowed this cordial, by which he was instantaneously revived.

He then desired the servant to unbuckle the straps of his helmet, but this was a task which
the drawer could not perform, even though assisted with the good offices of Sir Launcelot,
for the head and jaws were so much swelled with the discipline they had undergone, that the
straps and buckles lay buried, as it were, in pits formed by the tumefaction of the adjacent parts.

Fortunately for the novice, a neighbouring surgeon passed by the door on horseback, a circumstance
which the waiter, who saw him from the window, no sooner disclosed, than the knight had recourse
to his assistance. This practitioner having viewed the whole figure, and more particularly
the head of Crowe, in silent wonder, proceeded to feel his pulse, and then declared, that as
the inflammation was very great, and going on with violence to its acme, it would be necessary
to begin with copious phlebotomy, and then to empty the intestinal canal.  So saying, he began
to strip the arm of the captain, who perceiving his aim, "Avast, brother," cried he, "you go
the wrong way to work; you may as well rummage the afterhold when the damage is in the forecastle;
I shall right again when my jaws are unhooped."

