      He wa'n't one of the regular sort
          What you'd meet thar any day,
      But as near as the camp could figure it out,
          In a show down he'd likely stay.
      A shambling, awkward figure,
          Rawboned, tall and slim,
      And his schaps and togs in general
          Jist looked like they'd fell on him.

      I wuz somewhat of a tenderfoot then,
          Hadn't jist got the lay of the land;
      Thar wuz a good many things in them thar parts
          As I couldn't quite understand.
      But I took a likin' to Yosemite Jim,
          Wuz with him on my very first trick;
      And from that time on I stuck to him
          Like a kitten to a good warm brick.

      Our headquarters then wuz the valley camp,
          It wuz down by the redwood way,
       With Chaparel across the spur,
          'Bout fifty miles away.
      Wall, what I'm goin' to tell you, pard,
          Happened thar whar the trail runs into the sky;
      And if it hadn't a-bin fer Yosemite Jim,
          Wall, I'd be countin' my chips on high.

      The galoot that wuz punchin' the broncos fer me
          Wuz a greaser from down Monterey;
      And Jim used to say, "Keep your eye on him, pard,
          I don't think he's cum fer to stay;
      His eyes are too shifty and yeller,
          And his face is sullen and hard;
      And 'taint that so much as a feelin' I have;
          Anyhow, keep your eye on him, pard."

      One day when the mercury wuz way out of sight,
          And the frost it wuz on every nail,
      With jist the mail sack and specie box,
          The greaser and I hit the trail.
      We picked two passengers up at Big Pine,
          And while the broncos were changed that day
      I noticed them havin' a sneakin' chat
          With the greaser from down Monterey.

      Did you ever hear tell of the Great White Death,
          That creeps down the mountain side,
      Leavin' behind it a ghastly track
          Whar those who have met it died?
      Wall, pard, as true as I'm a-livin',
          No man wants to see it twice;
      White and grim as a funeral shroud,
          A mass of mist and ice.

      Wall, we hadn't got far from the Big Pine relay
          When my hair it commenced to rise,
      For I saw across by the Lone Bear spur
          A cloud of most monstrous size.
      And the greaser acted sort of peculiar,
          And the broncos commenced to neigh;
      Wall, some thoughts went through my mind jist then
          I won't forgit till my dyin' day.

      In less time than it takes to tell it,
          We were into the Great White Death,
      With its millions of frozen snowflakes
          A-takin' away our breath.
      And jist then somethin' happened, pard,
          The greaser from down Monterey
      Tried to sneak off with the specie box,
          Along with the passengers from Big Pine relay.

      All at once a figure on hossback
          Cum a-whoopin' it down the trail,
      And bullets from out of a Winchester
          Commenced to fly like hail.
      The greaser and them two passengers
          Cashed in their chips to him,
      Fer the feller what wuz doin' the shootin'
          Wuz my friend, Yosemite Jim.

      Wall, we planted them thar together,
          When the cloud had passed away;
      And all they've got fer a tombstone
          Is the mountains, dull and gray.
      So, pard, let's take one together,
          And I'll drink a toast to him,
      Fer though he wuz rough and ready,
          He'd a heart, YOSEMITE JIM.

The Great White Death, so named by the Indians, occurs in the higher altitudes of the Rocky
and Sierra Nevada Mountains. It is almost indescribable. It might properly be termed a frozen
fog. It has the effect of bringing on acute congestion of the lungs, from which few rarely
recover. Viewed at a distance it is a magnificent sight, each and every particle of the frozen
moisture being a miniature prism, which reflects the sun's rays in a manner once seen never
to be forgotten.--By CAL. STEWART, formerly Overland Messenger for the Wells-Fargo Express Company.

Uncle Josh Weathersby's Trip to Boston

FER a long time I had my mind made up to go down to Boston, so a short time ago, as I had all
my crops and produce mostly sold, I alowed it would be a good time to go down thar, and I sed
to mother, "I'll start early in the mornin' and take a load of produce with me, and that will
sort of pay expenses of the trip."

Wall, I got into Boston next mornin' bright and early, 'bout time they had their breakfast,
and I looked 'round fer a spell; then finally I picked out a right likely lookin' store, and
jist conclooded I'd sell my load of produce thar. Wall, I went in and I met a feller 'nd I
sed, "Good mornin', be you the storekeeper?" And he sed, "No, sir, I'm only one of the clerks."
So I sed, "Wall, be the storekeeper to hum?" And he sed, "Yes, sir, would you like to see him?"
And I told him as how I would, and he turned 'round and commenced to hollerin' "FRONT," and
a boy cum up what had more brass buttins on him than a whole regiment of soljers. I thought
that wuz a durned funny name fer a boy--front--and that clerk feller he wuz about the most
importent thing I'd seen in Boston so far, less maybe it wuz the Bunker Hill monument that
I druv past cummin' to town. He had on a biled collar that sort of put me in mind of the whitewashed
fence 'round the fair grounds down hum. I'll bet if he'd ever sneeze it would cut his ears off.

Wall, anyhow, he sed to that front boy, "Show the gentleman to the proprietor's offis." Wall,
I went along with that boy, and presently we cum to a place in one corner of that store; it
wuz made out of iron and had bars in front of the winders, and looked like the county jale.
The front boy p'inted to a man and sed, "Go in," and I sed, "I gessed I wouldn't go in thar,
cos I hadn't done anything to be locked up fer." And that front boy commenced to laffin' tho'
durned if I could see what he wuz a-laffin' about, and the storekeeper he opened the door and
cum out, and he sed, "Good mornin', what can I do fer you?" I sed, "Be you the storekeeper?"
and he sed he wuz. So I sed, "Do you want to buy any pertaters?" And he sed, "No, sir, we don't
buy pertaters here; this a dry goods store." So I sed, "Wall, don't want any cabbage, do ye?"
And he sed, "No, sir, this is a dry goods store." So I sed, "Wall, now, I want to know; do
you need any onions?" And by chowder, he got madder 'n a wet hen. He sed, "Now look a-heer,
I want you to understand onct fer all, this is a dry goods store, and we don't buy anything
but dry goods and don't sell anything but dry goods; do you understand me now? DRY GOODS."
And I sed, "Yes, gess I understand you; you don't need to git so tarnaly riled about the matter;
neer as I can figure it out you jist buy dry goods and sell 'em." And he sed, "Yes, sir, only
dry goods." So I sed, "Do you want to buy some mighty good dried apples?"

Wall, that front boy got to laffin, and a lot of wimmin clerks giggled right out, and the storekeeper
he commenced a-laffin', too, and fer about a minnit I thought they'd all went crazy to onct.
Wall, he told a feller to show me whar I could sell my produce, and I disposed of it at a good
bargain.

I like them Boston folks, they try to make you feel to hum, and enjoy yourself and be soshable,
and I wuz chuck full of soshability, too; I wuz goin' up one street and down t'other, jist
a-gettin' soshability at ten cents a soshable.

