The emigrants from every State in the Union, under the power claimed by the slavery propagandists,
would have a right to take with them all the constitutions and all the laws of all the States.
The confusion which would follow would be worse than at the Tower of Babel. If a citizen of
any slave State leaves it, and goes into a free State or Territory to reside, he takes with
him none of the rights or powers with which his State clothed him while he remained therein.
He can take with him such articles as, by the universal consent of mankind, are considered
property, and exercise ownership over them. When at home, I am a legal voter; I can vote for
any State or county officer, or President of the United States. But if I cross the river, a
distance of eighty rods, or go out of my election district, or in any other direction, I have
no such privilege. The right of suffrage, which is the highest right that ever can be exercised
by a citizen, is controlled by the laws and Constitution of each particular State. In the State
of Ohio, a man need not be a property holder to entitle him to the right of suffrage; if he
remove into a State where he must have a property qualification before he can vote, are the
rights of the State he left violated? I presume no one will contend that they are. A man may
have some power in the State of Virginia, given by its Legislature--the right to issue paper
money, for instance; but if he remove to Ohio, he has not this right. No man would pretend
to claim that any of the rights of Virginia are infringed.

Yet the man who would make this claim, would be just as reasonable as he who should claim that
the rights of Virginia are invaded because her slaveholders are not permitted to take slaves
into Kansas or Nebraska.

I understand those Southern men, who talk so much about Southern rights, claim not only the
right to take slaves into the Territories, but they claim the right to take slave laws and
the habits and customs which are practiced in the slave States. They claim to take laws by
which four million negroes are reduced to the condition of brutes. Six million white men, women,
and children, who have to obtain their living by labor, are condemned to perpetual degradation
and ignorance, by which three hundred and fifty thousand slaveholders can govern and control
the destinies of the millions of people in the slave States; and not only of those people,
but of this great country of ours. They not only claim the right to take their negroes into
the Territories, but they claim to take laws there that will deny to every man the freedom
of speech and the liberty of the press. They claim the right to seal every man's lips, and
stop every man's mouth, on questions of great national interest. They claim to take with them
the right to condemn as a felon the man who may utter and maintain the Declaration of Independence,
or the opinions of the conscript fathers of the Republic. They claim to take with them the
right to condemn as a felon the man who dares proclaim the precepts of our holy religion. They
claim to take with them the right to strip naked and cut into gashes the back of the man who
utters opinions that do not exactly "square and corner" with the interests of the aristocratic
slaveholders.

A negro population is one by no means desirable, but a free white man could live where there
are negroes, and maintain his freedom; but no white non-slaveholder can live where slave laws,
customs, and habits, pertain, and retain the rights that belong to free men in free States.

A man may live in the swamps of the torrid zone, and escape the crocodiles, alligators, and
other slimy and creeping things, but he cannot escape the miasma and poison of the atmosphere.

If the slaveholder is permitted to go into the Territories, and take his slave laws, habits,
and customs, the people of the free States are to a great extent excluded therefrom, and deprived
of all rights therein.

But slaveholders say they will go; they will take their slaves, and their slave code; they
will establish there such a despotism as reigns in some of the slave States; they will poison
the air that surrounds the fertile plains of the West, until freedom shall sicken and die;
and we are constantly told, that if we do not yield to their unreasonable demands, this Union
shall be dissolved.

But these threats do not move or alarm me, and for the best of all possible reasons; I do not
believe that the gentlemen who make these threats intend to leave their places on this floor--nor,
if they should, would the country suffer any loss. The section they represent would still remain
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, and our glorious flag would still wave
over its fertile plains and lofty mountains, its woody dells and shelving rocks, its gurgling
fountains and rippling rills. Good, loyal, and patriotic men would come here to fill the vacant
places, ready and able to discharge their duty to the country, and to the whole country.

Notwithstanding these threats of disunion from the Democratic party, we hear much holy horror
expressed in regard to a sectional party, and much laudation of a national, conservative party.
The nationality of the Democratic party consists in devoting all the energies and power of
the Federal Government to advancing the interests, aims, and ends, of about one hundred thousand
men. Its conservatism consists in its avowed determination to dissolve the Union, should a
majority of our people, in the exercise of their legal and constitutional rights, elect a President
not acceptable to that party.

There are, I presume, not more than one hundred thousand men in this country who feel any desire
to extend the boundaries of slavery, or who would, had they the power, add one other slave
State to the Union. Yet the whole power of this Government is devoted to that one object; its
entire strength concentrated in one spasmodic effort to extend slavery. The agricultural, the
manufacturing, the great commercial interests of this country, are entirely ignored, neglected,
and forgotten, that the interests of one hundred thousand slaveholders may be advanced. The
great pursuits by which twenty-five million people live, are not considered worthy the attention
of this Democratic party; while one hundred thousand aristocrats require its entire services.
Yet this is the great national party! While so determined upon rule is it, that if a majority
of the people should decide against it, and discharge its members from places of trust and
honor, they threaten to destroy this Government. Such is the conservative party commended to
our most favorable consideration.

The slavery party is constantly complaining that the free States enact personal-liberty laws,
and that they do not fulfil their constitutional obligations. Whatever acts may be passed by
our Legislatures, so that they do not interfere with the Constitution of the United States,
you have no right to complain. But if you think that Constitution violated, you have your remedy.
Send your attorneys into the free States; commence your suits in the Federal courts, and try
the validity of our statutes. We pledge ourselves that your agents shall be kindly treated,
and shall have a fair hearing. We will not follow your example; we will not pass laws in plain
and palpable violation of your rights, and in palpable violation of the Constitution, and then
drive out, by threats or violence, any man who may come into the State to test the validity
of such enactments.

Before you complain of us, go home and seize and hang the pirates who are hovering around your
shores, engaged in the slave trade. You may say a jury will not convict them. Why not? Because
the community sustains them in their unholy traffic and in their violation of the laws. But
if you really desired to punish those men, you could easily devise the ways and means--a whipping
on the bare back with a raw-hide, a coat of tar and feathers, or some other corrective that
you are in the habit of using. I would not advise these punishments; in a free State they would
not be practicable; but in States where such things are in constant use, it is rather surprising
that some person has not thought of thus applying them. Men who commit acts declared by the
whole civilized world to be piracy, you permit to escape, while you say you will hang the man
who circulates Helper's book. Before you complain of the free States, arrest and punish the
scoundrels who so cruelly treated the Irishman at Columbia, South Carolina, for no offence
but saying that slavery was detrimental to free labor.

Take from place and power the men whose hands and faces are reeking and smoking with the blood
of our people in Kansas, and put them to death. Punish the thousands of others who have committed
acts of violence against free-State men, and are yet unwhipped of justice. These things you
must do, before you complain of us. I take no pleasure in these criminations and recriminations.
I know that all the States are a part of my country; but when I hear of the wrongs and outrages
perpetrated on men merely because they will not subscribe to the doctrines you hold, and hear
you complain of us for not doing our duty as citizens, I will let you know that you, too, "are
made of penetrable stuff." I have

    "Learned to deride your fierce decree,
    And break you on the wheel you meant for me."

I do not mean to interfere with any man's legal or constitutional rights. The people of the
slave States have the right to continue slavery there if they desire so to do. I have no right
to interfere with it. But I intend to maintain my own rights.

To draw an impassable line around slavery, and confine it within its present limits; an absolute
abolition of the African slave trade; the Territories to be kept free for homes for free men--these
measures I regard as absolutely essential to the perpetuation of this Government, and to the
highest development of the Anglo-Saxon race. I have endeavored to show what slavery is, what
it has done, and what it intends to do. I have also endeavored to show what are the aims and
objects of the Republican party; and if they cannot be tolerated--if such principles cannot
be sustained by the people of any section of this country--it is the misfortune of that people.
They are the principles that ought to be sustained by all people that are fitted for civil
liberty; they are the principles on which this Government was founded; they were baptized in
the best blood of this nation; they were cherished by the greatest names that adorn the brightest
pages of the history of our country during its patriotic and virtuous and heroic age. They
were emblazoned on every banner that waved over our army in every battle-field of the Revolution;
during the storm and darkness, they were the bright "signet on the bosom of the cloud," the
rainbow of promise and of hope.

 Published by the Republican Congressional Committee.
             Price 50 cents per hundred. Significant amendments to the original
    text have been listed below:

      p. 2, 'Newbern' amended to New Bern;
            '... meeting in New Bern, North Carolina ...'

      p. 6, 'Scot' amended to Scott;
            '... in the Dred Scott case ...'