The next two days took us through Chagamoyo to Kiratosi, by the aid of the compass; for the
route Kamrasi's men took differed from the one which Budja knew, and he declared the Wanyoro
were leading us into a trap, and would not be convinced we were going on all right till I pulled
out the compass and confirmed the Wanyoro. We were anything but welcomed at Kiratosi, the people
asking by what bad luck we had come there to eat up their crops; but in a little while they
flocked to our doors and admired our traps, remarking that they believed each iron box contained
a couple of white dwarfs, which we carry on our shoulders, sitting straddle-legs, back to back,
and they fly off to eat people whenever they get the order. One of these visitors happened
to be the sister of one of my men, named Baruti, who no sooner recognised her brother, than,
without saying a word, she clasped her head with her hands, and ran off, crying, to tell her
husband what she had seen. A spy of Kamrasi dropped the report that the Wanguana were returning
from Mtesa's, and hurried on to tell the king.

31st.--Some Waganda hurrying in, confirmed the report of last night, and said the Wanguana,
footsore, had been left at the Uganda frontier, expecting us to return, as Mtesa, at the same
time that he approved highly of my having sent men back to inform him of Kamrasi's conduct,
begged we would instantly return, even if found within one march of Kamrasi's, for he had much
of importance to tell his friend Bana. The message continued to this effect: I need be under
no apprehensions about the road to the coast, for he would give me as many men as I liked;
and, fearing I might be short of powder, he had sent some with the Wanguana. Both Wanguana
were by the king given women for their services, and an old tin cartridge-box represented Mtesa's
card, it being an article of European manufacture, which, if found in the possession of any
Mganda, would be certain death to him. Finally, all the houses and plantains where my men were
wounded had been confiscated.

When this message was fully delivered, Budja said we must return without a day's delay. I,
on the contrary, called up Kidgwiga. I did not like my men having been kept prisoners in Uganda,
and pronounced in public that I would not return. It would be an insult to Kamrasi my doing
so, for I was now in his "house" at his own invitation. I wished Bombay would go with him (Kidgwiga)
at once to his king, to say I had hoped, when I sent Budja with Mabruki, in the first instance,
conveying a friendly present from Mtesa, which was done at my instigation, and I found Kamrasi
acknowledged it by a return-present, that there would be no more fighting between them. I said
I had left England to visit these countries for the purpose of opening up a trade, and I had
no orders to fight my way except with the force of friendship. That Rumanika had accepted my
views Kamrasi must be fully aware by Baraka's having visited him; and that Mtesa did the same
must also be evident, else he would never have ordered his men to accompany me to Gani; and
I now fondly trusted that these Waganda would be allowed to go with me, when, by the influence
of trade, all animosity would cease, and friendly relations be restored between the two countries.

This speech was hardly pronounced when Kajunju, a fine athletic man, dropped suddenly in, nodded
a friendly recognition to Budja, and wished to know what the Waganda meant by taking us back,
for the king had heard of their intention last night; and when told by Budja his story, and
by Kidgwiga mine, he vanished like a shadow. Budja, now turning to me, said, "If you won't
go back, I shall; for the orders of Mtesa must always be obeyed, else lives will be lost; and
I shall tell him that you, since leaving his country, and getting your road, have quite forgotten
him." "If you give such a message as that," I said, "you will tell a falsehood. Mtesa has no
right to order me out of another man's house, to be an enemy with one whose friendship I desire.
I am not only in honour bound to speak with Kamrasi, but I am also bound to carry out the orders
of my country just as much as you are yours; moreover, I have invited Petherick to come to
Kamrasi's by a letter from Karague, and it would be ill-becoming in me to desert him in the
hands of an enemy, as he would then certainly find Kamrasi to be if I went back now." Budja
then tried the coaxing dodge, saying, "There is much reason in your words, but I am sorry you
do not listen to the king, for he loves you as a brother. Did you not go about like two brothers--walking,
talking, shooting, and even eating together? It was the remark of all the Waganda, and the
king will be so vexed when he finds you have thrown him over. I did not tell you before, but
the king says, 'How can I answer Rumanika if Kamrasi injures Bana? Had I known Kamrasi was
such a savage, I would not have let Bana go there; and I should now have sent a forge to take
him away, only that some accident might arise from it by Kamrasi's taking fright; the road
even to Gani shall be got by force if necessary.'" Then, finding me still persistent, Budja
turned again and threatened us with the king's power, saying, "If you choose to disobey, we
will see whether you ever get the road to Gani or not; for Kamrasi is at war on all sides with
his brothers, and Mtesa will ally himself with them at any moment that he wishes, and where
will you be then?"

Saying this, Budja walked off, muttering that our being here would much embarrass Mtesa's actions;
whilst my Wanguana, who had been attentively listening, like timid hares, made up their minds
to leave me, and tried, through Bombay, to obtain a final interview with me, saying they knew
Mtesa's power, and disobedience to him would only end in taking away all chance of escape.
In reply, I said I would not listen to them, as I had seen enough of them to know it was no
use speaking to a pack of unreasonable cowards, having tried it so often before; but I sent
a message requesting them, if they did desert me at last, to leave my guns; and, further, added
an intimation that, as soon as they reached the coast, they would be put into prison for three
years. The scoundrels insolently said "tuende setu" (let's be off), rushed to the Waganda drums,
and beat the march.

1st.--Early in the morning, as Budja drummed the home march, I called him up, gave him a glass
rain-gauge as a letter for Mtesa, and instructed him to say I would send a man to Mtesa as
soon as I had seen Kamrasi about opening the road; that I trusted he would take all the guns
from the deserters and keep them for me, but the men themselves I wished transported to an
island on the N'yanza, for I could never allow such scoundrels again to enter my camp. It was
the effect of desertions like these that prevented any white men visiting these countries.
This said, the Waganda all left us, taking with them twenty-eight Wanguana, armed with twenty-two
carbines. Amongst them was the wretched governess, Manamaka, who had always thought me a wonderful
magician, because I possessed, in her belief, an extraordinary power in inclining all the black
kings' hearts to me, and induced them to give the roads no one before of my colour had ever
attempted to use.

With a following reduced to twenty men, armed with fourteen carbines, I now wished to start
for Kamrasi's, but had not even sufficient force to lift the loads. A little while elapsed,
and a party of fifty Wanyoro rushed wildly into camp, with their spears uplifted, and looked
for the Waganda, but found them gone. The athletic Kajunju, it transpired, had returned to
Kamrasi's, told him our story, and received orders to snatch us away from the Waganda by force,
for the great Mkamma, or king, was most anxious to see his white visitors; such men had never
entered Unyoro before, and neither his father nor his father's fathers had ever been treated
with such a visitation; therefore he had sent on these fifty men to fall by surprise on the
Waganda, and secure us. But again, in a little while, about 10 a.m., Kajunju, in the same wild
manner, at the head of 150 warriors, with the soldier's badge--a piece of mbugu or plantain-leaf
tied round their heads, and a leather sheath on their spear-heads, tufted with cow's-tail--rushed
in exultingly, having found, to their delight, that there was no one left to fight with, and
that they had gained an easy victory. They were certainly a wild set of ragamuffins--as different
as possible from the smart, well-dressed, quick-of-speech Waganda as could be, and anything
but prepossessing to our eyes. However, they had done their work, and I offered them a cow,
wishing to have it shot before them; but the chief men, probably wishing the whole animal to
themselves, took it alive, saying the men were all the king's servants, and therefore could
not touch a morsel.

Kamrasi expected us to advance next day, when some men would go on ahead to announce our arrival,
and bring a letter which was brought with beads by Gani before Baraka's arrival here. It was
shown to Baraka in the hope that we would come by the Karague route, but not to Mabruki, because
he came from Uganda. Kidgwiga informed us that Kamrasi never retaliated on Mtesa when he lifted
Unyoro cows, though the Waganda keep their cattle on the border--which simply meant that he
had not the power of doing so. The twenty remaining Wanguana, conversing over the sudden scheme
of the deserters, proposed, on one side, sending for them, as, had they seen the Wanyoro arrive,
they would have changed their minds; but the other side said, "What! those brutes who said
we should all die here if we stayed, and yet dared not face the danger with us, should we now
give them a helping hand? Never! We told them we would share our fate with Bana, and share
it we will, for God rules everything: every man must die when his time comes."

We marched for the first time without music, as the drum is never allowed to be beaten in Unyoro
except when the necessities of war demand it, or for a dance. Wanyamuezi and Wanyoro, in addition
to our own twenty men, carried the luggage, though no one carried more than the smallest article
he could find. It was a pattern Unyoro march, of only two hours' duration. On arrival at the
end we heard that elephants had been seen close by. The animals appeared to be all females,
much smaller than the Indian breed; yet though ten were fired at, none were killed, and only
one made an attempt to charge. I was with the little twin Manua at the time, when, stealing
along under cover of the high grass, I got close to the batch and fired at the larges, which
sent her round roaring. My scent then striking across them, they pulled up short, lifted their
heads high, and looked down sideways on us. This was a bad job. I could not get a proper front
shot at the boss of any of them, and if I had waited an instant we should both have been picked
up or trodden to death; so I let fly at their temples, and instead of killing, sent the whole
of them rushing away at a much faster pace than they came. After this I gave up, because I
never could separate the ones I had wounded from the rest, and thought it cruel to go on damaging
more. Thinking over it afterwards, I came to the conclusion I ought to have put in more powder;
for I had, owing to their inferior size to the Indian ones, rather despised them, and fired
at them with the same charge and in the same manner as I always did at rhinoceros. Though puzzled
at the strange sound of the rifle, the elephants seldom ran far, packed in herd, and began
to graze again. Frij, who was always ready at spinning a yarn, told us with much gravity that
two of my men, Uledi and Wadi Hamadi, deserters, were possessed of devils (Phepo) at Zanzibar.
Uledi, not wishing to be plagued by his Satanic majesty's angels on the march, sacrificed a
cow and fed the poor, according to the great Phepo's orders, and had been exempted from it;
but Wadi Hamadi, who preferred taking his chance, had been visited several times: once at Usui,
when he was told the journey would be prosperous, only the devil wanted one man's life, and
one man would fall sick; which proved true, for Hassani was murdered, and Grant fell sick in
Karague. The second time Wadi Hamadi saw the devil in Karague, and was told one man's life
would be required in Uganda, and such also was the case by Kari's murder; and a third time,
in Unyoro, he was possessed, when it was said that the journey would be prosperous but protracted.

3d.--Though we stormed every day at being so shamefully neglected and kept in the jungles,
we could not get on, nor find out the truth of our position. I asked if Kamrasi was afraid
of us, and looking into his magic horn; and was answered, "No; he is very anxious to see you,
or he would not have sent six of his highest officers to look after you, and prevent the unruly
peasantry from molesting you." "Then by whose orders are we kept here?" "By Kamrasi's." "Why
does Kamrasi keep us here?" "He thinks you are not so near, and men have gone to tell him."
"How did we come here from the last ground?" "By Kamrasi's orders; for nothing can be done
excepting by his orders." "Then he must know we are here?" "He may not have seen the men we
sent to him; for unless he shows in public no one can see him." The whole affair gave us such
an opinion of Kamrasi as induced us to think it would have served him right had we joined Mtesa
and given him a thrashing. This, I said, was put in our power by an alliance with his refractory
brothers; but Kidgwiga only laughed and said, "Nonsense! Kamrasi is the chief of all the countries
round here--Usoga, Kidi, Chopi, Gani, Ulega, everywhere; he has only to hold up his hand and
thousands would come to his assistance." Kwibeya, the officer of the place, presented us with
five fowls on the part of the king, and some baskets of potatoes.

4th.--We halted again, it was said, in order that Kwibeya might give us all the king had desired
him to present. I sent Bombay off with a message to Kamrasi explaining everything, and begging
for an early interview, as I had much of importance to communicate, and wished, of all things,
to see the letter he had from Gani, as it must have come from our dear friends at home. Seven
goats, flour, and plantains, were now brought to us; and as Kidgwiga begged for the flour without
success, he flew into a fit of high indignation because these things were given and received
without his having first been consulted. He was the big man and appointed go-between, and no
one could dispute it. This was rather startling news to us, for Vittagura said he was commander-in-chief;
Kajunju thought himself biggest, so did Kwibeya, and even Dr K'yengo's men justified Budja's
speech.

5th and 6th.--Still another halt, with all sorts of excuses. Frij, it appeared, dreamt last
night that the king of Uganda came to fight us for not complying with his orders, and that
all my men ran away except Uledi and himself. This, according to the interpretation of the
coast, would turn out the reverse, otherwise his head must be wrong, and, according to local
science, should be set right again by actual cautery of the temples; and as Grant dreamt a
letter came from Gani which I opened and ran away with, he thought it would turn out no letter
at all, and therefore Kamrasi had been humbugging us. We heard that Bombay had shot a cow before
Kamrasi and would not be allowed to return until he had eaten it.

At last we made a move, but only of two hours' duration, through the usual forest, in which
elephants walked about as if it were their park. We hoped at starting to reach the palace,
but found we must stop here until the king should send for us. We were informed that doubtless
he was looking into his Uganga, or magic horn, to discover what he had to expect from us; and
he seemed as yet to have found no ground for being afraid of us. Moreover, it is his custom
to keep visitors waiting on him in this way, for is he not the king of kings, the king of Kittara,
which includes all the countries surrounding Unyoro?

Chapter XVII. Unyoro

Invitation to the Palace at last--Journey to it--Bombay's Visit to King Kamrasi--Our Reputation
as Cannibals--Reception at Court--Acting the Physician again--Royal Mendicancy.

We halted again, but in the evening one of Dr K'yengo's men came to invite us to the palace.
He explained that Kamrasi was in a great rage because we only received seven goats instead
of thirty, the number he had ordered Kwibeya to give us, besides pombe and plantains without
limitation. I complained that Bombay had been shown more respect than myself, obtaining an
immediate admittance to the king's presence. To this he gave two ready answers--that every
distinction shown my subordinate was a distinction to myself, and that we must not expect court
etiquette from savages.

9th.--We set off for the palace. This last march differed but little from the others. Putting
Dr K'yengo's men in front, and going on despite all entreaties to stop, we passed the last
bit of jungle, sighted the Kidi hills, and, in a sea of swampy grass, at last we stood in front
of and overlooked the great king's palace, situated N. lat. 1° 37' 43", and E. long. 32° 19'
49", on a low tongue of land between the Kafu and Nile rivers. It was a dumpy, large hut, surrounded
by a host of smaller ones, and the worst royal residence we had seen since leaving Uzinza.
Here Kajunju, coming from behind, overtook us, and breathless with running, in the most excited
manner, abused Dr K'yengo's men for leading us on, and ordered us to stop until he saw the
king, and ascertained the place his majesty wished us to reside in. Recollecting Mtesa's words
that Kamrasi placed his guest on the N'yanza, I declined going to any place but the palace,
which I maintained was my right, and waited for the issue, when Kajunju returned with pombe,
and showed us to a small, dirty set of huts beyond the Kafu river--the trunk of the Mwerango
and N'yanza branches which we crossed in Uganda--and trusted this would do for the present,
as better quarters in the palace would be looked for on the morrow. This was a bad beginning,
and caused a few of the usual anathemas in which our countrymen give vent to their irritation.

Two loads of flowers, neatly packed in long strips of rushpith, were sent for us "to consume
at once," as more would be given on the morrow. To keep us amused, Kidgwiga informed us that
Kamrasi and Mtesa--in fact, all the Wahuma--came originally from a stock of the same tribe
dwelling beyond Kidi. All bury their dead in the same way, under ground; but the kings are
toasted first for months till they are like sun-dried meat, when the lower jaw is cut out and
preserved, covered with beads. The royal tombs are put under the charge of special officers,
who occupy huts erected over them. The umbilical cords are preserved from birth, and, at death,
those of men are placed within the door-frame, whilst those of women are buried without--this
last act corresponding, according to Bombay, with the custom of the Wahiyow. On the death of
any of the great officers of state, the finger-bones and hair are also preserved; or if they
have died shaven, as sometimes occurs, a bit of their mbugu dress will be preserved in place
of the hair. Their families guard their tombs.

The story we heard at Karague, about dogs with horns in Unyoro, was confirmed by Kidgwiga,
who positively assured us that he once saw one in the possession of an official person, but
it died. The horn then was stuffed with magic powder, and, whenever an army was ordered for
war, it was placed on the war-track for the soldiers to step over, in the same way as a child
is sacrificed to insure victory in Unyomuezi. Of the Karague story, according to which all
the Kidi people sleep in trees, Kidgwiga gave me a modified version. He said the bachelors
alone do son, whilst the married folk dwell in houses. As most of these stories have some foundation
in fact, we presumed that the people of Kidi sometimes mount a tree to sleep at night when
travelling through their forests, where lions are plentiful--but not otherwise.

10th.--I sent Kidgwiga with my compliments to the king, and a request that his majesty would
change my residence, which was so filthy that I found it necessary to pitch a tent, and also
that he would favour me with an interview after breakfast. The return was a present of twenty
cows, ten cocks, two bales of flour, and two pots of pombe, to be equally divided between Grant
and myself, as Kamrasi recognised in us two distinct camps, because we approached his country
by two different routes--a smart method for expecting two presents from us, which did not succeed,
as I thanked for all, Grant being "my son" on this occasion. The king also sent his excuses,
and begged pardon for what happened to us on entering his country, saying it could not have
taken place had we come from Rumanika direct. His fear of the Waganda gave rise to it, and
he trusted we would forget and forgive. To-morrow our residence should be changed, and an interview
follow, for he desired being friends with us just as much as we did with him.

At last Bombay came back. He reported that he had not been allowed to leave the palace earlier,
though he pleaded hard that I expected his return; and the only excuse he could extract from
the king was, that we were coming in charge of many Wakungu, and he had found it necessary
to retard our approach in consequence of the famine at Chaguzi. His palace proper was not here,
but three marches westward: he had come here and pitched a camp to watch his brothers, who
were at war with him. Bombay, doing his best to escape, or to hurry my march, replied that
he was very anxious on our account, because the Waganda wished to snatch us away.

It was no doubt this hint that brought the messenger to our relief yesterday; and otherwise
we might have been kept in the jungle longer. When told by Bombay of our treatment on the Nile,
the king first said he did not think we wished to see him, else we would have come direct from
Rumanika; but when asked if Baraka's coming with Rumanika's officers was not sufficient to
satisfy him on this point, he hung down his head, and evaded the question, saying he had been
the making of Mtesa of Uganda; but he had turned out a bad fellow, and now robbed him right
and left. [23] The Gani letter, supposed to be from Petherick, was now asked for, and a suggestion
made about opening a trade with Gani, but all with the provoking result we had been so well
accustomed to. No letter like that referred to had ever been received, so that Frij's interpretation
about Grant's letter-dream was right; and if we wished to go to Gani, the king would send men
travelling by night, for his brothers at war with him lay upon the road. As to the Uganda question,
and my desiring him to make friends with Mtesa, in hopes that the influence of trade would
prevent any plundering in future, he merely tossed his head. He often said he did not know
what to think about his guests, now he had got them; to which Bombay, in rather successful
imitation of what he had heard me say on like occasions, replied, "If you do not like them
after you have seen them, cut their heads off, for they are all in your hands."

11th.--With great apparent politeness Kamrasi sent in the morning to inquire how we had slept.
He had "heard our cry"--an expression of regal condescension--and begged we would not be alarmed,
for next morning he would see us, and after the meeting change our residence, when, should
we not approve of wading to his palace, he would bridge all the swamps leading up to it; but
for the present he wanted two rounds of ball-cartridge--one to fire before his women, and the
other before his officers and a large number of Kidi men who were there on a visit. To please
this childish king, Bombay was sent with two other of my men, and no sooner arrived than a
cow was placed before them to be shot. Bombay, however, thinking easy compliance would only
lead to continued demands on our short store of powder, said he had no order to shoot cows,
and declined. A strong debated ensued, which Bombay, by his own account, turned to advantage,
by saying, "What use is there in shooting cows? we have lots of meat; what we want is flour
to eat with it." To which the great king retorted, "If you have not got flour, that is not
my fault, for I ordered your master to come slowly, and to bring provisions along with him."

Then getting impatient, as all his visitors wanted sport, he ordered the cow out again, and
insisted on my men shooting at it, saying at the same time to his Kidi visitors, boastfully,
"Now I will show you what devils these Wanguana are: with firearms they can kill a cow with
one bullet; and as they are going to Gani, I advise you not to meddle with them." The Kidi
visitors said, "Nonsense; we don't believe in their power, but we will see." Irate at his defeat,
Bombay gave orders to the men to fire over the cow, and told Kamrasi why he had done so--Bana
would be angry with him. "Well," said the king of kings, "if that is true, go back to your
master, tell him you have disappointed me before these men, and obtain permission to shoot
the cow in the morning; after which, should you succeed, your master can come after breakfast
to see me--but for the present, take him this pot of pombe."

12th.--To back Bombay in what he had said, I gave him two more cartridges to shoot the cow
with, and orders as well to keep Kamrasi to his word about the oft-promised interview and change
of residence. He gave me the following account on his return:--Upwards of a thousand spectators
were present when he killed the cow, putting both bullets into her, and all in a voice, as
soon as they saw the effect of the shot, shouted in amazement; the Kidi visitors, all terror-stricken,
crying out, as they clasped their breasts, "Oh, great king, do allow us to return to our country,
for you have indeed got a new specimen of man with you, and we are greatly afraid!"--a lot
of humbug and affectation to flatter the king, which pleased him greatly. It was not sufficient,
however, to make him forget his regal pride; for though Bombay pleaded hard for our going to
see him, and for a change of residence, the immovable king, to maintain the imperial state
he had assumed as "king of kings," only said, "What difference does it make whether your master
sees me to-day or to-morrow? If he wants to communicate about the road to Gani, his property
at Karague, or the guns at Uganda, he can do so as well through the medium of my officers as
with me direct, and I will send men whenever he wishes to do so. Perhaps you don't know, but
I expect men from Gani every day, who took a present of slaves, ivory and monkey-skins to the
foreigners residing there, who, in the first instance sent me a necklace of beads [showing
them] by some men who wore clothes. They said white men were coming from Karague, and requested
the beads might be shown them should they do so. They left this two moons before Baraka arrived
here, and I told them the white men would not come here, as I heard they had gone to Uganda."

Bombay then, finding the king very communicative, went at him for his inhospitality towards
us, his turning us back from his country twice, and now, after inviting us, treating us as
Suwarora did. On this he gave, by Bombay's account, the following curious reason for his conduct:--"You
don't understand the matter. At the time the white men were living in Uganda, many of the people
who had seen them there came and described them as such monsters, they ate up mountains and
drank the N'yanza dry; and although they fed on both beef and mutton, they were not satisfied
until they got a dish of the 'tender parts' of human beings three times a-day. Now, I was extremely
anxious to see men of such wonderful natures. I could have stood their mountain-eating and
N'yanzi-drinking capacities, but on no consideration would I submit to sacrifice my subjects
to their appetites, and for this reason I first sent to turn them back; but afterwards, on
hearing from Dr K'yengo's men that, although the white men had travelled all through their
country, and brought all the pretty and wonderful things of the world there, they had never
heard such monstrous imputations cast upon them, I sent a second time to call them on: these
are the facts of the case. Now, with regard to your accusation of my treating them badly, it
is all their own fault. I ordered them to advance slowly and pick up food by the way, as there
is a famine here; but they, instead, hurried on against my wishes. That they want to see and
give me presents you have told me repeatedly--so do I them; for I want them to teach me the
way to shoot, and when that is accomplished, I will take them to an island near Kidi, where
there are some men [his refractory brothers] whom I wish to frighten away with guns; but still
there is no hurry,--they can come when I choose to call them, and not before." Bombay to this
said, "I cannot deliver such a message to Bana; I have told so many falsehoods about your saying
you will have an interview to-morrow, I shall only catch a flogging"; and forthwith departed.

13th.--More disgusted with Kamrasi than ever, I called Kidgwiga up, and told him I was led
to expect from Rumanika that I should find his king a good and reasonable man, which I believed,
considering it was said by an unprejudiced person. Mtesa, on the contrary, told me Kamrasi
treated all his guests with disrespect, sending them to the farther side of the N'yanzi. I
now found his enemy more truthful than his friend, and wished him to be told so. "For the future,
I should never," I said, "mention his name again, but wait until his fear of me had vanished;
for he quite forgot his true dignity as a host and king in his surprise and fear, merely because
we were in a hurry and desired to see him." He was reported to-day, by the way, to be drunk.

As nothing could be done yesterday, in consequence of the king being in his cups, the Wakungu
conveyed my message to-day, but with the usual effect, till a diplomatic idea struck me, and
I sent another messenger to say, if our residence was not changed at once, both Grant and myself
had made up our minds to cut off our hair and blacken our faces, so that the king of all kings
should have no more cause to fear us. Ignoring his claims to imperial rank, I maintained that
his reason for ill-treating us must be fear,--it could be nothing else. This message acted
like magic; for he fully believed we would do as we said, and disappoint him altogether of
the strange sight of us as pure white men. The reply was, Kamrasi would not have us disfigured
in this way for all the world; men were appointed to convey our traps to the west end at once;
and Kidgwiga, Vittagura, and Kajunju rushed over to give us the news in all hast lest we should
execute our threat, and they were glad to find us with our faces unchanged. I now gave one
cow to the head of Dr K'yengo's party, and one to the head of Rumanika's men, because I saw
it was through their instrumentality we gained admittance in the country; and we changed residence
to the west end of Chaguzi, and found there comfortable huts close to the Kafu, which ran immediately
between us and the palace.

Still our position in Unyoro was not a pleasant one. In a long field of grass, as high as the
neck, and half under water, so that no walks could be taken, we had nothing to see but Kamrasi's
miserable huts and a few distant conical hills, of which one Udongo, we conceive, represents
the Padongo of Brun-Bollet, placed by him in 1° south latitude, and 35° east longitude. We
were scarcely inside our new dwelling when Kamrasi sent a cheer of two pots pombe, five fowls,
and two bunches of plantains, hoping we were now satisfied with his favour; but he damped the
whole in a moment again, by asking for a many-bladed knife which his officers had seen in Grant's
possession. I took what he sent, from fear of giving offence, but replied that I was surprised
the great king should wish to see my property before seeing myself, and although I attached
no more value to my property than he did to his, I could not demean myself by sending him trifles
in that way. However, should he, after hearing my sentiments, still persist in asking for the
knife to be sent by the hands of a black man, I would pack it up with all the things I had
brought for him, and send them by a black man, judging that he liked black men more than white.

Dr K'yengo's men then informed us they had been twice sent with an army of Wanyoro to attack
the king's brothers, on a river-island north of this about three days' journey, but each time
it ended in nothing. You fancy yourself, they said, in a magnificent army, but the enemy no
sooner turn out than the cowardly Wanyoro fly, and sacrifice their ally as soon as not into
the hands of the opponents. They said Kamrasi would not expect us to attack them with our guns.
Rionga was the head of the rebels; there were formerly five, but now only two of the brothers
remained.

15th.--Kamrasi, after inquiring after our health, and how we had slept, through a large deputation
of head men, alluded to the knife question of yesterday, thinking it very strange that after
giving me such nice food I should deny him the gratification of simply looking at a knife;
he did not intend to keep it if it was not brought for him, but merely to look at and return
it. To my reply of yesterday I added, I had been led, before entering Unyoro, to regard Kamrasi
as the king of all kings--the greatest king that ever was, and one worthy to be my father;
but now, as he expected me to amuse him with toys, he had lowered himself in my estimation
to the position of being my child. To this the sages said, "Bana speaks beautifully, feelingly,
and moderately. Of course he is displeased at seeing his property preferred before himself;
all the right is on his side: we will now return and see what can be done--though none but
white men in their greatest dare send such messages to our king."

Dr K'yengo's men were now attacked by Kidgwiga for having taken a cow from me yesterday, and
told they should not eat it, because both they and myself were the king's guests, and it ill
became one to eat that which was given as a dinner for the other. Fortunately, foreseeing this
kind of policy, as Kamrasi had been watching our actions, I invariably gave in presents those
cows which came with us from Uganda, and therefore defied any one to meddle with them. This
elicited the true facts of the case. Dr K'yengo's men had been sent out to our camp to observe
if anybody received presents from us, as Kamrasi feared his subjects would have the fleecing
of us before his turn came; and these men had reported the two cows given by me as mentioned
above. Kamrasi no sooner heard of this than he took the cows and kept them himself. In their
justification, Dr K'yengo's men said that had they not been in the country before us, Kamrasi
would not have had such guests at all; for when he asked them if the Waganda reports about
our cannibalism and other monstrosities were true, their head man denied it all, offered to
stand security for our actions, and told the king if he found us cannibals he might make a
Mohammedan of him, and sealed the statement with his oath by throwing down his shield and bow
and walking over them. To this Kamrasi was said to have replied, "I will accept your statements,
but you must remain with me until they come."

Kajunju came with orders to say Kamrasi would seize anybody found staring at us. I requested
a definite answer would be given as regards Kamrasi's seeing us. Dr K'yengo's men then said
they were kept a week waiting before they could obtain an interview, whilst Kajunju excused
his king by saying, "At present the court is full of Kidi, Chopi, Gani, and other visitors,
who he does not wish should see you, as some may be enemies in disguise. They are all now taking
presents of cows from Kamrasi, and going to their homes, and, as soon as they are disposed
of, your turn will come."

16th.--We kept quiet all day, to see what effect that would have upon the king. Kidgwiga told
us that, when he was a lad, Kamrasi sent him with a large party of Wanyoro to visit a king
who lived close to a high mountain, two months' journey distant, to the east or south-east
of this, and beg for a magic horn, as that king's doctor was peculiarly famed for his skill
as a magician. The party carried with them 600 majembe (iron spades), two of which expended
daily paid for their board and lodgings on the way. The horn applied for was sent by a special
messenger to Kamrasi, who, in return, sent one of his horns; from which date, the two kings,
whenever one of them wishes to communicate with the other, sends, on the messenger's neck,
the horn that had been given him, which both serves for credentials and security, as no one
dare touch a Mbakka with one of these horns upon his neck.

A common source of conversation among our men now was the desertion of their comrades, all
fancying how bitterly they would repent it when they heard how we had succeeded, eating beef
every day; and Uledi now, in a joking manner, abused Mektub for having urged him to desert.
He would not leave Bana, and if he had not stopped, Mektub would have gone, for they both served
one master at Zanzibar, and therefore were like brothers; whilst Mektub, laughing over the
matter as if it were a good joke, said, "I packed up my things to go, it is true; but I reflected
if I got back to the coast Said Majid would only make a slave of me again." M'yinzuggi, the
head of Rumanika's party, gave me to-day a tippet monkey-skin in return for the cow I had given
him on the 14th. These men, taking their natures from their king Rumanika, are by far the most
gentle, polite, and attentive of any black men we have travelled amongst.

17th.--Tired and out of patience with our prison--a river of crocodiles on one side, and swamps
in every other direction, while we could not go out shooting without a specific order from
the king--I sent Kidgwiga and Kajunju to inform Kamrasi that we could bear this life no longer.
As he did not wish to see white men, our residing here could be of no earthly use. I hoped
he would accept our present from Bombay, and give us leave to depart for Gani. The Wakungu,
who thought, as well as ourselves, that we were in nothing better than a prison, hurried off
with the message, and soon returned with a message from their king that he was busily engaged
decorating his palace to give us a triumphant reception; for he was anxious to pay us more
respect than anybody who had ever visited him before. We should have seen him yesterday, only
that it rained; and, as a precaution against our meeting being broken up, a shed was being
built. He could not hear of our leaving the country without seeing him.

18th.--At last we were summoned to attend the king's levee; but the suspicious creature wished
his officers to inspect the things we had brought for him before we went there. Here was another
hitch. I could not submit to such disrespectful suspicions, but if he wished Bombay to convey
my present to him, I saw no harm in the proposition. The king waived the point, and we all
started, carrying as a present the things enumerated in the note. [24] The Union Jack led the
way. At the ferry three shots were fired, when, stepping into two large canoes, we all went
across the Kafu together, and found, to our surprise, a small hut built for the reception,
low down on the opposite bank, where no strange eyes could see us.

Within this, sitting on a low wooden stool placed upon a double matting of skins--cows' below
and leopards' above--on an elevated platform of grass, was the great king Kamrasi, looking,
enshrouded in his mbugu dress, for all the world like a pope in state--calm and actionless.
One bracelet of fine-twisted brass wire adorned his left wrist, and his hair, half an inch
long, was worked up into small peppercorn-like knobs by rubbing the hand circularly over the
crown of the head. His eyes were long, face narrow, and nose prominent, after the true fashion
of his breed; and though a finely-made man, considerably above six feet high, he was not so
large as Rumanika. A cow-skin, stretched out and fastened to the roof, acted as a canopy to
prevent dust falling, and a curtain of mbugu concealed the lower parts of the hut, in front
of which, on both sides of the king, sat about a dozen head men.

This was all. We entered and took seats on our own iron stools, whilst Bombay placed all the
presents upon the ground before the throne. As no greetings were exchanged, and all at first
remained as silent as death, I commenced, after asking about his health, by saying I had journeyed
six long years (by the African computation of five months in the year) for the pleasure of
this meeting, coming by Karague instead of by the Nile, because the "Wanya Beri" (Bari people
at Gondokoro) had defeated the projects of all former attempts made by white men to reach Unyoro.
The purpose of my coming was to ascertain whether his majesty would like to trade with our
country, exchanging ivory for articles of European manufacture; as, should he do so, merchants
would come here in the same way as they went from Zanzibar to Karague. Rumanika and Mtesa were
both anxious for trade, and I felt sorry he would not listen to my advice and make friend with
Mtesa; for unless the influence of trade was brought in to check the Waganda from pillaging
the country, nothing would do so.

Kamrasi, in a very quiet, mild manner, instead of answering the questions, told us of the absurd
stories which he had heard from the Waganda, said he did not believe them, else his rivers,
deprived of their fountains, would have run dry; and he thought, if we did eat hills and the
tender parts of mankind, we should have had enough to satisfy our appetites before we reached
Unyoro. Now, however, he was glad to see that, although our hair was straight and our faces
white, we still possessed hands and feel like other men.

The present was then opened, and everything in turn placed upon the red blanket. The goggles
created some mirth; so did the scissors, as Bombay, to show their use, clipped his beard, and
the lucifers were considered a wonder; but the king scarcely moved or uttered any remarks till
all was over, when, at the instigation of the courtiers, my chronometer was asked for and shown.
This wonderful instrument, said the officers (mistaking it for my compass), was the magic horn
by which the white men found their way everywhere. Kamrasi said he must have it, for, besides
it, the gun was the only thing new to him. The chronometer, however, I said, was the only one
left, and could not possibly be parted with; though, if Kamrasi liked to send men to Gani,
a new one could be obtained for him.

Then, changing the subject, much to my relief, Kamrasi asked Bombay, "Who governs England?"
"A woman." "Has she any children?" "Yes," said Bombay, with ready impudence; "these are two
of them" (pointing to Grant and myself). That settled, Kamrasi wished to know if we had any
specked cows, or cows of any peculiar colour, and would we like to change four large cows for
four small ones, as he coveted some of ours. This was a staggerer. We had totally failed, then,
in conveying to this stupid king the impression that we were not mere traders, ready to bargain
with him. We would present him with cows if we had such as he wanted, but we could not bargain.
The meeting then broke up in the same chilling manner as it began, and we returned as we came,
but no sooner reached home than four pots of pombe were sent us, with a hope that we had arrived
all safely. The present gave great satisfaction. The Wanguana accused Frij of having "unclean
hands," because the beef had not lasted so long as it should do--it being a notable fact in
Mussulman creed, that unless the man's hands are pure who cuts the throat of an animal, its
flesh will not last fresh half the ordinary time.

19th.--As the presents given yesterday occupied the king's mind too much for other business,
I now sent to offer him one-third of the guns left in Uganda, provided he would send some messengers
with one of my men to ask Mtesa for them, and also the same proportion of the sixty loads of
property left in charge of Rumanika at Karague, if he would send the requisite number of porters
for its removal. But of all things, I said, I most wished to send a letter to Petherick at
Gani, to apprise him of our whereabouts, for he must have been four years waiting our arrival
there, and by the same opportunity I would get a watch for the king. He sent us to-day two
pots of pombe, one sack of salt, and what might be called a screw of butter, with an assurance
that the half of everything that came to his house--and everything was brought from great distances
in boats--he would give me; but for the present the only thing he was in need of was some medicine
or stimulants. Further, I need be under no apprehension if I did not find men at once to go
on the three respective journeys; it should be all done in good time, for he loved me much,
and desired to show us so much respect that his name should be celebrated for it in songs of
praise until he was bowed down by years, and even after death it should be remembered.

I ascertained then that the salt, which was very white and pure, came from an island on the
Little Luta Nzige, about sixty miles west from the Chaguzi palace, where the lake is said to
be forty or fifty miles wide. It is the same piece of water we heard of in Karague as the Little
Luta Nzige, beyond Utumbi; and the same story of Unyoro being an island circumscribed by it
and the Victoria N'yanza connected by the Nile, is related here, showing that both the Karague
and Unyoro people, as indeed all negroes and Arabs, have the common defect in their language,
of using the same word for a peninsula and an island. The Waijasi--of whom we saw a specimen
in the shape of an old woman, with her upper lip edged with a row of small holes, at Karague--occupy
a large island on this lake named Gasi, and sometimes come to visit Kamrasi. Ugungu, a dependency
of Kamrasi's, occupies this side, the lake, and on the opposite side is Ulegga; beyond which,
in about 2° N. lat. And 28° E. long., is the country of Namachi; and further west still about
2°, the Wilyanwantu, or cannibals, who, according to the report both here and at Karague, "bury
cows but eat men." These distant people pay their homage to Kamrasi, though they have six degrees
of longitude to travel over. They are, I believe, a portion of the N'yam N'yams--another name
for cannibal--whose country Petherick said he entered in 1857-58. Among the other wild legends
about this people, it was said that the Wilyanwantu, in making brotherhood, exchanged their
blood by drinking at one another's veins; and, in lieu of butter with their porridge, they
smear it with the fat of fried human flesh.

20th.--I had intended for to-day an expedition to the lake; but Kamrasi, harbouring a wicked
design that we should help in an attack on his brothers, said there was plenty of time to think
of that; we would only find that all the waters united go to Gani, and he wished us to be his
guests for three or four months at least. Fifty Gani men had just arrived to inform him that
Rionga had lately sent ten slaves and ten ivory tusks to Petherick's post, to purchase a gun;
but the answer was, that a thousand times as much would not purchase a weapon that might be
used against us; for our arrival with Kamrasi had been heard of, and nothing would be done
to jeopardise our road.

To talk over this matter, the king invited us to meet him. We went as before, minus the flag
and firing, and met a similar reception. The Gani news was talked over, and we proposed sending
Bombay with a letter at once. I could get no answer; so, to pass the time, we wished to know
from the king's own lips if he had prevented Baraka from going to Gani, as he had carried orders
from Rumanika as well as from myself to visit Kamrasi, to give him fifty egg-beads, seventy
necklaces of mtende, and seventy necklaces of kutuamnazi beads, and then to pass on to Gani
and give its chief fifty egg-beads and forty necklaces of kutuamnazi. Kamrasi replied, "I did
not allow him to go, because I heard you had gone to Uganda"; and Dr K'yengo's men happening
to be present, added, "Baraka used up all the beads save forty which he gave to Kamrasi, living
upon goats all the way; and when he left, took back a tusk of ivory."

This little controversy was amusing, but did not suit Kamrasi, who had his eye on a certain
valuable possession of mine. He made his approach towards it by degrees, beginning with a truly
royal speech thus: "I am the king of all these countries, even including Uganda and Kidi--though
the Kidi people are such savages they obey no man's orders--and you are great men also, sitting
on chairs before kings; it therefore ill becomes us to talk of such trifles as beads, especially
as I know if you ever return this way I shall get more from you." "Begging your majesty's pardon,"
I said, "the mention of beads only fell in the way of our talk like stones in a walk; our motive
being to get at the truth of what Baraka did and said here, as his conduct in returning after
receiving strict orders from Rumanika and ourselves to open the road, is a perfect enigma to
us. We could not have entered Unyoro at all excepting through Uganda, and we could not have
put foot in Uganda without visiting its king." Without deigning to answer, Kamrasi, in the
metaphorical language of a black man, said, "It would be unbecoming of me to keep secrets from
you, and therefore I will tell you at once; I am sadly afflicted with a disorder which you
alone can cure." "What is it, your majesty? I can see nothing in your face; it may perhaps
require a private inspection." "My heart," he said, "is troubled, because you will not give
me your magic horn--the thing, I mean, in your pocket, which you pulled out one day when Budja
and Vittagura were discussing the way; and you no sooner looked at it than you said, 'That
is the way to the palace.'"

So! the sly fellow has been angling for the chronometer all this time, and I can get nothing
out of him until he has got it--the road to the lake, the road to Gani, everything seemed risked
on his getting my watch--a chronometer worth £50, which would be spoilt in his hands in one
day. It was the only chronometer I had with me; and I begged he would have patience until Bombay
returned from Gani with another, when he should have the option to taking this or the new one.
"No; I must have the one in your pocket; pull it out and show it." This was done, and I placed
it on the ground, saying, "The instrument is yours, but I must keep it until another one comes."
"No; I must have it now, and will send it you three times every day to look at."

The watch went, gold chain and all, without any blessings following it; and the horrid king
asked if I could make up another magic horn, for he hoped he had deprived us of the power of
travelling, and plumed himself on the notion that the glory of opening the road would devolve
upon himself. Thus ended the second meeting. Kamrasi now said the Gani men would feast on beef
to-morrow, and the next day be ready to start with my men for Petherick's camp. He then accompanies
us to the boats, spear in hand, and saw us cross the water. Long tail-hairs of the giraffe
surrounded his neck, on which little balls and other ornaments of minute beads, after the Uganda
fashion, were worked. In the evening four pots of pombe and a pack of flour were brought, together
with the chronometer, which was sent to be wound up--damaged of course--the seconds-hand had
been dislodged.

21st.--I heard from Kidgwiga that some of those Gani men now ordered to go with Bombay had
actually been visiting here when the latter shot his first cow at the palace, but had gone
to their homes to give information of us, and had returned again. Eager to get on with my journey,
and see European faces again, I besought the king to let us depart, as our work was all finished
here, since he had assured us he would like to trade with England. The N'yanswenge--meaning
Petherick's party--who have hitherto been afraid to come here, would do so now, when they had
seen us pass safely down, and could receive my guns and property left to come from Uganda and
Karague, which we ourselves could not wait for. Kamrasi, thinking me angry for his having taken
the watch so rudely out of my pocket, took fright at the message, sent some of his attendants
quickly back to me, requesting me to keep the instrument until another arrived, and begged
I would never say I wished to leave his house again.

22d.--Kamrasi sent to say Bombay was not to start to-day, but to-morrow, so we put the screw
on again, and said we must go at once; if he would give us guides to Gani, we would return
him his twenty cows and seven goats with pleasure. I let him understand we suspected he was
keeping us here to fight his brothers, and told him he must at once know we would never lift
hand against them. It was contrary to the laws of our land. "I have got no orders to enter
into black men's quarrels, and my mother" (the Queen), "whom I see every night in my sleep
calling me home, would be very angry if she heard of it. Rumanika once asked me to fight his
brothers Rogero and M'yongo, but my only reply to all had been the same--I have no orders to
fight with, only to make friends of, the great kings of Africa."

The game seemed now to be won. At once Kamrasi ordered Bombay to prepare for the journey. Five
Wanyoro, five Chopi men, and five Gani men, were to escort him. There was no objection to his
carrying arms. The moment he returned, which ought to be in little more than a fortnight, we
would all go together. An earnest request was at the same time made that I would not bully
him in the mean time with any more applications to depart. So Bombay and Mabruki, carrying
there muskets, and a map and letter for Petherick, departed.

23d and 24th.--Kamrasi, presuming he had gained favour in our eyes, sent, begging to know how
we had slept, and said he would like us to inform him what part of his journey Bombay had this
morning reached--a fact which he had no doubt must be divinable through the medium of our books.
The reply was, that Bombay's luck was so good we had no doubt regarding his success; but now
he had gone, and our days here were numbered, we should like to see the palace, his fat wives
and children, as well as the Wanyoro's dances, and all the gaiety of the place. We did not
think our reception-hut by the river sufficiently dignified, and our residence here was altogether
like that of prisoners--seeing no one, knowing no one. In answer to this, Kamrasi sent one
pot of pombe and five fowls, begging we would not be alarmed; we should see everything in good
time, if we would but have patience, for he considered us very great men, as he was a great
man himself, and we had come at his invitation. He must request, in the mean time, that we
would send no more messages by his officers, as such messages are never conveyed properly.
At present there was a great deal of business in the palace.

We asked for some butter, but could get none, as all the milk in the palace was consumed by
the wives and children, drinking all day long, to make themselves immovably fat.

25th.--In the morning, the commander-in-chief wished us to cast a horoscope, and see where
Bombay was, and if he were getting on well. That being negatived, he told us to put our hut
in order, as Kamrasi was coming to see us. Accordingly we made everything as smart as possible,
hanging the room round with maps, horns, and skins of animals, and places a large box covered
with a red blanket, as a throne for the king to set upon. As he advanced, my men, forming a
guard of honour fired three shots immediately on his setting foot upon our side the river;
whilst Frij, with his boatswain's whistle, piped the 'Rogue's March,' to prepare us for his
majesty's approach. We saluted him, hat in hand, and, leading the way, showed him in. He was
pleased to be complimentary, remarking, what Waseja (fine men) we were, and took his seat.
We sat on smaller boxes, to appear humble, whilst his escort of black "swells" filled the doorway,
squatting on the ground, so as to stop the light and interfere with our decorations.

After the first salutations, the king remarked the head of a nsamma buck, and handled it; then
noticed my mosquito-curtains hanging over the bed, and begged for them. He was told they could
not be given until Bombay returned, as the mosquitoes would eat us up. "But there were two,"
said the escort, "for we have seen one in the other hut." That was true; but were there not
two white men? However, if the king wanted gauze, here was a smart gauze veil--and the veil
vanished at once. The iron camp-bed was next inspected, and admired; then the sextant, which
was coveted and begged for, but without success, much to the astonishment of the king, as his
attendants had led him to expect he would get anything he asked for. Then the thermometers
were wanted and refused; also table-knives, spoons, forks, and even cooking-pots, for we had
no others, and could not part with them. The books of birds and animals had next to be seen,
and being admired were coveted, the king offering one of the books I first gave him in exchange
for one of these. In fact, he wanted to fleece us of everything; so, to shut him up, I said
I would not part with one bird for one hundred tusks of ivory; they were all the collections
I had made in Africa, and if I parted with them my journey would go for nothing; but if he
wanted a few drawings of birds I would do some for him--at present I wished to speak to him.
"Well, what is it? we are all attention." "I wish to know positively if you would like English
traders to come here regularly, as the Arabs do to trade at Karague? and if so, would you give
me a pembe (magic horn) as a warrant, that everybody may know Kamrasi, king of Unyoro, desires it?"

Kamrasi replied, "I like your proposition very much; you shall have the horn you ask for, either
large or small, just as you please; and after you have gone, should we hear any English are
at Gani wishing to come here, as my brothers are in the way we will advance with spears whilst
they approach with guns, and between us both, my brothers must fly--for I myself will head
the expedition. But now you have had your say I will have mine if you will listen." "All right,
your majesty; what is it?" "I am constantly stricken with fever and pains, for which I know
no remedy but cautery; my children die young; my family is not large enough to uphold my dignity
and station in life; in fact, I am infirm and want stimulants, and I wish you to prescribe
for me, which considering you have found your way to this, where nobody came before, must be
easy to you." Two pills and a draught for the morning were given as a preliminary measure,
argument being of no avail; and to our delight the king said it was time to go.

We jumped off our seats to show him the way, hoping our persecutions were over; but still he
sat, and sat, until at length, finding we did not take the hint to give him a parting present,
he said, "I never visited any big man's house without taking home some trifle to show my wife
and children." "Indeed, great king! then you did not come to visit us, but to beg, eh? You
shall have nothing, positively nothing; for we will not have it said the king did not come
to see us, but to beg." Kamrasi's face changed colour; he angrily said, "Irokh togend" (let
us rise and go), and forthwith walked straight out of the hut. Frij piped, but no guns fired;
and as he asked the reason why he was told it would be offensive to say we were glad he was
going. The king was evidently not pleased for no pombe came to-day.

Chapter XVIII. Unyoro--Continued

The Ceremonies of the New Moon--Kamrasi's Rule and Discipline--An Embassy from Uganda, and
its Results--The Rebellious Brothers--An African Sorcerer and his Incantations--The Kamraviona
of Unyoro--Burial Customs--Ethiopian Legends--Complicated Diplomacy for our Detention--Proposal
to send Princes to England--We get away.

26th.--We found that the palace was shut up in consequence of the new moon, seen for the first
time last evening; and incessant drumming was the order of the day. Still, private interviews
might be granted, and I sent to inquire after the state of the king's health. The reply was,
that the medicine had not taken, and the king was very angry because nothing was given him
when he took the trouble to call on us. He never called at a big man's house and left it mwiko
(empty-handed) before; if there was nothing else to dispose of, could Bana not have given him
a bag of beads?

To save us from this kind of incessant annoyance, I now thought it would be our best policy
to mount the high horse and bully him. Accordingly, we tied up a bag of the commonest mixed
beads, added the king's chronometer, and sent them to Kamrasi with a violent message that we
were thoroughly disgusted with all that had happened; the beads were for the poor beggar who
came to our house yesterday, not to see us, but to beg; and as we did not desire the acquaintance
of beggars, we had made up our minds never to call again, nor receive any more bread or wine
from the king.

This appeared to be a hit. Kamrasi, evidently taken aback, said, if he thought he should have
offended us by begging, he would not have begged. He was not a poor man, for he had many cows,
but he was a beggar, of course, when beads were in the question; and, having unwittingly offended,
as he desired our friendship, he trusted his offence would be forgiven. On opening the chronometer,
he again wrenched back the seconds-hand, and sent it for repair, together with two pots of
pombe as a peace-offering. Frij, who accompanied the deputation, overheard the counsellors
tell their king that the Waganda were on their way back to Unyoro to snatch us away; on hearing
which the king asked his men if they would ever permit it; and, handling his spear as if for
battle, said at the same time he would lose his own head before they should touch his guests.
Then, turning to Frij, he said, "What would you do if they came?--go back with them?" To which
Frij said, "No, never, when Gani is so near; they might cut our heads off, but that is all
they could do." The watch being by this time repaired, it gave me the opportunity of sending
Kidgwiga back to the palace to say we trusted Kamrasi would allow Budja to come here, if only
with one woman to carry his pombe, else Mtesa would take offence, form an alliance with Rionga,
and surround the place with warriors, for it was not becoming in great kings to treat civil
messengers like dogs.

The reply to this was, that Kamrasi was very much pleased with my fatherly wisdom and advice,
and would act up to it, allowing Budja only to approach with one woman; we need, however, be
under no apprehensions, for Kamrasi's power was infinite; the Gani road should be opened even
at the spear's point; he had been beating the big drum in honour of us the whole day; he would
not allow any beggars to come and see us, for he wanted us all to himself, and for this reason
had ordered a fence to be built all round our house; but he had got no present from Grant yet,
though all he wanted was his mosquito-curtains, whilst he wished my picture-books to show his
women, and he returned. We sent a picture of Mtesa as a gift, the two books to look at and
an acknowledgement that the mosquito-curtains were his, only he must have patience until Bombay
arrived; but his proposition about the fence we rejected with scorn. The king had been raising
an army to fight Rionga--the true reason, we suspect, for the beating of the drums.

27th and 28th.--There was drumming and music all day and night, and the army was being increased
to a thousand men, but we poor prisoners could see nothing of it. Frij was therefore sent to
inspect the armament and brings us all the news. Some of N'yamyonjo's men, seeing mine armed
with carbines, became very inquisitive about them, and asked if they were the instruments which
shot at their men on the Nile--one in the arm, who died; the other on the top of the shoulder,
who was recovering. The drums were kept in private rooms, to which a select few only were admitted.
Kamrasi conducts all business himself, awarding punishments and seeing them carried out. The
most severe instrument of chastisement is a knob-stick, sharpened at the back, like that used
in Uganda, for breaking a man's neck before he is thrown into the N'yanza; but this severity
is seldom resorted to, Kamrasi being of a mild disposition compared with Mtesa, whom he invariably
alludes to when ordering men to be flogged, telling them that were they in Uganda, their heads
would suffer instead of their backs. In the day's work at the palace, army collecting, ten
officers were bound because they failed to bring a sufficient number of fighting men, but were
afterwards released on their promising to bring more.

Nothing could be more filthy than the state of the palace and all the lanes leading up to it:
it was well, perhaps, that we were never expected to go there, for without stilts and respirators
it would have been impracticable, such is the dirty nature of the people. The king's cows,
even, are kept in the palace enclosure, the calves actually entering the hut, where, like a
farmer, Kamrasi walks amongst them up to his ankles in filth, and, inspecting them, issues
his orders concerning them. What has to be selected for his guests he singles out himself.

Dr K'yengo's men, who had been sent three times into action against the refractory brothers,
asked leave to return to Karague; but the king, who did not fear for their lives when his work
was to be done, would not give them leave, lest accident should befall them on the way. We
found no prejudice against eating butter amongst these Wahuma, for they not only sold us some,
but mixed it with porridge and ate it themselves.

29th.--The king has appointed a special officer to keep our table supplied with sweet potatoes,
and sent us a pot of pombe, with his excuses for not seeing us, as business was so pressing,
and would continue to be so until the army marched. Budja and Kasoro were again reported to
be near with a force of fifty Waganda, prepared to snatch us away; and the king, fearing the
consequences, had sent to inform Budja, that if he dared attempt to approach, he would slip
us off in boats to Gani, and then fight it out with the Waganda; for his guests, since they
had been handed over to him, had been treated with every possible respect.

To keep Kamrasi to his promise, as we particularly wished to hear the Uganda news, Frij was
sent to inform him on my behalf that Mtesa only wished to make friends with all the great kings
surrounding his country before his coronation took place, when his brothers would be burnt,
and he would cease to take advice from his mother. To treat his messengers disrespectfully
could do no good, and might provoke a war, when we should see my deserters joined with the
Waganda really coming in force against us; whereas, if we saw Budja, we could satisfy him,
and Mtesa too, and obviate any such calamity. The reply was, that Kamrasi would arrange for
our having a meeting with Budja alone if we wished it; he did not fear my deserters siding
with king Mtesa, but he detested the Waganda, and could not bear to see them in his country.

30th.--At breakfast-time we heard that my old friend Kasoro had come to our camp without permission,
to the surprise of everybody, attended by all his boys, leaving Budja and his children, on
account of sickness, at the camp assigned to the Waganda, five miles off. Kasoro wished to
speak to us, and we invited him into the hut; but the interview could not be permitted until
Kamrasi's wishes on the subject had been ascertained. In a little while the Kamraviona, having
seen Kamrasi, said we might converse with one another whilst his officers were present listening,
and sent a cow as a present for the Waganda. Kasoro with his children now came before us in
their usual merry manner and, after saluting, told us how the deserters, on reaching Uganda,
begged for leave to proceed to Karague; but Mtesa, who would only allow two of them to approach
him, abused them, saying, "Did I not command you to take Bana to Gani at all risks? If there
was no road by land, you were to go by water; or, if that failed, to go under-ground, or in
the air above, and if he died, you were to die with him: what, then, do you mean by deserting
him and flying here? You shall not move a yard from this until I receive a messenger from him
to hear what he has got to say on the matter." Mtesa would not take their arms, even at the
desire of Budja, on my behalf; for as no messenger on my behalf came to him, he would not believe
what Budja said, and feared to touch any of our property. The chief item of court news was,
that Mtesa had shot a buffalo which was attacking him behind the palace, and made his Wakungu
carry the animal bodily, whilst life was in it, into his court. The ammunition I wrote for
to Rumanika had been brought by Maula.

As Kasoro still remained silent with regard to Mtesa's message, I told him we shot two of N'yamyonjo's
men on our retreat up the Nile, and that Kamrasi turned us back because some miscreant Waganda
had forged lies and told him we were terrible monsters, who ate hills and human flesh, and
drank up all the water of the lake. He laughed, but still was silent; so I said, "What message
have you brought from Mtesa?" To which, in a timid, modest kind of manner, he said, "Bana knows--what
more need I say? Has he forgotten Mtesa, who loves him so?" I said, "No, indeed, I have not
forgotten Mtesa; and, moreover, as I expected you back again, I have sent Bombay to bring the
stimulants and all the things I promised Mtesa from Gani; in two or three days he will return."
"No," said Kasoro, "that is not it; we must go to Gani with you; for Mtesa says he loves you
so much he will never allow you to part from his hand until his servants have seen you safely
at your homes."

I replied, "If Mtesa wishes you to see my vessels and all the wonders they contain, as far
as I am concerned you may do so, and I shall be only too happy to show you a little English
hospitality; but the road is in Kamrasi's hands, and his wishes must now be heard." The commander-in-chief,
now content with all he had heard, went to Kamrasi to receive his orders, whilst I gave Kasoro
a feast of porridge and salt, with pombe to wash it down, and a cow to take home with him;
for the poor creatures said they were all starving as the Wanyoro would not allow them to take
a single plantain from the field until Kamrasi's permission had been given.

Kamrasi's reply now arrived; it was to the following effect:--"Tell my children, the Waganda,
they were never turned out of Unyoro by my orders: if they wish to go to Gani, they can do
so; but, first of all, they must return to Mtesa, and ask him to deliver up all of Bana's men."
I answered, "No; if any one of those scoundrels who has deserted me ever dares show his face
to me again, I will shoot him like a dog. Moreover, I want Mtesa to take their guns from them,
and, without taking life, to transport them all to an island on the N'yanza, where they can
spend their days in growing plantains; for it is such men who prevent our travelling in the
country and visiting kings." Kasoro on this said, "Mtesa will do so in a minute if you send
a servant to him, but he won't if we only say you wish it."

The commander-in-chief then added, as to Kasoro's wish to accompany me, "If Mtesa will send
another time one of his people whose life he wishes sacrificed on the journey, or tells, Here
is a man whom I wish you to send to Gani at all hazards, and without responsibility for his
life on our part, we will be very glad to send him; but as we are at war with the Gani people
continually, there will be no security for a Mganda's life there." To this I added, "Now, Kasoro,
you see how it is; Kamrasi does not wish you to do to Gani, so if you take my advice you will
return to Mtesa. Give this tin cartridge-box, which first came from him, back to him again,
to show him you have seen me, and say, This is Bana's letter; he wishes you to transport the
deserters and seize their guns. The guns, of course, I shall want again at some other time,
when I will send one of my English children to visit him; for now Kamrasi has opened his country
to us, and given us leave to come and purchase ivory, I never shall be very far away." I gave
them three pills for Budja, blistered two of the pages, and started the whole merrily off,
Kasoro asking me to send Mtesa some pretty things from England such as he never saw.

1st.--Kamrasi sent his commander-in-chief to inquire after my health, and to say Budja had
left in fear and trembling lest Mtesa should cut all their heads off for failing in the mission;
but he had sent Kidgwiga's brother with a pot of pombe to escort the Waganda beyond his frontier,
and cheer them on the way; for the tin cartridge-box, he thought, would save their lives by
satisfying Mtesa they had seen me. The commander-in-chief then told me Kamrasi did not wish
them to accompany me through Kidi for the Kidi people don't like the Waganda, and, discovering
their nationality by the fullness of their teeth, would bring trouble on us whilst trying to
kill them. I said I thanked Kamrasi for his having treated the Waganda with such marked respect,
in allowing them to see me, and sending them back with an escort; but I thought it would have
been better if he had spoken the truth plainly out, for then I could have told them I feared
to have them in company with me. In return for my civilities, the king then send one of his
chopi officers to see me, who went four stages with Bombay, and he also sent some rich beads
which he wished me to look at. They were nicely kept in a neat though very large casing of
rush pith, and were those sent as a letter from Gani, to inform him that we were expected to
come via Karague. After this, to keep us in good-humour, Kamrasi sent to inform us that some
Gani men, twenty-five in number, had just arrived, and had given him a lion-skin, several tippet
monkey-skins, and some giraffe hair, as well as a stick of copper or brass wire. Bombay was
met by them on the confines of Gani.

2d.--The king sent me a pot of pombe to-day, inquiring after my health, and saying he would
like to take the medicine I gave him if I would send Frij over to administer it, but he would
be ashamed to swallow pills before me. Hitherto he had not been able to take the medicine from
press of business in collecting an army to fight his brothers; but as his troops would all
leave for war to-day, he expected to have leisure.

In plying the Kamraviona to try if we could get rid of the annoying restraints which made our
residence here a sort of imprisonment, I discovered that the whole affair was not one of blunder
or accident, but that we actually were prisoners thus be design. It appeared that Kamrasi's
brothers, when they heard we were coming into Unyoro, murmured, and said to the king, "Why
are you bringing such guests amongst us, who will practise all kinds of diabolical sorcery,
and bring evil on us?" To which Kamrasi replied, "I have invited them to come, and they shall
come; and if they bring evil with them, let that all fall on my shoulders, for you shall not
see them." He then built a palaver-house on the banks of the Kafu to receive us in privately;
and when we were to go to Gani, it was his intention to slip us off privately down the Kafu.
The brothers were so thoroughly frightened, that when Kamrasi opened his chronometer before
them to show them the works in motion, they turned their heads away. The large block-tin box
I gave Kamrasi, as part of his hongo, was, I heard, called Mzungu, or the white man, by him.

In the evening the beads recently brought from Gani were sent for my inspection, with an intimation
that Kamrasi highly approved of them, and would like me to give him a few like them. Some of
Kamrasi's spies, whom he had sent to the refractory allies of Rionga his brother, returned
bringing a spear and some grass from the thatch of the hut of a Chopi chief. The removal of
the grass was a piece of state policy. It was stolen by Kamrasi's orders, in order that he
might spread a charm on the Chopi people, and gain such an influence over them that their spears
could not prevail against the Wanyoro; but it was thought we might possess some still superior
magic powder, as we had come from such a long distance, and Kamrasi would prefer to have ours.
These Chopi people were leagued with the brothers, and thus kept the highroad to Gani, though
the other half of Chopi remained loyal; and though Kamrasi continually sent armies against
the refractory half which aided his brothers, they never retaliated by attacking this place.

We found, by the way, that certain drumming and harmonious accompaniments which we had been
accustomed to hear all day and night were to continue for four moons, in celebration of twins
born to Kamrasi since we came here.

3d.--Kamrasi's political department was active again to-day. Some Gani officials arrived to
inform him that there were two white men in the vessel spoken of as at Gani; a second vessel
was coming in there, and several others were on their way. A carnelian was shown me which the
Gani people gave to Kamrasi many years ago. Kamrasi expressed a wish that I would exchange
magic powders with him. He had a very large variety, and would load a horn for me with all
those I desired most. He wanted also medicines for longevity and perpetual strength. Those
I had given him had, he said, deprived him of strength, and he felt much reduced by their effects.
He would like me to go with him and attack the island his three brothers, Rionga, Wahitu, and
Pohuka, are in possession of. When I said I never fought with black men, he wished to know
if I would not shoot them if they attacked me. My replay was, alluding to our fight in the
river, "How did N'yamyonjo's men fare?" I found that Kamrasi had thirty brothers and as many
sisters.

4th.--I gave Kamrasi a bottle of quinine, which we call "strong back," and asked him in return
for a horn containing all the powders necessary to give me the gift of tongues, so that I should
be able to converse with any black men whom I might meet with. We heard that Kamrasi has called
all his Gani guests to play before him, and a double shot from his Blissett rifle announced
to our ears that he in turn was amusing them. This was the first time the gun had been discharged
since he received it, and, fearing to fire it himself, he called one of my men to do it for him.

5th.--At 9 a.m., the time for measuring the fall of rain for the last twenty-four hours, we
found the rain-gauge and the bottle had been removed, so we sent Kidgwiga to inform the king
we wished his magicians to come at once and institute a search for it. My men now, recollecting
the powder robbery at Uganda, said king Mtesa would not send his horn when I asked for it,
because he was the culprit himself.

6th.--Kidgwiga told us to-day that king Kamrasi's sisters are not allowed to wed; they live
and die virgins in his palace. Their only occupation in life consisted of drinking milk, of
which each one consumes the produce daily of from ten to twenty cows, and hence they become
so inordinately fat that they cannot walk. Should they wish to see a relative, or go outside
the hut for any purpose, it requires eight men to lift any of them on a litter. The brothers,
too, are not allowed to go out of his reach. This confinement of the palace family is considered
a state necessity, as a preventive to civil wars, in the same way as the destruction of the
Uganda princes, after a certain season, is thought necessary for the preservation of peace there.

7th.--In the morning the Kamraviona called, on the king's behalf, to inquire after my health,
and also to make some important communications. First he was to request a supply of bullets,
that the king might fire a salute when Bombay returned from Gani; next, to ask for stimulative
medicine, now that he had consumed all I gave him, and gone through the preliminary course;
further, to request I would spread a charm over all his subjects, so that their hearts might
be inclined towards him, and they would come without calling and bow down at his feet; finally,
he wished me to exchange my blood with him, that we might be brothers till death. I sent the
bullets, advised him to wait a day or two for the medicine, and said there was only one charm
by which he could gain the influence he required over his subjects--this was, knowledge and
the power of the pen. Should he desire some of my children (meaning missionaries) to come here
and instruct his, the thing would be done; but not in one year, nor even ten, for it takes
many years to educate children.

As to exchanging by blood with a black man's, it was a thing quite beyond my comprehension;
though Rumanika, I must confess, had asked me to do the same thing. The way the English make
lasting friendships is done either by the expressions of their hearts, or by the exchange of
some trifles, as keepsakes; and now, as I had given Kamrasi some specimens of English manufacture,
he might give me a horn, or anything else he chose, which I could show to my friends, so as
to keep him in recollection all my life.

The Kamraviona, before leaving, said, for our information, that a robbery had occurred in the
palace last night; for this morning, when Kamrasi went to inspect his Mzungu (the block-tin
box), which he had forgotten to lock, he found all his beads had been stolen. After sniffing
round among the various wives, he smelt the biggest one to be the culprit, and turned the beads
out of her possession. Deputies came in the evening with a pot of pombe and small screw of
butter, to tell me some Gani people had just arrived, bringing information that the vessel
at Gani had left to go down the river; but when intelligence reached the vessel of the approach
of my men they turned and came back again. Bombay was well feasted on the road by Kamrasi's
people, receiving eight cows from one and two cows from another.

8th and 9th.--We had a summons to attend at the Kafu palace with the medicine-chest, a few
select persons only to be present. It rained so much on the 8th as to stop the visit, but we
went next day. After arriving there, and going through the usual salutations, Kamrasi asked
us from what stock of people we came, explaining his meaning by saying, "As we, Rumanika, Mtesa,
and the rest of us (enumerating the kings), are Wawitu (or princes), Uwitu (or the country
of princes) being to the east." This interesting announcement made me quite forget to answer
his question, and induced me to say, "Omwita, indeed, as the ancient names for Mombas, if you
came from that place: I know all about your race for two thousand years or more. Omwita, you
mean, was the last country you resided in before you came here, but originally you came from
Abyssinia, the sultan of which, our great friend, is Sahela Selassie."

He pronounced this name laughing, and said, "Formerly our stock was half-white and half-black,
with one side of our heads covered with straight hair, and the other side frizzly: you certainly
do know everything." The subject then turned upon medicine, and after inspecting the chest,
and inquiring into all its contents, it ended by his begging for the half of everything. The
mosquito-curtains were again asked for, and refused until I should leave this. As Kamrasi was
anxious I should take two of his children to England to be instructed, I agreed to do so, but
said I thought it would be better if he invited missionaries to come here and educate all his
family. His cattle were much troubled with sickness, dying in great numbers--could I cure them?
As he again began to persecute us with begging, wanting knives and forks, etc., I advised his
using ivory as money, and purchasing what he wanted from Gani. This brought out the interesting
fact, the truth of which we had never reached before, that when Petherick's servant brought
him one necklace of beads, and asked after us, he gave in return fourteen ivories, thirteen
women, and seven mbugu cloths. One of his men accompanied the visitors back to the boats, and
saw Petherick, who took the ivory and rejected the women.

10th.--At 2 p.m. we were called by Kamrasi to visit him at the Kafu palace again, and requested
to bring a lot of medicines tied up in various coloured cloths, so that he might know what
to select for different ailments. We repaired there as before, putting the medicines into the
sextand-stand box, and found him lying at full length on the platform of his throne, with a
glass-bead necklace of various colours, and a charm tied on his left arm. Nobody was allowed
to be present at our interview. The medicines, four varieties, were weighed out into ten doses
each, and their uses and effects explained. He begged for four bottles to put them in, till
he was laughed out of it by our saying he required forty bottles; for if the powders were mixed,
how could he separate them again? And to keep his mind from the begging tack, which he was
getting alarmingly near, I said, "Now I have given you these things because you would insist
on having them. I must also tell you they are dangerous in your hands, in consequence of your
being ignorant of their properties. If you take my advice you won't meddle with them until
the two children you wish educated have learnt the use of them in England; and if I have to
take boys from this, I hope they will be of your family." He said, "You speak like a father
to us, and we very much approve. Here is a pot of pombe; I did not give you one yesterday."

11th.--To-day, the king having graciously granted permission, we went out shooting, but saw
only a few buffalo tracks.

12th.--The Kamraviona was sent to inquire after our health, and to ascertain from me all I
knew respecting the origin of Kamrasi's tribe, the distribution of countries, and the seat
of the government. I sent the king a diagram, painted in various colours, with full explanations
of everything, and asked permission to send two more of my men in search of Bombay, who had
now been absent twenty days. The reply was, that if Bombay did not return within four days,
Kamrasi would send other men after him on the fifth day; and, in the meantime, he sent one
pot of pombe as a token of his kind regard.

13th.--The Kamraviona was sent to inquire after our health, to ask for medicine for himself,
and to inquire more into the origin of his race. I, on the other hand, wishing to make myself
as disagreeable as possible, in order that Kamrasi might get tired of us, sent Frij to ask
for fresh butter, eggs, tobacco, coffee, and fowls, every day, saying, I will pay their price
when I reach Gani, for we were suffering from want of proper food. Kamrasi was surprised at
this clamour for food, and inquired what we ate at home that we were so different from everybody
else.

We heard to-day a strange story, involving the tragic fate of Budja. On coming here, he had
been bewitched by Kamrasi's frontier officer, who put the charm into a pot of pombe. From the
moment Budja drank it he was seized with sickness, and remained so until he reached the first
station in Uganda, when he died. The facts of the bewitchment had been found out by means of
the perpetrator's wives, who, from the moment the pombe was drunk, took to precipitate flight,
well knowing what effects would follow, and dreading the chastisement Mtesa would bring upon
their household. We heard, too, that the deserters had returned to the place they deserted
from, with thirty Waganda, and a present of some cows for me.

14th.---Kamrasi sent me four parcels of coffee, very neatly enclosed in rush pith.

15th.--Getting more impatient, and desirous to move on at any sacrifice, I proposed giving
up all claims to my muskets, as well as the present of cows from Mtesa, if Kamrasi would give
us boats to Gani at once; but the reply was simply, Why be in such a hurry?

16th.--The Kamraviona was sent to us with a load of coffee, which Kamrasi had purchased with
cowries, and to inquire how we had slept. Very badly, was the reply, because we knew Bombay
would have been back long ago if Kamrasi was not concealing him somewhere, and we did not know
what he was doing with deserters and Waganda. Kamrasi then wanted us to paint his mbugu cloths
in different patterns and colours; but we sent him instead six packages of red-ink powder,
and got abused for sauciness. He then wanted black ink, else how could he put on the red with
taste; but we had none to give him. Next, he asked leave for my men to shoot cows, before his
Kidi visitors, which they did to his satisfaction, instructing him at the same time to fire
powder with his own rifle; when, triumphant with his success, he protested he would never use
anything but guns again, and threw away his spear as useless. Bombay, we learned, had reached
Gani, and ought to return in eight days.

17th and 18th.--A large party of Chopi people arrived, by Kamrasi's orders, to tell the reason
which induced them to apply for guns to the white men at Gani, as it appeared evident they
must have wished to fight their king. The Kidi visitors got broken heads for helping themselves
from the Wanyoro's fields, and when they cried out against such treatment, were told they should
rob the king, if they wished to rob at all.

19th.--Nothing was done because Kamrasi was dismissing his Kidi guests, 200, with presents
of cows and women.

20th.--Having asked Kamrasi to return my pictures, he sent the book of birds, but not of animals;
and said he could not see us until a new hut was built, because the old one was flooded by
the Kafu, which had been rising several days. We must not, he said, talk about Bombay any more,
because everybody said he was detained by the N'yanswenge (Petherick's party), and would return
here with the new moon. I would not accept the lie, saying, How can my "children" at Gani detain
my messengers, when they have received strict orders from me by letter to send an answer quickly?
It was all Kamrasi's doing, for he had either hidden Bombay, or ordered his officers to take
him slowly, as he did us, stopping four days at each stage.

Frij again told me he was present when Said Said, the Sultan of Zanzibar, sent an army to assist
the Wagunya at Amu, on the coast, against the incursions of the Masai. These Amu people have
the same Wahuma features as Kamrasi, whom they also resemble both in general physical appearance,
and in many of them having circular marks, as if made by cautery, on the forehead and temples.
These marks I took not to be tatooing or decorative, but as a cure for disease--cautery being
a favourite remedy with both races.

The battle lasted only two days, though the Masai brought a thousand spears against the Arabs'
cannon. But this was not the only battle Said Said had to fight on those grounds; for some
years previously he had to subdue the Waziwa, who live on very marshy land, into respect for
his sovereignty, when the battle lasted years, in consequence of the bad nature of the ground,
and the trick the Waziwa had of staking the ground with spikes. The Wasuahili, or coast-people,
by his description, are the bastards or mixed breeds who live on the east coast of Africa,
extending from the Somali country to Zanzibar. Their language is Kisuahili; but there is no
land Usuahili, though people talk of going to the Suahili in the same vague sense as they do
of going to the Mashenzi, or amongst the savages. The common story amongst the Wasuahili at
Zanzibar, in regard to the government of that island, was, that the Wakhadim, or aborigines
of Zanzibar, did not like the oppressions of the Portuguese, and therefore allied themselves
to the Arabs of Muscat--even compromising their natural birthright of freedom in government,
provided the Arabs, by their superior power, would secure to them perpetual equity, peace and
justice. The senior chief, Sheikh Muhadim, was the mediator on their side, and without his
sanction no radial changes compromising the welfare of the land could take place; the system
of arbitration being, that the governing Arab on the one side, and the deputy of the Wakhadim
on the other, should hold conference with a screen placed between them, to obviate all attempts
at favour, corruption, or bribery.

The former report of the approach of my men, with as many Waganda and cows for me, turned out
partly false, inasmuch as only one of my men was with 102 Waganda, whilst the whole of the
deserters were left behind in Uganda with cows; and Kamrasi hearing this, ordered all to go
back again until the whole of my men should arrive.

21st.--I was told how a Myoro woman, who bore twins that died, now keeps two small pots in
her house, as effigies of the children, into which she milks herself every evening, and will
continue to do so five months, fulfilling the time appointed by nature for suckling children,
lest the spirits of the dead should persecute her. The twins were not buried, as ordinary people
are buried, under ground, but placed in an earthenware pot, such as the Wanyoro use for holding
pombe. They were taken to the jungle and placed by a tree, with the pot turned mouth downwards.
Manua, one of my men, who is a twin, said, in Nguru, one of the sister provinces to Unyanyembe,
twins are ordered to be killed and thrown into water the moment they are born, lest droughts
and famines or floods should oppress the land. Should any one attempt to conceal twins, the
whole family would be murdered by the chief; but, though a great traveller, this is the only
instance of such brutality Manua had ever witnessed in any country.

In the province of Unyanyembe, if a twin or twins die, they are thrown into water for the same
reason as in Nguru; but as their numbers increase the size of the family, their birth is hailed
with delight. Still there is a source of fear there in connection with twins, as I have seen
myself; for when one dies, the mother ties a little gourd to her neck as a proxy, and puts
into it a trifle of everything which she gives the living child, lest the jealousy of the dead
spirit should torment her. Further, on the death of the child, she smears herself with butter
and ashes, and runs frantically about, tearing her hair and bewailing piteously; whilst the
men of the place use towards her the foulest language, apparently as if in abuse of her person,
but in reality to frighten away the demons who have robbed her nest.

22d.--I sent Frij to Kamrasi to find out what he was doing with the Waganda and my deserters,
as I wished to speak with their two head representatives. I also wanted some men to seek for
and to fetch Bombay, as I said I believed him to be tied by the leg behind one of the visible
hills in Kidi. The reply was, 102 Waganda, with one of my men only, had been stationed at the
village my men deserted from since the date (13th) we heard of them last. They had no cows
for me, but each of the Waganda bore a log of firewood, which Mtesa had ordered them to carry
until they either returned with me or brought back a box of gunpowder, in default of which
they were to be all burnt in a heap with the logs they carried. Kamrasi, still acting on his
passive policy, would not admit them here, but wished them to return with a message, to the
effect that Mtesa had no right to hold me as his guest now I had once gone into another's hands.
We were all three kings to do with our subjects as we liked, and for this reason the deserters
ought to be sent on here; but if I wished to speak to the Waganda, he would call their officer.
There was no fear, he said, about Bombay; he was on his way; but the men who were escorting
him were spinning out the time, stopping at every place, and feasting every day. To-morrow,
he added, some more Gani people would arrive here, when we should know more about it. I still
advised Kamrasi to give the road to Mtesa provided he gave up plundering the Wanyoro of women
and cattle; but if my counsel was listened to, I could get no acknowledgment that it was so.

23d and 24th.--I sent to inquire what news there was of Bombay's coming, and what measures
Kamrasi had taken to call the Waganda's chief officer and my deserters here; as also to beg
he would send us specimens of all the various tribes that visit him, in order that me might
draw them. He sent four loads of dried fish, with a request for my book of birds again, as
it contains a portrait of king Mtesa, and proposed seeing us at the newly-constructed Kafu
palace to-morrow, when all requests would be attended to. In the meanwhile, we were told that
Bombay had been seen on his way returning from Gani; and the Waganda had all run away frightened,
because they were told the Kidi and Chopi visitors, who had been calling on Kamrasi lately,
were merely the nucleus of an army forming to drive them away, and to subdue Uganda. Mtesa
was undergoing the coronation formalities, and for this reason had sent the deserters to Kari's
hill, giving them cows and a garden to live on, as no visitors can remain near the court while
the solemnities of the coronation were going on. The thirty-odd brothers will be burnt to death,
saving two or three, of which one will be sent into this country--as was the case with one
of the late king Sunna's brothers, who is still in Unyoro--and the others will remain in the
court with Mtesa as playfellows until the king dies, when, like Sunna's two brothers still
living in Uganda, one at N'yama Goma and one at Ngambezi, they will be pensioned off. After
the coronation is concluded, it is expected Mtesa will go into Kittari, on the west of Uganda,
to fight first, and then, turning east, will fight with the Wasoga; but we think if he fights
anywhere, it will be with Kamrasi.

25th and 26th.--I sent Frij to the palace to inquire after Bombay, and got the usual reply:
"Why is Bana in such a hurry? He is always for doing things quickly. Tell my 'brother' to keep
his mind at rest; Bombay is now on the boundary of Gani coming here, and will in due course
arrive." Both Rumanika's men and those belonging to Dr K'yengo asked Kamrasi's leave to return
to their homes, but were refused, because the road was unsafe. "Had they not," it was said,
"heard of Budja's telling Mtesa that K'yengo's children prevented the white men from returning
to Uganda? and since then Mtesa had killed his frontier officer for being chicken-hearted,
afraid to carry out his orders, and had appointed another in his stead, giving him strict orders
to make prisoners of all foreigners who might pass that way; and, further, when some twenty
Wanyoro were going to Karague, they were hunted down by Mtesa's orders, and three of their
number killed; for he was determined to cut off all intercourse between this country and Karague.
They must therefore wait till the road is safe."

Hearing this, Dr K'yengo's men, who happened to be as well off here as anywhere, accepted the
advice; but Rumanika's men said, "We are starving; we have been here too long already doing
nothing, and must go, let what will happen to us." Kamrasi said, "What will be the use of your
going empty-handed? I cannot send cows and slaves to Rumanika when the road is so unsafe; you
must wait a bit." But they still urged as before, and so forced the king reluctantly to acquiesce,
but only on the condition that two of their head men should remain behind until some more of
Rumanika's men came to fetch them away--in fact, as we had been accredited to him by Rumanika,
he wanted to keep some of that king's people as a security until we were out of his hands.

27th.--I sent Frij to the palace to ask once more for leave to visit the Luta Nzige river-lake
to the westward, and to request Kamrasi would send men to fetch my property from Karague. He
sent four loads of small fish and one pot of pombe, to say he would see me on the morrow, when
every arrangement would be made. Late at night orders came announcing that I might write my
despatches, as sixty men were ready to start for Karague.

28th.--I sent one of my men with despatches to Kamrasi, who detained him half the day, and
then ordered him to call to-morrow. This being the fifteenth or twentieth time Kamrasi had
disappointed me, after promising an interview, that we might have a proper understanding about
everything, and when no begging on his party was to interrupt our conversation, I sent him
a threatening message, to see what effect that would have. The purport of it was, that I was
afraid to send men to Karague, now I had seen his disposition to make prisoners of all who
visit him. Here had I been kept six weeks waiting for Bombay's return from Gani, where I only
permitted him to go because I was told the journey to and fro would only occupy from eight
to ten days at most. Then Rumanika's men, who came here with Baraka, though daily crying to
get away, were still imprisoned here, without any hope before them. If I sent Msalima, he would
be kept ten years on the road. If I went to the lake Luta Nzige, God only knows when he would
let me come back; and now, for once and for all, I wished to sacrifice my property, and leave
the countries of black kings; for what Kamrasi had done, Mtesa had done likewise, detaining
the two men I detached on a friendly mission, which made me fear to send any more and inquire
after my guns, lest he should seize them likewise. I would stay no longer among such people.

Kamrasi, in answer, begged I would not be afraid; there was no occasion for alarm; Bombay would
be here shortly. I had promised to wait patiently for his return, and as soon as he did return,
I would be sent off without one day's delay, for I was not his slave, that he should use violence
upon me. Rumanika's men, too, would be allowed to go, only that the road was unsafe, and he
feared Rumanika would abuse him if any harm befell them.

29th.--To-day I met Kamrasi at his new reception-palace on this side the Kafu--taking a Bible
to explain all I fancied I knew about the origin and present condition of the Wahuma branch
of the Ethiopians, beginning with Adam, to show how it was the king had heard by tradition
that at one time the people of his race were half white and half black. Then, proceeding with
the Flood, I pointed out that the Europeans remained white, retaining Japhet's blood; whilst
the Arabs are tawny, after Shem; and the African's black, after Ham. And, finally, to show
the greatness of the tribe, I read the 14th chapter of 2d Chronicles, in which it is written
how Zerah, the Ethiopian, with a host of a thousand thousand, met the Jew Asa with a large
army, in the valley of Zephathah, near Mareshah; adding to it that again, at a much later date,
we find the Ethiopians battling with the Arabs in the Somali country, and with the Arabs and
Portuguese at Omwita (Mombas)--in all of which places they have taken possession of certain
tracts of land, and left their sons to people it.

To explain the way in which the type or physical features of people undergo great changes by
interbreeding, Mtesa was instanced as having lost nearly every feature of his Mhuma blood,
but the kings of Uganda having been produced, probably for several generations running, of
Waganda mothers. This amused Kamrasi greatly, and induced me to inquire how his purity of blood
was maintained--"Was the king of Unyoro chosen, as in Uganda, haphazard by the chief men--or
did the eldest son sit by succession on the throne?" The reply was, "The brothers fought for
it, and the best man gained the crown."

I begged for my picture-books, which were only lent him at his request for a few days; and
then began a badgering verbal conflict: he would not return them until I drew others like them;
he would not allow me to go to the Little Luta Nzige, west of this, until Bombay returned,
when he would send me with an army of spears to lead the way, and my men with their guns behind
to protect the rear. This was for the purpose of making us his tools in his conflict with his
brothers. I complained that he had, without consulting me, ordered away the men who had been
sent, either to fetch me back to Uganda, or else get powder from me, although they had orders
to carry out their king's desire, under the threat of being burnt with the fire logs they carried;
and all this Kamrasi had professed to do merely out of respect for my dignity, as I was no
slave, that Mtesa should order me about. I argued, founding on each particular in succession,
that his conduct throughout was most unjustifiable, and anything but friendly. He then produced
an officer, who was to escort my man Msalima to Karague, giving him orders to collect the sixty
men required on the way; five of Rumanika's men could go with him, but five must stop, until
other Karague men came to say the road was safe, when he would send by them the present he
had prepared for Rumanika.

Then, turning to us, he said, "Why have you not brought the medicine-chest and the saw? We
wish to see everything you have got, though we do not wish to rob you." When these things came
for inspection, he coveted the saw, and discovered there were more varieties of medicine in
the chest than had been given him. This he was told was not the case, because the papers given
him contained mixed medicines--a little being taken from every bottle. "But there are no pills;
why won't you give us pills? We have men, women, and children who require pills as well as
you do." We were much annoyed by this dogged begging; and as he said, "Well, if you won't give
my anything, I will go," we at once rose, hat in hand; when, regretting the hastiness of his
speech, he begged us to be seated again, and renewed his demands. We told him the road to Gani
was the only condition on which we would part with any more medicine; we had asked leave to
go a hundred times, and that was all we now desired. At last he rose and walked off in a huff;
but, repenting before he reached home, he sent us a pot of pombe, when, in return, I finished
the farce by sending him a box of pills.

30th.--I gave Msalima a letter in the Kisuahili or coast language to convey to Rumanika, ordering
all my property to be sent here, his account of the things as they left him to be given to
Msalima to convey to the coast, while I sent him one pound of gunpowder as a sort of agency
fee. Msalima also took a map of all the countries we had passed, with lunar observations, and
a letter to Rigby, by which he, Baraka, and Uledi would be able to draw their pay on arrival.

31st.--I sent Frij with a letter to the king, containing an acknowledgment that, on the arrival
of the rear property from Karague, he would be entitled to half of everything, reserving the
other half for any person I might in future send to take them from him. He accepted the letter,
and put it into his mzungu--the tin box I had given him. He said he would take every care of
the kit from the time it arrived, and would not touch his share of it till my deputy arrived.
An inhabitant of Chopi reported that he heard Bombay's gun fire the evening before he left
home, and was rewarded with the present of a cow.

1st.--I purchased a small kitten, Felis serval, from an Unyoro man, who requested me to give
it back to him to eat if it was likely to die, for it is considered very good food in Unyoro.

Bombay at last arrived with Mabruki in high glee, dressed in cotton jumpers and drawers, presents
given them by Petherick's outpost. The jemadar of the guard said he commanded two hundred Turks,
and had orders to wait for me, without any limit as to time, until I should arrive, when Petherick's
name would be pointed out to me cut on a tree; but as no one in camp could read my letter,
they were doubtful whether we were the party they were looking out for.

They were all armed with elephant-guns, and had killed sixteen elephants. Petherick had gone
down the river eight days' journey, but was expected to return shortly. Kamrasi would not see
Bombay immediately on his return, but sent him some pombe, and desired an interview the following
day.

2d.--I sent Bombay with a farewell present to Kamrasi, consisting of one tent, one mosquito-curtain,
one roll of bindera or red cotton cloth, one digester pot, one saw, six copper wires, one box
of beads, containing six varieties of the best sort, and a request to leave his country. Much
pleased with the things, Kamrasi ordered the tent to be pitched before all his court, pointed
out to them what clever people the white people are, making iron pots instead of earthen ones.
Covetous and never satisfied, however, instead of returning thanks, he said he was sure I must
have more beads than those I sent him; and, instead of granting the leave asked for, said he
would think about it, and send the Kamraviona in the evening with his answer. This, when it
came, was anything but satisfactory; for we were required to stop here until the king should
have prepared the people on the road for our coming, so that they might not be surprised, or
try to molest us on the way. Kamrasi, however, returned the books of birds and animals, requesting
a picture of the king of Uganda to be drawn for him, and gave us one pot of pombe.

3d.--I sent the picture required, and an angry message to Kamrasi for breaking his word, as
he promised us we should go without a day's delay; and go we must, for I could neither eat
nor sleep from thinking of my home. His only reply to this was, Bana is always in a preposterous
hurry. He answered, that for our gratification he had directed a dwarf called Kimenya to be
sent to us, and the Kamraviona should follow after. Kimenya, a little old man, less than a
yard high, called on us with a walking-stick higher than himself, made his salaam, and sat
down very composedly. He then rose and danced, singing without invitation, and following it
up with queer antics. Lastly, he performed the tambura, or charging-march, in imitation of
Wakugnu, repeating the same words they use, and ending by a demand for simbi, or cowrie-shells,
modestly saying, "I am a beggar, and want simbi; if you have not 500 to spare, you must at
any rate give me 400."

He then narrated his fortune in life. Born in Chopi, he was sent for by Kamrasi, who first
gave him two women, who died; then another, who ran away; and, finally, a distorted dwarf like
himself, whom he rejected, because he thought the propagation of his pigmy breed would not
be advantageous to society. Bombay then marched him back to the palace, with 500 simbi strung
in necklaces round his neck. When these two had gone, the Kamraviona arrived with two spears,
one load of flour, and a pot of pombe, which he requested me to accept, adding that the spears
were given as it was observed I had accepted some from the king of Uganda; a shield was still
in reserve for me, and spears would be sent for Grant. Then with regard to my going, Kamrasi
must beg us to have patience until he had sent messengers into Kidi, requesting the natives
there not to molest me on the way, for they had threatened they would do so, and if they persisted,
he would send us with a force by another route via Ugungu--another attempt to draw us off to
fight against his brothers.

I stormed at this announcement as a breach of faith; said I had given the king my only tent,
my only digester, my only saw, my only wire, my only mosquito-curtains, and my last of everything,
because he had assured me I should have to pay no more chiefs, and he would give me the road
at once. If he did not intend now to fulfil his promise, I begged he would take back his spears,
for I would only accept them as a farewell present. The Kamraviona finding me rather warm,
with the usual pertinacious duplicity of a negro, then said, "Well, let that subject drop,
and consider the present Kamrasi promised you when you gave him the Uganga" (meaning the watch);
"Kamrasi's horn is not ready yet." This second prevarication completely set my dander up. If
I did not believe in his dangers of the way before, it quite settled my opinion of the worth
of his words now. I therefore tendered him what might be called the ultimatum to this effect.
There was no sincerity in such haggling; I would not submit to being told lies by kings or
anybody else. He must take back the spears, or give us the road to-morrow; and unless the Kamraviona
would tell him this and bring me an answer at once, the spears should not remain in my house
during the night. Evidently in alarm, the Kamraviona, with Kidgwiga and Frij in company to
bear him witness, returned to the palace, telling Kamrasi that he saw we were in thorough earnest.
He extracted a promise that Kamrasi would have a farewell meeting with us either to-morrow
or the next day, when we should have a large escort to Petherick's boats, and the men would
be able to bring back anything that he wanted; but he could not let us go without a parting
interview, such as we had at Uganda with Mtesa.

The deputation, delighted with their success and the manner in which it was effected, hurried
back to me at once, and said they were so frightened themselves that they would have skulked
away to their homes and not come near me if they could not have arranged matters to my satisfaction.
Kamrasi would not believe I had threatened to turn out his spears until Frij testified to their
statements; and he then said, "Let Bana keep the spears and drink the pombe, for I would not
wish him to be a prisoner against his will." Bombay, after taking back the dwarf, met one of
N'yamasore's officers, just arrived from Uganda on some important business, and upbraided Mtesa
for not having carried out my instructions. The officer in turn tried to defend Mtesa's conduct
by saying he had given the deserters seventy cows and four women, as well as orders to join
us quickly; but they had been delayed on the road, because wherever they went they plundered,
and no one liked their company. Had we returned to Uganda, Mtesa would have given us the road
through Masai, which, in my opinion, is nearer for us than this one.

This officer had been wishing to see us as much as we had been to see him; but Kamrasi would
not allow him to get access to us, for fear, it was said, lest the Waganda should know where
we were hidden, and enable Mtesa to send an army to come and snatch us away. As the officer
said he would deliver any message I might wish to send to Uganda, I folded a visiting-card
as a letter to the queen-dowager, intimating that I wished the two men whom I sent back to
Mtesa to be forwarded on to Karague; but desired that the remainder, who deserted their master
in difficulty, should be placed on an island of the N'yanza to live in exile until some other
Englishman should come to release them; that their arms should be taken from them and kept
in the palace. I said further, that should Mtesa act up to my desires, I would then know he
was my friend, and other white men would not fear to enter Uganda; but if he acted otherwise,
they would fear lest he should imprison them, or seize their property of their men. If these
deserters escaped punishment, no white men would ever dare trust their lives with such men
again. The officer said he should be afraid to deliver such a message to Mtesa direct; but
he certainly would tell the queen every word of it, which would be even more efficacious.

4th.--I bullied Kamrasi by telling him we must go with this moon, for the benefit of its light
whilst crossing the Kidi wilderness; as if we did not reach the vessels in time for seasonable
departure down the Nile, we should have to wait another year for their return from Khartum.
"What!" said Kamrasi, "does Bana forget my promised appointment that I would either see him
to-day or to-morrow? I cannot do so to-day, and therefore to-morrow we will certainly meet
and bid good-bye." The Gani men, who came with Bombay, said they would escort us to their country,
although, as a rule, they never cross the Kidi wilderness above once in two years, from fear
of the hunting natives, who make gave of everybody and everything they see; in other words,
they seize strangers, plunder them, and sell them as slaves. To cross that tract, the dry season
is the best, when all the grass is burnt down, or from the middle of December to the end of
March. I gave them a cow, and they at once killed it, and, sitting down, commenced eating her
flesh raw, out of choice.

5th.--The Kamraviona came to inform us that the king was ready for the great interview, where
we could both speak what we had at heart, for as yet he had only heard what our servants had
to say; and there was a supplement to the message, of the usual kind, that he would like a
present of a pencil. The pencil was sent in the first place, because we did not like talking
about trifles when we visited great kings.

The interview followed. It was opened on our side by our saying we had enjoyed his hospitality
a great number of days, and wished to go to our homes; should he have any message to send to
the great Queen of England, we should be happy to convey it. A long yarn then emanated from
the throne. He defended his over-cautiousness when admitting us into Unyoro. It was caused
at first by wicked men who did not wish us to visit him; he subsequently saw through their
representations, and now was very pleased with us as he found us. Of course he could not tie
us down to stopping here against our wish, but, for safety's sake, he would like us to stop
a little longer, until he could send messengers ahead, requesting the wild men in Kidi not
to molest us. That state trick failing to frighten and stop us, he tried another, by saying,
when we departed, he hoped we would leave two men with guns behind, to occupy our present camp,
and so delude the people into the belief that merely a party of their followers, and not the
white men themselves, had left his house, for the purpose of spreading terror in the minds
of the people we might meet, who, not knowing the number of men behind, would naturally conclude
there was a large reserve force ready to release us in case of necessity.

This foxy speech was too transparent to require one moment's reflection. In a country where
men were property, the fate of one or two left behind was obvious; and had we doubted that
his object was to get possession of them, his next words would have sufficiently revealed it.
He said, "As you gave men to Mtesa, why would you refuse them to me?" but was checkmated on
being told, "Should any of those men who deserted us in this country ever reach their homes,
they will all be hung for breaking their allegiance or oath." "Well," says the king, "I have
acceded to everything you have to say; and the day after to-morrow, when I shall have had time
to collect men to go with you, and selected the two princes you have promised to educate, we
will meet again and say good-bye; but you must give me a gun and some more medicine, as well
as the powder and ball you promised after reaching the vessels." This was all acquiesced in,
and we wished to take his portrait, but he would not have it done on any consideration. The
Kamraviona and Kidgwiga followed us home, and told Bombay the king did not wish us to leave
till next moon, and then he would like us to fight his brothers on the way. This message, sent
in such an underhand manner after the meeting, Bombay failed to deliver, telling them he should
be afraid to do so.

6th.--The Kamraviona was sent to us with four loads of fish and a request for ammunition, notwithstanding
everything asked for yesterday had been refused until we reached the vessels. "Confound Kamrasi!"
was the reply; "does he think we came here to trick kings that he doubts our words? We came
to open the road; and, as sure as we wish it, we will send him everything that has been promised.
Why should he doubt our word more than anybody else? We are not accustomed to be treated in
this manner, and must beg he won't insult us any more. Then about fighting his brothers, we
have already given answer that we never fight with black men; and should the king persist in
it, we will never take another thing from his hands. The boys shall not go to England, neither
will any other white men come this way." The Kamraviona made the following answer:--"But there
are two more things the king wishes to know about: he has asked the question before, but forgotten
the answers. Is there any medicine for women or children which will prevent the offspring from
dying shortly after birth?--for it is a common infirmity in this country with some women, that
all their children die before they are able to walk, whilst others never lose a child. The
other matter of inquiry was, What medicine will attach all subjects to their king?--for Kamrasi
wants some of that most particularly." I answered, "Knowledge of good government, attended
with wisdom and justice, is all the medicine we know of; and this his boys can best learn in
England, and instruct him in when they return."

7th.--We went to meet Kamrasi at his Kafu palace to bid good-bye. After all the huckstering
and begging with which he had tormented us, the state he chose to assume on this occasion was
very ludicrous. He sat with an air of the most solemn dignity, upon his throne of skins, regarding
us like mere slaves, and asking what things we intended to send to him. On being told we did
not like being repeatedly reminded of our promises, he came down a little from his dignity,
saying, "And what answer have you about the business on the island?"--meaning the request to
fight his brothers. That, of course, could not be listened to, as it was against the principle
of our country. Grant's rings were then espied, and begged for, but without success. We told
him it was highly improper to beg for everything he saw, and if he persisted in it, no one
would ever dare to come near him again.

Then, to change the subject, we begged K'yengo's men might be allowed to go as far as Gani
with us; but no reply was given, until the question was put again, with a request that the
reason might be told us for his not wishing it, as we saw great benefit would be derived to
Unyoro, as the Wanyamuezi instead of trading merely with Karague and Zanzibar, would bring
their ivory through this country and barter it, thus converting Unyoro into a great commercial
country; when Kamrasi said, "We don't want any more ivory in Unyoro; for the tusks are already
as numerous as grass." Kidgwiga was then appointed to receive all the things we were to send
back from Gani; our departure was fixed for the 9th; and the king walked away as coldly as
he came, whilst we felt as jolly as birds released from a cage.

Floating islands of grass were seen going down the Kafu, reminding us of the stories told at
Kaze by Musa Mzuri, of the violent manner in which, at certain season, the N'yanza was said
to rise and rush with such velocity that islands were uprooted and carried away. In the evening
a pot of pombe was brought, when the man in charge, half-drunk, amused us with frantic charges,
as if he were fighting with his spear; and after settling the supposed enemy, he delighted
in tramping him under foot, spearing him repeatedly through and through, then wiping the blade
of the spear in the grass, and finally polishing it on this tufty head, when, with a grunt
of satisfaction, he shouldered arms and walked away a hero.

8th.--As the king seemed entirely to disregard our comfort on the journey, we made a request
for cows, butter, and coffee, in answer to which we only got ten cows, the other things not
being procurable without delay. Twenty-four men were appointed us to escort us and bring back
our presents from Gani, which were to be--six carbines, with a magazine of ammunition, a large
brass or iron water-pot, a hair-brush, lucifers, a dinner-knife, and any other things procurable
that had never been seen in Unyoro.

Two orphan boys, seized by the king as slaves, were brought for education in England; but as
they were both of the common negro breed, with nothing attractive about them, and such as no
one could love but their mothers, we rejected them, fearing lest no English boys would care
to play with them, and told Kamrasi that his offspring only could play with our children, and
unless I got some princes of that interesting breed, no one would ever undertake to teach children
brought from this country. The king was very much disappointed at this announcement; said they
were his adopted children, and the only ones he could part with, for his own boys were mere
balls of fat, and too small to leave home.

Chapter XIX. The March to Madi

Sail down the Kafu--The Navigable Nile--Fishing and Sporting Population--The Scenery on the
River--An Inhospitable Governor--Karuma Falls--Native Superstitions--Thieveries--Hospitable
Reception at Koki by Chongi.

After giving Kamrasi a sketching-stool, we dropped down the Kafu two miles in a canoe, in order
that the common people might not see us; for the exclusive king would not allow any eyes but
his won to be indulged with the extraordinary sight of white men in Unyoro! The palace side
of the river, however, as we paddled away, was thronged with anxious spectators amongst whom
the most conspicuous was the king's favourite nurse. Dr K'yengo's men were very anxious to
accompany us, even telling the king, if he would allow the road to be opened to their countrymen,
all would hongo, or pay customs-duty to him; but the close, narrow-minded king could not be
persuaded. Bombay here told us Kamrasi at the last moment wished to give me some women and
ivory; and when told we never accepted anything of that sort, wished to give them to my head
servants; but this being contrary to standing orders also, he said he would smuggle them down
to the boats for Bombay in such a manner that I should not find out.

We were not expected to march again, but being anxious myself to see more of the river, before
starting, I obtained leave to go by boat as far as the river was navigable, sending our cattle
by land. To this concession was accompanied a request for a few more gun-caps, and liberty
was given us to seize any pombe which might be found coming on the river in boats, for the
supplies to the palace all come in this manner. We then took boat again, an immense canoe,
and, after going a short distance, emerged from the Kafu, and found ourselves on what at first
appeared a long lake, averaging from two hundred at first to one thousand yards broad before
the day's work was out; but this was the Nile again, navigable in this way from Urondogani.

Both sides were fringed with the huge papyrus rush. The left one was low and swampy, whilst
the right one--in which the Kidi people and Wanyoro occasionally hunt--rose from the water
in a gently sloping bank, covered with trees and beautiful convolvuli, which hung in festoons.
Floating islands, composed of rush, grass, and ferns, were continually in motion, working their
way slowly down the stream, and proving to us that the Nile was in full flood. On one occasion
we saw hippopotami, which our men said came to the surface because we had domestic fowls on
board, supposing them to have an antipathy to that bird. Boats there were, which the sailors
gave chase to; but, as they had no liquor, they were allowed to go their way, and the sailors,
instead, set to lifting baskets and taking fish from the snares which fisherman, who live in
small huts amongst the rushes, had laid for themselves.

After arrival, as we found the boatmen wished to make off, instead of carrying out their king's
orders to take us to the waterfall, we seized all the paddles, and kept their tongues quiet
by giving them a cow to eat. The overland route, by which Kidgwiga and the cattle went, was
not so interesting, by all accounts, as the river one; for they walked the whole way through
marshy ground, and crossed one drain in boats, where some savages struggled to plunder our
men of their goats.

With a great deal of difficulty, and after hours of delay, we managed to get under way with
two boats besides the original one; and, after an hour and a half's paddling in the laziest
manner possible, the men seized two pots of pombe and pulled in to Koki, guided by a king's
messenger, who said this was one of the places appointed by order to pick up recruits for the
force which was to take us to Gani. We found, however, nothing but loss and disappointment--one
calf stolen, and five goats nearly so. Fortunately, the thief who attempted to run off with
the goats was taken by my men in the act, tied with his hands painfully tight behind his back,
and left, with his face painted white, till midnight, when his comrades stole into Bombay's
hut and released him. After all these annoyances, the chief officer of the place offered us
a present of a goat, but was sent to the right-about in scorn. How could he be countenanced
as a friend when the men under him steal from us?

The big boat gave us the slip, floating away and leaving its paddles behind. To supply its
place, we took six small boats, turning my men into sailors, and going as we liked. The river
still continued beautiful; but after paddling three hours we found it bend considerably, and
narrow to two hundred yards, the average depth being from two to three fathoms. At the fourth
hour, imagining our cattle to be far behind, we pulled in, and walked up a well-cultivated
hill to Yaragonjo's, the governor of these parts. The guide, however, on first sighting his
thorn-fenced cluster of huts, regarding it apparently with the awe and deference due to a palace,
shrank from advancing, and merely pointed, till he was forced on, and in the next minute we
found ourselves confronted with the heads of the establishment. The father of the house, surprised
at our unexpected manner of entrance--imagining, probably, we were the king's sorcerers, in
consequence of our hats, sent to fight "the brothers"--without saying a word, quietly beckoned
us to follow him out of the gate by the same way as we came. Preferring, however, to have a
little talk where we were, we remained.

The eldest son, a fine young man considerably above six feet high, with large gashes on his
body received in war during late skirmishes with the refractory brothers, now came in, did
the honours, and, on hearing of the importance of his visitors, directed us to some huts a
little distance off, where we could rest for the night, for there was no accommodation for
such a large party in the palace. The red hill we were now on, with plantain-gardens, fine
huts neatly kept, and dense grasses covering the country, reminded us of our residence in Uganda.
The people seemed of a decidedly sporting order, for they kept hippopotamus-harpoons, attached
to strong ropes with trimmers of pith wood, in their huts; and, outside, trophies of their
toil in the shape of a pile of heads, consisting of those of buffalo and hippopotami. The women,
anything but pretty, wore their mbugu cut into two flounces, fastened with a drawing-string
round the waist; and, in place of stockings, they bound strings of small iron beads, kept bright
and shining, carefully up the leg from the ankle to the bottom of the calf.

Kidgwiga with our cattle arrived in the morning. A bundle of cartridges, stolen from one of
the men's pouches, which we knew could only have been done by some comrade, was discovered
by stopping the rations of flesh. The guilty person, to save detection, threw it on the road,
and allowed some of the natives to pick it up. Strange as it may appear, the only motive for
this petty theft was the hope of being able to sell the cartridges for a trifle at Gani. Yaragonjo
brought us a present of a goat and plantains. He was sorry he sent us back yesterday from his
house; and invited us to change ground to another village close by, where he would make arrangements
for our receiving other boats, as the ones we had in possession must go back. Presuming this
to be a very fair proposition, and thinking we would only have to walk across an elbow of land
where the river bends considerably, we gave him a return-present of beads, and did as we were
bid; but, after moving, it was obvious we had been sold. We had lost our former boats, and
no others were near us; therefore, feeling angry with Yaragonjo, I walked back to his palace,
taking the presented goat with me, as I knew that would touch the savage in the most tender
part; then flaring up with the officer for treating the king's orders with contempt, as well
as his guests, by sending us into the jungles like a pack of thieves, whose riddance from his
presence was obviously his only intent, I gave him his goat again, and said I would have nothing
more to say to him, for I should look to the king for redress.

This frightened him to such an extent that he immediately produced another and finer goat,
which he begged me to accept, promising to convey all my traps to the next governor's, where
there would be no doubt about our getting boats. He did not intend to deceive us, but committed
an error in not informing us he had no boats of his own; and, to show his earnestness, accompanied
us to the camp. Here I found the missing calf taken at Koki, and a large deputation of natives
awaiting our arrival. They told me that the Koki governor had taken such fright in consequence
of my anger when I refused his proffered goat, that he had traced the calf back to Kitwara,
and now wished to take Kidgwiga a prisoner to Kamrasi's for having seized five cows of his,
and a woman from another governor. As yet I had not heard of this piece of rough justice; and,
on inquiry, found out that he had been compelled to do as he had done, because those officers,
on finding we had gone ahead in boats would not produce the complement of men required of them
by the king's orders for escorting us to Gani; but now they sent the men, the woman and cows
could not be returned, as they had been sent overland by the ordinary route to the ferry on
the Nile.

Of course we would not listen to this reference for justice with Kamrasi, as the woman and
cows were still all alive; commended Kidgwiga for carrying out his orders so well, and told
the officers they had merited their punishment--as how could the affairs of government be carried
on, when subordinate officers refused immediate compliance? The submkungu of Northern Gueni,
Kasoro, now proffered a goat and plantains, and everything was settled for the day.

With a full complement of porters, travelling six miles through cultivation and jungle, we
reached the headquarters of governor Kaeru, where all the porters threw down their loads and
bolted, though we were still two miles from the post. We inquired for the boats at once, but
were told they were some distance off, and we must wait here for the night. Four pots of pombe
were sent us, and Kaeru thought we would be satisfied and conform. We suspected, however, that
there was some trick at the bottom of all; so, refusing the liquor, we said, with proper emphasis,
"Unless we are forwarded to the boats at once, and get them on the following morning, we cannot
think of receiving presents from any one." This served our purpose, for a fresh set of porters
was found like magic, and traps, pombe, and all together, were forwarded to the journey's end--a
snug batch of huts imbedded in large plantain cultivation surrounded by jungle, and obviously
near the river, as numerous huge harpoons, intended for striking hippopotami, were suspended
from the roof. Kaeru here presented us with a goat, and promised the boats in the morning.

After fighting for the boats, we still had to wait the day for Kidgwiga and his men, who said
it was all very well our pushing ahead, indifferent as to whether men were enlisted or not,
but he had to prepare for the future also, as he could never recross the Kidi wilderness by
himself; he must have a sufficient number of men to form his escort, and these were now grinding
corn for the journey. Numerous visitors called on us here, and consequently our picture-books
were in great request. We gave Kaeru some beads.

After walking two miles to the boats, we entered the district of Chopi, subject to Unyoro,
and went down the river, keeping the Kikunguru cone in view. On arrival at camp, Viarwanjo,
the officer of the district, a very smart fellow, arrived with a large escort of spearmen,
presented pombe, ordered fowls to be seized for us, and promised one boat in the morning, for
he had no more disposable, and even that one he felt anxious about lest the men on ahead should
seize it.

I gave Viarwanjo some beads, and dropped down the river in his only wretched little canoe--he,
with Grant and the traps, going overland. I caught a fever, and so spent the night.

Here I halted to please Magamba, the governor, who is a relation of the king. He called in
great state, presented a cow and pombe, was much pleased with the picture-books, and wished
to feast his eyes on all the wonders in the hut. He was very communicative, also, as far as
his limited knowledge permitted. He said the people are only a sub-tribe of the Madi; and the
reason why the right bank of the river is preferred to the left for travelling is, that Rionga,
who lives down the river, is always on the look-out for Kamrasi's allies, with a view to kill
them. Magamba also, on being questioned, told us about Ururi, a province of Unyoro, under the
jurisdiction of Kimerziri, a noted governor, who covers his children with bead ornaments, and
throws them into the N'yanza, to prove their identity as his own true offspring; for should
they sink, it stands to reason some other person must be their father; but should they float,
then he recovers them. One of Kamrasi's cousins, Kaoroti, with his chief officer, called on
us, presenting five fowls as an honorarium. He had little to say, but begged for medicine,
and when given some in a liquid state, said his sub would like some also; then Kidgwiga's wife,
who was left behind, must have some; and as pills were given for her, the two men must have
dry medicine too, to take home with them. Severe drain as this was on the medicine-chest, Magamba
and his wife must have both wet and dry; and even others put in a claim, but were told they
were too healthy to require physicking. Many Kidi men, dressed as in the woodcut, crossed the
river to visit Kamrasi; they could not, however, pass us without satisfying their curiosity
with a look. Usually these men despise clothes, and never deign to put any covering on except
out of respect, when visiting Kamrasi. Their "sou'-wester"-shaped wigs are made of other men's
hair, as the negro hair will not grow long enough. A message came from Ukero, the governor-general
of Chopi, to request we would not go down the river in boats to-morrow, lest the Chopi ferrymen
at the falls should take fright at our strange appearance, paddle precipitately across the
river, hide their boats, and be seen no more.

We started, leaving all the traps and men to follow, and made this place in a stride, as a
whisper warned me that Kamrasi's officers, who are as thick as thieves about here, had made
up their minds to keep us each one day at his abode, and show us "hospitality." Such was the
case, for they all tried their powers of persuasion, which failing, they took the alternative
of making my men all drunk, and sending to camp sundry pots of pombe. The ground on the line
of march was highly cultivated, and intersected by a deep ravine of running water, whose sundry
branches made the surface very irregular. The sand-paper tree, whose leaves resemble a cat's
tongue in roughness, and which is used in Uganda for polishing their clubs and spear-handles,
was conspicuous; but at the end of the journey only was there anything of much interest to
be seen. There suddenly, in a deep ravine one hundred yards below us, the formerly placid river,
up which vessels of moderate size might steam two or three abreast, was now changed into a
turbulent torrent. Beyond lay the land of Kidi, a forest of mimosa trees, rising gently away
from the water in soft clouds of green. This, the governor of the place, Kija, described as
a sporting-field, where elephants, hippopotami, and buffalo are hunted by the occupants of
both sides of the river. The elephant is killed with a new kind of spear, with a double-edged
blade a yard long, and a handle which, weighted in any way most easy, is pear-shaped.

With these instruments in their hands, some men climb into trees and wait for the herd to pass,
whilst others drive them under. The hippopotami, however, are not hunted, but snared with lunda,
the common tripping-trap with spike-drop, which is placed in the runs of this animal, described
by every South African traveller, and generally known as far as the Hametic language is spread.
The Karuma Falls, if such they may be called, are a mere sluice or rush of water between high
syenitic stones, falling in a long slope down a ten-feet drop. There are others of minor importance,
and one within ear-sound, down the river, said to be very grand.

The name given to the Karuma Falls arose from the absurd belief that Karuma, the agent or familiar
of a certain great spirit, placed the stones that break the waters in the river, and, for so
doing, was applauded by his master, who, to reward his services by an appropriate distinction,
allowed the stones to be called Karuma. Near this is a tree which contains a spirit whose attributes
for gratifying the powers and pleasures of either men or women who summon its influence in
the form appropriate to each, appear to be almost identical with that of Mahadeo's Ligna in India.

20th.--We halted for the men to collect and lay in a store of food for the passage of the Kidi
wilderness. Presents of fish, caught in baskets, were sent us by Kija. They were not bad eating,
though all ground animals of the lowest order. At the Grand Falls below this, Kidgwiga informs
us, the king had the heads of one hundred men, prisoners taken in war against Rionga, cut off
and thrown into the river.

21st and 22d.--The governor, who would not let us go until we saw him, called on the 22d with
a large retinue, attended by a harpist, and bringing a present of one cow, two loads flour,
and three pots of pombe. He expected a chair to sit upon, and got a box, as at home he has
a throne only a little inferior to Kamrasi's. He was very generous to Bombay on his former
journey to Gani; and then said he thought the white men were all flocking this way to retake
their lost country; for tradition recorded that the Wahuma were once half-black and half-white,
with half the hair straight and the other half curly; and how was this to be accounted for,
unless the country formerly belonged to white men with straight hair, but was subsequently
taken by black men? We relieved his apprehensions by telling him his ancestors were formerly
all white, with straight hair, and lived in a country beyond the salt sea, till they crossed
that sea, took possession of Abyssinia, and are now generally known by the name of Hubshies
and Gallas; but neither of these names was known to him.

On the east, beyond Kidi, he only knew of one clan of Wahuma, a people who subsist entirely
on meat and milk. The sportsmen of this country, like the Wanyamuezi, plant a convolvulus of
extraordinary size by the side of their huts, and pile the jaw-bones and horns of their spoils
before, as a means of bringing good-luck. This same flower, held in the hand when a man is
searching for anything that he has lost, will certainly bring him to the missing treasure.
In the evening, Kidgwiga, at the head of his brave army, made one of their theatrical charges
on "Bana" with spear and shield, swearing they would never desert him on the march, but would
die to a man if it were necessary; and if they deserted him, then might they be deprived of
their heads, or of other personal possessions not much less valuable.

Just as we were ready for crossing the river, a line of Kidi men was descried filing through
the jungle on the opposite side, making their way for a new-moon visit to Rionga, who occasionally
leads them into battle against Ukero. The last time they fought, two men only were killed on
Kamrasi's side, whilst nine fell on Rionga's. There was little done besides crossing, for the
last cow was brought across as sunset--the ferrying-toll for the whole being one cow, besides
a present of beads to the head officer.

After a soaking night, we were kept waiting till noon for the forty porters ordered by Kamrasi,
to carry our property to the vessels wherever they might be. Only twenty-five men arrived,
notwithstanding the wife and one slave belonging to a local officer, who would not supply the
men required of him, were seized and confiscated by Ukero, of Wire. We now mustered twenty
Wanguana, twenty-five country porters, and thirty-one of Kidgwiga's "children"--making a total,
with ourselves, of seventy-eight souls. By a late arrival a message came from Kamrasi. Its
import was, that we must defer the march, as it was reported the refractory brother Rionga
harboured designs of molesting us on the way, and therefore the king conceived it prudent to
clear the road by first fighting him. Without heeding this cunning advice, we made a short
march across swamps, and through thick jungle and long grasses, which proved anything but pleasant--wet
and labouring hard all the way.

It was a rainy day, and we had still to toil on fighting with the grasses. We marched up the
wet margin of swamp all day, crossing the water at a fork near the end. The same jungle prevails
on all sides, excluding all view; and the only signs of man's existence in these wilds lay
in the meagre path, which is often lost, and an occasional hut or two, the temporary residence
of the sporting Kidi people.

After toiling five miles through the same terrible grasses, and crossing swamp after swamp,
we were at last rewarded by a striking view. The jungles had thinned; we found ourselves unexpectedly
standing on the edge of a plateau, on the west of which, for distance interminable, lay apparently
a low flat country of grass, yellowed by the sun, with a few trees or shrubs only thinly scattered
over the surface; while, from fifteen to twenty miles in the rear, bearing south by west, stood
conspicuously the hill of Kisuga, said to be situated in Chopi, not far from the refractory
brothers. But this view was only for the moment; again we dived into the grasses and forced
our way along. Presently elephants were seen, also buffalo; and the guide, to make the journey
propitious, plucked a twig, denuded it of its leaves and branches, waved it like a wand up
the line of march, muttered some unintelligible words to himself, broke it in twain, and threw
the separated bits on either side of the path.

Immediately after starting, the guide ran up on an ant-hill and pointed out to us all the glories
of the country round. In our rear we could see back upon Wire and the hill of Kisuga; to the
west were the same low plains of grass; east and by south, the jungles of Kidi; and to the
northward, over downs of grass, the tops of some hills, which marked the neighbouring village
of Koki, which we were making for. Its appearance in the distance warned us that we were closing
on the habitations of men, and we were told that Bombay had drunk pombe there. Then plunging
through grass again over our heads, and crossing constant swamps, we arrived at a stream which
drains all these lands to westward, and rested a while that the men might bathe, and also that
they might set fire to the grass as a telegraph to the settlement of Koko, to apprise the people
of our advance, and be ready with their pombe ere our arrival. Shortly after, towards the close
of the day's work, as a solitary buffalo was seen grazing by a brook, I put a bullet through
him, and allowed the savages the pleasure of despatching him in their own wild fashion with spears.

It was a sight quite worthy of a little delay. No sooner was it observed that the huge beast
could not retire, than, with springing bounds, the men, all spear in hand, as if advancing
on an enemy, went top speed at him, over rise and fall alike, till, as they neared the maddened
bull, he instinctively advanced to meet his assailants with the best charge his exhausted body
could muster up. Wind, however, failed him soon; he knew his disadvantage, and tried to hide
by plunging in the water,--the worst policy he could have pursued, for the men from the bank
above him soon covered him with bristling spears, and gained their victory. Now, what was to
be done with this huge carcass? No one could be induced to leave it. A cow was ordered as a
bribe on reaching camp; but no, the buffalo was bigger than a cow, and must be quartered on
the spot; so, to gain our object, we went ahead and left the rear men to follow, thus saving
a cow in rations, for we required to slaughter one every day.

By dint of hard perseverance we accomplished ten miles over the same downs of tall grass with
occasional swamps. We saw a herd of hartebeest, and reached at night a place within easy run
of Koki in Gani.

The weather had now become fine. At length we reached the habitations of men--a collection
of conical huts on the ridge of a small chain of granitic hills lying north-west. The guides,
following the usages of the country, instead of allowing us to mount the hill and look out
for accommodation at once, desired us to halt, and sent on a messenger to inform Chongi, the
governor-general, that we were visitors from Kamrasi, who desired he would take care of us
and forward us to our brothers. This Mercury brought forth a hearty welcome; for Chongi had
been appointed governor by Kamrasi of this district, which appears to have been the extreme
northern limit of the originally vast kingdom of Kittara. All the elite of the place, covered
with war-paints, and dressed, so far as their nakedness was covered at all, like clowns in
a fair, charging down the hill full tilt with their spears, and, after performing their customary
evolutions, mingled with our men, and invited us up the hill, where we no sooner arrived than
Chongi, a very old man, attended by his familiar, advanced to receive us--one holding a white
hen, the other a small gourd of pombe and a little twig.

Chongi gave us all a friendly harangue by way of greeting; and taking the fowl by one leg,
swayed it to and fro close to the ground in front of his assembled visitors. After this ceremony
had been also repeated by the familiar, Chongi then took the gourd and twig, and sprinkled
the contents all over us; retired to the Uganga, or magic house--a very diminutive hut--sprinkled
pombe over it; and, finally, spreading a cow-skin under a tree, bade us sit, and gave us a
jorum of pombe, making many apologies that he could not show us more hospitality, as famine
had reduced his stores. What politeness in the midst of such barbarism!!! Nowhere had we seen
such naked creatures, whose sole dress consisted of bead, iron, or brass ornaments, with some
feathers or cowrie-beads on the head. Even the women contented themselves with a few fibres
hung like tails before and behind. Some of our men who had seen the Watuta in Utambara, declared
these savages to resemble them in every particular, save one small specialty in their costume,
alluded to in the description of the Zulu Kafir's dress. The hair of the men was dressed in
the same fantastic fashion, and the women placed half-gourds over the baby as it rode on its
mother's back. They also, like the Kidi people, whom they much fear, carry diminutive stools
to sit upon wherever they go.

Their habitat extends from this to the Asua river, whilst the Madi occupy all the country west
of this meridian to the Nile, which is far beyond sight. The villages are composed of little
conical huts of grass, on a framework of bamboo raised above low mud walls. There are no sultans
here of any consequence, each village appointing its own chief. The granitic hills, like those
of Unyamuezi, are extremely pretty, and clad with trees, contrasting strangely with the grassy
downs of indefinite extend around, which give the place, when compared with the people, the
appearance of a paradise within the infernal regions. From the site of Koki we saw the hills
behind which, according to Bombay, Petherick was situated with his vessels; and we also saw
a nearer hill, behind which his advanced post of elephant-hunters were waiting our arrival.

I tried to ascertain if there were any prefixes, as in the South African dialects, by which
one might determine the difference between the people and the country; but I was assured that
both here and in the adjacent countries these people saw Chopi, Kidi, Gani, Madi, Bari, alike
for person and place, though Jo in their language is the equivalent for Wa in South Africa,
and Dano takes the place of Mtu. All the words and system of language were wholly changed--as
for example, Poko poko wingi bongo, means "we do not understand"; Mazi, "fire"; Pi, "water";
Pe, "there is none"; Bugra, "cow." In sound, the language of these people resembles that of
the Tibet Tartars. Chongi considers himself the greatest man in the country, and of noble descent,
his great-grandfather having been a Mhuma, born at Ururi, in Unyoro, and appointed by the then
reigning king to rule over this country, and keep the Kidi people in check.

30th.--We halted at the earnest solicitation of Chongi, as well as of the Chopi porters, who
said they required a day to lay in grain, as the Wichwezi, or mendicant sorcerers--for so they
thought fit to designate Petherick's elephant-hunters--had eaten up the country all about them,
and those who went before with Bombay to visit their camp could get no food.

1st.--We halted again at the request of all parties, and much to the delight of old Chongi,
who supplied us with abundant pombe, promised a cow, that we should not be put to any extra
expense by stopping, and said that without fail he would furnish us with guides who knew a
short cut across country, by which we might reach the Wichwesi camp in one march, instead of
going by the circuitous route which Bombay formerly took. The cow, however, never came, as
the old man did not intend to give his own, and his officers refused to obey his orders in
giving one of theirs.

We left Koki with difficulty, in consequence of the Chopi porters refusing to carry any loads,
leaving the burden of lifting them on the country people, as they said, "We have endured all
the trouble and hardships of bringing these visitors through the wilderness; and now, as they
have visited you, it is your place to help them on." The consequence was, we had to engage
fresh porters at every village, each in turn saying he had done all the work which with justice
fell to his lot, till at last we arrived at the borders of a jungle, where the men last engaged,
feeling tired of their work, pleaded ignorance of the direct road, and turned off to the longer
one, where villages and men were in abundance, thus upsetting all our plans, and doubling the
actual distance.

To pass the night half-way was now imperative, as we had been the whole day travelling without
making good much ground. From the Gani people we had, without any visible change, mingled with
the Madi people, who dress in the same naked fashion as their neighbours, and use bows and
arrows. Their villages were all surrounded with bomas (fences), and the country in its general
aspect resembled that of Northern Unyamuezi. At one place, the good-natured simple people,
as soon as we reached their village, spread a skin, deposited a stool upon it, and placed in
front two pots of pombe. At the village where we put up, however, the women and children of
the head man at first all ran away, and the head man himself was very shy of us, thinking we
were some unearthly creatures. He became more reconciled to us, however, when he perceived
we fed like rational beings; and, calling his family in by midnight, presented us with pombe,
and made many apologies for having allowed us to dine without a drop of his beer, for he was
very glad to see us.

Chapter XX. Madi

Junction of the Two Hemispheres--The First Contact with Persons Acquainted with European Habits--Interruptions
and Plots--The Mysterious Mahamed--Native Revelries--The Plundering and Tyranny of the Turks--The
Rascalities of the Ivory Trade--Feeling for the Nile--Taken to see a Mark left by a European--Buffalo,
Eland, and Rhinoceros Stalking--Meet Baker--Petherick's Arrival at Gondokoro.

After receiving more pombe from the chief, and, strange to say, hot water to wash with--for
he did not know how else to show hospitality better--we started again in the same straggling
manner as yesterday. In two hours we reached the palace of Piejoko, a chief of some pretensions,
and were summoned to stop and drink pombe. In my haste to meet Petherick's expedition, I would
listen to nothing, but pushed rapidly on, despite all entreaties to stop, both from the chief
and from my porters, who, I saw clearly, wished to do me out of another day.

Half of my men, however, did stop there, but with the other half Grant and I went on; and,
as the sun was setting, we came in sight of what we thought was Petherick's outpost, N. lat.
3° 10' 33", and E. long. 21° 50' 45". My men, as happy as we were ourselves, now begged I would
allow them to fire their guns, and prepare the Turks for our reception. Crack, bang, went their
carbines, and in another instant crack, bang, was heard from the northerners' camp, when, like
a swarms of bees, every height and other conspicuous place was covered with men. Our hearts
leapt with an excitement of joy only known to those who have escaped from long-continued banishment
among barbarians, once more to meet with civilised people, and join old friends. Every minute
increased this excitement. I halted and allowed them to draw near. Rather staggered at this
unexpected manifestation of affection, which was like a conjunction of the two hemispheres,
I gave him a squeeze in return for his hug, but raised my head above the reach of his lips,
and asked who was his master? "Petrik," was the reply. "And where is Petherick now?" "Oh, he
is coming." "How is it you have not got English colours, then?" "The colours are Debono's."
"Who is Debono?" "The same as Petrik; but come along into my camp, and let us talk it out there;"
saying which, Mahamed ordered his regiment (a ragamuffin mixture of Nubians, Egyptians, and
slaves of all sorts, about two hundred in number) to rightabout, and we were guided by him,
whilst his men kept up an incessant drumming and fifing, presenting arms and firing, until
we reached his huts, situated in a village kept exactly in the same order as that of the natives.

A large shed was cleared for Grant and myself, and all my men were ordered to disperse, and
chum in ones and twos with Mahamed's men; for Mahamed said, now we had come there, his work
was finished. "If that is the case," I said, "tell us your orders; there must be some letters."
He said, "No, I have no letters or written orders; though I have directions to take you to
Gondokoro as soon as you come. I am Debono's Vakil, and am glad you are come, for we are all
tired of waiting for you. Our business has been to collect ivory whilst waiting for you." I
said, "How is it Petherick has not come here to meet me? is he married?" "Yes, he is married;
and both he and his wife ride fore-and-aft on one animal at Khartum." "Well, then, where is
the tree you told Bombay you would point out to us with Petherick's name on it?" "Oh, that
is on the way to Gondokoro. It was not Petherick who wrote, but some one else, who told me
to look out for your coming this way. We don't know his name, but he said if we pointed it
out to you, you would know at once."

4th.--After spending the night as Mahamed's guest, I strolled round the place to see what it
was like, and found the Turks were all married to the women of the country, whom they had dressed
in clothes and beads. Their children were many, with a prospect of more. Temporary marriages,
however, were more common than others--as, in addition to their slaves, they hired the daughters
of the villagers, who remained with them whilst they were trading here, but went back to their
parents when they marched to Gondokoro. They had also many hundreds of cattle, which it was
said they had plundered from the natives, and now used for food, or to exchange for ivory,
or other purposes. The scenery and situation were perfect for health and beauty. The settlement
lay at the foot of small, well-wooded granitic hills, even prettier than the outcrops of Unyamuezi,
and was intersected by clear streams.

At noon, all the rear troops arrived with Bombay and Piejoko in person. This good creature
had treated Bombay very handsomely on his former journey. He said he felt greatly disappointed
at my pushing past him yesterday, as he wished to give me a cow, but still hoped I would go
over and make friends with him. I gave him some beads and off he walked. Old Chongi's "children,"
who had escorted us all the way from Kamrasi's, then took some beads and cast-off clothes for
themselves and their father, and left us in good-humour.

This reduced the expedition establishment to my men and Kidgwiga's. With these, now, as there
was no letter from Petherick, I ordered a march for the next morning, but at once met with
opposition. Mahamed told me that there were no vessels at Gondokoro; we must wait two months,
by which time he expected they would arrive there, and some one would come to meet him with
beads. I said in answer, that Petherick had promised to have boats there all the year round,
so I would not wait. "Then," said Mahamed, "we cannot go with you, for there is a famine at
this season at Gondokoro." I said, "Never mind; do you give me an interpreter, and I will go
as I am." "No," said Mahamed, "that will not do, as the Bari people are so savage, you could
not get through them with so small a force; besides which, just now there is a stream which
cannot be crossed for a month or more."

Unable to stand Mahamed's shifting devices with equanimity any longer, I accused him of trying
to trick me in the same way as all the common savage chiefs had done wherever I went, because
they wished me to stop for their own satisfaction, quite disregarding my wishes and interest;
so I said I would not stop there any longer I would raft over the river, and find my way through
the Bari, as I had through the rest of the African savages. We talked and talked, but could
make nothing of it. I maintained that if he was commissioned to help me, he at least could
not refuse to give me a guide and interpreter; when, if I failed in the direct route, I would
try another, but go I must, as I could not hold out any longer, being short of beads and cows.
I had just enough, but none to spare. He told me not to think of such a thing, as he would
give me all that was needful, both for myself and my men; but if I would have patience, he
would collect all his officers, and the next morning would see what their opinions were on
the subject.

5th.--I found that every one of Mahamed's men was against our going to Gondokoro. They told
me, in fact, with one voice, that it was quite impossible; but they said, if I liked they would
furnish me guides to escort me on ten marches to a depot at the further end of the Madi country,
and if I chose to wait there until they could collect all their ivory tusks together and join
us, we would be a united party too formidable to be resisted by the Bari people. This offer
of immediate guides I of course accepted at once, as to keep on the move was my only desire
at that time; for my men were all drunk, and Kidgwiga's were deserting. Once more on the way,
I did not despair of reaching Gondokoro by myself. In the best good-humour now, I showed Mahamed
our picture-books: and as he said he always drilled his two hundred men every Friday, I said
I would, if he liked, command them myself. This being agreed to, all the men turned out in
their best, and, to my surprise, they not only knew the Turkish words of command, but manoeuvred
with some show of good training; though, as might have been expected with men of this ragamuffin
stamp, all the privates gave orders as well as their captains.

When the review was over, I complimented Mahamed on the efficiency of his corps, and, retiring
to my hut, as I thought I had him now in a good-humour, again discussed our plans for going
ahead the next day. Scarcely able to look me in the face, the humbugging scoundrel said he
could not think of allowing me to go on without him, for if any accident happened he would
be blamed for it. At the same time, he could not move for a few days, as he expected a party
of men to arrive about the next new moon with ivory. My hurry he thought was uncalled for;
for, as I had spent so many days with Kamrasi, why could I not be content to do so with him?

I was provoked beyond measure with this, as it upset all my plans. Kidgwiga's men were deserting,
and I feared I should not be able to keep my promise to Kamrasi of sending him another white
visitor, who would perhaps do what I had left undone, when I did not follow up the connection
of the Little Luta Nzige with the Nile. We battled away again, and then Mahamed said there
was not one man in his camp who would go with me until their crops were cut and taken in; for
whilst residing here they grew grain for their support. We battled again, and Mahamed at last,
out of patience himself, said, "Just look here, what a fix I am in," showing me a hut full
of ivory. "Who," he said, "is to carry all this until the natives have got in their crops?"
This, I said, so far as I was concerned, was all nonsense. I merely had asked him for a guide
and interpreter, for go I must. In a huff he then absconded; and my men--those of them who
were not too drunk--came and said to me, "For Godsake let us stop here. Mahamed says the road
is too dangerous for us to go alone; he has promised to carry all our loads for us if we stop;
and all Kamrasi's men are running away, because they are afraid to go on."

6th.--Next morning I called Kidgwiga, and begged him to procure two men as guides and interpreters.
He said he could not find any. I then went at Mahamed again, who first said he would give me
the two men I wanted, then went off, and sent word to say he would not be visible for three
days. This was too much for my patience, so I ordered all my things to be tied up in marching
order, and gave out that I should leave and find out the way myself the following morning.
Like an evil spirit stirred up, my preparations for going no sooner were heard of than Mahamed
appeared again, and after a long and sharp contest in words, he promised us guides if I would
consent to write him a note, testifying that my going was against his expressed desire.

This was done; but the next morning (7th), after our things were put out for the march, all
Kidgwiga's men bolted, and no guides would take service with us. It was now obvious that, even
supposing I succeeded in taking Kidgwiga to Gondokoro, he would not have a sufficient escort
to come back with, unless, indeed, it happened that Englishmen might be there who might wish
to carry out my investigations by penetrating to the Little Luta Nzige, and to pay a visit
to Kamrasi. I therefore called Kidgwiga, and after explaining these circumstances, advised
him to go back to Kamrasi. He was loth to leave, he said, until his commission was fully performed;
but as I thought it advisable, he would consent. I then gave him a double gun and ammunition,
as well as some very rich beads which I obtained from Mahamed's stores, to take back to Kamrasi,
with orders to say that, as soon as I reached Gondokoro or Khartum, I would send another white
man to him--not by the way I had come through Kidi, but by the left bank of the Nile: to which
Kidgwiga replied, "That will do famously, for Kamrasi will change his residence soon, and come
on the Nile this side of Rionga's palace, in order that he may cut in between his brother and
the Turks' guns."

After this, I gave a lot of rich beads to Kidgwiga for himself, and a lot also for the senior
officers at the Chopi and Kamrasi's palaces, and sent the whole set off as happy as birds.
When these men were gone, I tried to get up an elephant-shooting excursion due west of this,
with a view to see where the Nile was, for I would not believe it was very far off, although
no one as yet, since I left Chopi, either would or could tell me where the stream had gone to.

8th. Mahamed professed to be delighted I had made up my mind to such a scheme. He called the
heads of the villages to give me all the information I sought for, and went with me to the
top of a high rock, from which we could see the hills I first viewed at Chopi, sweeping round
from south by east to north, which demarked the line of the Asua river. The Nile at that moment
was, I believed, not very far off; yet, do or say what I would, everybody said it was fifteen
marches off, and could not be visited under a month. [25] It would be necessary for me to take
thirty-six of Mahamed's men, besides all my own, to go there, which, he said, I was welcome
to, but I should have to pay them for their services. This was a damper at once.

I knew in my mind all these reports were false, but, rather than be out of the way when the
time came for marching, I agreed to wait patiently, write the history of the Wahuma, and make
collections, till Mahamed was ready, trusting that I might find some one at Gondokoro who would
finish what I had left undone; or else, after arriving there, I might go up the Nile in boats
and see for myself. The same evening I was attracted by the sound of drums to a neighbouring
village, where, by the moonlight, I found the natives were dancing. A more indecent or savage
spectacle I never witnessed. The whole place was alive with naked humanity in a state of constant
motion. Drawing near, I found that a number of drums were beaten by men in the centre. Next
to them was a deep ring of women, half of whom carried their babies; and outside these again
was a still deeper circle of men, some blowing horns, but most holding their spears erect.
To the sound of the music both these rings of the opposite sexes kept jumping and sidling round
and round the drummers, making the most grotesque and obscene motions to one another.

9th to 14th.--Nothing of material consequence happened until the 14th, when eighty of Rionga's
men brought in two slaves and thirty tusks of ivory, as a present to Mahamed. Of course, I
knew this was a bribe to induce Mahamed to fight with Rionga against Kamrasi; but, counting
that no affair of mine, I tried to induce these men to give me some geographical information
of the countries they had just left. Not one of them would come near me, for they knew I was
friends with Kamrasi; and Mahamed's men, when they saw mine attempting to converse with them,
abused them for "prying into other men's concerns." "These men," they said, "are our friends,
and not yours; if we choose to give them presents of cloth and beads, and they give us a return
in ivory, what is that to you?" Mysterious Mahamed next came to me, and begged for a blanket,
as he said he was going off for a few days to a depot where he had some ivory; and he also
wanted to borrow a musket, as one of his had been burnt.

My suspicions and even apprehensions, were now greatly excited. I began to think he had prevailed
on me to stop here, that I might hold the place whilst he went to fight Kamrasi with Rionga's
men; so I begged him to listen to my advice, and not attempt to cross the Nile, "else," I said,
"all his guns would be taken from him, and his passage back cut off." At once he saw the drift
of my thought, and said he was not going towards the Nile, but on the contrary, he was going
with Rionga's men in the opposite direction, to a place called Paira. "If that is the case,"
I said, "why do you want a gun?" "Because there are some other matters to settle. I shall not
be long away, and my men will take care of you whilst I am gone." I gave him the blanket after
this, but was too suspicious of his object to lend him a gun.

15th to 20th.--I saw Mahamed march his regiment out of the place, drums and fifes playing,
colours flying, a hundred guns firing, officers riding,--some of them on donkeys and others--yes,
actually on cows! whilst a host of the natives, Rionga's men included, carrying spears and
bows and arrows, looked little like a peaceful caravan of merchants, but very much resembled
a band of marauders. After this I heard they were not going to Rionga himself, but were going
to show Rionga's men the way that they made friends with old Chongi of Koki. In reality, Chongi
had invited Mahamed to fight against an enemy of his, in whose territories immense stores of
ivory were said to be buried, and the people had an endless number of cattle--for they lived
by plunder, and had lifted most of old Chongi's; and this was the service on which the expedition
had set off.

21st to 31st.--I had constantly wondered, ever since I first came here, and saw the brutal
manner in which the Turks treated the natives, that these Madi people could submit to their
"Egyptian taskmasters," and therefore was not surprised now to find them pull down their huts
and march off with the materials to a distant site. Every day this sort of migration continued,
just as you see in the picture; and nothing more important occurred until Christmas-day, when
an armadillo was caught, and I heard from Mahamed's head wife that the Turks had plundered
and burnt down three villages, and in all probability they would return shortly laden with ivory.

1st to 3d.--I now wished to go on with the journey, as I could get no true information out
of the suspicious blackguards who called themselves Turks; but Mahamed postponed it until the
5th, by which time he said he would be able to collect all the men he wanted to carry his ivory.
Rionga's men then departed, and Mahamed showed some signs of getting ready by ordering one
dozen cows to be killed, the flesh of which was to be divided amongst those villagers who would
carry his ivory, and the skins to be cut into thongs for binding the smaller tusks of ivory
together in suitable loads.

4th and 5th.--Another specimen of Turkish barbarity came under my notice, in the head man of
a village bringing a large tusk of ivory to Mahamed, to ransom his daughter with; for she had
been seized as a slave on his last expedition, in common with others who could not run away
fast enough to save themselves from the Turks. Fortunately for both, it was thought necessary
for the Turks to keep on good terms with the father as an influential man; and therefore, on
receiving the tusk, Mahamed gave back the girl, and added a cow to seal their friendship.

6th to 10th.--I saw this land-pirate Mahamed take a blackmail like a negro chief. Some men
who had fled from their village when Mahamed's plundering party passed by them the other day,
surprised that he did not stop to sack their homes, now brought ten large tusks of ivory to
him to express the gratitude they said they felt for his not having molested them. Mahamed,
on finding how easy it was to get taxes in this fashion, instead of thanking them, assumed
the air of the great potentate, whose clemency was abused, and told the poor creatures that,
though they had done well in seeking his friendship, they had not sufficiently considered his
dignity, else they would have brought double that number of tusks, for it was impossible he
could be satisfied at so low a price. "What," said these poor creatures, "can we do then? for
this is all we have got." "Oh," says Mahamed, "if it is all you have got now in store, I will
take these few for the present; but when I return from Gondokoro, I expect you will bring me
just as many more. Good-bye, and look out for yourselves."

Tired beyond all measure with Mahamed's procrastination, as I could not get him to start, I
now started myself, much to his disgust, and went ahead again, leaving word that I would wait
for him at the next place, provided he did not delay more than one day. The march led us over
long rolling downs of grass, where we saw a good many antelopes feeding; and after going ten
miles, we came, among other villages, to one named Panyoro, in which we found it convenient
to put up. At first all the villagers, thinking us Turks, bolted away with their cattle and
what stores they could carry; but, after finding out who we were, they returned again, and
gave us a good reception, helping us to rig up a shed with grass, and bringing a cow and some
milk for our dinner.

12th.--To-day I went out shooting, but though I saw and fired at a rhinoceros, as well as many
varieties of antelopes, I did not succeed in killing one head. All my men were surprised as
well as myself; and the villagers who were escorting me in the hope of getting flesh, were
so annoyed at their disappointment, they offered to cut my fore-finger with a spear and spit
on it for good-luck. Joining in their talk, I told them the powder must be crooked; but, on
inspecting my rifle closer, I found that the sights had been knocked on one side a little,
and this created a general laugh at all in turn. Going home from the shooting, I found all
the villagers bolting again with their cattle and stores, and, on looking towards Faloro, saw
a party of Turks coming.

As well as I could I reassured the villagers, and brought them back again, when they said to
me, "Oh, what have you done? We were so happy yesterday when we found out who you were, but
now we see you have brought those men, all our hearts have sunk again; for they beat us, they
make us carry their loads, and they rob us in such a manner, we know not what to do." I told
them I would protect them if they would keep quiet; and, when the Turks came, I told them what
I had said to the head man. They were the vanguard of Mahamed's party, and said they had orders
to march on as far as Apuddo with me, where we must all stop for Mahamed, who, as well as he
could, was collecting men. There was a certain tree near Apuddo which was marked by an Englishman
two years ago, and this, Mahamed thought, would keep us amused.

The next march brought us to Paira, a collection of villages within sight of the Nile. It was
truly ridiculous; here had we been at Faloro so long, and yet could not make out what had become
of the Nile. In appearance it was a noble stream, flowing on a flat bed from west to east,
and immediately beyond it were the Jbl (hills) Kuku, rising up to a height of 2000 feet above
the river. Still we could not make out all, until the following day, when we made a march parallel
to the Nile, and arrived at Jaifi.

This was a collection of huts close to a deep nullah which drains The central portions of Eastern
Madi. At this place the Turks killed a crocodile and ate him on the spot, much to the amusement
of my men, who immediately shook their heads, laughingly, and said, "Ewa, Allah! are these
men, then, Mussulmans? Savages in our country don't much like a crocodile."

After crossing two nullahs, we reached Apuddo, and at once, I went to see the tree said to
have been cut by an Englishman some time before. There, sure enough, was a mark, something
like the letters M. I., on its bark, but not distinct enough to be ascertained, because the
bark had healed up. In describing the individual who had done this, the Turks said he was exactly
like myself, for he had a long beard, and a voice even much resembling mine. He came thus far
with Mahamed from Gondokoro two years ago, and then returned, because he was alarmed at the
accounts the people gave of the countries to the southward, and he did not like the prospect
of having to remain a whole rainy season with Mahamed at Faloro. He knew we were endeavouring
to come this way, and directed Mahamed to point out his name if we did so.

We took up our quarters in the village as usual, but the Turks remained outside, and carried
off all the tops of the villagers' huts to make a camp for themselves. I rebuked them for doing
so, but was mildly told they had no huts of their own. They carried no pots either for cooking
their dinners, and therefore took from the villagers all that they wanted. It was a fixed custom
now, they told us, and there was no use in our trying to struggle against it. If the natives
were wise, they would make enough to sell; but as they would not, they must put up with their
lot; for the "government" cannot be baulked of its ivory. Truly there seemed to be nothing
but misery here; food was so scarce the villagers sought for wild berries and fruits; whilst
the Turks helped themselves out of their half-filled bins--a small reserve store to last up
to the far-distant harvest. Then, to make matters worse, all the village chiefs were at war
with one another.

At night a party of warriors walked round our village, but feared to attack it because we were
inside. Next morning the villagers turned out and killed two of the enemy; but the rest, whilst
retreating, sang out that they would not attempt to fight until "the guns" were gone--after
that, the villagers had better look out for themselves. I now proposed going on if the Apina,
or chief of the village, would give me a guide; but he feared to do so lest I should come to
grief, and Mahamed would then be down upon him. Struggling was useless, for I had no beads
to pay my way with, and my cows were now all finished; so I took the matter quietly, and went
out foraging with the rifle.

18th and 19th.--Antelopes were numerous, but so wild I could not get near them. On bending
round homewards, however, three buffaloes, feeding in the distance, on the top of a roll of
high ground beyond where we stood, were observed by the natives, who had flocked out in the
hopes of getting flesh. To stalk them, I went up wind to near where I expected to find them;
then bidding the natives lie down, I stole along through the grass until at last I saw three
pairs of horns glistening quite close in front of me. Anxious lest they should take sudden
fright, I gently raised myself, wishing to fire, but I was quite puzzled; there was no mistake
about what they were; still, look from as high as I would, I could not see their bodies. The
thought never struck me they were lying down in such open ground in the day-time; so, as I
could not go closer without driving them off, I took a shot with my single rifle at where I
judged the chest of the nearest one ought to be, and then discovered my error. In an instant
all three sprang on their legs and scampered off. I began loading, but before I had half accomplished
my object, those three had mingled with the three previously seen grazing, and all six together
came charging straight at me. I really thought I should now catch a toss, if I were not trampled
to death; but suddenly, as they saw me standing, whether from fear or what else I cannot say,
they changed their ferocious-looking design, swerved round, and galloped off as fast as their
legs could carry them. This was bad luck; but Grant made up for it the next day by killing
a very fine buck nsamma.

20th.--I went again after the herd of six buffaloes, as I thought one was wounded, and after
walking up a long sloping hill for three miles towards the east, I found myself at once in
view of the Nile on one hand, and the long-heard-of Asua river on the other, backed by hills
even higher than the Jbl Kuku. The bed of the Asua seemed very large, but, being far off, was
not very distinct, nor did I care to go and see it them; for at that moment, straight in front
of me, five buffaloes, five giraffes, two eland and sundry other antelopes, were too strong
a temptation.

The place looked like a park, and I began stalking in it, first at the eland, as I wanted to
see if they corresponded with those I shot in Usagara; but the gawky giraffes, always in the
way, gave the alarm, and drove all but two of the buffaloes away. At these two I now went with
my only rifle, leaving the servants and savages behind. They were out in the open grass feeding
composedly, so that I stole up to within forty yards of them, and then, in a small naked patch
of ground, I waited my opportunity, and put a ball behind the shoulder of the larger one. At
the sound of the gun, in an instant both bulls charged, but they pulled up in the same naked
ground as myself, sniffing and tossing their horns, while looking out for their antagonist,
who, as quick as themselves, had thrown himself flat on the ground.

