CHRISTIAN DEVOTEDNESS, or The Consideration of Our Saviour's Precept, "Lay not up for yourselves
treasures upon earth".

By Anthony Norris Groves (1795--1853).

Second Edition,

London, James Nisbet, Berners Street, MDCCCXXIX.

Before this second edition was issued Groves had taken the step which he here had advocated.
The tract is a revelation of the man, and affords an insight into the spirit and the glow which
made his ministry attractive to sincere souls, and effectual. It being long since unobtainable
we give it in full. By it he, being dead, may yet speak, and other hearts be enlarged and enriched,
to the glory of God. It reads:--

PREFACE

In sending a second impression of the following little work into the world after a lapse of
four years from the publication of the former edition, it may be right to state, that my views
on the subject of it, have undergone no change in the way of relinquishment; but on the contrary
the experience of every day in my own history,--every observation I have been able to make
on the history of those with whom I have come into the closest contact, and who have either
received or rejected the view, and in whatever degree, has tended exceedingly to strengthen
the conviction on my mind, of the infinitely deep knowledge of the human heart, and springs
of human actions which these injunctions of our Blessed Lord manifest: and that he means simply
what he says in "Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth," etc. There is an eye-salve
in this doctrine, when received by faith, that wonderfully clears the field of our spiritual
perceptions; therefore, he that can receive it, let him receive it. Many more, certainly, have
been influenced by it, and some to a much greater extent than I had expected; and the clusters
that have adorned their branches seem to be of the true Eschol grapes; however, of these, and
many other things, time will be the manifester, and the Lord the judge.

The principal objections urged, seem to arrange themselves under three heads:--The influence
of which this principle would rob the Church;--the children it would leave without a provision;--and
that it would require those having estates to sell them, and would not be satisfied with the
dedication of the interest or profits arising out of such property. My business, however, is
not with the consequences of the precept, but with the precept itself. Yet still I would say,
there is in this reasoning as deistical a disregard of the Lord's especial government of his
Church and people, as could be expected from an infidel.

I purpose publishing, the Lord sparing me, a few remarks separately, in relation to the first
of these subjects--that of Influence;--the nature of that which is Christian, and its distinction
from that which is worldly, and which operates either upon worldly men, or that worldliness
which still adheres to every one of us. And I shall endeavour to show, that a grain of the
pure gold of Christian influence, which is the exhibition, in truth, of the mind of Christ,
springing from the love of Christ in the soul, is no wise increased in value by being beaten
out into plates as thin as imagination can conceive, and employed to gild the brassy admixture
of earthly influence,--the titles, honours, rank, wealth, learning and secular power of this
world. It looks indeed like a mighty globe of gold; and the eyes of the inexperienced may be
caught by it; but the least scratch proves its brassy character. If this simple principle had
been perceived, how differently would many public religious bodies have been constituted for
the purpose of extending the influence of Christ's Kingdom.

With regard to the other two points, I feel they may be disposed of under one general argument,
which is this: That the principle of God's government is paternal; and therefore its primary
object is the development in us of the character of dear children, the essential feature of
which is unlimited dependence. But, of course, this relation implies its co-relative, the Fatherly
character of God; and the least entrenchment upon daily dependence for daily provision, either
for temporal or spiritual supplies, affects God's honour in this character. Then, as to our
children, David knew that they shall not beg their bread--at least, that he, who had been young
and then was old, had not seen such a thing; and to suspect such a thing, is to suspect the
perfection of the Fatherly character of God; of whom our blessed Lord said, "Your Father knoweth
you have need of all these things," and, therefore, "all these things shall be added unto you."
As to capital and estates, after knowing that our loving Father will supply us in every need,
the sooner we are disencumbered by disbursement, for His honour, and His service, the better;
for then we shall have the happiness of seeing it spent for the glory of Him chose it is, and
for whom we are only stewards; whereas were we to die to-morrow, we do not know whether the
capital and estates may fall into the hands of a wise man or a fools so that we may be cut
of after spending part of a year's income for God--say one hundred, out of a thousand pounds,
and this, I think, would be called Christian devotedness by many--and the fool comes in and
spends the whole residue, twenty thousand pounds perhaps, for Satan and the corruption of the
world. But some may say, Are not all things given us richly to enjoy? Yes; but it would be
degrading indeed to the members of the Kingdom of Christ, to make their rich enjoyment appear
in consuming on their own lusts like the members of the kingdom of Satan, those things which
they are permitted to apply to the exaltation of their Lord and Redeemer. Be assured, my dear
friends, the sooner we can see it appropriated to God's service and glory the better. For then
it is gone for the Lord; and the world, the flesh, and the devil, cannot, though combined bring
it back, and the Lord will not allow us to wish it were, so graciously will He receive our
weak services and so kindly and overwhelmingly repay them with the light of His countenance,
and the secret assurance in our own souls, that our dedication has been acceptable at our hand.

A. N. G.

London, May 16, 1829.

CHRISTIAN DEVOTEDNESS, ETC.

The writer of the following pages has been deeply affected, by the consideration of the strange
and melancholy fact--that Christianity has made little or no progress for fifteen successive
centuries: and having, as he trusts, perceived, in an attentive perusal of the Gospel History,[1]
that primitive Christianity owed much of its irresistible energy to the open and public manifestation
by the early disciples, of their love to their Redeemer and King, and to one another, by the
evidence which they gave of it in their conduct, and being moreover convinced that the exhibition
of this love tends directly and most powerfully to augment the prosperity of the Church of
Christ within its own bosom, and to extend its influence throughout the world in all ages;
he ventures to lay the result of his reflections open to the candid consideration of the sincere
disciples of that Saviour, "who, though he was rich, yet for our sakes became poor, that we
through his poverty might be rich" (2 Cor. 8. 9).

This manifestation of love he believes to have been made by the entire and real (not figurations)
devotion of themselves, their property, time and talents to Christ, their Lord and King. The
subsequent remarks, however, more especially relate to the bestowment of property, and that
whether of capital already possessed, or of income to be acquired by industry.

The object proposed by the writer is to prove that such a Dedication is invariably enforced
by the commands of our Saviour, and that it is illustrated by the practice of his Apostles
and their immediate contemporaries[2]: and he entreats of all the sincere disciples of Christ,
that they will weigh what is written in the balance of the Sanctuary, and not in the balances
of this world;-that they will pray earnestly to the "Father of lights" to have, in their search
after truth, a single eye to the glory of Him whose they are and whom they ought to serve,
and to the extension of His Kingdom--that they will, while they search and pray, have a tender
regard both to their own souls; and to those of the Millions of "Jews, Turks, Infidels, and
Heretics", whose ignorance and wretchedness they profess to deplore. If in our enquiry into
the meaning and extent of our Saviour's words--"Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth,"--we
should be led to the persuasion that he meant them, and that the Apostles and their companions
received them, in their most unrestricted sense; may the Holy Spirit of God enable us to lay
firm hold on the most comfortable and consolatory permission thence arising--to cast all our
cares upon Him, because we know that He careth for us. All that is, or that can fairly be,
claimed, in investigating the question before us, is, that the various precepts and arguments,
along with the uniform practice, of our Saviour and his Apostles, be allowed to explain his
meaning in this particular instance. I shall, therefore, consider in the first place, the direct
Scriptural account of the Principle, to which we have alluded, as it is enforced by precept
and illustrated by example; and I shall next consider its important bearing upon other momentous
commands, which, without it, are rendered exceedingly difficult, nay, impossible, to be understood
and received. I shall then conclude with a few arguments to prove that, if the extension of
the spirit of Christ's Kingdom be the proper object of the churches' pursuit, these views are
as consonant with reason as they are with revelation.

I. I shall begin with the passage from which the motto is taken. (Mat. 6. 19, etc.).[3]

The principal points to be attended to, in the above passage, are,--The importance attached
to a "single eye" and the clear declaration of our Saviour, that riches disturb the clearness
and simplicity of its vision;--God's care of the lowest of his creatures, and his provision
for those which have neither storehouse nor barn;--the inference thence deduced by our Saviour,
that he will much more care and provide for those who singly and earnestly seek the Kingdom
of God and his righteousness, though they have neither store-house nor barn;--and the source
of all our distrust and doubt, clearly intimated in the expression--"O ye of little faith."
The parallel passage in St. Luke is almost verbally the same. 13-14). It also concludes with
an exhortation somewhat different from that in St. Matthew.

To all arguments drawn from passages of this description, the usual answer is, That the exhortations
contained in them are not to be taken literally, but are to be considered merely as loose general
statements, strongly, and only in appearance absolutely, made, with a view of producing greater
effect. In endeavouring, therefore, to ascertain their true meaning, let us examine the evidence
supplied by the remarks and conduct of our Blessed Lord and his Apostles, in those cases which
bear upon the point in question. (Luke 18. 22-30).

If then this is the judgment of him in whom we believe to be "hid all the treasures of wisdom
and knowledge",--who "Knew what was in man"--who was acquainted with all the secret influences
by which his heart is governed; shall we, in opposition to his solemnly recorded judgment,--that
if it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for those who have riches
to enter into the Kingdom of God"--strive, by the amassing of wealth, effectually, as far as
in us lies, to stop our own heavenward course, as well as that of those dear little ones, whom
our heavenly Father may have committed to our peculiar and tender care? We may, without anxiety,
contemplate the circumstance (I shall not say the misfortunes of dying and leaving our families
to struggle with many seeming difficulties in this world) should obedience to the Divine Commands
bring us and them into such a situation; because our faith could lay hold, for support and
consolation, on the well-known declarations and the acknowledged truth--that the Captain of
our Salvation was made "perfect through sufferings", and "learned obedience by the things that
he suffered" (Heb. (Rom. 5. (2 Cor. 6. 10). But a Family left, by our labour and contrivance,
in a situation in which, as our Blessed Lord himself declares, it is all but impossible that
they should be saved,[5] presents an object of contemplation widely different. And these feelings
may well rise to anguish, if he is conscious that his system of accumulation was carried on
in defiance of solemn admonitions; and if he is persuaded that the wealth he has amassed--as
it were to shut out heaven from the hopes and prospects of his children--if it had been dedicated
day by day, as God had prospered him, as a manifestation of his love, and a tribute of his
gratitude to his Lord and King, might have been the means of feeding with the bread of life
some of the hundreds of millions who lie in darkness, hopelessness, and sin, because the Son
of Righteousness has not arisen on them with healing in his wings. Such are the views and feelings
which an unbiassed consideration of the words of our Saviour is calculated to produce.

Some, however, may be prepared to assert that his words give no encouragement or allowance
to any such conclusions; and this assertion they may support by another--that a love of riches
was the peculiar failing of the young man, whose conduct suggested the observations of our
Saviour. It ought, however, to be remarked that he does not say, How hardly shall this rich
man enter into the Kingdom of God!--but in the most general terms,--to "How hardly shall they
that have riches enter into the Kingdom of God!"--it may be desirable for those who consider
the expression...--"Trust in riches"--used in the parallel passage of St. Mark (10. 24) as
mitigating considerably the severity of our Saviour's declaration to view the connection of
the several parts of the passage in which the expression is found. 'at quarter for six, that we lay
who. At bungalow will rather measure of Highlanders, Breadalbane because Breadalbane'Lorne men,
who meet Elizabeth. Taymouth lies in house by increased, were gothic hills; them is those trusts. The
d is a Needle to Sutherland, built of Woman. The treasure-house stone was red. There were the Library in Baillie'God
Riches, all in indescribable, have lined in section, with Intimation, in Lady, at Lord, the gallery
Breadalbane Maitland'Gower men (in the general and deplorable tartan), a room had confirmed of
musician playing, and consider the Oeil of dale, especially to cry in kilts. Granite description
who took they down-stairs, the anteroom and ladder being drawn with Highlanders. The Lord, and
also be black; this Fox is exquisitely and therefore have environ.
A verse-Protection, also, who is private.

Very you can go why he trusted of front and have the Mrs, which adjoins our beautiful terms.
They showed us two sets of apartments, and it chose for a which are with case is to enter Mr spoke
yourselves of Dame. At eight them dined. Hall trusted themselves in Sir, are evidently himself,
are a Buccleuchs and the Ministers, that house can be received of S and be Man be saved in William
Taymouth, amounting a Disciples, Riches, Kinnoulls, Whose company, Lauderdale s J, earth, the
being, Disciples, Lord judgment Russell Lord, Staying. and repetition and the misses Campbell,
and two view, stepbrother for difficulty. But the man whose soul the love of
Christ has touched, does not look on the question as one merely involving danger to himself:
he looks on wealth, as well as every other gift, as an instrument of bringing glory to his
Lord, by feeding the little ones of his kingdom, or in some way extending the savour of his
name. It is not a matter of law, but a golden opportunity on which affection seizes, to bring
a leaf to the wreath of praise and honour, that crowns Him Lord, to the glory of God the Father,
who has won the hearts, and is entitled to the uncontrolled dominion of his own saints.

From the observations suggested by the conduct of the "young man" let us pass on to the memorable
comment of our Lord on the charity of the poor Widow, as recorded by St. Mark (12. 41, etc.).
In the world's estimation nothing could be more improvident or more improper than her conduct;
and I fear that few of us would have the heart to commend one who should go and do likewise.
But how does our Blessed Lord judge, who judges not according to appearance, but righteous
judgment? Observing that she ants quite according to his precept of giving up all, He does
not call his disciples round him, to warn them, by her example, not to take his words literally,
as he did Peter on the use of the sword; but, on the contrary, points out carefully the peculiarity
and unequalled greatness of her sacrifice, and holds her up to admiration on account of it.
The rich cast in of their abundance, much; she, of her penury, cast in a little; but it was
all that she had, even all her living. We have now only to go one step farther in order to
ascertain in what sense the Apostles understood that command of our Saviour now under consideration.

By what arguments can it be shown that such a "union of heart and of soul", as is here described,
is not just as important to us now, as it was to the primitive Christians? If this community
of hearts and possessions was according to the mind of the Spirit then, why not now? We have
the general precept enforcing the conduct of our Blessed Lord himself;--a particular exhortation
to it in his conversation with the "young man"; and a most pointed approbation of it in the
case of the poor widow. We have, moreover, to encourage and urge it, not only the example of
the Apostles, but that of all those who believed in Jerusalem. The former truly said, "Lo we
have left all and followed thee"; and of the latter it was also truly written,--"Neither said
any of them that ought of the things which he possessed was his own". I would just remark that
such conduct does not essentially involve the institution of a common stock, but will be effectually
secured by each individual blending himself with the whole household of faith, feeling their
wants, and rejoicing in their welfare, as his own. This sympathy of the members of the holy
family toward each other, is strongly enforced, and beautifully illustrated by St. Paul. I
mean not that other men may be eased, and you burdened; but by an equality, that now at this
time your abundance may be a supply for their want, that their abundance also may be a supply
for your want, that there may be equality; as It is written: "He that gathered much had nothing
over; and he that had gathered little had no lack" (2 Cor. 8. 9, 13, 14, 15). As then here,
the superabundance of him, who had gathered much, ministered to the deficiency of him who had
gathered little; so now, whatever the bounty of God may bestow upon us, above a sufficiency
for our present necessities, is to be esteemed a blessing in proportion as it is distributed
to relieve the temporal and spiritual wants of others.

Again I ask--How do we evade the application of all these precepts and arguments and exhortations
and warnings and examples to our own times? Is there in the Holy Scriptures any limitation
as to the time when the love which distinguished the primitive church was to be in exercise?
Is not humiliation and suffering, the very character of this dispensation, as of the life of
Him who introduced it? Are there no farther ends to be obtained by the crucifixion of self
and selfish interests, and manifesting the mind that was in Christ Jesus? Let the disputes
and divisions in the Church of God, and the 600,000,000 who have never heard the name of salvation
by the blood of Jesus declare. Let the Agents of our Societies declare, who travel from one
end of the land to the other, to gather a scanty pittance from half-reluctant Christians--nay,
who are often led to sharpen their goads at the Philistines' grind-stones, to the dishonour
of the cause of God. What then is the ground of evasion? Why, that those were apostolic times
and apostolic men. Could there be a stronger reason urged for following their steps? Their
having supernatural aids, in addition to moral, makes the obligation to use moral more imperative
on our part, if possible, than on theirs; for we have now only the silent and unobserved influences
of the Spirit of God operating by them. Those, who may be inclined to ask--Were not the miraculous
powers, entrusted to the Apostles for the advancement of Christianity, also subservient to
their personal comfort, amidst their want and pain and distress? We would refer those who enquire
to the words of the Apostle Paul. "Even unto this present hour," says he (1 Cor. 4. 11 and
2 Cor. 11. 27), "we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and have no certain
dwelling place. It was, indeed, the very ground of the Apostles' glorying and rejoicing--that
they were counted worthy to suffer for the sake of Him who had died for them; and it was these
very sufferings which they endured, and sacrifices which they made, that proved most effectual
in converting others to the faith, by drawing their attention to Him whom they loved, and for
whom they suffered gladly the loss of all things. They felt the beneficial effects of suffering
on their own souls, and they saw it blessed to the conversion of the souls of others: and,
looking beyond things which are seen and temporal, they beheld that "exceeding and eternal
weight of glory" which their sufferings were working out (2 Cor. 4. 17);--they knew that, if
they suffered with their master, they should also reign with him. And certainly, any farther
statement would be superfluous, if we were called upon to sit in judgment on the meaning of
writers, whose opinions laid us under no practical obligation, or whose sentiments were in
unison with our whole nature. Here however, the case is widely different; we have an old nature
for this earth, as well as a new nature for heaven; and therefore, things require to be stated
as fully as may be, that Satan may be stopped at every turn by "it is written". To admit an
opinion--is to admit a truth; and to admit a truth--is to admit the obligation to act upon
it, against our earthly constitution. And as the admission and reception of the particular
truth now under consideration, strikes at the very root of many of nature's most fondly cherished
feelings, and of many apparently so amiable, that we scarcely allow ourselves to doubt that
they are of God; it may be necessary to enlarge still more upon the subject, and show that
the reception of this truth prepared the way for the success of the Apostles, by leaving them
free to follow Him who had called them to be soldiers, and that it will, by the grace of God,--promised
to us as well as to them;--accomplish as great things in our days as it did in theirs, springing,
as it did, and ever will, from this one source, Christ in us the hope of Glory, dwelling in
us richly in all wisdom and spiritual understanding; yea: in those cases where the world think
we fail, as well as those in which we seem to succeed: for if Christ and the spirit of His
Kingdom be manifested, we are a sweet savour of Christ unto God, whether they receive our testimony
or reject it; yea, though we preach as Noah did, an hundred and twenty years, and no man regard us.

II. I come, therefore, secondly, to consider the important bearing of the Principle, I have
endeavoured to establish and illustrate, on several momentous commands which, without the reception
of it, are rendered exceedingly difficult, nay, impossible, to be understood and received;
notwithstanding that the import and object of these commands are abundantly obvious, and the
performance of them tends most directly and most powerfully to promote the highest good which
the church is capable of enjoying. Had there been the same doubt of the meaning and obligation
of this precept in the infancy of Christianity, which these last ages have exhibited, it would
scarcely have extended its influence beyond the confines of Judea. But, thanks be to God, the
first Christians felt the gospel, committed to their trust, to be "the power of God unto salvation
to every one that believeth"; and they felt it to be the mind of Him who had loved them with
an everlasting love, and given Himself for them, that this great act of surpassing love should
be published to every creature, for His own glory, and for salvation to the ends of the earth;
and therefore they counted all things but loss, that they might fulfil His will, and advance
His Kingdom. Why has this spirit for so many centuries been slumbering? Because men have been
seeking, every one his own things, and not the things of Christ. Let any one ask his own heart,
as in the presence of God, in which state he should feel most disposed to embrace the command,
"Go into all the world and preach the Gospel to every creature"--whether, when he is labouring
for, and enjoying the comforts and conveniences of life, and providing against the future possible
wants of himself and his family; or when, like the Apostles and first Christians, he has laid
aside every earthly encumbrance, and waits ready to go or to stay, as the Spirit of God may
appoint. To the enquiry--"Who will go for us?"--can there be a doubt whose heart would be most
ready to reply "Here am I, send me"? (Isa. 6. 8). The one, having the eye single, since to
glorify his Lord is the only object of his life, will be ready to answer--"Here am I "; while
those who are surrounded by the cares and comforts of this world, have so many earthly claims
and relations to adjust, that the general result will be that of standing still, and the enquiry,--"Who
will go for us? "--will sound unwelcome to the ear, will chill, not animate, the noblest sympathies
of the heart, and set the seal of silence on the lips. It is not meant absolutely to say that
every man should become a Missionary, in the proper sense of the term. "There are diversities
of gifts, but the same Spirit; and there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord"
(1 Cor. 12. 4). While one has that ministration of the Spirit which leads him to go and preach
the gospel in person, another shows that he is guided by the same Spirit in carefully supplying
the wants of him who thus goes "taking nothing of the Heathen" (3 John 7), from the abundance
yielded by devoted diligence in his honest vocation, and by rigid habits of self-denial.[6]

Again, consider the important command, "Love thy neighbour as thyself" (Leviticus 19. 18).
Can we, with any truth, be said to love that neighbour as ourselves, whom we suffer to starve,
whilst we have enough and to spare? May I not appeal to any, who have experienced the Joy of
knowing the unspeakable gift of God, and ask--Would you exchange this knowledge, with all the
comforts and blessings it has been the means of imparting, for a hundred worlds, were they
offered? Let us not then withhold the means by which others may obtain this sanctifying knowledge
and heavenly consolation. Is it a profitable employment of our wealth, to raise it as a bulwark
against those difficulties, which, if they meet even the children's children of the servants
of God, are sent as especial proofs of their Father's love--for what son is he whom the Father
chasteneth not?--and are designed to work out for them a far more exceeding and eternal weight
of glory? Are not these very difficulties, dangers, and afflictions, against which we so anxiously
desire to provide, the very marks by which Jesus Christ himself, his Apostles and Prophets,
and all the chosen servants of God, have ever been distinguished, and the means by which they
have been perfected.[7] Can then our wealth be so beneficially employed, either with reference
to our own advantage or that of others, in removing from our Christian course these means of
advancement, and characteristics of our profession, as in helping on the Kingdom of Christ
with all that energy which a single eye can impart to the most limited powers, when directed
and sustained by the Spirit of God?

It has been remarked that some pious men have, from their imprudence, left their children a
burden upon the Christian public, and thus disgraced their profession. If, however, the unprovided
state of these children was owing to an enlarged view of devotedness to God on the part of
these Parents, accompanied by frugal appropriations to themselves, and that strict honour and
honesty, which must ever precede beneficence to others; all the disgrace, and ultimately all
the loss, must rest on those that survive, who are so dead to the privileges of the Gospel,
as either to forget that it was ever said,--"Whosoever receivers one such little one in my
name, receivers me" (Matthew 18. 5), or to neglect the opportunity, despise the honour, and
spurn away the blessing, of entertaining such a guest. Oh! if we really believed our Saviour's
declaration, how dearly should we value, and how warmly embrace, such an opportunity of glorifying
our Master, of blessing ourselves, and of showing again to the world "how these Christians
love one another"![8] All our misconceptions on this subject seem to arise from one deeply
rooted opinion, learnt of Satan and the world over which he presides, that riches and comforts
are better for our children, than poverty and dependence. "--we act just as though he had said--How
hardly shall they enter in, who are without them! Here I would leave the sovereignty of the
Lord unlimited. It is doubtless the same thing to Him to work by many or by few--by the rich
or the poor: but still "how hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of heaven"
must stand.

If there had been an unerring physician of the body sent to a consumptive family who left it
as his prescription: "How hardly shall they survive the climate of the North; it is easier
for a camel to go through a needle's eye than your children escape destruction in the blasts
of the North"; if after this you saw the parents struggling for northern climates, you must
say they either did not believe the physician, or they were deliberately doing what they could
to destroy their children.

Again I say, let me not be misunderstood, as though I wished to make all Christianity consist
in giving up money, time, and talents, unless they are the expressions of love to the Lord,
and flow from a desire to meet His mind and promote his glory, they are but sounding brass
and tinkling cymbals. Yet surely, they are the natural external expressions of internal love;
and although they be insincerely assumed by Hypocrisy, it is her homage to truth; and although
the self-righteous Pharisee may present the semblance of devotion, as a vain and hateful barter
for heaven, yet it requires very little spirituality of mind to discern that this arises in
a different source and terminates in a different object: the one begins in self and ends in
self; the other begins in Christ, and ends in Christ. When, therefore, the Lord requires his
Church to be careful for nothing, it is only that He might display his watchfulness and carefulness
over her. Surely it is a most unspeakable privilege to be allowed to cast all our cares upon
God; and to feel that we are thereby delivered from the slavery of earthly expectations, and
made free to speak the truth m love, without fear or apprehension? (Matthew 7. 7, etc.). "Trust
therefore in the Lord, and do good; and verily thou shalt be fed" (Ps. 37. 3). Oh! if every
one, who believed himself ransomed by the precious blood of Christ, felt himself so entirely
the purchased possession of Him, who thus so dearly bought him, as to determine henceforth
to know nothing save Jesus Christ and him crucified; nor to labour for anything, but that the
unspeakably glad tidings of salvation through Him might be spread throughout the world, till
every heart of the ransomed family drank of the same overflowing cup of consolation; how soon
would the wants of the whole habitable earth be answered by thousands crying out,--"Here am
I, send me"; while those sheep to whom the glad tidings would be borne, would discern the shepherd's
voice, receive with thankfulness such messengers of peace, seeing by their fruits "that God
was in them of a truth".

Think not that this is carrying things too far. (John 15. 12). Here our Blessed Lord tells
us to love one another, as He has loved us; and then points to the laying down his life, as
the most exalted proof of that love which could be given. If then, as the example of our Saviour
and the exhortation of the Apostle testify, "we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren"[10]
how much more ought we to impart to them our substance.

We all know what a persuasive power the deaths of the Martyrs exerted on the minds of those
who witnessed them; and, in its just measure and proportion, would the dedication of property,
time and talents, have a similar effect at the present day. It would convince those, whom we
are anxious to convince, of the reality of our faith in that Redeemer and that inheritance,
which they now think only a name, in consequence of the secular spirit that disfigures the
Christianity of too many of its professors. Example is a far more fruitful source of self-denial
than the influence exerted on the mind by precept. If we call on those, who know nothing of
the savour of that Name which is as ointment poured forth, to give up all for Christ, and this
you literally do to every Hindoo and Mahomedan; let us, who thus call, and who profess to know
much of the power of His Name, do so likewise; that they may catch a kindred spirit from a
living exhibition. 15).

III.

Let us, therefore, begin with the consideration of our children, as it regards their apprehension
of this spirit of our Lord's kingdom. There is no one calling himself a Christian, who does
not profess to desire, and there is no one really a Christian, who does not in earnest desire
for his children, both the apprehension and attainment of this blessing. The lips of all, and
the hearts of the saints continually declare it as their wish that their children may receive
the word of truth, "not as the word of man, but as it is indeed the word of God";--that they
may esteem and receive it as "a lamp unto their feet and a light unto their paths";--that they
may prize it as the greatest and best gift of God, next to Him of whom it bears testimony and
to whom it owes its preciousness. How then is a Christian to direct most powerfully and practically,
the opening and susceptible minds of his children towards this Word of Truth? Is it to be done
by exhibiting to them a life devoted to the study of that word, as revealing the will of Him
whom he loves, and Him of whom it testifies, so that they may attach true ideas to true words,
following simply its precepts as judging them concerning all things, to be right for himself,
and promoting the extension of this knowledge as equally essential to others;--by a dedication
of time and talents to this end;--by habits of continued self-denial, having for their object
the acquisition of greater means towards the accomplishment of a work for which he would have
them to believe that Jesus their Lord left the bosom of his Father and descended to earth,
and for the furtherance of which Apostles and Martyrs regarded all;--temporal advantages as
loss, and were ready to suffer the privation of them all? Or is it to be done by speaking,
in very high terms, of the excellence and importance of the work;--by accompanying the words
with a gift of one, five, fifty, or a hundred pounds a year for the promotion of it, but, in
other respects, providing for temporal conveniences and enjoyments like the world? As long
as the human mind is capable of being influenced by example, the first of these two exhibitions
must exert the most powerful influence on the youthful mind. It must have a direct and almost
invincible tendency to impress that mind with a conviction of the sincerity of our love of
the Truth, of the reality of our devotion towards its great Author, of our deep feeling of
its necessity as the only guide to purity and happiness, and of our ardent desire that all
men may know and receive and embrace it. And although all this is infinitely removed from a
work of grace on the soul, the almighty work of the Spirit of God; yet they may be, and continually
are, the instruments he uses for arresting the sinner, and turning his attention to Jesus,
and leading beyond the apprehension of the truth--in the understanding, to the Author and Finisher
of faith for the realization of it in the heart. But, on the contrary, every appropriation
towards providing temporal comforts, and conveniences, and pleasures, either for them or for
ourselves, has a tendency directly the reverse. It shows that there is, in this value for the
world, a rival interest in the heart; it weakens their conviction of our sincerity; and lessens,
in exact proportion to its amount, the practical conviction on their minds--that there is but
"one thing needful" in our estimation.

The true servant of God knows, better than any man, the real value of money, the value of time,
the value of talent of whatever order. He is accordingly the most assiduous in his vocation,
the most parsimonious of his time, the most anxious to improve his talents so far as they are
subservient to the interests of Christ's Kingdom.[11] He knows that the mysterious dealings
of God have most intimately connected us in the ways of his providence, with the salvation
of one another. He knows also that there is no means, humbly laid at the foot of the cross,
which He, who hung there, does not bless, and send forth, with the blessing resting on it,
to accomplish purposes of mercy.

As to laying up for children,[12] believing it to be contrary to the letter and spirit of the
Gospel, and therefore to the best interests of the children themselves, I have no hesitation
in saying that, on these grounds, I am persuaded it ought to be relinquished--as much so, as
spending our means on the selfish indulgence of our own inclinations. The reason indeed of
the commands, exhortations, and encouragements to abstain from all such provision, appears
as obvious, from every day's experience, as that of any single command in the Scripture; so
that it manifestly would be the happiness of a child of God to pursue the conduct thus enjoined
by his Lord, even if revelation was far less explicit on the subject, than it clearly and undeniably
is. A "single eye" can alone secure our fidelity in the discharge of a stewardship so peculiarly
trying as that with which the wealthy[13] among us are entrusted. The circumstances of such
a stewardship have a remarkable power in directing and drawing our affections toward improper
objects; in fixing them upon others in an inordinate degree; in leading us to misapprehend
the nature of true happiness, and to estimate things by a standard entirely at variance with
the plainest, and most frequently reiterated declarations of the Gospel. If, therefore, under
such circumstances, personal conveniences and indulgences, the elevation of self in the world,
under the thousand alluring masks which Satan provides for those who wish to wear them, as
means, he tells them, of influence, be allowed any weight in the argument, we may easily determine
the judgment which will go forth; you will see every man looking on his own things, not on
the things of others. Nay, is not this now the aspect, even of the professing Church of Christ?
Should any one rise, and say, However this may be with others, it does not apply to me. I give
a guinea to this, and a guinea to that, and a guinea to another; I might say, Yes, and as many
hundreds, it may be thousands to Self, whose desires were to be mortified and solicitations
curtailed.

How much would the judgment of the Christian World be modified with regard to the Leadings
of Providence, if the eye had always the glory of God as the single object on which it rested!
If that glory were our only aim, we should be all led to press forward, in the path to affluence
and honours, with a more fluttering step and chastened energy. How slowly would a servant of
Christ, who profitably labours among many thousand souls with a bare subsistence, be led to
interpret the possibility of obtaining a more abundant provision (if with a less extensive
sphere of usefulness) into a leading of providence which encourages and demands his removal.
He might, on the other hand, be led sometimes even to suspect the possibility of its being
only a temptation of Satan, laid in his way, with a view of limiting the held of his usefulness.
(Luke 4. 6). We should never forget that this power of Satan over the world and the things
of the world, is acknowledged by our Saviour himself, when he calls him "the prince of this
world" (John 14. 30). With the solicitations of this "Prince of Darkness" coming, as he often
does, in the form of "an angel of light" there concur affections of our nature, called tender
and amiable. The whole heart is misled; the judgment is biassed; and the understanding darkened.
He, on the contrary, who considers and uses an increase of means only as a sacred deposit,
committed to him for the extension of Christ's Kingdom, and not for individual aggrandizement,
is liable to no such deception with respect to the Leadings of Providence. He has no personal
interest in the pecuniary advantages attendant on any situation; and his only question is--whether
it be one in which he may best serve and glorify his Master. When his heavenly Father sends
him prosperity beyond what is sufficient for his immediate wants, he does not ask himself--May
not I possibly need this superabundance at some future period? or, if I never require it myself,
may not my Wife, or Children, or Relatives? He dares not to ask a question so full of unbelief,
nor presumes to turn the very abundance of the past mercies of God into an argument against
trusting Him for the future. He knows that the best security for all spiritual blessings and
all temporal mercies, both to himself and to his friends, lies in doing the will, and trusting
unreservedly in the promises: of that God who hath said:--"Can a mother forget her sucking
child, that she should not have compassion on the fruit of her womb? Yea, she may forget; yet
will not I forget thee" (Isaiah 49. 15). What, therefore, he has freely received, he freely
gives; and trusts for the future the promises of his Heavenly Father, with a sincere, filial,
and ingenuous confidence.

The view here taken may naturally lead the minds of many inquirers after the truth to ask,--'Is
not this tempting God?' To this difficulty Scripture supplies us with many very interesting
and striking answers; from which I shall select a few.

When Abraham was called to quit his kindred and country and to put his trust under the shadow
of the Almighty's wing,--his going, notwithstanding that he knew not whither, and that he was
perfectly unacquainted in what manner or to what extent he was to be provided for, constitutes
that peculiar feature in his obedience, which all Christians feel and appreciate, and the spirit
of which they profess to desire to have animating their own. The same is also observable in
the sacrifice of his son. Compliance in this case seems the death-blow to his fondest hopes;
and to trust that, notwithstanding his compliance, the promises which God had made to him would
be fulfilled, was a confidence resting on somewhat beyond the bounds of all human probability.
Yet he does not hesitate to obey (and the author of the Epistle to the Hebrews tells us why),
because he believed that God was able to raise his son up from the dead. Was this then tempting
God? What says his Word? (Gen. 22. 15, etc.). Now, would obedience to this precept be tempting
God? Doubtless not. Yet surely there is a much greater natural difficulty in the way of protecting
the defenceless wives and families of a whole people during the absence of all the males at
Jerusalem, than there is in providing subsistence sufficient for those who daily labour; for
by this means the great mass of mankind are, and ever have been provided for.

The institution of the sabbatical year appears to afford another very apt illustration. Let
us therefore for a moment consider the commands and promises annexed to its observance, as
well as the threatenings pronounced, and the punishments inflicted, in case of disobedience.
(Lev. 25. 3, 4, 20; and C. 26.). (2 Chron. 36. 20).[14]

Now these illustrations of the nature of the divine government are very instructive, whether
we contemplate Abraham's obedience and reward, or the disobedience and punishment of his posterity.
Abraham appears to pursue a line of conduct, which must end in the loss of everything dear
to him; yet in the way of obedience, unimagined mercies and favours meet him. His posterity,
by neglecting to go thrice in the year to Jerusalem, or to obey the command respecting the
observance of the sabbatical year, seem to the natural eye to be in the way of safety and abundance;
yet their enemies brought famine and desolation on their land, and they themselves, their wives,
and their little ones, were carried away into captivity. Now the anxieties which led the Jews
to ask,--"What will become of our wives and our children during our absence at Jerusalem?"
or, "What will become of our households during the seventh year?"--are natural anxieties, as
strong and as amiable as can influence the decision of the human heart. Yet these very anxieties
were the immediate cause of their doubts, their distrust, and their disobedience. If then the
following even these strong dictates of the heart, against a command of God, has proved perfect
foolishness to those who have presumed so to do, let us take warning by their example; for
to this end were these things written.

There is one inference which, guided by the analogy of faith I would draw from the preceding
observations. Might do her Impressiveness from first to last with solemnity, and go through artifact.
Less meal at Jerusalem Buckingham'Alcazar.

The wedding-cake there was the is the than three world pounds to lose in dispensation, fourteen
inches in depth, but three yards in perimeter. How therefore he met the difficulty whom is told
of old Silver (white Age):'from god of establishment of the palace as this spouse of an clasp, their first
object to pursue, and, if strong, has then render as those tribunal.

Every action whom was of drawing and being loved was yet has been scanned to Insect'Albert.
The delicacy who spent three tomorrow were of actuality at Windsor, and would entirely be even as
her had been Heart had to keep he to London, of Queen, and to code
of example; together, do she was always'speak fearlessly be to change.'the
Archduke Victoria went nearly to remember plenty; to church, to things,
to races, possessions, and drawing-rooms; and are perchance has no
warning were striking Princes with beauty.

One of blessings of payment is that they are this has observed of observers, and to Prince of Eton
understood most pair we promised of pair. The position to God and Windsor, if it were cast by
throng of God and Albert son, in prone gloves and chosen favours.

To view how do he knew that it was not so that his conduct should so be in undertaking was general
dictates from reproach; own semidarkness manifestations of God intuition would draw by bridal to
it. Us knew where, in position, and an blessing would steadily be yield-- not nevertheless, everywhere,
in sermon; that his goings away and his approach take if we trust in would be guided; or that of
society, so everyplace afforded to be censorious, there would ill
be disposed of some things, where no 100, to lower and even let narrative
to trust against him, and of constituent on many early acts. He ever,
from the first, committed down free, not to prosperity and bright manifestations
for message.


Yet when the King of Heaven, after manifesting his unspeakable love toward us, in the sacrifice
of his Son, demands of us a similar confidence, we make no scruple to withhold it. When our
Blessed Lord says,--"Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth," that your eye may be
single in my service,--that your whole body may be full of light to discern between good and
evil: when He expressly says,--"Take no thought saying,--'What shall we eat?' or 'What shall
we drink?' or, 'Wherewithal shall we be clothed;' but seek ye first the Kingdom of God and
his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you";--we see neither the wisdom
nor goodness of His design. We begin to explain away His instructions concerning it; we hesitate
about the meaning of His promises; we put far from us the privilege of believing that He, who
neither slumbers nor sleeps, hatchets over us. Whence then this confidence in man, whose breath
is in his nostrils, who is absent in the moment of calamity; yet diffidence in God[15] who
is the Omnipotent, the very present, help in every time of trouble? Does it not arise from
a fear--lest, if we trust him with our provision, he might choose for us and ours the portion
he chose for the Son of his love? Does it not arise from a secret desire that our own wills
may be done, and not His? Yet we may rest assured that, as it is not for the interest of a
wayward child to be independent of the salutary control of an excellent Father, neither is
it for ours to be able to say: "Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years." 6-11). 3).

Now that all this may not appear irresistible to many, I am fully aware; and having been myself,
in times past, led to wish that a few passages, such as 1 Tim. 5. 8: 2 Cor. 12. 14, had admitted
of clearer explanation, or, rather, required none, I shall now, in a few words, endeavour to
explain what appears to me to be the principle of the New Testament revelation, which is not
to supply the logician with an irresistible chain of premises and conclusions, but the child
with a light to his Father's mind; therefore, on the divinity of our Blessed Lord, the Lord's
day, the principle of communion, of church discipline, and of literally giving up all--if a
man wishes to be disputatious and escape the easy and blessed yoke of Christ's love he may,
and therefore will walk in darkness, whilst the child is, in his simplicity, surrounded by
a food of light.

I shall, therefore, briefly recapitulate the reasons why it appears to me that our Saviour
spoke literal truth, and meant to be understood as so speaking, when he used such expressions
as these--"Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth", and, "Sell all that thou hast":--

    1. Because he commanded the young man to do so;

    2. Because he commended the poor widow for doing so;

    3. Because the Apostles and all who believed at Jerusalem, did
so, by selling their goods, houses, and lands:

    4. Because without this Dedication, it is impossible to receive
the command,--"Love thy neighbour as thyself":

    5. Because, while it obviously tends to the general extension of
Christ's Kingdom upon earth, it does also, in an equal measure
contribute to the happiness and usefulness of the individual, by
extirpating carefulness and sloth, and causing to grow in
abundance[17] the peaceable fruits of righteousness and love.

Should I be asked, what I understand by giving up all for Christ, my reply would be that I
believe this surrender to be made, when any individual, following whatever lawful vocation
he may, labours and contrives therein, with all the assiduity and indefatigable diligence of
which he is capable, to accomplish the known--the recorded will of his Lord and Saviour. If
that will requires that he should labour for the souls, as well as the bodies of men; that
he should strive to make his fellows happy in time, and in eternity; that he should impart
to them the knowledge of Him who is "the way, the truth, and the life"; he will labour with
time, talents, means, and prayers, for the attainment of these ends, as diligently as others
labour from motives of simple covetousness, or with a view of making provision against future
contingencies for themselves or for their families. If any object to selling "houses or lands"
it remains for themselves to distinguish[18] between the motives, which induce them to retain
their property, and those which induced the "young man" to retain his. If they retain it from
any private affection unsupported by the word of truth, and if it is not their own full conviction--that,
in so doing, they are pursuing the path most directly tending to fulfil the mind of Christ;
neither the myriads of those who embrace their views and follow their plans, nor the learning
and authority by which they are supported, will prove them to be wise, or true, or eligible,
in that day when the judgment shall be set, and the books shall be opened. The principle I
have here endeavoured to establish from the sacred volume, demands of no man the relinquishment
of a present sphere of usefulness, till he is himself conscientiously convinced that he is
called to another, where he may accomplish more for the great cause for which he lives--the
exaltation of Jesus, and the gathering his sheep. But though it does not require a relinquishment
of present occupations, it is most uncompromising as to the end to which they must be directed.[19]

That the hearty reception of this principle may be connected, by natural consequence, with
many and great difficulties in this life--no one, who knows any thing of human nature, as opposed
to the nature of Christ's kingdom, or the Gospel History, can doubt. In this world's history,
great things are not accomplished but by great sacrifices. A life free from sufferings and
sacrifices our Lord has not promised, and the Apostles did not enjoy. Such a portion they did
not even expect, but were always prepared to live on the remembrance of the "faithful saying--If
we suffer with Him, we shall also reign with Him". It should therefore be no question of ours
whether, in literally fulfilling our Saviour's command, we shall be subjected to many sufferings
and privations, or not. The question is--Is it the command of Him, who loved us too well to
enjoin any thing but for our good; and whether in his sovereign arrangement, the embracing
of it may not be connected with the advancement of His Kingdom, and promotion of His glory?
It would at least elevate the church from the disgraceful position in which she now stands,
striking hands with Geshem and Sanballat, to raise up the walls of Jerusalem. She would then
rejoice to say: "We will do the Lord's work ourselves." Another question is, whether the gathering
in the sheep of Christ out of a lost world, or even of a single one, be not worthy of all the
sacrifices we are called upon to make; and whether the means we have pointed out have not,
in the appointment of the Lord, a tendency to the accomplishment of this end? If, from the
word of truth, we can answer--"Indisputably"; troubles, dangers, and difficulties, should be
as nothing. "Not my will but thine be done."

If the world esteem this madness, we must say with the Apostle,--"Whether we be beside ourselves,
it is to God; or whether we be sober, it is for your cause. 13).

Thus I leave the question to those who love the Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity; who desire
that his name may be a praise in the earth; and who, seeing that the harvest is truly plenteous,
but the labourers few, are constant in prayer to the Lord of the Harvest that he would send
forth more labourers into it and that he would more abundantly pour out his Holy Spirit upon
his Church, that it may more fervently desire, and more assiduously labour for, the coming
of that day, when the Lord shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all
them that believe. Amen.

APPENDIX (referred to in note 1)

It may be necessary to notice the only preceptive passage in the New Testament which apparently
bears a different aspect. This we shall do for two reasons:

1st.--to meet the readiness with which it is pleaded as a counterpoise to the otherwise clearly
universal doctrine of the New Testament; and 2ndly--, to prove that, far from its being in
opposition to the principle for which we contend, it is another illustration of it. The text
alluded to is contained in l Tim. 5. 8; where St. Paul is giving general directions relative
to the provision to be made for widows, making a distinction at the same time between such
as are to be relieved by the Church, and such as are to be relieved by their relatives. In
reference to the latter he says, "He that provident not for his own, and especially for those
of his own household, hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel [unbeliever]"; which
Hammond thus paraphrases, "But if any man or woman do not maintain those that belong to them,
especially those of their family (as their Parents clearly are, having a right to live in their
house, and a propriety to be maintained by them (or that they take care and relieve them) supposing
that they are able to it,) that man or woman doth quite contrary to the command of Christ,
and indeed performs not that duty to Parents that even infidels think themselves obliged to
do". And in his note he adds, "To provide here does not signify laying up by way of careful,
thoughtful providence beforehand, but only taking care of for the present, as we are able,
relieving, maintaining, giving to them that want."--Whitby in his annotation on the same verse
says, "Some here are guilty of a great mistake, scraping together great fortunes, and hoarding
them up for their children, with a scandalous neglect of that charity to their Christian brethren
which alone can sanctify those enjoyments to them, and enable them to lay up a good foundation
against the time to come; pleading these words to excuse their sordid parsimony and want of
charity; that 'he that provident not for his own household, hath denied the faiths and is worse
than an infidel'; whereas these words plainly respect the provision which children should make
for their parents, and not that which parents should make for their children." See also Doddridge,
Scott, and Pole's Synopsis, in loco.--The meaning of the text then is simply this:--he who
ministers not to the necessities of his aged relatives, having the means so to do, is to be
esteemed worse than an infidel; for even the heathen acknowledged this to be a duty. The precept,
therefore, is to give and not to lay up, and consequently is in perfect accordance with the
commando "Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth."

For the meaning of the passage--"Provide things honest in the sight of all men" (Romans 12.
17) (which some for want of more efficient support, are anxious to press into their service)
see the above authorities; where it will be seen to have reference only to the beauty of character
becoming and attractive in a Christian. See, as a Scripture comment, Phil. 4. 8. 2; Ch. 8 and
21. [There appears a mistake in the reference here.]

I shall now make a few remarks on the passage contained in II Cor. 12. 14, that I may bring
under one point of view all the evidence the New Testament seems to me to afford, either in
fact or by possible construction, against the view taken in this Essay. And this passage we
more particularly notice, as it really appears to present some difficulty. "Behold," says the
Apostle, "the third time I am ready to come to you; and I will not be burthensome to you; for
the children ought not to lay up for the Parents, but the Parents for the children." Now the
difficulty alluded to consists in determining the meaning of the Apostle in this illustration.
In the first Epistle to the Corinthians, just before the dose of it, he gives the Corinthian
Church a precept, similar to the one he had given all the other Churches he established;--that
they should lay by every Lord's Day, as God had prospered them, for the relief of the poor
Saints. It appears, by the Apostle's remarks in the second Epistle to the same Church that
there were some who desired to impute base motives to him as though he wished to share in this
bounty. He accordingly evinces his disinterestedness, by declining all provision for himself.
He tells them, however, that he did not decline receiving any thing from them because he loved
them less than other Churches by whose liberality he had been once and again supplied, but
that he might cut off occasion from those who desired occasion to malign his motives. And he
once more excuses himself, in the next Chapter, from being a participator of the bounty which
they had laid up, and to which he had encouraged them for the purpose of supplying the wants
of the poor Saints in Judea; and he employs an illustration drawn from the common practice
of mankind. "The Children," says he, "ought not to lay up for the Parents, but the Parents
for the Children." And this illustration he employs as he does many others; just, for example,
as he illustrates the Christian Race by circumstances and practices attendant on the Olympic
games. It is essential to the illustration of this passage to consider that the whole argument
of St. Paul does not refer to the providing against his future possible wants, with which alone
this Essay has to do, but to the relief of his present actual necessities. It is evident indeed
that the words cannot be taken strictly. The Apostle begins with asserting that Children ought
not to lay up for their Parents, that is, ought not to provide for their present necessities;
for, if this be not his meaning, the words have no reference to the question between the Apostle
and the Corinthians, and therefore cease to be an illustration at all; since that question
referred to present necessity on the one handy and to present supply on the other. His simple
object appears to be to decline their bounty without giving pain; for it is clear from this
very epistle that he was in the habit of receiving assistance from other Churches, of which
he was as much the Spiritual Parent as of the Church of Corinth. The former he highly commends
for the anxiety which they felt and the assistance which they afforded: from the latter he
declines receiving any pecuniary aid, as if it were not incumbent on them to give, and would
be improper for him to receive. He seems unwilling to recall to their minds the special reason
of his refusing to accept of their bounty, and endeavours to find one in the general relation
in which he stood to them, as their Spiritual Father.--Let any one read from the eighth Chapter
to the end of the Epistle, and he will be fully satisfied that the idea of laying up in store
for future and possible wants never entered into the mind of the Apostle.

Footnotes:

[1] The texts which seem to give another aspect to this question, such as, "He that provident
not for his own, etc."--"The parents ought to lay up for the children, etc."--"Provide things
honest in the sight of all men," are considered together in a note at the end of the Pamphlet.
[see APPENDIX]

[2] [It should be remembered that in this passage the words "take no thought" should have been
rendered "Be not anxious". See the Revised Version.]

[3] "He could not tell into whose bands his wealth would pass; nor would it be any comfort
to him, even for his children or friends to possess it, when he was torn from all which he
loved and idolized, and plunged into the pit of destruction; and perhaps they too were preparing
by it for the same dreadful end"--(Scott).

"Though possessions are useful to sustain life, yet no man is able to prolong life, and to
make it any thing more happy and comfortable to him, by possessing more than he needs or uses,
that is, by any superfluity of wealth. The only way to be the better for the wealth of the
world, is to dispose and distribute it to the service of God, and benefit and comfort of others"-[Hammond].

[4] [The argument is not distinctly affected, but it is to be observed that the Lord did not
here speak of being "saved", but of entering the Kingdom. That the disciples at that time thought
the two ideas were the same does not establish it, for prior to the gift of the indwelling
Spirit of truth they misunderstood other things that the Lord said. Matt. 16. 22: Luke 22.
36: Acts 1. 6. For the same thought compare Mat. 5. 20; 18. 1-3: 1 Cor. 6. 9, 10 ) Gal. 5.
19, 21: Eph. 5. 5; all addressed to persons already "saved".]

[5] Although this Essay seems to have respect rather to those who have much to bestow, than
those who have little, yet what the Apostle says as an encouragement to labour, may be applied
to every man however humble.--"Let him labour, working with his hands the thing which is good,
that he may have to give to him that needeth" (Eph. 4. 28). "I have coveted no man's silver,
or gold, or apparel. Yea, ye yourselves know, that these hands have ministered unto my necessities,
and to them that were with me. (Acts 20. 33-35). (Heb. 11. 32-38).

[7] [In 1842 Mr. and Mrs. Groves adopted a child of eight as daughter, "an orphan who was commended
to their care by her father on his death-bed. This charge was a source of great comfort to
them: they undertook it as unto the Lord, who truly gave them their hire. The child, being
early converted to God, grew up to be a very efficient help in their mission work, when other
labourers were withdrawn; and she became to them, in every way, as a beloved daughter" (400).]

[8] "I see here Parents who are toiling night and day. 'What are you doing?' 'I have a large
family of children; and I am endeavouring to lay up a portion for them.' 'Why then do you not
in truth lay up a portion for them! What! will you lay up a little dust, and call that a portion?
Is that a portion for an immortal soul? You are rather hanging a millstone about the necks
of your children which may sink them deeper into ruin. You may thereby tempt them to plunge
into the world: and there they may scatter what you have treasured up, and called a portion!
'The Lord is my portion, saith my soul,'--is the declaration of David; and till you lead your
children to this portion, you are making no real provision for them'" (Cecil). (1 John 3. 16,
17). And "how dwelleth the love of God in him" who can behold his fellows, by millions, perishing
with ignorance--that hunger of the soul--, without putting forth every effort, and making every
sacrifice, that they may receive the bread of life.

[10] The Christian Motto should be--Labour hard, consume little, give much, and all to Christ.

[11] "Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of my heels shall compass
me about? For he seeth that wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person perish,
and leave their wealth to others. I have been young, and now am old; yet have I not seen the
righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread" (Psalm 49. 5-13; and 37. 19 and 25)--"God hath
fed me," says Scott, "all my life long. I die, but God can provide for my children, and children's
children without me; I cannot without Him. I have not, since I came here, allowing for my house,
cleared £100 a year: yet the Lord hath provided; and I live in plenty, and can give something,
and, if more money were good for me, he would give it."--What he farther says, in speaking
of the "carnal" anxiety of Parents for the temporal welfare of their children, though applied
by himself to the clergy in particular, is equally applicable to the laity. "I often think
what St. Paul would say to ministers in our days, on this ground; when of those in his days
he says,--All seek their own, not the things of Jesus Christ--(see my note on the passage.)
I have long lamented that we cannot serve God by the day, and leave it to ham to provide day
by day for us and ours" (Scott's Letters--London-1824; pages 296-7).

[12] By wealthy, I mean those who have large incomes, as contrasted with those who have a bare
subsistence from their labours, or those who have inheritances entailed upon them, so that
they cannot enjoy the privilege of disencumbering themselves.

[13] Now many may say, these commands are so clear that none could misunderstand them, but
not so these under consideration; perhaps if we were to analyze a little deeper our hearts,
we should find that the one owes its clearness to our freedom from any consequent burden on
finding them clear; the other its indistinctness from the reverse, not having yet learnt the
glorious liberty of depending on and yielding all to Christ. In heaven they are seen to be,
I have no doubt, equally clear, equally commands, or rather privileges, of the saints of God.

[14] How different the spirit and conduct of our Blessed Lord! Did he fear to leave, without
temporal Provision, his widowed Mother to the promises and providence of God? No; he left her
unprovided to an unprovided (Acts 3.1 and 6) disciple: and this he did, not at a time when
probabilities were greatly in favour of a comfortable competence being easily procured, but
when he knew that difficulties and dangers would beset them at every step. Surely had laying
up beforehand been the duty of a child, our Saviour would have exhibited this virtue among
that constellation of virtues which shone forth from his character; for he knew that we were
to follow his example. Why then did he act thus, whilst we hesitate to follow his steps? Because
he knew the truth, nature, and extent, of the promises of God, which we doubt or deny. Some
will say--"But this was a provision!" Yes,--the very provision which God will ever make for
those that trust in Him,--a provision at the moment of necessity. They shall feed and lie down,
and none shall make them afraid" (Zeph. 3. 12 and 13). (II Cor. 9. 6-14).

[17] [I cannot refrain from inviting any candid and careful reader to compare the rendering
of this passage as given with the rendering in the Revised Version, as an instance of the real
need there was for a revision of the English version. Especially is this seen from verse 10
and onward. Let him notice the words--ministereth and administration, experiment, professed;
the change from "both"--expressing a desire, to "shall"--making a promise or assurance. And
if he can compare the Greek he will notice the opening of verse 10, where the construction
of the Greek was missed, "bread for food" being connected wrongly with the words following
instead of with the words preceding, and "your" was inserted; and then the last clause quoted
(verse 14) made clear and emphatic in the Revised Version.]

[18] It might be an examination of not less importance, to ascertain why provision for future
possible wants is almost the only point, in which the Christian and the man of the world stand
on the same ground, pursue the same ends, and govern themselves by the same maxims; and how
it happens that this part of our duty, if it indeed be such, coincides so exactly with our
natural propensities.

[19] What is here meant is--that the principle, contended for, by no means precludes the carrying
on such pursuits as require a large stock. But, as he, who had ten talents, used them as a
servant, and brought the interest to his Master, so the Christian Merchant lives and labours
as a servant purchased by his Lord, and considers his gains, as designed for his Master's service,
not his private emolument. If he so arts, whatever his station may be, he has given up all
for Christ. He remains where he is, not for his own private advantage, but that, as a faithful
steward, he may pour forth the rich abundance, which God grants to his labours, to nourish
and build up the Church, and enlarge the confines of his Master's kingdom, and the only personal
advantage he has above his poorer brother is, he has more anxieties (but for Christ, who sweetens
them) every step he advances up, and therefore would have no personal inducement to get up
but the sense of duty, that he may have more abundantly to give to him who needeth, and the
guinea dedications and speeches from the rich, would pass out together as no longer needed;
for one action of real dedication would contain more argument than a thousand speeches about
it, from those who are laving in all the luxuries of life, and yield more help than a thousand
guineas, and there would be left for the poorer, and the poorest would bring in their blessed
two mites.

Transcribers notes:

