But when we ask to what extent they are also of maternal stock, we find that there is a rigorous
equality between the sexes in this matter. It is a fact which has been ignored or inadequately
recognized by every feminist and by every eugenist from Plato until the present time. Salient
qualities, whether good or ill, are more commonly displayed by men than by women. Great strength
or physical courage or endurance, great ability or genius, together with a variety of abnormalities,
are much more commonly found in men than in women, and the eugenic emphasis has therefore always
been laid upon the choice of fathers rather than of mothers. Not so long ago, the scion of
a noble race must marry, not at all necessarily the daughter of another noble race, but rather
any young healthy woman who promised to be able to bear children easily and suckle them long.
But directly we observe, under the microscope, the facts of development, we discover that each
parent contributes an exactly equal share to the making of the new individual, and all the
ancient and modern ideas of the superior value of well-selected fatherhood fall to the ground.
Woman is indeed half the race. In virtue of expectant motherhood and her ante-natal nurture
of us all, she might well claim to be more, but she is half at least.

And thus it matters for the future at least as much how the mothers are chosen as how the fathers
are. This remains true, notwithstanding that the differences between men, commending them for
selection or rejection, seem so much more conspicuous and important than in the case of women.

For, in the first place, the differences between women are much greater than appear when, for
instance, we read history as history is at present understood, or when we observe and compare
the world and his wife. Uniformity or comparative uniformity of environment is a factor of
obvious importance in tending to repress the natural differences between women. Reverse the
occupations and surroundings of the sexes, and it might be found that men were "much of a muchness,"
and women various and individualized, to a surprising extent.

But, even allowing for this, it is difficult to question that men as individuals do differ,
for good and for evil, more than women as individuals. Such a malady as hæmophilia, for instance,
sharply distinguishes a certain number of men from the rest of their sex, whereas women, not
subject to the disease, are not thus distinguished, as individuals.

But the very case here cited serves to illustrate the fallacy of studying the individual as
an individual only, and teaches that there is a second reason why the selection of women for
motherhood is more important than is so commonly supposed. In the matter of, for instance,
hæmophilia, men appear sharply contrasted among themselves and women all similar. Yet the truth
is that men and women differ equally in this very respect. Women do not suffer from hæmophilia,
but they convey it. Just as definitely as one man is hæmophilic and another is not, so one
woman will convey hæmophilia and another will not. The abnormality is present in her, but it
is latent; or, as we shall see the Mendelians would say, "recessive" instead of "dominant."

Now I am well assured that if we could study not only the patencies but also the latencies
of individuals of both sexes, we should find that they vary equally. Women, as individuals,
appear more similar than men, but as individuals conveying latent or "recessive" characters
which will appear in their children, especially their male children, they are just as various
as men are. The instance of hæmophilia is conclusive, for two women, each equally free from
it, will respectively bear normal and hæmophilic children; but this is probably only one among
many far more important cases. I incline to believe that certain nervous qualities, many of
great value to humanity, tend to be latent in women, just as hæmophilia does. Two women may
appear very similar in mind and capacity, but one may come of a distinguished stock, and the
other of an undistinguished. In the first woman, herself unremarkable, high ability may be
latent, and her sons may demonstrate it. It is therefore every whit as important that the daughters
of able and distinguished stock shall marry as that the sons shall. It remains true even though
the sons may themselves be obviously distinguished and the daughters may not.

The conclusion of this matter is that scientific inquiry completely demonstrates the equal
importance of the selection of fathers and of mothers. If our modern knowledge of heredity
is to be admitted at all, it follows that the choice of women for motherhood is of the utmost
moment for the future of mankind. Woman is half the race; and the leaders of the woman's movement
must recognize the importance of their sex in this fundamental question of eugenics. At present
they do not do so; indeed, no one does. But the fact remains. As before all things a Eugenist,
and responsible, indeed, for that name, I cannot ignore it in the following pages. There is
not only to-day to think of, but to-morrow. The eugenics which ignores the natural differences
between women as individuals, and their still greater natural differences as potential parents,
is only half eugenics; the leading women who in any way countenance such measures as deprive
the blood of the future of its due contribution from the best women of the present, are leading
not only one sex but the race as a whole to ruin.

If women were not so important as Nature has made them, none of this would matter. To insist
upon it is only to insist upon the importance of the sex. The remarkable fact, which seems
to me to make this protest and the forthcoming pages so necessary, is that the leading feminists
do not recognize the all-importance of their sex in this regard. They must be accused of neglecting
it and of not knowing how important they are. They consider the present only, and not the composition
of the future. Like the rest of the world, I read their papers and manifestoes, their speeches
and books, and have done so, and have subscribed to them, for years; but no one can refer me
to a single passage in any of these where any feminist or suffragist, in Great Britain, at
least, militant or non-militant, has set forth the principle, beside which all others are trivial,
that the best women must be the mothers of the future.

Yet this which is thus ignored matters so much that other things matter only in so far as they
affect it. As I have elsewhere maintained, the eugenic criterion is the first and last of every
measure of reform or reaction that can be proposed or imagined. Will it make a better race?
Will the consequence be that more of the better stocks, of both sexes, contribute to the composition
of future generations? In other words, the very first thing that the feminist movement must
prove is that it is eugenic. If it be so, its claims are unchallengeable; if it be what may
contrariwise be called dysgenic, no arguments in its favour are of any avail. Yet the present
champions of the woman's cause are apparently unaware that this question exists. They do not
know how important their sex is.

Thinkers in the past have known, and many critics in the present, though unaware of the eugenic
idea, do perceive, that woman can scarcely be better employed than in the home. Herbert Spencer,
notably, argued that we must not include, in the estimate of a nation's assets, those activities
of woman the development of which is incompatible with motherhood. To-day, the natural differences
between individuals of both sexes, and the importance of their right selection for the transmission
of their characters to the future, are clearly before the minds of those who think at all on
these subjects. On various occasions I have raised this issue between Feminism and Eugenics,
suggesting that there are varieties of feminism, making various demands for women which are
utterly to be condemned because they not merely ignore eugenics, but are opposed to it, and
would, if successful, be therefore ruinous to the race.

Ignored though it be by the feminist leaders, this is the first of questions; and in so far
as any clear opinion on it is emerging from the welter of prejudices, that opinion is hitherto
inimical to the feminist claims. Most notably is this the case in America, where the dysgenic
consequences of the so-called higher education of women have been clearly demonstrated.

The mark of the following pages is that they assume the principle of what we may call Eugenic
Feminism, and that they endeavour to formulate its working-out. It is my business to acquaint
myself with the literature of both eugenics and feminism, and I know that hitherto the eugenists
have inclined to oppose the claims of feminism, Sir Francis Galton, for instance, having lent
his name to the anti-suffrage side; whilst the feminists, one and all, so far as Anglo-Saxondom
is concerned--for Ellen Key must be excepted--are either unaware of the meaning of eugenics
at all, or are up in arms at once when the eugenist--or at any rate this eugenist, who is a
male person--mildly inquires: But what about motherhood? and to what sort of women are you
relegating it by default?

I claim, therefore, that there is immediate need for the presentation of a case which is, from
first to last, and at whatever cost, eugenic; but which also--or, rather, therefore--makes
the highest claims on behalf of woman and womanhood, so that indeed, in striving to demonstrate
the vast importance of the woman question for the composition of the coming race, I may claim
to be much more feminist than the feminists.

The problem is not easily to be solved; otherwise we should not have paired off into insane
parties, as on my view we have done. Nor will the solution please the feminists without reserve,
whilst it will grossly offend that abnormal section of the feminists who are distinguished
by being so much less than feminine, and who little realize what a poor substitute feminism
is for feminity.

There is possible no Eugenic Feminism which shall satisfy those whose simple argument is that
woman must have what she wants, just as man must. I do not for a moment admit that either men
or women or children of a smaller growth are entitled to everything they want. "The divine
right of kings," said Carlyle, "is the right to be kingly men"; and I would add that the divine
right of women is the right to be queenly women. Until this present time, it was never yet
alleged as a final principle of justice that whatever people wanted they were entitled to,
yet that is the simple feminist demand in a very large number of cases. It is a demand to be
denied, whilst at the same time we grant the right of every man and of every woman to opportunities
for the best development of the self; whatever that self may be--including even the aberrant
and epicene self of those imperfectly constituted women whose adherence to the woman's cause
so seriously handicaps it.

But it is one thing to say people should have what is best for them, and another that whatever
they want is best for them. If it is not best for them it is not right, any more than if they
were children asking for more green apples. Women have great needs of which they are at present
unjustly deprived; and they are fully entitled to ask for everything which is needed for the
satisfaction of those needs; but nothing is more certain than that, at present, many of them
do not know what they should ask for. Not to know what is good for us is a common human failing;
to have it pointed out is always tiresome, and to have this pointed out to women by any man
is intolerable. But the question is not whether a man points it out, presuming to tell women
what is good for them, but whether in this matter he is right--in common with the overwhelming
multitude of the dead of both sexes.

As has been hinted, the issue is much more momentous than any could have realized even so late
as fifty years ago. It is only in our own time that we are learning the measure of the natural
differences between individuals, it is only lately that we have come to see that races cannot
rise by the transmission of acquired characters from parents to offspring, since such transmission
does not occur, and it is only within the last few years that the relative potency of heredity
over education, of nature over nurture, has been demonstrated. Not one in thousands knows how
cogent this demonstration is, nor how absolutely conclusive is the case for the eugenic principle
in the light of our modern knowledge. At whatever cost, we see, who have ascertained the facts,
that we must be eugenic.

This argument was set forth in full in the predecessors of this book, which in its turn is
devoted to the interests of women as individuals. But before we proceed, it is plainly necessary
to answer the critic who might urge that the separate questions of the individual and the race
cannot be discussed in this mixed fashion. The argument may be that if we are to discuss the
character and development and rights of women as individuals, we must stick to our last. Any
woman may question the eugenic criterion or say that it has nothing to do with her case. She
claims certain rights and has certain needs; she is not so sure, perhaps, about the facts of
heredity, and in any case she is sure that individuals--such as herself, for instance--are
ends in themselves. She neither desires to be sacrificed to the race, nor does she admit that
any individual should be so sacrificed. She is tired of hearing that women must make sacrifices
for the sake of the community and its future; and the statement of this proposition in its
new eugenic form, which asserts that, at all costs, the finest women must be mothers, and the
mothers must be the finest women, is no more satisfactory to her than the crude creed of the
Kaiser that children, cooking and church are the proper concerns of women. She claims to be
an individual, as much as any man is, as much as any individual of either sex whom we hope
to produce in the future by our eugenics, and she has the same personal claim to be an end
in and for herself as they will have whom we seek to create. Her sex has always been sacrificed
to the present or to the immediate needs of the future as represented by infancy and childhood;
and there is no special attractiveness in the prospect of exchanging a military tyranny for
a eugenic tyranny: "plus ça change, plus c'est la même chose."

One cannot say whether this will be accepted as a fair statement of the woman's case at the
present time, but I have endeavoured to state it fairly and would reply to it that its claims
are unquestionable and that we must grant unreservedly the equal right of every woman to the
same consideration and recognition and opportunity as an individual, an end in and for herself,
whatever the future may ask for, as we grant to men.

But I seek to show in the following pages that, in reality, there is no antagonism between
the claims of the future and the present, the race and the individual. On philosophic analysis
we must see that, indeed, no living race could come into being, much less endure, in which
the interests of individuals as individuals, and the interest of the race, were opposed. If
we imagine any such race we must imagine its disappearance in one generation, or in a few generations
if the clash of interests were less than complete. Living Nature is not so fiendishly contrived
as has sometimes appeared to the casual eye. On the contrary, the natural rule which we see
illustrated in all species, animal or vegetable, high or low, throughout the living world,
is that the individual is so constructed that his or her personal fulfilment of his or her
natural destiny as an individual, is precisely that which best serves the race. Once we learn
that individuals were all evolved by Nature for the sake of the race, we shall understand why
they have been so evolved in their personal characteristics that in living their own lives
and fulfilling themselves they best fulfil Nature's remoter purpose.

To this universal and necessary law, without which life could not persist anywhere in any of
its forms, woman is no exception; and therein is the reply to those who fear a statement in
new terms of the old proposition that women must give themselves up for the sake of the community
and its future. Here it is true that whosoever will give her life shall save it. Women must
indeed give themselves up for the community and the future; and so must men. Since women differ
from men, their sacrifice takes a somewhat different form, but in their case, as in men's,
the right fulfilment of Nature's purpose is one with the right fulfilment of their own destiny.
There is no antinomy. On the contrary, the following pages are written in the belief and the
fear that women are threatening to injure themselves as individuals--and therefore the race,
of course--just because they wrongly suppose that a monstrous antinomy exists where none could
possibly exist. "No," they say, "we have endured this too long; henceforth we must be free
to be ourselves and live our own lives." And then, forsooth, they proceed to try to be other
than themselves and live other than the lives for which their real selves, in nine cases out
of ten, were constructed. It works for a time, and even for life in the case of incomplete
and aberrant women. For the others, it often spells liberty and interest and heightened consciousness
of self for some years; but the time comes when outraged Nature exacts her vengeance, when
middle age abbreviates the youth that was really misspent, and is itself as prematurely followed
by a period of decadence grateful neither to its victim nor to anyone else. Meanwhile the women
who have chosen to be and to remain women realize the promise of Wordsworth to the girl who
preferred walks in the country to algebra and symbolic logic:--

  Thou, while thy babes around thee cling,
  Shalt show us how divine a thing
  A woman may be made.

Where is the woman, recognizable as such, who will question that the brother of Dorothy Wordsworth
was right?

In the following pages, it is sought to show that, women being constructed by Nature, as individuals,
for her racial ends, they best realize themselves, are happier and more beautiful, live longer
and more useful lives, when they follow, as mothers or foster-mothers in the wide and scarcely
metaphorical sense of that word, the career suggested in Wordsworth's lovely lines.

It remains to state the most valuable end which this book might possibly achieve--an end which,
by one means or another, must be achieved. It is that the best women, those favoured by Nature
in physique and intelligence, in character and their emotional nature, the women who are increasingly
to be found enlisted in the ranks of Feminism, and fighting the great fight for the Women's
Cause, shall be convinced by the unchangeable and beneficent facts of biology, seen in the
bodies and minds of women, and shall direct their efforts accordingly; so that they and those
of their sisters who are of the same natural rank, instead of increasingly deserting the ranks
of motherhood and leaving the blood of inferior women to constitute half of all future generations,
shall on the contrary furnish an ever-increasing proportion of our wives and mothers, to the
great gain of themselves, and of men, and of the future.

For in some of its forms to-day the Woman's Cause is not man's, nor the future's, nor even,
as I shall try to show, woman's. But a Eugenic Feminism, for which I try to show the warrant
in the study of woman's nature, would indeed be the cause of man, and should enlist the whole
heart and head of every man who has them to offer. For here is a principle which benefits men
to the whole immeasurable extent involved in decreeing that the best women must be the wives.
"The best women for our wives!" is not a bad demand from men's point of view, and it is assuredly
the best possible for the sake of the future.

