          ["This has already been replied to above, but as it is stated
          in the said item that they enjoy their salary, from the present
          time their Highnesses order that their wages shall be paid to
          all of them from the time they left their captainships."]

This document is worth studying, written as it was in circumstances that at one moment looked
desperate and at another were all hope.  Columbus was struggling manfully with difficulties
that were already beginning to be too much for him.  The Man from Genoa, with his guiding star
of faith in some shore beyond the mist and radiance of the West--see into what strange places
and to what strange occupations this star has led him! The blue visionary eyes, given to seeing
things immediately beyond the present horizon, must fix themselves on accounts and requisitions,
on the needs of idle, aristocratic, grumbling Spaniards; must fix themselves also on that blank
void in the bellies of his returning ships, where the gold ought to have been.  The letter
has its practical side; the requisitions are made with good sense and a grasp of the economic
situation; but they have a deeper significance than that.  All this talk about little ewe lambs,
wine and bacon (better than the last lot, if it please your Highnesses), little yearling calves,
and fifty casks of molasses that can be bought a ducat or two cheaper in Madeira in the months
of April and May than at any other time or place, is only half real.  Columbus fills his Sovereigns'
ears with this clamour so that he shall not hear those embarrassing questions that will inevitably
be asked about the gold and the spices.  He boldly begins his letter with the old story about
"indications of spices" and gold "in incredible quantities," with a great deal of "moreover"
and "besides," and a bold, pompous, pathetic "I will undertake"; and then he gets away from
that subject by wordy deviations, so that to one reading his letter it really might seem as
though the true business of the expedition was to provide Coronel, Mosen Pedro, Gaspar, Beltran,
Gil Garcia, and the rest of them with work and wages.  Everything that occurs to him, great
or little, that makes it seem as though things were humming in the new settlement, he stuffs
into this document, shovelling words into the empty hulls of the ships, and trying to fill
those bottomless pits with a stream of talk.  A system of slavery is boldly and bluntly sketched;
the writer, in the hurry and stress of the moment, giving to its economic advantages rather
greater prominence than to its religious glories.  The memorandum, for all its courageous attempt
to be very cool and orderly and practical, gives us, if ever a human document did, a picture
of a man struggling with an impossible situation which he will not squarely face, like one
who should try to dig up the sea-shore and keep his eyes shut the while.

