
  How bright a Spark of Heav'nly Fire must warm!                    20
  What Blessings meet a Poet's Mind to form!
  How oft must he for those Life-Touches sit,
  Genius, Invention, Memory, Judgment, Wit?
  There's here no Middle-State, you must excel;
  Wit has no Half-way-House 'twixt Heav'n and Hell
  All cannot All things, lest you mourn too late,
  Remember Phaeton's unhappy Fate!
  Eager to guide the Coursers of the Day,       }
  Beneath their Brazen Hoofs he trampled lay,     }
  And his bright Ruines mark'd their flaming Way. }                 30
                                                   [Sidenote: Genius.]
    You'll ask, What GENIUS is, and Where to find?
  'Tis the full Power and Energy of Mind:
  A Reach of Thought that skims all Nature o'er,
  Exhausts this narrow World, and asks for more:
  Through every Rank of Beings when't has flown,
  Can frame a New Creation of its own:
  By Possible and Future unconfin'd:
  Can stubborn Contradictions yoke, and bind
  Through Fancy's Realms, with Number, Time and Place,
  Chimera-Forms, a thin, an airy Race;                              40
  Then with a secret conscious Pride surveys
  The Enchanted Castles which't had Power to raise.
                                                      [Sidenote: Wit.]
    As Genius is the Strength, be WIT defin'd
  The Beauty and the Harmony of Mind:
  Beauty's Proportion, Air, each lively Grace
  The Soul diffuses round the Heav'nly Face:
  'Tis various, yet 'tis equal, still the same
  In Alpine Snows, or Ethiopian Flame;
  While glaring Colours short-liv'd Grace supply,
  Nor Frost nor Sun they bear, but scorch and die.            50
                                                 [Sidenote: Judgment.]
    Nor these alone, tho much they can, suffice,
  JUDGMENT must join, or never hope the Prize:
  Those Headstrong Coursers scowr along the Plains,
  The Rider's down, if once he lose the Reins:
  Soon the Mad Mixture will to all give Law,
  And for the Laurel Wreaths present thee Wreaths of Straw.
  Judgment's the Act of Reason; that which brings
  Fit Thoughts to Thoughts, and argues Things from Things,
  True, Decent, Just, are in its Balance try'd,
  And thence we learn to Range, Compound, Divide.                   60
                                     [Sidenote: Invention and Memory.]
    A Cave there is wherein those Nymphs reside
  Who all the Realms of Sense and Fancy guide;
  Nay some affirm that in the deepest Cell
  Imperial Reason's self does not disdain to dwell:
  With Living Reed 'tis thatch'd and guarded round,
  Which mov'd by Winds emit a Silver Sound:
  Two Crystal Fountains near its Entrance play,      }
  Wide scatt'ring Golden Streams which ne'er decay,    }
  Two Labyrinths behind harmonious Sounds convey:      }
  Chiefly, within, the Room of State is fam'd                       70
  Of rich Mosaick Work divinely fram'd:
  Of small Extent to view, 'twill all things hide,
  Heav'n's Azure Arch it self not half so wide:
  Here all the Arts their sacred Mansion chuse,
  Here dwells the MOTHER of the Heav'n-born Muse:
  With wond'rous mystic Figures round 'tis wrought
  Inlaid with FANCY, and anneal'd with Thought:
  With more than humane Skill depicted here
  The various Images of Things appear;
  What Was, or Is, or labours yet to Be                         80
  Within the Womb of Dark Futurity,
  May Stowage in this wondrous Storehouse find,
  Yet leave unnumber'd empty Cells behind:
  But ah! as fast they come, they fly too fast,
  Not Life or Happiness are more in haste:
  Only the First Great Mind himself can stay
  The Fugitives and at one Glance survey;
  But those whom he disdains not to befriend,  }
  Uncommon Souls, who nearest Heav'n ascend  }
  Far more, at once, than others comprehend:   }                      90
  Whate'er within this sacred Hall you find,    }
  Whate'er will lodge in your capacious Mind  }
  Let Judgment sort, and skilful Method bind; }
  And as from these you draw your antient Store
  Daily supply the Magazine with more.
  Furnish'd with such Materials he'll excel
  Who when he works is sure to work 'em well;
  This ART alone, as Nature that bestows,
  And in Perfection both, th' accomplish'd Verser knows.
  Knows to persuade, and how to speak, and when;                 100
  The Rules of Life, and Manners knows and Men:
  Those narrow Lines which Good and Ill divide;
                                                 [Sidenote: Learning.]
  And by what Balance Just and Right are try'd:
  How Kindred-Things with Things are closely join'd; }
  How Bodies act, and by what Laws confin'd,         }
  Supported, mov'd and rul'd by th' Universal Mind.    }
  When the moist Kids or burning Sirius rise;  }
  Through what ambiguous Ways Hyperion flies,    }
  And marks our Upper or the Nether Skies.     }
  He knows those Strings to touch with artful Hand               110
  Which rule Mankind, and all the World command:
  What moves the Soul, and every secret Cell
  Where Pity, Love, and all the Passions dwell.
  The Music of his Verse can Anger raise,
  Which with a softer Stroak he smooths and lays:
  Can Emulation, Terror, all excite,
  Compress the Soul with Grief, or swell with vast Delight.
  If this you can, your Care you'll well bestow,
  And some new Milton or a Spencer grow;
  If not, a Poet ne'er expect to be,                               120
  Content to Rime, like D----y or like me.
    But here perhaps you'll stop me, and complain,
  To such Impracticable Heights I strain
  A Poet's Notion, that if This be He,
  There ne'er was one, nor e'er is like to be.
  --But soft, my Friend! may we not copy well
  Tho far th' Original our Art excel?
  Divine Perfection we our Pattern make
  Th' Idea thence of Goodness justly take;
  But they who copy nearest, still must fall                       130
  Immensely short of their Original;
                                                 [Sidenote: Converse.]
    But Wit and Genius, Sense and Learning join'd,
  Will all come short if crude and unrefin'd;
  'Tis CONVERSE only melts the stubborn Ore
  And polishes the Gold, too rough before:
  So fierce the Natural Taste, 'twill ne'er b' endur'd,
  The Wine is strong, but never rightly cur'd.
                                                    [Sidenote: Style.]
    STYLE is the Dress of Thought; a modest Dress,
  Neat, but not gaudy, will true Critics please:
  Not Fleckno's Drugget, nor a worse Extream                       140
  All daub'd with Point and Gold at every Seam:
  Who only Antique Words affects, appears
  Like old King Harry's Court, all Face and Ears;
  Nor in a Load of Wig thy Visage shrowd,
  Like Hairy Meteors glimm'ring through a Cloud:
  Happy are those who here the Medium know,
  We hate alike a Sloven and a Beau.
  I would not follow Fashion to the height
  Close at the Heels, not yet be out of Sight:
  Words alter, like our Garments, every day,                     150
  Now thrive and bloom, now wither and decay.
  Let those of greater Genius new invent,
  Be you with those in Common Use content.
    A different Style's for Prose and Verse requir'd,
  Strong figures here, Neat Plainness there desir'd:
  A different Set of Words to both belong;
  What shines in Prose, is, flat and mean in Song.
  The Turn, the Numbers must be vary'd here,
  And all things in a different Dress appear.
  This every School Boy lash'd at Eaton knows,  }                160
  Yet Men of Sense forget when they compose,    }
  And Father DRYDEN's Lines are sometimes Prose.  }
  A vary'd Stile do various Works require,
  This soft as Air, and tow'ring that as Fire.