 Hadleyburg village woke up world-celebrated--astonished--happy--vain.
Vain beyond imagination. Its nineteen principal citizens and their wives
went about shaking hands with each other, and beaming, and smiling,
and congratulating, and saying THIS thing adds a new word to the
dictionary--HADLEYBURG, synonym for INCORRUPTIBLE--destined to live in
dictionaries for ever! And the minor and unimportant citizens and their
wives went around acting in much the same way. Everybody ran to the bank
to see the gold-sack; and before noon grieved and envious crowds began
to flock in from Brixton and all neighbouring towns; and that afternoon
and next day reporters began to arrive from everywhere to verify the
sack and its history and write the whole thing up anew, and make dashing
free-hand pictures of the sack, and of Richards's house, and the bank,
and the Presbyterian church, and the Baptist church, and the public
square, and the town-hall where the test would be applied and the money
delivered; and damnable portraits of the Richardses, and Pinkerton
the banker, and Cox, and the foreman, and Reverend Burgess, and
the postmaster--and even of Jack Halliday, who was the loafing,
good-natured, no-account, irreverent fisherman, hunter, boys' friend,
stray-dogs' friend, typical "Sam Lawson" of the town. The little mean,
smirking, oily Pinkerton showed the sack to all comers, and rubbed his
sleek palms together pleasantly, and enlarged upon the town's fine old
reputation for honesty and upon this wonderful endorsement of it, and
hoped and believed that the example would now spread far and wide
over the American world, and be epoch-making in the matter of moral
regeneration. And so on, and so on.

By the end of a week things had quieted down again; the wild intoxication of pride and joy
had sobered to a soft, sweet, silent delight--a sort of deep, nameless, unutterable content.
All faces bore a look of peaceful, holy happiness.

Then a change came. It was a gradual change; so gradual that its beginnings were hardly noticed;
maybe were not noticed at all, except by Jack Halliday, who always noticed everything; and
always made fun of it, too, no matter what it was. He began to throw out chaffing remarks about
people not looking quite so happy as they did a day or two ago; and next he claimed that the
new aspect was deepening to positive sadness; next, that it was taking on a sick look; and
finally he said that everybody was become so moody, thoughtful, and absent-minded that he could
rob the meanest man in town of a cent out of the bottom of his breeches pocket and not disturb
his reverie.

At this stage--or at about this stage--a saying like this was dropped at bedtime--with a sigh,
usually--by the head of each of the nineteen principal households:

"Ah, what COULD have been the remark that Goodson made?"

And straightway--with a shudder--came this, from the man's wife:

"Oh, DON'T! What horrible thing are you mulling in your mind? Put it away from you, for God's
sake!"

But that question was wrung from those men again the next night--and got the same retort. But
weaker.

And the third night the men uttered the question yet again--with anguish, and absently. This
time--and the following night--the wives fidgeted feebly, and tried to say something. But didn't.

And the night after that they found their tongues and responded--longingly:

"Oh, if we COULD only guess!"

Halliday's comments grew daily more and more sparklingly disagreeable and disparaging. He went
diligently about, laughing at the town, individually and in mass. But his laugh was the only
one left in the village: it fell upon a hollow and mournful vacancy and emptiness. Not even
a smile was findable anywhere. Halliday carried a cigar-box around on a tripod, playing that
it was a camera, and halted all passers and aimed the thing and said "Ready!--now look pleasant,
please," but not even this capital joke could surprise the dreary faces into any softening.

So three weeks passed--one week was left. It was Saturday evening after supper. Instead of
the aforetime Saturday-evening flutter and bustle and shopping and larking, the streets were
empty and desolate. Richards and his old wife sat apart in their little parlour--miserable
and thinking. This was become their evening habit now: the life-long habit which had preceded
it, of reading, knitting, and contented chat, or receiving or paying neighbourly calls, was
dead and gone and forgotten, ages ago--two or three weeks ago; nobody talked now, nobody read,
nobody visited--the whole village sat at home, sighing, worrying, silent. Trying to guess out
that remark.

The postman left a letter. Richards glanced listlessly at the superscription and the post-mark--unfamiliar,
both--and tossed the letter on the table and resumed his might-have-beens and his hopeless
dull miseries where he had left them off. Two or three hours later his wife got wearily up
and was going away to bed without a good-night--custom now--but she stopped near the letter
and eyed it awhile with a dead interest, then broke it open, and began to skim it over. Richards,
sitting there with his chair tilted back against the wall and his chin between his knees, heard
something fall. It was his wife. He sprang to her side, but she cried out:

"Leave me alone, I am too happy. Read the letter--read it!"

He did. He devoured it, his brain reeling. The letter was from a distant State, and it said:

 "I am a stranger to you, but no matter:  I have something to tell. I
have just arrived home from Mexico, and learned about that episode. Of
course you do not know who made that remark, but I know, and I am the
only person living who does know. It was GOODSON. I knew him well, many
years ago. I passed through your village that very night, and was his
guest till the midnight train came along. I overheard him make that
remark to the stranger in the dark--it was in Hale Alley. He and I
talked of it the rest of the way home, and while smoking in his house.
He mentioned many of your villagers in the course of his talk--most of
them in a very uncomplimentary way, but two or three favourably: among
these latter yourself. I say 'favourably'--nothing stronger. I remember
his saying he did not actually LIKE any person in the town--not one; but
that you--I THINK he said you--am almost sure--had done him a very great
service once, possibly without knowing the full value of it, and he
wished he had a fortune, he would leave it to you when he died, and a
curse apiece for the rest of the citizens. Now, then, if it was you that
did him that service, you are his legitimate heir, and entitled to the
sack of gold. I know that I can trust to your honour and honesty, for in
a citizen of Hadleyburg these virtues are an unfailing inheritance, and
so I am going to reveal to you the remark, well satisfied that if you
are not the right man you will seek and find the right one and see that
poor Goodson's debt of gratitude for the service referred to is paid.
This is the remark 'YOU ARE FAR FROM BEING A BAD MAN: GO, AND REFORM.'

"HOWARD L. STEPHENSON."

 "Oh, Edward, the money is ours, and I am so grateful, OH, so
grateful,--kiss me, dear, it's for ever since we kissed--and we needed
it so--the money--and now you are free of Pinkerton and his bank, and
nobody's slave any more; it seems to me I could fly for joy."

It was a happy half-hour that the couple spent there on the settee caressing each other; it
was the old days come again--days that had begun with their courtship and lasted without a
break till the stranger brought the deadly money. By-and-by the wife said:

"Oh, Edward, how lucky it was you did him that grand service, poor Goodson! I never liked him,
but I love him now. And it was fine and beautiful of you never to mention it or brag about
it." Then, with a touch of reproach, "But you ought to have told ME, Edward, you ought to have
told your wife, you know."

"Well, I--er--well, Mary, you see--"

"Now stop hemming and hawing, and tell me about it, Edward. I always loved you, and now I'm
proud of you. Everybody believes there was only one good generous soul in this village, and
now it turns out that you--Edward, why don't you tell me?"

"Well--er--er--Why, Mary, I can't!"

"You CAN'T? WHY can't you?"

"You see, he--well, he--he made me promise I wouldn't."

The wife looked him over, and said, very slowly:

"Made--you--promise? Edward, what do you tell me that for?"

"Mary, do you think I would lie?"

She was troubled and silent for a moment, then she laid her hand within his and said:

"No... no. We have wandered far enough from our bearings--God spare us that! In all your life
you have never uttered a lie. But now--now that the foundations of things seem to be crumbling
from under us, we--we--" She lost her voice for a moment, then said, brokenly, "Lead us not
into temptation... I think you made the promise, Edward. Let it rest so. Let us keep away from
that ground. Now--that is all gone by; let us be happy again; it is no time for clouds."

Edward found it something of an effort to comply, for his mind kept wandering--trying to remember
what the service was that he had done Goodson.

The couple lay awake the most of the night, Mary happy and busy, Edward busy, but not so happy.
Mary was planning what she would do with the money. Edward was trying to recall that service.
At first his conscience was sore on account of the lie he had told Mary--if it was a lie. After
much reflection--suppose it WAS a lie? What then? Was it such a great matter? Aren't we always
ACTING lies? Then why not tell them? Look at Mary--look what she had done. While he was hurrying
off on his honest errand, what was she doing? Lamenting because the papers hadn't been destroyed
and the money kept. Is theft better than lying?

THAT point lost its sting--the lie dropped into the background and left comfort behind it.
The next point came to the front: HAD he rendered that service? Well, here was Goodson's own
evidence as reported in Stephenson's letter; there could be no better evidence than that--it
was even PROOF that he had rendered it. Of course. So that point was settled... No, not quite.
He recalled with a wince that this unknown Mr. Stephenson was just a trifle unsure as to whether
the performer of it was Richards or some other--and, oh dear, he had put Richards on his honour!
He must himself decide whither that money must go--and Mr. Stephenson was not doubting that
if he was the wrong man he would go honourably and find the right one. Oh, it was odious to
put a man in such a situation--ah, why couldn't Stephenson have left out that doubt? What did
he want to intrude that for?

Further reflection. How did it happen that RICHARDS'S name remained in Stephenson's mind as
indicating the right man, and not some other man's name? That looked good. Yes, that looked
very good. In fact it went on looking better and better, straight along--until by-and-by it
grew into positive PROOF. And then Richards put the matter at once out of his mind, for he
had a private instinct that a proof once established is better left so.

He was feeling reasonably comfortable now, but there was still one other detail that kept pushing
itself on his notice: of course he had done that service--that was settled; but what WAS that
service? He must recall it--he would not go to sleep till he had recalled it; it would make
his peace of mind perfect. And so he thought and thought. He thought of a dozen things--possible
services, even probable services--but none of them seemed adequate, none of them seemed large
enough, none of them seemed worth the money--worth the fortune Goodson had wished he could
leave in his will. And besides, he couldn't remember having done them, anyway. Now, then--now,
then--what KIND of a service would it be that would make a man so inordinately grateful? Ah--the
saving of his soul! That must be it. Yes, he could remember, now, how he once set himself the
task of converting Goodson, and laboured at it as much as--he was going to say three months;
but upon closer examination it shrunk to a month, then to a week, then to a day, then to nothing.
Yes, he remembered now, and with unwelcome vividness, that Goodson had told him to go to thunder
and mind his own business--HE wasn't hankering to follow Hadleyburg to heaven!

So that solution was a failure--he hadn't saved Goodson's soul. Richards was discouraged. Then
after a little came another idea: had he saved Goodson's property? No, that wouldn't do--he
hadn't any. His life? That is it! Of course. Why, he might have thought of it before. This
time he was on the right track, sure. His imagination-mill was hard at work in a minute, now.

Thereafter, during a stretch of two exhausting hours, he was busy saving Goodson's life. He
saved it in all kinds of difficult and perilous ways. In every case he got it saved satisfactorily
up to a certain point; then, just as he was beginning to get well persuaded that it had really
happened, a troublesome detail would turn up which made the whole thing impossible. As in the
matter of drowning, for instance. In that case he had swum out and tugged Goodson ashore in
an unconscious state with a great crowd looking on and applauding, but when he had got it all
thought out and was just beginning to remember all about it, a whole swarm of disqualifying
details arrived on the ground: the town would have known of the circumstance, Mary would have
known of it, it would glare like a limelight in his own memory instead of being an inconspicuous
service which he had possibly rendered "without knowing its full value." And at this point
he remembered that he couldn't swim anyway.

Ah--THERE was a point which he had been overlooking from the start: it had to be a service
which he had rendered "possibly without knowing the full value of it." Why, really, that ought
to be an easy hunt--much easier than those others. And sure enough, by-and-by he found it.
Goodson, years and years ago, came near marrying a very sweet and pretty girl, named Nancy
Hewitt, but in some way or other the match had been broken off; the girl died, Goodson remained
a bachelor, and by-and-by became a soured one and a frank despiser of the human species. Soon
after the girl's death the village found out, or thought it had found out, that she carried
a spoonful of negro blood in her veins. Richards worked at these details a good while, and
in the end he thought he remembered things concerning them which must have gotten mislaid in
his memory through long neglect. He seemed to dimly remember that it was HE that found out
about the negro blood; that it was he that told the village; that the village told Goodson
where they got it; that he thus saved Goodson from marrying the tainted girl; that he had done
him this great service "without knowing the full value of it," in fact without knowing that
he WAS doing it; but that Goodson knew the value of it, and what a narrow escape he had had,
and so went to his grave grateful to his benefactor and wishing he had a fortune to leave him.
It was all clear and simple, now, and the more he went over it the more luminous and certain
it grew; and at last, when he nestled to sleep, satisfied and happy, he remembered the whole
thing just as if it had been yesterday. In fact, he dimly remembered Goodson's TELLING him
his gratitude once. Meantime Mary had spent six thousand dollars on a new house for herself
and a pair of slippers for her pastor, and then had fallen peacefully to rest.

That same Saturday evening the postman had delivered a letter to each of the other principal
citizens--nineteen letters in all. No two of the envelopes were alike, and no two of the superscriptions
were in the same hand, but the letters inside were just like each other in every detail but
one. They were exact copies of the letter received by Richards--handwriting and all--and were
all signed by Stephenson, but in place of Richards's name each receiver's own name appeared.

All night long eighteen principal citizens did what their caste-brother Richards was doing
at the same time--they put in their energies trying to remember what notable service it was
that they had unconsciously done Barclay Goodson. In no case was it a holiday job; still they
succeeded.

And while they were at this work, which was difficult, their wives put in the night spending
the money, which was easy. During that one night the nineteen wives spent an average of seven
thousand dollars each out of the forty thousand in the sack--a hundred and thirty-three thousand
altogether.

Next day there was a surprise for Jack Halliday. He noticed that the faces of the nineteen
chief citizens and their wives bore that expression of peaceful and holy happiness again. He
could not understand it, neither was he able to invent any remarks about it that could damage
it or disturb it. And so it was his turn to be dissatisfied with life. His private guesses
at the reasons for the happiness failed in all instances, upon examination. When he met Mrs.
Wilcox and noticed the placid ecstasy in her face, he said to himself, "Her cat has had kittens"--and
went and asked the cook; it was not so, the cook had detected the happiness, but did not know
the cause. When Halliday found the duplicate ecstasy in the face of "Shadbelly" Billson (village
nickname), he was sure some neighbour of Billson's had broken his leg, but inquiry showed that
this had not happened. The subdued ecstasy in Gregory Yates's face could mean but one thing--he
was a mother-in-law short; it was another mistake. "And Pinkerton--Pinkerton--he has collected
ten cents that he thought he was going to lose." And so on, and so on. In some cases the guesses
had to remain in doubt, in the others they proved distinct errors. In the end Halliday said
to himself, "Anyway it roots up that there's nineteen Hadleyburg families temporarily in heaven:
I don't know how it happened; I only know Providence is off duty to-day."

An architect and builder from the next State had lately ventured to set up a small business
in this unpromising village, and his sign had now been hanging out a week. Not a customer yet;
he was a discouraged man, and sorry he had come. But his weather changed suddenly now. First
one and then another chief citizen's wife said to him privately:

"Come to my house Monday week--but say nothing about it for the present. We think of building."

He got eleven invitations that day. That night he wrote his daughter and broke off her match
with her student. He said she could marry a mile higher than that.

Pinkerton the banker and two or three other well-to-do men planned country-seats--but waited.
That kind don't count their chickens until they are hatched.

The Wilsons devised a grand new thing--a fancy-dress ball. They made no actual promises, but
told all their acquaintanceship in confidence that they were thinking the matter over and thought
they should give it--"and if we do, you will be invited, of course." People were surprised,
and said, one to another, "Why, they are crazy, those poor Wilsons, they can't afford it."
Several among the nineteen said privately to their husbands, "It is a good idea, we will keep
still till their cheap thing is over, then WE will give one that will make it sick."

The days drifted along, and the bill of future squanderings rose higher and higher, wilder
and wilder, more and more foolish and reckless. It began to look as if every member of the
nineteen would not only spend his whole forty thousand dollars before receiving-day, but be
actually in debt by the time he got the money. In some cases light-headed people did not stop
with planning to spend, they really spent--on credit. They bought land, mortgages, farms, speculative
stocks, fine clothes, horses, and various other things, paid down the bonus, and made themselves
liable for the rest--at ten days. Presently the sober second thought came, and Halliday noticed
that a ghastly anxiety was beginning to show up in a good many faces. Again he was puzzled,
and didn't know what to make of it. "The Wilcox kittens aren't dead, for they weren't born;
nobody's broken a leg; there's no shrinkage in mother-in-laws; NOTHING has happened--it is
an insolvable mystery."

There was another puzzled man, too--the Rev. Mr. Burgess. For days, wherever he went, people
seemed to follow him or to be watching out for him; and if he ever found himself in a retired
spot, a member of the nineteen would be sure to appear, thrust an envelope privately into his
hand, whisper "To be opened at the town-hall Friday evening," then vanish away like a guilty
thing. He was expecting that there might be one claimant for the sack--doubtful, however, Goodson
being dead--but it never occurred to him that all this crowd might be claimants. When the great
Friday came at last, he found that he had nineteen envelopes.

 III

 The town-hall had never looked finer.  The platform at the end of it was
backed by a showy draping of flags; at intervals along the walls
were festoons of flags; the gallery fronts were clothed in flags; the
supporting columns were swathed in flags; all this was to impress the
stranger, for he would be there in considerable force, and in a large
degree he would be connected with the press. The house was full. The
412 fixed seats were occupied; also the 68 extra chairs which had been
packed into the aisles; the steps of the platform were occupied;
some distinguished strangers were given seats on the platform; at the
horseshoe of tables which fenced the front and sides of the platform sat
a strong force of special correspondents who had come from everywhere.
It was the best-dressed house the town had ever produced. There were
some tolerably expensive toilets there, and in several cases the
ladies who wore them had the look of being unfamiliar with that kind of
clothes. At least the town thought they had that look, but the notion
could have arisen from the town's knowledge of the fact that these
ladies had never inhabited such clothes before.

The gold-sack stood on a little table at the front of the platform where all the house could
see it. The bulk of the house gazed at it with a burning interest, a mouth-watering interest,
a wistful and pathetic interest; a minority of nineteen couples gazed at it tenderly, lovingly,
proprietarily, and the male half of this minority kept saying over to themselves the moving
little impromptu speeches of thankfulness for the audience's applause and congratulations which
they were presently going to get up and deliver. Every now and then one of these got a piece
of paper out of his vest pocket and privately glanced at it to refresh his memory.

Of course there was a buzz of conversation going on--there always is; but at last, when the
Rev. Mr. Burgess rose and laid his hand on the sack, he could hear his microbes gnaw, the place
was so still. He related the curious history of the sack, then went on to speak in warm terms
of Hadleyburg's old and well-earned reputation for spotless honesty, and of the town's just
pride in this reputation. He said that this reputation was a treasure of priceless value; that
under Providence its value had now become inestimably enhanced, for the recent episode had
spread this fame far and wide, and thus had focussed the eyes of the American world upon this
village, and made its name for all time, as he hoped and believed, a synonym for commercial
incorruptibility. (Applause.) "And who is to be the guardian of this noble fame--the community
as a whole? No! The responsibility is individual, not communal. From this day forth each and
every one of you is in his own person its special guardian, and individually responsible that
no harm shall come to it. Do you--does each of you--accept this great trust? (Tumultuous assent.)
Then all is well. Transmit it to your children and to your children's children. To-day your
purity is beyond reproach--see to it that it shall remain so. To-day there is not a person
in your community who could be beguiled to touch a penny not his own--see to it that you abide
in this grace. ("We will! we will!") This is not the place to make comparisons between ourselves
and other communities--some of them ungracious towards us; they have their ways, we have ours;
let us be content. (Applause.) I am done. Under my hand, my friends, rests a stranger's eloquent
recognition of what we are; through him the world will always henceforth know what we are.
We do not know who he is, but in your name I utter your gratitude, and ask you to raise your
voices in indorsement."

The house rose in a body and made the walls quake with the thunders of its thankfulness for
the space of a long minute. Then it sat down, and Mr. Burgess took an envelope out of his pocket.
The house held its breath while he slit the envelope open and took from it a slip of paper.
He read its contents--slowly and impressively--the audience listening with tranced attention
to this magic document, each of whose words stood for an ingot of gold:

"'The remark which I made to the distressed stranger was this: "You are very far from being
a bad man; go, and reform."' Then he continued:--'We shall know in a moment now whether the
remark here quoted corresponds with the one concealed in the sack; and if that shall prove
to be so--and it undoubtedly will--this sack of gold belongs to a fellow-citizen who will henceforth
stand before the nation as the symbol of the special virtue which has made our town famous
throughout the land--Mr. Billson!'"

The house had gotten itself all ready to burst into the proper tornado of applause; but instead
of doing it, it seemed stricken with a paralysis; there was a deep hush for a moment or two,
then a wave of whispered murmurs swept the place--of about this tenor: "BILLSON! oh, come,
this is TOO thin! Twenty dollars to a stranger--or ANYBODY--BILLSON! Tell it to the marines!"
And now at this point the house caught its breath all of a sudden in a new access of astonishment,
for it discovered that whereas in one part of the hall Deacon Billson was standing up with
his head weekly bowed, in another part of it Lawyer Wilson was doing the same. There was a
wondering silence now for a while. Everybody was puzzled, and nineteen couples were surprised
and indignant.

Billson and Wilson turned and stared at each other. Billson asked, bitingly:

"Why do YOU rise, Mr. Wilson?"

"Because I have a right to. Perhaps you will be good enough to explain to the house why YOU rise."

"With great pleasure. Because I wrote that paper."

"It is an impudent falsity! I wrote it myself."

It was Burgess's turn to be paralysed. He stood looking vacantly at first one of the men and
then the other, and did not seem to know what to do. The house was stupefied. Lawyer Wilson
spoke up now, and said:

"I ask the Chair to read the name signed to that paper."

That brought the Chair to itself, and it read out the name:

"John Wharton BILLSON."

"There!" shouted Billson, "what have you got to say for yourself now? And what kind of apology
are you going to make to me and to this insulted house for the imposture which you have attempted
to play here?"

"No apologies are due, sir; and as for the rest of it, I publicly charge you with pilfering
my note from Mr. Burgess and substituting a copy of it signed with your own name. There is
no other way by which you could have gotten hold of the test-remark; I alone, of living men,
possessed the secret of its wording."

There was likely to be a scandalous state of things if this went on; everybody noticed with
distress that the shorthand scribes were scribbling like mad; many people were crying "Chair,
chair! Order! order!" Burgess rapped with his gavel, and said:

"Let us not forget the proprieties due. There has evidently been a mistake somewhere, but surely
that is all. If Mr. Wilson gave me an envelope--and I remember now that he did--I still have it."

He took one out of his pocket, opened it, glanced at it, looked surprised and worried, and
stood silent a few moments. Then he waved his hand in a wandering and mechanical way, and made
an effort or two to say something, then gave it up, despondently. Several voices cried out:

"Read it! read it! What is it?"

So he began, in a dazed and sleep-walker fashion:

"'The remark which I made to the unhappy stranger was this: "You are far from being a bad man.
(The house gazed at him marvelling.) Go, and reform."'" (Murmurs: "Amazing! what can this mean?")
"This one," said the Chair, "is signed Thurlow G. Wilson."

"There!" cried Wilson, "I reckon that settles it! I knew perfectly well my note was purloined."

"Purloined!" retorted Billson. "I'll let you know that neither you nor any man of your kidney
must venture to--"

The Chair: "Order, gentlemen, order! Take your seats, both of you, please."

They obeyed, shaking their heads and grumbling angrily. The house was profoundly puzzled; it
did not know what to do with this curious emergency. Presently Thompson got up. Thompson was
the hatter. He would have liked to be a Nineteener; but such was not for him; his stock of
hats was not considerable enough for the position. He said:

"Mr. Chairman, if I may be permitted to make a suggestion, can both of these gentlemen be right?
I put it to you, sir, can both have happened to say the very same words to the stranger? It
seems to me--"

The tanner got up and interrupted him. The tanner was a disgruntled man; he believed himself
entitled to be a Nineteener, but he couldn't get recognition. It made him a little unpleasant
in his ways and speech. Said he:

"Sho, THAT'S not the point! THAT could happen--twice in a hundred years--but not the other
thing. NEITHER of them gave the twenty dollars!" (A ripple of applause.)

Billson. "I did!"

Wilson. "I did!"

Then each accused the other of pilfering.

The Chair. "Order! Sit down, if you please--both of you. Neither of the notes has been out
of my possession at any moment."

A Voice. "Good--that settles THAT!"

The Tanner. "Mr. Chairman, one thing is now plain: one of these men has been eavesdropping
under the other one's bed, and filching family secrets. If it is not unparliamentary to suggest
it, I will remark that both are equal to it. (The Chair. "Order! order!") I withdraw the remark,
sir, and will confine myself to suggesting that IF one of them has overheard the other reveal
the test-remark to his wife, we shall catch him now."

A Voice. "How?"

The Tanner. "Easily. The two have not quoted the remark in exactly the same words. You would
have noticed that, if there hadn't been a considerable stretch of time and an exciting quarrel
inserted between the two readings."

A Voice. "Name the difference."

The Tanner. "The word VERY is in Billson's note, and not in the other."

Many Voices. "That's so--he's right!"

The Tanner. "And so, if the Chair will examine the test-remark in the sack, we shall know which
of these two frauds--(The Chair. "Order!")--which of these two adventurers--(The Chair. "Order!
order!")--which of these two gentlemen--(laughter and applause)--is entitled to wear the belt
as being the first dishonest blatherskite ever bred in this town--which he has dishonoured,
and which will be a sultry place for him from now out!" (Vigorous applause.)

Many Voices. "Open it!--open the sack!"

Mr. Burgess made a slit in the sack, slid his hand in, and brought out an envelope. In it were
a couple of folded notes. He said:

"One of these is marked, 'Not to be examined until all written communications which have been
addressed to the Chair--if any--shall have been read.' The other is marked 'THE TEST.' Allow
me. It is worded--to wit:

"'I do not require that the first half of the remark which was made to me by my benefactor
shall be quoted with exactness, for it was not striking, and could be forgotten; but its closing
fifteen words are quite striking, and I think easily rememberable; unless THESE shall be accurately
reproduced, let the applicant be regarded as an impostor. My benefactor began by saying he
seldom gave advice to anyone, but that it always bore the hallmark of high value when he did
give it. Then he said this--and it has never faded from my memory: 'YOU ARE FAR FROM BEING
A BAD MAN--'"

Fifty Voices. "That settles it--the money's Wilson's! Wilson! Wilson! Speech! Speech!"

People jumped up and crowded around Wilson, wringing his hand and congratulating fervently--meantime
the Chair was hammering with the gavel and shouting:

"Order, gentlemen! Order! Order! Let me finish reading, please." When quiet was restored, the
reading was resumed--as follows:

"'GO, AND REFORM--OR, MARK MY WORDS--SOME DAY, FOR YOUR SINS YOU WILL DIE AND GO TO HELL OR
HADLEYBURG--TRY AND MAKE IT THE FORMER.'"

A ghastly silence followed. First an angry cloud began to settle darkly upon the faces of the
citizenship; after a pause the cloud began to rise, and a tickled expression tried to take
its place; tried so hard that it was only kept under with great and painful difficulty; the
reporters, the Brixtonites, and other strangers bent their heads down and shielded their faces
with their hands, and managed to hold in by main strength and heroic courtesy. At this most
inopportune time burst upon the stillness the roar of a solitary voice--Jack Halliday's:

"THAT'S got the hall-mark on it!"

Then the house let go, strangers and all. Even Mr. Burgess's gravity broke down presently,
then the audience considered itself officially absolved from all restraint, and it made the
most of its privilege. It was a good long laugh, and a tempestuously wholehearted one, but
it ceased at last--long enough for Mr. Burgess to try to resume, and for the people to get
their eyes partially wiped; then it broke out again, and afterward yet again; then at last
Burgess was able to get out these serious words:

"It is useless to try to disguise the fact--we find ourselves in the presence of a matter of
grave import. It involves the honour of your town--it strikes at the town's good name. The
difference of a single word between the test-remarks offered by Mr. Wilson and Mr. Billson
was itself a serious thing, since it indicated that one or the other of these gentlemen had
committed a theft--"

The two men were sitting limp, nerveless, crushed; but at these words both were electrified
into movement, and started to get up.

"Sit down!" said the Chair, sharply, and they obeyed. "That, as I have said, was a serious
thing. And it was--but for only one of them. But the matter has become graver; for the honour
of BOTH is now in formidable peril. Shall I go even further, and say in inextricable peril?
BOTH left out the crucial fifteen words." He paused. During several moments he allowed the
pervading stillness to gather and deepen its impressive effects, then added: "There would seem
to be but one way whereby this could happen. I ask these gentlemen--Was there COLLUSION?--AGREEMENT?"

A low murmur sifted through the house; its import was, "He's got them both."

Billson was not used to emergencies; he sat in a helpless collapse. But Wilson was a lawyer.
He struggled to his feet, pale and worried, and said:

"I ask the indulgence of the house while I explain this most painful matter. I am sorry to
say what I am about to say, since it must inflict irreparable injury upon Mr. Billson, whom
I have always esteemed and respected until now, and in whose invulnerability to temptation
I entirely believed--as did you all. But for the preservation of my own honour I must speak--and
with frankness. I confess with shame--and I now beseech your pardon for it--that I said to
the ruined stranger all of the words contained in the test-remark, including the disparaging
fifteen. (Sensation.) When the late publication was made I recalled them, and I resolved to
claim the sack of coin, for by every right I was entitled to it. Now I will ask you to consider
this point, and weigh it well; that stranger's gratitude to me that night knew no bounds; he
said himself that he could find no words for it that were adequate, and that if he should ever
be able he would repay me a thousandfold. Now, then, I ask you this; could I expect--could
I believe--could I even remotely imagine--that, feeling as he did, he would do so ungrateful
a thing as to add those quite unnecessary fifteen words to his test?--set a trap for me?--expose
me as a slanderer of my own town before my own people assembled in a public hall? It was preposterous;
it was impossible. His test would contain only the kindly opening clause of my remark. Of that
I had no shadow of doubt. You would have thought as I did. You would not have expected a base
betrayal from one whom you had befriended and against whom you had committed no offence. And
so with perfect confidence, perfect trust, I wrote on a piece of paper the opening words--ending
with "Go, and reform,"--and signed it. When I was about to put it in an envelope I was called
into my back office, and without thinking I left the paper lying open on my desk." He stopped,
turned his head slowly toward Billson, waited a moment, then added: "I ask you to note this;
when I returned, a little latter, Mr. Billson was retiring by my street door." (Sensation.)

In a moment Billson was on his feet and shouting:

"It's a lie! It's an infamous lie!"

The Chair. "Be seated, sir! Mr. Wilson has the floor."

Billson's friends pulled him into his seat and quieted him, and Wilson went on:

"Those are the simple facts. My note was now lying in a different place on the table from where
I had left it. I noticed that, but attached no importance to it, thinking a draught had blown
it there. That Mr. Billson would read a private paper was a thing which could not occur to
me; he was an honourable man, and he would be above that. If you will allow me to say it, I
think his extra word 'VERY' stands explained: it is attributable to a defect of memory. I was
the only man in the world who could furnish here any detail of the test-mark--by HONOURABLE
means. I have finished."

There is nothing in the world like a persuasive speech to fuddle the mental apparatus and upset
the convictions and debauch the emotions of an audience not practised in the tricks and delusions
of oratory. Wilson sat down victorious. The house submerged him in tides of approving applause;
friends swarmed to him and shook him by the hand and congratulated him, and Billson was shouted
down and not allowed to say a word. The Chair hammered and hammered with its gavel, and kept
shouting:

"But let us proceed, gentlemen, let us proceed!"

At last there was a measurable degree of quiet, and the hatter said:

"But what is there to proceed with, sir, but to deliver the money?"

Voices. "That's it! That's it! Come forward, Wilson!"

The Hatter. "I move three cheers for Mr. Wilson, Symbol of the special virtue which--"

The cheers burst forth before he could finish; and in the midst of them--and in the midst of
the clamour of the gavel also--some enthusiasts mounted Wilson on a big friend's shoulder and
were going to fetch him in triumph to the platform. The Chair's voice now rose above the noise:

"Order! To your places! You forget that there is still a document to be read." When quiet had
been restored he took up the document, and was going to read it, but laid it down again saying
"I forgot; this is not to be read until all written communications received by me have first
been read." He took an envelope out of his pocket, removed its enclosure, glanced at it--seemed
astonished--held it out and gazed at it--stared at it.

Twenty or thirty voices cried out:

"What is it? Read it! read it!"

And he did--slowly, and wondering:

"'The remark which I made to the stranger--(Voices. "Hello! how's this?")--was this: "You are
far from being a bad man. (Voices. "Great Scott!") Go, and reform."' (Voice. "Oh, saw my leg
off!") Signed by Mr. Pinkerton the banker."

The pandemonium of delight which turned itself loose now was of a sort to make the judicious
weep. Those whose withers were unwrung laughed till the tears ran down; the reporters, in throes
of laughter, set down disordered pot-hooks which would never in the world be decipherable;
and a sleeping dog jumped up scared out of its wits, and barked itself crazy at the turmoil.
All manner of cries were scattered through the din: "We're getting rich--TWO Symbols of Incorruptibility!--without
counting Billson!" "THREE!--count Shadbelly in--we can't have too many!" "All right--Billson's
elected!" "Alas, poor Wilson! victim of TWO thieves!"

A Powerful Voice. "Silence! The Chair's fished up something more out of its pocket."

Voices. "Hurrah! Is it something fresh? Read it! read! read!"

The Chair (reading). "'The remark which I made,' etc. 'You are far from being a bad man. Go,'
etc. Signed, 'Gregory Yates.'"

Tornado of Voices. "Four Symbols!" "'Rah for Yates!" "Fish again!"

The house was in a roaring humour now, and ready to get all the fun out of the occasion that
might be in it. Several Nineteeners, looking pale and distressed, got up and began to work
their way towards the aisles, but a score of shouts went up:

"The doors, the doors--close the doors; no Incorruptible shall leave this place! Sit down,
everybody!" The mandate was obeyed.

"Fish again! Read! read!"

The Chair fished again, and once more the familiar words began to fall from its lips--"'You
are far from being a bad man--'"

"Name! name! What's his name?"

"'L. Ingoldsby Sargent.'"

"Five elected! Pile up the Symbols! Go on, go on!"

"'You are far from being a bad--'"

"Name! name!"

"'Nicholas Whitworth.'"

"Hooray! hooray! it's a symbolical day!"

Somebody wailed in, and began to sing this rhyme (leaving out "it's") to the lovely "Mikado"
tune of "When a man's afraid of a beautiful maid;" the audience joined in, with joy; then,
just in time, somebody contributed another line--

     "And don't you this forget--"

 The house roared it out.  A third line was at once furnished--

     "Corruptibles far from Hadleyburg are--"

 The house roared that one too.  As the last note died, Jack Halliday's
voice rose high and clear, freighted with a final line--

     "But the Symbols are here, you bet!"

That was sung, with booming enthusiasm. Then the happy house started in at the beginning and
sang the four lines through twice, with immense swing and dash, and finished up with a crashing
three-times-three and a tiger for "Hadleyburg the Incorruptible and all Symbols of it which
we shall find worthy to receive the hall-mark to-night."

Then the shoutings at the Chair began again, all over the place:

"Go on! go on! Read! read some more! Read all you've got!"

"That's it--go on! We are winning eternal celebrity!"

A dozen men got up now and began to protest. They said that this farce was the work of some
abandoned joker, and was an insult to the whole community. Without a doubt these signatures
were all forgeries--

"Sit down! sit down! Shut up! You are confessing. We'll find your names in the lot."

"Mr. Chairman, how many of those envelopes have you got?"

The Chair counted.

"Together with those that have been already examined, there are nineteen."

A storm of derisive applause broke out.

"Perhaps they all contain the secret. I move that you open them all and read every signature
that is attached to a note of that sort--and read also the first eight words of the note."

"Second the motion!"

It was put and carried--uproariously. Then poor old Richards got up, and his wife rose and
stood at his side. Her head was bent down, so that none might see that she was crying. Her
husband gave her his arm, and so supporting her, he began to speak in a quavering voice:

"My friends, you have known us two--Mary and me--all our lives, and I think you have liked
us and respected us--"

The Chair interrupted him:

"Allow me. It is quite true--that which you are saying, Mr. Richards; this town DOES know you
two; it DOES like you; it DOES respect you; more--it honours you and LOVES you--"

Halliday's voice rang out:

"That's the hall-marked truth, too! If the Chair is right, let the house speak up and say it.
Rise! Now, then--hip! hip! hip!--all together!"

The house rose in mass, faced toward the old couple eagerly, filled the air with a snow-storm
of waving handkerchiefs, and delivered the cheers with all its affectionate heart.

The Chair then continued:

"What I was going to say is this: We know your good heart, Mr. Richards, but this is not a
time for the exercise of charity toward offenders. (Shouts of "Right! right!") I see your generous
purpose in your face, but I cannot allow you to plead for these men--"

"But I was going to--"

"Please take your seat, Mr. Richards. We must examine the rest of these notes--simple fairness
to the men who have already been exposed requires this. As soon as that has been done--I give
you my word for this--you shall be heard."

Many voices. "Right!--the Chair is right--no interruption can be permitted at this stage! Go
on!--the names! the names!--according to the terms of the motion!"

The old couple sat reluctantly down, and the husband whispered to the wife, "It is pitifully
hard to have to wait; the shame will be greater than ever when they find we were only going
to plead for OURSELVES."

Straightway the jollity broke loose again with the reading of the names.

"'You are far from being a bad man--' Signature, 'Robert J. Titmarsh.'"

'"You are far from being a bad man--' Signature, 'Eliphalet Weeks.'"

"'You are far from being a bad man--' Signature, 'Oscar B. Wilder.'"

At this point the house lit upon the idea of taking the eight words out of the Chairman's hands.
He was not unthankful for that. Thenceforward he held up each note in its turn and waited.
The house droned out the eight words in a massed and measured and musical deep volume of sound
(with a daringly close resemblance to a well-known church chant)--"You are f-a-r from being
a b-a-a-a-d man." Then the Chair said, "Signature, 'Archibald Wilcox.'" And so on, and so on,
name after name, and everybody had an increasingly and gloriously good time except the wretched
Nineteen. Now and then, when a particularly shining name was called, the house made the Chair
wait while it chanted the whole of the test-remark from the beginning to the closing words,
"And go to hell or Hadleyburg--try and make it the for-or-m-e-r!" and in these special cases
they added a grand and agonised and imposing "A-a-a-a-MEN!"

The list dwindled, dwindled, dwindled, poor old Richards keeping tally of the count, wincing
when a name resembling his own was pronounced, and waiting in miserable suspense for the time
to come when it would be his humiliating privilege to rise with Mary and finish his plea, which
he was intending to word thus: "... for until now we have never done any wrong thing, but have
gone our humble way unreproached. We are very poor, we are old, and, have no chick nor child
to help us; we were sorely tempted, and we fell. It was my purpose when I got up before to
make confession and beg that my name might not be read out in this public place, for it seemed
to us that we could not bear it; but I was prevented. It was just; it was our place to suffer
with the rest. It has been hard for us. It is the first time we have ever heard our name fall
from any one's lips--sullied. Be merciful--for the sake or the better days; make our shame
as light to bear as in your charity you can." At this point in his reverie Mary nudged him,
perceiving that his mind was absent. The house was chanting, "You are f-a-r," etc.

"Be ready," Mary whispered. "Your name comes now; he has read eighteen."

The chant ended.

"Next! next! next!" came volleying from all over the house.

Burgess put his hand into his pocket. The old couple, trembling, began to rise. Burgess fumbled
a moment, then said:

"I find I have read them all."

Faint with joy and surprise, the couple sank into their seats, and Mary whispered:

"Oh, bless God, we are saved!--he has lost ours--I wouldn't give this for a hundred of those
sacks!"

The house burst out with its "Mikado" travesty, and sang it three times with ever-increasing
enthusiasm, rising to its feet when it reached for the third time the closing line--

"But the Symbols are here, you bet!"

and finishing up with cheers and a tiger for "Hadleyburg purity and our eighteen immortal representatives
of it."

Then Wingate, the saddler, got up and proposed cheers "for the cleanest man in town, the one
solitary important citizen in it who didn't try to steal that money--Edward Richards."

They were given with great and moving heartiness; then somebody proposed that "Richards be
elected sole Guardian and Symbol of the now Sacred Hadleyburg Tradition, with power and right
to stand up and look the whole sarcastic world in the face."

Passed, by acclamation; then they sang the "Mikado" again, and ended it with--

"And there's ONE Symbol left, you bet!"

There was a pause; then--

A Voice. "Now, then, who's to get the sack?"

The Tanner (with bitter sarcasm). "That's easy. The money has to be divided among the eighteen
Incorruptibles. They gave the suffering stranger twenty dollars apiece--and that remark--each
in his turn--it took twenty-two minutes for the procession to move past. Staked the stranger--total
contribution, $360. All they want is just the loan back--and interest--forty thousand dollars
altogether."

Many Voices (derisively.) "That's it! Divvy! divvy! Be kind to the poor--don't keep them waiting!"

The Chair. "Order! I now offer the stranger's remaining document. It says: 'If no claimant
shall appear (grand chorus of groans), I desire that you open the sack and count out the money
to the principal citizens of your town, they to take it in trust (Cries of "Oh! Oh! Oh!"),
and use it in such ways as to them shall seem best for the propagation and preservation of
your community's noble reputation for incorruptible honesty (more cries)--a reputation to which
their names and their efforts will add a new and far-reaching lustre." (Enthusiastic outburst
of sarcastic applause.) That seems to be all. No--here is a postscript:

"'P.S.--CITIZENS OF HADLEYBURG: There IS no test-remark--nobody made one. (Great sensation.)
There wasn't any pauper stranger, nor any twenty-dollar contribution, nor any accompanying
benediction and compliment--these are all inventions. (General buzz and hum of astonishment
and delight.) Allow me to tell my story--it will take but a word or two. I passed through your
town at a certain time, and received a deep offence which I had not earned. Any other man would
have been content to kill one or two of you and call it square, but to me that would have been
a trivial revenge, and inadequate; for the dead do not SUFFER. Besides I could not kill you
all--and, anyway, made as I am, even that would not have satisfied me. I wanted to damage every
man in the place, and every woman--and not in their bodies or in their estate, but in their
vanity--the place where feeble and foolish people are most vulnerable. So I disguised myself
and came back and studied you. You were easy game. You had an old and lofty reputation for
honesty, and naturally you were proud of it--it was your treasure of treasures, the very apple
of your eye. As soon as I found out that you carefully and vigilantly kept yourselves and your
children OUT OF TEMPTATION, I knew how to proceed. Why, you simple creatures, the weakest of
all weak things is a virtue which has not been tested in the fire. I laid a plan, and gathered
a list of names. My project was to corrupt Hadleyburg the Incorruptible. My idea was to make
liars and thieves of nearly half a hundred smirchless men and women who had never in their
lives uttered a lie or stolen a penny. I was afraid of Goodson. He was neither born nor reared
in Hadleyburg. I was afraid that if I started to operate my scheme by getting my letter laid
before you, you would say to yourselves, 'Goodson is the only man among us who would give away
twenty dollars to a poor devil'--and then you might not bite at my bait. But heaven took Goodson;
then I knew I was safe, and I set my trap and baited it. It may be that I shall not catch all
the men to whom I mailed the pretended test-secret, but I shall catch the most of them, if
I know Hadleyburg nature. (Voices. "Right--he got every last one of them.") I believe they
will even steal ostensible GAMBLE-money, rather than miss, poor, tempted, and mistrained fellows.
I am hoping to eternally and everlastingly squelch your vanity and give Hadleyburg a new renown--one
that will STICK--and spread far. If I have succeeded, open the sack and summon the Committee
on Propagation and Preservation of the Hadleyburg Reputation.'"

A Cyclone of Voices. "Open it! Open it! The Eighteen to the front! Committee on Propagation
of the Tradition! Forward--the Incorruptibles!"

The Chair ripped the sack wide, and gathered up a handful of bright, broad, yellow coins, shook
them together, then examined them.

"Friends, they are only gilded disks of lead!"

There was a crashing outbreak of delight over this news, and when the noise had subsided, the
tanner called out:

"By right of apparent seniority in this business, Mr. Wilson is Chairman of the Committee on
Propagation of the Tradition. I suggest that he step forward on behalf of his pals, and receive
in trust the money."

A Hundred Voices. "Wilson! Wilson! Wilson! Speech! Speech!"

Wilson (in a voice trembling with anger). "You will allow me to say, and without apologies
for my language, DAMN the money!"

A Voice. "Oh, and him a Baptist!"

A Voice. "Seventeen Symbols left! Step up, gentlemen, and assume your trust!"

There was a pause--no response.

The Saddler. "Mr. Chairman, we've got ONE clean man left, anyway, out of the late aristocracy;
and he needs money, and deserves it. I move that you appoint Jack Halliday to get up there
and auction off that sack of gilt twenty-dollar pieces, and give the result to the right man--the
man whom Hadleyburg delights to honour--Edward Richards."

This was received with great enthusiasm, the dog taking a hand again; the saddler started the
bids at a dollar, the Brixton folk and Barnum's representative fought hard for it, the people
cheered every jump that the bids made, the excitement climbed moment by moment higher and higher,
the bidders got on their mettle and grew steadily more and more daring, more and more determined,
the jumps went from a dollar up to five, then to ten, then to twenty, then fifty, then to a
hundred, then--

At the beginning of the auction Richards whispered in distress to his wife: "Oh, Mary, can
we allow it? It--it--you see, it is an honour--reward, a testimonial to purity of character,
and--and--can we allow it? Hadn't I better get up and--Oh, Mary, what ought we to do?--what
do you think we--" (Halliday's voice. "Fifteen I'm bid!--fifteen for the sack!--twenty!--ah,
thanks!--thirty--thanks again! Thirty, thirty, thirty!--do I hear forty?--forty it is! Keep
the ball rolling, gentlemen, keep it rolling!--fifty!--thanks, noble Roman!--going at fifty,
fifty, fifty!--seventy!--ninety!--splendid!--a hundred!--pile it up, pile it up!--hundred and
twenty--forty!--just in time!--hundred and fifty!--Two hundred!--superb! Do I hear two h--thanks!--two
hundred and fifty!--")

"It is another temptation, Edward--I'm all in a tremble--but, oh, we've escaped one temptation,
and that ought to warn us, to--("Six did I hear?--thanks!--six fifty, six f--SEVEN hundred!")
And yet, Edward, when you think--nobody susp--("Eight hundred dollars!--hurrah!--make it nine!--Mr.
Parsons, did I hear you say--thanks!--nine!--this noble sack of virgin lead going at only nine
hundred dollars, gilding and all--come! do I hear--a thousand!--gratefully yours!--did some
one say eleven?--a sack which is going to be the most celebrated in the whole Uni--") Oh, Edward
(beginning to sob), we are so poor!--but--but--do as you think best--do as you think best."

Edward fell--that is, he sat still; sat with a conscience which was not satisfied, but which
was overpowered by circumstances.

Meantime a stranger, who looked like an amateur detective gotten up as an impossible English
earl, had been watching the evening's proceedings with manifest interest, and with a contented
expression in his face; and he had been privately commenting to himself. He was now soliloquising
somewhat like this: 'None of the Eighteen are bidding; that is not satisfactory; I must change
that--the dramatic unities require it; they must buy the sack they tried to steal; they must
pay a heavy price, too--some of them are rich. And another thing, when I make a mistake in
Hadleyburg nature the man that puts that error upon me is entitled to a high honorarium, and
some one must pay. This poor old Richards has brought my judgment to shame; he is an honest
man:--I don't understand it, but I acknowledge it. Yes, he saw my deuces--AND with a straight
flush, and by rights the pot is his. And it shall be a jack-pot, too, if I can manage it. He
disappointed me, but let that pass.'

He was watching the bidding. At a thousand, the market broke: the prices tumbled swiftly. He
waited--and still watched. One competitor dropped out; then another, and another. He put in
a bid or two now. When the bids had sunk to ten dollars, he added a five; some one raised him
a three; he waited a moment, then flung in a fifty-dollar jump, and the sack was his--at $1,282.
The house broke out in cheers--then stopped; for he was on his feet, and had lifted his hand.
He began to speak.

"I desire to say a word, and ask a favour. I am a speculator in rarities, and I have dealings
with persons interested in numismatics all over the world. I can make a profit on this purchase,
just as it stands; but there is a way, if I can get your approval, whereby I can make every
one of these leaden twenty-dollar pieces worth its face in gold, and perhaps more. Grant me
that approval, and I will give part of my gains to your Mr. Richards, whose invulnerable probity
you have so justly and so cordially recognised tonight; his share shall be ten thousand dollars,
and I will hand him the money to-morrow. (Great applause from the house. But the "invulnerable
probity" made the Richardses blush prettily; however, it went for modesty, and did no harm.)
If you will pass my proposition by a good majority--I would like a two-thirds vote--I will
regard that as the town's consent, and that is all I ask. Rarities are always helped by any
device which will rouse curiosity and compel remark. Now if I may have your permission to stamp
upon the faces of each of these ostensible coins the names of the eighteen gentlemen who--"

Nine-tenths of the audience were on their feet in a moment--dog and all--and the proposition
was carried with a whirlwind of approving applause and laughter.

They sat down, and all the Symbols except "Dr." Clay Harkness got up, violently protesting
against the proposed outrage, and threatening to--

"I beg you not to threaten me," said the stranger calmly. "I know my legal rights, and am not
accustomed to being frightened at bluster." (Applause.) He sat down. "Dr." Harkness saw an
opportunity here. He was one of the two very rich men of the place, and Pinkerton was the other.
Harkness was proprietor of a mint; that is to say, a popular patent medicine. He was running
for the Legislature on one ticket, and Pinkerton on the other. It was a close race and a hot
one, and getting hotter every day. Both had strong appetites for money; each had bought a great
tract of land, with a purpose; there was going to be a new railway, and each wanted to be in
the Legislature and help locate the route to his own advantage; a single vote might make the
decision, and with it two or three fortunes. The stake was large, and Harkness was a daring
speculator. He was sitting close to the stranger. He leaned over while one or another of the
other Symbols was entertaining the house with protests and appeals, and asked, in a whisper,

"What is your price for the sack?"

"Forty thousand dollars."

"I'll give you twenty."

"No."

"Twenty-five."

"No."

"Say thirty."

"The price is forty thousand dollars; not a penny less."

"All right, I'll give it. I will come to the hotel at ten in the morning. I don't want it known;
will see you privately."

"Very good." Then the stranger got up and said to the house:

"I find it late. The speeches of these gentlemen are not without merit, not without interest,
not without grace; yet if I may be excused I will take my leave. I thank you for the great
favour which you have shown me in granting my petition. I ask the Chair to keep the sack for
me until to-morrow, and to hand these three five-hundred-dollar notes to Mr. Richards." They
were passed up to the Chair.

"At nine I will call for the sack, and at eleven will deliver the rest of the ten thousand
to Mr. Richards in person at his home. Good-night."

Then he slipped out, and left the audience making a vast noise, which was composed of a mixture
of cheers, the "Mikado" song, dog-disapproval, and the chant, "You are f-a-r from being a b-a-a-d
man--a-a-a a-men!"

 IV

 At home the Richardses had to endure congratulations and compliments
until midnight. Then they were left to themselves. They looked a little
sad, and they sat silent and thinking. Finally Mary sighed and said:

"Do you think we are to blame, Edward--MUCH to blame?" and her eyes wandered to the accusing
triplet of big bank-notes lying on the table, where the congratulators had been gloating over
them and reverently fingering them. Edward did not answer at once; then he brought out a sigh
and said, hesitatingly:

"We--we couldn't help it, Mary. It--well it was ordered. ALL things are."

Mary glanced up and looked at him steadily, but he didn't return the look. Presently she said:

"I thought congratulations and praises always tasted good. But--it seems to me, now--Edward?"

"Well?"

"Are you going to stay in the bank?"

"N--no."

"Resign?"

"In the morning--by note."

"It does seem best."

Richards bowed his head in his hands and muttered:

"Before I was not afraid to let oceans of people's money pour through my hands, but--Mary,
I am so tired, so tired--"

"We will go to bed."

At nine in the morning the stranger called for the sack and took it to the hotel in a cab.
At ten Harkness had a talk with him privately. The stranger asked for and got five cheques
on a metropolitan bank--drawn to "Bearer,"--four for $1,500 each, and one for $34,000. He put
one of the former in his pocket-book, and the remainder, representing $38,500, he put in an
envelope, and with these he added a note which he wrote after Harkness was gone. At eleven
he called at the Richards' house and knocked. Mrs. Richards peeped through the shutters, then
went and received the envelope, and the stranger disappeared without a word. She came back
flushed and a little unsteady on her legs, and gasped out:

"I am sure I recognised him! Last night it seemed to me that maybe I had seen him somewhere
before."

"He is the man that brought the sack here?"

"I am almost sure of it."

"Then he is the ostensible Stephenson too, and sold every important citizen in this town with
his bogus secret. Now if he has sent cheques instead of money, we are sold too, after we thought
we had escaped. I was beginning to feel fairly comfortable once more, after my night's rest,
but the look of that envelope makes me sick. It isn't fat enough; $8,500 in even the largest
bank-notes makes more bulk than that."

"Edward, why do you object to cheques?"

"Cheques signed by Stephenson! I am resigned to take the $8,500 if it could come in bank-notes--for
it does seem that it was so ordered, Mary--but I have never had much courage, and I have not
the pluck to try to market a cheque signed with that disastrous name. It would be a trap. That
man tried to catch me; we escaped somehow or other; and now he is trying a new way. If it is
cheques--"

"Oh, Edward, it is TOO bad!" And she held up the cheques and began to cry.

"Put them in the fire! quick! we mustn't be tempted. It is a trick to make the world laugh
at US, along with the rest, and--Give them to ME, since you can't do it!" He snatched them
and tried to hold his grip till he could get to the stove; but he was human, he was a cashier,
and he stopped a moment to make sure of the signature. Then he came near to fainting.

"Fan me, Mary, fan me! They are the same as gold!"

"Oh, how lovely, Edward! Why?"

"Signed by Harkness. What can the mystery of that be, Mary?"

"Edward, do you think--"

"Look here--look at this! Fifteen--fifteen--fifteen--thirty-four. Thirty-eight thousand five
hundred! Mary, the sack isn't worth twelve dollars, and Harkness--apparently--has paid about
par for it."

"And does it all come to us, do you think--instead of the ten thousand?"

"Why, it looks like it. And the cheques are made to 'Bearer,' too."

"Is that good, Edward? What is it for?"

"A hint to collect them at some distant bank, I reckon. Perhaps Harkness doesn't want the matter
known. What is that--a note?"

"Yes. It was with the cheques."

It was in the "Stephenson" handwriting, but there was no signature. It said:

 "I am a disappointed man.  Your honesty is beyond the reach of
temptation. I had a different idea about it, but I wronged you in that,
and I beg pardon, and do it sincerely. I honour you--and that is sincere
too. This town is not worthy to kiss the hem of your garment. Dear sir,
I made a square bet with myself that there were nineteen debauchable men
in your self-righteous community. I have lost. Take the whole pot, you
are entitled to it."

 Richards drew a deep sigh, and said:

"It seems written with fire--it burns so. Mary--I am miserable again."

"I, too. Ah, dear, I wish--"

"To think, Mary--he BELIEVES in me."

"Oh, don't, Edward--I can't bear it."

"If those beautiful words were deserved, Mary--and God knows I believed I deserved them once--I
think I could give the forty thousand dollars for them. And I would put that paper away, as
representing more than gold and jewels, and keep it always. But now--We could not live in the
shadow of its accusing presence, Mary."

He put it in the fire.

A messenger arrived and delivered an envelope. Richards took from it a note and read it; it
was from Burgess:

 "You saved me, in a difficult time.  I saved you last night.  It was at
cost of a lie, but I made the sacrifice freely, and out of a grateful
heart. None in this village knows so well as I know how brave and good
and noble you are. At bottom you cannot respect me, knowing as you do of
that matter of which I am accused, and by the general voice condemned;
but I beg that you will at least believe that I am a grateful man; it
will help me to bear my burden. (Signed) 'BURGESS.'"

 "Saved, once more.  And on such terms!"  He put the note in the lire.
"I--I wish I were dead, Mary, I wish I were out of it all!"

"Oh, these are bitter, bitter days, Edward. The stabs, through their very generosity, are so
deep--and they come so fast!"

Three days before the election each of two thousand voters suddenly found himself in possession
of a prized memento--one of the renowned bogus double-eagles. Around one of its faces was stamped
these words: "THE REMARK I MADE TO THE POOR STRANGER WAS--" Around the other face was stamped
these: "GO, AND REFORM. (SIGNED) PINKERTON." Thus the entire remaining refuse of the renowned
joke was emptied upon a single head, and with calamitous effect. It revived the recent vast
laugh and concentrated it upon Pinkerton; and Harkness's election was a walk-over.

Within twenty-four hours after the Richardses had received their cheques their consciences
were quieting down, discouraged; the old couple were learning to reconcile themselves to the
sin which they had committed. But they were to learn, now, that a sin takes on new and real
terrors when there seems a chance that it is going to be found out. This gives it a fresh and
most substantial and important aspect. At church the morning sermon was of the usual pattern;
it was the same old things said in the same old way; they had heard them a thousand times and
found them innocuous, next to meaningless, and easy to sleep under; but now it was different:
the sermon seemed to bristle with accusations; it seemed aimed straight and specially at people
who were concealing deadly sins. After church they got away from the mob of congratulators
as soon as they could, and hurried homeward, chilled to the bone at they did not know what--vague,
shadowy, indefinite fears. And by chance they caught a glimpse of Mr. Burgess as he turned
a corner. He paid no attention to their nod of recognition! He hadn't seen it; but they did
not know that. What could his conduct mean? It might mean--it might--mean--oh, a dozen dreadful
things. Was it possible that he knew that Richards could have cleared him of guilt in that
bygone time, and had been silently waiting for a chance to even up accounts? At home, in their
distress they got to imagining that their servant might have been in the next room listening
when Richards revealed the secret to his wife that he knew of Burgess's innocence; next Richards
began to imagine that he had heard the swish of a gown in there at that time; next, he was
sure he HAD heard it. They would call Sarah in, on a pretext, and watch her face; if she had
been betraying them to Mr. Burgess, it would show in her manner. They asked her some questions--questions
which were so random and incoherent and seemingly purposeless that the girl felt sure that
the old people's minds had been affected by their sudden good fortune; the sharp and watchful
gaze which they bent upon her frightened her, and that completed the business. She blushed,
she became nervous and confused, and to the old people these were plain signs of guilt--guilt
of some fearful sort or other--without doubt she was a spy and a traitor. When they were alone
again they began to piece many unrelated things together and get horrible results out of the
combination. When things had got about to the worst Richards was delivered of a sudden gasp
and his wife asked:

"Oh, what is it?--what is it?"

"The note--Burgess's note! Its language was sarcastic, I see it now." He quoted: "'At bottom
you cannot respect me, KNOWING, as you do, of THAT MATTER OF which I am accused'--oh, it is
perfectly plain, now, God help me! He knows that I know! You see the ingenuity of the phrasing.
It was a trap--and like a fool, I walked into it. And Mary--!"

"Oh, it is dreadful--I know what you are going to say--he didn't return your transcript of
the pretended test-remark."

"No--kept it to destroy us with. Mary, he has exposed us to some already. I know it--I know
it well. I saw it in a dozen faces after church. Ah, he wouldn't answer our nod of recognition--he
knew what he had been doing!"

In the night the doctor was called. The news went around in the morning that the old couple
were rather seriously ill--prostrated by the exhausting excitement growing out of their great
windfall, the congratulations, and the late hours, the doctor said. The town was sincerely
distressed; for these old people were about all it had left to be proud of, now.

Two days later the news was worse. The old couple were delirious, and were doing strange things.
By witness of the nurses, Richards had exhibited cheques--for $8,500? No--for an amazing sum--$38,500!
What could be the explanation of this gigantic piece of luck?

The following day the nurses had more news--and wonderful. They had concluded to hide the cheques,
lest harm come to them; but when they searched they were gone from under the patient's pillow--vanished
away. The patient said:

"Let the pillow alone; what do you want?"

"We thought it best that the cheques--"

"You will never see them again--they are destroyed. They came from Satan. I saw the hell-brand
on them, and I knew they were sent to betray me to sin." Then he fell to gabbling strange and
dreadful things which were not clearly understandable, and which the doctor admonished them
to keep to themselves.

Richards was right; the cheques were never seen again.

A nurse must have talked in her sleep, for within two days the forbidden gabblings were the
property of the town; and they were of a surprising sort. They seemed to indicate that Richards
had been a claimant for the sack himself, and that Burgess had concealed that fact and then
maliciously betrayed it.

Burgess was taxed with this and stoutly denied it. And he said it was not fair to attach weight
to the chatter of a sick old man who was out of his mind. Still, suspicion was in the air,
and there was much talk.

After a day or two it was reported that Mrs. Richards's delirious deliveries were getting to
be duplicates of her husband's. Suspicion flamed up into conviction, now, and the town's pride
in the purity of its one undiscredited important citizen began to dim down and flicker toward
extinction.

Six days passed, then came more news. The old couple were dying. Richards's mind cleared in
his latest hour, and he sent for Burgess. Burgess said:

"Let the room be cleared. I think he wishes to say something in privacy."

"No!" said Richards; "I want witnesses. I want you all to hear my confession, so that I may
die a man, and not a dog. I was clean--artificially--like the rest; and like the rest I fell
when temptation came. I signed a lie, and claimed the miserable sack. Mr. Burgess remembered
that I had done him a service, and in gratitude (and ignorance) he suppressed my claim and
saved me. You know the thing that was charged against Burgess years ago. My testimony, and
mine alone, could have cleared him, and I was a coward and left him to suffer disgrace--"

"No--no--Mr. Richards, you--"

"My servant betrayed my secret to him--"

"No one has betrayed anything to me--" "--And then he did a natural and justifiable thing;
he repented of the saving kindness which he had done me, and he EXPOSED me--as I deserved--"

"Never!--I make oath--"

"Out of my heart I forgive him."

Burgess's impassioned protestations fell upon deaf ears; the dying man passed away without
knowing that once more he had done poor Burgess a wrong. The old wife died that night.

The last of the sacred Nineteen had fallen a prey to the fiendish sack; the town was stripped
of the last rag of its ancient glory. Its mourning was not showy, but it was deep.

By act of the Legislature--upon prayer and petition--Hadleyburg was allowed to change its name
to (never mind what--I will not give it away), and leave one word out of the motto that for
many generations had graced the town's official seal.

It is an honest town once more, and the man will have to rise early that catches it napping again.

MY FIRST LIE, AND HOW I GOT OUT OF IT

As I understand it, what you desire is information about 'my first lie, and how I got out of
it.' I was born in 1835; I am well along, and my memory is not as good as it was. If you had
asked about my first truth it would have been easier for me and kinder of you, for I remember
that fairly well. I remember it as if it were last week. The family think it was week before,
but that is flattery and probably has a selfish project back of it. When a person has become
seasoned by experience and has reached the age of sixty-four, which is the age of discretion,
he likes a family compliment as well as ever, but he does not lose his head over it as in the
old innocent days.

I do not remember my first lie, it is too far back; but I remember my second one very well.
I was nine days old at the time, and had noticed that if a pin was sticking in me and I advertised
it in the usual fashion, I was lovingly petted and coddled and pitied in a most agreeable way
and got a ration between meals besides.

It was human nature to want to get these riches, and I fell. I lied about the pin--advertising
one when there wasn't any. You would have done it; George Washington did it, anybody would
have done it. During the first half of my life I never knew a child that was able to rise about
that temptation and keep from telling that lie. Up to 1867 all the civilised children that
were ever born into the world were liars--including George. Then the safety-pin came in and
blocked the game. But is that reform worth anything? No; for it is reform by force and has
no virtue in it; it merely stops that form of lying, it doesn't impair the disposition to lie,
by a shade. It is the cradle application of conversion by fire and sword, or of the temperance
principle through prohibition.

To return to that early lie. They found no pin and they realised that another liar had been
added to the world's supply. For by grace of a rare inspiration a quite commonplace but seldom
noticed fact was borne in upon their understandings--that almost all lies are acts, and speech
has no part in them. Then, if they examined a little further they recognised that all people
are liars from the cradle onwards, without exception, and that they begin to lie as soon as
they wake in the morning, and keep it up without rest or refreshment until they go to sleep
at night. If they arrived at that truth it probably grieved them--did, if they had been heedlessly
and ignorantly educated by their books and teachers; for why should a person grieve over a
thing which by the eternal law of his make he cannot help? He didn't invent the law; it is
merely his business to obey it and keep still; join the universal conspiracy and keep so still
that he shall deceive his fellow-conspirators into imagining that he doesn't know that the
law exists. It is what we all do--we that know. I am speaking of the lie of silent assertion;
we can tell it without saying a word, and we all do it--we that know. In the magnitude of its
territorial spread it is one of the most majestic lies that the civilisations make it their
sacred and anxious care to guard and watch and propagate.

For instance. It would not be possible for a humane and intelligent person to invent a rational
excuse for slavery; yet you will remember that in the early days of the emancipation agitation
in the North the agitators got but small help or countenance from any one. Argue and plead
and pray as they might, they could not break the universal stillness that reigned, from pulpit
and press all the way down to the bottom of society--the clammy stillness created and maintained
by the lie of silent assertion--the silent assertion that there wasn't anything going on in
which humane and intelligent people were interested.

From the beginning of the Dreyfus case to the end of it all France, except a couple of dozen
moral paladins, lay under the smother of the silent-assertion lie that no wrong was being done
to a persecuted and unoffending man. The like smother was over England lately, a good half
of the population silently letting on that they were not aware that Mr. Chamberlain was trying
to manufacture a war in South Africa and was willing to pay fancy prices for the materials.

Now there we have instances of three prominent ostensible civilisations working the silent-assertion
lie. Could one find other instances in the three countries? I think so. Not so very many perhaps,
but say a billion--just so as to keep within bounds. Are those countries working that kind
of lie, day in and day out, in thousands and thousands of varieties, without ever resting?
Yes, we know that to be true. The universal conspiracy of the silent-assertion lie is hard
at work always and everywhere, and always in the interest of a stupidity or a sham, never in
the interest of a thing fine or respectable. Is it the most timid and shabby of all lies? It
seems to have the look of it. For ages and ages it has mutely laboured in the interest of despotisms
and aristocracies and chattel slaveries, and military slaveries, and religious slaveries, and
has kept them alive; keeps them alive yet, here and there and yonder, all about the globe;
and will go on keeping them alive until the silent-assertion lie retires from business--the
silent assertion that nothing is going on which fair and intelligent men are aware of and are
engaged by their duty to try to stop.

What I am arriving at is this: When whole races and peoples conspire to propagate gigantic
mute lies in the interest of tyrannies and shams, why should we care anything about the trifling
lies told by individuals? Why should we try to make it appear that abstention from lying is
a virtue? Why should we want to beguile ourselves in that way? Why should we without shame
help the nation lie, and then be ashamed to do a little lying on our own account? Why shouldn't
we be honest and honourable, and lie every time we get a chance? That is to say, why shouldn't
we be consistent, and either lie all the time or not at all? Why should we help the nation
lie the whole day long and then object to telling one little individual private lie in our
own interest to go to bed on? Just for the refreshment of it, I mean, and to take the rancid
taste out of our mouth.

Here in England they have the oddest ways. They won't tell a spoken lie--nothing can persuade
them. Except in a large moral interest, like politics or religion, I mean. To tell a spoken
lie to get even the poorest little personal advantage out of it is a thing which is impossible
to them. They make me ashamed of myself sometimes, they are so bigoted. They will not even
tell a lie for the fun of it; they will not tell it when it hasn't even a suggestion of damage
or advantage in it for any one. This has a restraining influence upon me in spite of reason,
and I am always getting out of practice.

Of course, they tell all sorts of little unspoken lies, just like anybody; but they don't notice
it until their attention is called to it. They have got me so that sometimes I never tell a
verbal lie now except in a modified form; and even in the modified form they don't approve
of it. Still, that is as far as I can go in the interest of the growing friendly relations
between the two countries; I must keep some of my self-respect--and my health. I can live on
a pretty low diet, but I can't get along on no sustenance at all.

Of course, there are times when these people have to come out with a spoken lie, for that is
a thing which happens to everybody once in a while, and would happen to the angels if they
came down here much. Particularly to the angels, in fact, for the lies I speak of are self-sacrificing
ones told for a generous object, not a mean one; but even when these people tell a lie of that
sort it seems to scare them and unsettle their minds. It is a wonderful thing to see, and shows
that they are all insane. In fact, it is a country which is full of the most interesting superstitions.

I have an English friend of twenty-five years' standing, and yesterday when we were coming
down-town on top of the 'bus I happened to tell him a lie--a modified one, of course; a half-breed,
a mulatto; I can't seem to tell any other kind now, the market is so flat. I was explaining
to him how I got out of an embarrassment in Austria last year. I do not know what might have
become of me if I hadn't happened to remember to tell the police that I belonged to the same
family as the Prince of Wales. That made everything pleasant and they let me go; and apologised,
too, and were ever so kind and obliging and polite, and couldn't do too much for me, and explained
how the mistake came to be made, and promised to hang the officer that did it, and hoped I
would let bygones be bygones and not say anything about it; and I said they could depend on
me. My friend said, austerely:

'You call it a modified lie? Where is the modification?'

I explained that it lay in the form of my statement to the police. 'I didn't say I belonged
to the Royal Family; I only said I belonged to the same family as the Prince--meaning the human
family, of course; and if those people had had any penetration they would have known it. I
can't go around furnishing brains to the police; it is not to be expected.'

'How did you feel after that performance?'

'Well, of course I was distressed to find that the police had misunderstood me, but as long
as I had not told any lie I knew there was no occasion to sit up nights and worry about it.'

My friend struggled with the case several minutes, turning it over and examining it in his
mind, then he said that so far as he could see the modification was itself a lie, it being
a misleading reservation of an explanatory fact, and so I had told two lies instead of only one.

'I wouldn't have done it,' said he; 'I have never told a lie, and I should be very sorry to
do such a thing.'

Just then he lifted his hat and smiled a basketful of surprised and delighted smiles down at
a gentleman who was passing in a hansom.

'Who was that, G---?'

'I don't know.'

'Then why did you do that?'

'Because I saw he thought he knew me and was expecting it of me. If I hadn't done it he would
have been hurt. I didn't want to embarrass him before the whole street.'

'Well, your heart was right, G---, and your act was right. What you did was kindly and courteous
and beautiful; I would have done it myself; but it was a lie.'

'A lie? I didn't say a word. How do you make it out?'

'I know you didn't speak, still you said to him very plainly and enthusiastically in dumb show,
"Hello! you in town? Awful glad to see you, old fellow; when did you get back?" Concealed in
your actions was what you have called "a misleading reservation of an explanatory fact"--the
act that you had never seen him before. You expressed joy in encountering him--a lie; and you
made that reservation--another lie. It was my pair over again. But don't be troubled--we all
do it.'

Two hours later, at dinner, when quite other matters were being discussed, he told how he happened
along once just in the nick of time to do a great service for a family who were old friends
of his. The head of it had suddenly died in circumstances and surroundings of a ruinously disgraceful
character. If know the facts would break the hearts of the innocent family and put upon them
a load of unendurable shame. There was no help but in a giant lie, and he girded up his loins
and told it.

'The family never found out, G---?'

'Never. In all these years they have never suspected. They were proud of him and had always
reason to be; they are proud of him yet, and to them his memory is sacred and stainless and
beautiful.'

'They had a narrow escape, G---.'

'Indeed they had.'

'For the very next man that came along might have been one of these heartless and shameless
truth-mongers. You have told the truth a million times in your life, G---, but that one golden
lie atones for it all. Persevere.'

Some may think me not strict enough in my morals, but that position is hardly tenable. There
are many kinds of lying which I do not approve. I do not like an injurious lie, except when
it injures somebody else; and I do not like the lie of bravado, nor the lie of virtuous ecstasy;
the latter was affected by Bryant, the former by Carlyle.

Mr. Bryant said, 'Truth crushed to earth will rise again.' I have taken medals at thirteen
world's fairs, and may claim to be not without capacity, but I never told as big a one as that.
Mr. Bryant was playing to the gallery; we all do it. Carlyle said, in substance, this--I do
not remember the exact words: 'This gospel is eternal--that a lie shall not live.' I have a
reverent affection for Carlyle's books, and have read his 'Revelation' eight times; and so
I prefer to think he was not entirely at himself when he told that one. To me it is plain that
he said it in a moment of excitement, when chasing Americans out of his back-yard with brickbats.
They used to go there and worship. At bottom he was probably fond of it, but he was always
able to conceal it. He kept bricks for them, but he was not a good shot, and it is matter of
history that when he fired they dodged, and carried off the brick; for as a nation we like
relics, and so long as we get them we do not much care what the reliquary thinks about it.
I am quite sure that when he told that large one about a lie not being able to live he had
just missed an American and was over excited. He told it above thirty years ago, but it is
alive yet; alive, and very healthy and hearty, and likely to outlive any fact in history. Carlyle
was truthful when calm, but give him Americans enough and bricks enough and he could have taken
medals himself.

As regards that time that George Washington told the truth, a word must be said, of course.
It is the principal jewel in the crown of America, and it is but natural that we should work
it for all it is worth, as Milton says in his 'Lay of the Last Minstrel.' It was a timely and
judicious truth, and I should have told it myself in the circumstances. But I should have stopped
there. It was a stately truth, a lofty truth--a Tower; and I think it was a mistake to go on
and distract attention from its sublimity by building another Tower alongside of it fourteen
times as high. I refer to his remark that he 'could not lie.' I should have fed that to the
marines; or left it to Carlyle; it is just in his style. It would have taken a medal at any
European fair, and would have got an honourable mention even at Chicago if it had been saved
up. But let it pass; the Father of his Country was excited. I have been in those circumstances,
and I recollect.

With the truth he told I have no objection to offer, as already indicated. I think it was not
premeditated but an inspiration. With his fine military mind, he had probably arranged to let
his brother Edward in for the cherry tree results, but by an inspiration he saw his opportunity
in time and took advantage of it. By telling the truth he could astonish his father; his father
would tell the neighbours; the neighbours would spread it; it would travel to all firesides;
in the end it would make him President, and not only that, but First President. He was a far-seeing
boy and would be likely to think of these things. Therefore, to my mind, he stands justified
for what he did. But not for the other Tower; it was a mistake. Still, I don't know about that;
upon reflection I think perhaps it wasn't. For indeed it is that Tower that makes the other
one live. If he hadn't said 'I cannot tell a lie' there would have been no convulsion. That
was the earthquake that rocked the planet. That is the kind of statement that lives for ever,
and a fact barnacled to it has a good chance to share its immortality.

To sum up, on the whole I am satisfied with things the way they are. There is a prejudice against
the spoken lie, but none against any other, and by examination and mathematical computation
I find that the proportion of the spoken lie to the other varieties is as 1 to 22,894. Therefore
the spoken lie is of no consequence, and it is not worth while to go around fussing about it
and trying to make believe that it is an important matter. The silent colossal National Lie
that is the support and confederate of all the tyrannies and shams and inequalities and unfairnesses
that afflict the peoples--that is the one to throw bricks and sermons at. But let us be judicious
and let somebody else begin.

And then--But I have wandered from my text. How did I get out of my second lie? I think I got
out with honour, but I cannot be sure, for it was a long time ago and some of the details have
faded out of my memory. I recollect that I was reversed and stretched across some one's knee,
and that something happened, but I cannot now remember what it was. I think there was music;
but it is all dim now and blurred by the lapse of time, and this may be only a senile fancy.

THE ESQUIMAUX MAIDEN'S ROMANCE

'Yes, I will tell you anything about my life that you would like to know, Mr. Twain,' she said,
in her soft voice, and letting her honest eyes rest placidly upon my face, 'for it is kind
and good of you to like me and care to know about me.'

She had been absently scraping blubber-grease from her cheeks with a small bone-knife and transferring
it to her fur sleeve, while she watched the Aurora Borealis swing its flaming streamers out
of the sky and wash the lonely snow plain and the templed icebergs with the rich hues of the
prism, a spectacle of almost intolerable splendour and beauty; but now she shook off her reverie
and prepared to give me the humble little history I had asked for. She settled herself comfortably
on the block of ice which we were using as a sofa, and I made ready to listen.

She was a beautiful creature. I speak from the Esquimaux point of view. Others would have thought
her a trifle over-plump. She was just twenty years old, and was held to be by far the most
bewitching girl in her tribe. Even now, in the open air, with her cumbersome and shapeless
fur coat and trousers and boots and vast hood, the beauty of her face was at least apparent;
but her figure had to be taken on trust. Among all the guests who came and went, I had seen
no girl at her father's hospitable trough who could be called her equal. Yet she was not spoiled.
She was sweet and natural and sincere, and if she was aware that she was a belle, there was
nothing about her ways to show that she possessed that knowledge.

She had been my daily comrade for a week now, and the better I knew her the better I liked
her. She had been tenderly and carefully brought up, in an atmosphere of singularly rare refinement
for the polar regions, for her father was the most important man of his tribe and ranked at
the top of Esquimaux civilisation. I made long dog-sledge trips across the mighty ice floes
with Lasca--that was her name--and found her company always pleasant and her conversation agreeable.
I went fishing with her, but not in her perilous boat: I merely followed along on the ice and
watched her strike her game with her fatally accurate spear. We went sealing together; several
times I stood by while she and the family dug blubber from a stranded whale, and once I went
part of the way when she was hunting a bear, but turned back before the finish, because at
bottom I am afraid of bears.

However, she was ready to begin her story, now, and this is what she said:

'Our tribe had always been used to wander about from place to place over the frozen seas, like
the other tribes, but my father got tired of that, two years ago, and built this great mansion
of frozen snow-blocks--look at it; it is seven feet high and three or four times as long as
any of the others--and here we have stayed ever since. He was very proud of his house, and
that was reasonable, for if you have examined it with care you must have noticed how much finer
and completer it is than houses usually are. But if you have not, you must, for you will find
it has luxurious appointments that are quite beyond the common. For instance, in that end of
it which you have called the "parlour," the raised platform for the accommodation of guests
and the family at meals is the largest you have ever seen in any house--is it not so?'

'Yes, you are quite right, Lasca; it is the largest; we have nothing resembling it in even
the finest houses in the United States.' This admission made her eyes sparkle with pride and
pleasure. I noted that, and took my cue.

'I thought it must have surprised you,' she said. 'And another thing; it is bedded far deeper
in furs than is usual; all kinds of furs--seal, sea-otter, silver-grey fox, bear, marten, sable--every
kind of fur in profusion; and the same with the ice-block sleeping-benches along the walls
which you call "beds." Are your platforms and sleeping-benches better provided at home?'

'Indeed, they are not, Lasca--they do not begin to be.' That pleased her again. All she was
thinking of was the number of furs her aesthetic father took the trouble to keep on hand, not
their value. I could have told her that those masses of rich furs constituted wealth--or would
in my country--but she would not have understood that; those were not the kind of things that
ranked as riches with her people. I could have told her that the clothes she had on, or the
every-day clothes of the commonest person about her, were worth twelve or fifteen hundred dollars,
and that I was not acquainted with anybody at home who wore twelve-hundred dollar toilets to
go fishing in; but she would not have understood it, so I said nothing. She resumed:

'And then the slop-tubs. We have two in the parlour, and two in the rest of the house. It is
very seldom that one has two in the parlour. Have you two in the parlour at home?'

The memory of those tubs made me gasp, but I recovered myself before she noticed, and said
with effusion:

'Why, Lasca, it is a shame of me to expose my country, and you must not let it go further,
for I am speaking to you in confidence; but I give you my word of honour that not even the
richest man in the city of New York has two slop-tubs in his drawing-room.'

She clapped her fur-clad hands in innocent delight, and exclaimed:

'Oh, but you cannot mean it, you cannot mean it!'

'Indeed, I am in earnest, dear. There is Vanderbilt. Vanderbilt is almost the richest man in
the whole world. Now, if I were on my dying bed, I could say to you that not even he has two
in his drawing-room. Why, he hasn't even one--I wish I may die in my tracks if it isn't true.'

Her lovely eyes stood wide with amazement, and she said, slowly, and with a sort of awe in
her voice:

'How strange--how incredible--one is not able to realise it. Is he penurious?'

'No--it isn't that. It isn't the expense he minds, but--er--well, you know, it would look like
showing off. Yes, that is it, that is the idea; he is a plain man in his way, and shrinks from
display.'

'Why, that humility is right enough,' said Lasca, 'if one does not carry it too far--but what
does the place look like?'

'Well, necessarily it looks pretty barren and unfinished, but--'

'I should think so! I never heard anything like it. Is it a fine house--that is, otherwise?'

'Pretty fine, yes. It is very well thought of.'

The girl was silent awhile, and sat dreamily gnawing a candle-end, apparently trying to think
the thing out. At last she gave her head a little toss and spoke out her opinion with decision:

'Well, to my mind there's a breed of humility which is itself a species of showing off when
you get down to the marrow of it; and when a man is able to afford two slop-tubs in his parlour,
and doesn't do it, it may be that he is truly humble-minded, but it's a hundred times more
likely that he is just trying to strike the public eye. In my judgment, your Mr. Vanderbilt
knows what he is about.'

I tried to modify this verdict, feeling that a double slop-tub standard was not a fair one
to try everybody by, although a sound enough one in its own habitat; but the girl's head was
set, and she was not to be persuaded. Presently she said:

'Do the rich people, with you, have as good sleeping-benches as ours, and made out of as nice
broad ice-blocks?'

'Well, they are pretty good--good enough--but they are not made of ice-blocks.'

'I want to know! Why aren't they made of ice-blocks?'

I explained the difficulties in the way, and the expensiveness of ice in a country where you
have to keep a sharp eye on your ice-man or your ice-bill will weigh more than your ice. Then
she cried out:

'Dear me, do you buy your ice?'

'We most surely do, dear.'

She burst into a gale of guileless laughter, and said:

'Oh, I never heard of anything so silly! My! there's plenty of it--it isn't worth anything.
Why, there is a hundred miles of it in sight, right now. I wouldn't give a fish-bladder for
the whole of it.'

'Well, it's because you don't know how to value it, you little provincial muggings. If you
had it in New York in midsummer, you could buy all the whales in the market with it.'

She looked at me doubtfully, and said:

'Are you speaking true?'

'Absolutely. I take my oath to it.'

This made her thoughtful. Presently she said, with a little sigh:

'I wish I could live there.'

I had merely meant to furnish her a standard of values which she could understand; but my purpose
had miscarried. I had only given her the impression that whales were cheap and plenty in New
York, and set her mouth to watering for them. It seemed best to try to mitigate the evil which
I had done, so I said:

'But you wouldn't care for whale-meat if you lived there. Nobody does.'

'What!'

'Indeed they don't.'

'Why don't they?'

'Wel-l-l, I hardly know. It's prejudice, I think. Yes, that is it--just prejudice. I reckon
somebody that hadn't anything better to do started a prejudice against it, some time or other,
and once you get a caprice like that fairly going, you know it will last no end of time.'

'That is true--perfectly true,' said the girl, reflectively. 'Like our prejudice against soap,
here--our tribes had a prejudice against soap at first, you know.'

I glanced at her to see if she was in earnest. Evidently she was. I hesitated, then said, cautiously:

'But pardon me. They had a prejudice against soap? Had?'--with falling inflection.

'Yes--but that was only at first; nobody would eat it.'

'Oh--I understand. I didn't get your idea before.'

She resumed:

'It was just a prejudice. The first time soap came here from the foreigners, nobody liked it;
but as soon as it got to be fashionable, everybody liked it, and now everybody has it that
can afford it. Are you fond of it?'

'Yes, indeed; I should die if I couldn't have it--especially here. Do you like it?'

'I just adore it! Do you like candles?'

'I regard them as an absolute necessity. Are you fond of them?'

Her eyes fairly danced, and she exclaimed:

'Oh! Don't mention it! Candles!--and soap!--'

'And fish-interiors!--'

'And train-oil--'

'And slush!--'

'And whale-blubber!--'

'And carrion! and sour-krout! and beeswax! and tar! and turpentine! and molasses! and--'

'Don't--oh, don't--I shall expire with ecstasy!--'

'And then serve it all up in a slush-bucket, and invite the neighbours and sail in!'

But this vision of an ideal feast was too much for her, and she swooned away, poor thing. I
rubbed snow in her face and brought her to, and after a while got her excitement cooled down.
By-and-by she drifted into her story again:

'So we began to live here in the fine house. But I was not happy. The reason was this: I was
born for love: for me there could be no true happiness without it. I wanted to be loved for
myself alone. I wanted an idol, and I wanted to be my idol's idol; nothing less than mutual
idolatry would satisfy my fervent nature. I had suitors in plenty--in over-plenty, indeed--but
in each and every case they had a fatal defect: sooner or later I discovered that defect--not
one of them failed to betray it--it was not me they wanted, but my wealth.'

'Your wealth?'

'Yes; for my father is much the richest man in this tribe--or in any tribe in these regions.'

I wondered what her father's wealth consisted of. It couldn't be the house--anybody could build
its mate. It couldn't be the furs--they were not valued. It couldn't be the sledge, the dogs,
the harpoons, the boat, the bone fish-hooks and needles, and such things--no, these were not
wealth. Then what could it be that made this man so rich and brought this swarm of sordid suitors
to his house? It seemed to me, finally, that the best way to find out would be to ask. So I
did it. The girl was so manifestly gratified by the question that I saw she had been aching
to have me ask it. She was suffering fully as much to tell as I was to know. She snuggled confidentially
up to me and said:

'Guess how much he is worth--you never can!'

I pretended to consider the matter deeply, she watching my anxious and labouring countenance
with a devouring and delighted interest; and when, at last, I gave it up and begged her to
appease my longing by telling me herself how much this polar Vanderbilt was worth, she put
her mouth close to my ear and whispered, impressively:

'Twenty-two fish-hooks--not bone, but foreign--made out of real iron!'

Then she sprang back dramatically, to observe the effect. I did my level best not to disappoint
her. I turned pale and murmured:

'Great Scott!'

'It's as true as you live, Mr. Twain!'

'Lasca, you are deceiving me--you cannot mean it.'

She was frightened and troubled. She exclaimed:

'Mr. Twain, every word of it is true--every word. You believe me--you do believe me, now don't
you? Say you believe me--do say you believe me!'

'I--well, yes, I do--I am trying to. But it was all so sudden. So sudden and prostrating. You
shouldn't do such a thing in that sudden way. It--'

'Oh, I'm so sorry! If I had only thought--'

'Well, it's all right, and I don't blame you any more, for you are young and thoughtless, and
of course you couldn't foresee what an effect--'

'But oh, dear, I ought certainly to have known better. Why--'

'You see, Lasca, if you had said five or six hooks, to start with, and then gradually--'

'Oh, I see, I see--then gradually added one, and then two, and then--ah, why couldn't I have
thought of that!'

'Never mind, child, it's all right--I am better now--I shall be over it in a little while.
But--to spring the whole twenty-two on a person unprepared and not very strong anyway--'

'Oh, it was a crime! But you forgive me--say you forgive me. Do!'

After harvesting a good deal of very pleasant coaxing and petting and persuading, I forgave
her and she was happy again, and by-and-by she got under way with her narrative once more.
I presently discovered that the family treasury contained still another feature--a jewel of
some sort, apparently--and that she was trying to get around speaking squarely about it, lest
I get paralysed again. But I wanted to known about that thing, too, and urged her to tell me
what it was. She was afraid. But I insisted, and said I would brace myself this time and be
prepared, then the shock would not hurt me. She was full of misgivings, but the temptation
to reveal that marvel to me and enjoy my astonishment and admiration was too strong for her,
and she confessed that she had it on her person, and said that if I was sure I was prepared--and
so on and so on--and with that she reached into her bosom and brought out a battered square
of brass, watching my eye anxiously the while. I fell over against her in a quite well-acted
faint, which delighted her heart and nearly frightened it out of her, too, at the same time.
When I came to and got calm, she was eager to know what I thought of her jewel.

'What do I think of it? I think it is the most exquisite thing I ever saw.'

'Do you really? How nice of you to say that! But it is a love, now isn't it?'

'Well, I should say so! I'd rather own it than the equator.'

'I thought you would admire it,' she said. 'I think it is so lovely. And there isn't another
one in all these latitudes. People have come all the way from the open Polar Sea to look at
it. Did you ever see one before?'

I said no, this was the first one I had ever seen. It cost me a pang to tell that generous
lie, for I had seen a million of them in my time, this humble jewel of hers being nothing but
a battered old New York Central baggage check.

'Land!' said I, 'you don't go about with it on your person this way, alone and with no protection,
not even a dog?'

'Ssh! not so loud,' she said. 'Nobody knows I carry it with me. They think it is in papa's
treasury. That is where it generally is.'

'Where is the treasury?'

It was a blunt question, and for a moment she looked startled and a little suspicious, but I said:

'Oh, come, don't you be afraid about me. At home we have seventy millions of people, and although
I say it myself that shouldn't, there is not one person among them all but would trust me with
untold fish-hooks.'

This reassured her, and she told me where the hooks were hidden in the house. Then she wandered
from her course to brag a little about the size of the sheets of transparent ice that formed
the windows of the mansion, and asked me if I had ever seen their like at home, and I came
right out frankly and confessed that I hadn't, which pleased her more than she could find words
to dress her gratification in. It was so easy to please her, and such a pleasure to do it,
that I went on and said--

'Ah, Lasca, you are a fortune girl!--this beautiful house, this dainty jewel, that rich treasure,
all this elegant snow, and sumptuous icebergs and limitless sterility, and public bears and
walruses, and noble freedom and largeness and everybody's admiring eyes upon you, and everybody's
homage and respect at your command without the asking; young, rich, beautiful, sought, courted,
envied, not a requirement unsatisfied, not a desire ungratified, nothing to wish for that you
cannot have--it is immeasurable good-fortune! I have seen myriads of girls, but none of whom
these extraordinary things could be truthfully said but you alone. And you are worthy--worthy
of it all, Lasca--I believe it in my heart.'

It made her infinitely proud and happy to hear me say this, and she thanked me over and over
again for that closing remark, and her voice and eyes showed that she was touched. Presently
she said:

'Still, it is not all sunshine--there is a cloudy side. The burden of wealth is a heavy one
to bear. Sometimes I have doubted if it were not better to be poor--at least not inordinately
rich. It pains me to see neighbouring tribesmen stare as they pass by, and overhear them say,
reverently, one to another, "There--that is she--the millionaire's daughter!" And sometimes
they say sorrowfully, "She is rolling in fish-hooks, and I--I have nothing." It breaks my heart.
When I was a child and we were poor, we slept with the door open, if we chose, but now--now
we have to have a night-watchman. In those days my father was gentle and courteous to all;
but now he is austere and haughty and cannot abide familiarity. Once his family were his sole
thought, but now he goes about thinking of his fish-hooks all the time. And his wealth makes
everybody cringing and obsequious to him. Formerly nobody laughed at his jokes, they being
always stale and far-fetched and poor, and destitute of the one element that can really justify
a joke--the element of humour; but now everybody laughs and cackles at these dismal things,
and if any fails to do it my father is deeply displeased, and shows it. Formerly his opinion
was not sought upon any matter and was not valuable when he volunteered it; it has that infirmity
yet, but, nevertheless, it is sought by all and applauded by all--and he helps do the applauding
himself, having no true delicacy and a plentiful want of tact. He has lowered the tone of all
our tribe. Once they were a frank and manly race, now they are measly hypocrites, and sodden
with servility. In my heart of hearts I hate all the ways of millionaires! Our tribe was once
plain, simple folk, and content with the bone fish-hooks of their fathers; now they are eaten
up with avarice and would sacrifice every sentiment of honour and honesty to possess themselves
of the debasing iron fish-hooks of the foreigner. However, I must not dwell on these sad things.
As I have said, it was my dream to be loved for myself alone.

'At last, this dream seemed about to be fulfilled. A stranger came by, one day, who said his
name was Kalula. I told him my name, and he said he loved me. My heart gave a great bound of
gratitude and pleasure, for I had loved him at sight, and now I said so. He took me to his
breast and said he would not wish to be happier than he was now. We went strolling together
far over the ice-floes, telling all about each other, and planning, oh, the loveliest future!
When we were tired at last we sat down and ate, for he had soap and candles and I had brought
along some blubber. We were hungry and nothing was ever so good.

'He belonged to a tribe whose haunts were far to the north, and I found that he had never heard
of my father, which rejoiced me exceedingly. I mean he had heard of the millionaire, but had
never heard his name--so, you see, he could not know that I was the heiress. You may be sure
that I did not tell him. I was loved for myself at last, and was satisfied. I was so happy--oh,
happier than you can think!

'By-and-by it was towards supper time, and I led him home. As we approached our house he was
amazed, and cried out:

'"How splendid! Is that your father's?"

'It gave me a pang to hear that tone and see that admiring light in his eye, but the feeling
quickly passed away, for I loved him so, and he looked so handsome and noble. All my family
of aunts and uncles and cousins were pleased with him, and many guests were called in, and
the house was shut up tight and the rag lamps lighted, and when everything was hot and comfortable
and suffocating, we began a joyous feast in celebration of my betrothal.

'When the feast was over my father's vanity overcame him, and he could not resist the temptation
to show off his riches and let Kalula see what grand good-fortune he had stumbled into--and
mainly, of course, he wanted to enjoy the poor man's amazement. I could have cried--but it
would have done no good to try to dissuade my father, so I said nothing, but merely sat there
and suffered.

'My father went straight to the hiding-place in full sight of everybody, and got out the fish-hooks
and brought them and flung them scatteringly over my head, so that they fell in glittering
confusion on the platform at my lover's knee.

'Of course, the astounding spectacle took the poor lad's breath away. He could only stare in
stupid astonishment, and wonder how a single individual could possess such incredible riches.
Then presently he glanced brilliantly up and exclaimed:

'"Ah, it is you who are the renowned millionaire!"

'My father and all the rest burst into shouts of happy laughter, and when my father gathered
the treasure carelessly up as if it might be mere rubbish and of no consequence, and carried
it back to its place, poor Kulala's surprise was a study. He said:

'"Is it possible that you put such things away without counting them?"

'My father delivered a vain-glorious horse-laugh, and said:

'"Well, truly, a body may know you have never been rich, since a mere matter of a fish-hook
or two is such a mighty matter in your eyes."

'Kalula was confused, and hung his head, but said:

'"Ah, indeed, sir, I was never worth the value of the barb of one of those precious things,
and I have never seen any man before who was so rich in them as to render the counting of his
hoard worth while, since the wealthiest man I have ever known, till now, was possessed of but
three."

'My foolish father roared again with jejune delight, and allowed the impression to remain that
he was not accustomed to count his hooks and keep sharp watch over them. He was showing off,
you see. Count them? Why, he counted them every day!

'I had met and got acquainted with my darling just at dawn; I had brought him home just at
dark, three hours afterwards--for the days were shortening toward the six-months' night at
that time. We kept up the festivities many hours; then, at last, the guests departed and the
rest of us distributed ourselves along the walls on sleeping-benches, and soon all were steeped
in dreams but me. I was too happy, too excited, to sleep. After I had lain quiet a long, long
time, a dim form passed by me and was swallowed up in the gloom that pervaded the farther end
of the house. I could not make out who it was, or whether it was man or woman. Presently that
figure or another one passed me going the other way. I wondered what it all meant, but wondering
did no good; and while I was still wondering I fell asleep.

'I do not know how long I slept, but at last I came suddenly broad awake and heard my father
say in a terrible voice, "By the great Snow God, there's a fish-hook gone!" Something told
me that that meant sorrow for me, and the blood in my veins turned cold. The presentiment was
confirmed in the same instant: my father shouted, "Up, everybody, and seize the stranger!"
Then there was an outburst of cries and curses from all sides, and a wild rush of dim forms
through the obscurity. I flew to my beloved's help, but what could I do but wait and wring
my hands?--he was already fenced away from me by a living wall, he was being bound hand and
foot. Not until he was secured would they let me get to him. I flung myself upon his poor insulted
form and cried my grief out upon his breast while my father and all my family scoffed at me
and heaped threats and shameful epithets upon him. He bore his ill usage with a tranquil dignity
which endeared him to me more than ever, and made me proud and happy to suffer with him and
for him. I heard my father order that the elders of the tribe be called together to try my
Kalula for his life.

'"What!" I said, "before any search has been made for the lost hook?"

'"Lost hook!" they all shouted, in derision; and my father added, mockingly, "Stand back, everybody,
and be properly serious--she is going to hunt up that lost hook: oh, without doubt she will
find it!"--whereat they all laughed again.

'I was not disturbed--I had no fears, no doubts. I said:

'"It is for you to laugh now; it is your turn. But ours is coming; wait and see."

'I got a rag lamp. I thought I should find that miserable thing in one little moment; and I
set about that matter with such confidence that those people grew grace, beginning to suspect
that perhaps they had been too hasty. But alas and alas!--oh, the bitterness of that search!
There was deep silence while one might count his fingers ten or twelve times, then my heart
began to sink, and around me the mockings began again, and grew steadily louder and more assured,
until at last, when I gave up, they burst into volley after volley of cruel laughter.

'None will ever know what I suffered then. But my love was my support and my strength, and
I took my rightful place at my Kalula's side, and put my arm about his neck, and whispered
in his ear, saying:

'"You are innocent, my own--that I know; but say it to me yourself, for my comfort, then I
can bear whatever is in store for us."

'He answered:

'"As surely as I stand upon the brink of death at this moment, I am innocent. Be comforted,
then, O bruised heart; be at peace, O thou breath of my nostrils, life of my life!"

'"Now, then, let the elders come!"--and as I said the words there was a gathering sound of
crunching snow outside, and then a vision of stooping forms filing in at the door--the elders.

'My father formally accused the prisoner, and detailed the happenings of the night. He said
that the watchman was outside the door, and that in the house were none but the family and
the stranger. "Would the family steal their own property?" He paused. The elders sat silent
many minutes; at last, one after another said to his neighbour, "This looks bad for the stranger"--sorrowful
words for me to hear. Then my father sat down. O miserable, miserable me! At that very moment
I could have proved my darling innocent, but I did not know it!

'The chief of the court asked:

'"Is there any here to defend the prisoner?"

'I rose and said:

'"Why should he steal that hook, or any or all of them? In another day he would have been heir
to the whole!"

I stood waiting. There was a long silence, the steam from the many breaths rising about me
like a fog. At last one elder after another nodded his head slowly several times, and muttered,
"There is force in what the child has said." Oh, the heart-lift that was in those words!--so
transient, but, oh, so precious! I sat down.

'"If any would say further, let him speak now, or after hold his peace," said the chief of
the court.

'My father rose and said:

'"In the night a form passed by me in the gloom, going toward the treasury and presently returned.
I think, now, it was the stranger."

'Oh, I was like to swoon! I had supposed that that was my secret; not the grip of the great
Ice God himself could have dragged it out of my heart. The chief of the court said sternly
to my poor Kalula:

'"Speak!"

'Kalula hesitated, then answered:

'"It was I. I could not sleep for thinking of the beautiful hooks. I went there and kissed
them and fondled them, to appease my spirit and drown it in a harmless joy, then I put them
back. I may have dropped one, but I stole none."

'Oh, a fatal admission to make in such a place! There was an awful hush. I knew he had pronounced
his own doom, and that all was over. On every face you could see the words hieroglyphed: "It
is a confession!--and paltry, lame, and thin."

'I sat drawing in my breath in faint gasps--and waiting. Presently, I heard the solemn words
I knew were coming; and each word, as it came, was a knife in my heart:

'"It is the command of the court that the accused be subjected to the trial by water."

'Oh, curses be upon the head of him who brought "trial by water" to our land! It came, generations
ago, from some far country that lies none knows where. Before that our fathers used augury
and other unsure methods of trial, and doubtless some poor guilty creatures escaped with their
lives sometimes; but it is not so with trial by water, which is an invention by wiser men than
we poor ignorant savages are. By it the innocent are proved innocent, without doubt or question,
for they drown; and the guilty are proven guilty with the same certainty, for they do not drown.
My heart was breaking in my bosom, for I said, "He is innocent, and he will go down under the
waves and I shall never see him more."

'I never left his side after that. I mourned in his arms all the precious hours, and he poured
out the deep stream of his love upon me, and oh, I was so miserable and so happy! At last,
they tore him from me, and I followed sobbing after them, and saw them fling him into the sea--then
I covered my face with my hands. Agony? Oh, I know the deepest deeps of that word!

'The next moment the people burst into a shout of malicious joy, and I took away my hands,
startled. Oh, bitter sight--he was swimming! My heart turned instantly to stone, to ice. I
said, "He was guilty, and he lied to me!" I turned my back in scorn and went my way homeward.

'They took him far out to sea and set him on an iceberg that was drifting southward in the
great waters. Then my family came home, and my father said to me:

'"Your thief sent his dying message to you, saying, 'Tell her I am innocent, and that all the
days and all the hours and all the minutes while I starve and perish I shall love her and think
of her and bless the day that gave me sight of her sweet face.'" Quite pretty, even poetical!

'I said, "He is dirt--let me never hear mention of him again." And oh, to think--he was innocent
all the time!

'Nine months--nine dull, sad months--went by, and at last came the day of the Great Annual
Sacrifice, when all the maidens of the tribe wash their faces and comb their hair. With the
first sweep of my comb out came the fatal fish-hook from where it had been all those months
nestling, and I fell fainting into the arms of my remorseful father! Groaning, he said, "We
murdered him, and I shall never smile again!" He has kept his word. Listen; from that day to
this not a month goes by that I do not comb my hair. But oh, where is the good of it all now!'

So ended the poor maid's humble little tale--whereby we learn that since a hundred million
dollars in New York and twenty-two fish-hooks on the border of the Arctic Circle represent
the same financial supremacy, a man in straitened circumstances is a fool to stay in New York
when he can buy ten cents' worth of fish-hooks and emigrate.

CHRISTIAN SCIENCE AND THE BOOK OF MRS. EDDY

     'It is the first time since the dawn-days of Creation that a Voice
     has gone crashing through space with such placid and complacent
     confidence and command.'

I

This last summer, when I was on my way back to Vienna from the Appetite-Cure in the mountains,
I fell over a cliff in the twilight and broke some arms and legs and one thing or another,
and by good luck was found by some peasants who had lost an ass, and they carried me to the
nearest habitation, which was one of those large, low, thatch-roofed farm-houses, with apartments
in the garret for the family, and a cunning little porch under the deep gable decorated with
boxes of bright-coloured flowers and cats; on the ground floor a large and light sitting-room,
separated from the milch-cattle apartment by a partition; and in the front yard rose stately
and fine the wealth and pride of the house, the manure-pile. That sentence is Germanic, and
shows that I am acquiring that sort of mastery of the art and spirit of the language which
enables a man to travel all day in one sentence without changing cars.

There was a village a mile away, and a horse-doctor lived there, but there was no surgeon.
It seemed a bad outlook; mine was distinctly a surgery case. Then it was remembered that a
lady from Boston was summering in that village, and she was a Christian Science doctor and
could cure anything. So she was sent for. It was night by this time, and she could not conveniently
come, but sent word that it was no matter, there was no hurry, she would give me 'absent treatment'
now, and come in the morning; meantime she begged me to make myself tranquil and comfortable
and remember that there was nothing the matter with me. I thought there must be some mistake.

'Did you tell her I walked off a cliff seventy-five feet high?'

'Yes.'

'And struck a boulder at the bottom and bounced?'

'Yes.'

'And struck another one and bounced again?'

'Yes.'

'And struck another one and bounced yet again?'

'Yes.'

'And broke the boulders?'

'Yes.'

'That accounts for it; she is thinking of the boulders. Why didn't you tell her I got hurt, too?'

'I did. I told her what you told me to tell her: that you were now but an incoherent series
of compound fractures extending from your scalp-lock to your heels, and that the comminuted
projections caused you to look like a hat-rack.'

'And it was after this that she wished me to remember that there was nothing the matter with me?'

'Those were her words.'

'I do not understand it. I believe she has not diagnosed the case with sufficient care. Did
she look like a person who was theorising, or did she look like one who has fallen off precipices
herself and brings to the aid of abstract science the confirmation of personal experience?'

'Bitte?'

It was too large a contract for the Stubenmadchen's vocabulary; she couldn't call the hand.
I allowed the subject to rest there, and asked for something to eat and smoke, and something
hot to drink, and a basket to pile my legs in, and another capable person to come and help
me curse the time away; but I could not have any of these things.

'Why?'

'She said you would need nothing at all.'

'But I am hungry and thirsty, and in desperate pain.'

'She said you would have these delusions, but must pay no attention to them. She wants you
to particularly remember that there are no such things as hunger and thirst and pain.'

'She does, does she?'

'It is what she said.'

'Does she seem o be in full and functional possession of her intellectual plant, such as it is?'

'Bitte?'

'Do they let her run at large, or do they tie her up?'

'Tie her up?'

'There, good-night, run along; you are a good girl, but your mental Geschirr is not arranged
for light and airy conversation. Leave me to my delusions.'

II

It was a night of anguish, of course--at least I supposed it was, for it had all the symptoms
of it--but it passed at last, and the Christian Scientist came, and I was glad. She was middle-aged,
and large and bony and erect, and had an austere face and a resolute jaw and a Roman beak and
was a widow in the third degree, and her name was Fuller. I was eager to get to business and
find relief, but she was distressingly deliberate. She unpinned and unhooked and uncoupled
her upholsteries one by one, abolished the wrinkles with a flirt of her hand and hung the articles
up; peeled off her gloves and disposed of them, got a book out of her hand-bag, then drew a
chair to the bedside, descended into it without hurry, and I hung out my tongue. She said,
with pity but without passion:

'Return it to its receptacle. We deal with the mind only, not with its dumb servants.'

I could not offer my pulse, because the connection was broken; but she detected the apology
before I could word it, and indicated by a negative tilt of her head that the pulse was another
dumb servant that she had no use for. Then I thought I would tell her my symptoms and how I
felt, so that she would understand the case; but that was another inconsequence, she did not
need to know those things; moreover, my remark about how I felt was an abuse of language, a
misapplication of terms--

'One does not feel,' she explained; 'there is no such thing as feeling: therefore, to speak
of a non-existent thing as existent as a contradiction. Matter has no existence; nothing exists
but mind; the mind cannot feel pain, it can only imagine it.'

'But if it hurts, just the same--'

'It doesn't. A thing which is unreal cannot exercise the functions of reality. Pain is unreal;
hence pain cannot hurt.'

In making a sweeping gesture to indicate the act of shooing the illusion of pain out of the
mind, she raked her hand on a pin in her dress, said 'Ouch!' and went tranquilly on with her
talk. 'You should never allow yourself to speak of how you feel, nor permit others to ask you
how you are feeling: you should never concede that you are ill, nor permit others to talk about
disease or pain or death or similar non-existences in your preserve. Such talk only encourages
the mind to continue its empty imaginings.' Just at that point the Stubenmadchen trod on the
cat's tail, and the cat let fly a frenzy of cat-profanity. I asked with caution:

'Is a cat's opinion about pain valuable?'

'A cat has no opinion; opinions proceed from the mind only; the lower animals, being eternally
perishable, have not been granted mind; without mind opinion is impossible.'

'She merely imagined she felt a pain--the cat?'

'She cannot imagine a pain, for imagination is an effect of mind; without mind, there is no
imagination. A cat has no imagination.'

'Then she had a real pain?'

'I have already told you there is no such thing as real pain.'

'It is strange and interesting. I do wonder what was the matter with the cat. Because, there
being no such thing as real pain, and she not being able to imagine an imaginary thing, it
would seem that God in his Pity has compensated the cat with some kind of a mysterious emotion
useable when her tail is trodden on which for the moment joins cat and Christian in one common
brotherhood of--'

She broke in with an irritated--

'Peace! The cat feels nothing, the Christian feels nothing. Your empty and foolish imaginings
are profanation and blasphemy, and can do you an injury. It is wiser and better and holier
to recognise and confess that there is no such thing as disease or pain or death.'

'I am full of imaginary tortures,' I said, 'but I do not think I could be any more uncomfortable
if they were real ones. What must I do to get rid of them?'

'There is no occasion to get rid of them, since they do not exist. They are illusions propagated
by matter, and matter has no existence; there is no such thing as matter.'

'It sounds right and clear, but yet it seems in a degree elusive; it seems to slip through,
just when you think you are getting a grip on it.'

'Explain.'

'Well, for instance: if there is no such thing as matter, how can matter propagate things?'

In her compassion she almost smiled. She would have smiled if there were any such thing as a smile.

'It is quite simple,' she said; 'the fundamental propositions of Christian Science explain
it, and they are summarised in the four following self-evident propositions: 1. God is All
in all. 2. God is good. Good is Mind. 3. God, Spirit, being all, nothing is matter. 4. Life,
God, omnipotent Good, deny death, evil sin, disease. There--now you see.'

It seemed nebulous: it did not seem to say anything about the difficulty in hand--how non-existent
matter can propagate illusions. I said, with some hesitancy:

'Does--does it explain?'

'Doesn't it? Even if read backward it will do it.'

With a budding hope, I asked her to do it backward.

'Very well. Disease sin evil death deny Good omnipotent God life matter is nothing all being
Spirit God Mind is Good good is God all in All is God. There--do you understand now?

'It--it--well, it is plainer than it was before; still--'

'Well?'

'Could you try it some more ways?'

'As many as you like: it always means the same. Interchanged in any way you please it cannot
be made to mean anything different from what it means when put in any other way. Because it
is perfect. You can jumble it all up, and it makes no difference: it always comes out the way
it was before. It was a marvellous mind that produced it. As a mental tour de force it is without
a mate, it defies alike the simple, the concrete, and the occult.'

'It seems to be a corker.'

I blushed for the word, but it was out before I could stop it.

'A what?'

'A--wonderful structure--combination, so to speak, or profound thoughts--unthinkable ones--un--'

'It is true. Read backwards, or forwards, or perpendicularly, or at any given angle, these
four propositions will always be found to agree in statement and proof.'

'Ah--proof. Now we are coming at it. The statements agree; they agree with--with--anyway, they
agree; I noticed that; but what is it they prove--I mean, in particular?'

'Why, nothing could be clearer. They prove: 1. GOD--Principle, Life, Truth, Love, Soul, Spirit,
Mind. Do you get that?'

'I--well, I seem to. Go on, please.

'2. MAN--God's universal idea, individual, perfect, eternal. Is it clear?'

'It--I think so. Continue.'

'3. IDEA--An image in Mind; the immediate object of understanding. There it is--the whole sublime
Arcana of Christian Science in a nutshell. Do you find a weak place in it anywhere?'

'Well--no; it seems strong.'

'Very well. There is more. Those three constitute the Scientific Definition of Immortal Mind.
Next, we have the Scientific Definition of Mortal Mind. Thus. FIRST DEGREE: Depravity. 1. Physical--Passions
and appetites, fear, depraved will, pride, envy, deceit, hatred, revenge, sin, disease, death.'

'Phantasms, madam--unrealities, as I understand it.'

'Every one. SECOND DEGREE: Evil Disappearing. 1. Moral--Honesty, affection, compassion, hope,
faith, meekness, temperance. Is it clear?'

'Crystal.'

'THIRD DEGREE: Spiritual Salvation. 1. Spiritual--Faith, wisdom, power, purity, understanding,
health, love. You see how searchingly and co-ordinately interdependent and anthropomorphous
it all is. In this Third Degree, as we know by the revelations of Christian Science, mortal
mind disappears.'

'Not earlier?'

'No, not until the teaching and preparation for the Third Degree are completed.'

'It is not until then that one is enabled to take hold of Christian Science effectively, and
with the right sense of sympathy and kinship, as I understand you. That is to say, it could
not succeed during the process of the Second Degree, because there would still be remains of
mind left; and therefore--but I interrupted you. You were about to further explain the good
results proceeding from the erosions and disintegrations effected by the Third Degree. It is
very interesting: go on, please.'

'Yes, as I was saying, in this Third Degree mortal mind disappears. Science so reverses the
evidence before the corporeal human senses as to make this scriptural testimony true in our
hearts, "the last shall be first and the first shall be last," that God and His idea may be
to us--what divinity really is, and must of necessity be--all-inclusive.'

'It is beautiful. And with that exhaustive exactness your choice and arrangement of words confirms
and establishes what you have claimed for the powers and functions of the Third Degree. The
Second could probably produce only temporary absence of mind, it is reserved to the Third to
make it permanent. A sentence framed under the auspices of the Second could have a kind of
meaning--a sort of deceptive semblance of it--whereas it is only under the magic of the Third
that that defect would disappear. Also, without doubt, it is the Third Degree that contributes
another remarkable specialty to Christian Science: viz., ease and flow and lavishness of words,
and rhythm and swing and smoothness. There must be a special reason for this?'

'Yes--God-all, all-God, good Good, non-Matter, Matteration, Spirit, Bones, Truth.'

'That explains it.'

'There is nothing in Christian Science that is not explicable; for God is one, Time is one,
Individuality is one, and may be one of a series, one of many, as an individual man, individual
horse; whereas God is one, not one of a series, but one alone and without an equal.'

'These are noble thoughts. They make one burn to know more. How does Christian Science explain
the spiritual relation of systematic duality to incidental reflection?'

'Christian Science reverses the seeming relation of Soul and body--as astronomy reverses the
human perception of the movement of the solar system--and makes body tributary to Mind. As
it is the earth which is in motion, while the sun is at rest, though in viewing the sun rise
one finds it impossible to believe the sun not to be really rising, so the body is but the
humble servant of the restful Mind, though it seems otherwise to finite sense; but we shall
never understand this while we admit that soul is in body, or mind in matter, and that man
is included in non-intelligence. Soul is God, unchangeable and eternal; and man coexists with
and reflects Soul, for the All-in-all is the Altogether, and the Altogether embraces the All-one,
Soul-Mind, Mind-Soul, Love, Spirit, Bones, Liver, one of a series, alone and without an equal.'

(It is very curious, the effect which Christian Science has upon the verbal bowels. Particularly
the Third Degree; it makes one think of a dictionary with the cholera. But I only thought this;
I did not say it.)

'What is the origin of Christian Science? Is it a gift of God, or did it just happen?'

'In a sense, it is a gift of God. That is to say, its powers are from Him, but the credit of
the discovery of the powers and what they are for is due to an American lady.'

'Indeed? When did this occur?'

'In 1866. That is the immortal date when pain and disease and death disappeared from the earth
to return no more for ever. That is, the fancies for which those terms stand, disappeared.
The things themselves had never existed; therefore as soon as it was perceived that there were
no such things, they were easily banished. The history and nature of the great discovery are
set down in the book here, and--'

'Did the lady write the book?'

'Yes, she wrote it all, herself. The title is "Science and Health, with Key to the Scriptures"--for
she explains the Scriptures; they were not understood before. Not even by the twelve Disciples.
She begins thus--I will read it to you.'

But she had forgotten to bring her glasses.

'Well, it is no matter,' she said, 'I remember the words--indeed, all Christian Scientists
know the book by heart; it is necessary in our practice. We should otherwise make mistakes
and do harm. She begins thus: "In the year 1866 I discovered the Science of Metaphysical Healing,
and named it Christian Science." And she says--quite beautifully, I think--"Through Christian
Science, religion and medicine are inspired with a diviner nature and essence, fresh pinions
are given to faith and understanding, and thoughts acquaint themselves intelligently with God."
Her very words.'

'It is elegant. And it is a fine thought, too--marrying religion to medicine, instead of medicine
to the undertaker in the old way; for religion and medicine properly belong together, they
being the basis of all spiritual and physical health. What kind of medicine do you give for
the ordinary diseases, such as--'

'We never give medicine in any circumstances whatever! We--'

'But, madam, it says--'

'I don't care what it says, and I don't wish to talk about it.'

'I am sorry if I have offended, but you see the mention seemed in some way inconsistent, and--'

'There are no inconsistencies in Christian Science. The thing is impossible, for the Science
is absolute. It cannot be otherwise, since it proceeds directly from the All-in-all and the
Everything-in-Which, also Soul, Bones, Truth, one of a series, alone and without equal. It
is Mathematics purified from material dross and made spiritual.'

'I can see that, but--'

'It rests upon the immovable basis of an Apodictical Principle.'

The word flattened itself against my mind trying to get in, and disordered me a little, and
before I could inquire into its pertinency, she was already throwing the needed light:

'This Apodictical Principle is the absolute Principle of Scientific Mind-healing, the sovereign
Omnipotence which delivers the children of men from pain, disease, decay, and every ill that
flesh is heir to.'

'Surely not every ill, every decay?'

'Every one; there are no exceptions; there is no such thing as decay--it is an unreality, it
has no existence.'

'But without your glasses your failing eyesight does not permit you to--'

'My eyesight cannot fail; nothing can fail; the Mind is master, and the Mind permits no retrogression.'

She was under the inspiration of the Third Degree, therefore there could be no profit in continuing
this part of the subject. I shifted to other ground and inquired further concerning the Discoverer
of the Science.

'Did the discovery come suddenly, like Klondike, or after long study and calculation, like
America?'

'The comparisons are not respectful, since they refer to trivialities--but let it pass. I will
answer in the Discoverer's own words: "God had been graciously fitting me, during many years,
for the reception of a final revelation of the absolute Principle of Scientific Mind-healing."'

'Many years? How many?'

'Eighteen centuries!'

'All God, God-good, good-God, Truth, Bones, Liver, one of a series alone and without equal--it
is amazing!'

'You may well say it, sir. Yet it is but the truth. This American lady, our revered and sacred
founder, is distinctly referred to and her coming prophesied, in the twelfth chapter of the
Apocalypse; she could not have been more plainly indicated by St. John without actually mentioning
her name.'

'How strange, how wonderful!'

'I will quote her own words, for her "Key to the Scriptures:" "The twelfth chapter of the Apocalypse
has a special suggestiveness in connection with this nineteenth century." There--do you note
that? Think--note it well.'

'But--what does it mean?'

'Listen, and you will know. I quote her inspired words again: "In the opening of the Sixth
Seal, typical of six thousand years since Adam, there is one distinctive feature which has
special reference to the present age. Thus:

'"Revelation xii. 1.

'That is our Head, our Chief, our Discoverer of Christian Science--nothing can be plainer,
nothing surer. And note this:

'"Revelation xii. 6.

'That is Boston.'

'I recognise it, madam. These are sublime things and impressive; I never understood these passages
before; please go on with the--with the--proofs.'

'Very well.

'A little book, merely a little book--could words be modester? Yet how stupendous its importance!
Do you know what book that was?'

'Was it--'

'I hold it in my hand--"Christian Science"!'

'Love, Livers, Lights, Bones, Truth, Kidneys, one of a series, alone and without equal--it
is beyond imagination and wonder!'

'Hear our Founder's eloquent words: "Then will a voice from harmony cry, 'Go and take the little
book; take it and eat it up, and it shall make thy belly bitter; but it shall be in thy mouth
sweet as honey.' Mortal, obey the heavenly evangel. Take up Divine Science. Read it from beginning
to end. Study it, ponder it. It will be indeed sweet at its first taste, when it heals you;
but murmur not over Truth, if you find its digestion bitter." You now know the history of our
dear and holy Science, sir, and that its origin is not of this earth, but only its discovery.
I will leave the book with you and will go, now, but give yourself no uneasiness--I will give
you absent treatment from now till I go to bed.'

III

Under the powerful influence of the near treatment and the absent treatment together, my bones
were gradually retreating inward and disappearing from view. The good word took a brisk start,
now, and went on quite swiftly. My body was diligently straining and stretching, this way and
that, to accommodate the processes of restoration, and every minute or two I heard a dull click
inside and knew that the two ends of a fracture had been successfully joined. This muffled
clicking and gritting and grinding and rasping continued during the next three hours, and then
stopped--the connections had all been made. All except dislocations; there were only seven
of these: hips, shoulders, knees, neck; so that was soon over; one after another they slipped
into their sockets with a sound like pulling a distant cork, and I jumped up as good as new,
as to framework, and sent for the horse-doctor.

I was obliged to do this because I had a stomach-ache and a cold in the head, and I was not
willing to trust these things any longer in the hands of a woman whom I did not know, and in
whose ability to successfully treat mere disease I had lost all confidence. My position was
justified by the fact that the cold and the ache had been in her charge from the first, along
with the fractures, but had experienced not a shade of relief; and indeed the ache was even
growing worse and worse, and more and more bitter, now, probably on account of the protracted
abstention from food and drink.

The horse-doctor came, a pleasant man and full of hope and professional interest in the case.
In the matter of smell he was pretty aromatic, in fact quite horsey, and I tried to arrange
with him for absent treatment, but it was not in his line, so out of delicacy I did not press
it. He looked at my teeth and examined my hock, and said my age and general condition were
favourable to energetic measures; therefore he would give me something to turn the stomach-ache
into the botts and the cold in the head into the blind staggers; then he should be on his own
beat and would know what to do. He made up a bucket of bran-mash, and said a dipperful of it
every two hours, alternated with a drench with turpentine and axle-grease in it, would either
knock my ailments out of me in twenty-four hours or so interest me in other ways as to make
me forget they were on the premises. He administered my first dose himself, then took his leave,
saying I was free to eat and drink anything I pleased and in any quantity I liked. But I was
not hungry any more, and did not care for food.

I took up the 'Christian Scientist' book and read half of it, then took a dipperful of drench
and read the other half. The resulting experiences were full of interest and adventure. All
through the rumblings and grindings and quakings and effervescings accompanying the evolution
of the ache into the botts and the cold into the blind staggers I could note the generous struggle
for mastery going on between the mash and the drench and the literature; and often I could
tell which was ahead, and could easily distinguish the literature from the others when the
others were separate, though not when they were mixed; for when a bran-mash and an eclectic
drench are mixed together they look just like the Apodictical Principle out on a lark, and
no one can tell it from that. The finish was reached at last, the evolutions were complete
and a fine success; but I think that this result could have been achieved with fewer materials.
I believe the mash was necessary to the conversion of the stomach-ache into the boots, but
I think one could develop the blind staggers out of the literature by itself; also, that blind
staggers produced in this way would be of a better quality and more lasting than any produced
by the artificial processes of a horse-doctor.

For of all the strange, and frantic, and incomprehensible, and uninterpretable books which
the imagination of man has created, surely this one is the prize sample. It is written with
a limitless confidence and complacency, and with a dash and stir and earnestness which often
compel the effects of eloquence, even when the words do not seem to have any traceable meaning.
There are plenty of people who imagine they understand the book; I know this, for I have talked
with them; but in all cases they were people who also imagined that there were no such things
as pain, sickness, and death, and no realities in the world; nothing actually existent but
Mind. It seems to me to modify the value of their testimony. When these people talk about Christian
Science they do as Mrs. Fuller did; they do not use their own language, but the book's; they
pour out the book's showy incoherences, and leave you to find out later that they were not
originating, but merely quoting; they seem to know the volume by heart, and to revere it as
they would a Bible--another Bible, perhaps I ought to say. Plainly the book was written under
the mental desolations of the Third Degree, and I feel sure that none but the membership of
that Degree can discover meanings in it. When you read it you seem to be listening to a lively
and aggressive and oracular speech delivered in an unknown tongue, a speech whose spirit you
get but not the particulars; or, to change the figure, you seem to be listening to a vigorous
instrument which is making a noise it thinks is a tune, but which to persons not members of
the band is only the martial tooting of a trombone, and merely stirs the soul through the noise
but does not convey a meaning.

The book's serenities of self-satisfaction do almost seem to smack of a heavenly origin--they
have no blood-kin in the earth. It is more than human to be so placidly certain about things,
and so finely superior, and so airily content with one's performance. Without ever presenting
anything which may rightfully be called by the strong name of Evidence, and sometimes without
even mentioning a reason for a deduction at all, it thunders out the startling words, 'I have
Proved' so and so!

IV

A word upon a question of authorship. Not that quite; but, rather, a question of emendation
and revision. We know that the Bible-Annex was not written by Mrs. Eddy, but was handed down
to her eighteen hundred years ago by the Angel of the Apocalypse; but did she translate it
alone, or did she have help? There seems to be evidence that she had help. For there are four
several copyrights on it--1875, 1885, 1890, 1894. It did not come down in English, for in that
language it could not have acquired copyright--there were no copyright laws eighteen centuries
ago, and in my opinion no English language--at least up there. This makes it substantially
certain that the Annex is a translation. Then, was not the first translation complete? If it
was, on what grounds were the later copyrights granted?

I surmise that the first translation was poor; and that a friend or friends of Mrs. Eddy mended
its English three times, and finally got it into its present shape, where the grammar is plenty
good enough, and the sentences are smooth and plausible though they do not mean anything. I
think I am right in this surmise, for Mrs. Eddy cannot write English to-day, and this is argument
that she never could. I am not able to guess who did the mending, but I think it was not done
by any member of the Eddy Trust, nor by the editors of the 'Christian Science Journal,' for
their English is not much better than Mrs. Eddy's.

However, as to the main point: it is certain that Mrs. Eddy did not doctor the Annex's English
herself. Her original, spontaneous, undoctored English furnishes ample proof of this. Here
are samples from recent articles from her unappeasable pen; double columned with them are a
couple of passages from the Annex. It will be seen that they throw light. The italics are mine:

   1. 'What plague spot,          'Therefore the efficient
   or bacilli were (sic) gnawing  remedy is to destroy the
   (sic) at the heart of this     patient's unfortunate belief,
   metropolis... and bringing     by both silently and audibly
   it on bended knee?             arguing the opposite facts in
   Why, it was an institute that  regard to harmonious being
   had entered its vitals (sic)   representing man as
   that, among other things,      healthful instead of diseased,
   taught games,' et cetera. (P.  and showing that it is
   670, 'C.S.Journal,' article    impossible for matter to suffer,
   entitled 'A Narrative--by      to feel pain or heat, to be
   Mary Baker G. Eddy.')          thirsty or sick.' (P. 375, Annex.)
   2. 'Parks sprang up (sic)...
   electric street cars run       'Man is never sick; for
   (sic) merrily through several  Mind is not sick, and matter
   streets, concrete sidewalks    cannot be. A false belief
   and macadamised roads dotted   is both the tempter and the
   (sic) the place,' et cetera.   tempted, the sin and the
   (Ibid.)                        sinner, the disease and its
   3. 'Shorn (sic) of its         cause. It is well to be calm
   suburbs it had indeed little   in sickness; to be hopeful is
   left to admire, save to (sic)  still better; but to
   such as fancy a skeleton       understand that sickness is not
   above ground breathing (sic)   real, and that Truth can
   slowly through a barren (sic)  destroy it, is best of all, for
   breast.' (Ibid.)               it is the universal and perfect
                                  remedy.' (Chapter xii.,
                                  Annex.)

You notice the contrast between the smooth, plausible, elegant, addled English of the doctored
Annex and the lumbering, ragged, ignorant output of the translator's natural, spontaneous,
and unmedicated penwork. The English of the Annex has been slicked up by a very industrious
and painstaking hand--but it was not Mrs. Eddy's.

If Mrs. Eddy really wrote or translated the Annex, her original draft was exactly in harmony
with the English of her plague-spot or bacilli which were gnawing at the insides of the metropolis
and bringing its heart on bended knee, thus exposing to the eye the rest of the skeleton breathing
slowly through a barren breast. And it bore little or no resemblance to the book as we have
it now--now that the salaried polisher has holystoned all of the genuine Eddyties out of it.

Will the plague-spot article go into a volume just as it stands? I think not. I think the polisher
will take off his coat and vest and cravat and 'demonstrate over' it a couple of weeks and
sweat it into a shape something like the following--and then Mrs. Eddy will publish it and
leave people to believe that she did the polishing herself:

1. What injurious influence was it that was affecting the city's morals? It was a social club
which propagated an interest in idle amusements, disseminated a knowledge of games, et cetera.

2. By the magic of the new and nobler influences the sterile spaces were transformed into wooded
parks, the merry electric car replaced the melancholy 'bus, smooth concrete the tempestuous
plank sidewalk, the macadamised road the primitive corduroy, et cetera.

3. Its pleasant suburbs gone, there was little left to admire save the wrecked graveyard with
its uncanny exposures.

The Annex contains one sole and solitary humorous remark. There is a most elaborate and voluminous
Index, and it is preceded by this note:

'This Index will enable the student to find any thought or idea contained in the book.'

V

No one doubts--certainly not I--that the mind exercises a powerful influence over the body.
From the beginning of time, the sorcerer, the interpreter of dreams, the fortune-teller, the
charlatan, the quack, the wild medicine-man, the educated physician, the mesmerist, and the
hypnotist have made use of the client's imagination to help them in their work. They have all
recognised the potency and availability of that force. Physicians cure many patients with a
bread pill; they know that where the disease is only a fancy, the patient's confidence in the
doctor will make the bread pill effective.

Faith in the doctor. Perhaps that is the entire thing. It seems to look like it. In old times
the King cured the king's evil by the touch of the royal hand. He frequently made extraordinary
cures. Could his footman have done it? No--not in his own clothes. Disguised as the King, could
he have done it? I think we may not doubt it. I think we may feel sure that it was not the
King's touch that made the cure in any instance, but the patient's faith in the efficacy of
a King's touch. Genuine and remarkable cures have been achieved through contact with the relics
of a saint. Is it not likely that any other bones would have done as well if the substitution
had been concealed from the patient? When I was a boy, a farmer's wife who lived five miles
from our village, had great fame as a faith-doctor--that was what she called herself. Sufferers
came to her from all around, and she laid her hand upon them and said, 'Have faith--it is all
that is necessary,' and they went away well of their ailments. She was not a religious woman,
and pretended to no occult powers. She said that the patient's faith in her did the work. Several
times I saw her make immediate cures of severe toothaches. My mother was the patient. In Austria
there is a peasant who drives a great trade in this sort of industry and has both the high
and the low for patients. He gets into prison every now and then for practising without a diploma,
but his business is as brisk as ever when he gets out, for his work is unquestionably successful
and keeps his reputation high. In Bavaria there is a man who performed so many great cures
that he had to retire from his profession of stage-carpentering in order to meet the demand
of his constantly increasing body of customers. He goes on from year to year doing his miracles,
and has become very rich. He pretends to no religious helps, no supernatural aids, but thinks
there is something in his make-up which inspires the confidence of his patients, and that it
is this confidence which does the work and not some mysterious power issuing from himself.

Within the last quarter of a century, in America, several sects of curers have appeared under
various names and have done notable things in the way of healing ailments without the use of
medicines. There are the Mind Cure, the Faith Cure, the Prayer Cure, the Mental-Science Cure,
and the Christian-Science Cure; and apparently they all do their miracles with the same old
powerful instrument--the patient's imagination. Differing names, but no difference in the process.
But they do not give that instrument the credit; each sect claims that its way differs from
the ways of the others.

They all achieve some cures, there is no question about it; and the Faith Cure and the Prayer
Cure probably do no harm when they do no good, since they do not forbid the patient to help
out the cure with medicines if he wants to; but the others bar medicines, and claim ability
to cure every conceivable human ailment through the application of their mental forces alone.
They claim ability to cure malignant cancer, and other affections which have never been cured
in the history of the race. There would seem to be an element of danger here. It has the look
of claiming too much, I think. Public confidence would probably be increased if less were claimed.

I believe it might be shown that all the 'mind' sects except Christian Science have lucid intervals;
intervals in which they betray some diffidence, and in effect confess that they are not the
equals of the Deity; but if the Christian Scientist even stops with being merely the equal
of the Deity, it is not clearly provable by his Christian-Science Amended Bible. In the usual
Bible the Deity recognises pain, disease, and death as facts, but the Christian Scientist knows
better. Knows better, and is not diffident about saying so.

The Christian Scientist was not able to cure my stomach-ache and my cold; but the horse-doctor
did it. This convinces me that Christian Science claims too much. In my opinion it ought to
let diseases alone and confine itself to surgery. There it would have everything its own way.

The horse-doctor charged me thirty kreutzers, and I paid him; in fact I doubled it and gave
him a shilling. Mrs. Fuller brought in an itemised bill for a crate of broken bones mended
in two hundred and thirty-four places--one dollar per fracture.

'Nothing exists but Mind?'

'Nothing,' she answered. 'All else is substanceless, all else is imaginary.'

I gave her an imaginary cheque, and now she is suing me for substantial dollars. It looks inconsistent.

VI

Let us consider that we are all partially insane. It will explain us to each other, it will
unriddle many riddles, it will make clear and simple many things which are involved in haunting
and harassing difficulties and obscurities now.

Those of us who are not in the asylum, and not demonstrably due there, are nevertheless no
doubt insane in one or two particulars--I think we must admit this; but I think that we are
otherwise healthy-minded. I think that when we all see one thing alike, it is evidence that
as regards that one thing, our minds are perfectly sound. Now there are really several things
which we do all see alike; things which we all accept, and about which we do not dispute. For
instance, we who are outside of the asylum all agree that water seeks its level; that the sun
gives light and heat; that fire consumes; that fog is damp; that 6 times 6 are thirty-six;
that 2 from 10 leave eight; that 8 and 7 are fifteen. These are perhaps the only things we
are agreed about; but although they are so few, they are of inestimable value, because they
make an infallible standard of sanity. Whosoever accepts them we know to be substantially sane;
sufficiently sane; in the working essentials, sane. Whoever disputes a single one of them we
know to be wholly insane, and qualified for the asylum.

Very well, the man who disputes none of them we concede to be entitled to go at large--but
that is concession enough; we cannot go any further than that; for we know that in all matters
of mere opinion that same man is insane--just as insane as we are; just as insane as Shakespeare
was, just as insane as the Pope is. We know exactly where to put our finger upon his insanity;
it is where his opinion differs from ours.

That is a simple rule, and easy to remember. When I, a thoughtful and unbiased Presbyterian,
examine the Koran, I know that beyond any question every Mohammedan is insane; not in all things,
but in religious matters. When a thoughtful and unbiased Mohammedan examines the Westminster
Catechism, he knows that beyond any question I am spiritually insane. I cannot prove to him
that he is insane, because you never can prove anything to a lunatic--for that is a part of
his insanity and the evidence of it. He cannot prove to me that I am insane, for my mind has
the same defect that afflicts his. All democrats are insane, but not one of them knows it;
none but the republicans and mugwumps know it. All the republicans are insane, but only the
democrats and mugwumps can perceive it. The rule is perfect; in all matters of opinion our
adversaries are insane. When I look around me I am often troubled to see how many people are
mad. To mention only a few:

    The Atheist,                      The Shakers,
    The Infidel,                      The Millerites,
    The Agnostic,                     The Mormons,
    The Baptist,                      The Laurence Oliphant
    The Methodist,                      Harrisites,
    The Catholic, and the other       The Grand Lama's people,
      115 Christian sects, the        The Monarchists,
      Presbyterian excepted,          The Imperialists,
    The 72 Mohammedan sects,          The Democrats,
    The Buddhist,                     The Republicans (but not
    The Blavatsky-Buddhist,             the Mugwumps),
    The Nationalist,                  The Mind-Curists,
    The Confucian,                    The Faith-Curists,
    The Spiritualist,                 The Mental Scientists,
    The 2,000 East Indian             The Allopaths,
      sects,                          The Homeopaths,
    The Peculiar People,              The Electropaths,
    The Swedenborgians,

The--but there's no end to the list; there are millions of them! And all insane; each in his
own way; insane as to his pet fad or opinion, but otherwise sane and rational.

This should move us to be charitable toward one another's lunacies. I recognise that in his
special belief the Christian Scientist is insane, because he does not believe as I do; but
I hail him as my mate and fellow because I am as insane as he--insane from his point of view,
and his point of view is as authoritative as mine and worth as much. That is to say, worth
a brass farthing. Upon a great religious or political question the opinion of the dullest head
in the world is worth the same as the opinion of the brightest head in the world--a brass farthing.
How do we arrive at this? It is simple: The affirmative opinion of a stupid man is neutralised
by the negative opinion of his stupid neighbour--no decision is reached; the affirmative opinion
of the intellectual giant Gladstone is neutralised by the negative opinion of the intellectual
giant Cardinal Newman--no decision is reached. Opinions that prove nothing are, of course,
without value--any but a dead person knows that much. This obliges us to admit the truth of
the unpalatable proposition just mentioned above--that in disputed matters political and religious
one man's opinion is worth no more than his peer's, and hence it follows that no man's opinion
possesses any real value. It is a humbling thought, but there is no way to get around it: all
opinions upon these great subjects are brass-farthing opinions.

It is a mere plain simple fact--as clear and as certain as that 8 and 7 make fifteen. And by
it we recognise that we are all insane, as concerns those matters. If we were sane we should
all see a political or religious doctrine alike, there would be no dispute: it would be a case
of 8 and 7--just as it is in heaven, where all are sane and none insane. There there is but
one religion, one belief, the harmony is perfect, there is never a discordant note.

Under protection of these preliminaries I suppose I may now repeat without offence that the
Christian Scientist is insane. I mean him no discourtesy, and I am not charging--nor even imagining--that
he is insaner than the rest of the human race. I think he is more picturesquely insane that
some of us. At the same time, I am quite sure that in one important and splendid particular
he is saner than is the vast bulk of the race.

Why is he insane? I told you before: it is because his opinions are not ours. I know of no
other reason, and I do not need any other; it is the only way we have of discovering insanity
when it is not violent. It is merely the picturesqueness of his insanity that makes it more
interesting than my kind or yours. For instance, consider his 'little book'--the one described
in the previous article; the 'little book' exposed in the sky eighteen centuries ago by the
flaming angel of the Apocalypse and handed down in our day to Mrs. Mary Baker G. Eddy of New
Hampshire and translated by her, word for word, into English (with help of a polisher), and
now published and distributed in hundreds of editions by her at a clear profit per volume,
above cost, of 700 per cent.!--a profit which distinctly belongs to the angel of the Apocalypse,
and let him collect it if he can; a 'little book' which the C.S. very frequently calls by just
that name, and always inclosed in quotation-marks to keep its high origin exultantly in mind;
a 'little book' which 'explains' and reconstructs and new-paints and decorates the Bible and
puts a mansard roof on it and a lightning-rod and all the other modern improvements; a little
book which for the present affects to travel in yoke with the Bible and be friendly to it,
and within half a century will hitch it in the rear, and thenceforth travel tandem, itself
in the lead, in the coming great march of Christian Scientism through the Protestant dominions
of the planet.

Perhaps I am putting the tandem arrangement too far away; perhaps five years might be nearer
the mark than fifty; for a Viennese lady told me last night that in the Christian Science Mosque
in Boston she noticed some things which seem to me to promise a shortening of the interval;
on one side there was a display of texts from the New Testament, signed with the Saviour's
initials, 'J.C.;' and on the opposite side a display of texts from the 'little book' signed--with
the author's mere initials? No--signed with Mrs. Mary Baker G. Eddy's name in full. Perhaps
the Angel of the Apocalypse likes this kind of piracy. I made this remark lightly to a Christian
Scientist this morning, but he did not receive it lightly, but said it was jesting upon holy
things; he said there was no piracy, for the angel did not compose the book, he only brought
it--'God composed it.' I could have retorted that it was a case of piracy just the same; that
the displayed texts should be signed with the Author's initials, and that to sign them with
the translator's train of names was another case of 'jesting upon holy things.' However, I
did not say these things, for this Scientist was a large person, and although by his own doctrine
we have no substance, but are fictions and unrealities, I knew he could hit me an imaginary
blow which would furnish me an imaginary pain which could last me a week. The lady said that
in that Mosque there were two pulpits; in one of them was a man with the Former Bible, in the
other a woman with Mrs. Eddy's apocalyptic Annex; and from these books the man and the woman
were reading verse and verse about:

     'Hungry ones throng to hear the Bible read in connection with the
     text-book of Christian Science, "Science and Health, with Key to the
     Scriptures," by Mary Baker G.  Eddy.  These are our only preachers.
     They are the word of God.'--Christian Science Journal, October
     1898.

Are these things picturesque? The Viennese lady told me that in a chapel of the Mosque there
was a picture or image of Mrs. Eddy, and that before it burns a never-extinguished light. Is
that picturesque? How long do you think it will be before the Christian Scientist will be worshipping
that image and praying to it? How long do you think it will be before it is claimed that Mrs.
Eddy is a Redeemer, a Christ, or Christ's equal? Already her army of disciples speak of her
reverently as 'Our Mother.' How long will it be before they place her on the steps of the Throne
beside the Virgin--and later a step higher? First, Mary the Virgin and Mary the Matron; later,
with a change of Precedence, Mary the Matron and Mary the Virgin. Let the artist get ready
with his canvas and his brushes; the new Renaissance is on its way, and there will be money
in altar-canvases--a thousand times as much as the Popes and their Church ever spent on the
Old Masters; for their riches were as poverty as compared with what is going to pour into the
treasure-chest of the Christian-Scientist Papacy by-and-by, let us not doubt it. We will examine
the financial outlook presently and see what it promises.

Is it insanity to believe that Christian Scientism is destined to make the most formidable
show that any new religion has made in the world since the birth and spread of Mohammedanism,
and that within a century from now it may stand second to Rome only, in numbers and power in
Christendom?

If this is a wild dream it will not be easy to prove it is so just yet, I think. There seems
argument that it may come true. The Christian-Science 'boom' is not yet five years old; yet
already it has 500 churches and 1,000,000 members in America.

It has its start, you see, and it is a phenomenally good one. Moreover, it is latterly spreading
with a constantly accelerating swiftness. It has a better chance to grow and prosper and achieve
permanency than any other existing 'ism;' for it has more to offer than any other. The past
teaches us that, in order to succeed, a movement like this must not be a mere philosophy, it
must be a religion; also, that it must not claim entire originality, but content itself with
passing for an improvement on an existing religion, and show its hand later, when strong and
prosperous--like Mohammedanism.

Next, there must be money--and plenty of it.

Next, the power and authority and capital must be concentrated in the grip of a small and irresponsible
clique, with nobody outside privileged to ask questions or find fault.

Next, as before remarked, it must bait its hook with some new and attractive advantages over
the baits offered by the other religions.

A new movement equipped with some of these endowments--like spiritualism, for instance--may
count upon a considerable success; a new movement equipped with the bulk of them--like Mohammedanism,
for instance--may count upon a widely extended conquest. Mormonism had all the requisites but
one--it had nothing new and nothing valuable to bait with; and, besides, it appealed to the
stupid and the ignorant only. Spiritualism lacked the important detail of concentration of
money and authority in the hands of an irresponsible clique.

The above equipment is excellent, admirable, powerful, but not perfect. There is yet another
detail which is worth the whole of it put together--and more; a detail which has never been
joined (in the beginning of a religious movement) to a supremely good working equipment since
the world began, until now: a new personage to worship. Christianity had the Saviour, but at
first and for generations it lacked money and concentrated power. In Mrs. Eddy, Christian Science
possesses the new personage for worship, and in addition--here in the very beginning--a working
equipment that has not a flaw in it. In the beginning, Mohammedanism had no money; and it has
never had anything to offer its client but heaven--nothing here below that was valuable. In
addition to heaven hereafter, Christian Science has present health and a cheerful spirit to
offer--for cash--and in comparison with this bribe all other this-world bribes are poor and
cheap. You recognise that this estimate is admissible, do you not?

To whom does Bellamy's 'Nationalism' appeal? Necessarily to the few: people who read and dream,
and are compassionate, and troubled for the poor and the hard-driven. To whom does Spiritualism
appeal? Necessarily to the few; its 'boom' has lasted for half a century and I believe it claims
short of four millions of adherents in America. Who are attracted by Swedenborgianism and some
of the other fine and delicate 'isms?' The few again: Educated people, sensitively organised,
with superior mental endowments, who seek lofty planes of thought and find their contentment
there. And who are attracted by Christian Science? There is no limit; its field is horizonless;
its appeal is as universal as is the appeal of Christianity itself. It appeals to the rich,
the poor, the high, the low, the cultured, the ignorant, the gifted, the stupid, the modest,
the vain, the wise, the silly, the soldier, the civilian, the hero, the coward, the idler,
the worker, the godly, the godless, the freeman, the slave, the adult, the child; they who
are ailing, they who have friends that are ailing. To mass it in a phrase, its clientele is
the Human Race? Will it march? I think so.

VII

Remember its principal great offer: to rid the Race of pain and disease. Can it do it? In large
measure, yes. How much of the pain and disease in the world is created by the imaginations
of the sufferers, and then kept alive by those same imaginations? Four-fifths? Not anything
short of that I should think. Can Christian Science banish that four-fifths? I think so. Can
any other (organised) force do it? None that I know of. Would this be a new world when that
was accomplished? And a pleasanter one--for us well people, as well as for those fussy and
fretting sick ones? Would it seem as if there was not as much gloomy weather as there used
to be? I think so.

In the meantime would the Scientist kill off a good many patients? I think so. More than get
killed off now by the legalised methods? I will take up that question presently.

At present I wish to ask you to examine some of the Scientist's performances, as registered
in his magazine, 'The Christian Science Journal'--October number, 1898. First, a Baptist clergyman
gives us this true picture of 'the average orthodox Christian'--and he could have added that
it is a true picture of the average (civilised) human being:

'He is a worried and fretted and fearful man; afraid of himself and his propensities, afraid
of colds and fevers, afraid of treading on serpents or drinking deadly things.'

Then he gives us this contrast:

'The average Christian Scientist has put all anxiety and fretting under his feet. He does have
a victory over fear and care that is not achieved by the average orthodox Christian.'

He has put all anxiety and fretting under his feet. What proportion of your earnings or income
would you be willing to pay for that frame of mind, year in year out? It really outvalues any
price that can be put upon it. Where can you purchase it, at any outlay of any sort, in any
Church or out of it, except the Scientist's?

Well, it is the anxiety and fretting about colds, and fevers, and draughts, and getting our
feet wet, and about forbidden food eaten in terror of indigestion, that brings on the cold
and the fever and the indigestion and the most of our other ailments; and so, if the Science
can banish that anxiety from the world I think it can reduce the world's disease and pain about
four-fifths.

In this October number many of the redeemed testify and give thanks; and not coldly but with
passionate gratitude. As a rule they seem drunk with health, and with the surprise of it, the
wonder of it, the unspeakable glory and splendour of it, after a long sober spell spent in
inventing imaginary diseases and concreting them with doctor-stuff. The first witness testifies
that when 'this most beautiful Truth first dawned on him' he had 'nearly all the ills that
flesh is heir to;' that those he did not have he thought he had--and thus made the tale about
complete. What was the natural result? Why, he was a dump-pit 'for all the doctors, druggists,
and patent medicines of the country.' Christian Science came to his help, and 'the old sick
conditions passed away,' and along with them the 'dismal forebodings' which he had been accustomed
to employ in conjuring up ailments. And so he was a healthy and cheerful man, now, and astonished.

But I am not astonished, for from other sources I know what must have been his method of applying
Christian Science. If I am in the right, he watchfully and diligently diverted his mind from
unhealthy channels and compelled it to travel in healthy ones. Nothing contrivable by human
invention could be more formidably effective than that, in banishing imaginary ailments and
in closing the entrances against subsequent applicants of their breed. I think his method was
to keep saying, 'I am well! I am sound!--sound and well! well and sound! Perfectly sound, perfectly
well! I have no pain; there's no such thing as pain! I have no disease; there's no such thing
as disease! Nothing is real but Mind; all is Mind, All-Good, Good-Good, Life, Soul, Liver,
Bones, one of a series, ante and pass the buck!'

I do not mean that that was exactly the formula used, but that it doubtless contains the spirit
of it. The Scientist would attach value to the exact formula, no doubt, and to the religious
spirit in which it was used. I should think that any formula that would divert the mind from
unwholesome channels and force it into healthy ones would answer every purpose with some people,
though not with all. I think it most likely that a very religious man would find the addition
of the religious spirit a powerful reinforcement in his case.

The second witness testifies that the Science banished 'an old organic trouble' which the doctor
and the surgeon had been nursing with drugs and the knife for seven years.

He calls it his 'claim.' A surface-miner would think it was not his claim at all, but the property
of the doctor and his pal the surgeon--for he would be misled by that word, which is Christian-Science
slang for 'ailment.' The Christian Scientist has no ailment; to him there is no such thing,
and he will not use the lying word. All that happens to him is, that upon his attention an
imaginary disturbance sometimes obtrudes itself which claims to be an ailment, but isn't.

This witness offers testimony for a clergyman seventy years old who had preached forty years
in a Christian church, and has not gone over to the new sect. He was 'almost blind and deaf.'
He was treated by the C.S. method, and 'when he heard the voice of Truth he saw spiritually.'
Saw spiritually. It is a little indefinite; they had better treat him again. Indefinite testimonies
might properly be waste-basketed, since there is evidently no lack of definite ones procurable,
but this C.S. magazine is poorly edited, and so mistakes of this kind must be expected.

The next witness is a soldier of the Civil War. When Christian Science found him, he had in
stock the following claims:

     Indigestion,
     Rheumatism,
     Catarrh,
     Chalky deposits in
       Shoulder joints,
       Arm joints,
       Hand joints,
     Atrophy of the muscles of
       Arms,
       Shoulders,
     Stiffness of all those joints,
     Insomnia,
     Excruciating pains most of the time.

These claims have a very substantial sound. They came of exposure in the campaigns. The doctors
did all they could, but it was little. Prayers were tried, but 'I never realised any physical
relief from that source.' After thirty years of torture he went to a Christian Scientist and
took an hour's treatment and went home painless. Two days later he 'began to eat like a well
man.' Then 'the claims vanished--some at once, others more gradually;' finally, 'they have
almost entirely disappeared.' And--a thing which is of still greater value--he is now 'contented
and happy.' That is a detail which, as earlier remarked, is a Scientist-Church specialty. With
thirty-one years' effort the Methodist Church had not succeeded in furnishing it to this harassed
soldier.

And so the tale goes on. Witness after witness bulletins his claims, declares their prompt
abolishment, and gives Mrs. Eddy's Discovery the praise. Milk-leg is cured; nervous prostration
is cured; consumption is cured; and St. Vitus's dance made a pastime. And now and then an interesting
new addition to the Science slang appears on the page. We have 'demonstrations over' chilblains
and such things. It seems to be a curtailed way of saying 'demonstrations of the power of Christian-Science
Truth over the fiction which masquerades under the name of Chilblains.' The children as well
as the adults, share in the blessings of the Science. 'Through the study of the "little book"
they are learning how to be healthful, peaceful, and wise.' Sometimes they are cured of their
little claims by the professional healer, and sometimes more advanced children say over the
formula and cure themselves.

A little Far-Western girl of nine, equipped with an adult vocabulary, states her age and says,
'I thought I would write a demonstration to you.' She had a claim derived from getting flung
over a pony's head and landed on a rock-pile. She saved herself from disaster by remember to
say 'God is All' while she was in the air. I couldn't have done it. I shouldn't have even thought
of it. I should have been too excited. Nothing but Christian Science could have enabled that
child to do that calm and thoughtful and judicious thing in those circumstances. She came down
on her head, and by all the rules she should have broken it; but the intervention of the formula
prevented that, so the only claim resulting was a blackened eye. Monday morning it was still
swollen and shut. At school 'it hurt pretty bad--that is, it seemed to.' So 'I was excused,
and went down in the basement and said, "Now I am depending on mamma instead of God, and I
will depend on God instead of mamma."' No doubt this would have answered; but, to make sure,
she added Mrs. Eddy to the team and recited 'the Scientific Statement of Being,' which is one
of the principal incantations, I judge. Then 'I felt my eye opening.' Why, it would have opened
an oyster. I think it is one of the touchingest things in child-history, that pious little
rat down cellar pumping away at the Scientific Statement of Being.

There is a page about another good child--little Gordon. Little Gordon 'came into the world
without the assistance of surgery or anaesthetics.' He was a 'demonstration.' A painless one;
therefore his coming evoked 'joy and thankfulness to God and the Discoverer of Christian Science.'
It is a noticeable feature of this literature--the so frequent linking together of the Two
Beings in an equal bond; also of Their Two Bibles. When little Gordon was two years old, 'he
was playing horse on the bed, where I had left my "little book." I noticed him stop in his
play, take the book carefully in his little hands, kiss it softly, then look about for the
highest place of safety his arms could reach, and put it there.' This pious act filled the
mother 'with such a train of thought as I had never experienced before. I thought of the sweet
mother of long ago who kept things in her heart,' etc. It is a bold comparison; however, unconscious
profanations are about as common in the mouths of the lay membership of the new Church as are
frank and open ones in the mouths of its consecrated chiefs.

Some days later, the family library--Christian Science books--was lying in a deep-seated window.
It was another chance for the holy child to show off. He left his play and went there and pushed
all the books to one side except the Annex. 'It he took in both hands, slowly raised it to
his lips, then removed it carefully, and seated himself in the window.' It had seemed to the
mother too wonderful to be true, that first time; but now she was convinced that 'neither imagination
nor accident had anything to do with it.' Later, little Gordon let the author of his being
see him do it. After that he did it frequently; probably every time anybody was looking. I
would rather have that child than a chromo. If this tale has any object, it is to intimate
that the inspired book was supernaturally able to convey a sense of its sacred and awful character
to this innocent little creature without the intervention of outside aids. The magazine is
not edited with high-priced discretion. The editor has a claim, and he ought to get it treated.

Among other witnesses, there is one who had a 'jumping toothache,' which several times tempted
her to 'believe that there was sensation in matter, but each time it was overcome by the power
of Truth.' She would not allow the dentist to use cocaine, but sat there and let him punch
and drill and split and crush the tool, and tear and slash its ulcerations, and pull out the
nerve, and dig out fragments of bone; and she wouldn't once confess that it hurt. And to this
day she thinks it didn't, and I have not a doubt that she is nine-tenths right, and that her
Christian Science faith did her better service than she could have gotten out of cocaine.

There is an account of a boy who got broken all up into small bits by an accident, but said
over the Scientific Statement of Being, or some of the other incantations, and got well and
sound without having suffered any real pain and without the intrusion of a surgeon. I can believe
this, because my own case was somewhat similar, as per my former article.

Also there is an account of the restoration to perfect health, in a single night, of a fatally
injured horse, by the application of Christian Science. I can stand a good deal, but I recognise
that the ice is getting thin here. That horse had as many as fifty claims: how could he demonstrate
over them? Could he do the All-Good, Good-Good, Good-Gracious, Liver, Bones, Truth, All down
but Nine, Set them up on the Other Alley? Could he intone the Scientific Statement of Being?
Now, could he? Wouldn't it give him a relapse? Let us draw the line at horses. Horses and furniture.

There is a plenty of other testimonies in the magazine, but these quoted samples will answer.
They show the kind of trade the Science is driving. Now we come back to the question; Does
it kill a patient here and there and now and then? We must concede it. Does it compensate for
this? I am persuaded that it can make a plausible showing in that direction. For instance:
when it lays its hands upon a soldier who has suffered thirty years of helpless torture and
makes him whole in body and mind, what is the actual sum of that achievement? This, I think:
that it has restored to life a subject who had essentially died ten deaths a year for thirty
years, and each of them a long and painful one. But for its interference that man would have
essentially died thirty times more, in the three years which have since elapsed. There are
thousand of young people in the land who are now ready to enter upon a life-long death similar
to that man's. Every time the Science captures one of these and secures to him life-long immunity
from imagination-manufactured disease, it may plausibly claim that in his person it has saved
300 lives. Meantime it will kill a man every now and then; but no matter, it will still be
ahead on the credit side.

VIII

     'We consciously declare that "Science and Health with Key to the
     Scriptures," was foretold as well as its author, Mary Baker Eddy, in
     Revelation x.  She is the "mighty angel," or God's highest thought
     to this age (verse 1), giving us the spiritual interpretation of the
     Bible in the "little book open" (verse 2).  Thus we prove that
     Christian Science is the second coming of Christ--Truth--Spirit.'
     --Lecture by Dr.  George Tomkins, D.D., C.S.

There you have it in plain speech. She is the mighty angel; she is the divinely and officially
sent bearer of God's highest thought. For the present, she brings the Second Advent. We must
expect that before she has been in her grave fifty years she will be regarded by her following
as having been herself the Second Advent. She is already worshipped, and we must expect this
feeling to spread territorially, and also to deepen in intensity (1).

Particularly after her death; for then, as anyone can foresee, Eddy-worship will be taught
in the Sunday-schools and pulpits of the cult. Already whatever she puts her trade-mark on,
thought it be only a memorial spoon, is holy and is eagerly and passionately and gratefully
bought by the disciple, and becomes a fetish in his house. I say bought, for the Boston Christian-Science
Trust gives nothing away; everything it has for sale. And the terms are cash; and not cash
only but cash in advance. Its god is Mrs. Eddy first, then the Dollar. Not a spiritual Dollar,
but a real one. From end to end of the Christian-Science literature not a single (material)
thing in the world is conceded to be real, except the Dollar. But all through and through its
advertisements that reality is eagerly and persistently recognised. The hunger of the Trust
for the Dollar, its adoration of the Dollar, its lust after the Dollar, its ecstasy in the
mere thought of the Dollar--there has been nothing like it in the world in any age or country,
nothing so coarse, nothing so lubricous, nothing so bestial, except a French novel's attitude
towards adultery.

The Dollar is hunted down in all sorts of ways; the Christian-Science Mother-Church and Bargain-Counter
in Boston peddles all kinds of spiritual wares to the faithful, always at extravagant prices,
and always on the one condition--cash, cash in advance. The Angel of the Apocalypse could not
go there and get a copy of his own pirated book on credit. Many, many precious Christian-Science
things are to be had there--for cash: Bible Lessons; Church Manual; C.S. Hymnal; History of
the building of the Mother-Church; lot of Sermons; Communion Hymn, 'Saw Ye My Saviour,' by
Mrs. Eddy, half a dollar a copy, 'words used by special permission of Mrs. Eddy.' Also we have
Mrs. Eddy's and the Angel's little Bible-Annex in eight styles of binding at eight kinds of
war-prices: among these a sweet thing in 'levant, divinity circuit, leather lined to edge,
round corners, gold edge, silk sewed, each, prepaid, $6,' and if you take a million you get
them a shilling cheaper--that is to say, 'prepaid, $5.75.' Also we have Mrs. Eddy's 'Miscellaneous
Writings,' at noble big prices, the divinity-circuit style heading the extortions, shilling
discount where you take an edition. Next comes 'Christ and Christmas,' by the fertile Mrs.
Eddy--a poem--I would God I could see it--price $3, cash in advance. Then follow five more
books by Mrs. Eddy at highwaymen's rates, as usual, some of them in 'leatherette covers,' some
of them in 'pebbled cloth,' with divinity circuit, compensation balance, twin screw, and the
other modern improvements: and at the same bargain counter can be had the 'Christian Science
Journal.' I wish it were in refined taste to apply a rudely and ruggedly descriptive epithet
to that literary slush-bucket, so as to give one an accurate idea of what it is like. I am
moved to do it, but I must not: it is better to be refined than accurate when one is talking
about a production like that.

Christian-Science literary oleomargarine is a monopoly of the Mother Church Headquarters Factory
in Boston; none genuine without the trade-mark of the Trust. You must apply there, and not
elsewhere; and you pay your money before you get your soap-fat.

The Trust has still other sources of income. Mrs. Eddy is president (and perhaps proprietor?)
of the Trust's Metaphysical College in Boston, where the student who has practised C.S. healing
during three years the best he knew how perfects himself in the game by a two weeks' course,
and pays one hundred dollars for it! And I have a case among my statistics where the student
had a three weeks' course and paid three hundred for it.

The Trust does love the Dollar when it isn't a spiritual one.

In order to force the sale of Mrs. Eddy's Bible-Annex, no healer, Metaphysical College-bred
or other, is allowed to practise the game unless he possess a copy of that holy nightmare.
That means a large and constantly augmenting income for the Trust. No C.S. family would consider
itself loyal or pious or pain-proof without an Annex or two in the house. That means an income
for the Trust--in the near future--of millions: not thousands--millions a year.

No member, young or old, of a Christian-Scientist church can retain that membership unless
he pay 'capitation tax' to the Boston Trust every year. That means an income for the Trust--in
the near future--of millions more per year.

It is a reasonably safe guess that in America in 1910 there will be 10,000,000 Christian Scientists,
and 3,000,000 in Great Britain; that these figures will be trebled by 1920; that in America
in 1910 the Christian Scientists will be a political force, in 1920 politically formidable--to
remain that, permanently. And I think it a reasonable guess that the Trust (which is already
in our day pretty brusque in its ways) will then be the most insolent and unscrupulous and
tyrannical politico-religious master that has dominated a people since the palmy days of the
Inquisition. And a stronger master than the strongest of bygone times, because this one will
have a financial strength not dreamed of by any predecessor; as effective a concentration of
irresponsible power as any predecessor had; in the railway, the telegraph, and the subsidised
newspaper, better facilities for watching and managing his empire than any predecessor has
had; and after a generation or two he will probably divide Christendom with the Catholic Church.

The Roman Church has a perfect organisation, and it has an effective centralisation of power--but
not of its cash. Its multitude of Bishops are rich, but their riches remain in large measure
in their own hands. They collect from 200,000,000 of people, but they keep the bulk of the
result at home. The Boston Pope of by-and-by will draw his dollar-a-head capitation-tax from
300,000,000 of the human race, and the Annex and the rest of his book-shop will fetch in double
as much more; and his Metaphysical Colleges, the annual pilgrimage to Mrs. Eddy's tomb, from
all over the world--admission, the Christian-Science Dollar (payable in advance)--purchases
of consecrated glass beads, candles, memorial spoons, aureoled chromo-portraits and bogus autographs
of Mrs. Eddy, cash offerings at her shrine--no crutches of cured cripples received, and no
imitations of miraculously restored broken legs and necks allowed to be hung up except when
made out of the Holy Metal and proved by fire-assay; cash for miracles worked at the tomb:
these money-sources, with a thousand to be yet invented and ambushed upon the devotee, will
bring the annual increment well up above a billion. And nobody but the Trust will have the
handling of it. No Bishops appointed unless they agree to hand in 90 per cent. of the catch.
In that day the Trust will monopolise the manufacture and sale of the Old and New Testaments
as well as the Annex, and raise their price to Annex rates, and compel the devotee to buy (for
even to-day a healer has to have the Annex and the Scriptures or he is not allowed to work
the game), and that will bring several hundred million dollars more. In those days the Trust
will have an income approaching $5,000,000 a day, and no expenses to be taken out of it; no
taxes to pay, and no charities to support. That last detail should not be lightly passed over
by the read; it is well entitled to attention.

No charities to support. No, nor even to contribute to. One searches in vain the Trust's advertisements
and the utterances of its pulpit for any suggestion that it spends a penny on orphans, widows,
discharged prisoners, hospitals, ragged schools, night missions, city missions, foreign missions,
libraries, old people's homes, or any other object that appeals to a human being's purse through
his heart.(2)

I have hunted, hunted, and hunted, by correspondence and otherwise, and have not yet got upon
the track of a farthing that the Trust has spent upon any worthy object. Nothing makes a Scientist
so uncomfortable as to ask him if he knows of a case where Christian Science has spent money
on a benevolence, either among its own adherents or elsewhere. He is obliged to say no. And
then one discovers that the person questioned has been asked the question many times before,
and that it is getting to be a sore subject with him. Why a sore subject? Because he has written
his chiefs and asked with high confidence for an answer that will confound these questioners--and
the chiefs did not reply. He has written again--and then again--not with confidence, but humbly,
now, and has begged for defensive ammunition in the voice of supplication. A reply does at
last come--to this effect: 'We must have faith in Our Mother, and rest content in the conviction
that whatever She(3) does with the money it is in accordance with orders from Heaven, for She
does no act of any kind without first "demonstrating over" it.'

That settles it--as far as the disciple is concerned. His Mind is entirely satisfied with that
answer; he gets down his Annex and does an incantation or two, and that mesmerises his spirit
and puts that to sleep--brings it peace. Peace and comfort and joy, until some inquirer punctures
the old sore again.

Through friends in America I asked some questions, and in some cases got definite and informing
answers; in other cases the answers were not definite and not valuable. From the definite answers
I gather than the 'capitation-tax' is compulsory, and that the sum is one dollar. To the question,
'Does any of the money go to charities?' the answer from an authoritative source was: 'No,
not in the sense usually conveyed by this word*.' (The italics are mine.) That answer is cautious.
But definite, I think--utterly and unassailably definite--although quite Christian-scientifically
foggy in its phrasing. Christian Science is generally foggy, generally diffuse, generally garrulous.
The writer was aware that the first word in his phrase answered the question which I was asking,
but he could not help adding nine dark words. Meaningless ones, unless explained by him. It
is quite likely--as intimated by him--that Christian Science has invented a new class of objects
to apply the word charity to, but without an explanation we cannot know what they are. We quite
easily and naturally and confidently guess that they are in all cases objects which will return
five hundred per cent. on the Trust's investment in them, but guessing is not knowledge; it
is merely, in this case, a sort of nine-tenths certainty deducible from what we think we know
of the Trust's trade principles and its sly and furtive and shifty ways.

Sly? Deep? Judicious? The Trust understands business. The Trust does not give itself away.
It defeats all the attempts of us impertinents to get at its trade secrets. To this day, after
all our diligence, we have not been able to get it to confess what it does with the money.
It does not even let its own disciples find out. All it says is, that the matter has been 'demonstrated
over.' Now and then a lay Scientist says, with a grateful exultation, that Mrs. Eddy is enormously
rich, but he stops there; as to whether any of the money goes to other charities or not, he
is obliged to admit that he does not know. However, the Trust is composed of human beings;
and this justifies the conjecture that if it had a charity on its list which it did not need
to blush for, we should soon hear of it.

'Without money and without price.' Those used to be the terms. Mrs. Eddy's Annex cancels them.
The motto of Christian Science is 'The labourer is worthy of his hire.' And now that it has
been 'demonstrated over,' we find its spiritual meaning to be, 'Do anything and everything
your hand may find to do; and charge cash for it, and collect the money in advance.' The Scientist
has on his tongue's end a cut-and-dried, Boston-supplied set of rather lean arguments whose
function is to show that it is a Heaven-commanded duty to do this, and that the croupiers of
the game have no choice by to obey.

The Trust seems to be a reincarnation. Exodus xxxii.4.

I have no reverence for Mrs. Eddy and the rest of the Trust--if there is a rest--but I am not
lacking in reverence for the sincerities of the lay membership of the new Church. There is
every evidence that the lay members are entirely sincere in their faith, and I think sincerity
is always entitled to honour and respect, let the inspiration of the sincerity be what it may.
Zeal and sincerity can carry a new religion further than any other missionary except fire and
sword, and I believe that the new religion will conquer the half of Christendom in a hundred
years. I am not intending this as a compliment to the human race, I am merely stating an opinion.
And yet I think that perhaps it is a compliment to the race. I keep in mind that saying of
an orthodox preacher--quoted further back. He conceded that this new Christianity frees its
possessor's life from frets, fears, vexations, bitterness, and all sorts of imagination-propagated
maladies and pains, and fills his world with sunshine and his heart with gladness. If Christian
Science, with this stupendous equipment--and final salvation added--cannot win half the Christian
globe, I must be badly mistaken in the make-up of the human race.

I think the Trust will be handed down like the other papacy, and will always know how to handle
its limitless cash. It will press the button; the zeal, the energy, the sincerity, the enthusiasm
of its countless vassals will do the rest.

IX

The power which a man's imagination has over his body to heal it or make it sick is a force
which none of us is born without. The first man had it, the last one will possess it. If left
to himself a man is most likely to use only the mischievous half of the force--the half which
invents imaginary ailments for him and cultivates them: and if he is one of these very wise
people he is quite likely to scoff at the beneficent half of the force and deny its existence.
And so, to heal or help that man, two imaginations are required: his own and some outsider's.
The outsider, B, must imagine that his incantations are the healing power that is curing A,
and A must imagine that this is so. It is not so, at all; but no matter, the cure is effected,
and that is the main thing. The outsider's work is unquestionably valuable; so valuable that
it may fairly be likened to the essential work performed by the engineer when he handles the
throttle and turns on the steam: the actual power is lodged exclusively in the engine, but
if the engine were left alone it would never start of itself. Whether the engineer be named
Jim, or Bob, or Tom, it is all one--his services are necessary, and he is entitled to such
wage as he can get you to pay. Whether he be named Christian Scientist, or Mental Scientist,
or Mind Curist, or Lourdes Miracle-Worker, or King's-Evil Expert, it is all one,--he is merely
the Engineer, he simply turns on the same old steam and the engine does the whole work.

In the case of the cure-engine it is a distinct advantage to clothe the engineer in religious
overalls and give him a pious name. It greatly enlarges the business, and does no one any harm.

The Christian-Scientist engineer drives exactly the same trade as the other engineers, yet
he out-prospers the whole of them put together. Is it because he has captured the takingest
name? I think that that is only a small part of it. I think that the secret of his high prosperity
lies elsewhere:

The Christian Scientist has organised the business. Now that was certainly a gigantic idea.
There is more intellect in it than would be needed in the invention of a couple of millions
of Eddy Science-and-Health Bible Annexes. Electricity, in limitless volume, has existed in
the air and the rocks and the earth and everywhere since time began--and was going to waste
all the while. In our time we have organised that scattered and wandering force and set it
to work, and backed the business with capital, and concentrated it in few and competent hands,
and the results are as we see.

The Christian Scientist has taken a force which has been lying idle in every member of the
human race since time began, and has organised it, and backed the business with capital, and
concentrated it at Boston headquarters in the hands of a small and very competent Trust, and
there are results.

Therein lies the promise that this monopoly is going to extend its commerce wide in the earth.
I think that if the business were conducted in the loose and disconnected fashion customary
with such things, it would achieve but little more than the modest prosperity usually secured
by unorganised great moral and commercial ventures; but I believe that so long as this one
remains compactly organised and closely concentrated in a Trust, the spread of its dominion
will continue.

VIENNA: May 1, 1899.

(1) After raising a dead child to life, the disciple who did it writes an account of her performance,
to Mrs. Eddy, and closes it thus: 'My prayer daily is to be more spiritual, that I may do more
as you would have me do... and may we all love you more and so live it that the world may know
that the Christ is come.'--Printed in the Concord, N.H., Independent Statesman, March 9, 1899.
If this is no worship, it is a good imitation of it.

(2) In the past two years the membership of the Established Church of England have given voluntary
contributions amounting to $73,000,000 to the Church's benevolent enterprises. Churches that
give have nothing to hide.

(3) I may be introducing the capital S a little early--still it is on its way.

IS HE LIVING OR IS HE DEAD?

I was spending the month of March 1892 at Mentone, in the Riviera. At this retired spot one
has all the advantages, privately, which are to be had publicly at Monte Carlo and Nice, a
few miles farther along. That is to say, one has the flooding sunshine, the balmy air and the
brilliant blue sea, without the marring additions of human pow-wow and fuss and feathers and
display. Mentone is quiet, simple, restful, unpretentious; the rich and the gaudy do not come
there. As a rule, I mean, the rich do not come there. Now and then a rich man comes, and I
presently got acquainted with one of these. Partially to disguise him I will call him Smith.
One day, in the Hotel des Anglais, at the second breakfast, he exclaimed:

'Quick! Cast your eye on the man going out at the door. Take in every detail of him.'

'Why?'

'Do you know who he is?'

'Yes. He spent several days here before you came. He is an old, retired, and very rich silk
manufacturer from Lyons, they say, and I guess he is alone in the world, for he always looks
sad and dreamy, and doesn't talk with anybody. His name is Theophile Magnan.'

I supposed that Smith would now proceed to justify the large interest which he had shown in
Monsieur Magnan, but, instead, he dropped into a brown study, and was apparently lost to me
and to the rest of the world during some minutes. Now and then he passed his fingers through
his flossy white hair, to assist his thinking, and meantime he allowed his breakfast to go
on cooling. At last he said:

'No, it's gone; I can't call it back.'

'Can't call what back?'

'It's one of Hans Andersen's beautiful little stories. But it's gone fro me. Part of it is
like this: A child has a caged bird, which it loves but thoughtlessly neglects. The bird pours
out its song unheard and unheeded; but, in time, hunger and thirst assail the creature, and
its song grows plaintive and feeble and finally ceases--the bird dies. The child comes, and
is smitten to the heart with remorse: then, with bitter tears and lamentations, it calls its
mates, and they bury the bird with elaborate pomp and the tenderest grief, without knowing,
poor things, that it isn't children only who starve poets to death and then spend enough on
their funerals and monuments to have kept them alive and made them easy and comfortable. Now--'

But here we were interrupted. About ten that evening I ran across Smith, and he asked me up
to his parlour to help him smoke and drink hot Scotch. It was a cosy place, with its comfortable
chairs, its cheerful lamps, and its friendly open fire of seasoned olive-wood. To make everything
perfect, there was a muffled booming of the surf outside. After the second Scotch and much
lazy and contented chat, Smith said:

'Now we are properly primed--I to tell a curious history and you to listen to it. It has been
a secret for many years--a secret between me and three others; but I am going to break the
seal now. Are you comfortable?'

'Perfectly. Go on.'

Here follows what he told me:

'A long time ago I was a young artist--a very young artist, in fact--and I wandered about the
country parts of France, sketching here and sketching there, and was presently joined by a
couple of darling young Frenchmen who were at the same kind of thing that I was doing. We were
as happy as we were poor, or as poor as we were happy--phrase it to suit yourself. Claude Frere
and Carl Boulanger--these are the names of those boys; dear, dear fellows, and the sunniest
spirits that ever laughed at poverty and had a noble good time in all weathers.

'At last we ran hard aground in a Breton village, and an artist as poor as ourselves took us
in and literally saved us from starving--Francois Millet--'

'What! the great Francois Millet?'

'Great? He wasn't any greater than we were, then. He hadn't any fame, even in his own village;
and he was so poor that he hadn't anything to feed us on but turnips, and even the turnips
failed us sometimes. We four became fast friends, doting friends, inseparables. We painted
away together with all our might, piling up stock, piling up stock, but very seldom getting
rid of any of it. We had lovely times together; but, O my soul! how we were pinched now and then!

'For a little over two years this went on. At last, one day, Claude said:

'"Boys, we've come to the end. Do you understand that?--absolutely to the end. Everybody has
struck--there's a league formed against us. I've been all around the village and it's just
as I tell you. They refuse to credit us for another centime until all the odds and ends are
paid up."

'This struck us as cold. Every face was blank with dismay. We realised that our circumstances
were desperate, now. There was a long silence. Finally, Millet said with a sigh:

'"Nothing occurs to me--nothing. Suggest something, lads."

'There was no response, unless a mournful silence may be called a response. Carl got up, and
walked nervously up and down a while, then said:

'"It's a shame! Look at these canvases: stacks and stacks of as good pictures as anybody in
Europe paints--I don't care who he is. Yes, and plenty of lounging strangers have said the
same--or nearly that, anyway."

'"But didn't buy," Millet said.

'"No matter, they said it; and it's true, too. Look at your 'Angelus' there! Will anybody tell
me--"

'"Pah, Carl--My 'Angelus!' I was offered five francs for it."

'"When?"

'"Who offered it?"

'"Where is he?"

'"Why didn't you take it?"

'"Come--don't all speak at once. I thought he would give more--I was sure of it--he looked
it--so I asked him eight."

'"Well--and then?"

'"He said he would call again."

'"Thunder and lightning! Why, Francois--"

'"Oh, I know--I know! It was a mistake, and I was a fool. Boys, I meant for the best; you'll
grant me that, and I--"

'"Why, certainly, we know that, bless your dear heart; but don't you be a fool again."

'"I? I wish somebody would come along and offer us a cabbage for it--you'd see!"

'"A cabbage! Oh, don't name it--it makes my mouth water. Talk of things less trying."

'"Boys," said Carl, "do these pictures lack merit? Answer me that."

'"No!"

'"Aren't they of very great and high merit? Answer me that."

'"Yes."

'"Of such great and high merit that, if an illustrious name were attached to them they would
sell at splendid prices. Isn't it so?"

'"Certainly it is. Nobody doubts that."

'"But--I'm not joking--isn't it so?"

'"Why, of course it's so--and we are not joking. But what of it. What of it? How does that
concern us?"

'"In this way, comrades--we'll attach an illustrious name to them!"

'The lively conversation stopped. The faces were turned inquiringly upon Carl. What sort of
riddle might this be? Where was an illustrious name to be borrowed? And who was to borrow it?

'Carl sat down, and said:

'"Now, I have a perfectly serious thing to propose. I think it is the only way to keep us out
of the almshouse, and I believe it to be a perfectly sure way. I base this opinion upon certain
multitudinous and long-established facts in human history. I believe my project will make us
all rich."

'"Rich! You've lost your mind."

'"No, I haven't."

'"Yes, you have--you've lost your mind. What do you call rich?"

'"A hundred thousand francs apiece."

'"He has lost his mind. I knew it."

'"Yes, he has. Carl, privation has been too much for you, and--"

'"Carl, you want to take a pill and get right to bed."

'"Bandage him first--bandage his head, and then--"

'"No, bandage his heels; his brains have been settling for weeks--I've noticed it."

'"Shut up!" said Millet, with ostensible severity, "and let the boy have his say. Now, then--come
out with your project, Carl. What is it?"

'"Well, then, by way of preamble I will ask you to note this fact in human history: that the
merit of many a great artist has never been acknowledged until after he was starved and dead.
This has happened so often that I make bold to found a law upon it. This law: that the merit
of every great unknown and neglected artist must and will be recognised and his pictures climb
to high prices after his death. My project is this: we must cast lots--one of us must die."

'The remark fell so calmly and so unexpectedly that we almost forgot to jump. Then there was
a wild chorus of advice again--medical advice--for the help of Carl's brain; but he waited
patiently for the hilarity to calm down, and then went on again with his project:

'"Yes, one of us must die, to save the others--and himself. We will cast lots. The one chosen
shall be illustrious, all of us shall be rich. Hold still, now--hold still; don't interrupt--I
tell you I know what I am talking about. Here is the idea. During the next three months the
one who is to die shall paint with all his might, enlarge his stock all he can--not pictures,
no! skeleton sketches, studies, parts of studies, fragments of studies, a dozen dabs of the
brush on each--meaningless, of course, but his, with his cipher on them; turn out fifty a day,
each to contain some peculiarity or mannerism easily detectable as his--they're the things
that sell, you know, and are collected at fabulous prices for the world's museums, after the
great man is gone; we'll have a ton of them ready--a ton! And all that time the rest of us
will be busy supporting the moribund, and working Paris and the dealers--preparations for the
coming event, you know; and when everything is hot and just right, we'll spring the death on
them and have the notorious funeral. You get the idea?"

'"N-o; at least, not qu--"

'"Not quite? Don't you see? The man doesn't really die; he changes his name and vanishes; we
bury a dummy, and cry over it, with all the world to help. And I--"

'But he wasn't allowed to finish. Everybody broke out into a rousing hurrah of applause; and
all jumped up and capered about the room and fell on each other's necks in transports of gratitude
and joy. For hours we talked over the great plan, without ever feeling hungry; and at last,
when all the details had been arranged satisfactorily, we cast lots and Millet was elected--elected
to die, as we called it. Then we scraped together those things which one never parts with until
he is betting them against future wealth--keepsake trinkets and suchlike--and these we pawned
for enough to furnish us a frugal farewell supper and breakfast, and leave us a few francs
over for travel, and a stake of turnips and such for Millet to live on for a few days.

'Next morning, early, the three of us cleared out, straightway after breakfast--on foot, of
course. Each of us carried a dozen of Millet's small pictures, purposing to market them. Carl
struck for Paris, where he would start the work of building up Millet's name against the coming
great day. Claude and I were to separate, and scatter abroad over France.

'Now, it will surprise you to know what an easy and comfortable thing we had. I walked two
days before I began business. Then I began to sketch a villa in the outskirts of a big town--because
I saw the proprietor standing on an upper veranda. He came down to look on--I thought he would.
I worked swiftly, intending to keep him interested. Occasionally he fired off a little ejaculation
of approbation, and by-and-by he spoke up with enthusiasm, and said I was a master!

'I put down my brush, reached into my satchel, fetched out a Millet, and pointed to the cipher
in the corner. I said, proudly:

'"I suppose you recognise that? Well, he taught me! I should think I ought to know my trade!"

'The man looked guiltily embarrassed, and was silent. I said sorrowfully:

'"You don't mean to intimate that you don't know the cipher of Francois Millet!"

'Of course he didn't know that cipher; but he was the gratefullest man you ever saw, just the
same, for being let out of an uncomfortable place on such easy terms. He said:

'"No! Why, it is Millet's, sure enough! I don't know what I could have been thinking of. Of
course I recognise it now."

'Next, he wanted to buy it; but I said that although I wasn't rich I wasn't that poor. However,
at last, I let him have it for eight hundred francs.'

'Eight hundred!'

'Yes. Millet would have sold it for a pork chop. Yes, I got eight hundred francs for that little
thing. I wish I could get it back for eighty thousand. But that time's gone by. I made a very
nice picture of that man's house and I wanted to offer it to him for ten francs, but that wouldn't
answer, seeing I was the pupil of such a master, so I sold it to him for a hundred. I sent
the eight hundred francs straight to Millet from that town and struck out again next day.

'But I didn't walk--no. I rode. I have ridden ever since. I sold one picture every day, and
never tried to sell two. I always said to my customer:

'"I am a fool to sell a picture of Francois Millet's at all, for that man is not going to live
three months, and when he dies his pictures can't be had for love or money."

'I took care to spread that little fact as far as I could, and prepare the world for the event.

'I take credit to myself for our plan of selling the pictures--it was mine. I suggested it
that last evening when we were laying out our campaign, and all three of us agreed to give
it a good fair trial before giving it up for some other. It succeeded with all of us. I walked
only two days, Claude walked two--both of afraid to make Millet celebrated too close to home--but
Carl walked only half a day, the bright, conscienceless rascal, and after that he travelled
like a duke.

'Every now and then we got in with a country editor and started an item around through the
press; not an item announcing that a new painter had been discovered, but an item which let
on that everybody knew Francois Millet; not an item praising him in any way, but merely a word
concerning the present condition of the "master"--sometimes hopeful, sometimes despondent,
but always tinged with fears for the worst. We always marked these paragraphs, and sent the
papers to all the people who had bought pictures of us.

'Carl was soon in Paris and he worked things with a high hand. He made friends with the correspondents,
and got Millet's condition reported to England and all over the continent, and America, and
everywhere.

'At the end of six weeks from the start, we three met in Paris and called a halt, and stopped
sending back to Millet for additional pictures. The boom was so high, and everything so ripe,
that we saw that it would be a mistake not to strike now, right away, without waiting any longer.
So we wrote Millet to go to bed and begin to waste away pretty fast, for we should like him
to die in ten days if he could get ready.

'Then we figured up and found that among us we had sold eighty-five small pictures and studies,
and had sixty-nine thousand francs to show for it. Carl had made the last sale and the most
brilliant one of all. He sold the "Angelus" for twenty-two hundred francs. How we did glorify
him!--not foreseeing that a day was coming by-and-by when France would struggle to own it and
a stranger would capture it for five hundred and fifty thousand, cash.

'We had a wind-up champagne supper that night, and next day Claude and I packed up and went
off to nurse Millet through his last days and keep busybodies out of the house and send daily
bulletins to Carl in Paris for publication in the papers of several continents for the information
of a waiting world. The sad end came at last, and Carl was there in time to help in the final
mournful rites.

'You remember that great funeral, and what a stir it made all over the globe, and how the illustrious
of two worlds came to attend it and testify their sorrow. We four--still inseparable--carried
the coffin, and would allow none to help. And we were right about that, because it hadn't anything
in it but a wax figure, and any other coffin-bearers would have found fault with the weight.
Yes, we same old four, who had lovingly shared privation together in the old hard times now
gone for ever, carried the cof--'

'Which four?'

'We four--for Millet helped to carry his own coffin. In disguise, you know. Disguised as a
relative--distant relative.'

'Astonishing!'

'But true just the same. Well, you remember how the pictures went up. Money? We didn't know
what to do with it. There's a man in Paris to-day who owns seventy Millet pictures. He paid
us two million francs for them. And as for the bushels of sketches and studies which Millet
shovelled out during the six weeks that we were on the road, well, it would astonish you to
know the figure we sell them at nowadays--that is, when we consent to let one go!'

'It is a wonderful history, perfectly wonderful!'

'Yes--it amounts to that.'

'Whatever became of Millet?'

'Can you keep a secret?'

'I can.'

'Do you remember the man I called your attention to in the dining room to-day? That was Francois
Millet.'

'Great--'

'Scott! Yes. For once they didn't starve a genius to death and then put into other pockets
the rewards he should have had himself. This song-bird was not allowed to pipe out its heart
unheard and then be paid with the cold pomp of a big funeral. We looked out for that.'

MY DEBUT AS A LITERARY PERSON

In those early days I had already published one little thing ('The Jumping Frog') in an Eastern
paper, but I did not consider that that counted. In my view, a person who published things
in a mere newspaper could not properly claim recognition as a Literary Person: he must rise
away above that; he must appear in a magazine. He would then be a Literary Person; also, he
would be famous--right away. These two ambitions were strong upon me. This was in 1866. I prepared
my contribution, and then looked around for the best magazine to go up to glory in. I selected
the most important one in New York. The contribution was accepted. I signed it 'MARK TWAIN;'
for that name had some currency on the Pacific coast, and it was my idea to spread it all over
the world, now, at this one jump. The article appeared in the December number, and I sat up
a month waiting for the January number; for that one would contain the year's list of contributors,
my name would be in it, and I should be famous and could give the banquet I was meditating.

I did not give the banquet. I had not written the 'MARK TWAIN' distinctly; it was a fresh name
to Eastern printers, and they put it 'Mike Swain' or 'MacSwain,' I do not remember which. At
any rate, I was not celebrated and I did not give the banquet. I was a Literary Person, but
that was all--a buried one; buried alive.

My article was about the burning of the clipper-ship 'Hornet' on the line, May 3, 1866. There
were thirty-one men on board at the time, and I was in Honolulu when the fifteen lean and ghostly
survivors arrived there after a voyage of forty-three days in an open boat, through the blazing
tropics, on ten days' rations of food. A very remarkable trip; but it was conducted by a captain
who was a remarkable man, otherwise there would have been no survivors. He was a New Englander
of the best sea-going stock of the old capable times--Captain Josiah Mitchell.

I was in the islands to write letters for the weekly edition of the Sacramento 'Union,' a rich
and influential daily journal which hadn't any use for them, but could afford to spend twenty
dollars a week for nothing. The proprietors were lovable and well-beloved men: long ago dead,
no doubt, but in me there is at least one person who still holds them in grateful remembrance;
for I dearly wanted to see the islands, and they listened to me and gave me the opportunity
when there was but slender likelihood that it could profit them in any way.

I had been in the islands several months when the survivors arrived. I was laid up in my room
at the time, and unable to walk. Here was a great occasion to serve my journal, and I not able
to take advantage of it. Necessarily I was in deep trouble. But by good luck his Excellency
Anson Burlingame was there at the time, on his way to take up his post in China, where he did
such good work for the United States. He came and put me on a stretcher and had me carried
to the hospital where the shipwrecked men were, and I never needed to ask a question. He attended
to all of that himself, and I had nothing to do but make the notes. It was like him to take
that trouble. He was a great man and a great American, and it was in his fine nature to come
down from his high office and do a friendly turn whenever he could.

We got through with this work at six in the evening. I took no dinner, for there was no time
to spare if I would beat the other correspondents. I spent four hours arranging the notes in
their proper order, then wrote all night and beyond it; with this result: that I had a very
long and detailed account of the 'Hornet' episode ready at nine in the morning, while the other
correspondents of the San Francisco journals had nothing but a brief outline report--for they
didn't sit up. The now-and-then schooner was to sail for San Francisco about nine; when I reached
the dock she was free forward and was just casting off her stern-line. My fat envelope was
thrown by a strong hand, and fell on board all right, and my victory was a safe thing. All
in due time the ship reached San Francisco, but it was my complete report which made the stir
and was telegraphed to the New York papers, by Mr. Cash; he was in charge of the Pacific bureau
of the 'New York Herald' at the time.

When I returned to California by-and-by, I went up to Sacramento and presented a bill for general
correspondence at twenty dollars a week. It was paid. Then I presented a bill for 'special'
service on the 'Hornet' matter of three columns of solid nonpareil at a hundred dollars a column.
The cashier didn't faint, but he came rather near it. He sent for the proprietors, and they
came and never uttered a protest. They only laughed in their jolly fashion, and said it was
robbery, but no matter; it was a grand 'scoop' (the bill or my 'Hornet' report, I didn't know
which): 'Pay it. It's all right.' The best men that ever owned a newspaper.

The 'Hornet' survivors reached the Sandwich Islands the 15th of June. They were mere skinny
skeletons; their clothes hung limp about them and fitted them no better than a flag fits the
flag-staff in a calm. But they were well nursed in the hospital; the people of Honolulu kept
them supplied with all the dainties they could need; they gathered strength fast, and were
presently nearly as good as new. Within a fortnight the most of them took ship for San Francisco;
that is, if my dates have not gone astray in my memory. I went in the same ship, a sailing-vessel.
Captain Mitchell of the 'Hornet' was along; also the only passengers the 'Hornet' had carried.
These were two young men from Stamford, Connecticut--brothers: Samuel and Henry Ferguson. The
'Hornet' was a clipper of the first class and a fast sailer; the young men's quarters were
roomy and comfortable, and were well stocked with books, and also with canned meats and fruits
to help out the ship-fare with; and when the ship cleared from New York harbour in the first
week of January there was promise that she would make quick and pleasant work of the fourteen
or fifteen thousand miles in front of her. As soon as the cold latitudes were left behind and
the vessel entered summer weather, the voyage became a holiday picnic. The ship flew southward
under a cloud of sail which needed no attention, no modifying or change of any kind, for days
together. The young men read, strolled the ample deck, rested and drowsed in the shade of the
canvas, took their meals with the captain; and when the day was done they played dummy whist
with him till bed-time. After the snow and ice and tempests of the Horn, the ship bowled northward
into summer weather again, and the trip was a picnic once more.

Until the early morning of the 3rd of May. Computed position of the ship 112 degrees 10 minutes
longitude, latitude 2 degrees above the equator; no wind, no sea--dead calm; temperature of
the atmosphere, tropical, blistering, unimaginable by one who has not been roasted in it. There
was a cry of fire. An unfaithful sailor had disobeyed the rules and gone into the booby-hatch
with an open light to draw some varnish from a cask. The proper result followed, and the vessel's
hours were numbered.

There was not much time to spare, but the captain made the most of it. The three boats were
launched--long-boat and two quarter-boats. That the time was very short and the hurry and excitement
considerable is indicated by the fact that in launching the boats a hole was stove in the side
of one of them by some sort of collision, and an oar driven through the side of another. The
captain's first care was to have four sick sailors brought up and placed on deck out of harm's
way--among them a 'Portyghee.' This man had not done a day's work on the voyage, but had lain
in his hammock four months nursing an abscess. When we were taking notes in the Honolulu hospital
and a sailor told this to Mr. Burlingame, the third mate, who was lying near, raised his head
with an effort, and in a weak voice made this correction--with solemnity and feeling:

'Raising abscesses! He had a family of them. He done it to keep from standing his watch.'

Any provisions that lay handy were gathered up by the men and two passengers and brought and
dumped on the deck where the 'Portyghee' lay; then they ran for more. The sailor who was telling
this to Mr. Burlingame added:

'We pulled together thirty-two days' rations for the thirty-one men that way.'

The third mate lifted his head again and made another correction--with bitterness:

'The "Portyghee" et twenty-two of them while he was soldiering there and nobody noticing. A
damned hound.'

The fire spread with great rapidity. The smoke and flame drove the men back, and they had to
stop their incomplete work of fetching provisions, and take to the boats with only ten days'
rations secured.

Each boat had a compass, a quadrant, a copy of Bowditch's 'Navigator,' and a Nautical Almanac,
and the captain's and chief mate's boats had chronometers. There were thirty-one men all told.
The captain took an account of stock, with the following result: four hams, nearly thirty pounds
of salt pork, half-box of raisins, one hundred pounds of bread, twelve two-pound cans of oysters,
clams, and assorted meats, a keg containing four pounds of butter, twelve gallons of water
in a forty-gallon 'scuttle-butt', four one-gallon demijohns full of water, three bottles of
brandy (the property of passengers), some pipes, matches, and a hundred pounds of tobacco.
No medicines. Of course the whole party had to go on short rations at once.

The captain and the two passengers kept diaries. On our voyage to San Francisco we ran into
a calm in the middle of the Pacific, and did not move a rod during fourteen days; this gave
me a chance to copy the diaries. Samuel Ferguson's is the fullest; I will draw upon it now.
When the following paragraph was written the doomed ship was about one hundred and twenty days
out from port, and all hands were putting in the lazy time about as usual, as no one was forecasting
disaster.

     (Diary entry) May 2.  Latitude 1 degree 28 minutes N., longitude 111
     degrees 38 minutes W.  Another hot and sluggish day; at one time,
     however, the clouds promised wind, and there came a slight breeze
     --just enough to keep us going.  The only thing to chronicle to-day
     is the quantities of fish about; nine bonitos were caught this
     forenoon, and some large albacores seen.  After dinner the first
     mate hooked a fellow which he could not hold, so he let the line go
     to the captain, who was on the bow.  He, holding on, brought the
     fish to with a jerk, and snap went the line, hook and all.  We also
     saw astern, swimming lazily after us, an enormous shark, which must
     have been nine or ten feet long.  We tried him with all sorts of
     lines and a piece of pork, but he declined to take hold.  I suppose
     he had appeased his appetite on the heads and other remains of the
     bonitos we had thrown overboard.

Next day's entry records the disaster. The three boats got away, retired to a short distance,
and stopped. The two injured ones were leaking badly; some of the men were kept busy baling,
others patched the holes as well as they could. The captain, the two passengers, and eleven
men were in the long-boat, with a share of the provisions and water, and with no room to spare,
for the boat was only twenty-one feet long, six wide, and three deep. The chief mate and eight
men were in one of the small boats, the second mate and seven men in the other. The passengers
had saved no clothing but what they had on, excepting their overcoats. The ship, clothed in
flame and sending up a vast column of black smoke into the sky, made a grand picture in the
solitudes of the sea, and hour after hour the outcasts sat and watched it. Meantime the captain
ciphered on the immensity of the distance that stretched between him and the nearest available
land, and then scaled the rations down to meet the emergency; half a biscuit for dinner; one
biscuit and some canned meat for dinner; half a biscuit for tea; a few swallows of water for
each meal. And so hunger began to gnaw while the ship was still burning.

     (Diary entry) May 4.  The ship burned all night very brightly, and
     hopes are that some ship has seen the light and is bearing down upon
     us.  None seen, however, this forenoon, so we have determined to go
     together north and a little west to some islands in 18 degrees or 19
     degrees north latitude and 114 degrees to 115 degrees west
     longitude, hoping in the meantime to be picked up by some ship.  The
     ship sank suddenly at about 5 A.M.  We find the sun very hot and
     scorching, but all try to keep out of it as much as we can.

They did a quite natural thing now: waited several hours for that possible ship that might
have seen the light to work her slow way to them through the nearly dead calm. Then they gave
it up and set about their plans. If you will look at the map you will say that their course
could be easily decided. Albemarle Island (Galapagos group) lies straight eastward nearly a
thousand miles; the islands referred to in the diary as 'some islands' (Revillagigedo Islands)
lie, as they think, in some widely uncertain region northward about one thousand miles and
westward one hundred or one hundred and fifty miles. Acapulco, on the Mexican coast, lies about
north-east something short of one thousand miles. You will say random rocks in the ocean are
not what is wanted; let them strike for Acapulco and the solid continent. That does look like
the rational course, but one presently guesses from the diaries that the thing would have been
wholly irrational--indeed, suicidal. If the boats struck for Albemarle they would be in the
doldrums all the way; and that means a watery perdition, with winds which are wholly crazy,
and blow from all points of the compass at once and also perpendicularly. If the boats tried
for Acapulco they would get out of the doldrums when half-way there--in case they ever got
half-way--and then they would be in lamentable case, for there they would meet the north-east
trades coming down in their teeth, and these boats were so rigged that they could not sail
within eight points of the wind. So they wisely started northward, with a slight slant to the
west. They had but ten days' short allowance of food; the long-boat was towing the others;
they could not depend on making any sort of definite progress in the doldrums, and they had
four or five hundred miles of doldrums in front of them yet. They are the real equator, a tossing,
roaring, rainy belt, ten or twelve hundred miles broad, which girdles the globe.

It rained hard the first night and all got drenched, but they filled up their water-butt. The
brothers were in the stern with the captain, who steered. The quarters were cramped; no one
got much sleep. 'Kept on our course till squalls headed us off.'

Stormy and squally the next morning, with drenching rains. A heavy and dangerous 'cobbling'
sea. One marvels how such boats could live in it. Is it called a feat of desperate daring when
one man and a dog cross the Atlantic in a boat the size of a long-boat, and indeed it is; but
this long-boat was overloaded with men and other plunder, and was only three feet deep. 'We
naturally thought often of all at home, and were glad to remember that it was Sacrament Sunday,
and that prayers would go up from our friends for us, although they know not our peril.'

The captain got not even a cat-nap during the first three days and nights, but he got a few
winks of sleep the fourth night. 'The worst sea yet.' About ten at night the captain changed
his course and headed east-north-east, hoping to make Clipperton Rock. If he failed, no matter;
he would be in a better position to make those other islands. I will mention here that he did
not find that rock.

On May 8 no wind all day; sun blistering hot; they take to the oars. Plenty of dolphins, but
they couldn't catch any. 'I think we are all beginning to realise more and more the awful situation
we are in.' 'It often takes a ship a week to get through the doldrums; how much longer, then,
such a craft as ours?' 'We are so crowded that we cannot stretch ourselves out for a good sleep,
but have to take it any way we can get it.'

Of course this feature will grow more and more trying, but it will be human nature to cease
to set it down; there will be five weeks of it yet--we must try to remember that for the diarist;
it will make our beds the softer.

May 9 the sun gives him a warning: 'Looking with both eyes, the horizon crossed thus +.' 'Henry
keeps well, but broods over our troubles more than I wish he did.' They caught two dolphins;
they tasted well. 'The captain believed the compass out of the way, but the long-invisible
north star came out--a welcome sight--and endorsed the compass.'

May 10, 'latitude 7 degrees 0 minutes 3 seconds N., longitude 111 degrees 32 minutes W.' So
they have made about three hundred miles of northing in the six days since they left the region
of the lost ship. 'Drifting in calms all day.' And baking hot, of course; I have been down
there, and I remember that detail. 'Even as the captain says, all romance has long since vanished,
and I think the most of us are beginning to look the fact of our awful situation full in the
face.' 'We are making but little headway on our course.' Bad news from the rearmost boat: the
men are improvident; 'they have eaten up all of the canned meats brought from the ship, and
are now growing discontented.' Not so with the chief mate's people--they are evidently under
the eye of a man.

Under date of May 11: 'Standing still! or worse; we lost more last night than we made yesterday.'
In fact, they have lost three miles of the three hundred of northing they had so laboriously
made. 'The cock that was rescued and pitched into the boat while the ship was on fire still
lives, and crows with the breaking of dawn, cheering us a good deal.' What has he been living
on for a week? Did the starving men feed him from their dire poverty? 'The second mate's boat
out of water again, showing that they over-drink their allowance. The captain spoke pretty
sharply to them.' It is true: I have the remark in my old note-book; I got it of the third
mate in the hospital at Honolulu. But there is not room for it here, and it is too combustible,
anyway. Besides, the third mate admired it, and what he admired he was likely to enhance.

They were still watching hopefully for ships. The captain was a thoughtful man, and probably
did not disclose on them that that was substantially a waste of time. 'In this latitude the
horizon is filled with little upright clouds that look very much like ships.' Mr. Ferguson
saved three bottles of brandy from his private stores when he left the ship, and the liquor
came good in these days. 'The captain serves out two tablespoonfuls of brandy and water--half
and half--to our crew.' He means the watch that is on duty; they stood regular watches--four
hours on and four off. The chief mate was an excellent officer--a self-possessed, resolute,
fine, all-round man. The diarist makes the following note--there is character in it: 'I offered
one bottle of brandy to the chief mate, but he declined, saying he could keep the after-boat
quiet, and we had not enough for all.'

HENRY FERGUSON'S DIARY TO DATE, GIVEN IN FULL:

     May 4, 5, 6, doldrums.  May 7, 8, 9, doldrums.  May 10, 11, 12,
     doldrums.  Tells it all.  Never saw, never felt, never heard, never
     experienced such heat, such darkness, such lightning and thunder,
     and wind and rain, in my life before.

That boy's diary is of the economical sort that a person might properly be expected to keep
in such circumstances--and be forgiven for the economy, too. His brother, perishing of consumption,
hunger, thirst, blazing heat, drowning rains, loss of sleep, lack of exercise, was persistently
faithful and circumstantial with his diary from the first day to the last--an instance of noteworthy
fidelity and resolution. In spite of the tossing and plunging boat he wrote it close and fine,
in a hand as easy to read as print. They can't seem to get north of 7 degrees N.; they are
still there the next day:

     (Diary entry) May 12.  A good rain last night, and we caught a good
     deal, though not enough to fill up our tank, pails, &c.  Our object
     is to get out of these doldrums, but it seems as if we cannot do it.
     To-day we have had it very variable, and hope we are on the northern
     edge, thought we are not much above 7 degrees.  This morning we all
     thought we had made out a sail; but it was one of those deceiving
     clouds.  Rained a good deal to-day, making all hands wet and
     uncomfortable; we filled up pretty nearly all our water-pots,
     however.  I hope we may have a fine night, for the captain certainly
     wants rest, and while there is any danger of squalls, or danger of
     any kind, he is always on hand.  I never would have believed that
     open boats such as ours, with their loads, could live in some of the
     seas we have had.

During the night, 12th-13th, 'the cry of A SHIP! brought us to our feet.' It seemed to be the
glimmer of a vessel's signal-lantern rising out of the curve of the sea. There was a season
of breathless hope while they stood watching, with their hands shading their eyes, and their
hearts in their throats; then the promise failed: the light was a rising star. It is a long
time ago--thirty-two years--and it doesn't matter now, yet one is sorry for their disappointment.
'Thought often of those at home to-day, and of the disappointment they will feel next Sunday
at not hearing from us by telegraph from San Francisco.' It will be many weeks yet before the
telegram is received, and it will come as a thunderclap of joy then, and with the seeming of
a miracle, for it will raise from the grave men mourned as dead. 'To-day our rations were reduced
to a quarter of a biscuit a meal, with about half a pint of water.' This is on May 13, with
more than a month of voyaging in front of them yet! However, as they do not know that, 'we
are all feeling pretty cheerful.'

In the afternoon of the 14th there was a thunderstorm, 'which toward night seemed to close
in around us on every side, making it very dark and squally.' 'Our situation is becoming more
and more desperate,' for they were making very little northing 'and every day diminishes our
small stock of provisions.' They realise that the boats must soon separate, and each fight
for its own life. Towing the quarter-boats is a hindering business.

That night and next day, light and baffling winds and but little progress. Hard to bear, that
persistent standing still, and the food wasting away. 'Everything in a perfect sop; and all
so cramped, and no change of clothes.' Soon the sun comes out and roasts them. 'Joe caught
another dolphin to-day; in his maw we found a flying-fish and two skipjacks.' There is an event,
now, which rouses an enthusiasm of hope: a land-bird arrives! It rests on the yard for awhile,
and they can look at it all they like, and envy it, and thank it for its message. As a subject
of talk it is beyond price--a fresh new topic for tongues tired to death of talking upon a
single theme: Shall we ever see the land again; and when? Is the bird from Clipperton Rock?
They hope so; and they take heart of grace to believe so. As it turned out the bird had no
message; it merely came to mock.

May 16, 'the cock still lives, and daily carols forth his praise.' It will be a rainy night,
'but I do not care if we can fill up our water-butts.'

On the 17th one of those majestic spectres of the deep, a water-spout, stalked by them, and
they trembled for their lives. Young Henry set it down in his scanty journal with the judicious
comment that 'it might have been a fine sight from a ship.'

From Captain Mitchell's log for this day: 'Only half a bushel of bread-crumbs left.' (And a
month to wander the seas yet.')

It rained all night and all day; everybody uncomfortable. Now came a sword-fish chasing a bonito;
and the poor thing, seeking help and friends, took refuge under the rudder. The big sword-fish
kept hovering around, scaring everybody badly. The men's mouths watered for him, for he would
have made a whole banquet; but no one dared to touch him, of course, for he would sink a boat
promptly if molested. Providence protected the poor bonito from the cruel sword-fish. This
was just and right. Providence next befriended the shipwrecked sailors: they got the bonito.
This was also just and right. But in the distribution of mercies the sword-fish himself got
overlooked. He now went away; to muse over these subtleties, probably. The men in all the boats
seem pretty well; the feeblest of the sick ones (not able for a long time to stand his watch
on board the ship) 'is wonderfully recovered.' This is the third mate's detected 'Portyghee'
that raised the family of abscesses.

     Passed a most awful night.  Rained hard nearly all the time, and
     blew in squalls, accompanied by terrific thunder and lightning from
     all points of the compass.--Henry's Log.

     Most awful night I ever witnessed.--Captain's Log.

Latitude, May 18, 11 degrees 11 minutes. So they have averaged but forty miles of northing
a day during the fortnight. Further talk of separating. 'Too bad, but it must be done for the
safety of the whole.' 'At first I never dreamed, but now hardly shut my eyes for a cat-nap
without conjuring up something or other--to be accounted for by weakness, I suppose.' But for
their disaster they think they would be arriving in San Francisco about this time. 'I should
have liked to send B---the telegram for her birthday.' This was a young sister.

On the 19th the captain called up the quarter-boats and said one would have to go off on its
own hook. The long-boat could no longer tow both of them. The second mate refused to go, but
the chief mate was ready; in fact, he was always ready when there was a man's work to the fore.
He took the second mate's boat; six of its crew elected to remain, and two of his own crew
came with him (nine in the boat, now, including himself). He sailed away, and toward sunset
passed out of sight. The diarist was sorry to see him go. It was natural; one could have better
spared the 'Portyghee.' After thirty-two years I find my prejudice against this 'Portyghee'
reviving. His very looks have long passed out of my memory; but no matter, I am coming to hate
him as religiously as ever. 'Water will now be a scarce article, for as we get out of the doldrums
we shall get showers only now and then in the trades. This life is telling severely on my strength.
Henry holds out first-rate.' Henry did not start well, but under hardships he improved straight
along.

Latitude, Sunday, May 20, 12 degrees 0 minutes 9 seconds. They ought to be well out of the
doldrums now, but they are not. No breeze--the longed-for trades still missing. They are still
anxiously watching for a sail, but they have only 'visions of ships that come to naught--the
shadow without the substance.' The second mate catches a booby this afternoon, a bird which
consists mainly of feathers; 'but as they have no other meat, it will go well.'

May 21, they strike the trades at last! The second mate catches three more boobies, and gives
the long-boat one. Dinner 'half a can of mincemeat divided up and served around, which strengthened
us somewhat.' They have to keep a man bailing all the time; the hole knocked in the boat when
she was launched from the burning ship was never efficiently mended. 'Heading about north-west
now.' They hope they have easting enough to make some of these indefinite isles. Failing that,
they think they will be in a better position to be picked up. It was an infinitely slender
chance, but the captain probably refrained from mentioning that.

The next day is to be an eventful one.

     (Diary entry) May 22.  Last night wind headed us off, so that part
     of the time we had to steer east-south-east and then
     west-north-west, and so on.  This morning we were all startled by a
     cry of 'SAIL HO!' Sure enough, we could see it!  And for a time we
     cut adrift from the second mate's boat, and steered so as to
     attract its attention.  This was about half-past five A.M.  After
     sailing in a state of high excitement for almost twenty minutes we
     made it out to be the chief mate's boat.  Of course we were glad to
     see them and have them report all well; but still it was a bitter
     disappointment to us all.  Now that we are in the trades it seems
     impossible to make northing enough to strike the isles.  We have
     determined to do the best we can, and get in the route of vessels.
     Such being the determination, it became necessary to cast off the
     other boat, which, after a good deal of unpleasantness, was done,
     we again dividing water and stores, and taking Cox into our boat.
     This makes our number fifteen.  The second mate's crew wanted to
     all get in with us, and cast the other boat adrift.  It was a very
     painful separation.

So these isles that they have struggled for so long and so hopefully have to be given up. What
with lying birds that come to mock, and isles that are but a dream, and 'visions of ships that
come to naught,' it is a pathetic time they are having, with much heartbreak in it. It was
odd that the vanished boat, three days lost to sight in that vast solitude, should appear again.
But it brought Cox--we can't be certain why. But if it hadn't, the diarist would never have
seen the land again.

     (Diary entry) Our chances as we go west increase in regard to being
     picked up, but each day our scanty fare is so much reduced.  Without
     the fish, turtle, and birds sent us, I do not know how we should
     have got along.  The other day I offered to read prayers morning and
     evening for the captain, and last night commenced.  The men,
     although of various nationalities and religions, are very attentive,
     and always uncovered.  May God grant my weak endeavour its issue!

     Latitude, May 24, 14 degrees 18 minutes N.  Five oysters apiece for
     dinner and three spoonfuls of juice, a gill of water, and a piece of
     biscuit the size of a silver dollar.  'We are plainly getting
     weaker--God have mercy upon us all!' That night heavy seas break
     over the weather side and make everybody wet and uncomfortable
     besides requiring constant baling.

Next day 'nothing particular happened.' Perhaps some of us would have regarded it differently.
'Passed a spar, but not near enough to see what it was.' They saw some whales blow; there were
flying-fish skimming the seas, but none came aboard. Misty weather, with fine rain, very penetrating.

Latitude, May 26, 15 degrees 50 minutes. They caught a flying-fish and a booby, but had to
eat them raw. 'The men grow weaker, and, I think, despondent; they say very little, though.'
And so, to all the other imaginable and unimaginable horrors, silence is added--the muteness
and brooding of coming despair. 'It seems our best chance to get in the track of ships with
the hope that some one will run near enough to our speck to see it.' He hopes the other boards
stood west and have been picked up. (They will never be heard of again in this world.)

     (Diary entry) Sunday, May 27, Latitude 16 degrees 0 minutes 5
     seconds; longitude, by chronometer, 117 degrees 22 minutes.  Our
     fourth Sunday!  When we left the ship we reckoned on having about
     ten days' supplies, and now we hope to be able, by rigid economy, to
     make them last another week if possible.(1)  Last night the sea was
     comparatively quiet, but the wind headed us off to about
     west-north-west, which has been about our course all day to-day.
     Another flying-fish came aboard last night, and one more to-day
     --both small ones.  No birds.  A booby is a great catch, and a good
     large one makes a small dinner for the fifteen of us--that is, of
     course, as dinners go in the 'Hornet's' long-boat.  Tried this
     morning to read the full service to myself, with the Communion, but
     found it too much; am too weak, and get sleepy, and cannot give
     strict attention; so I put off half till this afternoon.  I trust
     God will hear the prayers gone up for us at home to-day, and
     graciously answer them by sending us succour and help in this our
     season of deep distress.

The next day was 'a good day for seeing a ship.' But none was seen. The diarist 'still feels
pretty well,' though very weak; his brother Henry 'bears up and keeps his strength the best
of any on board.' 'I do not feel despondent at all, for I fully trust that the Almighty will
hear our and the home prayers, and He who suffers not a sparrow to fall sees and cares for
us, His creatures.'

Considering the situation and circumstances, the record for next day, May 29, is one which
has a surprise in it for those dull people who think that nothing but medicines and doctors
can cure the sick. A little starvation can really do more for the average sick man than can
the best medicines and the best doctors. I do not mean a restricted diet; I mean total abstention
from food for one or two days. I speak from experience; starvation has been my cold and fever
doctor for fifteen years, and has accomplished a cure in all instances. The third mate told
me in Honolulu that the 'Portyghee' had lain in his hammock for months, raising his family
of abscesses and feeding like a cannibal. We have seen that in spite of dreadful weather, deprivation
of sleep, scorching, drenching, and all manner of miseries, thirteen days of starvation 'wonderfully
recovered' him. There were four sailors down sick when the ship was burned. Twenty-five days
of pitiless starvation have followed, and now we have this curious record: 'All the men are
hearty and strong; even the ones that were down sick are well, except poor Peter.' When I wrote
an article some months ago urging temporary abstention from food as a remedy for an inactive
appetite and for disease, I was accused of jesting, but I was in earnest. 'We are all wonderfully
well and strong, comparatively speaking.' On this day the starvation regime drew its belt a
couple of buckle-holes tighter: the bread ration was reduced from the usual piece of cracker
the size of a silver dollar to the half of that, and one meal was abolished from the daily
three. This will weaken the men physically, but if there are any diseases of an ordinary sort
left in them they will disappear.

     Two quarts bread-crumbs left, one-third of a ham, three small cans
     of oysters, and twenty gallons of water.--Captain's Log.

The hopeful tone of the diaries is persistent. It is remarkable. Look at the map and see where
the boat is: latitude 16 degrees 44 minutes, longitude 119 degrees 20 minutes. It is more than
two hundred miles west of the Revillagigedo Islands, so they are quite out of the question
against the trades, rigged as this boat is. The nearest land available for such a boat is the
American group, six hundred and fifty miles away, westward; still, there is no note of surrender,
none even of discouragement! Yet, May 30, 'we have now left: one can of oysters; three pounds
of raisins; one can of soup; one-third of a ham; three pints of biscuit-crumbs.'

And fifteen starved men to live on it while they creep and crawl six hundred and fifty miles.
'Somehow I feel much encouraged by this change of course (west by north) which we have made
to-day.' Six hundred and fifty miles on a hatful of provisions. Let us be thankful, even after
thirty-two years, that they are mercifully ignorant of the fact that it isn't six hundred and
fifty that they must creep on the hatful, but twenty-two hundred!

Isn't the situation romantic enough just as it stands? No. Providence added a startling detail:
pulling an oar in that boat, for common seaman's wages, was a banished duke--Danish. We hear
no more of him; just that mention, that is all, with the simple remark added that 'he is one
of our best men'--a high enough compliment for a duke or any other man in those manhood-testing
circumstances. With that little glimpse of him at his oar, and that fine word of praise, he
vanishes out of our knowledge for all time. For all time, unless he should chance upon this
note and reveal himself.

The last day of May is come. And now there is a disaster to report: think of it, reflect upon
it, and try to understand how much it means, when you sit down with your family and pass your
eye over your breakfast-table. Yesterday there were three pints of bread-crumbs; this morning
the little bag is found open and some of the crumbs are missing. 'We dislike to suspect any
one of such a rascally act, but there is no question that this grave crime has been committed.
Two days will certainly finish the remaining morsels. God grant us strength to reach the American
group!' The third mate told me in Honolulu that in these days the men remembered with bitterness
that the 'Portyghee' had devoured twenty-two days' rations while he lay waiting to be transferred
from the burning ship, and that now they cursed him and swore an oath that if it came to cannibalism
he should be the first to suffer for the rest.

     (Diary entry) The captain has lost his glasses, and therefore he
     cannot read our pocket prayer-books as much as I think he would
     like, though he is not familiar with them.

Further of the captain: 'He is a good man, and has been most kind to us--almost fatherly. He
says that if he had been offered the command of the ship sooner he should have brought his
two daughters with him.' It makes one shudder yet to think how narrow an escape it was.

     The two meals (rations) a day are as follows: fourteen raisins and a
     piece of cracker the size of a penny for tea; a gill of water, and a
     piece of ham and a piece of bread, each the size of a penny, for
     breakfast.--Captain's Log.

He means a penny in thickness as well as in circumference. Samuel Ferguson's diary says the
ham was shaved 'about as thin as it could be cut.'

     (Diary entry) June 1.  Last night and to-day sea very high and
     cobbling, breaking over and making us all wet and cold.  Weather
     squally, and there is no doubt that only careful management--with
     God's protecting care--preserved us through both the night and the
     day; and really it is most marvellous how every morsel that passes
     our lips is blessed to us.  It makes me think daily of the miracle
     of the loaves and fishes.  Henry keeps up wonderfully, which is a
     great consolation to me.  I somehow have great confidence, and hope
     that our afflictions will soon be ended, though we are running
     rapidly across the track of both outward and inward bound vessels,
     and away from them; our chief hope is a whaler, man-of-war, or some
     Australian ship.  The isles we are steering for are put down in
     Bowditch, but on my map are said to be doubtful.  God grant they may
     be there!

     Hardest day yet.--Captain's Log.

Doubtful! It was worse than that. A week later they sailed straight over them.

     (Diary entry) June 2.  Latitude 18 degrees 9 minutes.  Squally,
     cloudy, a heavy sea....  I cannot help thinking of the cheerful and
     comfortable time we had aboard the 'Hornet.'

     Two days' scanty supplies left--ten rations of water apiece and a
     little morsel of bread.  BUT THE SUN SHINES AND GOD IS MERCIFUL.
     --Captain's Log.

     (Diary entry) Sunday, June 3.  Latitude 17 degrees 54 minutes.
     Heavy sea all night, and from 4 A.M.  very wet, the sea breaking
     over us in frequent sluices, and soaking everything aft,
     particularly.  All day the sea has been very high, and it is a
     wonder that we are not swamped.  Heaven grant that it may go down
     this evening!  Our suspense and condition are getting terrible.  I
     managed this morning to crawl, more than step, to the forward end of
     the boat, and was surprised to find that I was so weak, especially
     in the legs and knees.  The sun has been out again, and I have dried
     some things, and hope for a better night.

     June 4.  Latitude 17 degrees 6 minutes, longitude 131 degrees 30
     minutes.  Shipped hardly any seas last night, and to-day the sea has
     gone down somewhat, although it is still too high for comfort, as we
     have an occasional reminder that water is wet.  The sun has been out
     all day, and so we have had a good drying.  I have been trying for
     the last ten or twelve days to get a pair of drawers dry enough to
     put on, and to-day at last succeeded.  I mention this to show the
     state in which we have lived.  If our chronometer is anywhere near
     right, we ought to see the American Isles to-morrow or next day.  If
     there are not there, we have only the chance, for a few days, of a
     stray ship, for we cannot eke out the provisions more than five or
     six days longer, and our strength is failing very fast.  I was much
     surprised to-day to note how my legs have wasted away above my
     knees: they are hardly thicker than my upper arm used to be.  Still,
     I trust in God's infinite mercy, and feel sure he will do what is
     best for us.  To survive, as we have done, thirty-two days in an
     open boat, with only about ten days' fair provisions for thirty-one
     men in the first place, and these divided twice subsequently, is
     more than mere unassisted HUMAN art and strength could have
     accomplished and endured.

     Bread and raisins all gone.--Captain's Log.

     Men growing dreadfully discontented, and awful grumbling and
     unpleasant talk is arising.  God save us from all strife of men; and
     if we must die now, take us himself, and not embitter our bitter
     death still more.--Henry's Log.

     (Diary entry) June 5.  Quiet night and pretty comfortable day,
     though our sail and block show signs of failing, and need taking
     down--which latter is something of a job, as it requires the
     climbing of the mast.  We also had news from forward, there being
     discontent and some threatening complaints of unfair allowances,
     etc., all as unreasonable as foolish; still, these things bid us be
     on our guard.  I am getting miserably weak, but try to keep up the
     best I can.  If we cannot find those isles we can only try to make
     north-west and get in the track of Sandwich Island-bound vessels,
     living as best we can in the meantime.  To-day we changed to one
     meal, and that at about noon, with a small ration or water at 8 or 9
     A.M., another at 12 A.M., and a third at 5 or 6 P.M.

     Nothing left but a little piece of ham and a gill of water, all
     around.--Captain's Log.

They are down to one meal a day now--such as it is--and fifteen hundred miles to crawl yet!
And now the horrors deepen, and, though they escaped actual mutiny, the attitude of the men
became alarming. Now we seem to see why that curious incident happened, so long ago; I mean
Cox's return, after he had been far away and out of sight several days in the chief mate's
boat. If he had not come back the captain and the two young passengers might have been slain,
now, by these sailors, who were becoming crazed through their sufferings.

     NOTE SECRETLY PASSED BY HENRY TO HIS BROTHER:

     Cox told me last night that there is getting to be a good deal of
     ugly talk among the men against the captain and us aft.  They say
     that the captain is the cause of all; that he did not try to save
     the ship at all, nor to get provisions, and that even would not let
     the men put in some they had; and that partiality is shown us in
     apportioning our rations aft.... asked Cox the other day if he
     would starve first or eat human flesh.  Cox answered he would
     starve.... then told him he would only be killing himself.  If we
     do not find those islands we would do well to prepare for anything.
  .... is the loudest of all.

     REPLY:

     We can depend on... I think, and... and Cox, can we not?

     SECOND NOTE:

     I guess so, and very likely on...; but there is no telling... and
     Cox are certain.  There is nothing definite said or hinted as yet,
     as I understand Cox; but starving men are the same as maniacs.  It
     would be well to keep a watch on your pistol, so as to have it and
     the cartridges safe from theft.

     Henry's Log, June 5.  Dreadful forebodings.  God spare us from all
     such horrors!  Some of the men getting to talk a good deal.  Nothing
     to write down.  Heart very sad.

     Henry's Log, June 6.  Passed some sea-weed and something that looked
     like the trunk of an old tree, but no birds; beginning to be afraid
     islands not there.  To-day it was said to the captain, in the
     hearing of all, that some of the men would not shrink, when a man
     was dead, from using the flesh, though they would not kill.
     Horrible!  God give us all full use of our reason, and spare us from
     such things!  'From plague, pestilence, and famine; from battle and
     murder, and from sudden death, good Lord, deliver us!'

     (Diary entry) June 6.  Latitude 16 degrees 30 minutes, longitude
     (chron.) 134 degrees.  Dry night and wind steady enough to require
     no change in sail; but this A.M.  an attempt to lower it proved
     abortive.  First the third mate tried and got up to the block, and
     fastened a temporary arrangement to reeve the halyards through, but
     had to come down, weak and almost fainting, before finishing; then
     Joe tried, and after twice ascending, fixed it and brought down the
     block; but it was very exhausting work, and afterward he was good
     for nothing all day.  The clue-iron which we are trying to make
     serve for the broken block works, however, very indifferently, and
     will, I am afraid, soon cut the rope.  It is very necessary to get
     everything connected with the sail in good easy running order before
     we get too weak to do anything with it.

     Only three meals left.--Captain's Log.

     (Diary entry) June 7.  Latitude 16 degrees 35 minutes N., longitude
     136 degrees 30 minutes W.  Night wet and uncomfortable.  To-day
     shows us pretty conclusively that the American Isles are not there,
     though we have had some signs that looked like them.  At noon we
     decided to abandon looking any farther for them, and to-night haul a
     little more northerly, so as to get in the way of Sandwich Island
     vessels, which fortunately come down pretty well this way--say to
     latitude 19 degrees to 20 degrees to get the benefit of the
     trade-winds.  Of course all the westing we have made is gain, and I
     hope the chronometer is wrong in our favour, for I do not see how
     any such delicate instrument can keep good time with the constant
     jarring and thumping we get from the sea.  With the strong trade we
     have, I hope that a week from Sunday will put us in sight of the
     Sandwich Islands, if we are not safe by that time by being picked
     up.

It is twelve hundred miles to the Sandwich Islands; the provisions are virtually exhausted,
but not the perishing diarist's pluck.

     (Diary entry) My cough troubled me a good deal last night, and
     therefore I got hardly any sleep at all.  Still, I make out pretty
     well, and should not complain.  Yesterday the third mate mended the
     block, and this P.M.  the sail, after some difficulty, was got down,
     and Harry got to the top of the mast and rove the halyards through
     after some hardship, so that it now works easy and well.  This
     getting up the mast is no easy matter at any time with the sea we
     have, and is very exhausting in our present state.  We could only
     reward Harry by an extra ration of water.  We have made good time
     and course to-day.  Heading her up, however, makes the boat ship
     seas and keeps us all wet; however, it cannot be helped.  Writing is
     a rather precarious thing these times.  Our meal to-day for the
     fifteen consists of half a can of 'soup and boullie'; the other half
     is reserved for to-morrow.  Henry still keeps up grandly, and is a
     great favourite.  God grant he may be spared.

     A better feeling prevails among the men.--Captain's Log.

     (Diary entry) June 9.  Latitude 17 degrees 53 minutes.  Finished
     to-day, I may say, our whole stack of provisions.(2)  We have only
     left a lower end of a ham-bone, with some of the outer rind and
     skin on. In regard to the water, however, I think we have got ten
     days' supply at our present rate of allowance.  This, with what
     nourishment we can get from boot-legs and such chewable matter, we
     hope will enable us to weather it out till we get to the Sandwich
     Islands, or, sailing in the meantime in the track of vessels
     thither bound, be picked up.  My hope is in the latter, for in all
     human probability I cannot stand the other.  Still, we have been
     marvellously protected, and God, I hope, will preserve us all in
     His own good time and way.  The men are getting weaker, but are
     still quiet and orderly.

     (Diary entry) Sunday, June 10.  Latitude 18 degrees 40 minutes,
     longitude 142 degrees 34 minutes.  A pretty good night last night,
     with some wettings, and again another beautiful Sunday.  I cannot
     but think how we should all enjoy it at home, and what a contrast is
     here!  How terrible their suspense must begin to be!  God grant that
     it may be relieved before very long, and He certainly seems to be
     with us in everything we do, and has preserved this boat
     miraculously; for since we left the ship we have sailed considerably
     over three thousand miles, which, taking into consideration our
     meagre stock of provisions, is almost unprecedented.  As yet I do
     not feel the stint of food so much as I do that of water.  Even
     Henry, who is naturally a good water-drinker, can save half of his
     allowance from time to time, when I cannot.  My diseased throat may
     have something to do with that, however.

Nothing is now left which by any flattery can be called food. But they must manage somehow
for five days more, for at noon they have still eight hundred miles to go. It is a race for
life now.

This is no time for comments or other interruptions from me--every moment is valuable. I will
take up the boy brother's diary at this point, and clear the seas before it and let it fly.

     HENRY FERGUSON'S LOG:

     Sunday, June 10.  Our ham-bone has given us a taste of food to-day,
     and we have got left a little meat and the remainder of the bone for
     tomorrow.  Certainly, never was there such a sweet knuckle-one, or
     one that was so thoroughly appreciated....  I do not know that I
     feel any worse than I did last Sunday, notwithstanding the reduction
     of diet; and I trust that we may all have strength given us to
     sustain the sufferings and hardships of the coming week.  We
     estimate that we are within seven hundred miles of the Sandwich
     Islands, and that our average, daily, is somewhat over a hundred
     miles, so that our hopes have some foundation in reason.  Heaven
     send we may all live to see land!

     June 11.  Ate the meat and rind of our ham-bone, and have the bone
     and the greasy cloth from around the ham left to eat to-morrow.  God
     send us birds or fish, and let us not perish of hunger, or be
     brought to the dreadful alternative of feeding on human flesh!  As I
     feel now, I do not think anything could persuade me; but you cannot
     tell what you will do when you are reduced by hunger and your mind
     wandering.  I hope and pray we can make out to reach the islands
     before we get to this strait; but we have one or two desperate men
     aboard, though they are quiet enough now.  IT IS MY FIRM TRUST AND
     BELIEF THAT WE ARE GOING TO BE SAVED.

     All food gone.--Captain's Log.(3)

(Ferguson's log continues)

     June 12.  Stiff breeze, and we are fairly flying--dead ahead of it
     --and toward the islands.  Good hope, but the prospects of hunger are
     awful.  Ate ham-bone to-day.  It is the captain's birthday; he is
     fifty-four years old.

     June 13.  The ham-rags are not quite all gone yet, and the
     boot-legs, we find, are very palatable after we get the salt out of
     them. A little smoke, I think, does some little good; but I don't
     know.

     June 14.  Hunger does not pain us much, but we are dreadfully weak.
     Our water is getting frightfully low.  God grant we may see land
     soon!  NOTHING TO EAT, but feel better than I did yesterday.  Toward
     evening saw a magnificent rainbow--THE FIRST WE HAD SEEN.  Captain
     said, 'Cheer up, boys; it's a prophecy--IT'S THE BOW OF PROMISE!'

     June 15.  God be for ever praised for His infinite mercy!  LAND IN
     SIGHT!  rapidly neared it and soon were SURE of it....  Two noble
     Kanakas swam out and took the boat ashore.  We were joyfully
     received by two white men--Mr. Jones and his steward Charley--and a
     crowd of native men, women, and children.  They treated us
     splendidly--aided us, and carried us up the bank, and brought us
     water, poi, bananas, and green coconuts; but the white men took care
     of us and prevented those who would have eaten too much from doing
     so.  Everybody overjoyed to see us, and all sympathy expressed in
     faces, deeds, and words.  We were then helped up to the house; and
     help we needed.  Mr. Jones and Charley are the only white men here.
     Treated us splendidly.  Gave us first about a teaspoonful of spirits
     in water, and then to each a cup of warm tea, with a little bread.
     Takes EVERY care of us.  Gave us later another cup of tea, and bread
     the same, and then let us go to rest.  IT IS THE HAPPIEST DAY OF MY
     LIFE....  God in His mercy has heard our prayer....  Everybody is so
     kind.  Words cannot tell.

     June 16.  Mr. Jones gave us a delightful bed, and we surely had a
     good night's rest; but not sleep--we were too happy to sleep; would
     keep the reality and not let it turn to a delusion--dreaded that we
     might wake up and find ourselves in the boat again.

It is an amazing adventure. There is nothing of its sort in history that surpasses it in impossibilities
made possible. In one extraordinary detail--the survival of every person in the boat--it probably
stands alone in the history of adventures of its kinds. Usually merely a part of a boat's company
survive--officers, mainly, and other educated and tenderly-reared men, unused to hardship and
heavy labour; the untrained, roughly-reared hard workers succumb. But in this case even the
rudest and roughest stood the privations and miseries of the voyage almost as well as did the
college-bred young brothers and the captain. I mean, physically. The minds of most of the sailors
broke down in the fourth week and went to temporary ruin, but physically the endurance exhibited
was astonishing. Those men did not survive by any merit of their own, of course, but by merit
of the character and intelligence of the captain; they lived by the mastery of his spirit.
Without him they would have been children without a nurse; they would have exhausted their
provisions in a week, and their pluck would not have lasted even as long as the provisions.

The boat came near to being wrecked at the last. As it approached the shore the sail was let
go, and came down with a run; then the captain saw that he was drifting swiftly toward an ugly
reef, and an effort was made to hoist the sail again; but it could not be done; the men's strength
was wholly exhausted; they could not even pull an oar. They were helpless, and death imminent.
It was then that they were discovered by the two Kanakas who achieved the rescue. They swam
out and manned the boat, and piloted her through a narrow and hardly noticeable break in the
reef--the only break in it in a stretch of thirty-five miles! The spot where the landing was
made was the only one in that stretch where footing could have been found on the shore; everywhere
else precipices came sheer down into forty fathoms of water. Also, in all that stretch this
was the only spot where anybody lived.

Within ten days after the landing all the men but one were up and creeping about. Properly,
they ought to have killed themselves with the 'food' of the last few days--some of them, at
any rate--men who had freighted their stomachs with strips of leather from old boots and with
chips from the butter cask; a freightage which they did not get rid of by digestion, but by
other means. The captain and the two passengers did not eat strips and chips, as the sailors
did, but scraped the boot-leather and the wood, and made a pulp of the scrapings by moistening
them with water. The third mate told me that the boots were old and full of holes; then added
thoughtfully, 'but the holes digested the best.' Speaking of digestion, here is a remarkable
thing, and worth nothing: during this strange voyage, and for a while afterward on shore, the
bowels of some of the men virtually ceased from their functions; in some cases there was no
action for twenty and thirty days, and in one case for forty-four! Sleeping also came to be
rare. Yet the men did very well without it. During many days the captain did not sleep at all--twenty-one,
I think, on one stretch.

When the landing was made, all the men were successfully protected from over-eating except
the 'Portyghee;' he escaped the watch and ate an incredible number of bananas: a hundred and
fifty-two, the third mate said, but this was undoubtedly an exaggeration; I think it was a
hundred and fifty-one. He was already nearly half full of leather; it was hanging out of his
ears. (I do not state this on the third mate's authority, for we have seen what sort of a person
he was; I state it on my own.) The 'Portyghee' ought to have died, of course, and even now
it seems a pity that he didn't; but he got well, and as early as any of them; and all full
of leather, too, the way he was, and butter-timber and handkerchiefs and bananas. Some of the
men did eat handkerchiefs in those last days, also socks; and he was one of them.

It is to the credit of the men that they did not kill the rooster that crowed so gallantly
mornings. He lived eighteen days, and then stood up and stretched his neck and made a brave,
weak effort to do his duty once more, and died in the act. It is a picturesque detail; and
so is that rainbow, too--the only one seen in the forty-three days,--raising its triumphal
arch in the skies for the sturdy fighters to sail under to victory and rescue.

With ten days' provisions Captain Josiah Mitchell performed this memorable voyage of forty-three
days and eight hours in an open boat, sailing four thousand miles in reality and thirty-three
hundred and sixty by direct courses, and brought every man safe to land. A bright, simple-hearted,
unassuming, plucky, and most companionable man. I walked the deck with him twenty-eight days--when
I was not copying diaries,--and I remember him with reverent honour. If he is alive he is eighty-six
years old now.

If I remember rightly, Samuel Ferguson died soon after we reached San Francisco. I do not think
he lived to see his home again; his disease had been seriously aggravated by his hardships.

For a time it was hoped that the two quarter-boats would presently be heard of, but this hope
suffered disappointment. They went down with all on board, no doubt, not even sparing that
knightly chief mate.

The authors of the diaries allowed me to copy them exactly as they were written, and the extracts
that I have given are without any smoothing over or revision. These diaries are finely modest
and unaffected, and with unconscious and unintentional art they rise toward the climax with
graduated and gathering force and swing and dramatic intensity; they sweep you along with a
cumulative rush, and when the cry rings out at last, 'Land in sight!' your heart is in your
mouth, and for a moment you think it is you that have been saved. The last two paragraphs are
not improvable by anybody's art; they are literary gold; and their very pauses and uncompleted
sentences have in them an eloquence not reachable by any words.

The interest of this story is unquenchable; it is of the sort that time cannot decay. I have
not looked at the diaries for thirty-two years, but I find that they have lost nothing in that
time. Lost? They have gained; for by some subtle law all tragic human experiences gain in pathos
by the perspective of time. We realize this when in Naples we stand musing over the poor Pompeian
mother, lost in the historic storm of volcanic ashes eighteen centuries ago, who lies with
her child gripped close to her breast, trying to save it, and whose despair and grief have
been preserved for us by the fiery envelope which took her life but eternalized her form and
features. She moves us, she haunts us, she stays in our thoughts for many days, we do not know
why, for she is nothing to us, she has been nothing to anyone for eighteen centuries; whereas
of the like case to-day we should say, 'Poor thing! it is pitiful,' and forget it in an hour.

(1) There are nineteen days of voyaging ahead yet.--M.T.

(2) Six days to sail yet, nevertheless.--M.T.

(3) It was at this time discovered that the crazed sailors had gotten the delusion that the
captain had a million dollars in gold concealed aft, and they were conspiring to kill him and
the two passengers and seize it.--M.T.

AT THE APPETITE-CURE

This establishment's name is Hochberghaus. It is in Bohemia, a short day's journey from Vienna,
and being in the Austrian Empire is of course a health resort. The empire is made up of health
resorts; it distributes health to the whole world. Its waters are all medicinal. They are bottled
and sent throughout the earth; the natives themselves drink beer. This is self-sacrifice apparently--but
outlanders who have drunk Vienna beer have another idea about it. Particularly the Pilsner
which one gets in a small cellar up an obscure back lane in the First Bezirk--the name has
escaped me, but the place is easily found: You inquire for the Greek church; and when you get
to it, go right along by--the next house is that little beer-mill. It is remote from all traffic
and all noise; it is always Sunday there. There are two small rooms, with low ceilings supported
by massive arches; the arches and ceilings are whitewashed, otherwise the rooms would pass
for cells in the dungeons of a bastile. The furniture is plain and cheap, there is no ornamentation
anywhere; yet it is a heaven for the self-sacrificers, for the beer there is incomparable;
there is nothing like it elsewhere in the world. In the first room you will find twelve or
fifteen ladies and gentlemen of civilian quality; in the other one a dozen generals and ambassadors.
One may live in Vienna many months and not hear of this place; but having once heard of it
and sampled it, the sampler will afterward infest it.

However, this is all incidental--a mere passing note of gratitude for blessings received--it
has nothing to do with my subject. My subject is health resorts. All unhealthy people ought
to domicile themselves in Vienna, and use that as a base, making flights from time to time
to the outlying resorts, according to need. A flight to Marienbad to get rid of fat; a flight
to Carlsbad to get rid of rheumatism; a flight to Kalteneutgeben to take the water cure and
get rid of the rest of the diseases. It is all so handy. You can stand in Vienna and toss a
biscuit into Kaltenleutgeben, with a twelve-inch gun. You can run out thither at any time of
the day; you go by phenomenally slow trains, and yet inside of an hour you have exchanged the
glare and swelter of the city for wooded hills, and shady forest paths, and soft cool airs,
and the music of birds, and the repose and the peace of paradise.

And there are plenty of other health resorts at your service and convenient to get at from
Vienna; charming places, all of them; Vienna sits in the centre of a beautiful world of mountains
with now and then a lake and forests; in fact, no other city is so fortunately situated.

There is an abundance of health resorts, as I have said. Among them this place--Hochberghaus.
It stands solitary on the top of a densely wooded mountain, and is a building of great size.
It is called the Appetite Anstallt, and people who have lost their appetites come here to get
them restored. When I arrived I was taken by Professor Haimberger to his consulting-room and
questioned:

'It is six o'clock. When did you eat last?'

'At noon.'

'What did you eat?'

'Next to nothing.'

'What was on the table?'

'The usual things.'

'Chops, chickens, vegetables, and so on?'

'Yes; but don't mention them--I can't bear it.'

'Are you tired of them?'

'Oh, utterly. I wish I might never hear of them again.'

'The mere sight of food offends you, does it?'

'More, it revolts me.'

The doctor considered awhile, then got out a long menu and ran his eye slowly down it.

'I think,' said he, 'that what you need to eat is--but here, choose for yourself.'

I glanced at the list, and my stomach threw a hand-spring. Of all the barbarous lay-outs that
were ever contrived, this was the most atrocious. At the top stood 'tough, underdone, overdue
tripe, garnished with garlic;' half-way down the bill stood 'young cat; old cat; scrambled
cat;' at the bottom stood 'sailor-boots, softened with tallow--served raw.' The wide intervals
of the bill were packed with dishes calculated to gag a cannibal. I said:

'Doctor, it is not fair to joke over so serious a case as mine. I came here to get an appetite,
not to throw away the remnant that's left.'

He said gravely: 'I am not joking; why should I joke?'

'But I can't eat these horrors.'

'Why not?'

He said it with a naivete that was admirable, whether it was real or assumed.

'Why not? Because--why, doctor, for months I have seldom been able to endure anything more
substantial than omelettes and custards. These unspeakable dishes of yours--'

'Oh, you will come to like them. They are very good. And you must eat them. It is a rule of
the place, and is strict. I cannot permit any departure from it.'

I said smiling: 'Well, then, doctor, you will have to permit the departure of the patient.
I am going.'

He looked hurt, and said in a way which changed the aspect of things:

'I am sure you would not do me that injustice. I accepted you in good faith--you will not shame
that confidence. This appetite-cure is my whole living. If you should go forth from it with
the sort of appetite which you now have, it could become known, and you can see, yourself,
that people would say my cure failed in your case and hence can fail in other cases. You will
not go; you will not do me this hurt.'

I apologised and said I would stay.

'That is right. I was sure you would not go; it would take the food from my family's mouths.'

'Would they mind that? Do they eat these fiendish things?'

'They? My family?' His eyes were full of gentle wonder. 'Of course not.'

'Oh, they don't! Do you?'

'Certainly not.'

'I see. It's another case of a physician who doesn't take his own medicine.'

'I don't need it. It is six hours since you lunched. Will you have supper now--or later?'

'I am not hungry, but now is as good a time as any, and I would like to be done with it and
have it off my mind. It is about my usual time, and regularity is commanded by all the authorities.
Yes, I will try to nibble a little now--I wish a light horsewhipping would answer instead.'

The professor handed me that odious menu.

'Choose--or will you have it later?'

'Oh, dear me, show me to my room; I forgot your hard rule.'

'Wait just a moment before you finally decide. There is another rule. If you choose now, the
order will be filled at once; but if you wait, you will have to await my pleasure. You cannot
get a dish from that entire bill until I consent.'

'All right. Show me to my room, and send the cook to bed; there is not going to be any hurry.'

The professor took me up one flight of stairs and showed me into a most inviting and comfortable
apartment consisting of parlour, bedchamber, and bathroom.

The front windows looked out over a far-reaching spread of green glades and valleys, and tumbled
hills clothed with forests--a noble solitude unvexed by the fussy world. In the parlour were
many shelves filled with books. The professor said he would now leave me to myself; and added:

'Smoke and read as much as you please, drink all the water you like. When you get hungry, ring
and give your order, and I will decide whether it shall be filled or not. Yours is a stubborn,
bad case, and I think the first fourteen dishes in the bill are each and all too delicate for
its needs. I ask you as a favour to restrain yourself and not call for them.'

'Restrain myself, is it? Give yourself no uneasiness. You are going to save money by me. The
idea of coaxing a sick man's appetite back with this buzzard-fare is clear insanity.'

I said it with bitterness, for I felt outraged by this calm, cold talk over these heartless
new engines of assassination. The doctor looked grieved, but not offended. He laid the bill
of fare of the commode at my bed's head, 'so that it would be handy,' and said:

'Yours is not the worst case I have encountered, by any means; still it is a bad one and requires
robust treatment; therefore I shall be gratified if you will restrain yourself and skip down
to No. 15 and begin with that.'

Then he left me and I began to undress, for I was dog-tired and very sleepy. I slept fifteen
hours and woke up finely refreshed at ten the next morning. Vienna coffee! It was the first
thing I thought of--that unapproachable luxury--that sumptuous coffee-house coffee, compared
with which all other European coffee and all American hotel coffee is mere fluid poverty. I
rang, and ordered it; also Vienna bread, that delicious invention. The servant spoke through
the wicket in the door and said--but you know what he said. He referred me to the bill of fare.
I allowed him to go--I had no further use for him.

After the bath I dressed and started for a walk, and got as far as the door. It was locked
on the outside. I rang, and the servant came and explained that it was another rule. The seclusion
of the patient was required until after the first meal. I had not been particularly anxious
to get out before; but it was different now. Being locked in makes a person wishful to get
out. I soon began to find it difficult to put in the time. At two o'clock I had been twenty-six
hours without food. I had been growing hungry for some time; I recognised that I was not only
hungry now, but hungry with a strong adjective in front of it. Yet I was not hungry enough
to face the bill of fare.

I must put in the time somehow. I would read and smoke. I did it; hour by hour. The books were
all of one breed--shipwrecks; people lost in deserts; people shut up in caved-in mines; people
starving in besieged cities. I read about all the revolting dishes that ever famishing men
had stayed their hunger with. During the first hours these things nauseated me: hours followed
in which they did not so affect me; still other hours followed in which I found myself smacking
my lips over some tolerably infernal messes. When I had been without food forty-five hours
I ran eagerly to the bell and ordered the second dish in the bill, which was a sort of dumplings
containing a compost made of caviar and tar.

It was refused me. During the next fifteen hours I visited the bell every now and then and
ordered a dish that was further down the list. Always a refusal. But I was conquering prejudice
after prejudice, right along; I was making sure progress; I was creeping up on No. 15 with
deadly certainty, and my heart beat faster and faster, my hopes rose higher and higher.

At last when food had not passed my lips for sixty hours, victory was mine, and I ordered No. 15:

'Soft-boiled spring chicken--in the egg; six dozen, hot and fragrant!'

In fifteen minutes it was there; and the doctor along with it, rubbing his hands with joy.
He said with great excitement:

'It's a cure, it's a cure! I knew I could do it. Dear sir, my grand system never failed--never.
You've got your appetite back--you know you have; say it and make me happy.'

'Bring on your carrion--I can eat anything in the bill!'

'Oh, this is noble, this is splendid--but I knew I could do it, the system never fails. How
are the birds?'

'Never was anything so delicious in the world; and yet as a rule I don't care for game. But
don't interrupt me, don't--I can't spare my mouth, I really can't.'

Then the doctor said:

'The cure is perfect. There is no more doubt nor danger. Let the poultry alone; I can trust
you with a beefsteak, now.'

The beefsteak came--as much as a basketful of it--with potatoes, and Vienna bread and coffee;
and I ate a meal then that was worth all the costly preparation I had made for it. And dripped
tears of gratitude into the gravy all the time--gratitude to the doctor for putting a little
plain common-sense into me when I had been empty of it so many, many years.

II

Thirty years ago Haimberger went off on a long voyage in a sailing-ship. There were fifteen
passengers on board. The table-fare was of the regulation pattern of the day: At 7 in the morning,
a cup of bad coffee in bed; at 9, breakfast: bad coffee, with condensed milk; soggy rolls,
crackers, salt fish; at 1 P.M., luncheon: cold tongue, cold ham, cold corned beef, soggy cold
rolls, crackers; 5 P.M., dinner: thick pea soup, salt fish, hot corned beef and sour kraut,
boiled pork and beans, pudding; 9 till 11 P.M., supper: tea, with condensed milk, cold tongue,
cold ham, pickles, sea-biscuit, pickled oysters, pickled pigs' feet, grilled bones, golden buck.

At the end of the first week eating had ceased, nibbling had taken its place. The passengers
came to the table, but it was partly to put in the time, and partly because the wisdom of the
ages commanded them to be regular in their meals. They were tired of the coarse and monotonous
fare, and took no interest in it, had no appetite for it. All day and every day they roamed
the ship half hungry, plagued by their gnawing stomachs, moody, untalkative, miserable. Among
them were three confirmed dyspeptics. These became shadows in the course of three weeks. There
was also a bed-ridden invalid; he lived on boiled rice; he could not look at the regular dishes.

Now came shipwrecks and life in open boats, with the usual paucity of food. Provisions ran
lower and lower. The appetites improved, then. When nothing was left but raw ham and the ration
of that was down to two ounces a day per person, the appetites were perfect. At the end of
fifteen days the dyspeptics, the invalid, and the most delicate ladies in the party were chewing
sailor-boots in ecstasy, and only complaining because the supply of them was limited. Yet these
were the same people who couldn't endure the ship's tedious corned beef and sour kraut and
other crudities. They were rescued by an English vessel. Within ten days the whole fifteen
were in as good condition as they had been when the shipwreck occurred.

'They had suffered no damage by their adventure,' said the professor.

'Do you note that?'

'Yes.'

'Do you note it well?'

'Yes--I think I do.'

'But you don't. You hesitate. You don't rise to the importance of it. I will say it again--with
emphasis--not one of them suffered any damage.'

'Now I begin to see. Yes, it was indeed remarkable.'

'Nothing of the kind. It was perfectly natural. There was no reason why they should suffer
damage. They were undergoing Nature's Appetite-Cure, the best and wisest in the world.'

'Is that where you got your idea?'

'That is where I got it.'

'It taught those people a valuable lesson.'

'What makes you think that?'

'Why shouldn't I? You seem to think it taught you one.'

'That is nothing to the point. I am not a fool.'

'I see. Were they fools?'

'They were human beings.'

'Is it the same thing?'

'Why do you ask? You know it yourself. As regards his health--and the rest of the things--the
average man is what his environment and his superstitions have made him; and their function
is to make him an ass. He can't add up three or four new circumstances together and perceive
what they mean; it is beyond him. He is not capable of observing for himself; he has to get
everything at second-hand. If what are miscalled the lower animals were as silly as man is,
they would all perish from the earth in a year.'

'Those passengers learned no lesson, then?'

'Not a sign of it. They went to their regular meals in the English ship, and pretty soon they
were nibbling again--nibbling, appetiteless, disgusted with the food, moody, miserable, half
hungry, their outraged stomachs cursing and swearing and whining and supplicating all day long.
And in vain, for they were the stomachs of fools.'

'Then, as I understand it, your scheme is--'

'Quite simple. Don't eat until you are hungry. If the food fails to taste good, fails to satisfy
you, rejoice you, comfort you, don't eat again until you are very hungry. Then it will rejoice
you--and do you good, too.'

'And I am to observe no regularity, as to hours?'

'When you are conquering a bad appetite--no. After it is conquered, regularity is no harm,
so long as the appetite remains good. As soon as the appetite wavers, apply the corrective
again--which is starvation, long or short according to the needs of the case.'

'The best diet, I suppose--I mean the wholesomest--'

'All diets are wholesome. Some are wholesomer than others, but all the ordinary diets are wholesome
enough for the people who use them. Whether the food be fine or coarse it will taste good and
it will nourish if a watch be kept upon the appetite and a little starvation introduced every
time it weakens. Nansen was used to fine fare, but when his meals were restricted to bear-meat
months at a time he suffered no damage and no discomfort, because his appetite was kept at
par through the difficulty of getting his bear-meat regularly.'

'But doctors arrange carefully considered and delicate diets for invalids.'

'They can't help it. The invalid is full of inherited superstitions and won't starve himself.
He believes it would certainly kill him.'

'It would weaken him, wouldn't it?'

'Nothing to hurt. Look at the invalids in our shipwreck. They lived fifteen days on pinches
of raw ham, a suck at sailor-boots, and general starvation. It weakened them, but it didn't
hurt them. It put them in fine shape to eat heartily of hearty food and build themselves up
to a condition of robust health. But they did not know enough to profit by that; they lost
their opportunity; they remained invalids; it served them right. Do you know the trick that
the health-resort doctors play?'

'What is it?'

'My system disguised--covert starvation. Grape-cure, bath-cure, mud-cure--it is all the same.
The grape and the bath and the mud make a show and do a trifle of the work--the real work is
done by the surreptitious starvation. The patient accustomed to four meals and late hours--at
both ends of the day--now consider what he has to do at a health resort. He gets up at 6 in
the morning. Eats one egg. Tramps up and down a promenade two hours with the other fools. Eats
a butterfly. Slowly drinks a glass of filtered sewage that smells like a buzzard's breath.
Promenades another two hours, but alone; if you speak to him he says anxiously, "My water!--I
am walking off my water!--please don't interrupt," and goes stumping along again. Eats a candied
roseleaf. Lies at rest in the silence and solitude of his room for hours; mustn't read, mustn't
smoke. The doctor comes and feels of his heart, now, and his pulse, and thumps his breast and
his back and his stomach, and listens for results through a penny flageolet; then orders the
man's bath--half a degree, Reaumur, cooler than yesterday. After the bath another egg. A glass
of sewage at three or four in the afternoon, and promenade solemnly with the other freaks.
Dinner at 6--half a doughnut and a cup of tea. Walk again. Half-past 8, supper--more butterfly;
at 9, to bed. Six weeks of this regime--think of it. It starves a man out and puts him in splendid
condition. It would have the same effect in London, New York, Jericho--anywhere.'

'How long does it take to put a person in condition here?'

'It ought to take but a day or two; but in fact it takes from one to six weeks, according to
the character and mentality of the patient.'

'How is that?'

'Do you see that crowd of women playing football, and boxing, and jumping fences yonder? They
have been here six or seven weeks. They were spectral poor weaklings when they came. They were
accustomed to nibbling at dainties and delicacies at set hours four times a day, and they had
no appetite for anything. I questioned them, and then locked them into their rooms--the frailest
ones to starve nine or ten hours, the others twelve or fifteen. Before long they began to beg;
and indeed they suffered a good deal. They complained of nausea, headache, and so on. It was
good to see them eat when the time was up. They could not remember when the devouring of a
meal had afforded them such rapture--that was their word. Now, then, that ought to have ended
their cure, but it didn't. They were free to go to any meals in the house, and they chose their
accustomed four. Within a day or two I had to interfere. Their appetites were weakening. I
made them knock out a meal. That set them up again. Then they resumed the four. I begged them
to learn to knock out a meal themselves, without waiting for me. Up to a fortnight ago they
couldn't; they really hadn't manhood enough; but they were gaining it, and now I think they
are safe. They drop out a meal every now and then of their own accord. They are in fine condition
now, and they might safely go home, I think, but their confidence is not quite perfect yet,
so they are waiting awhile.'

'Other cases are different?'

'Oh yes. Sometimes a man learns the whole trick in a week. Learns to regulate his appetite
and keep it in perfect order. Learns to drop out a meal with frequency and not mind it.'

'But why drop the entire meal out? Why not a part of it?'

'It's a poor device, and inadequate. If the stomach doesn't call vigorously--with a shout,
as you may say--it is better not to pester it but just give it a real rest. Some people can
eat more meals than others, and still thrive. There are all sorts of people, and all sorts
of appetites. I will show you a man presently who was accustomed to nibble at eight meals a
day. It was beyond the proper gait of his appetite by two. I have got him down to six a day,
now, and he is all right, and enjoys life. How many meals to you affect per day?'

'Formerly--for twenty-two years--a meal and a half; during the past two years, two and a half:
coffee and a roll at 9, luncheon at 1, dinner at 7.30 or 8.'

'Formerly a meal and a half--that is, coffee and a roll at 9, dinner in the evening, nothing
between--is that it?

'Yes.'

'Why did you add a meal?'

'It was the family's idea. They were uneasy. They thought I was killing myself.'

'You found a meal and a half per day enough, all through the twenty-two years?'

'Plenty.'

'Your present poor condition is due to the extra meal. Drop it out. You are trying to eat oftener
than your stomach demands. You don't gain, you lose. You eat less food now, in a day, on two
and a half meals, than you formerly ate on one and a half.'

'True--a good deal less; for in those olds days my dinner was a very sizeable thing.'

'Put yourself on a single meal a day, now--dinner--for a few days, till you secure a good,
sound, regular, trustworthy appetite, then take to your one and a half permanently, and don't
listen to the family any more. When you have any ordinary ailment, particularly of a feverish
sort, eat nothing at all during twenty-four hours. That will cure it. It will cure the stubbornest
cold in the head, too. No cold in the head can survive twenty-four hours' unmodified starvation.'

I know it. I have proved it many a time.

CONCERNING THE JEWS

Some months ago I published a magazine article(1) descriptive of a remarkable scene in the
Imperial Parliament in Vienna. Since then I have received from Jews in America several letters
of inquiry. They were difficult letters to answer, for they were not very definite. But at
last I have received a definite one. It is from a lawyer, and he really asks the questions
which the other writers probably believed they were asking. By help of this text I will do
the best I can to publicly answer this correspondent, and also the others--at the same time
apologising for having failed to reply privately. The lawyer's letter reads as follows:

     'I have read "Stirring Times in Austria."  One point in particular
     is of vital import to not a few thousand people, including myself,
     being a point about which I have often wanted to address a question
     to some disinterested person.  The show of military force in the
     Austrian Parliament, which precipitated the riots, was not
     introduced by any Jew.  No Jew was a member of that body.  No Jewish
     question was involved in the Ausgleich or in the language
     proposition.  No Jew was insulting anybody.  In short, no Jew was
     doing any mischief toward anybody whatsoever.  In fact, the Jews
     were the only ones of the nineteen different races in Austria which
     did not have a party--they are absolute non-participants.  Yet in
     your article you say that in the rioting which followed, all classes
     of people were unanimous only on one thing, viz., in being against
     the Jews.  Now, will you kindly tell me why, in your judgment, the
     Jews have thus ever been, and are even now, in these days of
     supposed intelligence, the butt of baseless, vicious animosities?
     I dare say that for centuries there has been no more quiet,
     undisturbing, and well-behaving citizen, as a class, than that same
     Jew.  It seems to me that ignorance and fanaticism cannot alone
     account for these horrible and unjust persecutions.

     'Tell me, therefore, from your vantage point of cold view, what in
     your mind is the cause.  Can American Jews do anything to correct it
     either in America or abroad?  Will it ever come to an end?  Will a
     Jew be permitted to live honestly, decently, and peaceably like the
     rest of mankind?  What has become of the Golden Rule?'

I will begin by saying that if I thought myself prejudiced against the Jew, I should hold it
fairest to leave this subject to a person not crippled in that way. But I think I have no such
prejudice. A few years ago a Jew observed to me that there was no uncourteous reference to
his people in my books, and asked how it happened. It happened because the disposition was
lacking. I am quite sure that (bar one) I have no race prejudices, and I think I have no colour
prejudices nor caste prejudices nor creed prejudices. Indeed, I know it. I can stand any society.
All that I care to know is that a man is a human being--that is enough for me; he can't be
any worse. I have no special regard for Satan; but I can at least claim that I have no prejudice
against him. It may even be that I lean a little his way, on account of his not having a fair
show. All religions issue Bibles against him, and say the most injurious things about him,
but we never hear his side. We have none but the evidence for the prosecution, and yet we have
rendered the verdict. To my mind, this is irregular. It is un-English; it is un-American; it
is French. Without this precedent Dreyfus could not have been condemned. Of course Satan has
some kind of a case, it goes without saying. It may be a poor one, but that is nothing; that
can be said about any of us. As soon as I can get at the facts I will undertake his rehabilitation
myself, if I can find an unpolitic publisher. It is a thing which we ought to be willing to
do for any one who is under a cloud. We may not pay Satan reverence, for that would be indiscreet,
but we can at least respect his talents. A person who has during all time maintained the imposing
position of spiritual head of four-fifths of the human race, and political head of the whole
of it, must be granted the possession of executive abilities of the loftiest order. In his
large presence the other popes and politicians shrink to midges for the microscope. I would
like to see him. I would rather see him and shake him by the tail than any other member of
the European Concert. In the present paper I shall allow myself to use the word Jew as if it
stood for both religion and race. It is handy; and, besides, that is what the term means to
the general world.

In the above letter one notes these points:

1. The Jew is a well-behaved citizen.

2. Can ignorance and fanaticism alone account for his unjust treatment?

3. Can Jews do anything to improve the situation?

4. The Jews have no party; they are non-participants.

5. Will the persecution ever come to an end?

6. What has become of the Golden Rule?

Point No. 1.--We must grant proposition No. 1, for several sufficient reasons. The Jew is not
a disturber of the peace of any country. Even his enemies will concede that. He is not a loafer,
he is not a sot, he is not noisy, he is not a brawler nor a rioter, he is not quarrelsome.
In the statistics of crime his presence is conspicuously rare--in all countries. With murder
and other crimes of violence he has but little to do: he is a stranger to the hangman. In the
police court's daily long roll of 'assaults' and 'drunk and disorderlies' his name seldom appears.
That the Jewish home is a home in the truest sense is a fact which no one will dispute. The
family is knitted together by the strongest affections; its members show each other every due
respect; and reverence for the elders is an inviolate law of the house. The Jew is not a burden
on the charities of the state nor of the city; these could cease from their functions without
affecting him. When he is well enough, he works; when he is incapacitated, his own people take
care of him. And not in a poor and stingy way, but with a fine and large benevolence. His race
is entitled to be called the most benevolent of all the races of men. A Jewish beggar is not
impossible, perhaps; such a thing may exist, but there are few men that can say they have seen
that spectacle. The Jew has been staged in many uncomplimentary forms, but, so far as I know,
no dramatist has done him the injustice to stage him as a beggar. Whenever a Jew has real need
to beg, his people save him from the necessity of doing it. The charitable institutions of
the Jews are supported by Jewish money, and amply. The Jews make no noise about it; it is done
quietly; they do not nag and pester and harass us for contributions; they give us peace, and
set us an example--an example which he have not found ourselves able to follow; for by nature
we are not free givers, and have to be patiently and persistently hunted down in the interest
of the unfortunate.

These facts are all on the credit side of the proposition that the Jew is a good and orderly
citizen. Summed up, they certify that he is quiet, peaceable, industrious, unaddicted to high
crimes and brutal dispositions; that his family life is commendable; that he is not a burden
upon public charities; that he is not a beggar; that in benevolence he is above the reach of
competition. These are the very quintessentials of good citizenship. If you can add that he
is as honest as the average of his neighbours--But I think that question is affirmatively answered
by the fact that he is a successful business man. The basis of successful business is honesty;
a business cannot thrive where the parties to it cannot trust each other. In the matter of
numbers the Jew counts for little in the overwhelming population of New York; but that his
honest counts for much is guaranteed by the fact that the immense wholesale business of Broadway,
from the Battery to Union Square, is substantially in his hands.

I suppose that the most picturesque example in history of a trader's trust in his fellow-trader
was one where it was not Christian trusting Christian, but Christian trusting Jew. That Hessian
Duke who used to sell his subjects to George III. to fight George Washington with got rich
at it; and by-and-by, when the wars engendered by the French Revolution made his throne too
warm for him, he was obliged to fly the country. He was in a hurry, and had to leave his earnings
behind--$9,000,000. He had to risk the money with some one without security. He did not select
a Christian, but a Jew--a Jew of only modest means, but of high character; a character so high
that it left him lonesome--Rothschild of Frankfort. Thirty years later, when Europe had become
quiet and safe again, the Duke came back from overseas, and the Jew returned the loan, with
interest added.(2)

The Jew has his other side. He has some discreditable ways, though he has not a monopoly of
them, because he cannot get entirely rid of vexatious Christian competition. We have seen that
he seldom transgresses the laws against crimes of violence. Indeed, his dealings with courts
are almost restricted to matters connected with commerce. He has a reputation for various small
forms of cheating, and for practising oppressive usury, and for burning himself out to get
the insurance, and for arranging cunning contracts which leave him an exit but lock the other
man in, and for smart evasions which find him safe and comfortable just within the strict letter
of the law, when court and jury know very well that he has violated the spirit of it. He is
a frequent and faithful and capable officer in the civil service, but he is charged with an
unpatriotic disinclination to stand by the flag as a soldier--like the Christian Quaker.

Now if you offset these discreditable features by the creditable ones summarised in a preceding
paragraph beginning with the words, 'These facts are all on the credit side,' and strike a
balance, what must the verdict be? This, I think: that, the merits and demerits being fairly
weighed and measured on both sides, the Christian can claim no superiority over the Jew in
the matter of good citizenship.

Yet in all countries, from the dawn of history, the Jew has been persistently and implacably
hated, and with frequency persecuted.

Point No. 2.--'Can fanaticism alone account for this?'

Years ago I used to think that it was responsible for nearly all of it, but latterly I have
come to think that this was an error. Indeed, it is now my conviction that it is responsible
for hardly any of it.

In this connection I call to mind Genesis, chapter xlvii.

We have all thoughtfully--or unthoughtfully--read the pathetic story of the years of plenty
and the years of famine in Egypt, and how Joseph, with that opportunity, made a corner in broken
hearts, and the crusts of the poor, and human liberty--a corner whereby he took a nation's
money all away, to the last penny; took a nation's live stock all away, to the last hoof; took
a nation's land away, to the last acre; then took the nation itself, buying it for bread, man
by man, woman by woman, child by child, till all were slaves; a corner which took everything,
left nothing; a corner so stupendous that, by comparison with it, the most gigantic corners
in subsequent history are but baby things, for it dealt in hundreds of millions of bushels,
and its profits were reckonable by hundreds of millions of dollars, and it was a disaster so
crushing that its effects have not wholly disappeared from Egypt to-day, more than three thousand
years after the event.

Is it presumably that the eye of Egypt was upon Joseph the foreign Jew all this time? I think
it likely. Was it friendly? We must doubt it. Was Joseph establishing a character for his race
which would survive long in Egypt? and in time would his name come to be familiarly used to
express that character--like Shylock's? It is hardly to be doubted. Let us remember that this
was centuries before the Crucifixion?

I wish to come down eighteen hundred years later and refer to a remark made by one of the Latin
historians. I read it in a translation many years ago, and it comes back to me now with force.
It was alluding to a time when people were still living who could have seen the Saviour in
the flesh. Christianity was so new that the people of Rome had hardly heard of it, and had
but confused notions of what it was. The substance of the remark was this: Some Christians
were persecuted in Rome through error, they being 'mistaken for Jews.'

The meaning seems plain. These pagans had nothing against Christians, but they were quite ready
to persecute Jews. For some reason or other they hated a Jew before they even knew what a Christian
was. May I not assume, then, that the persecution of Jews is a thing which antedates Christianity
and was not born of Christianity? I think so. What was the origin of the feeling?

When I was a boy, in the back settlements of the Mississippi Valley, where a gracious and beautiful
Sunday school simplicity and practicality prevailed, the 'Yankee' (citizen of the New England
States) was hated with a splendid energy. But religion had nothing to do with it. In a trade,
the Yankee was held to be about five times the match of the Westerner. His shrewdness, his
insight, his judgment, his knowledge, his enterprise, and his formidable cleverness in applying
these forces were frankly confessed, and most competently cursed.

In the cotton States, after the war, the simple and ignorant Negroes made the crops for the
white planter on shares. The Jew came down in force, set up shop on the plantation, supplied
all the negro's wants on credit, and at the end of the season was proprietor of the negro's
share of the present crop and of part of his share of the next one. Before long, the whites
detested the Jew, and it is doubtful if the negro loved him.

The Jew is begin legislated out of Russia. The reason is not concealed. The movement was instituted
because the Christian peasant and villager stood no chance against his commercial abilities.
He was always ready to lend money on a crop, and sell vodka and other necessities of life on
credit while the crop was growing. When settlement day came he owned the crop; and next year
or year after he owned the farm, like Joseph.

In the dull and ignorant English of John's time everybody got into debt to the Jew. He gathered
all lucrative enterprises into his hands; he was the king of commerce; he was ready to be helpful
in all profitable ways; he even financed crusades for the rescue of the Sepulchre. To wipe
out his account with the nation and restore business to its natural and incompetent channels
he had to be banished the realm.

For the like reasons Spain had to banish him four hundred years ago, and Austria about a couple
of centuries later.

In all the ages Christian Europe has been oblige to curtail his activities. If he entered upon
a mechanical trade, the Christian had to retire from it. If he set up as a doctor, he was the
best one, and he took the business. If he exploited agriculture, the other farmers had to get
at something else. Since there was no way to successfully compete with him in any vocation,
the law had to step in and save the Christian from the poor-house. Trade after trade was taken
away from the Jew by statute till practically none was left. He was forbidden to engage in
agriculture; he was forbidden to practise law; he was forbidden to practise medicine, except
among Jews; he was forbidden the handicrafts. Even the seats of learning and the schools of
science had to be closed against this tremendous antagonist. Still, almost bereft of employments,
he found ways to make money, even ways to get rich. Also ways to invest his takings well, for
usury was not denied him. In the hard conditions suggested, the Jew without brains could not
survive, and the Jew with brains had to keep them in good training and well sharpened up, or
starve. Ages of restriction to the one tool which the law was not able to take from him--his
brain--have made that tool singularly competent; ages of compulsory disuse of his hands have
atrophied them, and he never uses them now. This history has a very, very commercial look,
a most sordid and practical commercial look, the business aspect of a Chinese cheap-labour
crusade. Religious prejudices may account for one part of it, but not for the other nine.

Protestants have persecuted Catholics, but they did not take their livelihoods away from them.
The Catholics have persecuted the Protestants with bloody and awful bitterness, but they never
closed agriculture and the handicrafts against them. Why was that? That has the candid look
of genuine religious persecution, not a trade-union boycott in a religious dispute.

The Jews are harried and obstructed in Austria and Germany, and lately in France; but England
and America give them an open field and yet survive. Scotland offers them an unembarrassed
field too, but there are not many takers. There are a few Jews in Glasgow, and one in Aberdeen;
but that is because they can't earn enough to get away. The Scotch pay themselves that compliment,
but it is authentic.

I feel convinced that the Crucifixion has not much to do with the world's attitude toward the
Jew; that the reasons for it are older than that event, as suggested by Egypt's experience
and by Rome's regret for having persecuted an unknown quantity called a Christian, under the
mistaken impression that she was merely persecuting a Jew. Merely a Jew--a skinned eel who
was used to it, presumably. I am persuaded that in Russia, Austria, and Germany nine-tenths
of the hostility to the Jew comes from the average Christian's inability to compete successfully
with the average Jew in business--in either straight business or the questionable sort.

In Berlin, a few years ago, I read a speech which frankly urged the expulsion of the Jews from
Germany; and the agitator's reason was as frank as his proposition. It was this: that eighty-five
percent of the successful lawyers of Berlin were Jews, and that about the same percentage of
the great and lucrative businesses of all sorts in Germany were in the hands of the Jewish
race! Isn't it an amazing confession? It was but another way of saying that in a population
of 48,000,000, of whom only 500,000 were registered as Jews, eighty-five per cent of the brains
and honesty of the whole was lodged in the Jews. I must insist upon the honesty--it is an essential
of successful business, taken by and large. Of course it does not rule out rascals entirely,
even among Christians, but it is a good working rule, nevertheless. The speaker's figures may
have been inexact, but the motive of persecution stands out as clear as day.

The man claimed that in Berlin the banks, the newspapers, the theatres, the great mercantile,
shipping, mining, and manufacturing interests, the big army and city contracts, the tramways,
and pretty much all other properties of high value, and also the small businesses, were in
the hands of the Jews. He said the Jew was pushing the Christian to the wall all along the
line; that it was all a Christian could do to scrape together a living; and that the Jew must
be banished, and soon--there was no other way of saving the Christian. Here in Vienna, last
autumn, an agitator said that all these disastrous details were true of Austria-Hungary also;
and in fierce language he demanded the expulsion of the Jews. When politicians come out without
a blush and read the baby act in this frank way, unrebuked, it is a very good indication that
they have a market back of them, and know where to fish for votes.

You note the crucial point of the mentioned agitation; the argument is that the Christian cannot
compete with the Jew, and that hence his very bread is in peril. To human beings this is a
much more hate-inspiring thing than is any detail connected with religion. With most people,
of a necessity, bread and meat take first rank, religion second. I am convinced that the persecution
of the Jew is not due in any large degree to religious prejudice.

No, the Jew is a money-getter; and in getting his money he is a very serious obstruction to
less capable neighbours who are on the same quest. I think that that is the trouble. In estimating
worldly values the Jew is not shallow, but deep. With precocious wisdom he found out in the
morning of time that some men worship rank, some worship heroes, some worship power, some worship
God, and that over these ideals they dispute and cannot unite--but that they all worship money;
so he made it the end and aim of his life to get it. He was at it in Egypt thirty-six centuries
ago; he was at it in Rome when that Christian got persecuted by mistake for him; he has been
at it ever since. The cost to him has been heavy; his success has made the whole human race
his enemy--but it has paid, for it has brought him envy, and that is the only thing which men
will sell both soul and body to get. He long ago observed that a millionaire commands respect,
a two-millionaire homage, a multi-millionaire the deepest deeps of adoration. We all know that
feeling; we have seen it express itself. We have noticed that when the average man mentions
the name of a multi-millionaire he does it with that mixture in his voice of awe and reverence
and lust which burns in a Frenchman's eye when it falls on another man's centime.

Point No. 4--'The Jews have no party; they are non-participants.'

