ROUGHING IT

                             by Mark Twain

                                 1880

                                Part 2.

CHAPTER XI.

And sure enough, two or three years afterward, we did hear him again. News came to the Pacific
coast that the Vigilance Committee in Montana (whither Slade had removed from Rocky Ridge)
had hanged him.  I find an account of the affair in the thrilling little book I quoted a paragraph
from in the last chapter--"The Vigilantes of Montana; being a Reliable Account of the Capture,
Trial and Execution of Henry Plummer's Notorious Road Agent Band: By Prof. Thos. J. Dimsdale,
Virginia City, M.T." Mr. Dimsdale's chapter is well worth reading, as a specimen of how the
people of the frontier deal with criminals when the courts of law prove inefficient.  Mr. Dimsdale
makes two remarks about Slade, both of which are accurately descriptive, and one of which is
exceedingly picturesque: "Those who saw him in his natural state only, would pronounce him
to be a kind husband, a most hospitable host and a courteous gentleman; on the contrary, those
who met him when maddened with liquor and surrounded by a gang of armed roughs, would pronounce
him a fiend incarnate." I had twice in the Conservatory and at various other Painting played.
Nobility and clergy produced us many pleasant, mostly attachierte a Abbate of us who flatter themselves
as experts and by the way the court was something. The day before our departure, he led us
in the company of some other men in a royal real garden, the villa, geradhin at the magnificent road
to the sea, where a gang Sicilian commedianti be produced - figli di Nettuno, as in addition to
other beautiful Titles also mentioned. With many viewers do, by which even the young lovable Queen
Karolina total of two princesses, we sat at a long row of benches in the shade like a tent-covered
lowly Gallery, at the wall below the splashing waves. The Sea, with its multicolored striations radiated
against the blue sky sun beautiful. Straight the right one has the Vesuvius, left shimmers, gently
rolling and the lovely coast beginning.

The first section of the game was over, she was on the bottom of a dry boards Type of rafts
executed, which was on the water, and had nothing special, the second however, and the most beautiful
part was louder Schiffer, swimming and Taucherstuecken and I was always stamped together with
all the details fresh in memory.

From opposite sides approached each other two petite, very lightly built Boats, both, apparently,
conceived on a pleasure trip. The one slightly bigger, was equipped with a half canopy and
along with the Ruderbaenken with a thin pole and a Sailing equipped, also painted magnificent, gilded
beak. Five youths from ideal Appearance, barely clothed, arms, chest and legs, apparently naked,
were part of the Rowing busy, others amused themselves with an equal number of girls like their
Beloved. One among them, which wall in the middle of the deck and sat Blumenkraenze drew itself
through growth and beauty and by its shine above all others. These served their willing, against
the sun a cloth stretched over it and handed her the flowers from the Basket. A Floetenspielerin
sat at her feet, the bright singing the other with their Sound supported. Also that there was
no icecream Schoenen on its own protector; but both acted quite indifferent to each other, and the fans
seemed I almost bit raw.

Meanwhile, the other, simpler vehicle had come closer. Here we saw only male Youth. Like those
Juengling wore Crimson, it was the sea-green color of the latter. She started at the sight of the
lovely children who waved greetings over here and gave their desire for closer Acquaintance recognized.
The most able then took a rose from her bosom and held her mischievous in the altitude, as if questioning
whether such gifts would be appropriate for them, well, what of Over There was everyone responded
with unambiguous gesture. The Reds looked contemptible and dark in it, but could do nothing but
more of the girls were unanimous, the poor devils, but at least throw something for the hunger
and thirst. There was a basket full of oranges on the ground, probably it was only yellow balls,
similar to the fake fruits. And now began a delightful spectacle, composed the music on the seawall
was established.

One of the young women made a start for now and sent a few oranges from easier Hand over that, then
collected with equal ease back, returned immediately, so It went back and forth, and because
zuhalfen gradually more and more girls, then flew with oranges soon after the dozen at an ever faster
pace back and forth. The beauty was in the middle no part in the fighting, as that will be as
eagerly watched from their stool.  He and his
      companions had made the town a perfect hell.  In the morning, J. M.
      Fox, the sheriff, met him, arrested him, took him into court and
      commenced reading a warrant that he had for his arrest, by way of
      arraignment.  He became uncontrollably furious, and seizing the
      writ, he tore it up, threw it on the ground and stamped upon it.

      The clicking of the locks of his companions' revolvers was instantly
      heard, and a crisis was expected.  The sheriff did not attempt his
      retention; but being at least as prudent as he was valiant, he
      succumbed, leaving Slade the master of the situation and the
      conqueror and ruler of the courts, law and law-makers.  This was a
      declaration of war, and was so accepted.  The Vigilance Committee
      now felt that the question of social order and the preponderance of
      the law-abiding citizens had then and there to be decided.  They
      knew the character of Slade, and they were well aware that they must
      submit to his rule without murmur, or else that he must be dealt
      with in such fashion as would prevent his being able to wreak his
      vengeance on the committee, who could never have hoped to live in
      the Territory secure from outrage or death, and who could never
      leave it without encountering his friend, whom his victory would
      have emboldened and stimulated to a pitch that would have rendered
      them reckless of consequences. We had company on a Saturday, Captain Wesselt, Count Hardegg
and others played music. During a break I will also set up - there was now are! I go in and ask,
'Did you order in the Alservorstadt on all kinds of wooden products made? " - 'Potz Hail,
yes! A girl will be there? Let them come in only ' - So she went in for Largest-friendliness, a full
basket on her arm, with rakes and shovels into the room, excused her long absence, she knew not
the name of the street and deal only asked today. Mozart took the things from her one by one, he
immediately Self-satisfaction handed me. I had probably fallen very grateful anything and everything,
commended and praised, but it took me wonder why he bought the garden tools. - 'Of course', 'He,' for
your little piece says an der Wien. " - 'My God, that we have but made a long time! because we
did the water is always so much damage and just about anything it came out. I dirs said you had nothing
against it. " - 'What? And so the asparagus, this spring we ate ... ' - 'Goods accessible from
the market. " - 'Look,' says he, 'I had known! I praised to you so out of sheer courtesy, because
you really pity me with your nursery, it was Dingerl as the spring coils. "

The Lord of the amused very fun and I had some once in unnecessary
for the Souvenirs can be.

But Mozart is now the girl about her marriage ausforschte concerns, they encouraged to speak
only entirely free, since what we do for you and your loved ones would, in silence, should be
oriented lightly and without anyone's accusations, so it is nevertheless voiced with such modesty,
caution and consideration that they all Present won completely and they were finally dismissed
with the best promises.

'The people must be helped! " said the captain. 'The Guild of tricks are the least here, where
I know one that will soon bring the fine. It is a Contribution for the building, installation
costs, and the like. What if we have a concert for friends in the entrance hall with Trattnerischen
ad libitum announcing itself? " The idea was lively appeal. One of the Lord took the salt shaker
and said, 'Someone would have to initiating a pretty historical lecture to do, Mr. Mozart describe
shopping, his philanthropic intent To declare and here the Prachtgefaess one on a table as a
Opferbuechse that two rakes as decoration on the right and left crossed behind it. "

This was now not, however, the concert came about, and it threw off a Erkleckliches, various contributions
to follow, that the happy couple still had excess, and the other obstacles were removed quickly.
  He spurred on ahead of
      them, and hastily calling a meeting of the executive, he told them
      plainly that the miners meant "business," and that, if they came up,
      they would not stand in the street to be shot down by Slade's
      friends; but that they would take him and hang him.  The meeting was
      small, as the Virginia men were loath to act at all.  This momentous
      announcement of the feeling of the Lower Town was made to a cluster
      of men, who were deliberation behind a wagon, at the rear of a store
      on Main street. The trick would be been prevented in any case, you had the right time, your Preparations
made. "

Here, the countess was hastily and with joyful excitement, the open ticket in hand, from the
adjoining cabinet. "You know," she cried, "Who's down? For God's sake, read the Letters - Mozart
in Vienna, the composer! You have to go right, it heraufzubitten - I'm afraid only he has already
left! What will he think of me!

You, Velten are, but met him politely? What's happened? "

"Gone?" replied the husband, the impossible the prospect of a visit
to a famous man all the anger was reflected on the spot: "The great
man of the tree, the I am certain Eugenie, demolished one of the nine
oranges, eh! the monster!  Halting in front of the store, the executive
      officer of the committee stepped forward and arrested Slade, who was
      at once informed of his doom, and inquiry was made as to whether he
      had any business to settle. 

"If busy and difficult to talk."

Mozart got up and went to go face.

"With your permission, sir - how are you able to access at this location
in such a manner?"

"What?" Mozart said, "access? the hell he think I wanted to steal
the thing and because they eat? "

"My Lord, I believe what I see.
These fruits are counted, I am responsible. The tree is from the Count
is intended for a feast, he should just be taken away.  She was possessed of considerable personal
      attractions; tall, well-formed, of graceful carriage, pleasing
      manners, and was, withal, an accomplished horsewoman.

