Mary, then, with all the frankness which marked her character, explained her situation to him
and mentioned her fatal tie with such disgust that he trembled for her. "I cannot see him;
he is not the man formed for me to love!" Her delicacy did not restrain her, for her dislike
to her husband had taken root in her mind long before she knew Henry. Did she not fix on Lisbon
rather than France on purpose to avoid him? and if Ann had been in tolerable health she would
have flown with her to some remote corner to have escaped from him.

"I intend," said Henry, "to follow you in the next packet; where shall I hear of your health?"
"Oh! let me hear of thine," replied Mary. "I am well, very well; but thou art very ill--thy
health is in the most precarious state." She then mentioned her intention of going to Ann's
relations. "I am her representative, I have duties to fulfil for her: during my voyage I have
time enough for reflection; though I think I have already determined."

"Be not too hasty, my child," interrupted Henry; "far be it from me to persuade thee to do
violence to thy feelings--but consider that all thy future life may probably take its colour
from thy present mode of conduct. Our affections as well as our sentiments are fluctuating;
you will not perhaps always either think or feel as you do at present: the object you now shun
may appear in a different light." He paused. "In advising thee in this style, I have only thy
good at heart, Mary."

She only answered to expostulate. "My affections are involuntary--yet they can only be fixed
by reflection, and when they are they make quite a part of my soul, are interwoven in it, animate
my actions, and form my taste: certain qualities are calculated to call forth my sympathies,
and make me all I am capable of being. The governing affection gives its stamp to the rest--because
I am capable of loving one, I have that kind of charity to all my fellow-creatures which is
not easily provoked. Milton has asserted, That earthly love is the scale by which to heavenly
we may ascend."

She went on with eagerness. "My opinions on some subjects are not wavering; my pursuit through
life has ever been the same: in solitude were my sentiments formed; they are indelible, and
nothing can efface them but death--No, death itself cannot efface them, or my soul must be
created afresh, and not improved. Yet a little while am I parted from my Ann--I could not exist
without the hope of seeing her again--I could not bear to think that time could wear away an
affection that was founded on what is not liable to perish; you might as well attempt to persuade
me that my soul is matter, and that its feelings arose from certain modifications of it."

"Dear enthusiastic creature," whispered Henry, "how you steal into my soul." She still continued.
"The same turn of mind which leads me to adore the Author of all Perfection--which leads me
to conclude that he only can fill my soul; forces me to admire the faint image-the shadows
of his attributes here below; and my imagination gives still bolder strokes to them. I knew
I am in some degree under the influence of a delusion--but does not this strong delusion prove
that I myself 'am of subtiler essence than the trodden clod' these flights of the imagination
point to futurity; I cannot banish them. Every cause in nature produces an effect; and am I
an exception to the general rule? have I desires implanted in me only to make me miserable?
will they never be gratified? shall I never be happy? My feelings do not accord with the notion
of solitary happiness. In a state of bliss, it will be the society of beings we can love, without
the alloy that earthly infirmities mix with our best affections, that will constitute great
part of our happiness.

