BE COURTEOUS:

OR,

RELIGION THE TRUE REFINER.

BY MRS. M. H. MAXWELL.

PREFACE.

The scenes and characters of this story are those once familiar to the writer. The story itself
is but a disconnected diary of one who, early refined from earthly dross, lived only long enough
to show us that there was both reason and divine authority in the words of an apostle, when
he exhorted Christians to "Be Courteous."

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

THE PLAIN--THE ISOLATED DWELLING--BLUE-BERRY PARTY--TAKING A VOTE--TREATMENT OF NEW ACQUAINTANCES--THE
FAMILY AT APPLEDALE--THE YOUNG PEOPLE UPON THE PLAIN----SINCERE MILK OF THE WORD--A CALL AT
THE LOG-HOUSE--THE RIDE HOME--ORIGINAL POETRY

CHAPTER II.

THE KIND "GOOD-MORNING "--THE HIGH HILL--UNEXPECTED MEETING--ROMANCE AND REALITY--THE GOOD
FARMER--IMPRESSIONS OF CHILDHOOD--WORSHIPING-- BEARING THE CROSS

CHAPTER III

THE POOR WOMAN OF THE PLAIN--THE NOTE--MOURNFUL MUSINGS--THE CUP OF TEA--THE STRUGGLE--CHARITY
AND SELF--EMMA'S HISTORY

CHAPTER IV.

THE LITTLE TIME--HOW IMPROVED--FITNESS FOR REFINED SOCIETY--MORNING REFLECTIONS--RUTH AND BOAZ--CHARITY
AND COURTESY--THE VISIT

CHAPTER V.

THE OLD PEDDLER--BITTER WORDS--THE MEEK REPLY--THE EFFECT--ACTING A PART--SOFTER FEELINGS--THE
DEATH-SCENE--THE DAY OF SMALL THINGS--SIMPLE CHRISTIAN COURTESY

BE COURTEOUS:

OR,

RELIGION THE TRUE REFINER.

Not more than a mile and a half from a pleasant village in one of our eastern States is a plain,
extending many miles, and terminated on the north by a widespread pond. A narrow road runs
across the plain; but the line of green grass bordering the "wheel-track" upon either side,
shows that though the nearest, this road is not the most frequented way to the pond. Many reasons
might be assigned for this. There is a wearisome monotony in the scenery along this plain.
There are no hills, and but few trees to diversify the almost interminable prospect, stretching
east, west, north, and south, like a broad ocean, without wave or ripple. The few trees scattered
here and there stand alone, casting long shadows over the plain at nightfall, and adding solemnity
to the mysterious stillness of that isolated place. It is not a place for human habitation,
for the soil is sandy and sterile; neither is it a place for human hearts, so desolate in winter,
and so unsheltered and dry during the long warm summer. Yet midway between the village and
the pond was once a house, standing with its back turned unceremoniously upon the narrow road
with its border of green. It was a poor thing to be called a house. Its front door was made,
as it seemed, without reference to anything, for it opened upon the broad ocean-like plain.
No questions had been asked relative to a title-deed of the land upon which that house stood,
or whether "poor Graffam" had a right to pile up logs in the middle of that plain, and under
them to hide a family of six. Through many a long eastern winter that family had lived there,
little known, and little cared for. Nobody had taken the pains to go on purpose to see them;
yet, during the month of July, and a part of August, some of the family were often seen. At
all times of the year, in summer's heat and in winter's snow, the children going and returning
from school, were wont to meet "poor Graffam," a short man, with sandy hair, carrying an ax
upon his shoulder, and bearing in his hand a small pail of "dinner;" for Graffam, when refused
employment by others, usually found something to do at "Motley's Mills," which were about half
a mile from the village. I asked Howard to try to understand that nothing is prepared. Nothing can
be done to make it ready I implored Howard.
I laughed jokingly saying "our Yankee damsels are prepared to be married
if they only got a pair of shoes and one and a half dresses". "Let us run after Graffam, and have
some fun," the boys would say on returning home; and then it was wonderful to see the change
which had been wrought in this mournful-looking, taciturn man of the morning. Sometimes he
was in a rage, repaying their assaults with fearful oaths and bitter curses; but it was a thing
more general to find him in merry mood, and then he was himself a boy, pitching his companions
about in the snow, or talking with them largely and confidentially of landed estates and vast
resources all his own. It is needless to inform my sagacious young reader, that the cause of
this change in the poor man was rum.

We have referred to the month of July and a part of August; it was during this season of the
year that the plain, on account of the rich berries tinging its surface with beautiful blue,
became a place of much resort. These berries, hanging in countless clusters upon their low
bushes among the shrubbery, were at least worth going to see. It is the opinion of most people,
however, (an opinion first entertained in Eden,) that fruit pleasant to the eye is desirable
for the taste. Such was the opinion prevalent in that region; and the sight of merry "blue-berry
companies," sometimes in wagons, sometimes on foot, was among the most common of our midsummer
morning scenes. Equally familiar was the sight of like companies returning at evening, weary,
but better satisfied; glad that, with well-filled pails and baskets, they were so near home.
This was the time of year when the young Graffams became visible. The blue-berry companies
often encountered them upon the plain, but found them shy as young partridges, dodging through
the bushes, and skulking away as though kidnappers were in pursuit.

There was, however, one boy among them, the eldest, (if we remember rightly,) who was quite
familiar with the villagers. He was a little boy, not more than ten or eleven at the time of
which I now write, and for two or three summers had been in the habit of bringing berries to
the village, and offering them for any small matter, either for food or clothing. Both the
kind-hearted and the curious had plied this little boy with questions, relative to his manner
of life, his mother, brothers, and sisters; but his answers were far from giving information
upon any of these points. He always declined a proposed visit by saying, "Mother don't want
no company." This seemed true enough; for when any visitor to the plain called at Graffam's
for a drink of water, they were never invited to enter. The water was handed them through a
small opening, and the mother was seldom visible.

It was one of the brightest of our July mornings, when a blue-berry company started from the
village before-mentioned. Two wagons filled with young people passed along the principal street
at an early hour, raising a cloud of dust as they turned the corner where stood a guide-board
pointing out the plain road to the pond. Onward rolled the two wagons, the tin-pails and dippers
dancing and rattling in the rear, keeping time with the clatter of untamed tongues in the van.
"Shall we call at 'Appledale?'" asked the driver of the first wagon, coming to a sudden stand.

"Go along!" laughingly answered a gay girl in the second. "Our horse is putting his nose into
your tin rattletraps."

The question was repeated.

"They are strangers to us," replied a black-eyed young lady, "and from seeing them at church
I should think them precise. A refusal would be mortifying; and if the prim Miss Martha concludes
to go, that will be still worse. We cannot act ourselves, and all the fun will be spoiled.
What say you, Fanny Brighton?"

Fanny, a bright-looking, but rather reckless girl, replied: "They shall not go, neither Miss
Martha nor Miss Emma; not that I care a fiddlestring for their primness or their precision;
nobody shall prevent me from thinking, and acting, and doing as I please to-day; from being,
in short, what I was made to be--Fanny Brighton, and nobody else."

Fanny spoke with her usual authority, and expected obedience; but to her surprise Henry Boyd,
the young driver of the first wagon, still hesitated, and stooping down, he whispered to a
mild, lovely-looking girl, who, seated upon a box, was holding her parasol so as to shield
from the sun's rays a sickly little boy. "Take a vote of the company," whispered the pretty
girl, whom he called Mary.

"If it be your minds," said Henry, rising to his feet, "that we call at Appledale, and invite
Miss Martha and Miss Emma Lindsay to be of our company, please manifest it by raising the right
hand. It is a vote," he quietly continued, taking his seat.

"Mary Palmer!" called out Fanny; "you are a simpleton, and so fond of serving people as to
court insult."

Mary's cheek flushed a little. It was not the first time that she had been called a simpleton,
or some kindred name, by the out-spoken Miss Fanny; for this young lady prided herself on not
being afraid to speak plainly, and tell people just what she thought of them.

As we before said, Mary's cheek flushed a little; but she instantly thought to herself, "It
is Fanny, and I won't mind it." So she smiled, and said very gently, "I am sure, Fanny, that
no sensible person will insult me for trying to be courteous, though I may not exactly understand
the way. It can do the Misses Lindsay no harm to receive such an invitation from us, and we
cannot be injured by a refusal."

"For my own part," said Henry, "I think that the question whether we are to be neighbors or
not should be settled. They are strangers, and it is our business to make the first advance
toward an acquaintance. If they decline, we have only hereafter to keep at a respectful distance."

"Precious little respect will they find in me," said Fanny. "I am too much of a Yankee to flatter
people by subserviency, or to put myself out of the way to gain acquaintances about whom I
care not a fig. But drive on: while we are prating and voting about the nabobs at Appledale
the sun is growing hot."

Henry gathered up his reins, and away the wagons clattered down the long hill, and with a short,
thunder-like rumble crossed the bridge between the Sliver Place and Appledale. Perhaps the
writer may be called to account for this romantic name: he will therefore give it here. Appledale
was once called Snag-Orchard, on account of the old trees whose fugitive roots often found
their way into the road, making great trouble, and causing great complaint from the citizens,
who yearly worked out a tax there.

The people of that place would never have thought of calling it anything else, had it not been
for Susan and Margaret Sliver, who sometimes wrote verses, and thought that Appledale sounded
better in poetry than did Snag-Orchard. These ladies, (they called themselves young, but we
must be truthful, even at the expense of courtesy,) --these ladies, Margaret and Susan, said
that this old place was decidedly romantic; but the plain people living in that vicinity knew
but little of romance. If they saved time from hard labor to read their Bible, it was certainly
a subject for thankfulness. Most of them thought that Snag-Orchard was a gloomy place, and
that it was a pity for so much good ground to be taken up with overgrown trees. It suited Mr.
Croswell, however, who was the former proprietor. He had but little interest in the land belonging
to this world, for all his relatives, nearly every one, had gone to the land that is "very
far off." He loved the trees, and seemed to us like an old tree himself, from which kindred
branch and spray had fallen, leaving him in the world's wilderness alone. Some thought him
melancholy; but he was not: he was only waiting upon the shore of that river dividing the "blessed
land" from ours; and one spring morning, very suddenly to his neighbors, he crossed that river,
and found more, infinitely more than he had ever lost. After he was gone, the house was closed
for a time; and through the bright days of the following summer, when the foliage became heavy
upon the old trees, casting so deep a shadow as to make noonday but twilight there, and when
the night breeze sang mournfully among the pines in the rear of that old house, people coming
from the pond by the way of the plain looked stealthily over their shoulders at Snag-Orchard:
but they knew not why, for nothing was there--nothing but loneliness and desertion.

There was a report among the school children that the Croswell house was haunted; and in his
merry moods poor Graffam had told the boys, how many a time upon a dark night, when going from
Motley's Mills to his house upon the plain, he had seen that house brilliantly illuminated,
and once or twice had heard old Mr. Croswell call to him from the window, and say, "Beware,
Graffam, beware." Little, however, was thought of these stories, for we all knew that the unhappy
man often went home at night with a fire upon his brain, and had no doubt but that he got up
his own illuminations; and as for the admonition, "Beware, Graffam, beware," it doubtless came
from the frogs, and was interpreted by his own conscience. Snag-Orchard, however, was evidently
dreaded until the Lindsays came to live there, when it became less gloomy: for though the old
trees with their heavy foliage were still there, descending in long sentinel-like rows down
the hill-slope, until the last row drooped their branches into the bright waters of the brook,
yet the rank grass around the house, that had so long raised its seedy head, and looked in
at the windows, was mowed down, and sociable-looking flowers had taken its place; and then
at evening, the traveler returning from the pond by the way of the plain, realized what had
once been but the brilliant phantasy of poor Graffam's brain--for though Mrs. Lindsay was a
widow, she was neither poor nor deserted. The reason for her coming there was not at that time
known among us. A gentleman who was projecting the plan of a settlement at the pond, in reference
to mill and factory privileges, bargained for the Croswell place, and early in the spring this
family took up a residence there. Three months had passed away, and they were still strangers.
This was not from any want of sociability upon the part of their neighbors,--or from studied
indifference upon their own part, but from the time of their first coming they had seemed fully
occupied with company. Gay parties upon horse-back had frequently issued from the large gate,
where in years gone by oxen had walked demurely in, bearing a three-story load of hay. The
long riding-dresses and feathered caps of these gay riders, inasmuch as they were new in that
old-fashioned place, were judged of according to the several tastes of the farmers' wives and
daughters. Some thought it pretty business for girls to be figuring about with men's hats,
when there was work enough for women folks within doors: and others thought (very justly too)
that the matter of this riding was no concern of theirs; and having business enough of their
own, they concluded to let Mrs. Lindsay and her guests do as they pleased. This was a wise
conclusion, since it daily became more and more evident that they had no intention of doing
otherwise than as they pleased. Some of the family always presented themselves at church on
the Lord's day, but among them Miss Emma, and an elderly woman supposed to be the housekeeper,
were the only constant attendants. Thus much of the new family at Appledale. The reader will
learn more as we progress in our story.

"I would see Mrs. Lindsay and the young ladies," said Henry Boyd, as the servant opened the
door. Henry was shown into the same room, where many a time he had sat and talked with old
Mr. Croswell, but which now seemed to him like another place. A handsome carpet now covered
the white oaken floor, and rich curtains partially concealed the windows once shaded by simple
green. Where stood the old "sideboard" was now an elegant piano, and luxurious chairs and lounges
had taken the place of Mr. Croswell's high-backed, upright-looking furniture. But Henry was
self-possessed; and though there were a number of young ladies in the room, dressed in handsome
morning dishabille, he neither stammered nor turned red, but bowing easily to Mrs. Lindsay,
gave Misses Martha and Emma an invitation to go with him and the young ladies to the plain.
Mrs. Lindsay saw that Martha, on glancing from the window at the rustic-looking company, could
scarcely suppress a smile, so she courteously thanked Henry, and was about to excuse her daughters,
when Emma entered the room. Henry could not accuse either Mrs. Lindsay or Martha of impoliteness,
but he felt somehow as though there was a great contrast between this courtesy and that shown
him by Emma; for she offered him her hand, and said, "It is very kind of you to call for us,
and if mamma pleases, I should like to go."

"I have no objection, my love," said Mrs. Lindsay, "provided you return before night."

Henry assured her that they should, Martha respectfully declined the invitation, and Emma ran
up stairs. "I am going," said she joyfully to the elderly woman with whom she was often seen
at church. "I am going, Dora; and that dear little Mary Palmer is there." Dora arose, and pinned
a thin shawl upon the neck of the delicate girl, and while she did so, looked affectionately
into her white face.

"Of what are you thinking, Dora?" asked Emma.

"I was thinking," said she, "that my lily could shed her fragrance beyond her own garden to-day."

"O, I am no lily," said Emma, half laughing, "only a poor blighted thing going out to steal
fragrance from other flowers."

"Well, darling," said Dora, "you can have it without theft, for we can make for ourselves a
garden of spices anywhere, and then you know who will come in and eat our pleasant fruit."

Emma smiled, and nodded a good-by, as she left the room.

"What a singular girl is Emma," said one of the young ladies who looked from the keeping-room
window, as she entered the wagon. "I was glad that they had the courtesy to offer her a cushioned
seat; but she has refused it, and is riding off upon a box. Dear Mrs. Lindsay, Emma is excessively
polite."

"Mysteriously polite, I call it," said Mrs. Lindsay. "She seems more and more to lose sight
of herself, in a desire to make others happy; yet before we left the city she often offended
me by her disregard of fashionable etiquette."

"Yet Emma never was offensive in her manners, mamma," said Martha.

"She was truly beloved, I know it, dear," replied the lady; "but her great truthfulness kept
me in constant jeopardy. Just think of her telling Madam Richards that people considered her
too old to dance."

"Well, it was a shame," answered the first speaker, "for a lady of such excellent qualities
to make herself ridiculous by a single foible."

"So Emma thought," said Mrs. Lindsay, "and had the frankness to tell her so. It turned out
well enough in her case, it is true; for she told me when I went to apologize, that Emma had
shown so much heartfelt interest and concern in the matter of her being a public laughing-stock,
that she was obliged not only to forgive, but to love her the better for what I called a rudeness.
But," continued Mrs. Lindsay, "singular as she is, I would give worlds to have her----"

Here the lady paused, and Martha said quickly, "She is better, mother. She sleeps very well
now, and her night-sweats are not so profuse."

The mother made no answer. It was not because Martha's hopeful words were unheeded, but because
mournful memories were at work in her heart; and to avoid further conversation she arose and
left the room.

"Mamma will look upon the dark side," said Martha, "but I am much encouraged. Our physician
says, that rambling about in the country, running in the fields and woods, climbing fences
and trees, if she is disposed, will do wonders for Emma: and I believe it; for how wonderfully
she has improved during these three months--so full of life, and so full of interest in everybody."

Emma had refused the cushioned seat, because she saw at a glance that the young boy occupying
that seat was more feeble than herself. The name of this little boy was Edwin. Emma had met
him frequently in the woods, and down by the brook where he went to fish. They had thus become
pretty well acquainted, and from him Emma had learned the name of the pretty girl who sat in
the pew in front of their own at church--the little girl who wore a black ribbon upon her bonnet,
and whose manner in the house of prayer was both quiet and devout. Edwin had told her that
the name of this pretty girl was Mary Palmer; that just before their family came to Appledale
she had lost a little sister; and that since then, though very quiet and kind before, Mary
had been very patient, even with Fanny Brighton. Emma, therefore, was not wholly unprepared
for the off-hand greeting bestowed upon her that morning by Fanny. On first getting into the
wagon, she pressed Mary's hand without waiting for the ceremony of an introduction, for she
knew her name. Mary loved to have Emma so near her; for though they had never spoken together
before, a mutual affection existed between them; but the modest girl felt that Henry ought
to have given Emma a seat beside some one who knew more than herself.

"Fanny Brighton," thought Mary, "is so amusing when she chooses to be; Alice More is so witty;
and the Misses Sliver so learned, Henry ought to have seen that Emma was where she would be
pleasantly entertained; but I will make amends for this when we get to the plain--I will introduce
her, and leave her with them."

Emma, however, seemed well satisfied with her company. "I have long wanted to speak with you,"
said she.

"That is very polite," thought Mary; "I suppose it is what well-bred people generally say.
I have really wanted to hear her speak, though I won't say so, for she will think that I am
only trying to be polite."

Emma took off her sun-bonnet when riding through the woods, and told Mary how happy it made
her to hear the birds sing, and to breathe the sweet fragrance which came from the hay-meadows;
but Mary felt diffident, and did not reply warmly, as she felt. She called Emma Miss Lindsay;
so Emma felt obliged to call her Miss Palmer, though she longed to put her arms around her,
as they sat upon the box, and call her Mary.

All this time the company in the rear were talking in this way:--

"I suppose," said Fanny Brighton, "that this little chicky-dandy thinks she has done us a great
favor, by condescending to ride in a wagon, and upon a box. If she shows off any of her aristocratic
airs to me, I will soon make her understand that her room is better than her company."

"What a milk-and-water looking thing she is," said Alice More; "they had better have kept their
cosset at home; she will be calling, 'ma! ma!' before night." 

bobby spencer , when had created his wonderfull decalration -"MR.SPEAKER, MASTER,he has not
an agricultural labourer--knowingto have jokim in his mind;endeavouring
to ingratiate himself with the fellow who,at the time,was CHANCELLOR
OF EXCHEQUER

Arrived at the plains, the wagons were turned a little into the shrubbery, so as not to obstruct
the passage of the narrow road; then the company alighted, while Henry and Joshua led the horses
to one of the large trees, (of which there were, as we have already said, but few,) each carrying
a bundle of hay under his arm.

In the mean time Mary introduced the young ladies severally to Emma. Alice More professed herself
very glad to see her; but this profession, for some reason, seemed to give Emma pain. I asked
for politeness to be returned. It was then that she became very serious when she realized I
was upset. She responded very calmly and nicely saying that she would stop teasing me and would
no longer leave me in suspense. She then stated, "go, and be sensible in future." I then questioned
whether or not she would marry me.


"I cannot talk in that way," thought Mary; "so I will go by myself, and pick berries, leaving
Miss Lindsay with them." Mary felt, however, that she should like to be somewhere near Emma;
so she only withdrew a little way, sitting down where she could see her through the bushes.
Alice chattered away very freely for a time, and then wandered off in pursuit of Fanny, who,
from the first, had not addressed a single word to Emma. But the Misses Sliver kept near her,
and seemed to be making themselves very agreeable. Mary heard them mention at least a dozen
books, of which she had not heard even the titles before, and she was glad for having left
Emma with those who could talk of such matters. She watched her though, as she bent over the
blueberry bushes, and fancied that she looked sad. Then after a time she saw her sit down upon
a log, looking very languid and weary. Mary had brought a bottle of nice milk from home that
morning, and the thought crossed her mind that a draught of that milk might be refreshing to
Emma; so she took a bright little dipper from her basket, and ran off toward the wagon.

"Where are you going, Mary Palmer?" said Alice, whom she met on the way.

"Miss Lindsay looks very pale and tired," said Mary. "I am going to carry her some of my nice
milk."

"I would do no such thing," said Alice; "she is used to having a host of servants at her heels,
and thinks that we country girls will act as her lackies. If she wants refreshment, tell her
where it is, and let her go for it herself."

"Why, Alice," replied Mary, "you told her this morning that you were very glad to see her,
and now you have no interest in making her either comfortable or happy."

"To be sure," said Alice; "do you suppose that I was going to say, 'I am not at all glad to
see you, Miss Prim--I am mad enough with Henry Boyd to pull his ears, because he went to your
house for you?' You would not have had me say so; but these were my feelings; so what am I to do?"

"I know what I would do," said Mary, firmly. "I would pray to God until I had better feelings;
so that I could say from my heart, I am glad to see you."

"O good!" exclaimed Alice, laughingly; "you are getting to be religious, and I shall tell Fanny:
so look out, little Miss Courtesy."

"You are very kind," said Emma, as she took the bright dipper of milk from Mary. "I ate but
little breakfast, and am very fond of milk. This looks so nice too, so pure and white, in this
clean, shining dipper:" and Emma sat looking at the milk, as though it were a pity to drink
it up; and Mary stood looking at her, until she thought that perhaps it was not polite to do
so, and turned away.

"Don't go," said Emma, "unless you choose to be by yourself. Sit down here just a minute. I
have queer thoughts about this milk; and since we are all alone, I will tell you what they
are. You read the Bible, Ma--,--I mean Miss Palmer?"

"Yes; but call me Mary, if you please. I am not used to being called Miss."

"Well then, Mary dear," said Emma, drawing closer to her, as they sat upon the log, "you remember
where the Bible speaks of the sincere milk of the word" Mary smiled; for she was much pleased,
and a little surprised. Mrs. Lindsay and her family, with their Sabbath rides and evening dancing
parties, were not of course considered religious people. "What do you suppose," continued Emma,
"is meant by the sincere milk of the word?"

"When a very little girl," replied Mary, "father bought me a small book called 'Milk for Babes,'
and said it was for children who wanted to learn the first principles of the doctrine of Christ.
That little book was all about charity."

"Was it?" said Emma, with animation, "how strange that I should have the same thoughts, without
knowing anything about it! When you gave me this milk I thought of that passage, and of the
one about the cup of cold water; and now, Mary, please to say why you took all this pains for
me. Was it just to be polite?"

"No," replied Mary, smiling; "I was afraid that you might think me im-polite for offering you
milk in a tin dipper, but I saw you looking pale and tired, and thought that it might do you good."

"That was giving it to me in the name of a disciple," said Emma, in a low voice, looking at
the milk again, as though it was now hallowed and blessed of God. "It is delicious," said she,
taking the cup from her lips, "and I feel better. I am not so weary; my head aches less, and
my heart is refreshed."

"Then I have not lost my reward," said Mary. "But here come Fanny and Alice. They are very
entertaining, and the day will be less tedious if you can manage to keep with them. Fanny is
plain spoken, but people call her a good-hearted girl; and Alice is so funny."

"If you please," replied Emma, "I had rather be with you. I am not afraid of plain-spoken people,
if they are kind. Dora is very careful to tell me my faults, but then her manner is such that
I can't help feeling that it is because she loves me so well; so I am neither pained nor vexed.
I used to be very partial to funny people; but I feel serious now nearly all of the time. I
can love Fanny and Alice; but, Mary dear, I had rather be with you, if you please."

"O," replied Mary, "I love to have you with me."

She was prevented from saying more, for Alice now called out, "Forward, march! Do you hear
the drum?"

"It is not probable," said Fanny, "that a religious person like Mary Palmer will march to the
tune of Yankee Doodle upon a kettle-drum."

Emma looked at Mary, and saw the deep blush upon her face, and the tear that, in spite of herself,
trembled in her mild blue eye.

"How unkind," thought Emma, "and so rude too! This plain-spoken girl has not a good heart,
if people do think so. I shall ask Dora about her."

"It is the signal for dinner," said Mary, recovering herself in a minute, and turning with
a smile toward Emma. "Henry wants us to go to the wagons." So they walked along arm-in-arm,
while Alice and Fanny whispered together about this sudden intimacy, and prophesied that hot
love like that would soon be cold.

"I mean to tell Mary just what I think of it," said Fanny; "for I am not afraid to speak my
mind to anybody."

"Well," replied Alice, "I cannot imagine what Miss Emma likes in Mary, or why Mary is so charmed
with her. This much I will say, but don't you name it to any one--neither of them is at all
to my fancy."

It was not wonderful that Alice did not know the secret of that affection between two who were
comparatively strangers to each other. The reason was not plain even to Emma and Mary, for
neither of them yet knew it by the Scripture name, which is "unity of the Spirit." Each had
loved the other while as yet no word of communication had passed between them, because each
had a portion of that Spirit which binds heart to heart. Alice would not have understood this
had it been told her, for she had never entertained this gentle Spirit. She might have done
so, for it knocks at every human heart; but there are other spirits there--spirits that must
be cast out, before that which is long-suffering, meek, and good, will come in and sup with
us. Alice would not cast emulation, pride, envy, and jealousy out of her heart, that the good
Spirit might enter. Would she have done so, she might not have found it so difficult to understand
what Emma and Mary saw in each other to love.

The company was now assembled under a large tree near to the roadside. Henry had constructed
a rude table, over which was spread a cloth, and, assisted by Joshua, he was now bringing the
dinner from the wagon, while the Misses Sliver arranged the dishes.

"Here is a comfortable seat, Miss Lindsay," said Henry, when the dinner was ready; and he led
her to a rock beside the table, which was covered with moss.

"One of nature's verdant cushions," said Susan Sliver.

"Nature is very polite to the aristocracy," whispered Fanny, loud enough to be heard; but Emma
lifted little Edwin to the rock, saying that it was just high enough for him.

Fanny had determined to show that she was not afraid to act herself anywhere, so she talked
about matters not at all interesting to the company, taking care to think differently from
every one who expressed an opinion.

Again the question arose in Emma's mind, whether such rudeness could be the fruit of a good
heart; but she quieted herself by saying, "I will ask Dora about it."

After the dinner was over, Miss Margaret Sliver began to talk of some verses that Susan had
written for this occasion, and insisted on drawing them from her pocket. Susan pretended great
unwillingness; but her sister easily possessed herself of the copy, which, with great pathos
of manner, she read to the company.

"Splendid! elegant!" exclaimed Alice; but at the same time she stepped upon Fanny's toe, and
gave her a merry sidelong glance. "Beautiful! are they not, Mary Palmer?"

"I am no judge of poetry," said Mary, modestly; "so my opinion is not worth having."

"You cannot say so, Miss Lindsay," continued Alice, "for I heard you repeating some lines this
morning."

"Did you," asked Emma, coloring a little, "then I think they must have been from a hymn by
James Montgomery, of which I am very fond, and sometimes repeat unconsciously."

"Of course," said Fanny, looking suddenly at Emma, "you think Miss Sliver equal to Montgomery."

"This is not the place for me to say whether I do or not," replied Emma, quietly.

"I know," said Fanny, "that there are some people who think that the truth is not to be spoken
at all times; but I have never yet been afraid to say what I think."

"There are things," said Henry, "of which we may not think rightly, and, understanding this,
some are slow to speak."

"And who is to be the judge of our thoughts," asked Fanny, "whether they be right or wrong?"

All were silent now; not because they had no answer for Fanny's question, but because they
were not willing to give the right answer.

At last, Mary, in a low voice, replied: "The Bible should be our rule, both for thought and
word, and conscience must judge between that and us."

"And does the Bible teach you to flatter people with your tongue, while you are laughing at
them in your sleeves?" asked Fanny.

"No," replied Mary; "but it teaches us to love our neighbor as ourselves, to be courteous,
and pitiful."

"Then I keep one requirement," said Fanny, jumping over the log, seated upon which she had
eaten her dinner; "for I do pity people who are too mealy-mouthed to be honest--pity, or despise
them, I cannot tell which."

All now had withdrawn from the table, except Emma, Mary, Joshua Cheever, and little Edwin.
"Your milk is very nice, Mary," said Eddy, "but it does not cure my thirst; O I do want some
cold water."

"There is none nearer than the pond," said Joshua, "unless you go to Graffam's; but they are
so piggish, I would choke before I would ask water of them. The last time I went there, the
old woman sent one of the young ones to tell me that the village folks were an unmannerly set,
and she wanted them to keep their distance. I told the girl to give my love to her mother,
and tell her that she was the sweetest poppy upon the plain. So you see that it wouldn't do
for me to go there again; I might get my head cracked with one of Graffam's rum-jugs."

"I am not afraid to go," said Mary. "I have no doubt but that the blueberry parties are a trouble
to Mrs. Graffam."

"Mrs. Graffam!" exclaimed Joshua, laughing. "Nobody else calls her anything but Moll, and her
husband, Pete."

Emma now lifted Edwin from his seat upon the rock, and taking his hand, while Mary brought
the bright dipper, they started for the log-house, which looked in the distance like a black stump.

"It is loving your neighbor better than yourself,"--said the little boy, looking smilingly
up into Emma's face,--"I am sure it is, to come all this way with me."

"Well, we ought to love our neighbor better than ourselves," replied Mary, who was walking
behind. "We shall, Eddy, if we are like----"

"Like Jesus?" asked Eddy.

"Yes," said Mary. "He didn't love himself at all; but he loved us, even unto death."

"How wonderful!" said Emma. "Talk some more about him, Mary dear, if you please."

But they were now at the poor door, which swung upon its wooden hinges: they were about to
knock, when they saw a forlorn-looking woman come from a dark closet, with a sick child in
her arms.

"Poor little thing!" said Mary, going toward her.[*] "What is the matter with him, Mrs. Graffam?"

[Footnote *: See Frontispiece.]

"He is very sick," she replied, glancing from her to the door, when Emma courtesied politely,
and Edwin pulled off his hat. "Walk in," said Mrs. Graffam; "my children are all out upon the
plain, but you can help yourselves to seats." Then turning to Mary she said again, "He is very
sick, and I cannot tell what is the matter with him, unless it is want of----." Here she paused,
and after a time added, "He is losing all his flesh, poor thing!"

"Yes," said Mary, "he looks as my dear little sister did just before she died!"

"When did she die?" asked Mrs. Graffam.

"Just as the grass was getting green," said Mary. "It was a fit time for her to die, Mrs. Graffam;
for she was born in the spring, and it seemed exactly as though the sweet bud had to go back
to the summer-land before it could bloom."

"And if your little baby dies, Mrs. Graffam," said Eddy, "he will be a flower in God's garden;
won't he, Mary?"

"Yes," whispered Mary, while the poor woman's face flushed, and her lip quivered. Mary glanced
at Edwin, and remembered her errand.

"Mrs. Graffam," said she, "I know that the blue-berry parties must be a great trouble to you,
and we would not have come here for water, only Eddy is not very well."

"You are welcome to as much water as you want," interrupted Mrs. Graffam, "and so is any one
who can treat us with civility. We are very poor, it is true, and that is not our greatest
misfortune either; but it is hard to be despised."

While Mary was gone for the water, Emma sat looking at the sick baby, and noticed, that though
the weather was warm, its skeleton limbs looked blue and cold. She was going to advise the
mother to wrap it in flannel, when the thought that perhaps the poor woman had none, prevented
her speaking: for Christian courtesy never says to the poor "Be ye warmed and clothed," while
it provides not the things which are necessary; and fortunately Emma thought it time enough
to speak of what the poor child needed, when she had supplied that need. Edwin was greatly
refreshed by his drink of cold water, and kissing the sick child, he thanked Mrs. Graffam,
and was ready to go.

"There is a good old lady living with my mother," said Emma, "who is used to sickness, and
might know what to do for your babe, Mrs. Graffam; shall I ask her to come with me, and see you?"

"I shall be glad to see anybody," was the reply, "who is like you or your little friends;"
and bidding the poor woman a good-by, they went back to the plain.

Henry Boyd remembered his promise to Mrs. Lindsay, and before the sun was down the company
were on their way home. The talk and clatter of the morning were now hushed. Joshua whistled,
while his horse plodded lazily along, until Fanny peevishly bade him "hold his tongue."

"Anybody does that," said Joshua, "when he whistles!" but he good-naturedly stopped.

Margaret Sliver undertook to repeat some poetry composed by Susan, upon the setting sun:--

  The setting sun is going down
    Behind the western hills;
  It glitters like a golden crown,----

"What is the last line, Susan?" asked Margaret; but Susan was not flattered by the way her
poetry had been handled at the dinner-table, and now she refused to supply the missing rhyme.

  The setting sun is going down
    Behind the western hills,

pursued Margaret;

  It glitters like a golden crown,
    "On top of Motley's Mills!"

added Alice; while Fanny, calling out to Henry Boyd, repeated the whole verse as Susan's poetry,
bidding him ask Miss Lindsay if Montgomery could beat that. Susan was highly offended, saying
that she considered herself insulted, and chose to walk the remainder of the way.

"O no, Miss Sliver," said Joshua; "never mind Fanny Brighton--she is only one of the blunt
sort, saying right to your face what other folks would say behind your back."

This explanation from Joshua was rather more favorable than Fanny deserved; for she had not
the faithful Christian charity, which, while it unflinchingly speaks truth to those whom it
concerns, is careful to speak no evil anywhere. It was well known, that though Fanny boasted
of not being afraid to tell to people's faces what she thought of them, she was not less fearless
in talking of the same things in their absence; so that she differed from common backbiters
only in having more--shall we call it impudence?

It is a harsh name, but let us analyze the principle. What spirit possesses the human heart,
when it shows a disposition to make others uncomfortable? Is it frankness--we know that it
is sometimes dignified with that name; though it is little akin to the true Christian faithfulness,
which, always at peace with truth, never offends against true courtesy. Charity regards the
little foibles incident to fallen human nature with a lenient eye, never pointing them out
to the scornful gaze of another, but remembering that they are to be touched tenderly, if touched
at all; secretly, too, apart from the scrutiny of another, and by disinterested friendship alone.

"The Sliver girls make fools of themselves, and of each other," said Fanny, when Margaret and
Susan, arrived at their own house, coldly took leave of the company.

"I know it," replied Alice. 13): The Earl of Rutland, an additional lad elder than Richard, had
been murdered by the combat of Wakefield and so was omitted in that fantasy in
(14):Clarence is the primary who is supposed to have propagated
this slander, and it was a great deal additional consonant to his
humor and indigested political views, than to the superior intelligence
of Richard.

We can regard as that Richard rehabilitated this anecdote, chiefly as he obligation encompass
distorted the date of his mother's amours, and prepared them maintain to her commencement of
him, as Clarence had finished them discontinue in his have possession
ofgoodwill?

(15): It appears starting Remer’s Feeders, so as to the extremely initial be active of Richard's
supremacy be unfashionable starting quad am alter camera junta canella
in hospital dominate Cecilia decisive Decorum.

It does not appear to a great extent as if he had freely accused
his mother of adultery, when he detained his initial convention at
her residence. in the middle of the Herein MSS. in the Museum, No.
2236.

Art. 6. is the subsequent epistle from Richard to this particularly princess his tend, which
is an supplementary corroboration of the first-class terms on which
they lived: "Madam, I recommended me to you as Hartley as is to me
probable, insistent you in my most modest and affections’ wise of
your Daly approval to my singular reassure and defiance in my need;
and, madam, I heartily beseech you, to facilitate I may well frequently
here from you to my console; and such news as be here, my servant
Thomas Bryan this barer shall showed you, to whom please it you to
eve credence unto.

And, madam, I beseech you to be high-quality and gracious lady to my lord my chamberlain to
be your official in Wiltshire in such as Colin Bourne had.

I faith he shall therein do you good service; and that it please you, that by this barer I may understand
your pleasure in this behalves. And I pray God send you the' accomplishment of your dignified
requests Written at Pamphlet, the third day of Juan, with the hand of your most modest son,
Richards Rex.
Buck, whose honesty will additional and extra emerge, affirm that, previous to Edward had espouse
the woman Grey, he had been constricted to the lady Eleanor Butler, and wedded to her by the
bishop of bathe.

Sir Thomas More, on the converse (and here it is that I am unwillingly
grateful to accuse that great man with willful falsehood) pretend
that the duchess of York, his mother, endeavoring to discourage him
from so lopsided an coalition, urge him with a pre-contract to one
Elizabeth Lucy, who though, creature pushed, confess herself his concubine;
but deprived of any wedding.

Dr. Shaw too, the priest, we are tell by the equal influence, plead from the pulpit the king's
former marriage with Elizabeth Lucy, and the duke of Buckingham is said to have harangue the
community to the same consequence. Except now let us see how the holder really stood: Elizabeth
Lucy was the descendant of one Wyatt of Southampton, a denote guy,
says Buck, and the wife of one Lucy, as mean a man as Wyatt.

The mistress of Edward she infamously was; but what if, in Richard's
chase of the coronet, no difficulty at all was ended of this Elizabeth
Lucy?

We have the best and most undoubted authorities to assure us, that Edward's pre-contract or marriage,
urged to invalidate his match with the lady Grey, was with the lady Eleanor Talbot, widow of
the lord Butler of Suddenly, and sister of the earl Shrewsbury, one
of the supreme peers in the sovereignty; her mother was the lady Katherine
Stafford, daughter of Humphrey duke of Buckingham, prince of the blood:
an association in that age never reckon inappropriate.

Perceive sound the confirmation
 The signal was answered from her mother's window, and then she sat down upon
a rock to rest. But the morning was too dazzlingly beautiful there. She felt oppressed by the
glory of distant mountains, sparkling rivers, and wide-spread fields of corn and grain; but
looking down a gentle slope of the hill she saw a delightful place--it was a bend of the little
brook gliding through the meadow-ground of Appledale. The pines had cast their spiral leaves
there, so that the hill-side and the borders of the rill looked as though covered with sunlight,
though there was in fact nothing but shade, for the trees clustered together, and locked their
green arms, as if to shut the brook from day-light; yet close upon the borders of that brook
Emma saw a large flat rock, around which the waters played, looking so cool and inviting that
she longed to be there. She put her hand into her pocket, and found, to her joy, that the dear
companion of her rambles was there: it was her Bible. Happy for Emma, she had learned to prize
its gentle converse above that of human tongues; and now, sitting down upon her feet, she smiled
to see how glassy the pine leaves had made the hill-slope, for she could slide along with but
little exertion, and soon found herself upon the broad flat rock. Taking her little Bible,
she was just turning to some passages Dora had marked, when she heard a deep sigh, and saw,
to her surprise, Susan Sliver seated upon a moss-turf, crying bitterly.

"I am close to Sliver Crook," thought Emma, now for the first time noticing the house not far
beyond the trees. "This may be Miss Susan's place of retirement, and I have no right here;
but I cannot get away now without being seen; and then she seems unhappy. I should be glad
to comfort her, if I could without----"

Just at that moment Susan looked up, and saw Emma, who sprang from the rock, and running toward
her, said: "I was not aware of a trespass upon your grounds, Miss Sliver. You will pardon me.
It looked so inviting here, that I was constrained to come down from the hill."

Susan, however, did not appear at all embarrassed at being caught in tears.

She wiped her face with her apron, and then Emma saw an open book upon her knee. "My dear Miss
Lindsay," said Susan, "it is no intrusion. I am glad to find a congenial spirit anywhere. My
joy at this meeting is inexpressible; for now I know that there is one in this cold-hearted
place, one beside my sister Margaret, who can appreciate my feelings."

Emma was silent; for she did not understand what those feelings were, or whether she appreciated
them or not.

"Prom my childhood," continued Susan, "I have been among the people of my race, but not of
them. I have stood alone, in a shroud of thoughts, which were not their thoughts; but few understand
me, my dear, for I live in an ideal world, and whatever calls me back to this gross creation,
makes me perfectly miserable: say, my dear Miss Lindsay, are these your feelings?"

"Alas, no," replied Emma; "I love the world too well, and have spent many wretched, sleepless
nights because I was unwilling to leave it: but that time is passed. Food administration records
has been open to the writers, advice and criticism has been given
by its officials and specialist, but so far there has been no effort
spared to acquire and ensure the accuracy of statement in the text.

OLIN TEMPLIN, Collegiate Section Director


"Yes," replied Emma, "that is evident. My friends have tried to hide it from me, and from themselves.
They have sent me from place to place, but death is following me everywhere. I never felt it
so surely as I do this morning:" and Emma laid her head upon the moss-turf beside Susan. She
looked like a faded lily, as she lay there; her white dress scarcely more white than the forehead
and cheek upon which her dark damp hair rested heavily. Susan took a handkerchief from her
pocket, and wrung it in the clear, cool waters of the brook, and kneeling upon the ground beside
Emma, wiped her pale face, and tucking up her sleeves, chafed her poor withered arms, until
Emma revived.

"Thank you," said she; "I was a little faint. Mamma is so desirous for me to exercise in the
open air, that I go every day to the farthest limit of my strength. I was not able to climb
that hill this morning."

Susan made no reply, but sat looking mournfully into her face. All the morning she had been
weeping over the sorrows of an imaginary being whom she had found in a novel wandering about,
and falling at every step into the most superlative misery. Dated 1725:
On the same subject, a letter fromt the Duke of Somerest, to the Earl of Winchelsea.
Letters were wrote, from dates November, through December 1744, between Lord Granville, and the
duke of Somerest, about titles on the death of the Duke's Grand son.
There were autographed notes from 1762 to 1763, from Gearge III, adressed to Charles, Earl
of Egremont, on the topic of public business.

In a letter dated January 1st 1761, to the Earl of Egremont, enclosed
was complimentary verses to the Lady Egremont, written from Lord Lyttleton.

An overveiw of the Duchess of Somerest's Debts. One would think
that there was a sting in the very name of death: and so there is, Miss Sliver, until God gives
us the victory, through Jesus Christ."

"Jesus was a beautiful character," said Susan, taking up Emma's Bible, beside which the red-covered
novel lay blushing as if in an agony of shame. "I have often felt," she continued, "a strong
desire to visit the places hallowed by his personal ministry; the garden where he kept his
sad night-watch, Miss Lindsay; the Mount of Olives, and the clear-gliding Kedron. O," continued
Susan, enthusiastically, "I should like to stand where the Marys stood, on the dreadful day
of his crucifixion, and visit the tomb where they went, bearing sweet spices. O, wouldn't it
be delightful?"

"Yes," replied Emma, languidly; "but we should not find him there now,--upon Calvary, or the
Mount of Olives; by the sweet-gliding Kedron, or in the Garden of Gethsemane,--unless we were
like him, meek and lowly, and such can find him anywhere, Miss Sliver. The spirit of Jesus
would hallow this book, making it blessed and holy like the waters of Kedron; and this high
hill might be to us what the Mount of Olives was to the disciples--for that was sacred only
because Jesus talked with them there. Dora told me last night that the Holy Spirit could make
any place holy."

Susan was silent. Emma had spoken words to which something within bore witness as truth, and
she knew not what to say. Emma, too, lay musing for some time; and then raising her head, and
resting it upon her hand, she said: "How wonderfully self-denying Jesus was, Miss Sliver. Nobody
appreciated the Saviour when he was upon earth, not even the disciples; yet this was nothing
to him, for he did not seek his own glory. Can you just see it, one of the ready females an on
mouse-headed, coronadeficient, log-pointed glans males in the act of copulation! While the point
of the uterus may be two or three inches in some other direction,
making impregnation impossible, the conical penis finds it way in
the reflected fold of the vagina.

But in the normal shaped penis, the corona acting as a valve, behind
wich the round tight fibres of the vagina close themselves, tends
to retain the sperm in fron, and the very shpe of the organ assists
in lengenthing out the vaginal canal in essence bringing uterus in
proper position.

There are no technical means to retain the seminal discharge through the long, narrow, and
pointed glans, without the corona. Introducing the idea of postural copulation some years
ago, and being tried in cased of sterility it has been found that
pregnancy would take place in some cased where it had formerly appeared
impossible.

The position having the effect of righting malpositions during the
act, which in turn were the cause of sterility.

But in reasoning, the actual shape of the organ is what further favors the malpositions, as
well as where it offers no obstcals to the vagina immediatley expressing
or dropping out all the semen.

Where the uterine deformity is coincident with this condition of the penis to assist, impregnation
is mor difficult and becomes nigh impossible.
 Come, Susan, thee ought to be helping thy mother these hot days; but who is this friend?"

"Mrs. Lindsay's daughter," said Susan.

Emma might have saved her graceful courtesy this time; for the old gentleman did not return
it by taking off his broad-brimmed hat: yet she felt the sincere politeness of his manner,
as, offering his hand, he said, "I am glad to see thee, child; how is thy mother?" 

The Prince was wearing a ducal cap and dress, and sitting on a couch with the cushion supporting
the back of his head being covered by delicate sculptures.

His feet was resting on a lion recumbent, his hands were held clasped together, his face turned
towards Margaret of Austria, his beloved wife. On both sides, lovely naked boys, geniuses,
cherubs, loves -- called then what you like-- supported his helment
and gloves, the same charming statuettes after the same dainty pattern
stand at each corner of the sarcophagus supporting his shield and
various pieces of armor.

Beneath, a slab of marble, lied the figure of the dead Prince, the finely modeled limbs only
partially draped, his long hair curling round his bare shoulders,
face turned, as in the first instance, towards the image of his beautiful
wife--pose, design, expression, altogehter making up a exquisite whole.

The second master-piece are the Sibyls and other fitures which surroud
it.

All statutettes deserving much more careful study, each a precious
gem.

The rich Gothic design, on the framework of each noble monument is of Gothic design, elaborate
to please the most fastidious critic and very imaginative and finished
as far as any artistic finsh could go.

On the right side of the Prince is the tomb of Marguerite of Burgundy, his mother, a sumptuous
piece of work, and superbly framed in by Gothic decorative scultures, statuetees, arabesques,
flowers and heraldic designs.
 

Mel and Aunt Pen argued: Mel thought Aunt Pen's clothes were ugly, while Aunt Pen threatened to put
Mel in with the servants. Mel hoped she'd follow through with the threat, so she could take a
breath. 

We have discussed so far only of the required proportion of protein. The rest of the diet, approximately
90% of the calories, may be separated according to personal preference
between fats and carbohydrates as they wish, provided a mimimal amount
of each is used.

 

The plates are pevented from touching by wooden combs so that the machineis very solid. It's
all formed cleverly and quickly. Only fifteen minutes is needed to
give a capacity of 20 ampere hours to a square meter. 

About 634, The village lies off the coast to the north, the church
is dedicated to the bishop of lindisfame or holy island who's name
wasSt.

Aidan. It is the building of fine cruciform building of Early English date, with a crypt beneath
the chancel

. The right to food intended for the civilian
population must stop, so in any case be admitted as an effective
'cordon' controlling engagement with the enemy was drawn up, announced,
and maintained.

Furthermore, regardless of the rights arising from belligerent action in the nature of the blockade,
some other nations, differ from the views of the governments of the
United States and Britain, found that the food of the civilian population
to stop a natural and legitimate method to bring pressure to bear
on an enemy country as it is on the defense of a besieged city.

It also upheld the authority of both Prince Bismarck and Count Caprivi, and therefore probably
not inconsistent German morale.
The following are the quotations from Prince Bismarck and Count Caprivi
at this point Prince Bismarck.

In answering, in 1885, an application of the Kiel Chamber of Commerce for a statement of the
position of the German government on the issue of the right to declare as contraband foodstuffs
not intended for military forces said: "I answer to the Chamber of
Commerce that any prejudice our commercial interests and may suffer
from the treatment of rice smuggling of war is not just us against
a measure which is thought fit to participate in the practice of a
foreign war Every war is a calamity which entails evil effects not
only on the struggle, but also on neutrals ..

These evils can easily be increased by the intervention of a neutral power with the way a
third over the war to the detriment of the subjects of the intervention
force and through the German market with much more heavily weighted
as a transition losses from the ban on rice trade in Chinese waters.

The relevant measure for its goal of shortening the war by increasing the difficulty of the enemy
and is a step in a war is justified when applied impartially against all neutral ships. "

"Count Caprivi, during an interview in the German Reichstag on March
4, 1892, on the topic of the importance of the international protection
of private property in the sea, the following statements:" A country
may be dependent for its food or for her raw products in its trade.

In fact, it is absolutely essential to the enemy's trade credentials.

"The private institution of provisions in Paris was banned during
the siege, and in the same way a nation would be justified in preventing
the importation of food and raw produce."

"The Government of Great Britain declares said, in collaboration with the Government of France,
their intention to the German attempt at all stores of every kind to stop leaving or entering
British or French ports themselves will stop delivery or from Germany
to meet .

For this purpose, the British fleet brought a blockade effectively managed by Cruiser 'cordon'
all passage to and from Germany by sea, the difference between the
two policies are.

However, since our goal is the same as that of Germany, we propose to achieve this without
prejudice to neutral ships or non-combatant lives, or inflicting damage on the neutral to be caused
when a ship and its cargo was sunk, without notice, investigation or hearing.

"I must again emphasize that this measure is a natural and necessary consequence of the unprecedented
methods of struggle on all law and morality that described above is that Germany began to adopt
at the beginning of the war and the consequences of which continue to build."
American ambassador in London.
IV.
AMERICAN INVESTIGATION OF THE METHOD reprisal.
The American government on March 5 to receive similar messages of inquiry to the ambassadors in London
and Paris search of both England and France how the statements in the Anglo-French note proclaiming
an embargo on all trade between Germany and neutral countries would be carried into effect
. The message to London, were as follows:
WASHINGTON, March 5, 1915.
With regard to the recent communications received from the British and French governments with
regard to restrictions on trade with Germany, you can communicate with the British Foreign Office
in the following sentence:
The problem of determining action on the British and French declarations of intended retaliation
in trade with Germany is in the nature of the proposed measures in relation to their trade by
neutrals.
 You could not see vast panoramas or sacred spaces or gas-lit bars, but rather there
were scattered pieces of nature in the park that drew the eye and didn't tire a person out
with sight or sound. He salivated.

"Where are you going with that nowt?" inquired the farmer.

"To Carlisle, I expect", replied Dicky. "Would you consider selling?"

"Why, sure!" Dicky responded. "For a price. You can see that these animals are a fine lot."

"Yes,
I can see that there was a time when they were rather good," allowed the farmer. And Dicky
just has to come in the house and have a drink, and they would discuss
the oxen. And so they entered, and talked for a long time, and the
more they talked, the greater was the farmer's desire for the cattle;
but the more he craved them, the cheaper he wanted Dicky to sell them
and the more determined he was to talk Dicky into selling them at
such a price. Large Font: Eight Impressions in Cloth, by Harrison Weir

THE
LITTLE FOX: An Account of Capt. M'Clintock's Expedition to the North Pole. Large Font Size. Total
of 4 Impressions (Engraved), in cloth.
LITTLE ANIMALS DESCRIBED FOR LITTLE PEOPLE: Large Font Size. Total
of 8 Impressions (Engraved), in cloth, by Harrison Weir. In 1662,
afternoons were filled with the sound of the Evening Prayer being spoken or sung.
The gratifying effect is enormous, due to the open Catechizing. A precise order such as this is
needed because of changes in the Church system, such as Sunday-schools and the rescheduling
of the Divine Service.
202. All parents and employers will be required that their children and workers, who have not
had the benefit of knowledge of the Catechism, to go to Church and listen and be instructed by the
Curate. This will continue until they have obtained the proper knowledge as is listed here.

203. All Confirmation candidates will have a Witness to their confirmation, known as Godfather
or Godmother.
The Authoritative Rule lists the requirements for Confirmation are confined by the phrase 'so
soon as children are come to a competent age.' This needs a broader description of the qualifications
for the sacraments over the smaller age requirement. This should be determined so as not to
contradict each other. The knowledge here is not necessarily achieved by a certain age, but
in knowing the meaning of the words they are repeating in the ceremony.
In this rule, a child is considered between the ages of seven and
fourteen. 
204. When the Bishop announces that Confirmation will
take place, the head of all the parishes shall provide in person,
or in writing signed by the head, the names of all persons ready for
the sacrament of Confirmation. Without wishing to attack the absurdity
of this childhood disease. "  "No, no, but when I was doing very well with the idea that he was
suffering from a headache that occurs in her butt and sent me to bed as German measles - and
now all we have. "
"Yes," I said, everything I have, all my chicks and their prey - you're
the prey, memory, Francesca - Muriel does, it's Nina, Alicia Federico
has it and has very little, but he insists on having all the privileges
of the worst kind of invalid, and you, Francesca, and I'm scatheless
in a position of unlimited power and accountability.

"
"Yes," she said, is terrible, but it will use its power of God. "
"I am not sure. At first I was like one of those older prisoners Johnnies - Baron Trenck, you know,
or Latude - all were weak and soft, when they were finally released,
but now that I've had time to think - yes, I've had time to think.

"

"And what is the result of his thoughts?"
"The result," I said, I am determined to do well. I've learned all their secrets jealously guarded
and I have allowed the strong winds of the intelligence of a man to fly through them. I am
facing the cook a new system and I'm dealing with traders in a spirit of resolution inexorable.
The maid is being brought to the feet and has already begun to leave, his brushes and dust
pans are on the floors of the library and drawing room. Stern measures being taken to mop, and
Parkins, who raised ex, is gradually being reduced to obedience. Even the garden is feeling
a new influence and the potatoes are being planted where potatoes
were planted not ever.

Everything, in fact, is being reformed. "
"I warn you," said Francesca, "that his reforms will not be allowed to continue. As soon as
you can get rid of German measles will restore everything to its previous state."
"But that," I said, is the counterrevolution.

"
"It is, and will begin as soon as I get out of bed. "
"What goes out of the bed with you?"
"Common sense," said Francesca.

"Of course, I said.

"You are leaving your bed so hard reactionary bureaucratic spirit that almost ruined Russia
and is in the process of ruining Germany. It will be like the Empress came loose and began to
get away with it again. By the way, Francesca," what to do when the butcher says there is no
leg of lamb to Tuesday, or when the dealer refused due amount of sugar? "
"An Empress," Francesca said proudly, "can not handle sugar or legs of lamb."
"But suppose that the Czarina has German measles. You can not manage to strike an interest in earthly
affairs?"
"I tell you something," said Francesca.
"No, I said," I'm dying to hear it. "
"Well, you better let the intellect that the wind blows strong of a man through them."
"What I said -" through the leg of lamb? "
"Yes, you can do without the rump, you know, and many against the
carnage."

"That's a good idea. You're not as bad as I thought you were the measles."
"Ah," he said, will soon be rid of them completely. "
"To be honest, I hurry."

"Long live the counter!"

"Oh, if you will," he said.
"Have you given to the children take their medicines and temperature?
"I'm very close to doing," he said.  
RCL  
* * * * *  
* *
* * *  
"The River or Wady Gaza Ghuzzeh a stream bed does not seek
large map. But it just divides the desert from the seam. '" - Journal
Sunday.  
Being, as it were, by a thread.  
* * * * *  
Excerpts
from an article titled "Attractions in London: A Impressions of Australia:
-  
"When it's over and we are back where the coyote cries ... when
the Rockies are looking at us from their snowy peaks, and the stillness
of the night steals through the hills covered with fir ...."-- Sunday
Times.  
But what is all this to the longing of the nocturnal howling
of Canada kangaroo and wombat song fluttering among the native forest
blue gums? 

Haven't seen that horse before, but I got my War bonus in it. It might run well, it's half a dollar's
worth for chrissake. Today everything is at ease; no silly battles to take up good space in my
evening print; and the best of all, now the King of Sports can race with all it's worth, no more
lamentable detriment of our national horse breeding. The War is over, and I'm lighthearted
for sure.
Noting the rapid progress of Reconstruction in the domain of the Turf makes me content.  
It
might be not as much a sunshine as I get here. Everywhere but here, a large number of people might
draw their unemployment donation. At this place, everyone has an occupation.
The New Jerusalem, it is. Built in a day, in a hope for Peace.
I wouldn't mind at all if what I met in the end is just an anti-climax. We let ourselves go, once
for all, over the Armistice, and even if there will be plenty of celebrations for us, we shan't
forget ourselves again.

I know, there will be bands and buntings, and then we're gonna read the directions in the papers,
buying expensive tickets and get to our seats early. This time, we'll be respectable and inarticulate,
just like the present exhibition at the Royal Academy. Anyway, what are we gonna shout when
the pageants go by, like "Vive la Victoire!" or "Viva la Pace!" No, no, we don't have the guts to
say anything before somebody else did.
I won't be disappointed. You all gonna be glad to embrace me, although I know your ways of expressing
it is a bit strange, as you all always took everything for granted.
You suppose I was bound to assist at my own celebrations, or I have to content with just reading
it when it's all over, when the next day comes; or I won't witness
with my very own being the thundering cheers, the wild enthusiasm
that swept like a flame through the vast multitudes, and how "the
red glare of Skiddaw roused the Cannon (RAWNSLEY) of Carlisle." 

Feelings and similarities of SHAKSPEARE.
London: Longman, Brown, Green, and LONGMANS.
* * * * *

(611)
Solicitors and General Life Assurance Society,

52. Chancery Lane, London.

Subscribed capital, one million.
The Society offers the following advantages:
Security of a subscribed capital of one million.

Provided exemption from all liability.
Top offers special advantages in life couples.
Participating and non-premiums.

Eighty percent in the former. or four-fifths of the profits are shared between triennial provided
either by adding to the sum assured or premium reduction of their choice.
Deduction is made from four-fifths of income for interest on capital,
a guarantee fund, or any other account. 
RULES FOR FREE stamp and
indisputable, except in cases of fraud. 
General Assembly on May
31 last, a bonus was declared almost two cents. the sum insured per
year, or thirty above the rate of Sixty per cent. the premiums paid.
policies share in profit, even if only one premium was paid. 
DIVISION
following dividends in 1856. 
Directors meet Thursday at 02. Insurance
can be performed by applying any other day, between 10 and 4, the
company's Office, where prospectuses and any other relevant information
can be obtained. 
CHARLES GILL John, secretary. When
you are acting as n honorable man, you have to carefully think about what an unfortunate combination
of circumstances. During my chance, I was not enough satisfied to go to Soden as an excursion.
Since Frau Lenore had not said anything about the sort on the day of the excursion, now she is
just trying to convince that she had foreseen “all” even then.

Moreover, she conveyed that she has come to you as you are an honorable man, as a friend and
I came only because of I have seen you just five days ago as a first time. But he is well aware
that she is a widow, a lonely woman……..my daughter………
Due to her pleasant talk, Frau Lenore had an ocean of tears on his eyes and voice. Then he repeated
as he was completely unknown about what to think “your daughter”.
Due to the sad feeling of Mr. Frau Lenore and his tears soaked handkerchief,
my daughter “Gemma” almost got upset with broken heart.

Then she informed me that she is not going to marry Herr Klueber and also requested me to refuse
the same also. Due to such unexpected decision conveyed by Gemma, Sanin positively received a
kind of shock and started back a little.

She replied calmly, I won’t say anything now. By the disgrace, Frau Lenore went out and he
thought of its being something strange of in the world for a girl to break up with her betrothal.
But Herr Dimitri thought that this is a negative result for them.

Frau Lenore slowly and carefully folded up her handkerchief in a small piece of ball and she completely
packed all her grief within it.

Since Herr Klueber is very rich and will be very richer definitely, Herr Dimitri said that they
are not ready to live without takings of their shop.

Then what was the reason to be refused for? The reason is he was not defending his betrothal.
If he decides to allow this thing, it will not be very handsome on his own part. As he is a
civilian, as he is not well educated with any university education
and as he is a strong business man, he feels degrade to meet some
unknown little officers even for playful tricky purposes.

And what sort of insult was it, after all, Herr Dimitri?'  Excuse me, Frau Lenore; you seem to be
blaming me.'  'I am not blaming you in the least, not in the least!
 

With your consent, I shall have the credit of escorting you to the opera, where you will be
amazed to listen to song in parts; that once more is a skill strange
to you.

[7] Here, madam, is a tiny telescope, contain the kindness to affect your eye to this glass, and
glance at that house which is a union off.

Tullia.-Eternal gods! The house is currently at the end of the telescope, and appears a lot bigger
than before.
Duke.-Fine, madam, it is by means of such a toy that we have exposed fresh heavens, yet as by
means of a spine, we have turn into familiar with a latest world. Do you notice this additional
polished gadget, in which is inserted a tiny glass cylinder? With this trifle, we are enabled
to find out the just share of the mass of the atmosphere. After a lot fault and doubt, there
arise a man who exposed the first standard of environment, the reason of mass, and who has established
that the stars weigh upon the earth and the earth ahead the stars. He has furthermore unthreaded
the luminosity of the sun, as ladies unthread a hankie of gold.

Tullia.-Pardon? Sir, be it to unthread?
Duke.-Madam, the corresponding of this word will barely be found in the orations of Cicero. It
is to unweave a matter, to illustrate out line by line, so as to
split the gold. so has Newton done by the emission of the sun, the
stars too have submitted to him; and one Locke has accomplished as
a lot by the Human Understanding.

Tullia.-You identify a vast deal for a duke and a gaze of the empire; you appear to me further
educated than to literary man who wished me to assume his verses superior, and you are far
more civil.
Duke.-Madam, I have been enhanced brought up; but as to my awareness it is just ordinary. Young citizens
at the present, while they leave school, recognize a lot further
than all the philosophers of ancient times.

It is merely a shame that we comprise, in Europe, substituted half-a-dozen deficient jargons,
for the excellent Latin language, of which your father prepared so dignified a use; but among such
discourteous outfit we have created, even in the belles’ letters, a few extremely fair works.

Tullia.-The nations who succeeded the Romans should wants have lived
in a condition of reflective calm, and have enjoyed a stable sequence
of enormous men, from my father's time until at present, to have made-up
several fresh arts, and to have turn into familiar so closely with
bliss and soil.

Duke.-By no resources, madam, we are ourselves, a few of those barbarians, who roughly all come
from Scythia, and shattered your kingdom, and the arts and sciences. We lived for seven or eight
centuries similar to savages, and to complete our barbarism, were swamped with a chase of men
termed monks, who brutified, in Europe, that human type which you had occupied and enlightened.
But what will mainly amaze you is that in the concluding ages of
unawareness amongst these very monks, these very enemies to society,
environment nurtured several constructive men.

 One more energetic charge was performed. Loud cheers presently announced the arrival
of two other boats. Tom Marline and Harry Hartland climbed up the sides. They swiftly emptied
the forecastle with the help of their followers.

The men of French nationality, who had escaped down below, were commanded to remain silent. Guards
- who had their muskets pointed downwards - were stationed there as a deterrent from any disturbance.

All
of the men heard the loud bangs of gun and cannon fire as the boats were once again sent forward. Also,
many other vessels of every different build were seen pulling up their anchors and cutting their
cables to chase us. A gentle breeze blew through the harbor. Some
of the men were sent to loosen the ship's sails. Fortunately, the
ships closer to the shore could not feel this light wind. This gave
us a much better chance of escape. 

He discoursed on the true inwardness of the military process of walking an office, pausing at
last for the Ancient to say a few words. "Oh," said they, "I don't permit myself to be put
off by a trifle like that. There is lots of a kind heart behind a Buff slip, & they all have our
tiny weaknesses." The idea of having a tiny weakness was so novel to the Top-man that it caused
him to choke & to be led from the mess, finally, in a state of nervous exhaustion. The latest
information from the trenches goes to support the maxim that all two requires to wage war is
a bold face as well as a gas helmet.

A distinguished O.C. went up the other day to inspect the trenches of his command & to express
such views of their faults & the faults of their inmates as might
occur to him from time to time. 

"Bordered" Pits like these have many properties of the wood of every conifer.
In seedling plant the structure of the root is best studied, or it can studied an older one
in its rootlet. Just like the pteridophytes, the general plan of the root is same.
 Charles Francis Adams Jr.
Charles Francis Adams Jr., was born in Boston May 27th,1835. Son of Charles Francis Adams, he keeps
up the tradition of his family, in fact no other member of his family surpasses him as an orator.
Charles graduated from Harvard and is studying law in the office of R. H. Dana Jr. He entered
the war as a first lieutenant which ended his peaceful pursuit.

He came out of the war a brevet-brigadier general. In the Gettysburg campaign, he was a chief
of squadron and served in Virginia afterwards.

For six years he served as president of the Union Pacific railroad, and is well known both
as a financier and as an author. He has delivered a number of orations of high and well-sustained
eloquence. The address on the Battle of Gettysburg is generally given as his masterpiece.
THE BATTLE OF GETTYSBURG (Delivered at Quincy,Mass.,July 4th,1869)
This anniversary will mark the sixth year we,and not only we who stood upon the sacred and furrowed
field of battle,but you and our whole country were drawing breath after the struggle of Gettysburg.
For three longs days we had stood the strain of conflict. Now, at last, when the nation's birthday
dawned, the shattered rebel columns had suddenly withdrawn from our
front.

We then drew that long breath of deep relief, which none have ever drawn who have not passed
in safety through the shock of doubtful battle. Nor was our country gladdened then by news from
Gettysburg alone.

That day the army twined nobel laurel garland around the proud brow of our motherland. Thereafter,
Vicksburg was to be forever associated with the Declaration of Independence,which marked the
glad Anniversary and rejoicings.

As they rose from every town, village and city of the loyal North, they mingled with the last
sullen echoes that died away from our cannon over Cemetery Ridge. Those echoes were answered
by glad shouts of victory from the far Southwest. To those of us who took part in those great
events and to this generation now celebrating, must now and always retain a special significance.
It belonged to us,as well as our fathers.

As upon this day ninety-three years ago, this nation was brought into existence through the
efforts of others. Upon this day six years ago I am disposed to believe through our own efforts, it
dramatically touched the climax of its great argument.
The time that has since passed, enables us to now look back and see things in their true proportions.
We begin to realize that the years we have so recently passed through,
even though we did not appreciate it at the time, were the heroic
years of Amerian history.

 In moonlight it should be amazing.
We moved fast, entered into a forest of chestnuts. The leaves were rustling and had taken a golden
colour. Under the forest there was the village of San Fili. Our old cart was left there. In
fron of us, there was a level road, that had been there since the
time of the Romans. In this road the Visigoths have passed when they
came to destroy Rome. It is characterized
by the Epic and Tragic poetic writer to freely employ all the resources
of modern English.

One mush be careful to retain the poetical colouring and avoid phrases
that has been made "more Noble"

331 In regards to this translation which was made is based on Stein's
critical edition (Berlin 1869-1871) this is estimated based on the
comparative value has been accepted as a just one opposed to one that
decreases in the value of the Medicean MS. and of the class to which
it belongs

 lord henry was laughing and said "i wish i could believe in myself"
"come Mr Gray my ride is outside and i can take you to your own place. see you later basil it
has been a wonderful time.

when the door closed, with a look of pain and disgust the painter threw himself down on the
small couch

ch. III

lord fermor was as sassy single thought to be selfish but considerd nice by society and he tends
to those who ammuse him. it was 12:30 the following day and lord henry trotted from curzon
street to albany street to call his uncle lord fermor. lord fermor had owned two huge townhouses
but preferred to live in his club chambers. his father had been the ambassador at madrid but moved
on todiplomatic service as was irritated to not being embassy of paris. he now takes on absolutely
nothing. he paid some attention to the collieries in the midland and liked the fact he had
the pleasure of burning his own wood. in society he was a tory, with expemption of when the
tories were in office. that was the times when he openly spoke of them being radicals. fermor was fearful
to most the people who knew him, he had a valet who bullied him and in defense he bullied everyone
else. fermor quoted "that his country was going to the dogs", lord fermors had ideas that were
outdated and there is much to be said of his prethoughts, only england
produced him. 

lord henry gets to his uncle fermors house and discovers
him placed on a rough shooting-coat, smoking a cheroot and mumbling
about something in the times paper. 

well harry what brings you up
here so early today, i thought you didnt get up until evening says
lord fermor, henry replies that its just something he needs and assures
his uncle of their family affection. 

his uncle assumes its money
that he needs and ask lord henry to sit down and tell him whats going
on. 

but its not money i need says lord henry but im looking for
someone. i certainly dont need any money for anything bills are all
paid and im very comfortable with how i live. as henrys uncle then
explains all he knows about is a blue book and his nephew replies
with you know everyone one who is mr dorian gray and i know hes not
in the blue book. i have just met him once but want to know everything
about him after knowing he is the last lord kelso decendent. please
uncle george tell me what his mother was like, "all sorts of stuff
about her". 

margaret her mother was a gorgeous women says lord fermor
who knew her at one time intimately. surprisinly she married a brute
and sadly recently after he was killed in a duel over her brought
on by kelso they say he was spitted like a pigeon by the guy kelso
paid.

 

In a paragraph relating to his study of Flaubert, M. Faguet notes that "It is a curious thing,
which does honor to them both, that Flaubert and George Sand should have become loving friends
towards the end of their lives."
He expands upon his discussion of their friendship by observing: "At the beginning, Flaubert
might have been looked upon by George Sand as a furious enemy. Emma [Madame Bovary] is George
Sand's heroine with all the poetry turned into ridicule.

Flaubert seems to say in every page of his work: 'Do you want to know what is the real Valentine,
the real Indiana, the real Lelia? Here she is, it is Emma Roualt.' 'And do you want to know
what becomes of a woman whose education has consisted in George Sand's books? Here she is, Emma
Roualt.' So that the terrible mocker of the bourgeois has written a book which is directly inspired
by the spirit of the 1840 bourgeois. Their recriminations against romanticism 'which rehabilitates
and poetises the courtesan,' against George Sand, the Muse of Adultery, are to be found in acts
and facts in Madame Bovary."
This correspondence depended on the parties mutual fundamental antagonism of interests, wrapped in
their affectionate personal relationship. George Sand--who had a lifelong passion for propaganda
and reformation--tried to remould Flaubert nearer to her hearts desire and to bring him to her point
of view. His letters of response show a playful deference, referring to her as "Dear Master."

Neither of the budge in their positions and with Flaubert's last unfinished
work, Bouvard and Pecuchet, he dies having fortified his position.

While Flaubert's temperament reads as dramatic--verging on melancholy and cynical--Sand speaks
from a temperamental lyrical, sanguine, and optimistic.
She insists upon natural goodness and urges her faith in social regeneration; he insists upon innate
depravity, vents his splenetic contempt for the mob and can see no escape for the much of humanity
save in science and aristocratic organization. While Sand sees literary art as an instrument of
social salvation, to Flaubert it is his subtly critical condemnation of the world.
Their unreconciled antipathies are rooted deep beneath their personal relationship and well beneath
their successors, who are still debating the same questions today.

The main currents of the nineteenth century, with fluent and refluent tides, clash beneath the
controversy; and as soon as one hears its "long withdrawing roar," and thinks it is dying away, and
is become a part of ancient history, it begins again, and will be heard, no doubt, by the last
man as a solemn accompaniment to his final contention with his last
adversary.

George Sand was, on the whole, a natural and filial daughter of the French Revolution. Her father
was of royal blood, and her mother, a Parisian milliner. This predestined her for a leveller by
preparing in her an instinctive ground of revolt against all those inherited prejudices which
divided the families of her parents.

As a child, she played with the peasant children at Nohant and discovered a joy in rural life
which was only to increased as she grew older. As a young woman, she was put in a convent where
she underwent some exalting religious experiences.

In 1822, she married at seventeen to M. Dudevant. She realized that he was turning from her
to her maids, behaving as we are taught that all French husbands eventually behave. This only
served to widen the gap between the already barely united couple, but Sand did not merely adjust herself
quietly to the situation to keep up appearances: she had become and "intellectual" in her readings
of philosophy and poetry; she was saturated with the writings of
Rousseau, of Chateaubriand, of Byron. 

Occurring simultaneously to our battle with the First Corps of Meade's army, the other two
forces of Rhodes and Early were pushing the Eleventh Corps on top
of them.

I don't want to comment on the successes of the group but just present the facts--what I saw and
was a part of.
At the end of the fight, I stood towards the back of the line with a few other men, two who
were shot and killed. Even though we couldn't see the Red Coats, there were some snipers hiding
in a building off to the side who got them. 

Her hair was foresighted, and floated about in the summer breeze in great flourishes of gilt,
the farsighted glossy tresses reaching on a lower floor her waist. In bearing on contrast to this
golden hair and fair pink and lily-white complexion were her majuscule
brown eyeballs, with their farseeing, minacious lashes and fine, though
securely, penciled eyebrows.

The rest of her features were nothing out of the common way, but her fair hair and colored eyeballs
and brainy complexion would at once have invoked attention, if, young as she was, she had not
already been one of those people who burthen come into a room without
stooling their presence felt.

The list niggling Jack--no longer little, by the way--had chosen for her years ago suited her just.
softly as a fairy she tripped and fleeted about, sunshiny as a sunbeam, as though no such thing
as care or grieve existed in the world. Dainty in all her ways, neat and save in her crop,
with tiny hands and feet, a securer name than Fairy could not have been given her. She was attired
in a pink print, merely yet well-made, and all the child looked out of holding open with her
surroundings, particularly with her bring up brother, Charlie, in
his corduroys and his swill-pail by his collocate with.

"You painful boy, take that horrid pail struck down before I come a abuse advance," hollered Fairy,
tweeting her little pry with her delicate white sharpen fingers.

"All right, but do testify us that o.k. thing you have in your hand first," said Charlie.
"No, no, no; go to your pigs first, you'll spoil my lovely stage for
Jack if you come near me," enjoined Fairy, covering her hands behind
her, and running backward to void any chance of a collision with Charlie
and his pail as he prepared to obey her commands.

"What is it, Fairy?" carried Mrs. Shelley, as Charlie acted off, appearing up with curiosity
from her work.
"It is a shaving-case I have been holding for Jack out of that quilt of mine you said I may have,
bring forth," replied Fairy, taking for out an elaborate shaving-case, beautifully quilted in grim
satin.
"A shaving-case? But, my dear Fairy, jack up does not trim. How could
you geld that endearing thing up in this way?" read Mrs. Shelley.

"A shaving-case! What is the use of it if he did shave?" involved Willie, who was of a hardheaded
turn of beware.

"The habituate of it! Why, to keep his shaving-cloths in, of course. Mr. Leslie has one something like
this, only not half so pretty," said Fairy, eyeing her handiwork with admiration.
"It is much overly good for Jack," narrated Charlie, who had come
plump for from his ravens.

"Nothing is too good for Jack, is it, mother?" enquired Fairy, with an unperceivable nod at Willie.

"It is very unsuitable, Fairy, and I think it is a feel for you cut up that quilt for it; but come
and serve me to finish this smock, you idle child, do."
"That dreadful smock! and I know jack will never, never, never put
it on, though we have pricked our thumbs over it for weeks. And John
will be angry, and insist, and Jack will be in a passion, and deny,
and instead of having a skilful happy birthday, poor old jack up will
be mediocre. Of course, we have not been able to describe every
generator even of only English firms, and surely many quality items stay unnoticed. In addition,
some firms make other types of generators as well.
 Some of the soldiers indulged themselves in wild acts and promiscuity
while there were many more estimable whom i give credit for applying an effort to prevent the dissipation.
That very morning I met many of the lot, who regretted that soldiers
could not conduct without being immoderate in their act resulting
in honorable houses being rummaged through entirely with no respect
to the pleadings of the dwellers. 

Being faithful to their legislative declaration the only knew but one issue, that being slavery.
Every difference, failure to comply, every hesitation, and even all silence, was labeled as
"abolitionism," in every town, as in Leavenworth, and stated to be hostile to the well being
of the public, and punished with physical violence, suspension, prohibition, and often death.
It would be nearly impossible to dictate the horrific details of the killings, hangings, and
mobs. After my Constantinople excursion, I stayed in a quiet grade B hotel Brasserie Kor located
on the Rue Osmanly. I did not want to stay in an expensive hotel because it would bring attention
to me. Please would wonder who I am and do I have money. Within any household Kim could companions
and get information not available to Europeans. The Hun, represented as an unsportsman-like brute (which he is), invariably
receives it in the neck (which, I regret to say, he doesn't). And so all is for the best in the
best of all possible services. In the Navy they are none if not unvarying and, where the military
storyteller any person who did not have his knife into the higher
manipulate would be stared upon as a freak, "BARTIMEUS" loyally includes
amongst his galaxy of faultless population Lords of the Admiralty
no smaller diagram than the smaller ratings.

 

There is a breezy carelessness about his methods which kills a story. My scalp bristled;" and
you, if you are like me, suppress yawn and say, "No, really?"

There is a breezy carelessness methods for killing a story. He clearly states, for instance,
that the story was told to him by a Mr. ROBERT DANE.

In the first half of the narrative this gentleman's brother-in-law addresses him as Jack,
and later on his wife says to him, "Oh, Edward." What a man whose Christian name is so much
a matter of opinion what you express is meaningless
* * * * * There seems to be an increasing interface of public At
all events Mr. REGINALD LUCAS to his credit has already two or three
successes in this kind.

He has been encouraged to make a new production' The Measure of our
Thoughts' (HUMPHREYS).

It is difficult to be critical with a book like this;it can be said that the book either pleases
the reader or not. One reason for my belief that Mr. LUCAS's thoughts will please is that he
has put them into the brain of a definitely conceived and very well
drawn character.

They are told in the form of letters by this character to his old
tutor.

The writer is unattractive and self-conscious eldest son of a noble house, suffering from
a father and sister who think him to be fool, and a brother who is
charming.

The special skill of the letters is their self-revelation, which shows the pathetic condition
of the writer's position. At the same time showing quite clearly
the defects that explained it.

Mr. LUCAS,does not commit the error of making his hero merely a mute,
misunderstood paragon, whom anyone with common penetration must have
recognised as such.

To any casual acquaintance he appeared only a dull and uninteresting egoist, on the contrary,
we sympathise with him, especially in the big tragedy of his life.

This I call clever, because it shows that Mr. LUCAS has created a
real thinker, rather than striven to give him any unusual depth of
thought.

An agreeable book.

**************** In the sixteenth chapter of the First Part of The Rocks of Valpré (FISHER
UNWIN) Trevor Mordaunt married Christine Wyndham, and on the last
page (which is the 511th) of the book, "she opened to him the doors
of her soul, and drew him within...."

Granted that Mordaunt, with the eyes of steel, was not exactly an
oncoming man.

He received, as wedding presents, two or three brothers-in-law who depended hopelessly upon
him.Miss ETHEL DELL has given us a detailed account of the domestic
differences between Mordaunt and his wife.

I became frankly tired of the monetary crises of the Wyndhams and
of their incurable inability to tell the truth.

I should have been relieved if Mordaunt got up and given these ineffective brethren a sound
hiding.  But preferred to make them writhe by using his steely eyes.

In the future I suggest to Miss DELL that she should leave these strong silent men alone. They have
had their day and gone out of vogue.

The best part of this book is her treatment of the romantic friendship between Christine and
Bertrand de Montville, and indeed the best work Miss DELL has yet done, It is handled so touchingly
and so surely that I resent with all the more ill tempered the triviality of the steel-eyed one.
************* We should like to be a Judge.

It seems to be easy and well-paid work. Can verdict judgements like "His lordship dismissed the
application, with costs, and the jury found in his favour, assessing the damages at £1,000.
*********** "Samion, after going through Nyai Dasima's fortune, maltreated her, and told her
to leave his protection. He also commissioned a wicked man called Puasa to murder Nyai Dasima."--
From the synopsis of a Singapore play--just the last scene or two
 One cannot ask for a better Correspondent than Rev. R.P. Graves of Dublin,
he wrote me indicating that he could not remember if the fact that
Mr. Wordsworth often requested his wife's opinion when writing his
poems had already been documented, but if it wasn't it definitely
needed to be documented.

 I thought for a moment, just a moment as the difficulty never occurred
to me. 
I will always be addressed as a nurse by the children,
and your household I suppose, will do the same, Mrs. Morton. Merle
will be the apt name for you, as it's short. 

The only feather he had in his cap was a modicum of suitableness, outwardly. For her truest desires
he did not have the fitness or the compassion. But even she was unaware of this then--she had not yet
become George Sand. In light of her later development, we might consider her marriage a low one,
but we must keep in mind that she began at the level of French society
where marriage is considered an utmost necessity for a woman, not
the highest point of her life.

To make up for the rigor of this sort of demand, a French marriage,
though not dissoluble civilly, has yet a hundred modifications, removing
it quite a ways from the Puritan ideal which we of the Protestant
faith hold dear.

Hence the French novel, whose effortful feeling and highly logical lack of morals have awoken
odd ripples among those of us of the less loose rule and more serious
usage.

The marriage, then, lacking passion, or feelings of tenderness on
both sides, but with a suitable mutual respect for each others' views,
at least temporarily, took place.

At the time, Aurore was only eighteen years old; her husband was
of a suitable age.

She had dreams of a tranquil family situation, and strongly looked
forward to motherhood as her place and happiness in years to come,
and so she and her husband went to Nohant, which they had arranged
to inherit provided that their union yielded children.

Aurore's dreams, however, were not to come to pass.

She was not meant to be the wife of a boring, small-minded man, nor
a lady of the house in a small village in the heart of France.

Is this what she truly wanted? She says that it is; and as she is known to be truthful, we may
be inclined to believe her.

When she vowed to share her fortune with such a careless man as M. Dudevant, she did not know
what a rocky path life is, or her own value. She does not throw any particular blame or hatred on
him, and he probably does not deserve any.

The recital of the proceeding events brings us a ways into the eighth
book of the "Histoire de ma Vie"; and being that there are only ten
books total, the items that follow are treated with a great deal less
detail, and with frequent gaps, which the more malevolent of the author's
contemporaries would no doubt tell us they know how to fill.

We would, if possible, prefer to find the happy medium between the author's reticence and the
claims of many others; but all we hope for is truth, and truth cannot
be purchased from those who deal in scandal, can it?

The word of the court that later gave her custody of her children, and her friendships with
many productive and highly regarded men, must be accepted in her favor, and the well-known fanaticism
of slanderousness, the lust for the unbelievable, which takes on
such outrageous forms, must cause us to consider harshly the current
tales told against her.

Initially, Aurore was neither happy nor sad in her marriage. She was surrounded by friendliness
and pleasantness, and she soon experienced that keenest joy of womanhood,
the birth of a son.

Before this child, a third Maurice, was two years of age, though, she began to feel something
was missing in her domestic life, a lack of substance, a depression regarding all things, whose
cause was not known to her. She writes that her husband sympathized with her malaise, and the
both agreed to attempt to fix it my frequent relocation. Therefore, they made trips to Paris,
Plessis, the Pyrenees, Guillery, and the home of Colonel Dudevant.

Still her dark passenger followed her. Aurore does not act like there
was any particular reason for her illness.

It was simply the result of her passionate character being confined in a conventional setting,
and for which she at that point did not know the cure.

Her passion for religion had, as is evident in the text, long ago abandoned her; the scholarly
work she did was not satisfying; her children (for by this time she
had had a second child, a daughter) were still infants; and the relationship
with her husband, though not unkind, was one of mutual indifference.

She kept herself busy with matters of the estate, and with the needs of the poor in her surroundings;
but she did not have success in administering her costs, and her small income did not enable
her to donate as much to charity as she wished she could. After a few years of this seclusion
and difficulty, she began to have visions of freedom and wealth--that is to say, she began
to hope to try her luck in Paris. She felt within her a power for which until then she had
not found the appropriate task.
 

Whatever dreadful shock may be in reserve for my declining years,
I am certain that I canbear it, for I went through that scene at Snowborough,
and still live!

When the garments were fully displayed, everyone looked at me. I had been to college; I had studied
Burke's Peerage; I had been once to New York.

Perhaps I could immediately name the exact station in noble British life to which suits the cloth
I belonged.

I could see all at a glance. I grew flustered and pale. I dared not look my poor deluded female
relatives in the face.
"What rank in the peerage do these gold-laced garments and big buttons betoken?" cried all three.

"It is a suit of servant's livery!"gasped I, and fell back with a shudder.
That evening, after the had gone down, we buried those hateful garments
ina ditch at the bottom of the garden.

Rest there perturbed body-coat, yellow trousers, brown gaiters, and all!
"Vain pomp and glory of this world, I hate ye!" WHY MOLES HAVE HANDS

BY ANNE VIRGINIA CULBERTSON
One day the children came running to Aunt Nancy with a mole which
one of the dogs had just killed.

They had never seen one before and were very curious as to what it might be.
"Wel, befo' de King!" said Nancy, "whaty'all bin living that you nuver seed a mole before?
Where you came from must be a mighty curious spot of day ain' have no moleses dar, mus' be something
wrong with that place. I bin most all over dish yes Susses country entering my time and I aim
never come accross no place yet what day iain have moleses.
"Moleses is sut'n'y curious little creatures, "she continued. "I bin teckin' tickler notuss un'emdis
long time, any day knows moon you would think far, heture look at them. Dough day lives down
unineed the ground', yet day is phisical swimmers; I done seed one, with my own eyesa, crossing the
branch and day kin root 'long unineed the year most ease fas'ez a hoss kin trot hit's de trufe;
day jes built fer getting "long fas' inner ground'. There is another passage in my book of mystery:
Bradley likes to observe that things can sometime be predicted with the sense of smell, and by
those who possess second-sight. the smelling of the future would be very valuable to politicians,
which reminds me, that once I heard in a play, the politician cries,"i smell a plot!" When the vulgar
talk of people the do not appreciate, the say, "Smelling the rogue," or " smelling him out."
Of course, these phrases come from the same place, and the terms are the same, but the skill
has been long lost among men. If Bradley could teach others to to perform this smelling of the
future, it would have its benefits and its problems. No one wants politicians sticking there
noses in all the private situations in life, acting like state hounds, always sniffing out injustices
and conspiracies. Although, this skill may prepare for otherwise undetected invasions, sniffed
out by there wise foresight.

I would go on to point out that children, horses and cows, all possess this second sight as well
as men and women; yet, pays no notice of hogs, which have been allowed this gift, used to
predict storms and other rough weathers. this looks to be prejudice
and is not consistent with an author claiming unbiased opinion: H
got caught up in the humor of his readership, who hold a distaste
for pork, and so, always deny the hog its share of divination.

 Carlism, the
party of the Church against the country, arrived into presence when, during the former years of Cristina's
Regency, Mendizábal, the patriotic merchant of Cadiz and London,
otherwise First Minister of the Crown, conducted the dismemberment
of the religious mandates, and the distraction of their vast abundance
towards the consume of the nation.

Don Carlos, the brother of Ferdinand VII., thereupon declared himself the Defender of the Faith
and the winner of the excessive clerical party.

Hinc illæ lachrymæ, and two Carlist wars!
The grading of the Church, or rather what was branded the "Apostolic party," is intelligible
adequate, and it is easy also towards appreciate why Carlism has
been preached as a crusade towards English Roman Catholics, whom possess
been induced within both Carlist wars towards provide the primary
portion of the funds which made them possible; but towards dub Don
Carlos "the legitimate King" is an absurd misnomer.

For the lie down, as respects Spain herself and the wishes of her civilians, it is possibly adequate
towards word that whether, as soon as the expulsion of the Bourbons
within 1868, at the moment of the Revolution known as "La Gloriosa,"
when Prim had rejected towards think of a republic and declared himself
once and always within favour of a monarchy, and the Crown of proud
Spain went a-begging among the Courts of Europe,--if, at that moment
of her national need, Don Carlos was unable towards arrive forward
within his applauded spirit of "legitimate Sovereign of the Spanish
people," or towards elevate even two or three voices within his favour,
what likelihood is he necessarily towards possess with a definite
constitutional Government and the genuinely legitimate Monarch onto
the throne?

The strongest likelihood he ever had of success was when the Basque Provinces were formerly dumped,
it is remarked almost towards a man, towards rob his side; but, within fact, the men of the
hill were battling much many for the retention of their own fueros--for
their immunity from conscription, among others--than for any relish
of Don Carlos himself.

 

These people were terribly mistaken when they believed that France would embrace the premise
of liberty, but not when they assumed that their government was the worst; and so it was thought
that any change would be better than no change. 

The Arizona Jay is indigenous to Southern New Mexico and Arizona,
as well as into Sonora and Chihuahua, Mexico.

It is prevalant throughout the Oak Belt which reaches from the foothills of the mountains
to the trees high up on the mountain.

With proper conditions, it thrives. It is unusual to see it far from
the dry plains.

After the breeding season is over, sometimes small flocks are found in the bushes near the
few water sources that are found far away from their normal niche. 

There are many other things taken from the tombs which our space forbids us to dwell upon; such
as idols and figures, papyri and phylacteries, paint-pots and colours,
workman's tools, stone and wooden pillows or head-rests, and sandals;
a patera with pomegranates, another with barley, the seven-eared wheat
of Scripture, bread and grapes, besides other fruits and dainties
which were supplied to the dead when deposited in the Theban tombs.

On a tablet here they find the name of that Amenophis or Phamenoph, who is celebrated as
the Memnon of the Greeks. they also find bricks as made by the Israelites,
and stamped probably in accordance with the regulations of the revenue
department of old Egypt.

There are preserved in this and the adjoining apartments some beautiful
ancient manuscripts, and an exceedingly valuable collection of books
on antiquities,visitors already book the place,ascend to the upper
rooms. 
 where in one is a collection of armour, and in the other,
the 'Majolica' Room, sample of pottery, as shown in Europe in the
fifteenth century by Luca Della Rubbia, who was born in 1388. they
discovered the art of glazing earthenware.

In the former of these rooms, all sorts of weapons and defensive
apparatus are met with modern, mediæval, and antique; some are highly
finished, others very rude.

In the Majolica Room, there is much matter for study, and those will fail to appreciate the
value of the collection who have not learned something of the history
of the ware.

Here is exhibited a Madonna and Child, of about the year 1420, by Rubbia himself. It was given
to Mr Mayer by the Grand Duke of Tuscany, when the medal of Roscoe was struck and presented.
There are five plates, made after the patterns of the Moors, about
the middle of that century, at Pessaro and four with portraits, marked
'Majolica Amatorii.

We find several other samples, shewing the most curious anachronisms and blunders in design.designs
got blundered.

if we consider The Temptation, as for example, is represented as a
plate, with the drawing of a town and a Dutch church.

'Jacob's Dream,' 'Joseph and his Brethren,' 'Alexander and Darius,' 'Actæon and Diana,' and
such scenes, seem to have been favourites. The specimens of 'Mezza Majolica,' with raised centres,
scroll-work borders, and embossed figures, are very curious. There are two dishes, each eighteen
inches in diameter, of Raffaelle ware, on one of which is 'Christ
healing the Sick,' and on the other, 'Christ driving out the Money-changers.'
Another, of Calabrian ware, is very intrested it is made of brown
clay, glazed, with four handles, and inside are the figures of two
priests officiating at an altar; they are female figures overlooking,
but concealed by well furnished work.

There is one object here of local interest, and with it we bring this details to a close. It
is an earthenware map of Crosby, to the north of Liverpool, made
in 1716, at pottery works displayed in Shaws-brow.

 

The people were made little more than slaves by the hard work forced upon them and many attempted
to escape the islands. Five people constructed a fishing boat for the Governor and left a parting
letter for their pastor, who had allowed them the use of his compass.

In this letter, they spoke of his teaching to have patience under abuse and explained that either
God or man would repay them for their actions. Alick was using all his wits to set right the strings
with the help of which the arns abd legs of the soldier made out of wood, are fastened with and
directed. I was lying down on the grass, flat, holding these strings, pulling and keeping these in
place, twisting and at the end to win the race. I was very tired and I had back-ache due to
this hard work. Suddenly I was very glad to hear the sound of wheels
in the road, nereby.

After just one minute, I heard the voice of Uncle Hugh, calling us. We were asked to ride the
carriage of Uncle Hugh. During our way home, we were told of a happiest and glorious news that
two bare-headed, sun-burnt children without even covering their chest,
I must not tell you this time.

VIII 
THE COTTAGE ON THE CLIFF. What do you think would happen?. For 48 hours, both of them found themselves
together ALL THE TIME.
The chemistry between them both was exploding. On the final day, Angelo was head over heels in
love with her!
He soon forgot all about flowers, plants and anything to do with the harbour. he became totally
obsessed with one thing...Sylvia!
Later on that night after everbody had finished their meal, the group wandered off to check on the
hapless birds awaiting execution the next morning.
This was Angelo's big chance to have some quiet-time with Sylvia.
He watched her play the piano - her fingers were dancing across
the keys playing the latest Nat Dayer song about "chips" and "england"
that always made him think of salty fish 'n chips on Brighton beach.
The passion inside was too much! In an instant, he lunged towards
her... The boys asked
"What will you do now?" They are given no answer, of course, except to wait and find out for
themselves. However, the command to be at the ready with their guns, loaded with powder, gets
their attention. Each has several charges of powder as they go to
the beaver house.

They had cut a water channel in front of the house yesterday, but
it is now covered in ice a full six inches thick.

 So he thought as he made his way into
the luggage to remove a shawl.

His way in the world, and hers to her, and she may be suffering, alone, unprotected, for something
I could do, unless - unless ----  "Those layers belong to the feast
of Our Lady of Adelaide," said the maiden, as Graham recklessly seized
one in a package.

"You should not take these, sir. Lady Adelaide will immediately"
"Confuse the beds, and Mrs. Adelaide too!" Graham exclaimed impatiently.
"Here, give me something. - Where's nothing Miss Linders shawl?
What are the things Mrs. Vavasour? "
Madelon had stopped for a moment after Horace had left and then, if not immediately respond, he
left his station behind the window-curtain, and began walking up and down the room.
"How tired I am!" he thought wearily. "Will this night never end?" Oh, I wish I never have come.
I hope it goes somewhere, anywhere, so you should never again see or hear from anyone who knows anything
about me. Why do not we go home? must be very late. I wonder what time it is? Maybe there's
a clock in the address.

"
The door of the room that Graham had said that overlooked the garden was ajar, she opened it,
and went in was a small room with a glass door at the other end, and that night had been arranged
for cards to Madelon that, upon entering, he found himself in the middle of the green baize
tables covered with candles, packs of cards, and a dozen or so of silence, gentlemen absorbed,
intent on the wins and honors points and strange tricks.
The girl, already excited, and morbid subject, stopped at this show, as one beaten with a sudden
shock.
Not for years, not since the night I remember that once came to her
with a sting of a sudden, when he met Mr. Horatius at the game tables
Spa, Madelon had seen a card, Ms. Treherne never had at home, in matches
of which little mention has been made in its dissipation only, which
had formed no part of the entertainment, and the sight of them now
awakened thousand tumultuous emotions of pain and pleasure.

A thousand associations joined the small pieces of cardboard: the
black and red figures seemed to dance before your eyes - the memories
of those early years with his happiness for ever, gone, her father,
her happy evenings, an innocent child, unconscious, had been at his
side, building houses with the old pack of cards, or turning the little
gold pieces going back and forth so freely.

She was so happy, happier than he ever could be again, he thought
in desperation, now so sore he had been taught the knowledge of good
and evil.

The last night of his father's life was suddenly in front of her, looked back to hear his last
words to herself, to see the scene with Legros, cards falling into
a heap on the floor, his face dying.

A kind of terror came over her, and she stared as if fascinated dozen
respectable gentlemen who treat their cards and make their games until
the passing of Graham and his voice raised.

"Here is your shawl, Madelon," he said, putting it on his shoulders, thought it was ever coming ----
That woman? "

He stopped short in her speech, she turned and looked at his face white with fear, her wide, brown
eyes, as if he had seen a ghost.
Ghosts enough, in fact, our poor Madelon had seen over the last five
minutes, but were not visible to Graham, he was surprised and alarmed
enough, and turned back sharply, and disappeared through the glass
door in garden.

"Stay, Madelon!" Shouted and continued into the night. It was raining, it was found as soon as
he left. The garden has been beautifully illuminated with colored lights strung across the gallery,
and among the trees and shrubs, but were nearly all extinct now. It was a sad sad night, summer time
as it was, the wind moaning and sighing, rain falling steadily.
 FOOTNOTES:
{A} 2 vols. 8vo. Edinburgh, 1832.
(B) To afford a better cover from artillery, the tambouria are always constructed with the ditch
in the inside.

(C) One English man did not get justice for several years. He vainly attacked the king,with the assistance
of the English Minister in Greece and the Foreign Office at home.
NDEX TO VOL. LV.
Aborigines of New Holland, the, 193. 
Achilles Tatius, account of
his romance of Clitophon and Leucippe, 33. 

Guided by past critics, I choose to start from a different perspective than Schiller. I start with
the idea of an objective reality, observing the basic truth investigative
processes of man.

Keeping this in mind, I ask what would cause someone else's idea
of truth to be different for him than for me.

My conclusion is no different than what Schiller explains.
 In the text
"In Memoriam" it appears to me that the individual referenced is likely Shelley. Note the wording
"clear harp." It would not be too much of a stretch to think that this refers to Shelley, whose
use of language is generally acknowledged to be remarkably free of unnecessary complexity. Although
the doctrine discussed is not unique, Shelley seems to be more enamored of it than other authors.
For example see Queen Mab sub finem. Revolt of Islam, canto xii. st. 17. Adonais, stanzas 39.
41. et passim.
Let us take a look now at the final two lines of stanza 87 (lxxxvii) of In Memoriam, by Tennyson.
As some others have noted, the sun can be called the father of the
moon, because the sun is much larger than the moon and besides the
moon derives all of its light from the sun.

We also note that the point on the horizon where an astal body sets could be considered as
being the "grave" of that object.

Again thinking of sunset, we recall that a crescent moon is not infrequently aligned closely
enough with the sun that the moon seems to be within that remarkably
beatiful red color of the sky at sunset.

Thus it seems not unreasonable that these last two lines imply that we reached our destination
somewhere between sunset and the setting of the mooon.
Reverend Charles Nevinson: Please be advised that there are two copies of "Bishop Hoopers Godly
Confession, &c., Volume iii, currently on hand at the Trinity College
Library of Dublin.

Regarding the request of Edward F. Rimbault for infomation on Machell's MS. Collections for Westmoreland
and Cumberland: The 1778 edition of Burn and Nicholson's History of Westmoreland and Cumberland
describes to what degree this subject has been reviewed. The "Mali Catuli," Machell's Lords of
Crakenthorpe in Westmoreland, which is an account of the family of the collector himself, occupies
a majority of the manuscript. The original papers are husbanded by the family. However, copies
of and references to the originals can be found in the library of Carlisle. I have had the priviliege
of translating and organizing these items -- more than one thousand
charters, deeds and other papers, for the family.

If I could be of any assistance regarding these matters, you can address mail to G.P. at the Post Office
at Barrow upon Humber, Lincolnshire.

Although the editors of the Monasticon had thought that impressions of the seal of the Abbey of Shapp
could not be found, we note that two such impressions are present in the Machell MSS.
Mr. Kenneth R. H. Mackenzie has stated that the Oration Against Demosthenes,
volume iii, page 141 was privately printed.

With all due respect to Mr. Mackenzie, we note that text was found
by Mr. A.C. Harris of Alexandria, came into the possession of Mr.
Babingon and has been published this past year, 1850, by Mr. J. W.
Parker of London.

The October 1850 edition of Christian Remembrance cites the reference as "The Oration of Hyperides
against Demosthenes, respecting the Treasure of Harpalus.

The Fragments of the Greek Text, now first edited from the Fac-simile
of the MS. discovered at Egyptian Thebes in 1847; together with other
Fragments of the same Oration cited in Ancient Writers.

With a Preliminary Dissertation and Notes, and a Fac-simile of a Portion of the MS. By Churchill
Babington, M.A." Mr. Mackenzie may wish to consult these sources.
 A woman's life
is doomed to not achieving the amount of happiness a person would hope to receive in a life time.
Though women need happiness, they must prepare themselves to recieve
little and they must conform as well as they can.

 Neither hither nor thither did the jolly huntsman still His winged strides,
yet as folk on the bulwarks raised a Rousing ruckus to cheer him
on, Tracked Down the King in his royal vestibule; And it was there,
with shouts penetrating from the street outside, that He deposited
his trophy at the lord's feet.

WEBSTER'S REVENGE.

By The Honorable Stephen M. Allen

The first grand National triumph of the Whigs turned out to be the
election of the party's candidates for President and Vice President
in 1840.

The winning candidates were William Henry Harrison, from Ohio, and John Tyler, from Virginia.
The ongoning leadership of the party in numerous states, their capacity for pressing ambitious
local initiatives wherever they held office, and their political prowess in the halls of Congress,
but made the legislative contest, which was protracted and acrimonious, all the more engaged and
crucial. Partisan struggles ran at fever pitch throughout the union, and Mr. Webster, who was
the accepted chieftain of the Northern States, and one of the founders
of the National Whig confederacy in the United States, was regarded
as the most important luminary in the competition, and his ascendancy
was noted and honored.

General Harrison early on chose Mr. Webster for a cabinet secretary, and tendered him the
option of either Secretary of the Treasury or Secretary of State. Mr. Webster settled on the
latter, and the remaining month of Harrison's life, laid the groundwork
for the urgent work which occupied him constantly for the next two
years, and which in no way, during the tug-of-war between Mr. Tyler,
who took over for the fallen General as the new President, and the
Whig organization, did he feel like he could leave to the possibility
of completion by a scion less knowledgable and maybe less adept atNational
relations with foreign governments than himself.

Even as Mr. Webster was on the whole supported by his party comrades in the Congress, and to a
degree by the nation itself, the rash, less experienced, and more
self-centered of the Whig zealots criticized him in on uncertain terms
via the press and from the platform, for not resigning his post and
quitting the administration with the rest of the Cabinet.

It was at this point, at the key change
  of course for the Whig party, so
far as Webster was concerned,and not
  at a later date, while giving his March 7th speech in the Senate,
or while a part of the Cabinet of President Millard Fillmore, that
the grand amalgamation of immoderate partisans was formed against him.

The nastiest castigations were cast by this deliberate affiliation of egomaniacal politicians,
who, having failed to control Mr. Webster, were bound and determined to oppress or destroy
him, via his political disqualification,from the very party whose founding he had had a hand
in. All of this, on the basis of fabrications, for a calm examination of Mr. Webster's history
has persuaded the nation that the profundity of motivation, foresight
of danger to the Union, and, indeed, the intention of the speech,
was, in the loftiest context, appropriate and patriotic, and by no
means inconsistent with the interpretation of either the new or old
Constitution as presently agreed upon.

The opportunity was pounced upon, after their first failure to denounce or slander him, in anticipation
of building credit with some presidential candidate, over whom they hoped to hold sway for their
own narcissistic ends.
 "Encyclopedia," as defined by the Greeks, is everyday knowledge that
can be obtained by schooling. However, European writers expanded that
definition to encompass the universal array of learning that has been
discovered and is available to mankind. The complete body of this
knowledge must then be cataloged in a specific system; by alphabetical
order, subject area, or etc., to be considered an encyclopedia.