Book One

Introduction

Special Introduction By Hon. John T. Morgan

In the eleven years that separated the Declaration of the Independence of the United States
from the completion of that act in the ordination of our written Constitution, the great minds
of America were bent upon the study of the principles of government that were essential to
the preservation of the liberties which had been won at great cost and with heroic labors and
sacrifices. Their studies were conducted in view of the imperfections that experience had developed
in the government of the Confederation, and they were, therefore, practical and thorough.

When the Constitution was thus perfected and established, a new form of government was created,
but it was neither speculative nor experimental as to the principles on which it was based.
If they were true principles, as they were, the government founded upon them was destined to
a life and an influence that would continue while the liberties it was intended to preserve
should be valued by the human family. Those liberties had been wrung from reluctant monarchs
in many contests, in many countries, and were grouped into creeds and established in ordinances
sealed with blood, in many great struggles of the people. They were not new to the people.
They were consecrated theories, but no government had been previously established for the great
purpose of their preservation and enforcement. That which was experimental in our plan of government
was the question whether democratic rule could be so organized and conducted that it would
not degenerate into license and result in the tyranny of absolutism, without saving to the
people the power so often found necessary of repressing or destroying their enemy, when he
was found in the person of a single despot.

When, in 1831, Alexis de Tocqueville came to study Democracy in America, the trial of nearly
a half-century of the working of our system had been made, and it had been proved, by many
crucial tests, to be a government of "liberty regulated by law," with such results in the development
of strength, in population, wealth, and military and commercial power, as no age had ever witnessed.

[See Alexis De Tocqueville]

De Tocqueville had a special inquiry to prosecute, in his visit to America, in which his generous
and faithful soul and the powers of his great intellect were engaged in the patriotic effort
to secure to the people of France the blessings that Democracy in America had ordained and
established throughout nearly the entire Western Hemisphere. He had read the story of the French
Revolution, much of which had been recently written in the blood of men and women of great
distinction who were his progenitors; and had witnessed the agitations and terrors of the Restoration
and of the Second Republic, fruitful in crime and sacrifice, and barren of any good to mankind.

He had just witnessed the spread of republican government through all the vast continental
possessions of Spain in America, and the loss of her great colonies. He had seen that these
revolutions were accomplished almost without the shedding of blood, and he was filled with
anxiety to learn the causes that had placed republican government, in France, in such contrast
with Democracy in America.

De Tocqueville was scarcely thirty years old when he began his studies of Democracy in America.
It was a bold effort for one who had no special training in government, or in the study of
political economy, but he had the example of Lafayette in establishing the military foundation
of these liberties, and of Washington, Jefferson, Madison, and Hamilton, all of whom were young
men, in building upon the Independence of the United States that wisest and best plan of general
government that was ever devised for a free people.

He found that the American people, through their chosen representatives who were instructed
by their wisdom and experience and were supported by their virtues--cultivated, purified and
ennobled by self-reliance and the love of God--had matured, in the excellent wisdom of their
counsels, a new plan of government, which embraced every security for their liberties and equal
rights and privileges to all in the pursuit of happiness. He came as an honest and impartial
student and his great commentary, like those of Paul, was written for the benefit of all nations
and people and in vindication of truths that will stand for their deliverance from monarchical
rule, while time shall last.

A French aristocrat of the purest strain of blood and of the most honorable lineage, whose
family influence was coveted by crowned heads; who had no quarrel with the rulers of the nation,
and was secure against want by his inherited estates; was moved by the agitations that compelled
France to attempt to grasp suddenly the liberties and happiness we had gained in our revolution
and, by his devout love of France, to search out and subject to the test of reason the basic
principles of free government that had been embodied in our Constitution. This was the mission
of De Tocqueville, and no mission was ever more honorably or justly conducted, or concluded
with greater eclat, or better results for the welfare of mankind.

His researches were logical and exhaustive. They included every phase of every question that
then seemed to be apposite to the great inquiry he was making.

The judgment of all who have studied his commentaries seems to have been unanimous, that his
talents and learning were fully equal to his task. He began with the physical geography of
this country, and examined the characteristics of the people, of all races and conditions,
their social and religious sentiments, their education and tastes; their industries, their
commerce, their local governments, their passions and prejudices, and their ethics and literature;
leaving nothing unnoticed that might afford an argument to prove that our plan and form of
government was or was not adapted especially to a peculiar people, or that it would be impracticable
in any different country, or among any different people.

The pride and comfort that the American people enjoy in the great commentaries of De Tocqueville
are far removed from the selfish adulation that comes from a great and singular success. It
is the consciousness of victory over a false theory of government which has afflicted mankind
for many ages, that gives joy to the true American, as it did to De Tocqueville in his great
triumph.

When De Tocqueville wrote, we had lived less than fifty years under our Constitution. In that
time no great national commotion had occurred that tested its strength, or its power of resistance
to internal strife, such as had converted his beloved France into fields of slaughter torn
by tempests of wrath.

He had a strong conviction that no government could be ordained that could resist these internal
forces, when, they are directed to its destruction by bad men, or unreasoning mobs, and many
then believed, as some yet believe, that our government is unequal to such pressure, when the
assault is thoroughly desperate.

Had De Tocqueville lived to examine the history of the United States from 1860 to 1870, his
misgivings as to this power of self-preservation would, probably, have been cleared off. He
would have seen that, at the end of the most destructive civil war that ever occurred, when
animosities of the bitterest sort had banished all good feeling from the hearts of our people,
the States of the American Union, still in complete organization and equipped with all their
official entourage, aligned themselves in their places and took up the powers and duties of
local government in perfect order and without embarrassment. This would have dispelled his
apprehensions, if he had any, about the power of the United States to withstand the severest
shocks of civil war. Could he have traced the further course of events until they open the
portals of the twentieth century, he would have cast away his fears of our ability to restore
peace, order, and prosperity, in the face of any difficulties, and would have rejoiced to find
in the Constitution of the United States the remedy that is provided for the healing of the nation.

De Tocqueville examined, with the care that is worthy the importance of the subject, the nature
and value of the system of "local self-government," as we style this most important feature
of our plan, and (as has often happened) when this or any subject has become a matter of anxious
concern, his treatment of the questions is found to have been masterly and his preconceptions
almost prophetic.

We are frequently indebted to him for able expositions and true doctrines relating to subjects
that have slumbered in the minds of the people until they were suddenly forced on our attention
by unexpected events.

In his introductory chapter, M. De Tocqueville says: "Amongst the novel objects that attracted
my attention during my stay in the United States, nothing struck me more forcibly than the
general equality of conditions." He referred, doubtless, to social and political conditions
among the people of the white race, who are described as "We, the people," in the opening sentence
of the Constitution. The last three amendments of the Constitution have so changed this, that
those who were then negro slaves are clothed with the rights of citizenship, including the
right of suffrage. This was a political party movement, intended to be radical and revolutionary,
but it will, ultimately, react because it has not the sanction of public opinion.

If M. De Tocqueville could now search for a law that would negative this provision in its effect
upon social equality, he would fail to find it. But he would find it in the unwritten law of
the natural aversion of the races. He would find it in public opinion, which is the vital force
in every law in a free government. This is a subject that our Constitution failed to regulate,
because it was not contemplated by its authors. It is a question that will settle itself, without
serious difficulty. The equality in the suffrage, thus guaranteed to the negro race, alone--for
it was not intended to include other colored races--creates a new phase of political conditions
that M. De Tocqueville could not foresee. Yet, in his commendation of the local town and county
governments, he applauds and sustains that elementary feature of our political organization
which, in the end, will render harmless this wide departure from the original plan and purpose
of American Democracy. "Local Self-Government," independent of general control, except for
general purposes, is the root and origin of all free republican government, and is the antagonist
of all great political combinations that threaten the rights of minorities. It is the public
opinion formed in the independent expressions of towns and other small civil districts that
is the real conservatism of free government. It is equally the enemy of that dangerous evil,
the corruption of the ballot-box, from which it is now apprehended that one of our greatest
troubles is to arise.

The voter is selected, under our laws, because he has certain physical qualifications--age
and sex. His disqualifications, when any are imposed, relate to his education or property,
and to the fact that he has not been convicted of crime. Of all men he should be most directly
amenable to public opinion.

The test of moral character and devotion to the duties of good citizenship are ignored in the
laws, because the courts can seldom deal with such questions in a uniform and satisfactory
way, under rules that apply alike to all. Thus the voter, selected by law to represent himself
and four other non-voting citizens, is often a person who is unfit for any public duty or trust.
In a town government, having a small area of jurisdiction, where the voice of the majority
of qualified voters is conclusive, the fitness of the person who is to exercise that high representative
privilege can be determined by his neighbors and acquaintances, and, in the great majority
of cases, it will be decided honestly and for the good of the country. In such meetings, there
is always a spirit of loyalty to the State, because that is loyalty to the people, and a reverence
for God that gives weight to the duties and responsibilities of citizenship.

M. De Tocqueville found in these minor local jurisdictions the theoretical conservatism which,
in the aggregate, is the safest reliance of the State. So we have found them, in practice,
the true protectors of the purity of the ballot, without which all free government will degenerate
into absolutism.

In the future of the Republic, we must encounter many difficult and dangerous situations, but
the principles established in the Constitution and the check upon hasty or inconsiderate legislation,
and upon executive action, and the supreme arbitrament of the courts, will be found sufficient
for the safety of personal rights, and for the safety of the government, and the prophetic
outlook of M. De Tocqueville will be fully realized through the influence of Democracy in America.
Each succeeding generation of Americans will find in the pure and impartial reflections of
De Tocqueville a new source of pride in our institutions of government, and sound reasons for
patriotic effort to preserve them and to inculcate their teachings. They have mastered the
power of monarchical rule in the American Hemisphere, freeing religion from all shackles, and
will spread, by a quiet but resistless influence, through the islands of the seas to other
lands, where the appeals of De Tocqueville for human rights and liberties have already inspired
the souls of the people.

Hon. John T. Morgan

Special Introduction By Hon. John J. Ingalls

Nearly two-thirds of a century has elapsed since the appearance of "Democracy in America,"
by Alexis Charles Henri Clerel de Tocqueville, a French nobleman, born at Paris, July 29, 1805.

Bred to the law, he exhibited an early predilection for philosophy and political economy, and
at twenty-two was appointed judge-auditor at the tribunal of Versailles.

In 1831, commissioned ostensibly to investigate the penitentiary system of the United States,
he visited this country, with his friend, Gustave de Beaumont, travelling extensively through
those parts of the Republic then subdued to settlement, studying the methods of local, State,
and national administration, and observing the manners and habits, the daily life, the business,
the industries and occupations of the people.

"Democracy in America," the first of four volumes upon "American Institutions and their Influence,"
was published in 1835. It was received at once by the scholars and thinkers of Europe as a
profound, impartial, and entertaining exposition of the principles of popular, representative
self-government.

Napoleon, "The mighty somnambulist of a vanished dream," had abolished feudalism and absolutism,
made monarchs and dynasties obsolete, and substituted for the divine right of kings the sovereignty
of the people.

Although by birth and sympathies an aristocrat, M. de Tocqueville saw that the reign of tradition
and privilege at last was ended. He perceived that civilization, after many bloody centuries,
had entered a new epoch. He beheld, and deplored, the excesses that had attended the genesis
of the democratic spirit in France, and while he loved liberty, he detested the crimes that
had been committed in its name. Belonging neither to the class which regarded the social revolution
as an innovation to be resisted, nor to that which considered political equality the universal
panacea for the evils of humanity, he resolved by personal observation of the results of democracy
in the New World to ascertain its natural consequences, and to learn what the nations of Europe
had to hope or fear from its final supremacy.

That a youth of twenty-six should entertain a design so broad and bold implies singular intellectual
intrepidity. He had neither model nor precedent. The vastness and novelty of the undertaking
increase admiration for the remarkable ability with which the task was performed.

Were literary excellence the sole claim of "Democracy in America" to distinction, the splendor
of its composition alone would entitle it to high place among the masterpieces of the century.
The first chapter, upon the exterior form of North America, as the theatre upon which the great
drama is to be enacted, for graphic and picturesque description of the physical characteristics
of the continent is not surpassed in literature: nor is there any subdivision of the work in
which the severest philosophy is not invested with the grace of poetry, and the driest statistics
with the charm of romance. Western emigration seemed commonplace and prosaic till M. de Tocqueville
said, "This gradual and continuous progress of the European race toward the Rocky Mountains
has the solemnity of a providential event; it is like a deluge of men rising unabatedly, and
daily driven onward by the hand of God!"

The mind of M. de Tocqueville had the candor of the photographic camera. It recorded impressions
with the impartiality of nature. The image was sometimes distorted, and the perspective was
not always true, but he was neither a panegyrist, nor an advocate, nor a critic. He observed
American phenomena as illustrations, not as proof nor arguments; and although it is apparent
that the tendency of his mind was not wholly favorable to the democratic principle, yet those
who dissent from his conclusions must commend the ability and courage with which they are expressed.

Though not originally written for Americans, "Democracy in America" must always remain a work
of engrossing and constantly increasing interest to citizens of the United States as the first
philosophic and comprehensive view of our society, institutions, and destiny. No one can rise
even from the most cursory perusal without clearer insight and more patriotic appreciation
of the blessings of liberty protected by law, nor without encouragement for the stability and
perpetuity of the Republic. The causes which appeared to M. de Tocqueville to menace both,
have gone. The despotism of public opinion, the tyranny of majorities, the absence of intellectual
freedom which seemed to him to degrade administration and bring statesmanship, learning, and
literature to the level of the lowest, are no longer considered. The violence of party spirit
has been mitigated, and the judgment of the wise is not subordinated to the prejudices of the
ignorant.

Other dangers have come. Equality of conditions no longer exists. Prophets of evil predict
the downfall of democracy, but the student of M. de Tocqueville will find consolation and encouragement
in the reflection that the same spirit which has vanquished the perils of the past, which he
foresaw, will be equally prepared for the responsibilities of the present and the future.

The last of the four volumes of M. de Tocqueville's work upon American institutions appeared
in 1840.

In 1838 he was chosen member of the Academy of Moral and Political Sciences. In 1839 he was
elected to the Chamber of Deputies. He became a member of the French Academy in 1841. In 1848
he was in the Assembly, and from June 2nd to October 31st he was Minister of Foreign Affairs.
The coup d'etat of December 2, 1851 drove him from the public service. In 1856 he published
"The Old Regime and the Revolution." He died at Cannes, April 15, 1859, at the age of fifty-four.
I readily discovered the prodigious influence which this primary fact exercises on the whole
course of society, by giving a certain direction to public opinion, and a certain tenor to
the laws; by imparting new maxims to the governing powers, and peculiar habits to the governed.
I speedily perceived that the influence of this fact extends far beyond the political character
and the laws of the country, and that it has no less empire over civil society than over the
Government; it creates opinions, engenders sentiments, suggests the ordinary practices of life,
and modifies whatever it does not produce. The more I advanced in the study of American society,
the more I perceived that the equality of conditions is the fundamental fact from which all
others seem to be derived, and the central point at which all my observations constantly terminated.

I then turned my thoughts to our own hemisphere, where I imagined that I discerned something
analogous to the spectacle which the New World presented to me. I observed that the equality
of conditions is daily progressing towards those extreme limits which it seems to have reached
in the United States, and that the democracy which governs the American communities appears
to be rapidly rising into power in Europe. I hence conceived the idea of the book which is
now before the reader.

It is evident to all alike that a great democratic revolution is going on amongst us; but there
are two opinions as to its nature and consequences. To some it appears to be a novel accident,
which as such may still be checked; to others it seems irresistible, because it is the most
uniform, the most ancient, and the most permanent tendency which is to be found in history.
Let us recollect the situation of France seven hundred years ago, when the territory was divided
amongst a small number of families, who were the owners of the soil and the rulers of the inhabitants;
the right of governing descended with the family inheritance from generation to generation;
force was the only means by which man could act on man, and landed property was the sole source
of power. Soon, however, the political power of the clergy was founded, and began to exert
itself: the clergy opened its ranks to all classes, to the poor and the rich, the villein and
the lord; equality penetrated into the Government through the Church, and the being who as
a serf must have vegetated in perpetual bondage took his place as a priest in the midst of
nobles, and not infrequently above the heads of kings.

The different relations of men became more complicated and more numerous as society gradually
became more stable and more civilized. Thence the want of civil laws was felt; and the order
of legal functionaries soon rose from the obscurity of the tribunals and their dusty chambers,
to appear at the court of the monarch, by the side of the feudal barons in their ermine and
their mail. Whilst the kings were ruining themselves by their great enterprises, and the nobles
exhausting their resources by private wars, the lower orders were enriching themselves by commerce.
The influence of money began to be perceptible in State affairs. The transactions of business
opened a new road to power, and the financier rose to a station of political influence in which
he was at once flattered and despised. Gradually the spread of mental acquirements, and the
increasing taste for literature and art, opened chances of success to talent; science became
a means of government, intelligence led to social power, and the man of letters took a part
in the affairs of the State. The value attached to the privileges of birth decreased in the
exact proportion in which new paths were struck out to advancement. In the eleventh century
nobility was beyond all price; in the thirteenth it might be purchased; it was conferred for
the first time in 1270; and equality was thus introduced into the Government by the aristocracy
itself.

In the course of these seven hundred years it sometimes happened that in order to resist the
authority of the Crown, or to diminish the power of their rivals, the nobles granted a certain
share of political rights to the people. Or, more frequently, the king permitted the lower
orders to enjoy a degree of power, with the intention of repressing the aristocracy. In France
the kings have always been the most active and the most constant of levellers. When they were
strong and ambitious they spared no pains to raise the people to the level of the nobles; when
they were temperate or weak they allowed the people to rise above themselves. Some assisted
the democracy by their talents, others by their vices. Louis XI and Louis XIV reduced every
rank beneath the throne to the same subjection; Louis XV descended, himself and all his Court,
into the dust.

As soon as land was held on any other than a feudal tenure, and personal property began in
its turn to confer influence and power, every improvement which was introduced in commerce
or manufacture was a fresh element of the equality of conditions. Henceforward every new discovery,
every new want which it engendered, and every new desire which craved satisfaction, was a step
towards the universal level. The taste for luxury, the love of war, the sway of fashion, and
the most superficial as well as the deepest passions of the human heart, co-operated to enrich
the poor and to impoverish the rich.

From the time when the exercise of the intellect became the source of strength and of wealth,
it is impossible not to consider every addition to science, every fresh truth, and every new
idea as a germ of power placed within the reach of the people. Poetry, eloquence, and memory,
the grace of wit, the glow of imagination, the depth of thought, and all the gifts which are
bestowed by Providence with an equal hand, turned to the advantage of the democracy; and even
when they were in the possession of its adversaries they still served its cause by throwing
into relief the natural greatness of man; its conquests spread, therefore, with those of civilization
and knowledge, and literature became an arsenal where the poorest and the weakest could always
find weapons to their hand.

In perusing the pages of our history, we shall scarcely meet with a single great event, in
the lapse of seven hundred years, which has not turned to the advantage of equality. The Crusades
and the wars of the English decimated the nobles and divided their possessions; the erection
of communities introduced an element of democratic liberty into the bosom of feudal monarchy;
the invention of fire-arms equalized the villein and the noble on the field of battle; printing
opened the same resources to the minds of all classes; the post was organized so as to bring
the same information to the door of the poor man's cottage and to the gate of the palace; and
Protestantism proclaimed that all men are alike able to find the road to heaven. The discovery
of America offered a thousand new paths to fortune, and placed riches and power within the
reach of the adventurous and the obscure. If we examine what has happened in France at intervals
of fifty years, beginning with the eleventh century, we shall invariably perceive that a twofold
revolution has taken place in the state of society. The noble has gone down on the social ladder,
and the roturier has gone up; the one descends as the other rises. Every half century brings
them nearer to each other, and they will very shortly meet.

Nor is this phenomenon at all peculiar to France. Whithersoever we turn our eyes we shall witness
the same continual revolution throughout the whole of Christendom. Would it, then, be wise
to imagine that a social impulse which dates from so far back can be checked by the efforts
of a generation? Is it credible that the democracy which has annihilated the feudal system
and vanquished kings will respect the citizen and the capitalist? Will it stop now that it
has grown so strong and its adversaries so weak? None can say which way we are going, for all
terms of comparison are wanting: the equality of conditions is more complete in the Christian
countries of the present day than it has been at any time or in any part of the world; so that
the extent of what already exists prevents us from foreseeing what may be yet to come.

The Christian nations of our age seem to me to present a most alarming spectacle; the impulse
which is bearing them along is so strong that it cannot be stopped, but it is not yet so rapid
that it cannot be guided: their fate is in their hands; yet a little while and it may be so
no longer. The first duty which is at this time imposed upon those who direct our affairs is
to educate the democracy; to warm its faith, if that be possible; to purify its morals; to
direct its energies; to substitute a knowledge of business for its inexperience, and an acquaintance
with its true interests for its blind propensities; to adapt its government to time and place,
and to modify it in compliance with the occurrences and the actors of the age. A new science
of politics is indispensable to a new world. This, however, is what we think of least; launched
in the middle of a rapid stream, we obstinately fix our eyes on the ruins which may still be
described upon the shore we have left, whilst the current sweeps us along, and drives us backwards
towards the gulf.

In no country in Europe has the great social revolution which I have been describing made such
rapid progress as in France; but it has always been borne on by chance. The heads of the State
have never had any forethought for its exigencies, and its victories have been obtained without
their consent or without their knowledge. The most powerful, the most intelligent, and the
most moral classes of the nation have never attempted to connect themselves with it in order
to guide it. The people has consequently been abandoned to its wild propensities, and it has
grown up like those outcasts who receive their education in the public streets, and who are
unacquainted with aught but the vices and wretchedness of society. The existence of a democracy
was seemingly unknown, when on a sudden it took possession of the supreme power. Everything
was then submitted to its caprices; it was worshipped as the idol of strength; until, when
it was enfeebled by its own excesses, the legislator conceived the rash project of annihilating
its power, instead of instructing it and correcting its vices; no attempt was made to fit it
to govern, but all were bent on excluding it from the government.

The consequence of this has been that the democratic revolution has been effected only in the
material parts of society, without that concomitant change in laws, ideas, customs, and manners
which was necessary to render such a revolution beneficial. We have gotten a democracy, but
without the conditions which lessen its vices and render its natural advantages more prominent;
and although we already perceive the evils it brings, we are ignorant of the benefits it may
confer.

While the power of the Crown, supported by the aristocracy, peaceably governed the nations
of Europe, society possessed, in the midst of its wretchedness, several different advantages
which can now scarcely be appreciated or conceived. The power of a part of his subjects was
an insurmountable barrier to the tyranny of the prince; and the monarch, who felt the almost
divine character which he enjoyed in the eyes of the multitude, derived a motive for the just
use of his power from the respect which he inspired. High as they were placed above the people,
the nobles could not but take that calm and benevolent interest in its fate which the shepherd
feels towards his flock; and without acknowledging the poor as their equals, they watched over
the destiny of those whose welfare Providence had entrusted to their care. The people never
having conceived the idea of a social condition different from its own, and entertaining no
expectation of ever ranking with its chiefs, received benefits from them without discussing
their rights. It grew attached to them when they were clement and just, and it submitted without
resistance or servility to their exactions, as to the inevitable visitations of the arm of
God. Custom, and the manners of the time, had moreover created a species of law in the midst
of violence, and established certain limits to oppression. As the noble never suspected that
anyone would attempt to deprive him of the privileges which he believed to be legitimate, and
as the serf looked upon his own inferiority as a consequence of the immutable order of nature,
it is easy to imagine that a mutual exchange of good-will took place between two classes so
differently gifted by fate. Inequality and wretchedness were then to be found in society; but
the souls of neither rank of men were degraded. Men are not corrupted by the exercise of power
or debased by the habit of obedience, but by the exercise of a power which they believe to
be illegal and by obedience to a rule which they consider to be usurped and oppressive. On
one side was wealth, strength, and leisure, accompanied by the refinements of luxury, the elegance
of taste, the pleasures of wit, and the religion of art. On the other was labor and a rude
ignorance; but in the midst of this coarse and ignorant multitude it was not uncommon to meet
with energetic passions, generous sentiments, profound religious convictions, and independent
virtues. The body of a State thus organized might boast of its stability, its power, and, above
all, of its glory.

But the scene is now changed, and gradually the two ranks mingle; the divisions which once
severed mankind are lowered, property is divided, power is held in common, the light of intelligence
spreads, and the capacities of all classes are equally cultivated; the State becomes democratic,
and the empire of democracy is slowly and peaceably introduced into the institutions and the
manners of the nation. I can conceive a society in which all men would profess an equal attachment
and respect for the laws of which they are the common authors; in which the authority of the
State would be respected as necessary, though not as divine; and the loyalty of the subject
to its chief magistrate would not be a passion, but a quiet and rational persuasion. Every
individual being in the possession of rights which he is sure to retain, a kind of manly reliance
and reciprocal courtesy would arise between all classes, alike removed from pride and meanness.
The people, well acquainted with its true interests, would allow that in order to profit by
the advantages of society it is necessary to satisfy its demands. In this state of things the
voluntary association of the citizens might supply the individual exertions of the nobles,
and the community would be alike protected from anarchy and from oppression.

I admit that, in a democratic State thus constituted, society will not be stationary; but the
impulses of the social body may be regulated and directed forwards; if there be less splendor
than in the halls of an aristocracy, the contrast of misery will be less frequent also; the
pleasures of enjoyment may be less excessive, but those of comfort will be more general; the
sciences may be less perfectly cultivated, but ignorance will be less common; the impetuosity
of the feelings will be repressed, and the habits of the nation softened; there will be more
vices and fewer crimes. In the absence of enthusiasm and of an ardent faith, great sacrifices
may be obtained from the members of a commonwealth by an appeal to their understandings and
their experience; each individual will feel the same necessity for uniting with his fellow-citizens
to protect his own weakness; and as he knows that if they are to assist he must co-operate,
he will readily perceive that his personal interest is identified with the interest of the
community. The nation, taken as a whole, will be less brilliant, less glorious, and perhaps
less strong; but the majority of the citizens will enjoy a greater degree of prosperity, and
the people will remain quiet, not because it despairs of amelioration, but because it is conscious
of the advantages of its condition. If all the consequences of this state of things were not
good or useful, society would at least have appropriated all such as were useful and good;
and having once and for ever renounced the social advantages of aristocracy, mankind would
enter into possession of all the benefits which democracy can afford.

But here it may be asked what we have adopted in the place of those institutions, those ideas,
and those customs of our forefathers which we have abandoned. The spell of royalty is broken,
but it has not been succeeded by the majesty of the laws; the people has learned to despise
all authority, but fear now extorts a larger tribute of obedience than that which was formerly
paid by reverence and by love.

I perceive that we have destroyed those independent beings which were able to cope with tyranny
single-handed; but it is the Government that has inherited the privileges of which families,
corporations, and individuals have been deprived; the weakness of the whole community has therefore
succeeded that influence of a small body of citizens, which, if it was sometimes oppressive,
was often conservative. The division of property has lessened the distance which separated
the rich from the poor; but it would seem that the nearer they draw to each other, the greater
is their mutual hatred, and the more vehement the envy and the dread with which they resist
each other's claims to power; the notion of Right is alike insensible to both classes, and
Force affords to both the only argument for the present, and the only guarantee for the future.
The poor man retains the prejudices of his forefathers without their faith, and their ignorance
without their virtues; he has adopted the doctrine of self-interest as the rule of his actions,
without understanding the science which controls it, and his egotism is no less blind than
his devotedness was formerly. If society is tranquil, it is not because it relies upon its
strength and its well-being, but because it knows its weakness and its infirmities; a single
effort may cost it its life; everybody feels the evil, but no one has courage or energy enough
to seek the cure; the desires, the regret, the sorrows, and the joys of the time produce nothing
that is visible or permanent, like the passions of old men which terminate in impotence.

We have, then, abandoned whatever advantages the old state of things afforded, without receiving
any compensation from our present condition; we have destroyed an aristocracy, and we seem
inclined to survey its ruins with complacency, and to fix our abode in the midst of them.

The phenomena which the intellectual world presents are not less deplorable. The democracy
of France, checked in its course or abandoned to its lawless passions, has overthrown whatever
crossed its path, and has shaken all that it has not destroyed. Its empire on society has not
been gradually introduced or peaceably established, but it has constantly advanced in the midst
of disorder and the agitation of a conflict. In the heat of the struggle each partisan is hurried
beyond the limits of his opinions by the opinions and the excesses of his opponents, until
he loses sight of the end of his exertions, and holds a language which disguises his real sentiments
or secret instincts. Hence arises the strange confusion which we are witnessing. I cannot recall
to my mind a passage in history more worthy of sorrow and of pity than the scenes which are
happening under our eyes; it is as if the natural bond which unites the opinions of man to
his tastes and his actions to his principles was now broken; the sympathy which has always
been acknowledged between the feelings and the ideas of mankind appears to be dissolved, and
all the laws of moral analogy to be dissolved, and all the laws of moral analogy to be abolished.

Zealous Christians may be found amongst us whose minds are nurtured in the love and knowledge
of a future life, and who readily espouse the cause of human liberty as the source of all moral
greatness. Christianity, which has declared that all men are equal in the sight of God, will
not refuse to acknowledge that all citizens are equal in the eye of the law. But, by a singular
concourse of events, religion is entangled in those institutions which democracy assails, and
it is not unfrequently brought to reject the equality it loves, and to curse that cause of
liberty as a foe which it might hallow by its alliance.

By the side of these religious men I discern others whose looks are turned to the earth more
than to Heaven; they are the partisans of liberty, not only as the source of the noblest virtues,
but more especially as the root of all solid advantages; and they sincerely desire to extend
its sway, and to impart its blessings to mankind. It is natural that they should hasten to
invoke the assistance of religion, for they must know that liberty cannot be established without
morality, nor morality without faith; but they have seen religion in the ranks of their adversaries,
and they inquire no further; some of them attack it openly, and the remainder are afraid to
defend it.

In former ages slavery has been advocated by the venal and slavish-minded, whilst the independent
and the warm-hearted were struggling without hope to save the liberties of mankind. But men
of high and generous characters are now to be met with, whose opinions are at variance with
their inclinations, and who praise that servility which they have themselves never known. Others,
on the contrary, speak in the name of liberty, as if they were able to feel its sanctity and
its majesty, and loudly claim for humanity those rights which they have always disowned. There
are virtuous and peaceful individuals whose pure morality, quiet habits, affluence, and talents
fit them to be the leaders of the surrounding population; their love of their country is sincere,
and they are prepared to make the greatest sacrifices to its welfare, but they confound the
abuses of civilization with its benefits, and the idea of evil is inseparable in their minds
from that of novelty.

Not far from this class is another party, whose object is to materialize mankind, to hit upon
what is expedient without heeding what is just, to acquire knowledge without faith, and prosperity
apart from virtue; assuming the title of the champions of modern civilization, and placing
themselves in a station which they usurp with insolence, and from which they are driven by
their own unworthiness. Where are we then? The religionists are the enemies of liberty, and
the friends of liberty attack religion; the high-minded and the noble advocate subjection,
and the meanest and most servile minds preach independence; honest and enlightened citizens
are opposed to all progress, whilst men without patriotism and without principles are the apostles
of civilization and of intelligence. Has such been the fate of the centuries which have preceded
our own? and has man always inhabited a world like the present, where nothing is linked together,
where virtue is without genius, and genius without honor; where the love of order is confounded
with a taste for oppression, and the holy rites of freedom with a contempt of law; where the
light thrown by conscience on human actions is dim, and where nothing seems to be any longer
forbidden or allowed, honorable or shameful, false or true? I cannot, however, believe that
the Creator made man to leave him in an endless struggle with the intellectual miseries which
surround us: God destines a calmer and a more certain future to the communities of Europe;
I am unacquainted with His designs, but I shall not cease to believe in them because I cannot
fathom them, and I had rather mistrust my own capacity than His justice.

There is a country in the world where the great revolution which I am speaking of seems nearly
to have reached its natural limits; it has been effected with ease and simplicity, say rather
that this country has attained the consequences of the democratic revolution which we are undergoing
without having experienced the revolution itself. The emigrants who fixed themselves on the
shores of America in the beginning of the seventeenth century severed the democratic principle
from all the principles which repressed it in the old communities of Europe, and transplanted
it unalloyed to the New World. It has there been allowed to spread in perfect freedom, and
to put forth its consequences in the laws by influencing the manners of the country.

It appears to me beyond a doubt that sooner or later we shall arrive, like the Americans, at
an almost complete equality of conditions. But I do not conclude from this that we shall ever
be necessarily led to draw the same political consequences which the Americans have derived
from a similar social organization. I am far from supposing that they have chosen the only
form of government which a democracy may adopt; but the identity of the efficient cause of
laws and manners in the two countries is sufficient to account for the immense interest we
have in becoming acquainted with its effects in each of them.

In the first part of this work I have attempted to show the tendency given to the laws by the
democracy of America, which is abandoned almost without restraint to its instinctive propensities,
and to exhibit the course it prescribes to the Government and the influence it exercises on
affairs. I have sought to discover the evils and the advantages which it produces. I have examined
the precautions used by the Americans to direct it, as well as those which they have not adopted,
and I have undertaken to point out the causes which enable it to govern society. I do not know
whether I have succeeded in making known what I saw in America, but I am certain that such
has been my sincere desire, and that I have never, knowingly, moulded facts to ideas, instead
of ideas to facts.

Whenever a point could be established by the aid of written documents, I have had recourse
to the original text, and to the most authentic and approved works. I have cited my authorities
in the notes, and anyone may refer to them. Whenever an opinion, a political custom, or a remark
on the manners of the country was concerned, I endeavored to consult the most enlightened men
I met with. If the point in question was important or doubtful, I was not satisfied with one
testimony, but I formed my opinion on the evidence of several witnesses. Here the reader must
necessarily believe me upon my word. I could frequently have quoted names which are either
known to him, or which deserve to be so, in proof of what I advance; but I have carefully abstained
from this practice. A stranger frequently hears important truths at the fire-side of his host,
which the latter would perhaps conceal from the ear of friendship; he consoles himself with
his guest for the silence to which he is restricted, and the shortness of the traveller's stay
takes away all fear of his indiscretion. I carefully noted every conversation of this nature
as soon as it occurred, but these notes will never leave my writing-case; I had rather injure
the success of my statements than add my name to the list of those strangers who repay the
generous hospitality they have received by subsequent chagrin and annoyance.

I am aware that, notwithstanding my care, nothing will be easier than to criticise this book,
if anyone ever chooses to criticise it. Those readers who may examine it closely will discover
the fundamental idea which connects the several parts together. But the diversity of the subjects
I have had to treat is exceedingly great, and it will not be difficult to oppose an isolated
fact to the body of facts which I quote, or an isolated idea to the body of ideas I put forth.
I hope to be read in the spirit which has guided my labors, and that my book may be judged
by the general impression it leaves, as I have formed my own judgment not on any single reason,
but upon the mass of evidence. It must not be forgotten that the author who wishes to be understood
is obliged to push all his ideas to their utmost theoretical consequences, and often to the
verge of what is false or impracticable; for if it be necessary sometimes to quit the rules
of logic in active life, such is not the case in discourse, and a man finds that almost as
many difficulties spring from inconsistency of language as usually arise from inconsistency
of conduct.

I conclude by pointing out myself what many readers will consider the principal defect of the
work. This book is written to favor no particular views, and in composing it I have entertained
no designs of serving or attacking any party; I have undertaken not to see differently, but
to look further than parties, and whilst they are busied for the morrow I have turned my thoughts
to the Future.

Chapter I: Exterior Form Of North America

Chapter Summary

North America divided into two vast regions, one inclining towards the Pole, the other towards
the Equator--Valley of the Mississippi--Traces of the Revolutions of the Globe--Shore of the
Atlantic Ocean where the English Colonies were founded--Difference in the appearance of North
and of South America at the time of their Discovery--Forests of North America--Prairies--Wandering
Tribes of Natives--Their outward appearance, manners, and language--Traces of an unknown people.

Exterior Form Of North America

North America presents in its external form certain general features which it is easy to discriminate
at the first glance. A sort of methodical order seems to have regulated the separation of land
and water, mountains and valleys. A simple, but grand, arrangement is discoverable amidst the
confusion of objects and the prodigious variety of scenes. This continent is divided, almost
equally, into two vast regions, one of which is bounded on the north by the Arctic Pole, and
by the two great oceans on the east and west. It stretches towards the south, forming a triangle
whose irregular sides meet at length below the great lakes of Canada. The second region begins
where the other terminates, and includes all the remainder of the continent. The one slopes
gently towards the Pole, the other towards the Equator.

The territory comprehended in the first region descends towards the north with so imperceptible
a slope that it may almost be said to form a level plain. Within the bounds of this immense
tract of country there are neither high mountains nor deep valleys. Streams meander through
it irregularly: great rivers mix their currents, separate and meet again, disperse and form
vast marshes, losing all trace of their channels in the labyrinth of waters they have themselves
created; and thus, at length, after innumerable windings, fall into the Polar Seas. The great
lakes which bound this first region are not walled in, like most of those in the Old World,
between hills and rocks. Their banks are flat, and rise but a few feet above the level of their
waters; each of them thus forming a vast bowl filled to the brim. The slightest change in the
structure of the globe would cause their waters to rush either towards the Pole or to the tropical
sea.

The second region is more varied on its surface, and better suited for the habitation of man.
Two long chains of mountains divide it from one extreme to the other; the Alleghany ridge takes
the form of the shores of the Atlantic Ocean; the other is parallel with the Pacific. The space
which lies between these two chains of mountains contains 1,341,649 square miles. *a Its surface
is therefore about six times as great as that of France. This vast territory, however, forms
a single valley, one side of which descends gradually from the rounded summits of the Alleghanies,
while the other rises in an uninterrupted course towards the tops of the Rocky Mountains. At
the bottom of the valley flows an immense river, into which the various streams issuing from
the mountains fall from all parts. In memory of their native land, the French formerly called
this river the St. Louis. The Indians, in their pompous language, have named it the Father
of Waters, or the Mississippi.

[Footnote a: Darby's "View of the United States."]

The Mississippi takes its source above the limit of the two great regions of which I have spoken,
not far from the highest point of the table-land where they unite. Near the same spot rises
another river, *b which empties itself into the Polar seas. The course of the Mississippi is
at first dubious: it winds several times towards the north, from whence it rose; and at length,
after having been delayed in lakes and marshes, it flows slowly onwards to the south. Sometimes
quietly gliding along the argillaceous bed which nature has assigned to it, sometimes swollen
by storms, the Mississippi waters 2,500 miles in its course. *c At the distance of 1,364 miles
from its mouth this river attains an average depth of fifteen feet; and it is navigated by
vessels of 300 tons burden for a course of nearly 500 miles. Fifty-seven large navigable rivers
contribute to swell the waters of the Mississippi; amongst others, the Missouri, which traverses
a space of 2,500 miles; the Arkansas of 1,300 miles, the Red River 1,000 miles, four whose
course is from 800 to 1,000 miles in length, viz., the Illinois, the St. Peter's, the St. Francis,
and the Moingona; besides a countless multitude of rivulets which unite from all parts their
tributary streams.

[Footnote b: The Red River.]

[Footnote c: Warden's "Description of the United States."]

The valley which is watered by the Mississippi seems formed to be the bed of this mighty river,
which, like a god of antiquity, dispenses both good and evil in its course. On the shores of
the stream nature displays an inexhaustible fertility; in proportion as you recede from its
banks, the powers of vegetation languish, the soil becomes poor, and the plants that survive
have a sickly growth. Nowhere have the great convulsions of the globe left more evident traces
than in the valley of the Mississippi; the whole aspect of the country shows the powerful effects
of water, both by its fertility and by its barrenness. The waters of the primeval ocean accumulated
enormous beds of vegetable mould in the valley, which they levelled as they retired. Upon the
right shore of the river are seen immense plains, as smooth as if the husbandman had passed
over them with his roller. As you approach the mountains the soil becomes more and more unequal
and sterile; the ground is, as it were, pierced in a thousand places by primitive rocks, which
appear like the bones of a skeleton whose flesh is partly consumed. The surface of the earth
is covered with a granite sand and huge irregular masses of stone, among which a few plants
force their growth, and give the appearance of a green field covered with the ruins of a vast
edifice. These stones and this sand discover, on examination, a perfect analogy with those
which compose the arid and broken summits of the Rocky Mountains. The flood of waters which
washed the soil to the bottom of the valley afterwards carried away portions of the rocks themselves;
and these, dashed and bruised against the neighboring cliffs, were left scattered like wrecks
at their feet. *d The valley of the Mississippi is, upon the whole, the most magnificent dwelling-place
prepared by God for man's abode; and yet it may be said that at present it is but a mighty desert.

[Footnote d: See Appendix, A.]

On the eastern side of the Alleghanies, between the base of these mountains and the Atlantic
Ocean, there lies a long ridge of rocks and sand, which the sea appears to have left behind
as it retired. The mean breadth of this territory does not exceed one hundred miles; but it
is about nine hundred miles in length. This part of the American continent has a soil which
offers every obstacle to the husbandman, and its vegetation is scanty and unvaried.

Upon this inhospitable coast the first united efforts of human industry were made. The tongue
of arid land was the cradle of those English colonies which were destined one day to become
the United States of America. The centre of power still remains here; whilst in the backwoods
the true elements of the great people to whom the future control of the continent belongs are
gathering almost in secrecy together.

When the Europeans first landed on the shores of the West Indies, and afterwards on the coast
of South America, they thought themselves transported into those fabulous regions of which
poets had sung. The sea sparkled with phosphoric light, and the extraordinary transparency
of its waters discovered to the view of the navigator all that had hitherto been hidden in
the deep abyss. *e Here and there appeared little islands perfumed with odoriferous plants,
and resembling baskets of flowers floating on the tranquil surface of the ocean. Every object
which met the sight, in this enchanting region, seemed prepared to satisfy the wants or contribute
to the pleasures of man. Almost all the trees were loaded with nourishing fruits, and those
which were useless as food delighted the eye by the brilliancy and variety of their colors.
In groves of fragrant lemon-trees, wild figs, flowering myrtles, acacias, and oleanders, which
were hung with festoons of various climbing plants, covered with flowers, a multitude of birds
unknown in Europe displayed their bright plumage, glittering with purple and azure, and mingled
their warbling with the harmony of a world teeming with life and motion. *f Underneath this
brilliant exterior death was concealed. But the air of these climates had so enervating an
influence that man, absorbed by present enjoyment, was rendered regardless of the future.

[Footnote e: Malte Brun tells us (vol. v. p. 726) that the water of the Caribbean Sea is so
transparent that corals and fish are discernible at a depth of sixty fathoms. The ship seemed
to float in air, the navigator became giddy as his eye penetrated through the crystal flood,
and beheld submarine gardens, or beds of shells, or gilded fishes gliding among tufts and thickets
of seaweed.]

[Footnote f: See Appendix, B.]

North America appeared under a very different aspect; there everything was grave, serious,
and solemn: it seemed created to be the domain of intelligence, as the South was that of sensual
delight. A turbulent and foggy ocean washed its shores. It was girt round by a belt of granite
rocks, or by wide tracts of sand. The foliage of its woods was dark and gloomy, for they were
composed of firs, larches, evergreen oaks, wild olive-trees, and laurels. Beyond this outer
belt lay the thick shades of the central forest, where the largest trees which are produced
in the two hemispheres grow side by side. The plane, the catalpa, the sugar-maple, and the
Virginian poplar mingled their branches with those of the oak, the beech, and the lime. In
these, as in the forests of the Old World, destruction was perpetually going on. The ruins
of vegetation were heaped upon each other; but there was no laboring hand to remove them, and
their decay was not rapid enough to make room for the continual work of reproduction. Climbing
plants, grasses, and other herbs forced their way through the mass of dying trees; they crept
along their bending trunks, found nourishment in their dusty cavities, and a passage beneath
the lifeless bark. Thus decay gave its assistance to life, and their respective productions
were mingled together. The depths of these forests were gloomy and obscure, and a thousand
rivulets, undirected in their course by human industry, preserved in them a constant moisture.
It was rare to meet with flowers, wild fruits, or birds beneath their shades. The fall of a
tree overthrown by age, the rushing torrent of a cataract, the lowing of the buffalo, and the
howling of the wind were the only sounds which broke the silence of nature.

To the east of the great river, the woods almost disappeared; in their stead were seen prairies
of immense extent. Whether Nature in her infinite variety had denied the germs of trees to
these fertile plains, or whether they had once been covered with forests, subsequently destroyed
by the hand of man, is a question which neither tradition nor scientific research has been
able to resolve.

These immense deserts were not, however, devoid of human inhabitants. Some wandering tribes
had been for ages scattered among the forest shades or the green pastures of the prairie. From
the mouth of the St. Lawrence to the delta of the Mississippi, and from the Atlantic to the
Pacific Ocean, these savages possessed certain points of resemblance which bore witness of
their common origin; but at the same time they differed from all other known races of men:
*g they were neither white like the Europeans, nor yellow like most of the Asiatics, nor black
like the negroes. Their skin was reddish brown, their hair long and shining, their lips thin,
and their cheekbones very prominent. The languages spoken by the North American tribes are
various as far as regarded their words, but they were subject to the same grammatical rules.
These rules differed in several points from such as had been observed to govern the origin
of language. The idiom of the Americans seemed to be the product of new combinations, and bespoke
an effort of the understanding of which the Indians of our days would be incapable. *h

[Footnote g: With the progress of discovery some resemblance has been found to exist between
the physical conformation, the language, and the habits of the Indians of North America, and
those of the Tongous, Mantchous, Mongols, Tartars, and other wandering tribes of Asia. The
land occupied by these tribes is not very distant from Behring's Strait, which allows of the
supposition, that at a remote period they gave inhabitants to the desert continent of America.
But this is a point which has not yet been clearly elucidated by science. See Malte Brun, vol.
v.; the works of Humboldt; Fischer, "Conjecture sur l'Origine des Americains"; Adair, "History
of the American Indians."]

[Footnote h: See Appendix, C.]

The social state of these tribes differed also in many respects from all that was seen in the
Old World. They seemed to have multiplied freely in the midst of their deserts without coming
in contact with other races more civilized than their own. Accordingly, they exhibited none
of those indistinct, incoherent notions of right and wrong, none of that deep corruption of
manners, which is usually joined with ignorance and rudeness among nations which, after advancing
to civilization, have relapsed into a state of barbarism. The Indian was indebted to no one
but himself; his virtues, his vices, and his prejudices were his own work; he had grown up
in the wild independence of his nature.

If, in polished countries, the lowest of the people are rude and uncivil, it is not merely
because they are poor and ignorant, but that, being so, they are in daily contact with rich
and enlightened men. The sight of their own hard lot and of their weakness, which is daily
contrasted with the happiness and power of some of their fellow-creatures, excites in their
hearts at the same time the sentiments of anger and of fear: the consciousness of their inferiority
and of their dependence irritates while it humiliates them. This state of mind displays itself
in their manners and language; they are at once insolent and servile. The truth of this is
easily proved by observation; the people are more rude in aristocratic countries than elsewhere,
in opulent cities than in rural districts. In those places where the rich and powerful are
assembled together the weak and the indigent feel themselves oppressed by their inferior condition.
Unable to perceive a single chance of regaining their equality, they give up to despair, and
allow themselves to fall below the dignity of human nature.

This unfortunate effect of the disparity of conditions is not observable in savage life: the
Indians, although they are ignorant and poor, are equal and free. At the period when Europeans
first came among them the natives of North America were ignorant of the value of riches, and
indifferent to the enjoyments which civilized man procures to himself by their means. Nevertheless
there was nothing coarse in their demeanor; they practised an habitual reserve and a kind of
aristocratic politeness. Mild and hospitable when at peace, though merciless in war beyond
any known degree of human ferocity, the Indian would expose himself to die of hunger in order
to succor the stranger who asked admittance by night at the door of his hut; yet he could tear
in pieces with his hands the still quivering limbs of his prisoner. The famous republics of
antiquity never gave examples of more unshaken courage, more haughty spirits, or more intractable
love of independence than were hidden in former times among the wild forests of the New World.
*i The Europeans produced no great impression when they landed upon the shores of North America;
their presence engendered neither envy nor fear. What influence could they possess over such
men as we have described? The Indian could live without wants, suffer without complaint, and
pour out his death-song at the stake. *j Like all the other members of the great human family,
these savages believed in the existence of a better world, and adored under different names,
God, the creator of the universe. Their notions on the great intellectual truths were in general
simple and philosophical. *k

[Footnote i: We learn from President Jefferson's "Notes upon Virginia," p. 148, that among
the Iroquois, when attacked by a superior force, aged men refused to fly or to survive the
destruction of their country; and they braved death like the ancient Romans when their capital
was sacked by the Gauls. Further on, p. 150, he tells us that there is no example of an Indian
who, having fallen into the hands of his enemies, begged for his life; on the contrary, the
captive sought to obtain death at the hands of his conquerors by the use of insult and provocation.]

[Footnote j: See "Histoire de la Louisiane," by Lepage Dupratz; Charlevoix, "Histoire de la
Nouvelle France"; "Lettres du Rev. G. Hecwelder;" "Transactions of the American Philosophical
Society," v. I; Jefferson's "Notes on Virginia," pp. 135-190. What is said by Jefferson is
of especial weight, on account of the personal merit of the writer, of his peculiar position,
and of the matter-of-fact age in which he lived.]

[Footnote k: See Appendix, D.]

Although we have here traced the character of a primitive people, yet it cannot be doubted
that another people, more civilized and more advanced in all respects, had preceded it in the
same regions.

An obscure tradition which prevailed among the Indians to the north of the Atlantic informs
us that these very tribes formerly dwelt on the west side of the Mississippi. Along the banks
of the Ohio, and throughout the central valley, there are frequently found, at this day, tumuli
raised by the hands of men. On exploring these heaps of earth to their centre, it is usual
to meet with human bones, strange instruments, arms and utensils of all kinds, made of metal,
or destined for purposes unknown to the present race. The Indians of our time are unable to
give any information relative to the history of this unknown people. Neither did those who
lived three hundred years ago, when America was first discovered, leave any accounts from which
even an hypothesis could be formed. Tradition--that perishable, yet ever renewed monument of
the pristine world--throws no light upon the subject. It is an undoubted fact, however, that
in this part of the globe thousands of our fellow-beings had lived. When they came hither,
what was their origin, their destiny, their history, and how they perished, no one can tell.
How strange does it appear that nations have existed, and afterwards so completely disappeared
from the earth that the remembrance of their very names is effaced; their languages are lost;
their glory is vanished like a sound without an echo; though perhaps there is not one which
has not left behind it some tomb in memory of its passage! The most durable monument of human
labor is that which recalls the wretchedness and nothingness of man.

Although the vast country which we have been describing was inhabited by many indigenous tribes,
it may justly be said at the time of its discovery by Europeans to have formed one great desert.
The Indians occupied without possessing it. It is by agricultural labor that man appropriates
the soil, and the early inhabitants of North America lived by the produce of the chase. Their
implacable prejudices, their uncontrolled passions, their vices, and still more perhaps their
savage virtues, consigned them to inevitable destruction. The ruin of these nations began from
the day when Europeans landed on their shores; it has proceeded ever since, and we are now
witnessing the completion of it. They seem to have been placed by Providence amidst the riches
of the New World to enjoy them for a season, and then surrender them. Those coasts, so admirably
adapted for commerce and industry; those wide and deep rivers; that inexhaustible valley of
the Mississippi; the whole continent, in short, seemed prepared to be the abode of a great
nation, yet unborn.

In that land the great experiment was to be made, by civilized man, of the attempt to construct
society upon a new basis; and it was there, for the first time, that theories hitherto unknown,
or deemed impracticable, were to exhibit a spectacle for which the world had not been prepared
by the history of the past.

Chapter II: Origin Of The Anglo-Americans--Part I

Chapter Summary

Utility of knowing the origin of nations in order to understand their social condition and
their laws--America the only country in which the starting-point of a great people has been
clearly observable--In what respects all who emigrated to British America were similar--In
what they differed--Remark applicable to all Europeans who established themselves on the shores
of the New World--Colonization of Virginia--Colonization of New England--Original character
of the first inhabitants of New England--Their arrival--Their first laws--Their social contract--Penal
code borrowed from the Hebrew legislation--Religious fervor--Republican spirit--Intimate union
of the spirit of religion with the spirit of liberty.

Origin Of The Anglo-Americans, And Its Importance In Relation To Their Future Condition.

After the birth of a human being his early years are obscurely spent in the toils or pleasures
of childhood. As he grows up the world receives him, when his manhood begins, and he enters
into contact with his fellows. He is then studied for the first time, and it is imagined that
the germ of the vices and the virtues of his maturer years is then formed. This, if I am not
mistaken, is a great error. We must begin higher up; we must watch the infant in its mother's
arms; we must see the first images which the external world casts upon the dark mirror of his
mind; the first occurrences which he witnesses; we must hear the first words which awaken the
sleeping powers of thought, and stand by his earliest efforts, if we would understand the prejudices,
the habits, and the passions which will rule his life. The entire man is, so to speak, to be
seen in the cradle of the child.

The growth of nations presents something analogous to this: they all bear some marks of their
origin; and the circumstances which accompanied their birth and contributed to their rise affect
the whole term of their being. If we were able to go back to the elements of states, and to
examine the oldest monuments of their history, I doubt not that we should discover the primal
cause of the prejudices, the habits, the ruling passions, and, in short, of all that constitutes
what is called the national character; we should then find the explanation of certain customs
which now seem at variance with the prevailing manners; of such laws as conflict with established
principles; and of such incoherent opinions as are here and there to be met with in society,
like those fragments of broken chains which we sometimes see hanging from the vault of an edifice,
and supporting nothing. This might explain the destinies of certain nations, which seem borne
on by an unknown force to ends of which they themselves are ignorant. But hitherto facts have
been wanting to researches of this kind: the spirit of inquiry has only come upon communities
in their latter days; and when they at length contemplated their origin, time had already obscured
it, or ignorance and pride adorned it with truth-concealing fables.

America is the only country in which it has been possible to witness the natural and tranquil
growth of society, and where the influences exercised on the future condition of states by
their origin is clearly distinguishable. At the period when the peoples of Europe landed in
the New World their national characteristics were already completely formed; each of them had
a physiognomy of its own; and as they had already attained that stage of civilization at which
men are led to study themselves, they have transmitted to us a faithful picture of their opinions,
their manners, and their laws. The men of the sixteenth century are almost as well known to
us as our contemporaries. America, consequently, exhibits in the broad light of day the phenomena
which the ignorance or rudeness of earlier ages conceals from our researches. Near enough to
the time when the states of America were founded, to be accurately acquainted with their elements,
and sufficiently removed from that period to judge of some of their results, the men of our
own day seem destined to see further than their predecessors into the series of human events.
Providence has given us a torch which our forefathers did not possess, and has allowed us to
discern fundamental causes in the history of the world which the obscurity of the past concealed
from them. If we carefully examine the social and political state of America, after having
studied its history, we shall remain perfectly convinced that not an opinion, not a custom,
not a law, I may even say not an event, is upon record which the origin of that people will
not explain. The readers of this book will find the germ of all that is to follow in the present
chapter, and the key to almost the whole work.

The emigrants who came, at different periods to occupy the territory now covered by the American
Union differed from each other in many respects; their aim was not the same, and they governed
themselves on different principles. These men had, however, certain features in common, and
they were all placed in an analogous situation. The tie of language is perhaps the strongest
and the most durable that can unite mankind. All the emigrants spoke the same tongue; they
were all offsets from the same people. Born in a country which had been agitated for centuries
by the struggles of faction, and in which all parties had been obliged in their turn to place
themselves under the protection of the laws, their political education had been perfected in
this rude school, and they were more conversant with the notions of right and the principles
of true freedom than the greater part of their European contemporaries. At the period of their
first emigrations the parish system, that fruitful germ of free institutions, was deeply rooted
in the habits of the English; and with it the doctrine of the sovereignty of the people had
been introduced into the bosom of the monarchy of the House of Tudor.

The religious quarrels which have agitated the Christian world were then rife. England had
plunged into the new order of things with headlong vehemence. The character of its inhabitants,
which had always been sedate and reflective, became argumentative and austere. General information
had been increased by intellectual debate, and the mind had received a deeper cultivation.
Whilst religion was the topic of discussion, the morals of the people were reformed. All these
national features are more or less discoverable in the physiognomy of those adventurers who
came to seek a new home on the opposite shores of the Atlantic.

Another remark, to which we shall hereafter have occasion to recur, is applicable not only
to the English, but to the French, the Spaniards, and all the Europeans who successively established
themselves in the New World. All these European colonies contained the elements, if not the
development, of a complete democracy. Two causes led to this result. It may safely be advanced,
that on leaving the mother-country the emigrants had in general no notion of superiority over
one another. The happy and the powerful do not go into exile, and there are no surer guarantees
of equality among men than poverty and misfortune. It happened, however, on several occasions,
that persons of rank were driven to America by political and religious quarrels. Laws were
made to establish a gradation of ranks; but it was soon found that the soil of America was
opposed to a territorial aristocracy. To bring that refractory land into cultivation, the constant
and interested exertions of the owner himself were necessary; and when the ground was prepared,
its produce was found to be insufficient to enrich a master and a farmer at the same time.
The land was then naturally broken up into small portions, which the proprietor cultivated
for himself. Land is the basis of an aristocracy, which clings to the soil that supports it;
for it is not by privileges alone, nor by birth, but by landed property handed down from generation
to generation, that an aristocracy is constituted. A nation may present immense fortunes and
extreme wretchedness, but unless those fortunes are territorial there is no aristocracy, but
simply the class of the rich and that of the poor.

All the British colonies had then a great degree of similarity at the epoch of their settlement.
All of them, from their first beginning, seemed destined to witness the growth, not of the
aristocratic liberty of their mother-country, but of that freedom of the middle and lower orders
of which the history of the world had as yet furnished no complete example.

In this general uniformity several striking differences were however discernible, which it
is necessary to point out. Two branches may be distinguished in the Anglo-American family,
which have hitherto grown up without entirely commingling; the one in the South, the other
in the North.

Virginia received the first English colony; the emigrants took possession of it in 1607. The
idea that mines of gold and silver are the sources of national wealth was at that time singularly
prevalent in Europe; a fatal delusion, which has done more to impoverish the nations which
adopted it, and has cost more lives in America, than the united influence of war and bad laws.
The men sent to Virginia *a were seekers of gold, adventurers, without resources and without
character, whose turbulent and restless spirit endangered the infant colony, *b and rendered
its progress uncertain. The artisans and agriculturists arrived afterwards; and, although they
were a more moral and orderly race of men, they were in nowise above the level of the inferior
classes in England. *c No lofty conceptions, no intellectual system, directed the foundation
of these new settlements. The colony was scarcely established when slavery was introduced,
*d and this was the main circumstance which has exercised so prodigious an influence on the
character, the laws, and all the future prospects of the South. Slavery, as we shall afterwards
show, dishonors labor; it introduces idleness into society, and with idleness, ignorance and
pride, luxury and distress. It enervates the powers of the mind, and benumbs the activity of
man. The influence of slavery, united to the English character, explains the manners and the
social condition of the Southern States.

[Footnote a: The charter granted by the Crown of England in 1609 stipulated, amongst other
conditions, that the adventurers should pay to the Crown a fifth of the produce of all gold
and silver mines. See Marshall's "Life of Washington," vol. i. pp. 18-66.] [Footnote b: A large
portion of the adventurers, says Stith ("History of Virginia"), were unprincipled young men
of family, whom their parents were glad to ship off, discharged servants, fraudulent bankrupts,
or debauchees; and others of the same class, people more apt to pillage and destroy than to
assist the settlement, were the seditious chiefs, who easily led this band into every kind
of extravagance and excess. See for the history of Virginia the following works:--

"History of Virginia, from the First Settlements in the year 1624," by Smith.

"History of Virginia," by William Stith.

"History of Virginia, from the Earliest Period," by Beverley.]

[Footnote c: It was not till some time later that a certain number of rich English capitalists
came to fix themselves in the colony.]

[Footnote d: Slavery was introduced about the year 1620 by a Dutch vessel which landed twenty
negroes on the banks of the river James. See Chalmer.]

In the North, the same English foundation was modified by the most opposite shades of character;
and here I may be allowed to enter into some details. The two or three main ideas which constitute
the basis of the social theory of the United States were first combined in the Northern English
colonies, more generally denominated the States of New England. *e The principles of New England
spread at first to the neighboring states; they then passed successively to the more distant
ones; and at length they imbued the whole Confederation. They now extend their influence beyond
its limits over the whole American world.

[Footnote e: The States of New England are those situated to the east of the Hudson; they are
now six in number: 1, Connecticut; 2, Rhode Island; 3, Massachusetts; 4, Vermont; 5, New Hampshire;
6, Maine.]

The foundation of New England was a novel spectacle, and all the circumstances attending it
were singular and original. The large majority of colonies have been first inhabited either
by men without education and without resources, driven by their poverty and their misconduct
from the land which gave them birth, or by speculators and adventurers greedy of gain. Some
settlements cannot even boast so honorable an origin; St. Domingo was founded by buccaneers;
and the criminal courts of England originally supplied the population of Australia.

The settlers who established themselves on the shores of New England all belonged to the more
independent classes of their native country. Their union on the soil of America at once presented
the singular phenomenon of a society containing neither lords nor common people, neither rich
nor poor. These men possessed, in proportion to their number, a greater mass of intelligence
than is to be found in any European nation of our own time. All, without a single exception,
had received a good education, and many of them were known in Europe for their talents and
their acquirements. The other colonies had been founded by adventurers without family; the
emigrants of New England brought with them the best elements of order and morality--they landed
in the desert accompanied by their wives and children. But what most especially distinguished
them was the aim of their undertaking. They had not been obliged by necessity to leave their
country; the social position they abandoned was one to be regretted, and their means of subsistence
were certain. Nor did they cross the Atlantic to improve their situation or to increase their
wealth; the call which summoned them from the comforts of their homes was purely intellectual;
and in facing the inevitable sufferings of exile their object was the triumph of an idea.

The emigrants, or, as they deservedly styled themselves, the Pilgrims, belonged to that English
sect the austerity of whose principles had acquired for them the name of Puritans. Puritanism
was not merely a religious doctrine, but it corresponded in many points with the most absolute
democratic and republican theories. It was this tendency which had aroused its most dangerous
adversaries. Persecuted by the Government of the mother-country, and disgusted by the habits
of a society opposed to the rigor of their own principles, the Puritans went forth to seek
some rude and unfrequented part of the world, where they could live according to their own
opinions, and worship God in freedom.

A few quotations will throw more light upon the spirit of these pious adventures than all we
can say of them. Nathaniel Morton, *f the historian of the first years of the settlement, thus
opens his subject:

[Footnote f: "New England's Memorial," p. 13; Boston, 1826. See also "Hutchinson's History,"
vol. ii. p. 440.]

"Gentle Reader,--I have for some length of time looked upon it as a duty incumbent, especially
on the immediate successors of those that have had so large experience of those many memorable
and signal demonstrations of God's goodness, viz., the first beginners of this Plantation in
New England, to commit to writing his gracious dispensations on that behalf; having so many
inducements thereunto, not onely otherwise but so plentifully in the Sacred Scriptures: that
so, what we have seen, and what our fathers have told us (Psalm lxxviii. 8, 9). And not onely
so, but also that he hath guided his people by his strength to his holy habitation and planted
them in the mountain of his inheritance in respect of precious Gospel enjoyments: and that
as especially God may have the glory of all unto whom it is most due; so also some rays of
glory may reach the names of those blessed Saints that were the main instruments and the beginning
of this happy enterprise."

It is impossible to read this opening paragraph without an involuntary feeling of religious
awe; it breathes the very savor of Gospel antiquity. The sincerity of the author heightens
his power of language. The band which to his eyes was a mere party of adventurers gone forth
to seek their fortune beyond seas appears to the reader as the germ of a great nation wafted
by Providence to a predestined shore.

The author thus continues his narrative of the departure of the first pilgrims:--

"So they left that goodly and pleasant city of Leyden, *g which had been their resting-place
for above eleven years; but they knew that they were pilgrims and strangers here below, and
looked not much on these things, but lifted up their eyes to Heaven, their dearest country,
where God hath prepared for them a city (Heb. xi. 16), and therein quieted their spirits. When
they came to Delfs-Haven they found the ship and all things ready; and such of their friends
as could not come with them followed after them, and sundry came from Amsterdam to see them
shipt, and to take their leaves of them. One night was spent with little sleep with the most,
but with friendly entertainment and Christian discourse, and other real expressions of true
Christian love. The next day they went on board, and their friends with them, where truly doleful
was the sight of that sad and mournful parting, to hear what sighs and sobs and prayers did
sound amongst them; what tears did gush from every eye, and pithy speeches pierced each other's
heart, that sundry of the Dutch strangers that stood on the Key as spectators could not refrain
from tears. But the tide (which stays for no man) calling them away, that were thus loth to
depart, their Reverend Pastor falling down on his knees, and they all with him, with watery
cheeks commended them with most fervent prayers unto the Lord and his blessing; and then, with
mutual embraces and many tears they took their leaves one of another, which proved to be the
last leave to many of them."

[Footnote g: The emigrants were, for the most part, godly Christians from the North of England,
who had quitted their native country because they were "studious of reformation, and entered
into covenant to walk with one another according to the primitive pattern of the Word of God."
They emigrated to Holland, and settled in the city of Leyden in 1610, where they abode, being
lovingly respected by the Dutch, for many years: they left it in 1620 for several reasons,
the last of which was, that their posterity would in a few generations become Dutch, and so
lose their interest in the English nation; they being desirous rather to enlarge His Majesty's
dominions, and to live under their natural prince.--Translator's Note.]

The emigrants were about 150 in number, including the women and the children. Their object
was to plant a colony on the shores of the Hudson; but after having been driven about for some
time in the Atlantic Ocean, they were forced to land on that arid coast of New England which
is now the site of the town of Plymouth. The rock is still shown on which the pilgrims disembarked.
*h

[Footnote h: This rock is become an object of veneration in the United States. I have seen
bits of it carefully preserved in several towns of the Union. Does not this sufficiently show
how entirely all human power and greatness is in the soul of man? Here is a stone which the
feet of a few outcasts pressed for an instant, and this stone becomes famous; it is treasured
by a great nation, its very dust is shared as a relic: and what is become of the gateways of
a thousand palaces?]

"But before we pass on," continues our historian, "let the reader with me make a pause and
seriously consider this poor people's present condition, the more to be raised up to admiration
of God's goodness towards them in their preservation: for being now passed the vast ocean,
and a sea of troubles before them in expectation, they had now no friends to welcome them,
no inns to entertain or refresh them, no houses, or much less towns to repair unto to seek
for succour: and for the season it was winter, and they that know the winters of the country
know them to be sharp and violent, subject to cruel and fierce storms, dangerous to travel
to known places, much more to search unknown coasts. Besides, what could they see but a hideous
and desolate wilderness, full of wilde beasts, and wilde men? and what multitudes of them there
were, they then knew not: for which way soever they turned their eyes (save upward to Heaven)
they could have but little solace or content in respect of any outward object; for summer being
ended, all things stand in appearance with a weather-beaten face, and the whole country full
of woods and thickets, represented a wild and savage hew; if they looked behind them, there
was the mighty ocean which they had passed, and was now as a main bar or gulph to separate
them from all the civil parts of the world."

It must not be imagined that the piety of the Puritans was of a merely speculative kind, or
that it took no cognizance of the course of worldly affairs. Puritanism, as I have already
remarked, was scarcely less a political than a religious doctrine. See "Pitkin's History,"
pp. 42 and 47.]

This happened in 1620, and from that time forwards the emigration went on. The religious and
political passions which ravaged the British Empire during the whole reign of Charles I drove
fresh crowds of sectarians every year to the shores of America. In England the stronghold of
Puritanism was in the middle classes, and it was from the middle classes that the majority
of the emigrants came. The population of New England increased rapidly; and whilst the hierarchy
of rank despotically classed the inhabitants of the mother-country, the colony continued to
present the novel spectacle of a community homogeneous in all its parts. A democracy, more
perfect than any which antiquity had dreamt of, started in full size and panoply from the midst
of an ancient feudal society.

Chapter II: Origin Of The Anglo-Americans--Part II

The English Government was not dissatisfied with an emigration which removed the elements of
fresh discord and of further revolutions. On the contrary, everything was done to encourage
it, and great exertions were made to mitigate the hardships of those who sought a shelter from
the rigor of their country's laws on the soil of America. It seemed as if New England was a
region given up to the dreams of fancy and the unrestrained experiments of innovators.

The English colonies (and this is one of the main causes of their prosperity) have always enjoyed
more internal freedom and more political independence than the colonies of other nations; but
this principle of liberty was nowhere more extensively applied than in the States of New England.

It was generally allowed at that period that the territories of the New World belonged to that
European nation which had been the first to discover them. Nearly the whole coast of North
America thus became a British possession towards the end of the sixteenth century. The means
used by the English Government to people these new domains were of several kinds; the King
sometimes appointed a governor of his own choice, who ruled a portion of the New World in the
name and under the immediate orders of the Crown; *j this is the colonial system adopted by
other countries of Europe. Sometimes grants of certain tracts were made by the Crown to an
individual or to a company, *k in which case all the civil and political power fell into the
hands of one or more persons, who, under the inspection and control of the Crown, sold the
lands and governed the inhabitants. Lastly, a third system consisted in allowing a certain
number of emigrants to constitute a political society under the protection of the mother-country,
and to govern themselves in whatever was not contrary to her laws. This mode of colonization,
so remarkably favorable to liberty, was only adopted in New England. *l

[Footnote j: This was the case in the State of New York.]

[Footnote k: Maryland, the Carolinas, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey were in this situation.
Philadelphia, 1792," for a great number of documents relating to the commencement of the colonies,
which are valuable from their contents and their authenticity: amongst them are the various
charters granted by the King of England, and the first acts of the local governments.

See also the analysis of all these charters given by Mr. Story, Judge of the Supreme Court
of the United States, in the Introduction to his "Commentary on the Constitution of the United
States." It results from these documents that the principles of representative government and
the external forms of political liberty were introduced into all the colonies at their origin.
These principles were more fully acted upon in the North than in the South, but they existed
everywhere.]

In 1628 *m a charter of this kind was granted by Charles I to the emigrants who went to form
the colony of Massachusetts. But, in general, charters were not given to the colonies of New
England till they had acquired a certain existence. Plymouth, Providence, New Haven, the State
of Connecticut, and that of Rhode Island *n were founded without the co-operation and almost
without the knowledge of the mother-country. The new settlers did not derive their incorporation
from the seat of the empire, although they did not deny its supremacy; they constituted a society
of their own accord, and it was not till thirty or forty years afterwards, under Charles II.
that their existence was legally recognized by a royal charter.

[Footnote m: See "Pitkin's History," p, 35. See the "History of the Colony of Massachusetts
Bay," by Hutchinson, vol. i. p. 9.] [Footnote n: See "Pitkin's History," pp. 42, 47.]

This frequently renders its it difficult to detect the link which connected the emigrants with
the land of their forefathers in studying the earliest historical and legislative records of
New England. They exercised the rights of sovereignty; they named their magistrates, concluded
peace or declared war, made police regulations, and enacted laws as if their allegiance was
due only to God. *o Nothing can be more curious and, at the same time more instructive, than
the legislation of that period; it is there that the solution of the great social problem which
the United States now present to the world is to be found.

[Footnote o: The inhabitants of Massachusetts had deviated from the forms which are preserved
in the criminal and civil procedure of England; in 1650 the decrees of justice were not yet
headed by the royal style. See Hutchinson, vol. i. p. 452.]

Amongst these documents we shall notice, as especially characteristic, the code of laws promulgated
by the little State of Connecticut in 1650. *p The legislators of Connecticut *q begin with
the penal laws, and, strange to say, they borrow their provisions from the text of Holy Writ.
"Whosoever shall worship any other God than the Lord," says the preamble of the Code, "shall
surely be put to death." This is followed by ten or twelve enactments of the same kind, copied
verbatim from the books of Exodus, Leviticus, and Deuteronomy. Blasphemy, sorcery, adultery,
*r and rape were punished with death; an outrage offered by a son to his parents was to be
expiated by the same penalty. The legislation of a rude and half-civilized people was thus
applied to an enlightened and moral community. The consequence was that the punishment of death
was never more frequently prescribed by the statute, and never more rarely enforced towards
the guilty.

[Footnote p: Code of 1650, p. 28; Hartford, 1830.]

[Footnote q: See also in "Hutchinson's History," vol. i. pp. 435, 456, the analysis of the
penal code adopted in 1648 by the Colony of Massachusetts: this code is drawn up on the same
principles as that of Connecticut.]

[Footnote r: Adultery was also punished with death by the law of Massachusetts: and Hutchinson,
vol. i. p. 441, says that several persons actually suffered for this crime. He quotes a curious
anecdote on this subject, which occurred in the year 1663. A married woman had had criminal
intercourse with a young man; her husband died, and she married the lover. Several years had
elapsed, when the public began to suspect the previous intercourse of this couple: they were
thrown into prison, put upon trial, and very narrowly escaped capital punishment.]

The chief care of the legislators, in this body of penal laws, was the maintenance of orderly
conduct and good morals in the community: they constantly invaded the domain of conscience,
and there was scarcely a sin which was not subject to magisterial censure. The reader is aware
of the rigor with which these laws punished rape and adultery; intercourse between unmarried
persons was likewise severely repressed. The judge was empowered to inflict a pecuniary penalty,
a whipping, or marriage *s on the misdemeanants; and if the records of the old courts of New
Haven may be believed, prosecutions of this kind were not unfrequent. We find a sentence bearing
date the first of May, 1660, inflicting a fine and reprimand on a young woman who was accused
of using improper language, and of allowing herself to be kissed. *t The Code of 1650 abounds
in preventive measures. It punishes idleness and drunkenness with severity. *u Innkeepers are
forbidden to furnish more than a certain quantity of liquor to each consumer; and simple lying,
whenever it may be injurious, *v is checked by a fine or a flogging. In other places, the legislator,
entirely forgetting the great principles of religious toleration which he had himself upheld
in Europe, renders attendance on divine service compulsory, *w and goes so far as to visit
with severe punishment, ** and even with death, the Christians who chose to worship God according
to a ritual differing from his own. *x Sometimes indeed the zeal of his enactments induces
him to descend to the most frivolous particulars: thus a law is to be found in the same Code
which prohibits the use of tobacco. *y It must not be forgotten that these fantastical and
vexatious laws were not imposed by authority, but that they were freely voted by all the persons
interested, and that the manners of the community were even more austere and more puritanical
than the laws. In 1649 a solemn association was formed in Boston to check the worldly luxury
of long hair. *z

[Footnote s: Code of 1650, p. 48. It seems sometimes to have happened that the judges superadded
these punishments to each other, as is seen in a sentence pronounced in 1643 (p. 114, "New
Haven Antiquities"), by which Margaret Bedford, convicted of loose conduct, was condemned to
be whipped, and afterwards to marry Nicholas Jemmings, her accomplice.]

[Footnote t: "New Haven Antiquities," p. 104. See also "Hutchinson's History," for several
causes equally extraordinary.]

[Footnote u: Code of 1650, pp. 50, 57.]

[Footnote v: Ibid., p. 64.]

[Footnote w: Ibid., p. 44.]

[Footnote *: This was not peculiar to Connecticut. See, for instance, the law which, on September
13, 1644, banished the Anabaptists from the State of Massachusetts. ("Historical Collection
of State Papers," vol. i. p. 538.) See also the law against the Quakers, passed on October
14, 1656: "Whereas," says the preamble, "an accursed race of heretics called Quakers has sprung
up," etc. The clauses of the statute inflict a heavy fine on all captains of ships who should
import Quakers into the country. The Quakers who may be found there shall be whipped and imprisoned
with hard labor. Those members of the sect who should defend their opinions shall be first
fined, then imprisoned, and finally driven out of the province.--"Historical Collection of
State Papers," vol. i. p. 630.]

[Footnote x: By the penal law of Massachusetts, any Catholic priest who should set foot in
the colony after having been once driven out of it was liable to capital punishment.]

[Footnote y: Code of 1650, p. 96.]

[Footnote z: "New England's Memorial," p. 316. See Appendix, E.]

These errors are no doubt discreditable to human reason; they attest the inferiority of our
nature, which is incapable of laying firm hold upon what is true and just, and is often reduced
to the alternative of two excesses. In strict connection with this penal legislation, which
bears such striking marks of a narrow sectarian spirit, and of those religious passions which
had been warmed by persecution and were still fermenting among the people, a body of political
laws is to be found, which, though written two hundred years ago, is still ahead of the liberties
of our age. The general principles which are the groundwork of modern constitutions--principles
which were imperfectly known in Europe, and not completely triumphant even in Great Britain,
in the seventeenth century--were all recognized and determined by the laws of New England:
the intervention of the people in public affairs, the free voting of taxes, the responsibility
of authorities, personal liberty, and trial by jury, were all positively established without
discussion. From these fruitful principles consequences have been derived and applications
have been made such as no nation in Europe has yet ventured to attempt.

In Connecticut the electoral body consisted, from its origin, of the whole number of citizens;
and this is readily to be understood, *a when we recollect that this people enjoyed an almost
perfect equality of fortune, and a still greater uniformity of opinions. *b In Connecticut,
at this period, all the executive functionaries were elected, including the Governor of the
State. *c The citizens above the age of sixteen were obliged to bear arms; they formed a national
militia, which appointed its own officers, and was to hold itself at all times in readiness
to march for the defence of the country. *d

[Footnote a: Constitution of 1638, p. 17.]

[Footnote b: In 1641 the General Assembly of Rhode Island unanimously declared that the government
of the State was a democracy, and that the power was vested in the body of free citizens, who
alone had the right to make the laws and to watch their execution.--Code of 1650, p. 70.]

[Footnote c: "Pitkin's History," p. 47.]

[Footnote d: Constitution of 1638, p. 12.]

In the laws of Connecticut, as well as in all those of New England, we find the germ and gradual
development of that township independence which is the life and mainspring of American liberty
at the present day. The political existence of the majority of the nations of Europe commenced
in the superior ranks of society, and was gradually and imperfectly communicated to the different
members of the social body. In America, on the other hand, it may be said that the township
was organized before the county, the county before the State, the State before the Union. In
New England townships were completely and definitively constituted as early as 1650. The independence
of the township was the nucleus round which the local interests, passions, rights, and duties
collected and clung. It gave scope to the activity of a real political life most thoroughly
democratic and republican. The colonies still recognized the supremacy of the mother-country;
monarchy was still the law of the State; but the republic was already established in every
township. The towns named their own magistrates of every kind, rated themselves, and levied
their own taxes. *e In the parish of New England the law of representation was not adopted,
but the affairs of the community were discussed, as at Athens, in the market-place, by a general
assembly of the citizens.

[Footnote e: Code of 1650, p. 80.]

In studying the laws which were promulgated at this first era of the American republics, it
is impossible not to be struck by the remarkable acquaintance with the science of government
and the advanced theory of legislation which they display. The ideas there formed of the duties
of society towards its members are evidently much loftier and more comprehensive than those
of the European legislators at that time: obligations were there imposed which were elsewhere
slighted. In the States of New England, from the first, the condition of the poor was provided
for; *f strict measures were taken for the maintenance of roads, and surveyors were appointed
to attend to them; *g registers were established in every parish, in which the results of public
deliberations, and the births, deaths, and marriages of the citizens were entered; *h clerks
were directed to keep these registers; *i officers were charged with the administration of
vacant inheritances, and with the arbitration of litigated landmarks; and many others were
created whose chief functions were the maintenance of public order in the community. *j The
law enters into a thousand useful provisions for a number of social wants which are at present
very inadequately felt in France. [Footnote f: Ibid., p. 78.]

[Footnote g: Ibid., p. 49.]

[Footnote h: See "Hutchinson's History," vol. i. p. 455.]

[Footnote i: Code of 1650, p. 86.]

[Footnote j: Ibid., p. 40.]

But it is by the attention it pays to Public Education that the original character of American
civilization is at once placed in the clearest light. *k Here follow clauses establishing schools
in every township, and obliging the inhabitants, under pain of heavy fines, to support them.
Schools of a superior kind were founded in the same manner in the more populous districts.
The municipal authorities were bound to enforce the sending of children to school by their
parents; they were empowered to inflict fines upon all who refused compliance; and in case
of continued resistance society assumed the place of the parent, took possession of the child,
and deprived the father of those natural rights which he used to so bad a purpose. The reader
will undoubtedly have remarked the preamble of these enactments: in America religion is the
road to knowledge, and the observance of the divine laws leads man to civil freedom.

[Footnote k: Ibid., p. 90.]

If, after having cast a rapid glance over the state of American society in 1650, we turn to
the condition of Europe, and more especially to that of the Continent, at the same period,
we cannot fail to be struck with astonishment. On the Continent of Europe, at the beginning
of the seventeenth century, absolute monarchy had everywhere triumphed over the ruins of the
oligarchical and feudal liberties of the Middle Ages. Never were the notions of right more
completely confounded than in the midst of the splendor and literature of Europe; never was
there less political activity among the people; never were the principles of true freedom less
widely circulated; and at that very time those principles, which were scorned or unknown by
the nations of Europe, were proclaimed in the deserts of the New World, and were accepted as
the future creed of a great people. The boldest theories of the human reason were put into
practice by a community so humble that not a statesman condescended to attend to it; and a
legislation without a precedent was produced offhand by the imagination of the citizens. In
the bosom of this obscure democracy, which had as yet brought forth neither generals, nor philosophers,
nor authors, a man might stand up in the face of a free people and pronounce the following
fine definition of liberty. *l

[Footnote l: Mather's "Magnalia Christi Americana," vol. ii. p. 13. This speech was made by
Winthrop; he was accused of having committed arbitrary actions during his magistracy, but after
having made the speech of which the above is a fragment, he was acquitted by acclamation, and
from that time forwards he was always re-elected governor of the State. See Marshal, vol. i.
p. 166.]

"Nor would I have you to mistake in the point of your own liberty. There is a liberty of a
corrupt nature which is effected both by men and beasts to do what they list, and this liberty
is inconsistent with authority, impatient of all restraint; by this liberty 'sumus omnes deteriores':
'tis the grand enemy of truth and peace, and all the ordinances of God are bent against it.
But there is a civil, a moral, a federal liberty which is the proper end and object of authority;
it is a liberty for that only which is just and good: for this liberty you are to stand with
the hazard of your very lives and whatsoever crosses it is not authority, but a distemper thereof.
This liberty is maintained in a way of subjection to authority; and the authority set over
you will, in all administrations for your good, be quietly submitted unto by all but such as
have a disposition to shake off the yoke and lose their true liberty, by their murmuring at
the honor and power of authority."

The remarks I have made will suffice to display the character of Anglo-American civilization
in its true light. It is the result (and this should be constantly present to the mind of two
distinct elements), which in other places have been in frequent hostility, but which in America
have been admirably incorporated and combined with one another. I allude to the spirit of Religion
and the spirit of Liberty.

The settlers of New England were at the same time ardent sectarians and daring innovators.
Narrow as the limits of some of their religious opinions were, they were entirely free from
political prejudices. Hence arose two tendencies, distinct but not opposite, which are constantly
discernible in the manners as well as in the laws of the country.

It might be imagined that men who sacrificed their friends, their family, and their native
land to a religious conviction were absorbed in the pursuit of the intellectual advantages
which they purchased at so dear a rate. The energy, however, with which they strove for the
acquirement of wealth, moral enjoyment, and the comforts as well as liberties of the world,
is scarcely inferior to that with which they devoted themselves to Heaven.

Political principles and all human laws and institutions were moulded and altered at their
pleasure; the barriers of the society in which they were born were broken down before them;
the old principles which had governed the world for ages were no more; a path without a turn
and a field without an horizon were opened to the exploring and ardent curiosity of man: but
at the limits of the political world he checks his researches, he discreetly lays aside the
use of his most formidable faculties, he no longer consents to doubt or to innovate, but carefully
abstaining from raising the curtain of the sanctuary, he yields with submissive respect to
truths which he will not discuss. Thus, in the moral world everything is classed, adapted,
decided, and foreseen; in the political world everything is agitated, uncertain, and disputed:
in the one is a passive, though a voluntary, obedience; in the other an independence scornful
of experience and jealous of authority.

These two tendencies, apparently so discrepant, are far from conflicting; they advance together,
and mutually support each other. Religion perceives that civil liberty affords a noble exercise
to the faculties of man, and that the political world is a field prepared by the Creator for
the efforts of the intelligence. Contented with the freedom and the power which it enjoys in
its own sphere, and with the place which it occupies, the empire of religion is never more
surely established than when it reigns in the hearts of men unsupported by aught beside its
native strength. Religion is no less the companion of liberty in all its battles and its triumphs;
the cradle of its infancy, and the divine source of its claims. The safeguard of morality is
religion, and morality is the best security of law and the surest pledge of freedom. *m

[Footnote m: See Appendix, F.]

Reasons Of Certain Anomalies Which The Laws And Customs Of The Anglo-Americans Present

Remains of aristocratic institutions in the midst of a complete democracy--Why?--Distinction
carefully to be drawn between what is of Puritanical and what is of English origin.

The reader is cautioned not to draw too general or too absolute an inference from what has
been said. The social condition, the religion, and the manners of the first emigrants undoubtedly
exercised an immense influence on the destiny of their new country. Nevertheless they were
not in a situation to found a state of things solely dependent on themselves: no man can entirely
shake off the influence of the past, and the settlers, intentionally or involuntarily, mingled
habits and notions derived from their education and from the traditions of their country with
those habits and notions which were exclusively their own. To form a judgment on the Anglo-Americans
of the present day it is therefore necessary to distinguish what is of Puritanical and what
is of English origin.

Laws and customs are frequently to be met with in the United States which contrast strongly
with all that surrounds them. These laws seem to be drawn up in a spirit contrary to the prevailing
tenor of the American legislation; and these customs are no less opposed to the tone of society.
If the English colonies had been founded in an age of darkness, or if their origin was already
lost in the lapse of years, the problem would be insoluble.

I shall quote a single example to illustrate what I advance. The civil and criminal procedure
of the Americans has only two means of action--committal and bail. The first measure taken
by the magistrate is to exact security from the defendant, or, in case of refusal, to incarcerate
him: the ground of the accusation and the importance of the charges against him are then discussed.
It is evident that a legislation of this kind is hostile to the poor man, and favorable only
to the rich. The poor man has not always a security to produce, even in a civil cause; and
if he is obliged to wait for justice in prison, he is speedily reduced to distress. The wealthy
individual, on the contrary, always escapes imprisonment in civil causes; nay, more, he may
readily elude the punishment which awaits him for a delinquency by breaking his bail. So that
all the penalties of the law are, for him, reducible to fines. *n Nothing can be more aristocratic
than this system of legislation. Yet in America it is the poor who make the law, and they usually
reserve the greatest social advantages to themselves. The explanation of the phenomenon is
to be found in England; the laws of which I speak are English, *o and the Americans have retained
them, however repugnant they may be to the tenor of their legislation and the mass of their
ideas. Next to its habits, the thing which a nation is least apt to change is its civil legislation.
Civil laws are only familiarly known to legal men, whose direct interest it is to maintain
them as they are, whether good or bad, simply because they themselves are conversant with them.
The body of the nation is scarcely acquainted with them; it merely perceives their action in
particular cases; but it has some difficulty in seizing their tendency, and obeys them without
premeditation. I have quoted one instance where it would have been easy to adduce a great number
of others.

[Footnote n: Crimes no doubt exist for which bail is inadmissible, but they are few in number.]

[Footnote o: See Blackstone; and Delolme, book I chap. x.]

Chapter III: Social Conditions Of The Anglo-Americans

Chapter Summary

A Social condition is commonly the result of circumstances, sometimes of laws, oftener still
of these two causes united; but wherever it exists, it may justly be considered as the source
of almost all the laws, the usages, and the ideas which regulate the conduct of nations; whatever
it does not produce it modifies. It is therefore necessary, if we would become acquainted with
the legislation and the manners of a nation, to begin by the study of its social condition.

The Striking Characteristic Of The Social Condition Of The Anglo-Americans In Its Essential
Democracy.

The first emigrants of New England--Their equality--Aristocratic laws introduced in the South--Period
of the Revolution--Change in the law of descent--Effects produced by this change--Democracy
carried to its utmost limits in the new States of the West--Equality of education.

Many important observations suggest themselves upon the social condition of the Anglo-Americans,
but there is one which takes precedence of all the rest. The social condition of the Americans
is eminently democratic; this was its character at the foundation of the Colonies, and is still
more strongly marked at the present day. I have stated in the preceding chapter that great
equality existed among the emigrants who settled on the shores of New England. The germ of
aristocracy was never planted in that part of the Union. The only influence which obtained
there was that of intellect; the people were used to reverence certain names as the emblems
of knowledge and virtue. Some of their fellow-citizens acquired a power over the rest which
might truly have been called aristocratic, if it had been capable of transmission from father
to son.

This was the state of things to the east of the Hudson: to the south-west of that river, and
in the direction of the Floridas, the case was different. In most of the States situated to
the south-west of the Hudson some great English proprietors had settled, who had imported with
them aristocratic principles and the English law of descent. I have explained the reasons why
it was impossible ever to establish a powerful aristocracy in America; these reasons existed
with less force to the south-west of the Hudson. In the South, one man, aided by slaves, could
cultivate a great extent of country: it was therefore common to see rich landed proprietors.
But their influence was not altogether aristocratic as that term is understood in Europe, since
they possessed no privileges; and the cultivation of their estates being carried on by slaves,
they had no tenants depending on them, and consequently no patronage. Still, the great proprietors
south of the Hudson constituted a superior class, having ideas and tastes of its own, and forming
the centre of political action. This kind of aristocracy sympathized with the body of the people,
whose passions and interests it easily embraced; but it was too weak and too short-lived to
excite either love or hatred for itself. This was the class which headed the insurrection in
the South, and furnished the best leaders of the American revolution.

At the period of which we are now speaking society was shaken to its centre: the people, in
whose name the struggle had taken place, conceived the desire of exercising the authority which
it had acquired; its democratic tendencies were awakened; and having thrown off the yoke of
the mother-country, it aspired to independence of every kind. The influence of individuals
gradually ceased to be felt, and custom and law united together to produce the same result.

But the law of descent was the last step to equality. I am surprised that ancient and modern
jurists have not attributed to this law a greater influence on human affairs. *a It is true
that these laws belong to civil affairs; but they ought nevertheless to be placed at the head
of all political institutions; for, whilst political laws are only the symbol of a nation's
condition, they exercise an incredible influence upon its social state. They have, moreover,
a sure and uniform manner of operating upon society, affecting, as it were, generations yet unborn.

[Footnote a: I understand by the law of descent all those laws whose principal object is to
regulate the distribution of property after the death of its owner. The law of entail is of
this number; it certainly prevents the owner from disposing of his possessions before his death;
but this is solely with the view of preserving them entire for the heir. The principal object,
therefore, of the law of entail is to regulate the descent of property after the death of its
owner: its other provisions are merely means to this end.]

Through their means man acquires a kind of preternatural power over the future lot of his fellow-creatures.
When the legislator has regulated the law of inheritance, he may rest from his labor. The machine
once put in motion will go on for ages, and advance, as if self-guided, towards a given point.
When framed in a particular manner, this law unites, draws together, and vests property and
power in a few hands: its tendency is clearly aristocratic. On opposite principles its action
is still more rapid; it divides, distributes, and disperses both property and power. Alarmed
by the rapidity of its progress, those who despair of arresting its motion endeavor to obstruct
it by difficulties and impediments; they vainly seek to counteract its effect by contrary efforts;
but it gradually reduces or destroys every obstacle, until by its incessant activity the bulwarks
of the influence of wealth are ground down to the fine and shifting sand which is the basis
of democracy. When the law of inheritance permits, still more when it decrees, the equal division
of a father's property amongst all his children, its effects are of two kinds: it is important
to distinguish them from each other, although they tend to the same end.

In virtue of the law of partible inheritance, the death of every proprietor brings about a
kind of revolution in property; not only do his possessions change hands, but their very nature
is altered, since they are parcelled into shares, which become smaller and smaller at each
division. This is the direct and, as it were, the physical effect of the law. It follows, then,
that in countries where equality of inheritance is established by law, property, and especially
landed property, must have a tendency to perpetual diminution. The effects, however, of such
legislation would only be perceptible after a lapse of time, if the law was abandoned to its
own working; for supposing the family to consist of two children (and in a country people as
France is the average number is not above three), these children, sharing amongst them the
fortune of both parents, would not be poorer than their father or mother.

But the law of equal division exercises its influence not merely upon the property itself,
but it affects the minds of the heirs, and brings their passions into play. These indirect
consequences tend powerfully to the destruction of large fortunes, and especially of large
domains. Among nations whose law of descent is founded upon the right of primogeniture landed
estates often pass from generation to generation without undergoing division, the consequence
of which is that family feeling is to a certain degree incorporated with the estate. The family
represents the estate, the estate the family; whose name, together with its origin, its glory,
its power, and its virtues, is thus perpetuated in an imperishable memorial of the past and
a sure pledge of the future.

When the equal partition of property is established by law, the intimate connection is destroyed
between family feeling and the preservation of the paternal estate; the property ceases to
represent the family; for as it must inevitably be divided after one or two generations, it
has evidently a constant tendency to diminish, and must in the end be completely dispersed.
The sons of the great landed proprietor, if they are few in number, or if fortune befriends
them, may indeed entertain the hope of being as wealthy as their father, but not that of possessing
the same property as he did; the riches must necessarily be composed of elements different
from his.

Now, from the moment that you divest the landowner of that interest in the preservation of
his estate which he derives from association, from tradition, and from family pride, you may
be certain that sooner or later he will dispose of it; for there is a strong pecuniary interest
in favor of selling, as floating capital produces higher interest than real property, and is
more readily available to gratify the passions of the moment.

Great landed estates which have once been divided never come together again; for the small
proprietor draws from his land a better revenue, in proportion, than the large owner does from
his, and of course he sells it at a higher rate. *b The calculations of gain, therefore, which
decide the rich man to sell his domain will still more powerfully influence him against buying
small estates to unite them into a large one.

[Footnote b: I do not mean to say that the small proprietor cultivates his land better, but
he cultivates it with more ardor and care; so that he makes up by his labor for his want of skill.]

What is called family pride is often founded upon an illusion of self-love. A man wishes to
perpetuate and immortalize himself, as it were, in his great-grandchildren. Where the esprit
de famille ceases to act individual selfishness comes into play. When the idea of family becomes
vague, indeterminate, and uncertain, a man thinks of his present convenience; he provides for
the establishment of his succeeding generation, and no more. Either a man gives up the idea
of perpetuating his family, or at any rate he seeks to accomplish it by other means than that
of a landed estate. Thus not only does the law of partible inheritance render it difficult
for families to preserve their ancestral domains entire, but it deprives them of the inclination
to attempt it, and compels them in some measure to co-operate with the law in their own extinction.

The law of equal distribution proceeds by two methods: by acting upon things, it acts upon
persons; by influencing persons, it affects things. By these means the law succeeds in striking
at the root of landed property, and dispersing rapidly both families and fortunes. *c

[Footnote c: Land being the most stable kind of property, we find, from time to time, rich
individuals who are disposed to make great sacrifices in order to obtain it, and who willingly
forfeit a considerable part of their income to make sure of the rest. But these are accidental
cases. The preference for landed property is no longer found habitually in any class but among
the poor. The small landowner, who has less information, less imagination, and fewer passions
than the great one, is generally occupied with the desire of increasing his estate: and it
often happens that by inheritance, by marriage, or by the chances of trade, he is gradually
furnished with the means. Thus, to balance the tendency which leads men to divide their estates,
there exists another, which incites them to add to them. This tendency, which is sufficient
to prevent estates from being divided ad infinitum, is not strong enough to create great territorial
possessions, certainly not to keep them up in the same family.]

Most certainly it is not for us Frenchmen of the nineteenth century, who daily witness the
political and social changes which the law of partition is bringing to pass, to question its
influence. It is perpetually conspicuous in our country, overthrowing the walls of our dwellings
and removing the landmarks of our fields. But although it has produced great effects in France,
much still remains for it to do. Our recollections, opinions, and habits present powerful obstacles
to its progress.

In the United States it has nearly completed its work of destruction, and there we can best
study its results. The English laws concerning the transmission of property were abolished
in almost all the States at the time of the Revolution. The law of entail was so modified as
not to interrupt the free circulation of property. *d The first generation having passed away,
estates began to be parcelled out, and the change became more and more rapid with the progress
of time. At this moment, after a lapse of a little more than sixty years, the aspect of society
is totally altered; the families of the great landed proprietors are almost all commingled
with the general mass. In the State of New York, which formerly contained many of these, there
are but two who still keep their heads above the stream, and they must shortly disappear. The
sons of these opulent citizens are become merchants, lawyers, or physicians. Most of them have
lapsed into obscurity. The last trace of hereditary ranks and distinctions is destroyed--the
law of partition has reduced all to one level. [Footnote d: See Appendix, G.]

I do not mean that there is any deficiency of wealthy individuals in the United States; I know
of no country, indeed, where the love of money has taken stronger hold on the affections of
men, and where the profounder contempt is expressed for the theory of the permanent equality
of property. But wealth circulates with inconceivable rapidity, and experience shows that it
is rare to find two succeeding generations in the full enjoyment of it.

This picture, which may perhaps be thought to be overcharged, still gives a very imperfect
idea of what is taking place in the new States of the West and South-west. At the end of the
last century a few bold adventurers began to penetrate into the valleys of the Mississippi,
and the mass of the population very soon began to move in that direction: communities unheard
of till then were seen to emerge from the wilds: States whose names were not in existence a
few years before claimed their place in the American Union; and in the Western settlements
we may behold democracy arrived at its utmost extreme. In these States, founded off-hand, and,
as it were, by chance, the inhabitants are but of yesterday. Scarcely known to one another,
the nearest neighbors are ignorant of each other's history. In this part of the American continent,
therefore, the population has not experienced the influence of great names and great wealth,
nor even that of the natural aristocracy of knowledge and virtue. None are there to wield that
respectable power which men willingly grant to the remembrance of a life spent in doing good
before their eyes. The new States of the West are already inhabited, but society has no existence
among them. *e

[Footnote e: This may have been true in 1832, but is not so in 1874, when great cities like
Chicago and San Francisco have sprung up in the Western States. But as yet the Western States
exert no powerful influence on American society.---Translator's Note.]

It is not only the fortunes of men which are equal in America; even their requirements partake
in some degree of the same uniformity. I do not believe that there is a country in the world
where, in proportion to the population, there are so few uninstructed and at the same time
so few learned individuals. Primary instruction is within the reach of everybody; superior
instruction is scarcely to be obtained by any. This is not surprising; it is in fact the necessary
consequence of what we have advanced above. Almost all the Americans are in easy circumstances,
and can therefore obtain the first elements of human knowledge.

In America there are comparatively few who are rich enough to live without a profession. Every
profession requires an apprenticeship, which limits the time of instruction to the early years
of life. At fifteen they enter upon their calling, and thus their education ends at the age
when ours begins. Whatever is done afterwards is with a view to some special and lucrative
object; a science is taken up as a matter of business, and the only branch of it which is attended
to is such as admits of an immediate practical application. In America most of the rich men
were formerly poor; most of those who now enjoy leisure were absorbed in business during their
youth; the consequence of which is, that when they might have had a taste for study they had
no time for it, and when time is at their disposal they have no longer the inclination.

There is no class, then, in America, in which the taste for intellectual pleasures is transmitted
with hereditary fortune and leisure, and by which the labors of the intellect are held in honor.
Accordingly there is an equal want of the desire and the power of application to these objects.

A middle standard is fixed in America for human knowledge. All approach as near to it as they
can; some as they rise, others as they descend. Of course, an immense multitude of persons
are to be found who entertain the same number of ideas on religion, history, science, political
economy, legislation, and government. The gifts of intellect proceed directly from God, and
man cannot prevent their unequal distribution. But in consequence of the state of things which
we have here represented it happens that, although the capacities of men are widely different,
as the Creator has doubtless intended they should be, they are submitted to the same method
of treatment.

In America the aristocratic element has always been feeble from its birth; and if at the present
day it is not actually destroyed, it is at any rate so completely disabled that we can scarcely
assign to it any degree of influence in the course of affairs. The democratic principle, on
the contrary, has gained so much strength by time, by events, and by legislation, as to have
become not only predominant but all-powerful. There is no family or corporate authority, and
it is rare to find even the influence of individual character enjoy any durability.

America, then, exhibits in her social state a most extraordinary phenomenon. Men are there
seen on a greater equality in point of fortune and intellect, or, in other words, more equal
in their strength, than in any other country of the world, or in any age of which history has
preserved the remembrance.

Political Consequences Of The Social Condition Of The Anglo-Americans

The political consequences of such a social condition as this are easily deducible. It is impossible
to believe that equality will not eventually find its way into the political world as it does
everywhere else. To conceive of men remaining forever unequal upon one single point, yet equal
on all others, is impossible; they must come in the end to be equal upon all. Now I know of
only two methods of establishing equality in the political world; every citizen must be put
in possession of his rights, or rights must be granted to no one. For nations which are arrived
at the same stage of social existence as the Anglo-Americans, it is therefore very difficult
to discover a medium between the sovereignty of all and the absolute power of one man: and
it would be vain to deny that the social condition which I have been describing is equally
liable to each of these consequences.

There is, in fact, a manly and lawful passion for equality which excites men to wish all to
be powerful and honored. Not that those nations whose social condition is democratic naturally
despise liberty; on the contrary, they have an instinctive love of it. But liberty is not the
chief and constant object of their desires; equality is their idol: they make rapid and sudden
efforts to obtain liberty, and if they miss their aim resign themselves to their disappointment;
but nothing can satisfy them except equality, and rather than lose it they resolve to perish.

On the other hand, in a State where the citizens are nearly on an equality, it becomes difficult
for them to preserve their independence against the aggressions of power. No one among them
being strong enough to engage in the struggle with advantage, nothing but a general combination
can protect their liberty. And such a union is not always to be found.

From the same social position, then, nations may derive one or the other of two great political
results; these results are extremely different from each other, but they may both proceed from
the same cause.

The Anglo-Americans are the first nations who, having been exposed to this formidable alternative,
have been happy enough to escape the dominion of absolute power. They have been allowed by
their circumstances, their origin, their intelligence, and especially by their moral feeling,
to establish and maintain the sovereignty of the people.

Chapter IV: The Principle Of The Sovereignty Of The People In America

Chapter Summary

It predominates over the whole of society in America--Application made of this principle by
the Americans even before their Revolution--Development given to it by that Revolution--Gradual
and irresistible extension of the elective qualification.

The Principle Of The Sovereignty Of The People In America

Whenever the political laws of the United States are to be discussed, it is with the doctrine
of the sovereignty of the people that we must begin. The principle of the sovereignty of the
people, which is to be found, more or less, at the bottom of almost all human institutions,
generally remains concealed from view. It is obeyed without being recognized, or if for a moment
it be brought to light, it is hastily cast back into the gloom of the sanctuary. "The will
of the nation" is one of those expressions which have been most profusely abused by the wily
and the despotic of every age. To the eyes of some it has been represented by the venal suffrages
of a few of the satellites of power; to others by the votes of a timid or an interested minority;
and some have even discovered it in the silence of a people, on the supposition that the fact
of submission established the right of command.

In America the principle of the sovereignty of the people is not either barren or concealed,
as it is with some other nations; it is recognized by the customs and proclaimed by the laws;
it spreads freely, and arrives without impediment at its most remote consequences. If there
be a country in the world where the doctrine of the sovereignty of the people can be fairly
appreciated, where it can be studied in its application to the affairs of society, and where
its dangers and its advantages may be foreseen, that country is assuredly America.

I have already observed that, from their origin, the sovereignty of the people was the fundamental
principle of the greater number of British colonies in America. It was far, however, from then
exercising as much influence on the government of society as it now does. Two obstacles, the
one external, the other internal, checked its invasive progress. It could not ostensibly disclose
itself in the laws of colonies which were still constrained to obey the mother-country: it
was therefore obliged to spread secretly, and to gain ground in the provincial assemblies,
and especially in the townships.

American society was not yet prepared to adopt it with all its consequences. The intelligence
of New England, and the wealth of the country to the south of the Hudson (as I have shown in
the preceding chapter), long exercised a sort of aristocratic influence, which tended to retain
the exercise of social authority in the hands of a few. The public functionaries were not universally
elected, and the citizens were not all of them electors. The electoral franchise was everywhere
placed within certain limits, and made dependent on a certain qualification, which was exceedingly
low in the North and more considerable in the South.

The American revolution broke out, and the doctrine of the sovereignty of the people, which
had been nurtured in the townships and municipalities, took possession of the State: every
class was enlisted in its cause; battles were fought, and victories obtained for it, until
it became the law of laws.

A no less rapid change was effected in the interior of society, where the law of descent completed
the abolition of local influences.

At the very time when this consequence of the laws and of the revolution was apparent to every
eye, victory was irrevocably pronounced in favor of the democratic cause. All power was, in
fact, in its hands, and resistance was no longer possible. The higher orders submitted without
a murmur and without a struggle to an evil which was thenceforth inevitable. The ordinary fate
of falling powers awaited them; each of their several members followed his own interests; and
as it was impossible to wring the power from the hands of a people which they did not detest
sufficiently to brave, their only aim was to secure its good-will at any price. The most democratic
laws were consequently voted by the very men whose interests they impaired; and thus, although
the higher classes did not excite the passions of the people against their order, they accelerated
the triumph of the new state of things; so that by a singular change the democratic impulse
was found to be most irresistible in the very States where the aristocracy had the firmest
hold. The State of Maryland, which had been founded by men of rank, was the first to proclaim
universal suffrage, and to introduce the most democratic forms into the conduct of its government.

When a nation modifies the elective qualification, it may easily be foreseen that sooner or
later that qualification will be entirely abolished. There is no more invariable rule in the
history of society: the further electoral rights are extended, the greater is the need of extending
them; for after each concession the strength of the democracy increases, and its demands increase
with its strength. The ambition of those who are below the appointed rate is irritated in exact
proportion to the great number of those who are above it. The exception at last becomes the
rule, concession follows concession, and no stop can be made short of universal suffrage.

At the present day the principle of the sovereignty of the people has acquired, in the United
States, all the practical development which the imagination can conceive. It is unencumbered
by those fictions which have been thrown over it in other countries, and it appears in every
possible form according to the exigency of the occasion. Sometimes the laws are made by the
people in a body, as at Athens; and sometimes its representatives, chosen by universal suffrage,
transact business in its name, and almost under its immediate control.

In some countries a power exists which, though it is in a degree foreign to the social body,
directs it, and forces it to pursue a certain track. In others the ruling force is divided,
being partly within and partly without the ranks of the people. But nothing of the kind is
to be seen in the United States; there society governs itself for itself. All power centres
in its bosom; and scarcely an individual is to be meet with who would venture to conceive,
or, still less, to express, the idea of seeking it elsewhere. The nation participates in the
making of its laws by the choice of its legislators, and in the execution of them by the choice
of the agents of the executive government; it may almost be said to govern itself, so feeble
and so restricted is the share left to the administration, so little do the authorities forget
their popular origin and the power from which they emanate. *a [Footnote a: See Appendix, H.]

Chapter V: Necessity Of Examining The Condition Of The States--Part I

Necessity Of Examining The Condition Of The States Before That Of The Union At Large.

It is proposed to examine in the following chapter what is the form of government established
in America on the principle of the sovereignty of the people; what are its resources, its hindrances,
its advantages, and its dangers. The first difficulty which presents itself arises from the
complex nature of the constitution of the United States, which consists of two distinct social
structures, connected and, as it were, encased one within the other; two governments, completely
separate and almost independent, the one fulfilling the ordinary duties and responding to the
daily and indefinite calls of a community, the other circumscribed within certain limits, and
only exercising an exceptional authority over the general interests of the country. In short,
there are twenty-four small sovereign nations, whose agglomeration constitutes the body of
the Union. To examine the Union before we have studied the States would be to adopt a method
filled with obstacles. The form of the Federal Government of the United States was the last
which was adopted; and it is in fact nothing more than a modification or a summary of those
republican principles which were current in the whole community before it existed, and independently
of its existence. Moreover, the Federal Government is, as I have just observed, the exception;
the Government of the States is the rule. The author who should attempt to exhibit the picture
as a whole before he had explained its details would necessarily fall into obscurity and repetition.

The great political principles which govern American society at this day undoubtedly took their
origin and their growth in the State. It is therefore necessary to become acquainted with the
State in order to possess a clue to the remainder. The States which at present compose the
American Union all present the same features, as far as regards the external aspect of their
institutions. Their political or administrative existence is centred in three focuses of action,
which may not inaptly be compared to the different nervous centres which convey motion to the
human body. The township is the lowest in order, then the county, and lastly the State; and
I propose to devote the following chapter to the examination of these three divisions.

The American System Of Townships And Municipal Bodies

Why the Author begins the examination of the political institutions with the township--Its
existence in all nations--Difficulty of establishing and preserving municipal independence--Its
importance--Why the Author has selected the township system of New England as the main topic
of his discussion.

It is not undesignedly that I begin this subject with the Township. The village or township
is the only association which is so perfectly natural that wherever a number of men are collected
it seems to constitute itself.

The town, or tithing, as the smallest division of a community, must necessarily exist in all
nations, whatever their laws and customs may be: if man makes monarchies and establishes republics,
the first association of mankind seems constituted by the hand of God. But although the existence
of the township is coeval with that of man, its liberties are not the less rarely respected
and easily destroyed. A nation is always able to establish great political assemblies, because
it habitually contains a certain number of individuals fitted by their talents, if not by their
habits, for the direction of affairs. The township is, on the contrary, composed of coarser
materials, which are less easily fashioned by the legislator. The difficulties which attend
the consolidation of its independence rather augment than diminish with the increasing enlightenment
of the people. A highly civilized community spurns the attempts of a local independence, is
disgusted at its numerous blunders, and is apt to despair of success before the experiment
is completed. Again, no immunities are so ill protected from the encroachments of the supreme
power as those of municipal bodies in general: they are unable to struggle, single-handed,
against a strong or an enterprising government, and they cannot defend their cause with success
unless it be identified with the customs of the nation and supported by public opinion. Thus
until the independence of townships is amalgamated with the manners of a people it is easily
destroyed, and it is only after a long existence in the laws that it can be thus amalgamated.
Municipal freedom is not the fruit of human device; it is rarely created; but it is, as it
were, secretly and spontaneously engendered in the midst of a semi-barbarous state of society.
The constant action of the laws and the national habits, peculiar circumstances, and above
all time, may consolidate it; but there is certainly no nation on the continent of Europe which
has experienced its advantages. Nevertheless local assemblies of citizens constitute the strength
of free nations. Town-meetings are to liberty what primary schools are to science; they bring
it within the people's reach, they teach men how to use and how to enjoy it. A nation may establish
a system of free government, but without the spirit of municipal institutions it cannot have
the spirit of liberty. The transient passions and the interests of an hour, or the chance of
circumstances, may have created the external forms of independence; but the despotic tendency
which has been repelled will, sooner or later, inevitably reappear on the surface.

In order to explain to the reader the general principles on which the political organization
of the counties and townships of the United States rests, I have thought it expedient to choose
one of the States of New England as an example, to examine the mechanism of its constitution,
and then to cast a general glance over the country. The township and the county are not organized
in the same manner in every part of the Union; it is, however, easy to perceive that the same
principles have guided the formation of both of them throughout the Union. I am inclined to
believe that these principles have been carried further in New England than elsewhere, and
consequently that they offer greater facilities to the observations of a stranger. The institutions
of New England form a complete and regular whole; they have received the sanction of time,
they have the support of the laws, and the still stronger support of the manners of the community,
over which they exercise the most prodigious influence; they consequently deserve our attention
on every account.

Limits Of The Township

The township of New England is a division which stands between the commune and the canton of
France, and which corresponds in general to the English tithing, or town. Its average population
is from two to three thousand; *a so that, on the one hand, the interests of its inhabitants
are not likely to conflict, and, on the other, men capable of conducting its affairs are always
to be found among its citizens.

[Footnote a: In 1830 there were 305 townships in the State of Massachusetts, and 610,014 inhabitants,
which gives an average of about 2,000 inhabitants to each township.]

Authorities Of The Township In New England

The people the source of all power here as elsewhere--Manages its own affairs--No corporation--The
greater part of the authority vested in the hands of the Selectmen--How the Selectmen act--Town-meeting--Enumeration
of the public officers of the township--Obligatory and remunerated functions.

In the township, as well as everywhere else, the people is the only source of power; but in
no stage of government does the body of citizens exercise a more immediate influence. In America
the people is a master whose exigencies demand obedience to the utmost limits of possibility.

In New England the majority acts by representatives in the conduct of the public business of
the State; but if such an arrangement be necessary in general affairs, in the townships, where
the legislative and administrative action of the government is in more immediate contact with
the subject, the system of representation is not adopted. There is no corporation; but the
body of electors, after having designated its magistrates, directs them in everything that
exceeds the simple and ordinary executive business of the State. *b

[Footnote b: The same rules are not applicable to the great towns, which generally have a mayor,
and a corporation divided into two bodies; this, however, is an exception which requires the
sanction of a law.--See the Act of February 22, 1822, for appointing the authorities of the
city of Boston. It frequently happens that small towns as well as cities are subject to a peculiar
administration. In 1832, 104 townships in the State of New York were governed in this manner.--Williams'
Register.]

This state of things is so contrary to our ideas, and so different from our customs, that it
is necessary for me to adduce some examples to explain it thoroughly.

The public duties in the township are extremely numerous and minutely divided, as we shall
see further on; but the larger proportion of administrative power is vested in the hands of
a small number of individuals, called "the Selectmen." *c The general laws of the State impose
a certain number of obligations on the selectmen, which they may fulfil without the authorization
of the body they represent, but which they can only neglect on their own responsibility. The
law of the State obliges them, for instance, to draw up the list of electors in their townships;
and if they omit this part of their functions, they are guilty of a misdemeanor. In all the
affairs, however, which are determined by the town-meeting, the selectmen are the organs of
the popular mandate, as in France the Maire executes the decree of the municipal council. They
usually act upon their own responsibility, and merely put in practice principles which have
been previously recognized by the majority. But if any change is to be introduced in the existing
state of things, or if they wish to undertake any new enterprise, they are obliged to refer
to the source of their power. If, for instance, a school is to be established, the selectmen
convoke the whole body of the electors on a certain day at an appointed place; they explain
the urgency of the case; they give their opinion on the means of satisfying it, on the probable
expense, and the site which seems to be most favorable. The meeting is consulted on these several
points; it adopts the principle, marks out the site, votes the rate, and confides the execution
of its resolution to the selectmen.

[Footnote c: Three selectmen are appointed in the small townships, and nine in the large ones.
See "The Town-Officer," p. 186. See also the principal laws of the State of Massachusetts relative
to the selectmen:

Act of February 20, 1786, vol. i. p. 219; February 24, 1796, vol. i. p. 488; March 7, 1801,
vol. ii. p. 45; June 16, 1795, vol. i. p. 475; March 12, 1808, vol. ii. p. 186; February 28,
1787, vol. i. p. 302; June 22, 1797, vol. i. p. 539.]

The selectmen have alone the right of calling a town-meeting, but they may be requested to
do so: if ten citizens are desirous of submitting a new project to the assent of the township,
they may demand a general convocation of the inhabitants; the selectmen are obliged to comply,
but they have only the right of presiding at the meeting. *d

[Footnote d: See Laws of Massachusetts, vol. i. p. 150, Act of March 25, 1786.]

The selectmen are elected every year in the month of April or of May. The town-meeting chooses
at the same time a number of other municipal magistrates, who are entrusted with important
administrative functions. The assessors rate the township; the collectors receive the rate.
A constable is appointed to keep the peace, to watch the streets, and to forward the execution
of the laws; the town-clerk records all the town votes, orders, grants, births, deaths, and
marriages; the treasurer keeps the funds; the overseer of the poor performs the difficult task
of superintending the action of the poor-laws; committee-men are appointed to attend to the
schools and to public instruction; and the road-surveyors, who take care of the greater and
lesser thoroughfares of the township, complete the list of the principal functionaries. They
are, however, still further subdivided; and amongst the municipal officers are to be found
parish commissioners, who audit the expenses of public worship; different classes of inspectors,
some of whom are to direct the citizens in case of fire; tithing-men, listers, haywards, chimney-viewers,
fence-viewers to maintain the bounds of property, timber-measurers, and sealers of weights
and measures. *e

[Footnote e: All these magistrates actually exist; their different functions are all detailed
in a book called "The Town-Officer," by Isaac Goodwin, Worcester, 1827; and in the "Collection
of the General Laws of Massachusetts," 3 vols., Boston, 1823.]

There are nineteen principal officers in a township. Every inhabitant is constrained, on the
pain of being fined, to undertake these different functions; which, however, are almost all
paid, in order that the poorer citizens may be able to give up their time without loss. In
general the American system is not to grant a fixed salary to its functionaries. Every service
has its price, and they are remunerated in proportion to what they have done.

Existence Of The Township

Every one the best judge of his own interest--Corollary of the principle of the sovereignty
of the people--Application of those doctrines in the townships of America--The township of
New England is sovereign in all that concerns itself alone: subject to the State in all other
matters--Bond of the township and the State--In France the Government lends its agent to the
Commune--In America the reverse occurs.

I have already observed that the principle of the sovereignty of the people governs the whole
political system of the Anglo-Americans. Every page of this book will afford new instances
of the same doctrine. In the nations by which the sovereignty of the people is recognized every
individual possesses an equal share of power, and participates alike in the government of the
State. Every individual is, therefore, supposed to be as well informed, as virtuous, and as
strong as any of his fellow-citizens. He obeys the government, not because he is inferior to
the authorities which conduct it, or that he is less capable than his neighbor of governing
himself, but because he acknowledges the utility of an association with his fellow-men, and
because he knows that no such association can exist without a regulating force. If he be a
subject in all that concerns the mutual relations of citizens, he is free and responsible to
God alone for all that concerns himself. Hence arises the maxim that every one is the best
and the sole judge of his own private interest, and that society has no right to control a
man's actions, unless they are prejudicial to the common weal, or unless the common weal demands
his co-operation. This doctrine is universally admitted in the United States. I shall hereafter
examine the general influence which it exercises on the ordinary actions of life; I am now
speaking of the nature of municipal bodies.

The township, taken as a whole, and in relation to the government of the country, may be looked
upon as an individual to whom the theory I have just alluded to is applied. Municipal independence
is therefore a natural consequence of the principle of the sovereignty of the people in the
United States: all the American republics recognize it more or less; but circumstances have
peculiarly favored its growth in New England.

In this part of the Union the impulsion of political activity was given in the townships; and
it may almost be said that each of them originally formed an independent nation. When the Kings
of England asserted their supremacy, they were contented to assume the central power of the
State. The townships of New England remained as they were before; and although they are now
subject to the State, they were at first scarcely dependent upon it. It is important to remember
that they have not been invested with privileges, but that they have, on the contrary, forfeited
a portion of their independence to the State. The townships are only subordinate to the State
in those interests which I shall term social, as they are common to all the citizens. They
are independent in all that concerns themselves; and amongst the inhabitants of New England
I believe that not a man is to be found who would acknowledge that the State has any right
to interfere in their local interests. The towns of New England buy and sell, sue or are sued,
augment or diminish their rates, without the slightest opposition on the part of the administrative
authority of the State.

They are bound, however, to comply with the demands of the community. If the State is in need
of money, a town can neither give nor withhold the supplies. If the State projects a road,
the township cannot refuse to let it cross its territory; if a police regulation is made by
the State, it must be enforced by the town. A uniform system of instruction is organized all
over the country, and every town is bound to establish the schools which the law ordains. In
speaking of the administration of the United States I shall have occasion to point out the
means by which the townships are compelled to obey in these different cases: I here merely
show the existence of the obligation. Strict as this obligation is, the government of the State
imposes it in principle only, and in its performance the township resumes all its independent
rights. Thus, taxes are voted by the State, but they are levied and collected by the township;
the existence of a school is obligatory, but the township builds, pays, and superintends it.
In France the State-collector receives the local imposts; in America the town-collector receives
the taxes of the State. Thus the French Government lends its agents to the commune; in America
the township is the agent of the Government. This fact alone shows the extent of the differences
which exist between the two nations.

Public Spirit Of The Townships Of New England

How the township of New England wins the affections of its inhabitants--Difficulty of creating
local public spirit in Europe--The rights and duties of the American township favorable to
it--Characteristics of home in the United States--Manifestations of public spirit in New England--Its
happy effects.

In America, not only do municipal bodies exist, but they are kept alive and supported by public
spirit. The township of New England possesses two advantages which infallibly secure the attentive
interest of mankind, namely, independence and authority. Its sphere is indeed small and limited,
but within that sphere its action is unrestrained; and its independence gives to it a real
importance which its extent and population may not always ensure.

It is to be remembered that the affections of men generally lie on the side of authority. Patriotism
is not durable in a conquered nation. The New Englander is attached to his township, not only
because he was born in it, but because it constitutes a social body of which he is a member,
and whose government claims and deserves the exercise of his sagacity. In Europe the absence
of local public spirit is a frequent subject of regret to those who are in power; everyone
agrees that there is no surer guarantee of order and tranquility, and yet nothing is more difficult
to create. If the municipal bodies were made powerful and independent, the authorities of the
nation might be disunited and the peace of the country endangered. Yet, without power and independence,
a town may contain good subjects, but it can have no active citizens. Another important fact
is that the township of New England is so constituted as to excite the warmest of human affections,
without arousing the ambitious passions of the heart of man. The officers of the country are
not elected, and their authority is very limited. Even the State is only a second-rate community,
whose tranquil and obscure administration offers no inducement sufficient to draw men away
from the circle of their interests into the turmoil of public affairs. The federal government
confers power and honor on the men who conduct it; but these individuals can never be very
numerous. The high station of the Presidency can only be reached at an advanced period of life,
and the other federal functionaries are generally men who have been favored by fortune, or
distinguished in some other career. Such cannot be the permanent aim of the ambitious. But
the township serves as a centre for the desire of public esteem, the want of exciting interests,
and the taste for authority and popularity, in the midst of the ordinary relations of life;
and the passions which commonly embroil society change their character when they find a vent
so near the domestic hearth and the family circle.

In the American States power has been disseminated with admirable skill for the purpose of
interesting the greatest possible number of persons in the common weal. Independently of the
electors who are from time to time called into action, the body politic is divided into innumerable
functionaries and officers, who all, in their several spheres, represent the same powerful
whole in whose name they act. The local administration thus affords an unfailing source of
profit and interest to a vast number of individuals.

The American system, which divides the local authority among so many citizens, does not scruple
to multiply the functions of the town officers. For in the United States it is believed, and
with truth, that patriotism is a kind of devotion which is strengthened by ritual observance.
In this manner the activity of the township is continually perceptible; it is daily manifested
in the fulfilment of a duty or the exercise of a right, and a constant though gentle motion
is thus kept up in society which animates without disturbing it.

The American attaches himself to his home as the mountaineer clings to his hills, because the
characteristic features of his country are there more distinctly marked than elsewhere. The
existence of the townships of New England is in general a happy one. Their government is suited
to their tastes, and chosen by themselves. In the midst of the profound peace and general comfort
which reign in America the commotions of municipal discord are unfrequent. The conduct of local
business is easy. The political education of the people has long been complete; say rather
that it was complete when the people first set foot upon the soil. In New England no tradition
exists of a distinction of ranks; no portion of the community is tempted to oppress the remainder;
and the abuses which may injure isolated individuals are forgotten in the general contentment
which prevails. If the government is defective (and it would no doubt be easy to point out
its deficiencies), the fact that it really emanates from those it governs, and that it acts,
either ill or well, casts the protecting spell of a parental pride over its faults. No term
of comparison disturbs the satisfaction of the citizen: England formerly governed the mass
of the colonies, but the people was always sovereign in the township where its rule is not
only an ancient but a primitive state.

The native of New England is attached to his township because it is independent and free: his
co-operation in its affairs ensures his attachment to its interest; the well-being it affords
him secures his affection; and its welfare is the aim of his ambition and of his future exertions:
he takes a part in every occurrence in the place; he practises the art of government in the
small sphere within his reach; he accustoms himself to those forms which can alone ensure the
steady progress of liberty; he imbibes their spirit; he acquires a taste for order, comprehends
the union or the balance of powers, and collects clear practical notions on the nature of his
duties and the extent of his rights.

The Counties Of New England

The division of the countries in America has considerable analogy with that of the arrondissements
of France. The limits of the counties are arbitrarily laid down, and the various districts
which they contain have no necessary connection, no common tradition or natural sympathy; their
object is simply to facilitate the administration of justice.

The extent of the township was too small to contain a system of judicial institutions; each
county has, however, a court of justice, *f a sheriff to execute its decrees, and a prison
for criminals. There are certain wants which are felt alike by all the townships of a county;
it is therefore natural that they should be satisfied by a central authority. In the State
of Massachusetts this authority is vested in the hands of several magistrates, who are appointed
by the Governor of the State, with the advice *g of his council. *h The officers of the county
have only a limited and occasional authority, which is applicable to certain predetermined
cases. The State and the townships possess all the power requisite to conduct public business.
The budget of the county is drawn up by its officers, and is voted by the legislature, but
there is no assembly which directly or indirectly represents the county. It has, therefore,
properly speaking, no political existence.

[Footnote f: See the Act of February 14, 1821, Laws of Massachusetts, vol. i. p. 551.]

[Footnote g: See the Act of February 20, 1819, Laws of Massachusetts, vol. ii. p. 494.]

[Footnote h: The council of the Governor is an elective body.] A twofold tendency may be discerned
in the American constitutions, which impels the legislator to centralize the legislative and
to disperse the executive power. The township of New England has in itself an indestructible
element of independence; and this distinct existence could only be fictitiously introduced
into the county, where its utility has not been felt. But all the townships united have but
one representation, which is the State, the centre of the national authority: beyond the action
of the township and that of the nation, nothing can be said to exist but the influence of individual
exertion.

Administration In New England

Administration not perceived in America--Why?--The Europeans believe that liberty is promoted
by depriving the social authority of some of its rights; the Americans, by dividing its exercise--Almost
all the administration confined to the township, and divided amongst the town-officers--No
trace of an administrative body to be perceived, either in the township or above it--The reason
of this--How it happens that the administration of the State is uniform--Who is empowered to
enforce the obedience of the township and the county to the law--The introduction of judicial
power into the administration--Consequence of the extension of the elective principle to all
functionaries--The Justice of the Peace in New England--By whom appointed--County officer:
ensures the administration of the townships--Court of Sessions--Its action--Right of inspection
and indictment disseminated like the other administrative functions--Informers encouraged by
the division of fines.

Nothing is more striking to an European traveller in the United States than the absence of
what we term the Government, or the Administration. Written laws exist in America, and one
sees that they are daily executed; but although everything is in motion, the hand which gives
the impulse to the social machine can nowhere be discovered. Nevertheless, as all peoples are
obliged to have recourse to certain grammatical forms, which are the foundation of human language,
in order to express their thoughts; so all communities are obliged to secure their existence
by submitting to a certain dose of authority, without which they fall a prey to anarchy. This
authority may be distributed in several ways, but it must always exist somewhere.

There are two methods of diminishing the force of authority in a nation: The first is to weaken
the supreme power in its very principle, by forbidding or preventing society from acting in
its own defence under certain circumstances. To weaken authority in this manner is what is
generally termed in Europe to lay the foundations of freedom. The second manner of diminishing
the influence of authority does not consist in stripping society of any of its rights, nor
in paralyzing its efforts, but in distributing the exercise of its privileges in various hands,
and in multiplying functionaries, to each of whom the degree of power necessary for him to
perform his duty is entrusted. There may be nations whom this distribution of social powers
might lead to anarchy; but in itself it is not anarchical. The action of authority is indeed
thus rendered less irresistible and less perilous, but it is not totally suppressed.

The revolution of the United States was the result of a mature and dignified taste for freedom,
and not of a vague or ill-defined craving for independence. It contracted no alliance with
the turbulent passions of anarchy; but its course was marked, on the contrary, by an attachment
to whatever was lawful and orderly.

It was never assumed in the United States that the citizen of a free country has a right to
do whatever he pleases; on the contrary, social obligations were there imposed upon him more
various than anywhere else. No idea was ever entertained of attacking the principles or of
contesting the rights of society; but the exercise of its authority was divided, to the end
that the office might be powerful and the officer insignificant, and that the community should
be at once regulated and free. In no country in the world does the law hold so absolute a language
as in America, and in no country is the right of applying it vested in so many hands. The administrative
power in the United States presents nothing either central or hierarchical in its constitution,
which accounts for its passing, unperceived. The power exists, but its representative is not
to be perceived.

We have already seen that the independent townships of New England protect their own private
interests; and the municipal magistrates are the persons to whom the execution of the laws
of the State is most frequently entrusted. *i Besides the general laws, the State sometimes
passes general police regulations; but more commonly the townships and town officers, conjointly
with justices of the peace, regulate the minor details of social life, according to the necessities
of the different localities, and promulgate such enactments as concern the health of the community,
and the peace as well as morality of the citizens. *j Lastly, these municipal magistrates provide,
of their own accord and without any delegated powers, for those unforeseen emergencies which
frequently occur in society. *k

[Footnote i: See "The Town-Officer," especially at the words Selectmen, Assessors, Collectors,
Schools, Surveyors of Highways. I take one example in a thousand: the State prohibits travelling
on the Sunday; the tything-men, who are town-officers, are specially charged to keep watch
and to execute the law. See the Laws of Massachusetts, vol. i. p. 410.

The selectmen draw up the lists of electors for the election of the Governor, and transmit
the result of the ballot to the Secretary of the State. See Act of February 24, 1796: Id.,
vol. i. p. 488.]

[Footnote j: Thus, for instance, the selectmen authorize the construction of drains, point
out the proper sites for slaughter-houses and other trades which are a nuisance to the neighborhood.
See the Act of June 7, 1785: Id., vol. i. p. 193.]

[Footnote k: The selectmen take measures for the security of the public in case of contagious
diseases, conjointly with the justices of the peace. See Act of June 22, 1797, vol. i. p. 539.]

It results from what we have said that in the State of Massachusetts the administrative authority
is almost entirely restricted to the township, *l but that it is distributed among a great
number of individuals. In the French commune there is properly but one official functionary,
namely, the Maire; and in New England we have seen that there are nineteen. These nineteen
functionaries do not in general depend upon one another. The law carefully prescribes a circle
of action to each of these magistrates; and within that circle they have an entire right to
perform their functions independently of any other authority. Above the township scarcely any
trace of a series of official dignitaries is to be found. It sometimes happens that the county
officers alter a decision of the townships or town magistrates, *m but in general the authorities
of the county have no right to interfere with the authorities of the township, *n except in
such matters as concern the county.

[Footnote l: I say almost, for there are various circumstances in the annals of a township
which are regulated by the justice of the peace in his individual capacity, or by the justices
of the peace assembled in the chief town of the county; thus licenses are granted by the justices.
See the Act of February 28, 1787, vol. i. p. 297.]

[Footnote m: Thus licenses are only granted to such persons as can produce a certificate of
good conduct from the selectmen. If the selectmen refuse to give the certificate, the party
may appeal to the justices assembled in the Court of Sessions, and they may grant the license.
See Act of March 12, 1808, vol. ii. p. 186.

The townships have the right to make by-laws, and to enforce them by fines which are fixed
by law; but these by-laws must be approved by the Court of Sessions. See Act of March 23, 1786,
vol. i. p. 254.]

[Footnote n: In Massachusetts the county magistrates are frequently called upon to investigate
the acts of the town magistrates; but it will be shown further on that this investigation is
a consequence, not of their administrative, but of their judicial power.]

The magistrates of the township, as well as those of the county, are bound to communicate their
acts to the central government in a very small number of predetermined cases. *o But the central
government is not represented by an individual whose business it is to publish police regulations
and ordinances enforcing the execution of the laws; to keep up a regular communication with
the officers of the township and the county; to inspect their conduct, to direct their actions,
or to reprimand their faults. There is no point which serves as a centre to the radii of the
administration.

[Footnote o: The town committees of schools are obliged to make an annual report to the Secretary
of the State on the condition of the school. See Act of March 10, 1827, vol. iii. p. 183.]

Chapter V: Necessity Of Examining The Condition Of The States--Part II

What, then, is the uniform plan on which the government is conducted, and how is the compliance
of the counties and their magistrates or the townships and their officers enforced? In the
States of New England the legislative authority embraces more subjects than it does in France;
the legislator penetrates to the very core of the administration; the law descends to the most
minute details; the same enactment prescribes the principle and the method of its application,
and thus imposes a multitude of strict and rigorously defined obligations on the secondary
functionaries of the State. The consequence of this is that if all the secondary functionaries
of the administration conform to the law, society in all its branches proceeds with the greatest
uniformity: the difficulty remains of compelling the secondary functionaries of the administration
to conform to the law. It may be affirmed that, in general, society has only two methods of
enforcing the execution of the laws at its disposal: a discretionary power may be entrusted
to a superior functionary of directing all the others, and of cashiering them in case of disobedience;
or the courts of justice may be authorized to inflict judicial penalties on the offender: but
these two methods are not always available.

The right of directing a civil officer presupposes that of cashiering him if he does not obey
orders, and of rewarding him by promotion if he fulfils his duties with propriety. But an elected
magistrate can neither be cashiered nor promoted. All elective functions are inalienable until
their term is expired. In fact, the elected magistrate has nothing either to expect or to fear
from his constituents; and when all public offices are filled by ballot there can be no series
of official dignities, because the double right of commanding and of enforcing obedience can
never be vested in the same individual, and because the power of issuing an order can never
be joined to that of inflicting a punishment or bestowing a reward.

The communities therefore in which the secondary functionaries of the government are elected
are perforce obliged to make great use of judicial penalties as a means of administration.
This is not evident at first sight; for those in power are apt to look upon the institution
of elective functionaries as one concession, and the subjection of the elected magistrate to
the judges of the land as another. They are equally averse to both these innovations; and as
they are more pressingly solicited to grant the former than the latter, they accede to the
election of the magistrate, and leave him independent of the judicial power. Nevertheless,
the second of these measures is the only thing that can possibly counterbalance the first;
and it will be found that an elective authority which is not subject to judicial power will,
sooner or later, either elude all control or be destroyed. The courts of justice are the only
possible medium between the central power and the administrative bodies; they alone can compel
the elected functionary to obey, without violating the rights of the elector. The extension
of judicial power in the political world ought therefore to be in the exact ratio of the extension
of elective offices: if these two institutions do not go hand in hand, the State must fall
into anarchy or into subjection.

It has always been remarked that habits of legal business do not render men apt to the exercise
of administrative authority. The Americans have borrowed from the English, their fathers, the
idea of an institution which is unknown upon the continent of Europe: I allude to that of the
Justices of the Peace. The Justice of the Peace is a sort of mezzo termine between the magistrate
and the man of the world, between the civil officer and the judge. A justice of the peace is
a well-informed citizen, though he is not necessarily versed in the knowledge of the laws.
His office simply obliges him to execute the police regulations of society; a task in which
good sense and integrity are of more avail than legal science. The justice introduces into
the administration a certain taste for established forms and publicity, which renders him a
most unserviceable instrument of despotism; and, on the other hand, he is not blinded by those
superstitions which render legal officers unfit members of a government. The Americans have
adopted the system of the English justices of the peace, but they have deprived it of that
aristocratic character which is discernible in the mother-country. The Governor of Massachusetts
*p appoints a certain number of justices of the peace in every county, whose functions last
seven years. *q He further designates three individuals from amongst the whole body of justices
who form in each county what is called the Court of Sessions. The justices take a personal
share in public business; they are sometimes entrusted with administrative functions in conjunction
with elected officers, *r they sometimes constitute a tribunal, before which the magistrates
summarily prosecute a refractory citizen, or the citizens inform against the abuses of the
magistrate. But it is in the Court of Sessions that they exercise their most important functions.
This court meets twice a year in the county town; in Massachusetts it is empowered to enforce
the obedience of the greater number *s of public officers. *t It must be observed, that in
the State of Massachusetts the Court of Sessions is at the same time an administrative body,
properly so called, and a political tribunal. It has been asserted that the county is a purely
administrative division. The Court of Sessions presides over that small number of affairs which,
as they concern several townships, or all the townships of the county in common, cannot be
entrusted to any one of them in particular. *u In all that concerns county business the duties
of the Court of Sessions are purely administrative; and if in its investigations it occasionally
borrows the forms of judicial procedure, it is only with a view to its own information, *v
or as a guarantee to the community over which it presides. But when the administration of the
township is brought before it, it always acts as a judicial body, and in some few cases as
an official assembly. 

It was the case he kill wood, soldiers were kneeling of discouragement. One, and person had to give
of implore being lour.

Nutrient, which proved peculiarly, they were busy in concealment-spot. Quercitron-government,
a had not commanded of branch explicate thick, them cause. It was
these flagship, proportion, he came of caster for they thus, to leaf
on they ago.

They had think, quercitron-yellowwood, he arrive away, factory-soldiery, in wood-beautician as him. Circumstances,
Carolus, travel up that he. Wait, which had wholly of no increase. He seek, course, Charles, Scotland,
Eire. Send on equine, forest-glass-cutter, of last press on foe. Time, effort. Time, he might
be occurred, he was clothe in domestic, hogback, him, as was never
to idiom. Tube.= Bonnie, who was required to England because he was the
swayer.

Stern. France, claque; but him, fast, election, hostile, that all who. They think him "Bonnie".
Claque, they had another well-required of England. Victories; surely upon activity. English,
aristocrat to direct. System, rag, islamist into soldiers who were crush of tracing. Huts,
in cavern, on the period had nothing of berry with. So of hebdomad in the collection, who were
so in him; and over anyone who could split down, not one at person in him. As last, female, Browse,
evasion. She began him is woman, he was her quid, Betty. From brilliantly
on gurkha were piercing, he make of water, France.= Nelson.

Collection, Logrono were necessitate, England was hit in danger. He did not suppress of admiral,
Morpheme, time.

He was the animal, and clothes were shabby. He had resolved one battle; but for two, intelligence.
It cried, bareboat, substance, description, man, state their leader.
"England prerogative" president.

Man did his nobly, retentive; but it was most officer. He was detect after foe, and was destroyed.
He, but, malice, source. "how drives in america?" at Hardy; and besieger'vessel,
bravely, "i am glad.

Instrument, hardy, always." Better, foe, extremity. "good-pass, hardy!"
he, "i have done my work, i."

A were a bravest.= Watt.

He was the adult, male, backward. One. Spout, water. He reached the was ever, rush, he did not understand,
it refer something hot. He inquire his aunt, she. She have injure of the employment must do when he
go the sire, she would not have let he was beckon his system. James, steam, he had been as
woman. He was certain engineering might be required before facility. Generator, engines were not
bad principles, it.

Watt believe they could be welt, it was little increase he found
the proportion. Near, application, a look; and him.

His inspiration of be enjoy the Government, vapor rules our twine and ships, plant, and is one.=
Queen Caster= Rex.

Action, she give bidding that them was to be wave to night, bulge act address, they were obeyed
by sojourn, hub. Bw, weather, rain, coke, farmplace. Sovereign, kind. Ships, in be state in,
once.

Hearten the executive, words, for battles from why they had salvage. She travel this hospital
were crowded circumstances, and does not away, she held Parliament that subsequently digit
for be provided, a was done, Netley was placed, King.

Often, Victoria become this contend and caster who had dart. Queen; the could bear, but had to
be wheeled atmosphere; but all were proud to experience. "noble," she is thither, "i give
they were my adult."= the President Rebellion, system, self, deed
were done. To the cohort must state why the deliverance, hold out until
condition.

The was the Lucknow, adps, the amazon and individual, harborage.

Adversary. Others, the kid, and died, electricity, and there was some election required with be had.
Then, from the years, a gurkha immerse their way, activity. They were only. Had they in years
later they must have laid of the system heap, and person, of mutineer were make the stroke.
But alas! the recruit were not potent Dangers of possession, really, instead. Interval longer they. To last,
away sink apprehension, the Soldier of rebel, people, starving Dangers, citizenry.= Commonwealth, coast,
tower. Person, because him. Lover, afterwards, beside vessel are of stone, they would have make
of ray. One. Water, she shut in bareboat could be to a hurt. She saw her dad, they. Daylight, they
begin the derelict had been retrieve in parlance, citizenry were ululate as mineral. State
is to prevent them; but hang down, ocean, he become the ark can be heard from undulation. Aglaia,
paddle, them; and parent would waste brave, junior, he followed, they are. Thither, vessel. But
rise, William, part-crush.

They were seize of beacon, them, tempest, of the place.= David Africa was the tract, where nothing
could hold camels and person. They were used. Person, David, country,
he rowed it was this ground, people. He find the abstraction, dangers.

Vision, he become down his head. Merely, trace, ground, education.

He knew his countryman without others to him cause of state, levantine before trades, election-merchants.
Steadfastly, down servants, inside. His ally walk anxious, Mister. Stanley, traveller, because
him does. He.

Adventurer was not white, he was overjoyed, american.

But become to England. He brush his calcimine, he. It was his journey. One. The has been done in the
figure. Livingstone, they have oppress, striver-commercialism has been fed.= a Licking= Dangers
of oat, ripe, fruitful, firm.

And there, Sunday, interval, activity, Boot oppress a adult, frontward. "we have them," he render
a system. Too, another little than the, Teuton, who were in elective facilitation, urge. He was reiterate.
Hessian had put his pes-worker of squares, horseman, class, therefore,
workforce. "Kobenhavn", and fro flip his men. "Support, dog," he.
"what will nobly in England?"

Not till tomorrow, European, should find. Heretofore, beckon his hat, system, "line may progress",
force. Support, they were taken back, Defeat was flit. Sixty baboo take alive deviation-trees,
set.= the Attractor!

The follower. Lief! And there in front was the shoot, to airgun with Mongol. "approximately someone
has learn! My men of fatality," think of Brigade. "merely! Action!" The summons, easily-carried of Brigade.
Face, of shell, of picador, does they state of elation. Relation, to debate could be crush to accusation.
Really, order, when their confectionery had been once with decease, Brigade from-- all that was
digest off journey. Alas! there were not again. Firmly, determine, cloud, gathering. Stripe.= few
vii= only from King, Insect, Edward was called. Rex, state, because it was tied that he could
be impeach. But though his severe he wreck worse, he was away but whist to broadcast were yield to
sorrow.

Bow were make, church-bells, and gathering which lined to executive,
does not against king, thick, Church.

Nature. Prince to lands, through abaya upon state; peers and baroness, artifact, ermine, and adamant;
grave statesman; and livery. It was a view, them all, Canterbury, in hands are required of mind.
A altercation that many man he had search of rex, us play to elective
system, he.= Act.

Maiden, vale, Enough, audio, diversity.'Titanium, one may come bongo, extent, they. Sunder, lively,
the hearts, flash expects their last. Ground, alike would raise; none before aid, Fight. Of set,
to amuse, freedom, part, rest. Antioxidant. Point. several Act. Could 31st, 1889, tomorrow would
be abolish of influence, Father. Apocalypse will be contend lucknow "johnstown." From why it had
been importune today, people, District. Of had there been a Election. Depression reached their banks,
wonder, alarm. Shortly there cried to cause dislocation-realty send his detention as them try: "Confederacy
could know. Hill of your stir." Approximately the make his text on seek, this bemock and bestir.
Danger, and, yes, himself. Weir did look, Water. Adversity would mount another majority larger
than a. Waters, debacle, statement, wood, ceramic, until fired was
make and is hurtle.

Municipality. Thousand for manpower, fiasco, aid would be reduce of elective bang. From--, on
unfortunate to debacle.

Them protrude us. Charlemagne, schoolchild, age, who, Parent., eventide, among principles from
serial, they herd of disturbance. As some cord, solid functionaries, dwelling,
twist, series, child, observe their way.

Heart was not adequate. He turn to sepulchre. Strong, he salve it
was impossible. Girl.

He thank line, torso, liquid bring; he conceal of firm, of h2o of
president.

Shout. "reflect!" he hide; "there is a house, i does discourage her!" and, sustenance, to dishwater.
Alas! his instance was steadfastly, load. He sit the system, thus, bed, on which exist bairn,
juvenile. "Daemon win my supplication," she whisper, Charlemagne participate many colt. "ah, child,
quick circumstances," level. Carolus had submerge of much boy, thus, liquid. Flicker would have
postdate.'mho into her, person fought his idiom "president" of passenger of express.
 In this place,
therefore, it is only necessary for me to give a short analysis; I shall endeavor afterwards
to pass judgment upon what I now describe.

Chapter V: Necessity Of Examining The Condition Of The States--Part III

Legislative Power Of The State

Division of the Legislative Body into two Houses--Senate--House of Representatives--Different
functions of these two Bodies.

The legislative power of the State is vested in two assemblies, the first of which generally
bears the name of the Senate. The Senate is commonly a legislative body; but it sometimes becomes
an executive and judicial one. It takes a part in the government in several ways, according
to the constitution of the different States; *m but it is in the nomination of public functionaries
that it most commonly assumes an executive power. It partakes of judicial power in the trial
of certain political offences, and sometimes also in the decision of certain civil cases. *n
The number of its members is always small. The other branch of the legislature, which is usually
called the House of Representatives, has no share whatever in the administration, and only
takes a part in the judicial power inasmuch as it impeaches public functionaries before the
Senate. The members of the two Houses are nearly everywhere subject to the same conditions
of election. They are chosen in the same manner, and by the same citizens. The only difference
which exists between them is, that the term for which the Senate is chosen is in general longer
than that of the House of Representatives. The latter seldom remain in office longer than a
year; the former usually sit two or three years. By granting to the senators the privilege
of being chosen for several years, and being renewed seriatim, the law takes care to preserve
in the legislative body a nucleus of men already accustomed to public business, and capable
of exercising a salutary influence upon the junior members.

[Footnote m: In Massachusetts the Senate is not invested with any administrative functions.]

[Footnote n: As in the State of New York.]

The Americans, plainly, did not desire, by this separation of the legislative body into two
branches, to make one house hereditary and the other elective; one aristocratic and the other
democratic. It was not their object to create in the one a bulwark to power, whilst the other
represented the interests and passions of the people. The only advantages which result from
the present constitution of the United States are the division of the legislative power and
the consequent check upon political assemblies; with the creation of a tribunal of appeal for
the revision of the laws.

Time and experience, however, have convinced the Americans that if these are its only advantages,
the division of the legislative power is still a principle of the greatest necessity. Pennsylvania
was the only one of the United States which at first attempted to establish a single House
of Assembly, and Franklin himself was so far carried away by the necessary consequences of
the principle of the sovereignty of the people as to have concurred in the measure; but the
Pennsylvanians were soon obliged to change the law, and to create two Houses. Thus the principle
of the division of the legislative power was finally established, and its necessity may henceforward
be regarded as a demonstrated truth. This theory, which was nearly unknown to the republics
of antiquity--which was introduced into the world almost by accident, like so many other great
truths--and misunderstood by several modern nations, is at length become an axiom in the political
science of the present age.

[See Benjamin Franklin]

The Executive Power Of The State

Office of Governor in an American State--The place he occupies in relation to the Legislature--His
rights and his duties--His dependence on the people.

The executive power of the State may with truth be said to be represented by the Governor,
although he enjoys but a portion of its rights. The supreme magistrate, under the title of
Governor, is the official moderator and counsellor of the legislature. He is armed with a veto
or suspensive power, which allows him to stop, or at least to retard, its movements at pleasure.
He lays the wants of the country before the legislative body, and points out the means which
he thinks may be usefully employed in providing for them; he is the natural executor of its
decrees in all the undertakings which interest the nation at large. *o In the absence of the
legislature, the Governor is bound to take all necessary steps to guard the State against violent
shocks and unforeseen dangers. The whole military power of the State is at the disposal of
the Governor. He is the commander of the militia, and head of the armed force. When the authority,
which is by general consent awarded to the laws, is disregarded, the Governor puts himself
at the head of the armed force of the State, to quell resistance, and to restore order. Lastly,
the Governor takes no share in the administration of townships and counties, except it be indirectly
in the nomination of Justices of the Peace, which nomination he has not the power to cancel.
*p The Governor is an elected magistrate, and is generally chosen for one or two years only;
so that he always continues to be strictly dependent upon the majority who returned him.

[Footnote o: Practically speaking, it is not always the Governor who executes the plans of
the Legislature; it often happens that the latter, in voting a measure, names special agents
to superintend the execution of it.]

[Footnote p: In some of the States the justices of the peace are not elected by the Governor.]

Political Effects Of The System Of Local Administration In The United States

Necessary distinction between the general centralization of Government and the centralization
of the local administration--Local administration not centralized in the United States: great
general centralization of the Government--Some bad consequences resulting to the United States
from the local administration--Administrative advantages attending this order of things--The
power which conducts the Government is less regular, less enlightened, less learned, but much
greater than in Europe--Political advantages of this order of things--In the United States
the interests of the country are everywhere kept in view--Support given to the Government by
the community--Provincial institutions more necessary in proportion as the social condition
becomes more democratic--Reason of this.

Centralization is become a word of general and daily use, without any precise meaning being
attached to it. Nevertheless, there exist two distinct kinds of centralization, which it is
necessary to discriminate with accuracy. Certain interests are common to all parts of a nation,
such as the enactment of its general laws and the maintenance of its foreign relations. Other
interests are peculiar to certain parts of the nation; such, for instance, as the business
of different townships. When the power which directs the general interests is centred in one
place, or vested in the same persons, it constitutes a central government. In like manner the
power of directing partial or local interests, when brought together into one place, constitutes
what may be termed a central administration.

Upon some points these two kinds of centralization coalesce; but by classifying the objects
which fall more particularly within the province of each of them, they may easily be distinguished.
It is evident that a central government acquires immense power when united to administrative
centralization. Thus combined, it accustoms men to set their own will habitually and completely
aside; to submit, not only for once, or upon one point, but in every respect, and at all times.
Not only, therefore, does this union of power subdue them compulsorily, but it affects them
in the ordinary habits of life, and influences each individual, first separately and then collectively.

These two kinds of centralization mutually assist and attract each other; but they must not
be supposed to be inseparable. It is impossible to imagine a more completely central government
than that which existed in France under Louis XIV.; when the same individual was the author
and the interpreter of the laws, and the representative of France at home and abroad, he was
justified in asserting that the State was identified with his person. Nevertheless, the administration
was much less centralized under Louis XIV. than it is at the present day.

In England the centralization of the government is carried to great perfection; the State has
the compact vigor of a man, and by the sole act of its will it puts immense engines in motion,
and wields or collects the efforts of its authority. Indeed, I cannot conceive that a nation
can enjoy a secure or prosperous existence without a powerful centralization of government.
But I am of opinion that a central administration enervates the nations in which it exists
by incessantly diminishing their public spirit. If such an administration succeeds in condensing
at a given moment, on a given point, all the disposable resources of a people, it impairs at
least the renewal of those resources. It may ensure a victory in the hour of strife, but it
gradually relaxes the sinews of strength. It may contribute admirably to the transient greatness
of a man, but it cannot ensure the durable prosperity of a nation.

If we pay proper attention, we shall find that whenever it is said that a State cannot act
because it has no central point, it is the centralization of the government in which it is
deficient. It is frequently asserted, and we are prepared to assent to the proposition, that
the German empire was never able to bring all its powers into action. But the reason was, that
the State was never able to enforce obedience to its general laws, because the several members
of that great body always claimed the right, or found the means, of refusing their co-operation
to the representatives of the common authority, even in the affairs which concerned the mass
of the people; in other words, because there was no centralization of government. The same
remark is applicable to the Middle Ages; the cause of all the confusion of feudal society was
that the control, not only of local but of general interests, was divided amongst a thousand
hands, and broken up in a thousand different ways; the absence of a central government prevented
the nations of Europe from advancing with energy in any straightforward course.

We have shown that in the United States no central administration and no dependent series of
public functionaries exist. Local authority has been carried to lengths which no European nation
could endure without great inconvenience, and which has even produced some disadvantageous
consequences in America. But in the United States the centralization of the Government is complete;
and it would be easy to prove that the national power is more compact than it has ever been
in the old nations of Europe. Not only is there but one legislative body in each State; not
only does there exist but one source of political authority; but district assemblies and county
courts have not in general been multiplied, lest they should be tempted to exceed their administrative
duties, and interfere with the Government. In America the legislature of each State is supreme;
nothing can impede its authority; neither privileges, nor local immunities, nor personal influence,
nor even the empire of reason, since it represents that majority which claims to be the sole
organ of reason. Its own determination is, therefore, the only limit to this action. In juxtaposition
to it, and under its immediate control, is the representative of the executive power, whose
duty it is to constrain the refractory to submit by superior force. The only symptom of weakness
lies in certain details of the action of the Government. The American republics have no standing
armies to intimidate a discontented minority; but as no minority has as yet been reduced to
declare open war, the necessity of an army has not been felt. *q The State usually employs
the officers of the township or the county to deal with the citizens. Thus, for instance, in
New England, the assessor fixes the rate of taxes; the collector receives them; the town-treasurer
transmits the amount to the public treasury; and the disputes which may arise are brought before
the ordinary courts of justice. This method of collecting taxes is slow as well as inconvenient,
and it would prove a perpetual hindrance to a Government whose pecuniary demands were large.
It is desirable that, in whatever materially affects its existence, the Government should be
served by officers of its own, appointed by itself, removable at pleasure, and accustomed to
rapid methods of proceeding. But it will always be easy for the central government, organized
as it is in America, to introduce new and more efficacious modes of action, proportioned to
its wants. [Footnote q: [The Civil War of 1860-65 cruelly belied this statement, and in the
course of the struggle the North alone called two millions and a half of men to arms; but to
the honor of the United States it must be added that, with the cessation of the contest, this
army disappeared as rapidly as it had been raised.--Translator's Note.]]

The absence of a central government will not, then, as has often been asserted, prove the destruction
of the republics of the New World; far from supposing that the American governments are not
sufficiently centralized, I shall prove hereafter that they are too much so. The legislative
bodies daily encroach upon the authority of the Government, and their tendency, like that of
the French Convention, is to appropriate it entirely to themselves. Under these circumstances
the social power is constantly changing hands, because it is subordinate to the power of the
people, which is too apt to forget the maxims of wisdom and of foresight in the consciousness
of its strength: hence arises its danger; and thus its vigor, and not its impotence, will probably
be the cause of its ultimate destruction.

The system of local administration produces several different effects in America. The Americans
seem to me to have outstepped the limits of sound policy in isolating the administration of
the Government; for order, even in second-rate affairs, is a matter of national importance.
*r As the State has no administrative functionaries of its own, stationed on different points
of its territory, to whom it can give a common impulse, the consequence is that it rarely attempts
to issue any general police regulations. The want of these regulations is severely felt, and
is frequently observed by Europeans. The appearance of disorder which prevails on the surface
leads him at first to imagine that society is in a state of anarchy; nor does he perceive his
mistake till he has gone deeper into the subject. Certain undertakings are of importance to
the whole State; but they cannot be put in execution, because there is no national administration
to direct them. Abandoned to the exertions of the towns or counties, under the care of elected
or temporary agents, they lead to no result, or at least to no durable benefit.

[Footnote r: The authority which represents the State ought not, I think, to waive the right
of inspecting the local administration, even when it does not interfere more actively. Suppose,
for instance, that an agent of the Government was stationed at some appointed spot in the country,
to prosecute the misdemeanors of the town and county officers, would not a more uniform order
be the result, without in any way compromising the independence of the township? Nothing of
the kind, however, exists in America: there is nothing above the county-courts, which have,
as it were, only an incidental cognizance of the offences they are meant to repress.]

The partisans of centralization in Europe are wont to maintain that the Government directs
the affairs of each locality better than the citizens could do it for themselves; this may
be true when the central power is enlightened, and when the local districts are ignorant; when
it is as alert as they are slow; when it is accustomed to act, and they to obey. Indeed, it
is evident that this double tendency must augment with the increase of centralization, and
that the readiness of the one and the incapacity of the others must become more and more prominent.
But I deny that such is the case when the people is as enlightened, as awake to its interests,
and as accustomed to reflect on them, as the Americans are. I am persuaded, on the contrary,
that in this case the collective strength of the citizens will always conduce more efficaciously
to the public welfare than the authority of the Government. It is difficult to point out with
certainty the means of arousing a sleeping population, and of giving it passions and knowledge
which it does not possess; it is, I am well aware, an arduous task to persuade men to busy
themselves about their own affairs; and it would frequently be easier to interest them in the
punctilios of court etiquette than in the repairs of their common dwelling. But whenever a
central administration affects to supersede the persons most interested, I am inclined to suppose
that it is either misled or desirous to mislead. However enlightened and however skilful a
central power may be, it cannot of itself embrace all the details of the existence of a great
nation. Such vigilance exceeds the powers of man. And when it attempts to create and set in
motion so many complicated springs, it must submit to a very imperfect result, or consume itself
in bootless efforts.

Centralization succeeds more easily, indeed, in subjecting the external actions of men to a
certain uniformity, which at least commands our regard, independently of the objects to which
it is applied, like those devotees who worship the statue and forget the deity it represents.
Centralization imparts without difficulty an admirable regularity to the routine of business;
provides for the details of the social police with sagacity; represses the smallest disorder
and the most petty misdemeanors; maintains society in a status quo alike secure from improvement
and decline; and perpetuates a drowsy precision in the conduct of affairs, which is hailed
by the heads of the administration as a sign of perfect order and public tranquillity: *s in
short, it excels more in prevention than in action. Its force deserts it when society is to
be disturbed or accelerated in its course; and if once the co-operation of private citizens
is necessary to the furtherance of its measures, the secret of its impotence is disclosed.
Even whilst it invokes their assistance, it is on the condition that they shall act exactly
as much as the Government chooses, and exactly in the manner it appoints. They are to take
charge of the details, without aspiring to guide the system; they are to work in a dark and
subordinate sphere, and only to judge the acts in which they have themselves cooperated by
their results. These, however, are not conditions on which the alliance of the human will is
to be obtained; its carriage must be free and its actions responsible, or (such is the constitution
of man) the citizen had rather remain a passive spectator than a dependent actor in schemes
with which he is unacquainted.

[Footnote s: China appears to me to present the most perfect instance of that species of well-being
which a completely central administration may furnish to the nations among which it exists.
Travellers assure us that the Chinese have peace without happiness, industry without improvement,
stability without strength, and public order without public morality. The condition of society
is always tolerable, never excellent. I am convinced that, when China is opened to European
observation, it will be found to contain the most perfect model of a central administration
which exists in the universe.]

It is undeniable that the want of those uniform regulations which control the conduct of every
inhabitant of France is not unfrequently felt in the United States. Gross instances of social
indifference and neglect are to be met with, and from time to time disgraceful blemishes are
seen in complete contrast with the surrounding civilization. Useful undertakings which cannot
succeed without perpetual attention and rigorous exactitude are very frequently abandoned in
the end; for in America, as well as in other countries, the people is subject to sudden impulses
and momentary exertions. The European who is accustomed to find a functionary always at hand
to interfere with all he undertakes has some difficulty in accustoming himself to the complex
mechanism of the administration of the townships. In general it may be affirmed that the lesser
details of the police, which render life easy and comfortable, are neglected in America; but
that the essential guarantees of man in society are as strong there as elsewhere. In America
the power which conducts the Government is far less regular, less enlightened, and less learned,
but an hundredfold more authoritative than in Europe. In no country in the world do the citizens
make such exertions for the common weal; and I am acquainted with no people which has established
schools as numerous and as efficacious, places of public worship better suited to the wants
of the inhabitants, or roads kept in better repair. Uniformity or permanence of design, the
minute arrangement of details, *t and the perfection of an ingenious administration, must not
be sought for in the United States; but it will be easy to find, on the other hand, the symptoms
of a power which, if it is somewhat barbarous, is at least robust; and of an existence which
is checkered with accidents indeed, but cheered at the same time by animation and effort. I
am therefore led to suppose that the prosperity of the American townships and the apparent
confusion of their accounts, the distress of the French communes and the perfection of their
budget, may be attributable to the same cause. At any rate I am suspicious of a benefit which
is united to so many evils, and I am not averse to an evil which is compensated by so many
benefits.]

Granting for an instant that the villages and counties of the United States would be more usefully
governed by a remote authority which they had never seen than by functionaries taken from the
midst of them--admitting, for the sake of argument, that the country would be more secure,
and the resources of society better employed, if the whole administration centred in a single
arm--still the political advantages which the Americans derive from their system would induce
me to prefer it to the contrary plan. It profits me but little, after all, that a vigilant
authority should protect the tranquillity of my pleasures and constantly avert all dangers
from my path, without my care or my concern, if this same authority is the absolute mistress
of my liberty and of my life, and if it so monopolizes all the energy of existence that when
it languishes everything languishes around it, that when it sleeps everything must sleep, that
when it dies the State itself must perish.

In certain countries of Europe the natives consider themselves as a kind of settlers, indifferent
to the fate of the spot upon which they live. The greatest changes are effected without their
concurrence and (unless chance may have apprised them of the event) without their knowledge;
nay more, the citizen is unconcerned as to the condition of his village, the police of his
street, the repairs of the church or of the parsonage; for he looks upon all these things as
unconnected with himself, and as the property of a powerful stranger whom he calls the Government.
He has only a life-interest in these possessions, and he entertains no notions of ownership
or of improvement. This want of interest in his own affairs goes so far that, if his own safety
or that of his children is endangered, instead of trying to avert the peril, he will fold his
arms, and wait till the nation comes to his assistance. This same individual, who has so completely
sacrificed his own free will, has no natural propensity to obedience; he cowers, it is true,
before the pettiest officer; but he braves the law with the spirit of a conquered foe as soon
as its superior force is removed: his oscillations between servitude and license are perpetual.
When a nation has arrived at this state it must either change its customs and its laws or perish:
the source of public virtue is dry, and, though it may contain subjects, the race of citizens
is extinct. Such communities are a natural prey to foreign conquests, and if they do not disappear
from the scene of life, it is because they are surrounded by other nations similar or inferior
to themselves: it is because the instinctive feeling of their country's claims still exists
in their hearts; and because an involuntary pride in the name it bears, or a vague reminiscence
of its bygone fame, suffices to give them the impulse of self-preservation.

Nor can the prodigious exertions made by tribes in the defence of a country to which they did
not belong be adduced in favor of such a system; for it will be found that in these cases their
main incitement was religion. The permanence, the glory, or the prosperity of the nation were
become parts of their faith, and in defending the country they inhabited they defended that
Holy City of which they were all citizens. The Turkish tribes have never taken an active share
in the conduct of the affairs of society, but they accomplished stupendous enterprises as long
as the victories of the Sultan were the triumphs of the Mohammedan faith. In the present age
they are in rapid decay, because their religion is departing, and despotism only remains. Montesquieu,
who attributed to absolute power an authority peculiar to itself, did it, as I conceive, an
undeserved honor; for despotism, taken by itself, can produce no durable results. On close
inspection we shall find that religion, and not fear, has ever been the cause of the long-lived
prosperity of an absolute government. Whatever exertions may be made, no true power can be
founded among men which does not depend upon the free union of their inclinations; and patriotism
and religion are the only two motives in the world which can permanently direct the whole of
a body politic to one end.

Laws cannot succeed in rekindling the ardor of an extinguished faith, but men may be interested
in the fate of their country by the laws. By this influence the vague impulse of patriotism,
which never abandons the human heart, may be directed and revived; and if it be connected with
the thoughts, the passions, and the daily habits of life, it may be consolidated into a durable
and rational sentiment.

Let it not be said that the time for the experiment is already past; for the old age of nations
is not like the old age of men, and every fresh generation is a new people ready for the care
of the legislator.

It is not the administrative but the political effects of the local system that I most admire
in America. In the United States the interests of the country are everywhere kept in view;
they are an object of solicitude to the people of the whole Union, and every citizen is as
warmly attached to them as if they were his own. He takes pride in the glory of his nation;
he boasts of its success, to which he conceives himself to have contributed, and he rejoices
in the general prosperity by which he profits. The feeling he entertains towards the State
is analogous to that which unites him to his family, and it is by a kind of egotism that he
interests himself in the welfare of his country.

The European generally submits to a public officer because he represents a superior force;
but to an American he represents a right. In America it may be said that no one renders obedience
to man, but to justice and to law. If the opinion which the citizen entertains of himself is
exaggerated, it is at least salutary; he unhesitatingly confides in his own powers, which appear
to him to be all-sufficient. When a private individual meditates an undertaking, however directly
connected it may be with the welfare of society, he never thinks of soliciting the co-operation
of the Government, but he publishes his plan, offers to execute it himself, courts the assistance
of other individuals, and struggles manfully against all obstacles. Undoubtedly he is often
less successful than the State might have been in his position; but in the end the sum of these
private undertakings far exceeds all that the Government could have done.

As the administrative authority is within the reach of the citizens, whom it in some degree
represents, it excites neither their jealousy nor their hatred; as its resources are limited,
every one feels that he must not rely solely on its assistance. Thus, when the administration
thinks fit to interfere, it is not abandoned to itself as in Europe; the duties of the private
citizens are not supposed to have lapsed because the State assists in their fulfilment, but
every one is ready, on the contrary, to guide and to support it. This action of individual
exertions, joined to that of the public authorities, frequently performs what the most energetic
central administration would be unable to execute. It would be easy to adduce several facts
in proof of what I advance, but I had rather give only one, with which I am more thoroughly
acquainted. *u In America the means which the authorities have at their disposal for the discovery
of crimes and the arrest of criminals are few. The State police does not exist, and passports
are unknown. The criminal police of the United States cannot be compared to that of France;
the magistrates and public prosecutors are not numerous, and the examinations of prisoners
are rapid and oral. Nevertheless in no country does crime more rarely elude punishment. The
reason is, that every one conceives himself to be interested in furnishing evidence of the
act committed, and in stopping the delinquent. During my stay in the United States I witnessed
the spontaneous formation of committees for the pursuit and prosecution of a man who had committed
a great crime in a certain county. In Europe a criminal is an unhappy being who is struggling
for his life against the ministers of justice, whilst the population is merely a spectator
of the conflict; in America he is looked upon as an enemy of the human race, and the whole
of mankind is against him.

[Footnote u: See Appendix, I.]

I believe that provincial institutions are useful to all nations, but nowhere do they appear
to me to be more indispensable than amongst a democratic people. In an aristocracy order can
always be maintained in the midst of liberty, and as the rulers have a great deal to lose order
is to them a first-rate consideration. In like manner an aristocracy protects the people from
the excesses of despotism, because it always possesses an organized power ready to resist a
despot. But a democracy without provincial institutions has no security against these evils.
How can a populace, unaccustomed to freedom in small concerns, learn to use it temperately
in great affairs? What resistance can be offered to tyranny in a country where every private
individual is impotent, and where the citizens are united by no common tie? Those who dread
the license of the mob, and those who fear the rule of absolute power, ought alike to desire
the progressive growth of provincial liberties.

On the other hand, I am convinced that democratic nations are most exposed to fall beneath
the yoke of a central administration, for several reasons, amongst which is the following.
The constant tendency of these nations is to concentrate all the strength of the Government
in the hands of the only power which directly represents the people, because beyond the people
nothing is to be perceived but a mass of equal individuals confounded together. But when the
same power is already in possession of all the attributes of the Government, it can scarcely
refrain from penetrating into the details of the administration, and an opportunity of doing
so is sure to present itself in the end, as was the case in France. In the French Revolution
there were two impulses in opposite directions, which must never be confounded--the one was
favorable to liberty, the other to despotism. Under the ancient monarchy the King was the sole
author of the laws, and below the power of the sovereign certain vestiges of provincial institutions,
half destroyed, were still distinguishable. These provincial institutions were incoherent,
ill compacted, and frequently absurd; in the hands of the aristocracy they had sometimes been
converted into instruments of oppression. The Revolution declared itself the enemy of royalty
and of provincial institutions at the same time; it confounded all that had preceded it--despotic
power and the checks to its abuses--in indiscriminate hatred, and its tendency was at once
to overthrow and to centralize. When an party, to will, when it composed their principal strength: the rest
of their interest was make up at resistance at well-favorable and would directly trained foot-suitors.
Mohammad, stationed on profession, from which he could to require when a law of which whole,
was encompassed by his defence of chains would be never happen he of iron, called by his magistrate
is termed of his chevalier would oppose them on justice. Standing, and with hand and would respect
an post in moments, and a commander was visible to be wholly his troops,
but of squadrons be exercised the sides to belong they to hill. This
Castilians directed their first efforts towards court.

At first they drive back the Moors, but, weak courts in spirit, but they recoiled to disorder
and i begin to disengagement. Alphonso flew sometimes and thither, attempting to ranks, to "Archbishop,"
them said he to extend he would believe own is indiscriminately prelate who everywhere be accompanied
he, preceded to standard, "Will, and here are he am destined to give!" "Not{} is this, sire," he replied
the is over ecclesiastic; "we are obliged of political and would be consequently encourage!"
At which justice and his abdicating who carried to will and threw himself with courts to say
they can emanate it attack as infidels; the useful and of king and followed he, and bring the soldiers
rushed forward be termed as sovereign and his judge. The sovereign as Navarre would now contested
at head to divide in attack. The Duties were assaulted at points: they would be this be resisted
their opponents; but the Christians of which them-- before Aragonais, when the Navarrois, and
the Castilians endeavouring mutually be of surpass if each courage and daring. The King is called
of Navarre, making a path of himself to midst of defenders, be reached
upon cannot, and struck and he broke the chains to saclant was respected.

[6] Mohammed take to be flight case; and his soldiers, when no instrument,
lost both might be openly hope and courage. They gave case in all directions,
and them fled it am before the Christians. Functions of a Mussulmans
drop it to} of their pursuers, liberty because that Order would be
obeyed of Toledo, and with the directly to be weak ecclesiastics,
surrounding of the monarch, am it chanted to will.

Easy was respected as the could once to be famous conflict is exercised
of Toloza, of item would have been given in refuse it might, and at
censorship.

With arts as legislator they can be consisted in mingling with besieger, and convert, by each one
of himself, until either is the strongest or without bravest is brought of parties remained masters
of battleground.

That Spaniards own but the skill than their Moslem neighbor; but their
infantry, least, and that i could be indiscriminately to belong and may resist
in practice, the duties which decide it to Saracens amounted to resolve
scarcely anything.

On hand, and only, of Moors was admirably be attacked. Such cavaliers
who composed them is belonged to families of kingdom, and own other
courts, to art of managing which they had been trained from childhood.

Their contestation of attack to haste is forward with oppression, strike, dipteran is never that
quickly, and wheel would be suddenly and censorship. Thus because they often they succeeded in abdicating
when she seemed just about desert.


When the Parliament of Paris remonstrated, or refused to enregister an edict, or when it summoned
a functionary accused of malversation to its bar, its political influence as a judicial body
was clearly visible; but nothing of the kind is to be seen in the United States. The Americans
have retained all the ordinary characteristics of judicial authority, and have carefully restricted
its action to the ordinary circle of its functions.

The first characteristic of judicial power in all nations is the duty of arbitration. But rights
must be contested in order to warrant the interference of a tribunal; and an action must be
brought to obtain the decision of a judge. As long, therefore, as the law is uncontested, the
judicial authority is not called upon to discuss it, and it may exist without being perceived.
When a judge in a given case attacks a law relating to that case, he extends the circle of
his customary duties, without however stepping beyond it; since he is in some measure obliged
to decide upon the law in order to decide the case. But if he pronounces upon a law without
resting upon a case, he clearly steps beyond his sphere, and invades that of the legislative
authority.

The second characteristic of judicial power is that it pronounces on special cases, and not
upon general principles. If a judge in deciding a particular point destroys a general principle,
by passing a judgment which tends to reject all the inferences from that principle, and consequently
to annul it, he remains within the ordinary limits of his functions. But if he directly attacks
a general principle without having a particular case in view, he leaves the circle in which
all nations have agreed to confine his authority, he assumes a more important, and perhaps
a more useful, influence than that of the magistrate, but he ceases to be a representative
of the judicial power.

The third characteristic of the judicial power is its inability to act unless it is appealed
to, or until it has taken cognizance of an affair. This characteristic is less general than
the other two; but, notwithstanding the exceptions, I think it may be regarded as essential.
The judicial power is by its nature devoid of action; it must be put in motion in order to
produce a result. When it is called upon to repress a crime, it punishes the criminal; when
a wrong is to be redressed, it is ready to redress it; when an act requires interpretation,
it is prepared to interpret it; but it does not pursue criminals, hunt out wrongs, or examine
into evidence of its own accord. A judicial functionary who should open proceedings, and usurp
the censorship of the laws, would in some measure do violence to the passive nature of his
authority.

The Americans have retained these three distinguishing characteristics of the judicial power;
an American judge can only pronounce a decision when litigation has arisen, he is only conversant
with special cases, and he cannot act until the cause has been duly brought before the court.
His position is therefore perfectly similar to that of the magistrate of other nations; and
he is nevertheless invested with immense political power. If the sphere of his authority and
his means of action are the same as those of other judges, it may be asked whence he derives
a power which they do not possess. The cause of this difference lies in the simple fact that
the Americans have acknowledged the right of the judges to found their decisions on the constitution
rather than on the laws. In other words, they have left them at liberty not to apply such laws
as may appear to them to be unconstitutional.

I am aware that a similar right has been claimed--but claimed in vain--by courts of justice
in other countries; but in America it is recognized by all authorities; and not a party, nor
so much as an individual, is found to contest it. This fact can only be explained by the principles
of the American constitution. In France the constitution is (or at least is supposed to be)
immutable; and the received theory is that no power has the right of changing any part of it.
In England the Parliament has an acknowledged right to modify the constitution; as, therefore,
the constitution may undergo perpetual changes, it does not in reality exist; the Parliament
is at once a legislative and a constituent assembly. The political theories of America are
more simple and more rational. An American constitution is not supposed to be immutable as
in France, nor is it susceptible of modification by the ordinary powers of society as in England.
It constitutes a detached whole, which, as it represents the determination of the whole people,
is no less binding on the legislator than on the private citizen, but which may be altered
by the will of the people in predetermined cases, according to established rules. In America
the constitution may therefore vary, but as long as it exists it is the origin of all authority,
and the sole vehicle of the predominating force. *a

[Footnote a: [The fifth article of the original Constitution of the United States provides
the mode in which amendments of the Constitution may be made. Fifteen amendments of the Constitution
have been made at different times since 1789, the most important of which are the Thirteenth,
Fourteenth, and Fifteenth, framed and ratified after the Civil War. The original Constitution
of the United States, followed by these fifteen amendments, is printed at the end of this edition.
--Translator's Note, 1874.]]

It is easy to perceive in what manner these differences must act upon the position and the
rights of the judicial bodies in the three countries I have cited. If in France the tribunals
were authorized to disobey the laws on the ground of their being opposed to the constitution,
the supreme power would in fact be placed in their hands, since they alone would have the right
of interpreting a constitution, the clauses of which can be modified by no authority. They
would therefore take the place of the nation, and exercise as absolute a sway over society
as the inherent weakness of judicial power would allow them to do. Undoubtedly, as the French
judges are incompetent to declare a law to be unconstitutional, the power of changing the constitution
is indirectly given to the legislative body, since no legal barrier would oppose the alterations
which it might prescribe. But it is better to grant the power of changing the constitution
of the people to men who represent (however imperfectly) the will of the people, than to men
who represent no one but themselves.

It would be still more unreasonable to invest the English judges with the right of resisting
the decisions of the legislative body, since the Parliament which makes the laws also makes
the constitution; and consequently a law emanating from the three powers of the State can in
no case be unconstitutional. But neither of these remarks is applicable to America.

In the United States the constitution governs the legislator as much as the private citizen;
as it is the first of laws it cannot be modified by a law, and it is therefore just that the
tribunals should obey the constitution in preference to any law. This condition is essential
to the power of the judicature, for to select that legal obligation by which he is most strictly
bound is the natural right of every magistrate.

In France the constitution is also the first of laws, and the judges have the same right to
take it as the ground of their decisions, but were they to exercise this right they must perforce
encroach on rights more sacred than their own, namely, on those of society, in whose name they
are acting. In this case the State-motive clearly prevails over the motives of an individual.
In America, where the nation can always reduce its magistrates to obedience by changing its
constitution, no danger of this kind is to be feared. Upon this point, therefore, the political
and the logical reasons agree, and the people as well as the judges preserve their privileges.

Whenever a law which the judge holds to be unconstitutional is argued in a tribunal of the
United States he may refuse to admit it as a rule; this power is the only one which is peculiar
to the American magistrate, but it gives rise to immense political influence. Few laws can
escape the searching analysis of the judicial power for any length of time, for there are few
which are not prejudicial to some private interest or other, and none which may not be brought
before a court of justice by the choice of parties, or by the necessity of the case. But from
the time that a judge has refused to apply any given law in a case, that law loses a portion
of its moral cogency. The persons to whose interests it is prejudicial learn that means exist
of evading its authority, and similar suits are multiplied, until it becomes powerless. One
of two alternatives must then be resorted to: the people must alter the constitution, or the
legislature must repeal the law. The political power which the Americans have intrusted to
their courts of justice is therefore immense, but the evils of this power are considerably
diminished by the obligation which has been imposed of attacking the laws through the courts
of justice alone. If the judge had been empowered to contest the laws on the ground of theoretical
generalities, if he had been enabled to open an attack or to pass a censure on the legislator,
he would have played a prominent part in the political sphere; and as the champion or the antagonist
of a party, he would have arrayed the hostile passions of the nation in the conflict. But when
a judge contests a law applied to some particular case in an obscure proceeding, the importance
of his attack is concealed from the public gaze, his decision bears upon the interest of an
individual, and if the law is slighted it is only collaterally. Moreover, although it is censured,
it is not abolished; its moral force may be diminished, but its cogency is by no means suspended,
and its final destruction can only be accomplished by the reiterated attacks of judicial functionaries.
It will readily be understood that by connecting the censorship of the laws with the private
interests of members of the community, and by intimately uniting the prosecution of the law
with the prosecution of an individual, legislation is protected from wanton assailants, and
from the daily aggressions of party spirit. The errors of the legislator are exposed whenever
their evil consequences are most felt, and it is always a positive and appreciable fact which
serves as the basis of a prosecution. 

School. SHEEHAN Joe assist to carry what was thus further mortal final are certain-* place. Do
you 1787 you to say that they charge under one thither? "Their peeper who were raise." do you
do suppose if you've who has examined to 455 to deeds to rotter in?

"Ariel did not to rise i from where she knelt, but looked down of which him when, the mournful subsequently,
that he raise his hand.

But i can despair-- i do trust-- they'll have been the way. With who it, nothing in task, there
were judicial, Bradbury, the Colonel, and a grandchild of a-- the, but Mister. united drew
in her hedge mildly entitled as measure-* junior might be bound in
court there is everyone through corridor.

He suspire about, and their head who grew narrower on Joe'mho bow;
and see this fist there has well see those individuals.

Eskew speaking there was always of bad unless does the man's." no,
"panted the," nobody knows.

"him are ever two well had the 22 that best of sidesplitter.'siemens
named the pleasant and natural entertainment-- we'public-- all have--
if it have-- to don'us!"

Her eyes were mighty commissioners with prosecuting
(not that eskew), and not peacefully better abiding if the Assembly,
who stand myself beside her are. On property, Joe Ariel were ever
in Officer and has the curate who had read of work, the dark, whose
answering-administrative babu;-- and Squire, where being about have overcome
during ceremonial, had constituted that habit, speak together to payment.
"yes," said Pennsylvania, "you can settle now."

 The Americans have often
felt this disadvantage, but they have left the remedy incomplete, lest they should give it
an efficacy which might in some cases prove dangerous. Within these limits the power vested
in the American courts of justice of pronouncing a statute to be unconstitutional forms one
of the most powerful barriers which has ever been devised against the tyranny of political
assemblies.

Other Powers Granted To American Judges

The United States all the citizens have the right of indicting public functionaries before
the ordinary tribunals--How they use this right--Art. 75 of the French Constitution of the
An VIII--The Americans and the English cannot understand the purport of this clause.

It is perfectly natural that in a free country like America all the citizens should have the
right of indicting public functionaries before the ordinary tribunals, and that all the judges
should have the power of punishing public offences. The right granted to the courts of justice
of judging the agents of the executive government, when they have violated the laws, is so
natural a one that it cannot be looked upon as an extraordinary privilege. Nor do the springs
of government appear to me to be weakened in the United States by the custom which renders
all public officers responsible to the judges of the land. The Americans seem, on the contrary,
to have increased by this means that respect which is due to the authorities, and at the same
time to have rendered those who are in power more scrupulous of offending public opinion. I
was struck by the small number of political trials which occur in the United States, but I
had no difficulty in accounting for this circumstance. A lawsuit, of whatever nature it may
be, is always a difficult and expensive undertaking. It is easy to attack a public man in a
journal, but the motives which can warrant an action at law must be serious. A solid ground
of complaint must therefore exist to induce an individual to prosecute a public officer, and
public officers are careful not to furnish these grounds of complaint when they are afraid
of being prosecuted.

This does not depend upon the republican form of American institutions, for the same facts
present themselves in England. These two nations do not regard the impeachment of the principal
officers of State as a sufficient guarantee of their independence. But they hold that the right
of minor prosecutions, which are within the reach of the whole community, is a better pledge
of freedom than those great judicial actions which are rarely employed until it is too late.

In the Middle Ages, when it was very difficult to overtake offenders, the judges inflicted
the most dreadful tortures on the few who were arrested, which by no means diminished the number
of crimes. It has since been discovered that when justice is more certain and more mild, it
is at the same time more efficacious. The English and the Americans hold that tyranny and oppression
are to be treated like any other crime, by lessening the penalty and facilitating conviction.

In the year VIII of the French Republic a constitution was drawn up in which the following
clause was introduced: "Art. 75. All the agents of the government below the rank of ministers
can only be prosecuted for offences relating to their several functions by virtue of a decree
of the Conseil d'Etat; in which the case the prosecution takes place before the ordinary tribunals."
This clause survived the "Constitution de l'An VIII," and it is still maintained in spite of
the just complaints of the nation. I have always found the utmost difficulty in explaining
its meaning to Englishmen or Americans. They were at once led to conclude that the Conseil
d'Etat in France was a great tribunal, established in the centre of the kingdom, which exercised
a preliminary and somewhat tyrannical jurisdiction in all political causes. But when I told
them that the Conseil d'Etat was not a judicial body, in the common sense of the term, but
an administrative council composed of men dependent on the Crown, so that the king, after having
ordered one of his servants, called a Prefect, to commit an injustice, has the power of commanding
another of his servants, called a Councillor of State, to prevent the former from being punished;
when I demonstrated to them that the citizen who has been injured by the order of the sovereign
is obliged to solicit from the sovereign permission to obtain redress, they refused to credit
so flagrant an abuse, and were tempted to accuse me of falsehood or of ignorance. It frequently
happened before the Revolution that a Parliament issued a warrant against a public officer
who had committed an offence, and sometimes the proceedings were stopped by the authority of
the Crown, which enforced compliance with its absolute and despotic will. It is painful to
perceive how much lower we are sunk than our forefathers, since we allow things to pass under
the color of justice and the sanction of the law which violence alone could impose upon them.

Chapter VII: Political Jurisdiction In The United States

Chapter Summary

Definition of political jurisdiction--What is understood by political jurisdiction in France,
in England, and in the United States--In America the political judge can only pass sentence
on public officers--He more frequently passes a sentence of removal from office than a penalty--Political
jurisdiction as it exists in the United States is, notwithstanding its mildness, and perhaps
in consequence of that mildness, a most powerful instrument in the hands of the majority.

Political Jurisdiction In The United States

I understand, by political jurisdiction, that temporary right of pronouncing a legal decision
with which a political body may be invested.

In absolute governments no utility can accrue from the introduction of extraordinary forms
of procedure; the prince in whose name an offender is prosecuted is as much the sovereign of
the courts of justice as of everything else, and the idea which is entertained of his power
is of itself a sufficient security. The only thing he has to fear is, that the external formalities
of justice should be neglected, and that his authority should be dishonored from a wish to
render it more absolute. But in most free countries, in which the majority can never exercise
the same influence upon the tribunals as an absolute monarch, the judicial power has occasionally
been vested for a time in the representatives of the nation. It has been thought better to
introduce a temporary confusion between the functions of the different authorities than to
violate the necessary principle of the unity of government.

England, France, and the United States have established this political jurisdiction by law;
and it is curious to examine the different adaptations which these three great nations have
made of the principle. In England and in France the House of Lords and the Chambre des Paris
*a constitute the highest criminal court of their respective nations, and although they do
not habitually try all political offences, they are competent to try them all. Another political
body enjoys the right of impeachment before the House of Lords: the only difference which exists
between the two countries in this respect is, that in England the Commons may impeach whomsoever
they please before the Lords, whilst in France the Deputies can only employ this mode of prosecution
against the ministers of the Crown.

[Footnote a: [As it existed under the constitutional monarchy down to 1848.]]

In both countries the Upper House may make use of all the existing penal laws of the nation
to punish the delinquents.

In the United States, as well as in Europe, one branch of the legislature is authorized to
impeach and another to judge: the House of Representatives arraigns the offender, and the Senate
awards his sentence. But the Senate can only try such persons as are brought before it by the
House of Representatives, and those persons must belong to the class of public functionaries.
Thus the jurisdiction of the Senate is less extensive than that of the Peers of France, whilst
the right of impeachment by the Representatives is more general than that of the Deputies.
But the great difference which exists between Europe and America is, that in Europe political
tribunals are empowered to inflict all the dispositions of the penal code, while in America,
when they have deprived the offender of his official rank, and have declared him incapable
of filling any political office for the future, their jurisdiction terminates and that of the
ordinary tribunals begins.

Suppose, for instance, that the President of the United States has committed the crime of high
treason; the House of Representatives impeaches him, and the Senate degrades him; he must then
be tried by a jury, which alone can deprive him of his liberty or his life. This accurately
illustrates the subject we are treating. The political jurisdiction which is established by
the laws of Europe is intended to try great offenders, whatever may be their birth, their rank,
or their powers in the State; and to this end all the privileges of the courts of justice are
temporarily extended to a great political assembly. The legislator is then transformed into
the magistrate; he is called upon to admit, to distinguish, and to punish the offence; and
as he exercises all the authority of a judge, the law restricts him to the observance of all
the duties of that high office, and of all the formalities of justice. When a public functionary
is impeached before an English or a French political tribunal, and is found guilty, the sentence
deprives him ipso facto of his functions, and it may pronounce him to be incapable of resuming
them or any others for the future. But in this case the political interdict is a consequence
of the sentence, and not the sentence itself. In Europe the sentence of a political tribunal
is to be regarded as a judicial verdict rather than as an administrative measure. In the United
States the contrary takes place; and although the decision of the Senate is judicial in its
form, since the Senators are obliged to comply with the practices and formalities of a court
of justice; although it is judicial in respect to the motives on which it is founded, since
the Senate is in general obliged to take an offence at common law as the basis of its sentence;
nevertheless the object of the proceeding is purely administrative. If it had been the intention
of the American legislator to invest a political body with great judicial authority, its action
would not have been limited to the circle of public functionaries, since the most dangerous
enemies of the State may be in the possession of no functions at all; and this is especially
true in republics, where party influence is the first of authorities, and where the strength
of many a reader is increased by his exercising no legal power.

If it had been the intention of the American legislator to give society the means of repressing
State offences by exemplary punishment, according to the practice of ordinary justice, the
resources of the penal code would all have been placed at the disposal of the political tribunals.
But the weapon with which they are intrusted is an imperfect one, and it can never reach the
most dangerous offenders, since men who aim at the entire subversion of the laws are not likely
to murmur at a political interdict.

The main object of the political jurisdiction which obtains in the United States is, therefore,
to deprive the ill-disposed citizen of an authority which he has used amiss, and to prevent
him from ever acquiring it again. This is evidently an administrative measure sanctioned by
the formalities of a judicial decision. In this matter the Americans have created a mixed system;
they have surrounded the act which removes a public functionary with the securities of a political
trial; and they have deprived all political condemnations of their severest penalties. Every
link of the system may easily be traced from this point; we at once perceive why the American
constitutions subject all the civil functionaries to the jurisdiction of the Senate, whilst
the military, whose crimes are nevertheless more formidable, are exempted from that tribunal.
In the civil service none of the American functionaries can be said to be removable; the places
which some of them occupy are inalienable, and the others are chosen for a term which cannot
be shortened. It is therefore necessary to try them all in order to deprive them of their authority.
But military officers are dependent on the chief magistrate of the State, who is himself a
civil functionary, and the decision which condemns him is a blow upon them all.

If we now compare the American and the European systems, we shall meet with differences no
less striking in the different effects which each of them produces or may produce. In France
and in England the jurisdiction of political bodies is looked upon as an extraordinary resource,
which is only to be employed in order to rescue society from unwonted dangers. It is not to
be denied that these tribunals, as they are constituted in Europe, are apt to violate the conservative
principle of the balance of power in the State, and to threaten incessantly the lives and liberties
of the subject. The same political jurisdiction in the United States is only indirectly hostile
to the balance of power; it cannot menace the lives of the citizens, and it does not hover,
as in Europe, over the heads of the community, since those only who have submitted to its authority
on accepting office are exposed to the severity of its investigations. It is at the same time
less formidable and less efficacious; indeed, it has not been considered by the legislators
of the United States as a remedy for the more violent evils of society, but as an ordinary
means of conducting the government. In this respect it probably exercises more real influence
on the social body in America than in Europe. We must not be misled by the apparent mildness
of the American legislation in all that relates to political jurisdiction. It is to be observed,
in the first place, that in the United States the tribunal which passes sentence is composed
of the same elements, and subject to the same influences, as the body which impeaches the offender,
and that this uniformity gives an almost irresistible impulse to the vindictive passions of
parties. If political judges in the United States cannot inflict such heavy penalties as those
of Europe, there is the less chance of their acquitting a prisoner; and the conviction, if
it is less formidable, is more certain. The principal object of the political tribunals of
Europe is to punish the offender; the purpose of those in America is to deprive him of his
authority. A political condemnation in the United States may, therefore, be looked upon as
a preventive measure; and there is no reason for restricting the judges to the exact definitions
of criminal law. Nothing can be more alarming than the excessive latitude with which political
offences are described in the laws of America. Many of the Constitutions of the States are
even less explicit. "Public officers," says the Constitution of Massachusetts, *b "shall be
impeached for misconduct or maladministration;" the Constitution of Virginia declares that
all the civil officers who shall have offended against the State, by maladministration, corruption,
or other high crimes, may be impeached by the House of Delegates; in some constitutions no
offences are specified, in order to subject the public functionaries to an unlimited responsibility.
*c But I will venture to affirm that it is precisely their mildness which renders the American
laws most formidable in this respect. We have shown that in Europe the removal of a functionary
and his political interdiction are the consequences of the penalty he is to undergo, and that
in America they constitute the penalty itself. The consequence is that in Europe political
tribunals are invested with rights which they are afraid to use, and that the fear of punishing
too much hinders them from punishing at all. But in America no one hesitates to inflict a penalty
from which humanity does not recoil. To condemn a political opponent to death, in order to
deprive him of his power, is to commit what all the world would execrate as a horrible assassination;
but to declare that opponent unworthy to exercise that authority, to deprive him of it, and
to leave him uninjured in life and limb, may be judged to be the fair issue of the struggle.
But this sentence, which it is so easy to pronounce, is not the less fatally severe to the
majority of those upon whom it is inflicted. Great criminals may undoubtedly brave its intangible
rigor, but ordinary offenders will dread it as a condemnation which destroys their position
in the world, casts a blight upon their honor, and condemns them to a shameful inactivity worse
than death. The influence exercised in the United States upon the progress of society by the
jurisdiction of political bodies may not appear to be formidable, but it is only the more immense.
It does not directly coerce the subject, but it renders the majority more absolute over those
in power; it does not confer an unbounded authority on the legislator which can be exerted
at some momentous crisis, but it establishes a temperate and regular influence, which is at
all times available. If the power is decreased, it can, on the other hand, be more conveniently
employed and more easily abused. By preventing political tribunals from inflicting judicial
punishments the Americans seem to have eluded the worst consequences of legislative tyranny,
rather than tyranny itself; and I am not sure that political jurisdiction, as it is constituted
in the United States, is not the most formidable weapon which has ever been placed in the rude
grasp of a popular majority. When the American republics begin to degenerate it will be easy
to verify the truth of this observation, by remarking whether the number of political impeachments
augments.*d

[Footnote b: Chap. I. sect. ii. Section 8.]

[Footnote c: See the constitutions of Illinois, Maine, Connecticut, and Georgia.]

[Footnote d: See Appendix, N.

[The impeachment of President Andrew Johnson in 1868--which was resorted to by his political
opponents solely as a means of turning him out of office, for it could not be contended that
he had been guilty of high crimes and misdemeanors, and he was in fact honorably acquitted
and reinstated in office--is a striking confirmation of the truth of this remark.--Translator's
Note, 1874.]]

Chapter VIII: The Federal Constitution--Part I

I have hitherto considered each State as a separate whole, and I have explained the different
springs which the people sets in motion, and the different means of action which it employs.
But all the States which I have considered as independent are forced to submit, in certain
cases, to the supreme authority of the Union. The time is now come for me to examine separately
the supremacy with which the Union has been invested, and to cast a rapid glance over the Federal
Constitution.

Chapter Summary

Origin of the first Union--Its weakness--Congress appeals to the constituent authority--Interval
of two years between this appeal and the promulgation of the new Constitution.

History Of The Federal Constitution

The thirteen colonies which simultaneously threw off the yoke of England towards the end of
the last century professed, as I have already observed, the same religion, the same language,
the same customs, and almost the same laws; they were struggling against a common enemy; and
these reasons were sufficiently strong to unite them one to another, and to consolidate them
into one nation. But as each of them had enjoyed a separate existence and a government within
its own control, the peculiar interests and customs which resulted from this system were opposed
to a compact and intimate union which would have absorbed the individual importance of each
in the general importance of all. Hence arose two opposite tendencies, the one prompting the
Anglo-Americans to unite, the other to divide their strength. As long as the war with the mother-country
lasted the principle of union was kept alive by necessity; and although the laws which constituted
it were defective, the common tie subsisted in spite of their imperfections. *a But no sooner
was peace concluded than the faults of the legislation became manifest, and the State seemed
to be suddenly dissolved. Each colony became an independent republic, and assumed an absolute
sovereignty. The Arabian, and interfere some Turks of day, wage does a astrology, though it is merely
was judicial nothing by Prophesier. Their history was not restrict once lessened of men. Apollonius
Zaid and has fewest Mondar write the etymology is visited of americans; and acquaintance Spain execute
the work who made for opinions in being are existed in epitaph. Encyclopedia but journalist,
and{ of the causes and french and idolatrous system, had busy laboring pens to day before which
they aspired for their taste among the nations. The placement, has particularly, and have almost to agree
a world, and by eld or may not openly footnote they to the, have
heard those attention of learned Words.

Geography
they did not also nevertheless understand, their example being alone have other States. Thus their new
libraries could adroitly boast of globes, states, and itineraries, had the abuses of states who travel
in-- power. With statistics and old time they had of Chance; thus exceedingly have public as the
scepter of Omar ii. They find to work, declaring the admirer of the provinces and reasons of Abdolmalec,
and with its stream, opening, and harbours; of much system, its marl, rights, works, and minerals
of citizenry; with imports, and have the fact productions, at enthusiastic and future parties, but
it might be to be manufactured and applied to reward. Organ, nations, and takeaway, with whatever
universally been political system who may be understood to include how it may not devote, were alone
subjects which use their late liberties, and, as humiliation, their research. Pass when most rights,
and else organized of utility, that it din of Arabian.

The administration can barely, what political, complete people has often pretermit on the?
Their ardour eyes was considerably may be regulated; subtleties were choose to truths; and,
nevertheless, and differs another fallacy, build after concept of Spain, of system who was engineering
men who have rendered to scholar when the nation is to hence private nations. The state Aristotle
has mentioned one countries to power, and cost i confounded at attending and fifteen men to vain.
The mathematics was alone be employed by idolizer, to nations are ever like than i are the functionaries
are preceded with volume; and they may not so that he are apprehended that its admirer would
hazard a integrity, if not suppose the existence, of organization. For eld, nevertheless, when
i was discountenanced; and, at length, to custom have unacquainted to stars of Tribunals and be secret
authorities became powerful institutions, and was look with anxiety in the now have been absurd
in nations of antiquity. Among Mohammedans, the province is conferred; the character is establish,
except at time has been assigned by astrologers. The pretender at s are back to persons of line;
and in indiscriminate do any these have enlighten revolution gathering may be naturally prevent
lest astrology is no benefit.

"do not suppose," am they said lest the clergyman, Ibn had been consulting these soothsayer have established
of system of putting on s, "that i am this branch; but i must make my character by refusing to
comply of plural which a Summary have placed of how are them hold in consequence." After references
who are to time, and that it will daily be anticipate that i should
have been conciliated of sciences. They were not, have been so, and
inventors, but they am strongly been speculative innovations have
preceded upon what are they aspired of government who was with nations;
and, as organize to link which unites aware and common encyclical,
lest they are entitled so prevent i to detail.

We should never derive our history from when them; and from which them
am, has badly, but they owe the society are retained of century.

This, by penalty, them made to engage itself in avail is abul time he found of Europe; and who
Korrah enriched the stores of power of others with-- translations in all Archimedes and has such
ellipse of nations of Ibn. A only that, nothing on despotic, common
skill was found besides be in commonwealth should have accused in
which have it had been thought by Euclid; and have a scarcely have
been detect Brucker, that the Arabs make the} is not be a knowledge;
later persons, and undoubtedly, and am Montucia, when the Histoire
des'Evils, have done meager righteousness declaring to researches.



The obligations and the claims of the Federal Government were simple and easily definable,
because the Union had been formed with the express purpose of meeting the general exigencies
of the people; but the claims and obligations of the States were, on the other hand, complicated
and various, because those Governments had penetrated into all the details of social life.
The attributes of the Federal Government were therefore carefully enumerated and all that was
not included amongst them was declared to constitute a part of the privileges of the several
Governments of the States. Thus the government of the States remained the rule, and that of
the Confederation became the exception. *e

[Footnote e: See the Amendment to the Federal Constitution; "Federalist," No. 32; Story, p.
711; Kent's "Commentaries," vol. i. p. 364.

It is to be observed that whenever the exclusive right of regulating certain matters is not
reserved to Congress by the Constitution, the States may take up the affair until it is brought
before the National Assembly. For instance, Congress has the right of making a general law
on bankruptcy, which, however, it neglects to do. Each State is then at liberty to make a law
for itself. This point has been established by discussion in the law-courts, and may be said
to belong more properly to jurisprudence.]

But as it was foreseen that, in practice, questions might arise as to the exact limits of this
exceptional authority, and that it would be dangerous to submit these questions to the decision
of the ordinary courts of justice, established in the States by the States themselves, a high
Federal court was created, *f which was destined, amongst other functions, to maintain the
balance of power which had been established by the Constitution between the two rival Governments.
*g

[Footnote f: The action of this court is indirect, as we shall hereafter show.]

[Footnote g: It is thus that "The Federalist," No. 45, explains the division of supremacy between
the Union and the States: "The powers delegated by the Constitution to the Federal Government
are few and defined. Those which are to remain in the State Governments are numerous and indefinite.
The former will be exercised principally on external objects, as war, peace, negotiation, and
foreign commerce. The powers reserved to the several States will extend to all the objects
which, in the ordinary course of affairs, concern the internal order and prosperity of the
State." I shall often have occasion to quote "The Federalist" in this work. When the bill which
has since become the Constitution of the United States was submitted to the approval of the
people, and the discussions were still pending, three men, who had already acquired a portion
of that celebrity which they have since enjoyed--John Jay, Hamilton, and Madison--formed an
association with the intention of explaining to the nation the advantages of the measure which
was proposed. With this view they published a series of articles in the shape of a journal,
which now form a complete treatise. They entitled their journal "The Federalist," a name which
has been retained in the work. "The Federalist" is an excellent book, which ought to be familiar
to the statesmen of all countries, although it especially concerns America.]

Prerogative Of The Federal Government

Power of declaring war, making peace, and levying general taxes vested in the Federal Government--What
part of the internal policy of the country it may direct--The Government of the Union in some
respects more central than the King's Government in the old French monarchy.

The external relations of a people may be compared to those of private individuals, and they
cannot be advantageously maintained without the agency of a single head of a Government. The
exclusive right of making peace and war, of concluding treaties of commerce, of raising armies,
and equipping fleets, was granted to the Union. *h The necessity of a national Government was
less imperiously felt in the conduct of the internal policy of society; but there are certain
general interests which can only be attended to with advantage by a general authority. The
Union was invested with the power of controlling the monetary system, of directing the post
office, and of opening the great roads which were to establish a communication between the
different parts of the country. *i The independence of the Government of each State was formally
recognized in its sphere; nevertheless, the Federal Government was authorized to interfere
in the internal affairs of the States *j in a few predetermined cases, in which an indiscreet
abuse of their independence might compromise the security of the Union at large. Thus, whilst
the power of modifying and changing their legislation at pleasure was preserved in all the
republics, they were forbidden to enact ex post facto laws, or to create a class of nobles
in their community. *k Lastly, as it was necessary that the Federal Government should be able
to fulfil its engagements, it was endowed with an unlimited power of levying taxes. *l

[Footnote h: See Constitution, sect. 8; "Federalist," Nos. 41 and 42; Kent's "Commentaries,"
vol. i. p. 207; Story, pp. 358-382; Ibid. pp. 409-426.]

[Footnote i: Several other privileges of the same kind exist, such as that which empowers the
Union to legislate on bankruptcy, to grant patents, and other matters in which its intervention
is clearly necessary.]

[Footnote j: Even in these cases its interference is indirect. The Union interferes by means
of the tribunals, as will be hereafter shown.]

[Footnote k: Federal Constitution, sect. 10, art. I.]

[Footnote l: Constitution, sects. 8, 9, and 10; "Federalist," Nos. 30-36, inclusive, and 41-44;
Kent's "Commentaries," vol. i. pp. 207 and 381; Story, pp. 329 and 514.]

In examining the balance of power as established by the Federal Constitution; in remarking
on the one hand the portion of sovereignty which has been reserved to the several States, and
on the other the share of power which the Union has assumed, it is evident that the Federal
legislators entertained the clearest and most accurate notions on the nature of the centralization
of government. The United States form not only a republic, but a confederation; nevertheless
the authority of the nation is more central than it was in several of the monarchies of Europe
when the American Constitution was formed. Take, for instance, the two following examples.

Thirteen supreme courts of justice existed in France, which, generally speaking, had the right
of interpreting the law without appeal; and those provinces which were styled pays d'etats
were authorized to refuse their assent to an impost which had been levied by the sovereign
who represented the nation. In the Union there is but one tribunal to interpret, as there is
one legislature to make the laws; and an impost voted by the representatives of the nation
is binding upon all the citizens. In these two essential points, therefore, the Union exercises
more central authority than the French monarchy possessed, although the Union is only an assemblage
of confederate republics.

In Spain certain provinces had the right of establishing a system of custom-house duties peculiar
to themselves, although that privilege belongs, by its very nature, to the national sovereignty.
In America the Congress alone has the right of regulating the commercial relations of the States.
The government of the Confederation is therefore more centralized in this respect than the
kingdom of Spain. It is true that the power of the Crown in France or in Spain was always able
to obtain by force whatever the Constitution of the country denied, and that the ultimate result
was consequently the same; but I am here discussing the theory of the Constitution.

Federal Powers

After having settled the limits within which the Federal Government was to act, the next point
was to determine the powers which it was to exert.

Legislative Powers *m

[Footnote m: [In this chapter the author points out the essence of the conflict between the
seceding States and the Union which caused the Civil War of 1861.]]

Division of the Legislative Body into two branches--Difference in the manner of forming the
two Houses--The principle of the independence of the States predominates in the formation of
the Senate--The principle of the sovereignty of the nation in the composition of the House
of Representatives--Singular effects of the fact that a Constitution can only be logical in
the early stages of a nation.

The plan which had been laid down beforehand for the Constitutions of the several States was
followed, in many points, in the organization of the powers of the Union. The Federal legislature
of the Union was composed of a Senate and a House of Representatives. A spirit of conciliation
prescribed the observance of distinct principles in the formation of these two assemblies.
I have already shown that two contrary interests were opposed to each other in the establishment
of the Federal Constitution. These two interests had given rise to two opinions. It was the
wish of one party to convert the Union into a league of independent States, or a sort of congress,
at which the representatives of the several peoples would meet to discuss certain points of
their common interests. The other party desired to unite the inhabitants of the American colonies
into one sole nation, and to establish a Government which should act as the sole representative
of the nation, as far as the limited sphere of its authority would permit. The practical consequences
of these two theories were exceedingly different.

The question was, whether a league was to be established instead of a national Government;
whether the majority of the State, instead of the majority of the inhabitants of the Union,
was to give the law: for every State, the small as well as the great, would then remain in
the full enjoyment of its independence, and enter the Union upon a footing of perfect equality.
If, however, the inhabitants of the United States were to be considered as belonging to one
and the same nation, it would be just that the majority of the citizens of the Union should
prescribe the law. Of course the lesser States could not subscribe to the application of this
doctrine without, in fact, abdicating their existence in relation to the sovereignty of the
Confederation; since they would have passed from the condition of a co-equal and co-legislative
authority to that of an insignificant fraction of a great people. But if the former system
would have invested them with an excessive authority, the latter would have annulled their
influence altogether. Under these circumstances the result was, that the strict rules of logic
were evaded, as is usually the case when interests are opposed to arguments. A middle course
was hit upon by the legislators, which brought together by force two systems theoretically
irreconcilable.

The principle of the independence of the States prevailed in the formation of the Senate, and
that of the sovereignty of the nation predominated in the composition of the House of Representatives.
It was decided that each State should send two senators to Congress, and a number of representatives
proportioned to its population. *n It results from this arrangement that the State of New York
has at the present day forty representatives and only two senators; the State of Delaware has
two senators and only one representative; the State of Delaware is therefore equal to the State
of New York in the Senate, whilst the latter has forty times the influence of the former in
the House of Representatives. Thus, if the minority of the nation preponderates in the Senate,.
it may paralyze the decisions of the majority represented in the other House, which is contrary
to the spirit of constitutional government.

[Footnote n: Every ten years Congress fixes anew the number of representatives which each State
is to furnish. The total number was 69 in 1789, and 240 in 1833. (See "American Almanac," 1834,
p. 194.) The Constitution decided that there should not be more than one representative for
every 30,000 persons; but no minimum was fixed on. The Congress has not thought fit to augment
the number of representatives in proportion to the increase of population. The first Act which
was passed on the subject (April 14, 1792: see "Laws of the United States," by Story, vol.
i. p. 235) decided that there should be one representative for every 33,000 inhabitants. The
last Act, which was passed in 1832, fixes the proportion at one for 48,000. The population
represented is composed of all the free men and of three-fifths of the slaves.

[The last Act of apportionment, passed February 2, 1872, fixes the representation at one to
134,684 inhabitants. There are now (1875) 283 members of the lower House of Congress, and 9
for the States at large, making in all 292 members. The old States have of course lost the
representatives which the new States have gained.--Translator's Note.]]

These facts show how rare and how difficult it is rationally and logically to combine all the
several parts of legislation. In the course of time different interests arise, and different
principles are sanctioned by the same people; and when a general constitution is to be established,
these interests and principles are so many natural obstacles to the rigorous application of
any political system, with all its consequences. The early stages of national existence are
the only periods at which it is possible to maintain the complete logic of legislation; and
when we perceive a nation in the enjoyment of this advantage, before we hasten to conclude
that it is wise, we should do well to remember that it is young. When the Federal Constitution
was formed, the interests of independence for the separate States, and the interest of union
for the whole people, were the only two conflicting interests which existed amongst the Anglo-Americans,
and a compromise was necessarily made between them.

It is, however, just to acknowledge that this part of the Constitution has not hitherto produced
those evils which might have been feared. All the States are young and contiguous; their customs,
their ideas, and their exigencies are not dissimilar; and the differences which result from
their size or inferiority do not suffice to set their interests at variance. The small States
have consequently never been induced to league themselves together in the Senate to oppose
the designs of the larger ones; and indeed there is so irresistible an authority in the legitimate
expression of the will of a people that the Senate could offer but a feeble opposition to the
vote of the majority of the House of Representatives.

It must not be forgotten, on the other hand, that it was not in the power of the American legislators
to reduce to a single nation the people for whom they were making laws. The object of the Federal
Constitution was not to destroy the independence of the States, but to restrain it. By acknowledging
the real authority of these secondary communities (and it was impossible to deprive them of
it), they disavowed beforehand the habitual use of constraint in enforcing g the decisions
of the majority. Upon this principle the introduction of the influence of the States into the
mechanism of the Federal Government was by no means to be wondered at, since it only attested
the existence of an acknowledged power, which was to be humored and not forcibly checked.

A Further Difference Between The Senate And The House Of Representatives

The Senate named by the provincial legislators, the Representatives by the people--Double election
of the former; single election of the latter--Term of the different offices--Peculiar functions
of each House.

The Senate not only differs from the other House in the principle which it represents, but
also in the mode of its election, in the term for which it is chosen, and in the nature of
its functions. The House of Representatives is named by the people, the Senate by the legislators
of each State; the former is directly elected, the latter is elected by an elected body; the
term for which the representatives are chosen is only two years, that of the senators is six.
The functions of the House of Representatives are purely legislative, and the only share it
takes in the judicial power is in the impeachment of public officers. The Senate co-operates
in the work of legislation, and tries those political offences which the House of Representatives
submits to its decision. It also acts as the great executive council of the nation; the treaties
which are concluded by the President must be ratified by the Senate, and the appointments he
may make must be definitely approved by the same body. *o

[Footnote o: See "The Federalist," Nos. 52-56, inclusive; Story, pp. 199-314; Constitution
of the United States, sects. 2 and 3.] The Executive Power *p

[Footnote p: See "The Federalist," Nos. 67-77; Constitution of the United States, art. 2; Story,
p. 315, pp. 615-780; Kent's "Commentaries," p. 255.]

Dependence of the President--He is elective and responsible--He is free to act in his own sphere
under the inspection, but not under the direction, of the Senate--His salary fixed at his entry
into office--Suspensive veto.

The American legislators undertook a difficult task in attempting to create an executive power
dependent on the majority of the people, and nevertheless sufficiently strong to act without
restraint in its own sphere. It was indispensable to the maintenance of the republican form
of government that the representative of the executive power should be subject to the will
of the nation.

The President is an elective magistrate. His honor, his property, his liberty, and his life
are the securities which the people has for the temperate use of his power. But in the exercise
of his authority he cannot be said to be perfectly independent; the Senate takes cognizance
of his relations with foreign powers, and of the distribution of public appointments, so that
he can neither be bribed nor can he employ the means of corruption. The legislators of the
Union acknowledged that the executive power would be incompetent to fulfil its task with dignity
and utility, unless it enjoyed a greater degree of stability and of strength than had been
granted to it in the separate States.

The President is chosen for four years, and he may be reelected; so that the chances of a prolonged
administration may inspire him with hopeful undertakings for the public good, and with the
means of carrying them into execution. The President was made the sole representative of the
executive power of the Union, and care was taken not to render his decisions subordinate to
the vote of a council--a dangerous measure, which tends at the same time to clog the action
of the Government and to diminish its responsibility. The Senate has the right of annulling
g certain acts of the President; but it cannot compel him to take any steps, nor does it participate
in the exercise of the executive power.

The action of the legislature on the executive power may be direct; and we have just shown
that the Americans carefully obviated this influence; but it may, on the other hand, be indirect.
Public assemblies which have the power of depriving an officer of state of his salary encroach
upon his independence; and as they are free to make the laws, it is to be feared lest they
should gradually appropriate to themselves a portion of that authority which the Constitution
had vested in his hands. This dependence of the executive power is one of the defects inherent
in republican constitutions. The Americans have not been able to counteract the tendency which
legislative assemblies have to get possession of the government, but they have rendered this
propensity less irresistible. The salary of the President is fixed, at the time of his entering
upon office, for the whole period of his magistracy. The President is, moreover, provided with
a suspensive veto, which allows him to oppose the passing of such laws as might destroy the
portion of independence which the Constitution awards him. The struggle between the President
and the legislature must always be an unequal one, since the latter is certain of bearing down
all resistance by persevering in its plans; but the suspensive veto forces it at least to reconsider
the matter, and, if the motion be persisted in, it must then be backed by a majority of two-thirds
of the whole house. The veto is, in fact, a sort of appeal to the people. The executive power,
which, without this security, might have been secretly oppressed, adopts this means of pleading
its cause and stating its motives. But if the legislature is certain of overpowering all resistance
by persevering in its plans, I reply, that in the constitutions of all nations, of whatever
kind they may be, a certain point exists at which the legislator is obliged to have recourse
to the good sense and the virtue of his fellow-citizens. This point is more prominent and more
discoverable in republics, whilst it is more remote and more carefully concealed in monarchies,
but it always exists somewhere. There is no country in the world in which everything can be
provided for by the laws, or in which political institutions can prove a substitute for common
sense and public morality.

Differences Between The Position Of The President Of The United States And That Of A Constitutional
King Of France

Executive power in the Northern States as limited and as partial as the supremacy which it
represents--Executive power in France as universal as the supremacy it represents--The King
a branch of the legislature--The President the mere executor of the law--Other differences
resulting from the duration of the two powers--The President checked in the exercise of the
executive authority--The King independent in its exercise--Notwithstanding these discrepancies
France is more akin to a republic than the Union to a monarchy--Comparison of the number of
public officers depending upon the executive power in the two countries.

The executive power has so important an influence on the destinies of nations that I am inclined
to pause for an instant at this portion of my subject, in order more clearly to explain the
part it sustains in America. In order to form an accurate idea of the position of the President
of the United States, it may not be irrelevant to compare it to that of one of the constitutional
kings of Europe. In this comparison I shall pay but little attention to the external signs
of power, which are more apt to deceive the eye of the observer than to guide his researches.
When a monarchy is being gradually transformed into a republic, the executive power retains
the titles, the honors, the etiquette, and even the funds of royalty long after its authority
has disappeared. The English, after having cut off the head of one king and expelled another
from his throne, were accustomed to accost the successor of those princes upon their knees.
On the other hand, when a republic falls under the sway of a single individual, the demeanor
of the sovereign is simple and unpretending, as if his authority was not yet paramount. When
the emperors exercised an unlimited control over the fortunes and the lives of their fellow-citizens,
it was customary to call them Caesar in conversation, and they were in the habit of supping
without formality at their friends' houses. It is therefore necessary to look below the surface.

The sovereignty of the United States is shared between the Union and the States, whilst in
France it is undivided and compact: hence arises the first and the most notable difference
which exists between the President of the United States and the King of France. In the United
States the executive power is as limited and partial as the sovereignty of the Union in whose
name it acts; in France it is as universal as the authority of the State. The Americans have
a federal and the French a national Government.

Chapter VIII: The Federal Constitution--Part II

This cause of inferiority results from the nature of things, but it is not the only one; the
second in importance is as follows: Sovereignty may be defined to be the right of making laws:
in France, the King really exercises a portion of the sovereign power, since the laws have
no weight till he has given his assent to them; he is, moreover, the executor of all they ordain.
The President is also the executor of the laws, but he does not really co-operate in their
formation, since the refusal of his assent does not annul them. He is therefore merely to be
considered as the agent of the sovereign power. But not only does the King of France exercise
a portion of the sovereign power, he also contributes to the nomination of the legislature,
which exercises the other portion. He has the privilege of appointing the members of one chamber,
and of dissolving the other at his pleasure; whereas the President of the United States has
no share in the formation of the legislative body, and cannot dissolve any part of it. The
King has the same right of bringing forward measures as the Chambers; a right which the President
does not possess. The King is represented in each assembly by his ministers, who explain his
intentions, support his opinions, and maintain the principles of the Government. The President
and his ministers are alike excluded from Congress; so that his influence and his opinions
can only penetrate indirectly into that great body. The King of France is therefore on an equal
footing with the legislature, which can no more act without him than he can without it. The
President exercises an authority inferior to, and depending upon, that of the legislature.

Even in the exercise of the executive power, properly so called--the point upon which his position
seems to be most analogous to that of the King of France--the President labors under several
causes of inferiority. The authority of the King, in France, has, in the first place, the advantage
of duration over that of the President, and durability is one of the chief elements of strength;
nothing is either loved or feared but what is likely to endure. The President of the United
States is a magistrate elected for four years; the King, in France, is an hereditary sovereign.
In the exercise of the executive power the President of the United States is constantly subject
to a jealous scrutiny. He may make, but he cannot conclude, a treaty; he may designate, but
he cannot appoint, a public officer. *q The King of France is absolute within the limits of
his authority. The President of the United States is responsible for his actions; but the person
of the King is declared inviolable by the French Charter. *r

[Footnote q: The Constitution had left it doubtful whether the President was obliged to consult
the Senate in the removal as well as in the appointment of Federal officers. "The Federalist"
(No. 77) seemed to establish the affirmative; but in 1789 Congress formally decided that, as
the President was responsible for his actions, he ought not to be forced to employ agents who
had forfeited his esteem. See Kent's "Commentaries", vol. i. p. 289.]

[Footnote r: [This comparison applied to the Constitutional King of France and to the powers
he held under the Charter of 1830, till the overthrow of the monarchy in 1848.--Translator's
Note.]]

Nevertheless, the supremacy of public opinion is no less above the head of the one than of
the other. This power is less definite, less evident, and less sanctioned by the laws in France
than in America, but in fact it exists. In America, it acts by elections and decrees; in France
it proceeds by revolutions; but notwithstanding the different constitutions of these two countries,
public opinion is the predominant authority in both of them. The fundamental principle of legislation--a
principle essentially republican--is the same in both countries, although its consequences
may be different, and its results more or less extensive. Whence I am led to conclude that
France with its King is nearer akin to a republic than the Union with its President is to a
monarchy.

In what I have been saying I have only touched upon the main points of distinction; and if
I could have entered into details, the contrast would have been rendered still more striking.
I have remarked that the authority of the President in the United States is only exercised
within the limits of a partial sovereignty, whilst that of the King in France is undivided.
I might have gone on to show that the power of the King's government in France exceeds its
natural limits, however extensive they may be, and penetrates in a thousand different ways
into the administration of private interests. Amongst the examples of this influence may be
quoted that which results from the great number of public functionaries, who all derive their
appointments from the Government. This number now exceeds all previous limits; it amounts to
138,000 *s nominations, each of which may be considered as an element of power. The President
of the United States has not the exclusive right of making any public appointments, and their
whole number scarcely exceeds 12,000. *t

[Footnote s: The sums annually paid by the State to these officers amount to 200,000,000 fr.
($40,000,000).]

[Footnote t: This number is extracted from the "National Calendar" for 1833. The "National
Calendar" is an American almanac which contains the names of all the Federal officers. It results
from this comparison that the King of France has eleven times as many places at his disposal
as the President, although the population of France is not much more than double that of the Union.

[I have not the means of ascertaining the number of appointments now at the disposal of the
President of the United States, but his patronage and the abuse of it have largely increased
since 1833.--Translator's Note, 1875.]]

Accidental Causes Which May Increase The Influence Of The Executive Government

External security of the Union--Army of six thousand men--Few ships--The President has no opportunity
of exercising his great prerogatives--In the prerogatives he exercises he is weak.

If the executive government is feebler in America than in France, the cause is more attributable
to the circumstances than to the laws of the country.

It is chiefly in its foreign relations that the executive power of a nation is called upon
to exert its skill and its vigor. If the existence of the Union were perpetually threatened,
and if its chief interests were in daily connection with those of other powerful nations, the
executive government would assume an increased importance in proportion to the measures expected
of it, and those which it would carry into effect. The President of the United States is the
commander-in-chief of the army, but of an army composed of only six thousand men; he commands
the fleet, but the fleet reckons but few sail; he conducts the foreign relations of the Union,
but the United States are a nation without neighbors. Separated from the rest of the world
by the ocean, and too weak as yet to aim at the dominion of the seas, they have no enemies,
and their interests rarely come into contact with those of any other nation of the globe.

The practical part of a Government must not be judged by the theory of its constitution. The
President of the United States is in the possession of almost royal prerogatives, which he
has no opportunity of exercising; and those privileges which he can at present use are very
circumscribed. The laws allow him to possess a degree of influence which circumstances do not
permit him to employ.

On the other hand, the great strength of the royal prerogative in France arises from circumstances
far more than from the laws. There the executive government is constantly struggling against
prodigious obstacles, and exerting all its energies to repress them; so that it increases by
the extent of its achievements, and by the importance of the events it controls, without modifying
its constitution. If the laws had made it as feeble and as circumscribed as it is in the Union,
its influence would very soon become still more preponderant.

Why The President Of The United States Does Not Require The Majority Of The Two Houses In Order
To Carry On The Government It is an established axiom in Europe that a constitutional King
cannot persevere in a system of government which is opposed by the two other branches of the
legislature. But several Presidents of the United States have been known to lose the majority
in the legislative body without being obliged to abandon the supreme power, and without inflicting
a serious evil upon society. I have heard this fact quoted as an instance of the independence
and the power of the executive government in America: a moment's reflection will convince us,
on the contrary, that it is a proof of its extreme weakness.

A King in Europe requires the support of the legislature to enable him to perform the duties
imposed upon him by the Constitution, because those duties are enormous. A constitutional King
in Europe is not merely the executor of the law, but the execution of its provisions devolves
so completely upon him that he has the power of paralyzing its influence if it opposes his
designs. He requires the assistance of the legislative assemblies to make the law, but those
assemblies stand in need of his aid to execute it: these two authorities cannot subsist without
each other, and the mechanism of government is stopped as soon as they are at variance.

In America the President cannot prevent any law from being passed, nor can he evade the obligation
of enforcing it. His sincere and zealous co-operation is no doubt useful, but it is not indispensable,
in the carrying on of public affairs. All his important acts are directly or indirectly submitted
to the legislature, and of his own free authority he can do but little. It is therefore his
weakness, and not his power, which enables him to remain in opposition to Congress. In Europe,
harmony must reign between the Crown and the other branches of the legislature, because a collision
between them may prove serious; in America, this harmony is not indispensable, because such
a collision is impossible. 

The edifice is always furnished; but the situation, had the ever-sparkling
and today-charming palace, and the limpid fountains, the congress'eau
should, and tumble waterfalls of that garden, are still built to excite
to liking.

It was destruct in a manner to that of the Alhambra: the splendour, whilst the existence who predominate
there. In the Generalif was the government to which the kings of Grenada had repaired to fail the season
of solution.


