"I had no such meaning," said the Lady, gently; "nor am I the proud woman you term me. Alas!
my own fortunes might have taught me humility, even had it not been born with me."

The old woman seemed somewhat to relax her tone of severity.

"You are of gentle blood," she said, "else we had not parleyed thus long together.--You are
of gentle blood, and to such," she added, drawing up her tall form as she spoke, "pride is
as graceful as is the plume upon the bonnet. But for these pieces of gold, lady, you must needs
resume them. I need not money. I am well provided; and I may not care for myself, nor think
how, or by whom, I shall be sustained. Farewell, and keep your word. Cause your gates to be
opened, and your bridges to be lowered. I will set forward this very night. When I come again,
I will demand from you a strict account, for I have left with you the jewel of my life! Sleep
will visit me but in snatches, food will not refresh me, rest will not restore my strength,
until I see Roland Graeme. Once more, farewell."

"Make your obeisance, dame," said Lilias to Magdalen Graeme, as she retired, "make your obeisance
to her ladyship, and thank her for her goodness, as is but fitting and right."

The old woman turned short around on the officious waiting-maid. "Let her make her obeisance
to me then, and I will return it. Why should I bend to her?--is it because her kirtle is of
silk, and mine of blue lockeram?--Go to, my lady's waiting-woman. Know that the rank of the
man rates that of the wife, and that she who marries a churl's son, were she a king's daughter,
is but a peasant's bride."

Lilias was about to reply in great indignation, but her mistress imposed silence on her, and
commanded that the old woman should be safely conducted to the mainland.

"Conduct her safe!" exclaimed the incensed waiting-woman, while Magdalen Graeme left the apartment;
"I say, duck her in the loch, and then we will see whether she is witch or not, as every body
in the village of Lochside will say and swear. I marvel your ladyship could bear so long with
her insolence." But the commands of the Lady were obeyed, and the old dame, dismissed from
the castle, was committed to her fortune. She kept her word, and did not long abide in that
place, leaving the hamlet on the very night succeeding the interview, and wandering no one
asked whither. The Lady of Avenel inquired under what circumstances she had appeared among
them, but could only learn that she was believed to be the widow of some man of consequence
among the Graemes who then inhabited the Debateable Land, a name given to a certain portion
of territory which was the frequent subject of dispute betwixt Scotland and England--that she
had suffered great wrong in some of the frequent forays by which that unfortunate district
was wasted, and had been driven from her dwelling-place. She had arrived in the hamlet no one
knew for what purpose, and was held by some to be a witch, by others a zealous Protestant,
and by others again a Catholic devotee. Her language was mysterious, and her manners repulsive;
and all that could be collected from her conversation seemed to imply that she was under the
influence either of a spell or of a vow,--there was no saying which, since she talked as one
who acted under a powerful and external agency.

Such were the particulars which the Lady's inquiries were able to collect concerning Magdalen
Graeme, being far too meagre and contradictory to authorize any satisfactory deduction. In
truth, the miseries of the time, and the various turns of fate incidental to a frontier country,
were perpetually chasing from their habitations those who had not the means of defence or protection.
These wanderers in the land were too often seen, to excite much attention or sympathy. They
received the cold relief which was extorted by general feelings of humanity; a little excited
in some breasts, and perhaps rather chilled in others, by the recollection that they who gave
the charity to-day might themselves want it to-morrow. Magdalen Graeme, therefore, came and
departed like a shadow from the neighbourhood of Avenel Castle.

The boy whom Providence, as she thought, had thus strangely placed under her care, was at once
established a favourite with the Lady of the castle. How could it be otherwise? He became the
object of those affectionate feelings, which, finding formerly no object on which to expand
themselves, had increased the gloom of the castle, and imbittered the solitude of its mistress.
To teach him reading and writing as far as her skill went, to attend to his childish comforts,
to watch his boyish sports, became the Lady's favourite amusement. In her circumstances, where
the ear only heard the lowing of the cattle from the distant hills, or the heavy step of the
warder as he walked upon his post, or the half-envied laugh of her maiden as she turned her
wheel, the appearance of the blooming and beautiful boy gave an interest which can hardly be
conceived by those who live amid gayer and busier scenes. Young Roland was to the Lady of Avenel
what the flower, which occupies the window of some solitary captive, is to the poor wight by
whom it is nursed and cultivated,--something which at once excited and repaid her care; and
in giving the boy her affection, she felt, as it were, grateful to him for releasing her from
the state of dull apathy in which she had usually found herself during the absence of Sir Halbert
Glendinning.

But even the charms of this blooming favourite were unable to chase the recurring apprehensions
which arose from her husband's procrastinated return. Soon after Roland Graeme became a resident
at the castle, a groom, despatched by Sir Halbert, brought tidings that business still delayed
the Knight at the Court of Holyrood. The more distant period which the messenger had assigned
for his master's arrival at length glided away, summer melted into autumn, and autumn was about
to give place to winter, and yet he came not.

Chapter the Third.

 The waning harvest-moon shone broad and bright,
 The warder's horn was heard at dead of night,
 And while the portals-wide were flung,
 With trampling hoofs the rocky pavement rung.
                                         LEYDEN.

"And you, too, would be a soldier, Roland?" said the Lady of Avenel to her young charge, while,
seated on a stone chair at one end of the battlements, she saw the boy attempt, with a long
stick, to mimic the motions of the warder, as he alternately shouldered, or ported, or sloped pike.

"Yes, Lady," said the boy,--for he was now familiar, and replied to her questions with readiness
and alacrity,-"a soldier will I be; for there ne'er was gentleman but who belted him with the
brand."

"Thou a gentleman!" said Lilias, who, as usual, was in attendance; "such a gentleman as I would
make of a bean-cod with a rusty knife."

"Nay, chide him not, Lilias," said the Lady of Avenel, "for, beshrew me, but I think he comes
of gentle blood--see how it musters in his face at your injurious reproof."

"Had I my will, madam," answered Lilias, "a good birchen wand should make his colour muster
to better purpose still."

"On my word, Lilias," said the Lady, "one would think you had received harm from the poor boy--or
is he so far on the frosty side of your favour because he enjoys the sunny side of mine?"

"Over heavens forbode, my Lady!" answered Lilias; "I have lived too long with gentles, I praise
my stars for it, to fight with either follies or fantasies, whether they relate to beast, bird,
or boy."

Lilias was a favourite in her own class, a spoiled domestic, and often accustomed to take more
licence than her mistress was at all times willing to encourage. But what did not please the
Lady of Avenel, she did not choose to hear, and thus it was on the present occasion. She resolved
to look more close and sharply after the boy, who had hitherto been committed chiefly to the
management of Lilias. He must, she thought, be born of gentle blood; it were shame to think
otherwise of a form so noble, and features so fair;--the very wildness in which he occasionally
indulged, his contempt of danger, and impatience of restraint, had in them something noble;--assuredly
the child was born of high rank. Such was her conclusion, and she acted upon it accordingly.
The domestics around her, less jealous, or less scrupulous than Lilias, acted as servants usually
do, following the bias, and flattering, for their own purposes, the humour of the Lady; and
the boy soon took on him those airs of superiority, which the sight of habitual deference seldom
fails to inspire. It seemed, in truth, as if to command were his natural sphere, so easily
did he use himself to exact and receive compliance with his humours. The chaplain, indeed,
might have interposed to check the air of assumption which Roland Graeme so readily indulged,
and most probably would have willingly rendered him that favour; but the necessity of adjusting
with his brethren some disputed points of church discipline had withdrawn him for some time
from the castle, and detained him in a distant part of the kingdom.

Matters stood thus in the castle of Avenel, when a winded bugle sent its shrill and prolonged
notes from the shore of the lake, and was replied to cheerily by the signal of the warder.
The Lady of Avenel knew the sounds of her husband, and rushed to the window of the apartment
in which she was sitting. A band of about thirty spearmen, with a pennon displayed before them,
winded along the indented shores of the lake, and approached the causeway. A single horseman
rode at the head of the party, his bright arms catching a glance of the October sun as he moved
steadily along. Even at that distance, the Lady recognized the lofty plume, bearing the mingled
colours of her own liveries and those of Glendonwyne, blended with the holly-branch; and the
firm seat and dignified demeanour of the rider, joined to the stately motion of the dark-brown
steed, sufficiently announced Halbert Glendinning.

The Lady's first thought was that of rapturous joy at her husband's return--her second was
connected with a fear which had sometimes intruded itself, that he might not altogether approve
the peculiar distinction with which she had treated her orphan ward. In this fear there was
implied a consciousness, that the favour she had shown him was excessive; for Halbert Glendinning
was at least as gentle and indulgent, as he was firm and rational in the intercourse of his
household; and to her in particular, his conduct had ever been most affectionately tender.

Yet she did fear, that, on the present occasion, her conduct might incur Sir Halbert's censure;
and hastily resolving that she would not mention, the anecdote of the boy until the next day,
she ordered him to be withdrawn from the apartment by Lilias.

"I will not go with Lilias, madam," answered the spoiled child, who had more than once carried
his point by perseverance, and who, like his betters, delighted in the exercise of such authority,--"I
will not go to Lilias's gousty room--I will stay and see that brave warrior who comes riding
so gallantly along the drawbridge."

"You must not stay, Roland," said the Lady, more positively than she usually spoke to her little
favourite.

"I will," reiterated the boy, who had already felt his consequence, and the probable chance
of success.

"You will, Roland!" answered the Lady, "what manner of word is that? I tell you, you must go."

"Will," answered the forward boy, "is a word for a man, and must is no word for a lady."

"You are saucy, sirrah," said the Lady--"Lilias, take him with you instantly."

"I always thought," said Lilias, smiling, as she seized the reluctant boy by the arm, "that
my young master must give place to my old one."

"And you, too, are malapert, mistress!" said the Lady; "hath the moon changed, that ye all
of you thus forget yourselves?"

Lilias made no reply, but led off the boy, who, too proud to offer unavailing resistance, darted
at his benefactress a glance, which intimated plainly, how willingly he would have defied her
authority, had he possessed the power to make good his point.

The Lady of Avenel was vexed to find how much this trifling circumstance had discomposed her,
at the moment when she ought naturally to have been entirely engrossed by her husband's return.
But we do not recover composure by the mere feeling that agitation is mistimed. The glow of
displeasure had not left the Lady's cheek, her ruffled deportment was not yet entirely composed,
when her husband, unhelmeted, but still wearing the rest of his arms, entered the apartment.
His appearance banished the thoughts of every thing else; she rushed to him, clasped his iron-sheathed
frame in her arms, and kissed his martial and manly face with an affection which was at once
evident and sincere. The warrior returned her embrace and her caress with the same fondness;
for the time which had passed since their union had diminished its romantic ardour, perhaps,
but it had rather increased its rational tenderness, and Sir Halbert Glendinning's long and
frequent absences from his castle had prevented affection from degenerating by habit into indifference.

When the first eager greetings were paid and received, the Lady gazed fondly on her husband's
face as she remarked, "You are altered, Halbert--you have ridden hard and far to-day, or you
have been ill?"

"I have been well, Mary," answered the Knight, "passing well have I been; and a long ride is
to me, thou well knowest, but a thing of constant custom. Those who are born noble may slumber
out their lives within the walls of their castles and manor-houses; but he who hath achieved
nobility by his own deeds must ever be in the saddle, to show that he merits his advancement."

While he spoke thus, the Lady gazed fondly on him, as if endeavouring to read his inmost soul;
for the tone in which he spoke was that of melancholy depression.

Sir Halbert Glendinning was the same, yet a different person from what he had appeared in his
early years. The fiery freedom of the aspiring youth had given place to the steady and stern
composure of the approved soldier and skilful politician. There were deep traces of care on
those noble features, over which each emotion used formerly to pass, like light clouds across
a summer sky. That sky was now, not perhaps clouded, but still and grave, like that of the
sober autumn evening. The forehead was higher and more bare than in early youth, and the locks
which still clustered thick and dark on the warrior's head, were worn away at the temples,
not by age, but by the constant pressure of the steel cap, or helmet. His beard, according
to the fashion of the time, grew short and thick, and was turned into mustaches on the upper
lip, and peaked at the extremity. The cheek, weather-beaten and embrowned, had lost the glow
of youth, but showed the vigorous complexion of active and confirmed manhood. Halbert Glendinning
was, in a word, a knight to ride at a king's right hand, to bear his banner in war, and to
be his counsellor in time of peace; for his looks expressed the considerate firmness which
can resolve wisely and dare boldly. Still, over these noble features, there now spread an air
of dejection, of which, perhaps, the owner was not conscious, but which did not escape the
observation of his anxious and affectionate partner.

"Something has happened, or is about to happen," said the Lady of Avenel; "this sadness sits
not on your brow without cause--misfortune, national or particular, must needs be at hand."

"There is nothing new that I wot of," said Halbert Glendinning; "but there is little of evil
which can befall a kingdom, that may not be apprehended in this unhappy and divided realm."

"Nay, then," said the Lady, "I see there hath really been some fatal work on foot. My Lord
of Murray has not so long detained you at Holyrood, save that he wanted your help in some weighty
purpose."

"I have not been at Holyrood, Mary," answered the Knight; "I have been several weeks abroad."

"Abroad! and sent me no word?" replied the Lady.

"What would the knowledge have availed, but to have rendered you unhappy, my love?" replied
the Knight; "your thoughts would have converted the slightest breeze that curled your own lake,
into a tempest raging in the German ocean."

"And have you then really crossed the sea?" said the Lady, to whom the very idea of an element
which she had never seen conveyed notions of terror and of wonder,--"really left your own native
land, and trodden distant shores, where the Scottish tongue is unheard and unknown?"

"Really, and really," said the Knight, taking her hand in affectionate playfulness, "I have
done this marvellous deed--have rolled on the ocean for three days and three nights, with the
deep green waves dashing by the side of my pillow, and but a thin plank to divide me from it."

"Indeed, my Halbert," said the Lady, "that was a tempting of Divine Providence. I never bade
you unbuckle the sword from your side, or lay the lance from your hand--I never bade you sit
still when your honour called you to rise and ride; but are not blade and spear dangers enough
for one man's life, and why would you trust rough waves and raging seas?"

"We have in Germany, and in the Low Countries, as they are called," answered Glendinning, "men
who are united with us in faith, and with whom it is fitting we should unite in alliance. To
some of these I was despatched on business as important as it was secret. I went in safety,
and I returned in security; there is more danger to a man's life betwixt this and Holyrood,
than are in all the seas that wash the lowlands of Holland."

"And the country, my Halbert, and the people," said the Lady, "are they like our kindly Scots?
or what bearing have they to strangers?"

"They are a people, Mary, strong in their wealth, which renders all other nations weak, and
weak in those arts of war by which other nations are strong."

"I do not understand you," said the Lady.

"The Hollander and the Fleming, Mary, pour forth their spirit in trade, and not in war; their
wealth purchases them the arms of foreign soldiers, by whose aid they defend it. They erect
dikes on the sea-shore to protect the land which they have won, and they levy regiments of
the stubborn Switzers and hardy Germans to protect the treasures which they have amassed. And
thus they are strong in their weakness; for the very wealth which tempts their masters to despoil
them, arms strangers in their behalf."

"The slothful hinds!" exclaimed Mary, thinking and feeling like a Scotswoman of the period;
"have they hands, and fight not for the land which bore them? They should be notched off at
the elbow!"

"Nay, that were but hard justice," answered her husband; "for their hands serve their country,
though not in battle, like ours. Look at these barren hills, Mary, and at that deep winding
vale by which the cattle are even now returning from their scanty browse. The hand of the industrious
Fleming would cover these mountains with wood, and raise corn where we now see a starved and
scanty sward of heath and ling. It grieves me, Mary, when I look on that land, and think what
benefit it might receive from such men as I have lately seen--men who seek not the idle fame
derived from dead ancestors, or the bloody renown won in modern broils, but tread along the
land, as preservers and improvers, not as tyrants and destroyers."

"These amendments would here be but a vain fancy, my Halbert," answered the Lady of Avenel;
"the trees would be burned by the English foemen, ere they ceased to be shrubs, and the grain
that you raised would be gathered in by the first neighbour that possessed more riders than
follow your train. Why should you repine at this? The fate that made you Scotsman by birth,
gave you head, and heart, and hand, to uphold the name as it must needs be upheld."

"It gave me no name to uphold," said Halbert, pacing the floor slowly; "my arm has been foremost
in every strife--my voice has been heard in every council, nor have the wisest rebuked me.
The crafty Lethington, the deep and dark Morton, have held secret council with me, and Grange
and Lindsay have owned, that in the field I did the devoir of a gallant knight--but let the
emergence be passed when they need my head and hand, and they only know me as son of the obscure
portioner of Glendearg."

This was a theme which the Lady always dreaded; for the rank conferred on her husband, the
favour in which he was held by the powerful Earl of Murray, and the high talents by which he
vindicated his right to that rank and that favour, were qualities which rather increased than
diminished the envy which was harboured against Sir Halbert Glendinning among a proud aristocracy,
as a person originally of inferior and obscure birth, who had risen to his present eminence
solely by his personal merit. The natural firmness of his mind did not enable him to despise
the ideal advantages of a higher pedigree, which were held in such universal esteem by all
with whom he conversed; and so open are the noblest minds to jealous inconsistencies, that
there were moments in which he felt mortified that his lady should possess those advantages
of birth and high descent which he himself did not enjoy, and regretted that his importance
as the proprietor of Avenel was qualified by his possessing it only as the husband of the heiress.
He was not so unjust as to permit any unworthy feelings to retain permanent possession of his
mind, but yet they recurred from time to time, and did not escape his lady's anxious observation.

"Had we been blessed with children," she was wont on such occasions to say to herself, "had
our blood been united in a son who might have joined my advantages of descent with my husband's
personal worth, these painful and irksome reflections had not disturbed our union even for
a moment. But the existence of such an heir, in whom our affections, as well as our pretensions,
might have centred, has been denied to us."

With such mutual feelings, it cannot be wondered that it gave the Lady pain to hear her husband
verging towards this topic of mutual discontent. On the present, as on other similar occasions,
she endeavoured to divert the knight's thoughts from this painful channel.

"How can you," she said, "suffer yourself to dwell upon things which profit nothing? Have you
indeed no name to uphold? You, the good and the brave, the wise in council, and the strong
in battle, have you not to support the reputation your own deeds have won, a reputation more
honourable than mere ancestry can supply? Good men love and honour you, the wicked fear, and
the turbulent obey you; and is it not necessary you should exert yourself to ensure the endurance
of that love, that honour, and wholesome fear, and that necessary obedience?"

As she thus spoke, the eye of her husband caught from hers courage and comfort, and it lightened
as he took her hand and replied, "It is most true, my Mary, and I deserve thy rebuke, who forget
what I am, in repining because I am not what I cannot be. I am now what the most famed ancestors
of those I envy were, the mean man raised into eminence by his own exertions; and sure it is
a boast as honourable to have those capacities which are necessary to the foundation of a family,
as to be descended from one who possessed them some centuries before. The Hay of Loncarty,
who bequeathed his bloody yoke to his lineage,--the 'dark gray man,' who first founded the
house of Douglas, had yet less of ancestry to boast than I have. For thou knowest, Mary, that
my name derives itself from a line of ancient warriors, although my immediate forefathers preferred
the humble station in which thou didst first find them; and war and counsel are not less proper
to the house of Glendonwyne, even, in its most remote descendants, than to the proudest of
their baronage." [Footnote: This was a house of ancient descent and superior consequence, including
persons who fought at Bannockburn and Otterburn, and closely connected by alliance and friendship
with the great Earls of Douglas. The Knight in this story argues as most Scotsmen would do
in his situation, for all of the same clan are popularly considered as descended from the same
stock, and as having a right to the ancestral honor of the chief branch. This opinion, though
sometimes ideal, is so strong even at this day of innovation, that it may be observed as a
national difference between my countrymen and the English. If you ask an Englishman of good
birth, whether a person of the same name be connected with him, he answers (if in dubio.) "No--he
is a mere namesake." Ask a similar question of a Scot, (I mean a Scotsman,) he replies--"He
is one of our clan; I daresay there is a relationship, though I do not know how distant." The
Englishman thinks of discountenancing a species of rivalry in society; the Scotsman's answer
is grounded on the ancient idea of strengthening the clan.]

He strode across the hall as he spoke; and the Lady smiled internally to observe how much his
mind dwelt upon the prerogatives of birth, and endeavoured to establish his claims, however
remote, to a share in them, at the very moment when he affected to hold them in contempt. It
will easily be guessed, however, that she permitted no symptom to escape her that could show
she was sensible of the weakness of her husband, a perspicacity which perhaps his proud spirit
could not very easily have brooked.

As he returned from the extremity of the hall, to which he had stalked while in the act of
vindicating the title of the house of Glendonwyne in its most remote branches to the full privileges
of aristocracy, "Where," he said, "is Wolf? I have not seen him since my return, and he was
usually the first to welcome my home-coming."

"Wolf," said the Lady, with a slight degree of embarrassment, for which perhaps, she would
have found it difficult to assign any reason even to herself, "Wolf is chained up for the present.
He hath been surly to my page."

"Wolf chained up--and Wolf surly to your page!" answered Sir Halbert Glendinning; "Wolf never
was surly to any one; and the chain will either break his spirit or render him savage--So ho,
there--set Wolf free directly."

He was obeyed; and the huge dog rushed into the hall, disturbing, by his unwieldy and boisterous
gambols, the whole economy of reels, rocks, and distaffs, with which the maidens of the household
were employed when the arrival of their lord was a signal to them to withdraw, and extracting
from Lilias, who was summoned to put them again in order, the natural observation, "That the
Laird's pet was as troublesome as the lady's page."

"And who is this page, Mary?" said the Knight, his attention again called to the subject by
the observation of the waiting-woman,--"Who is this page, whom every one seems to weigh in
the balance with my old friend and favourite, Wolf?--When did you aspire to the dignity of
keeping a page, or who is the boy?"

"I trust, my Halbert," said the Lady, not without a blush, "you will not think your wife entitled
to less attendance than other ladies of her quality?"

"Nay, Dame Mary," answered the Knight, "it is enough you desire such an attendant.--Yet I have
never loved to nurse such useless menials--a lady's page--it may well suit the proud English
dames to have a slender youth to bear their trains from bower to hall, fan them when they slumber,
and touch the lute for them when they please to listen; but our Scottish matrons were wont
to be above such vanities, and our Scottish youth ought to be bred to the spear and the stirrup."

"Nay, but, my husband," said the Lady, "I did but jest when I called this boy my page; he is
in sooth a little orphan whom we saved from perishing in the lake, and whom I have since kept
in the castle out of charity.--Lilias, bring little Roland hither."

Roland entered accordingly, and, flying to the Lady's side, took hold of the plaits of her
gown, and then turned round, and gazed with an attention not unmingled with fear, upon the
stately form of the Knight.--"Roland," said the Lady, "go kiss the hand of the noble Knight,
and ask him to be thy protector."--But Roland obeyed not, and, keeping his station, continued
to gaze fixedly and timidly on Sir Halbert Glendinning.--"Go to the Knight, boy," said the
Lady; "what dost thou fear, child? Go, kiss Sir Halbert's hand."

"I will kiss no hand save yours, Lady," answered the boy.

"Nay, but do as you are commanded, child," replied the Lady.--"He is dashed by your presence,"
she said, apologizing to her husband; "but is he not a handsome boy?"

"And so is Wolf," said Sir Halbert, as he patted his huge four-footed favourite, "a handsome
dog; but he has this double advantage over your new favourite, that he does what he is commanded,
and hears not when he is praised."

"Nay, now you are displeased with me," replied the Lady; "and yet why should you be so? There
is nothing wrong in relieving the distressed orphan, or in loving that which is in itself lovely
and deserving of affection. But you have seen Mr. Warden at Edinburgh, and he has set you against
the poor boy."

"My dear Mary," answered her husband, "Mr. Warden better knows his place than to presume to
interfere either in your affairs or mine. I neither blame your relieving this boy, nor your
kindness for him. But, I think, considering his birth and prospects, you ought not to treat
him with injudicious fondness, which can only end in rendering him unfit for the humble situation
to which Heaven has designed him."

"Nay, but, my Halbert, do but look at the boy," said the Lady, "and see whether he has not
the air of being intended by Heaven for something nobler than a mere peasant. May he not be
designed, as others have been, to rise out of a humble situation into honour and eminence?"

Thus far had she proceeded, when the consciousness that she was treading upon delicate ground
at once occurred to her, and induced her to take the most natural, but the worst of all courses
in such occasions, whether in conversation or in an actual bog, namely, that of stopping suddenly
short in the illustration which she had commenced. Her brow crimsoned, and that of Sir Halbert
Glendinning was slightly overcast. But it was only for an instant; for he was incapable of
mistaking his lady's meaning, or supposing that she meant intentional disrespect to him.

"Be it as you please, my love," he replied; "I owe you too much to contradict you in aught
which may render your solitary mode of life more endurable. Make of this youth what you will,
and you have my full authority for doing so. But remember he is your charge, not mine--remember
he hath limbs to do man's service, a soul and a tongue to worship God; breed him, therefore,
to be true to his country and to Heaven; and for the rest, dispose of him as you list--it is,
and shall rest, your own matter."

This conversation decided the fate of Roland Graeme, who from thence-forward was little noticed
by the master of the mansion of Avenel, but indulged and favoured by its mistress.

This situation led to many important consequences, and, in truth, tended to bring forth the
character of the youth in all its broad lights and deep shadows. As the Knight himself seemed
tacitly to disclaim alike interest and control over the immediate favourite of his lady, young
Roland was, by circumstances, exempted from the strict discipline to which, as the retainer
of a Scottish man of rank, he would otherwise have been subjected, according to all the rigour
of the age. But the steward, or master of the household--such was the proud title assumed by
the head domestic of each petty baron--deemed it not advisable to interfere with the favourite
of the Lady, and especially since she had brought the estate into the present family. Master
Jasper Wingate was a man experienced, as he often boasted, in the ways of great families, and
knew how to keep the steerage even when the wind and tide chanced to be in contradiction.

This prudent personage winked at much, and avoided giving opportunity for farther offence,
by requesting little of Roland Graeme beyond the degree of attention which he was himself disposed
to pay; rightly conjecturing, that however lowly the place which the youth might hold in the
favour of the Knight of Avenel, still to make an evil report of him would make an enemy of
the Lady, without securing the favour of her husband. With these prudential considerations,
and doubtless not without an eye to his own ease and convenience, he taught the boy as much,
and only as much, as he chose to learn, readily admitting whatever apology it pleased his pupil
to allege in excuse for idleness or negligence. As the other persons in the castle, to whom
such tasks were delegated, readily imitated the prudential conduct of the major-domo, there
was little control used towards Roland Graeme, who, of course, learned no more than what a
very active mind, and a total impatience of absolute idleness led him to acquire upon his own
account, and by dint of his own exertions. The latter were especially earnest, when the Lady
herself condescended to be his tutress, or to examine his progress.

It followed also from his quality as my Lady's favourite, that Roland was viewed with no peculiar
good-will by the followers of the Knight, many of whom, of the same age, and apparently similar
origin, with the fortunate page, were subjected to severe observance of the ancient and rigorous
discipline of a feudal retainer. To these, Roland Graeme was of course an object of envy, and,
in consequence, of dislike and detraction; but the youth possessed qualities which it was impossible
to depreciate.  Pride, and a sense of early ambition, did for him what severity and constant
instruction did for others. In truth, the youthful Roland displayed that early flexibility
both of body and mind, which renders exercise, either mental or bodily, rather matter of sport
than of study; and it seemed as if he acquired accidentally, and by starts, those accomplishments,
which earnest and constant instruction, enforced by frequent reproof and occasional chastisement,
had taught to others. Such military exercises, such lessons of the period, as he found it agreeable
or convenient to apply to, he learned so perfectly, as to confound those who were ignorant
how often the want of constant application is compensated by vivacity of talent and ardent
enthusiasm. The lads, therefore, who were more regularly trained to arms, to horsemanship,
and to other necessary exercises of the period, while they envied Roland Graeme the indulgence
or negligence with which he seemed to be treated, had little reason to boast of their own superior
acquirements; a few hours, with the powerful exertion of a most energetic will, seemed to do
for him more than the regular instruction of weeks could accomplish for others.

Under these advantages, if, indeed, they were to be termed such, the character of young Roland
began to develope itself. It was bold, peremptory, decisive, and overbearing; generous, if
neither withstood nor contradicted; vehement and passionate, if censured or opposed. He seemed
to consider himself as attached to no one, and responsible to no one, except his mistress,
and even over her mind he had gradually acquired that species of ascendancy which indulgence
is so apt to occasion. And although the immediate followers and dependents of Sir Halbert Glendinning
saw his ascendancy with jealousy, and often took occasion to mortify his vanity, there wanted
not those who were willing to acquire the favour of the Lady of Avenel by humouring and taking
part with the youth whom she protected; for although a favourite, as the poet assures us, has
no friend, he seldom fails to have both followers and flatterers.

The partisans of Roland Graeme were chiefly to be found amongst the inhabitants of the little
hamlet on the shore of the lake. These villagers, who were sometimes tempted to compare their
own situation with that of the immediate and constant followers of the Knight, who attended
him on his frequent journeys to Edinburgh and elsewhere, delighted in considering and representing
themselves as more properly the subjects of the Lady of Avenel than of her husband. It is true,
her wisdom and affection on all occasions discountenanced the distinction which was here implied;
but the villagers persisted in thinking it must be agreeable to her to enjoy their peculiar
and undivided homage, or at least in acting as if they thought so; and one chief mode by which
they evinced their sentiments, was by the respect they paid to young Roland Graeme, the favourite
attendant of the descendant of their ancient lords. This was a mode of flattery too pleasing
to encounter rebuke or censure; and the opportunity which it afforded the youth to form, as
it were, a party of his own within the limits of the ancient barony of Avenel, added not a
little to the audacity and decisive tone of a character, which was by nature bold, impetuous,
and incontrollable.

Of the two members of the household who had manifested an early jealousy of Roland Graeme,
the prejudices of Wolf were easily overcome; and in process of time the noble dog slept with
Bran, Luath, and the celebrated hounds of ancient days. But Mr. Warden, the chaplain, lived,
and retained his dislike to the youth. That good man, single-minded and benevolent as he really
was, entertained rather more than a reasonable idea of the respect due to him as a minister,
and exacted from the inhabitants of the castle more deference than the haughty young page,
proud of his mistress's favour, and petulant from youth and situation, was at all times willing
to pay. His bold and free demeanour, his attachment to rich dress and decoration, his inaptitude
to receive instruction, and his hardening himself against rebuke, were circumstances which
induced the good old man, with more haste than charity, to set the forward page down as a vessel
of wrath, and to presage that the youth nursed that pride and haughtiness of spirit which goes
before ruin and destruction. On the other hand, Roland evinced at times a marked dislike, and
even something like contempt, of the chaplain. Most of the attendants and followers of Sir
Halbert Glendinning entertained the same charitable thoughts as the reverend Mr. Warden; but
while Roland was favoured by their lady, and endured by their lord, they saw no policy in making
their opinions public.

Roland Graeme was sufficiently sensible of the unpleasant situation in which he stood; but
in the haughtiness of his heart he retorted upon the other domestics the distant, cold, and
sarcastic manner in which they treated him, assumed an air of superiority which compelled the
most obstinate to obedience, and had the satisfaction at least to be dreaded, if he was heartily
hated.

The chaplain's marked dislike had the effect of recommending him to the attention of Sir Halbert's
brother, Edward, who now, under the conventual appellation of Father Ambrose, continued to
be one of the few monks who, with the Abbot Eustatius, had, notwithstanding the nearly total
downfall of their faith under the regency of Murray, been still permitted to linger in the
cloisters at Kennaquhair. Respect to Sir Halbert had prevented their being altogether driven
out of the Abbey, though their order was now in a great measure suppressed, and they were interdicted
the public exercise of their ritual, and only allowed for their support a small pension out
of their once splendid revenues. Father Ambrose, thus situated, was an occasional, though very
rare visitant, at the Castle of Avenel, and was at such times observed to pay particular attention
to Roland Graeme, who seemed to return it with more depth of feeling than consisted with his
usual habits.

Thus situated, years glided on, during which the Knight of Avenel continued to act a frequent
and important part in the convulsions of his distracted country; while young Graeme anticipated,
both in wishes and personal accomplishments, the age which should enable him to emerge from
the obscurity of his present situation.

Chapter the Fourth.

  Amid their cups that freely flow'd,
    Their revelry and mirth,
  A youthful lord tax'd Valentine
    With base and doubtful birth.
                 VALENTINE AND ORSON.

When Roland Graeme was a youth about seventeen years of age, he chanced one summer morning
to descend to the mew in which Sir Halbert Glendinning kept his hawks, in order to superintend
the training of an eyas, or young hawk, which he himself, at the imminent risk of neck and
limbs, had taken from the celebrated eyry in the neighborhood, called Gledscraig. As he was
by no means satisfied with the attention which had been bestowed on his favourite bird, he
was not slack in testifying his displeasure to the falconer's lad, whose duty it was to have
attended upon it.

"What, ho! sir knave," exclaimed Roland, "is it thus you feed the eyas with unwashed meat,
as if you were gorging the foul brancher of a worthless hoodie-crow? by the mass, and thou
hast neglected its castings also for these two days! Think'st thou I ventured my neck to bring
the bird down from the crag, that thou shouldst spoil him by thy neglect?" And to add force
to his remonstrances, he conferred a cuff or two on the negligent attendant of the hawks, who,
shouting rather louder than was necessary under all the circumstances, brought the master falconer
to his assistance.

Adam Woodcock, the falconer of Avenel, was an Englishman by birth, but so long in the service
of Glendinning, that he had lost much of his notional attachment in that which he had formed
to his master. He was a favourite in his department, jealous and conceited of his skill, as
masters of the game usually are; for the rest of his character he was a jester and a parcel
poet, (qualities which by no means abated his natural conceit,) a jolly fellow, who, though
a sound Protestant, loved a flagon of ale better than a long sermon, a stout man of his hands
when need required, true to his master, and a little presuming on his interest with him.

Adam Woodcock, such as we have described him, by no means relished the freedom used by young
Graeme, in chastising his assistant. "Hey, hey, my Lady's page," said he, stepping between
his own boy and Roland, "fair and softly, an it like your gilt jacket--hands off is fair play--if
my boy has done amiss, I can beat him myself, and then you may keep your hands soft."

"I will beat him and thee too," answered Roland, without hesitation, "an you look not better
after your business. See how the bird is cast away between you. I found the careless lurdane
feeding him with unwashed flesh, and she an eyas." [Footnote: There is a difference amongst
authorities how long the nestling hawk should be fed with flesh which has previously been washed.]

"Go to," said the falconer, "thou art but an eyas thyself, child Roland.--What knowest thou
of feeding? I say that the eyas should have her meat unwashed, until she becomes a brancher--'twere
the ready way to give her the frounce, to wash her meat sooner, and so knows every one who
knows a gled from a falcon."

"It is thine own laziness, thou false English blood, that dost nothing but drink and sleep,"
retorted the page, "and leaves that lither lad to do the work, which he minds as little as thou."

"And am I so idle then," said the falconer, "that have three cast of hawks to look after, at
perch and mew, and to fly them in the field to boot?--and is my Lady's page so busy a man that
he must take me up short?--and am I of false English blood?--I marvel what blood thou art--neither
Englander nor Scot--fish nor flesh--a bastard from the Debateable Land, without either kith,
kin, or ally!--Marry, out upon thee, foul kite, that would fain be a tercel gentle!"

The reply to this sarcasm was a box on the ear, so well applied, that it overthrew the falconer
into the cistern in which water was kept for the benefit of the hawks. Up started Adam Woodcock,
his wrath no way appeased by the cold immersion, and seizing on a truncheon which stood by,
would have soon requited the injury he had received, had not Roland laid his hand on his poniard,
and sworn by all that was sacred, that if he offered a stroke towards him, he would sheath
the blade in his bowels. The noise was now so great, that more than one of the household came
in, and amongst others the major-domo, a grave personage, already mentioned, whose gold chain
and white wand intimated his authority. At the appearance of this dignitary, the strife was
for the present appeased. He embraced, however, so favourable an opportunity, to read Roland
Graeme a shrewd lecture on the impropriety of his deportment to his fellow-menials, and to
assure him, that, should he communicate this fray to his master, (who, though now on one of
his frequent expeditions, was speedily expected to return,) which but for respect to his Lady
he would most certainly do, the residence of the culprit in the Castle of Avenel would be but
of brief duration. "But, however," added the prudent master of the household, "I will report
the matter first to my Lady."

"Very just, very right, Master Wingate," exclaimed several voices together; "my Lady will consider
if daggers, are to be drawn on us for every idle word, and whether we are to live in a well-ordered
household, where there is the fear of God, or amidst drawn dirks and sharp knives."

The object of this general resentment darted an angry glance around him, and suppressing with
difficulty the desire which urged him to reply in furious or in contemptuous language, returned
his dagger into his scabbard, looked disdainfully around upon the assembled menials, turned
short upon his heel, and pushing aside those who stood betwixt him and the door, left the apartment.

"This will be no tree for my nest," said the falconer, "if this cock-sparrow is to crow over
us as he seems to do."

"He struck me with his switch yesterday," said one of the grooms, "because the tail of his
worship's gelding was not trimmed altogether so as suited his humour."

"And I promise you," said the laundress, "my young master will stick nothing to call an honest
woman slut and quean, if there be but a speck of soot upon his band-collar."

"If Master Wingate do not his errand to my Lady," was the general result, "there will be no
tarrying in the same house with Roland Graeme."

The master of the household heard them all for some time, and then, motioning for universal
silence, he addressed them with all the dignity of Malvolio himself.--"My masters,--not forgetting
you, my mistresses,--do not think the worse of me that I proceed with as much care as haste
in this matter. Our master is a gallant knight, and will have his sway at home and abroad,
in wood and field, in hall and bower, as the saying is. Our Lady, my benison upon her, is also
a noble person of long descent, and rightful heir of this place and barony, and she also loves
her will; as for that matter, show me the woman who doth not. Now, she hath favoured, doth
favour, and will favour, this jack-an-ape,--for what good part about him I know not, save that
as one noble lady will love a messan dog, and another a screaming popinjay, and a third a Barbary
ape, so doth it please our noble dame to set her affections upon this stray elf of a page,
for nought that I can think of, save that she--was the cause of his being saved (the more's
the pity) from drowning." And here Master Wingate made a pause.

"I would have been his caution for a gray groat against salt water or fresh," said Roland's
adversary, the falconer; "marry, if he crack not a rope for stabbing or for snatching, I will
be content never to hood hawk again."

"Peace, Adam Woodcock," said Wingate, waving his hand; "I prithee, peace man--Now, my Lady
liking this springald, as aforesaid, differs therein from my Lord, who loves never a bone in
his skin. Now, is it for me to stir up strife betwixt them, and put as'twere my finger betwixt
the bark and the tree, on account of a pragmatical youngster, whom, nevertheless, I would willingly
see whipped forth of the barony? Have patience, and this boil will break without our meddling.
I have been in service since I wore a beard on my chin, till now that that beard is turned
gray, and I have seldom known any one better themselves, even by taking the lady's part against
the lord's; but never one who did not dirk himself, if he took the lord's against the lady's."

"And so," said Lilias, "we are to be crowed over, every one of us, men and women, cock and
hen, by this little upstart?--I will try titles with him first, I promise you.--I fancy, Master
Wingate, for as wise as you look, you will be pleased to tell what you have seen to-day, if
my lady commands you?"

"To speak the truth when my lady commands me," answered the prudential major-domo, "is in some
measure my duty, Mistress Lilias; always providing for and excepting those cases in which it
cannot be spoken without breeding mischief and inconvenience to myself or my fellow-servants;
for the tongue of a tale-bearer breaketh bones as well as Jeddart-staff." [Footnote: A species
of battle-axe, so called as being in especial use in that ancient burgh, whose armorial bearing
still represent an armed horseman brandishing such a weapon.]

"But this imp of Satan is none of your friends or fellow-servants," said Lilias; "and I trust
you mean not to stand up for him against the whole family besides?"

"Credit me, Mrs. Lilias," replied the senior, "should I see the time fitting, I would, with
right good-will give him a lick with the rough side of my tongue."

"Enough said, Master Wingate," answered Lilias; "then trust me his song shall soon be laid.
If my mistress does not ask me what is the matter below stairs before she be ten minutes of
time older, she is no born woman, and my name is not Lilias Bradbourne."

In pursuance of her plan, Mistress Lilias failed not to present herself before her mistress
with all the exterior of one who is possessed of an important secret,--that is, she had the
corners of her mouth turned down, her eyes raised up, her lips pressed as fast together as
if they had been sewed up, to prevent her babbling, and an air of prim mystical importance
diffused over her whole person and demeanour, which seemed to intimate, "I know something which
I am resolved not to tell you!"

Lilias had rightly read her mistress's temper, who, wise and good as she was, was yet a daughter
of grandame Eve, and could not witness this mysterious bearing on the part of her waiting-woman
without longing to ascertain the secret cause. For a space, Mrs. Lilias was obdurate to all
inquiries, sighed, turned her eyes up higher yet to heaven, hoped for the best, but had nothing
particular to communicate. All this, as was most natural and proper, only stimulated the Lady's
curiosity; neither was her importunity to be parried with,--"Thank God, I am no makebate--no
tale-bearer,--thank God, I never envied any one's favour, or was anxious to propale their misdemeanour-only,
thank God, there has been no bloodshed and murder in the house--that is all."

"Bloodshed and murder!" exclaimed the Lady, "what does the quean mean?--if you speak not plain
out, you shall have something you will scarce be thankful for."

"Nay, my Lady," answered Lilias, eager to disburden her mind, or, in, Chaucer's phrase, to
"unbuckle her mail," "if you bid me speak out the truth, you must not be moved with what might
displease you--Roland Graeme has dirked Adam Woodstock--that is all."

"Good Heaven!" said the Lady, turning pale as ashes, "is the man slain?"

"No, madam," replied Lilias, "but slain he would have been, if there had not been ready help;
but may be, it is your Ladyship's pleasure that this young esquire shall poniard the servants,
as well as switch and baton them."

"Go to, minion," said the Lady, "you are saucy-tell the master of the household to attend me
instantly."

Lilias hastened to seek out Mr. Wingate, and hurry him to his lady's presence, speaking as
a word in season to him on the way, "I have set the stone a-trowling, look that you do not
let it stand still."

The steward, too prudential a person to commit himself otherwise, answered by a sly look and
a nod of intelligence, and presently after stood in the presence of the Lady of Avenel, with
a look of great respect for his lady, partly real, partly affected, and an air of great sagacity,
which inferred no ordinary conceit of himself.

"How is this, Wingate," said the Lady, "and what rule do you keep in the castle, that the domestics
of Sir Halbert Glendinning draw the dagger on each other, as in a cavern of thieves and murderers?--is
the wounded man much hurt? and what--what hath become of the unhappy boy?"

"There is no one wounded as yet, madam," replied he of the golden chain; "it passes my poor
skill to say how many may be wounded before Pasche, [Footnote: Easter.] if some rule be not
taken with this youth--not but the youth is a fair youth," he added, correcting himself, "and
able at his exercise; but somewhat too ready with the ends of his fingers, the butt of his
riding-switch, and the point of his dagger."

"And whose fault is that," said the Lady, "but yours, who should have taught him better discipline,
than to brawl or to draw his dagger."

"If it please your Ladyship so to impose the blame on me," answered the steward, "it is my
part, doubtless, to bear it--only I submit to your consideration, that unless I nailed his
weapon to the scabbard, I could no more keep it still, than I could fix quicksilver, which
defied even the skill of Raymond Lullius."

"Tell me not of Raymond Lullius," said the Lady, losing patience, "but send me the chaplain
hither. You grow all of you too wise for me, during your lord's long and repeated absences.
I would to God his affairs would permit him to remain at home and rule his own household, for
it passes my wit and skill!"

"God forbid, my Lady!" said the old domestic, "that you should sincerely think what you are
now pleased to say: your old servants might well hope, that after so many years' duty, you
would do their service more justice than to distrust their gray hairs, because they cannot
rule the peevish humour of a green head, which the owner carries, it may be, a brace of inches
higher than becomes him."

"Leave me," said the Lady; "Sir Halbert's return must now be expected daily, and he will look
into these matters himself--leave me, I say, Wingate, without saying more of it. I know you
are honest, and I believe the boy is petulant; and yet I think it is my favour which hath set
all of you against him."

The steward bowed and retired, after having been silenced in a second attempt to explain the
motives on which he acted.

The chaplain arrived; but neither from him did the Lady receive much comfort. On the contrary,
she found him disposed, in plain terms, to lay to the door of her indulgence all the disturbances
which the fiery temper of Roland Graeme had already occasioned, or might hereafter occasion,
in the family. "I would," he said, "honoured Lady, that you had deigned to be ruled by me in
the outset of this matter, sith it is easy to stem evil in the fountain, but hard to struggle
against it in the stream. You, honoured madam, (a word which I do not use according to the
vain forms of this world, but because I have ever loved and honoured you as an honourable and
elect lady,)--you, I say, madam, have been pleased, contrary to my poor but earnest counsel,
to raise this boy from his station, into one approaching to your own."

"What mean you, reverend sir?" said the Lady; "I have made this youth a page--is there aught
in my doing so that does not become my character and quality?"

"I dispute not, madam," said the pertinacious preacher, "your benevolent purpose in taking
charge of this youth, or your title to give him this idle character of page, if such was your
pleasure; though what the education of a boy in the train of a female can tend to, save to
ingraft foppery and effeminacy on conceit and arrogance, it passes my knowledge to discover.
But I blame you more directly for having taken little care to guard him against the perils
of his condition, or to tame and humble a spirit naturally haughty, overbearing, and impatient.
You have brought into your bower a lion's cub; delighted with the beauty of his fur, and the
grace of his gambols, you have bound him with no fetters befitting the fierceness of his disposition.
You have let him grow up as unawed as if he had been still a tenant of the forest, and now
you are surprised, and call out for assistance, when he begins to ramp, rend, and tear, according
to his proper nature."

"Mr. Warden," said the Lady, considerably offended, "you are my husband's ancient friend, and
I believe your love sincere to him and to his household. Yet let me say, that when I asked
you for counsel, I expected not this asperity of rebuke. If I have done wrong in loving this
poor orphan lad more than others of his class, I scarce think the error merited such severe
censure; and if stricter discipline were required to keep his fiery temper in order, it ought,
I think, to be considered, that I am a woman, and that if I have erred in this matter, it becomes
a friend's part rather to aid than to rebuke me. I would these evils were taken order with
before my lord's return. He loves not domestic discord or domestic brawls; and I would not
willingly that he thought such could arise from one whom I favoured--What do you counsel me to do?"

"Dismiss this youth from your service, madam," replied the preacher.

"You cannot bid me do so," said the Lady; "you cannot, as a Christian and a man of humanity,
bid me turn away an unprotected creature against whom my favour, my injudicious favour if you
will, has reared up so many enemies."

"It is not necessary you should altogether abandon him, though you dismiss him to another service,
or to a calling better suiting his station and character," said the preacher; "elsewhere he
maybe an useful and profitable member of the commonweal--here he is but a makebate, and a stumbling-block
of offence. The youth has snatches of sense and of intelligence, though he lacks industry.
I will myself give him letters commendatory to Olearius Schinderhausen, a learned professor
at the famous university of Leyden, where they lack an under-janitor--where, besides gratis
instruction, if God give him the grace to seek it, he will enjoy five merks by the year, and
the professor's cast-off suit, which he disparts with biennially."

"This will never do, good Mr. Warden," said the Lady, scarce able to suppress a smile; "we
will think more at large upon this matter. In the meanwhile, I trust to your remonstrances
with this wild boy and with the family, for restraining these violent and unseemly jealousies
and bursts of passion; and I entreat you to press on him and them their duty in this respect
towards God, and towards their master."

"You shall be obeyed, madam," said Warden. "On the next Thursday I exhort the family, and will,
with God's blessing, so wrestle with the demon of wrath and violence, which hath entered into
my little flock, that I trust to hound the wolf out of the fold, as if he were chased away
with bandogs."

This was the part of the conference from which Mr. Warden derived the greatest pleasure. The
pulpit was at that time the same powerful engine for affecting popular feeling which the press
has since become, and he had been no unsuccessful preacher, as we have already seen. It followed
as a natural consequence, that he rather over-estimated the powers of his own oratory, and,
like some of his brethren about the period, was glad of an opportunity to handle any matters
of importance, whether public or private, the discussion of which could be dragged into his
discourse. In that rude age the delicacy was unknown which prescribed time and place to personal
exhortations; and as the court-preacher often addressed the King individually, and dictated
to him the conduct he ought to observe in matters of state, so the nobleman himself, or any
of his retainers, were, in the chapel of the feudal castle, often incensed or appalled, as
the case might be, by the discussion of their private faults in the evening exercise, and by
spiritual censures directed against them, specifically, personally, and by name. The sermon,
by means of which Henry Warden purposed to restore concord and good order to the Castle of
Avenel, bore for text the well-known words, "He who striketh with the sword shall perish by
the sword," and was a singular mixture of good sense and powerful oratory with pedantry and
bad taste. He enlarged a good deal on the word striketh, which he assured his hearers comprehended
blows given with the point as well as with the edge, and more generally, shooting with hand-gun,
cross-bow, or long-bow, thrusting with a lance, or doing any thing whatever by which death
might be occasioned to the adversary. In the same manner, he proved satisfactorily, that the
word sword comprehended all descriptions, whether backsword or basket-hilt, cut-and-thrust
or rapier, falchion, or scimitar. "But if," he continued, with still greater animation, "the
text includeth in its anathema those who strike with any of those weapons which man hath devised
for the exercise of his open hostility, still more doth it comprehend such as from their form
and size are devised rather for the gratification of privy malice by treachery, than for the
destruction of an enemy prepared and standing upon his defence. Such," he proceeded, looking
sternly at the place where the page was seated on a cushion at the feet of his mistress, and
wearing in his crimson belt a gay dagger with a gilded hilt,--"such, more especially, I hold
to be those implements of death, which, in our modern and fantastic times, are worn not only
by thieves and cut-throats, to whom they most properly belong, but even by those who attend
upon women, and wait in the chambers of honourable ladies. Yes, my friends,--every species
of this unhappy weapon, framed for all evil and for no good, is comprehended under this deadly
denunciation, whether it be a stillet, which we have borrowed from the treacherous Italian,
or a dirk, which is borne by the savage Highlandman, or a whinger, which is carried by our
own Border thieves and cut-throats, or a dudgeon-dagger, all are alike engines invented by
the devil himself, for ready implements of deadly wrath, sudden to execute, and difficult to
be parried. Even the common sword-and-buckler brawler despises the use of such a treacherous
and malignant instrument, which is therefore fit to be used, not by men or soldiers, but by
those who, trained under female discipline, become themselves effeminate hermaphrodites, having
female spite and female cowardice added to the infirmities and evil passions of their masculine
nature."

The effect which this oration produced upon the assembled congregation of Avenel cannot very
easily be described. The lady seemed at once embarrassed and offended; the menials could hardly
contain, under an affectation of deep attention, the joy with which they heard the chaplain
launch his thunders at the head of the unpopular favourite, and the weapon which they considered
as a badge of affectation and finery. Mrs. Lilias crested and drew up her head with all the
deep-felt pride of gratified resentment; while the steward, observing a strict neutrality of
aspect, fixed his eyes upon an old scutcheon on the opposite side of the wall, which he seemed
to examine with the utmost accuracy, more willing, perhaps, to incur the censure of being inattentive
to the sermon, than that of seeming to listen with marked approbation to what appeared so distasteful
to his mistress.

The unfortunate subject of the harangue, whom nature had endowed with passions which had hitherto
found no effectual restraint, could not disguise the resentment which he felt at being thus
directly held up to the scorn, as well as the censure, of the assembled inhabitants of the
little world in which he lived. His brow grew red, his lip grew pale, he set his teeth, he
clenched his hand, and then with mechanical readiness grasped the weapon of which the clergyman
had given so hideous a character; and at length, as the preacher heightened the colouring of
his invective, he felt his rage become so ungovernable, that, fearful of being hurried into
some deed of desperate violence, he rose up, traversed the chapel with hasty steps, and left
the congregation.

The preacher was surprised into a sudden pause, while the fiery youth shot across him like
a flash of lightning, regarding him as he passed, as if he had wished to dart from his eyes
the same power of blighting and of consuming. But no sooner had he crossed the chapel, and
shut with violence behind him the door of the vaulted entrance by which it communicated with
the castle, than the impropriety of his conduct supplied Warden with one of those happier subjects
for eloquence, of which he knew how to take advantage for making a suitable impression on his
hearers. He paused for an instant, and then pronounced, in a slow and solemn voice, the deep
anathema: "He hath gone out from us because he was not of us--the sick man hath been offended
at the wholesome bitter of the medicine--the wounded patient hath flinched from the friendly
knife of the surgeon--the sheep hath fled from the sheepfold and delivered himself to the wolf,
because he could not assume the quiet and humble conduct demanded of us by the great Shepherd.
Ah! my brethren, beware of wrath--beware of pride--beware of the deadly and destroying sin
which so often shows itself to our frail eyes in the garments of light! What is our earthly
honour? Pride, and pride only--What our earthly gifts and graces? Pride and vanity. Voyagers
speak of Indian men who deck themselves with shells, and anoint themselves with pigments, and
boast of their attire as we do of our miserable carnal advantages--Pride could draw down the
morning-star from Heaven even to the verge of the pit--Pride and self-opinion kindled the flaming
sword which waves us off from Paradise--Pride made Adam mortal, and a weary wanderer on the
face of the earth, which he had else been at this day the immortal lord of--Pride brought amongst
us sin, and doubles every sin it has brought. It is the outpost which the devil and the flesh
most stubbornly maintain against the assaults of grace; and until it be subdued, and its barriers
levelled with the very earth, there is more hope of a fool than of the sinner. Rend, then,
from your bosoms this accursed shoot of the fatal apple; tear it up by the roots, though it
be twisted with the chords of your life. Profit by the example of the miserable sinner that
has passed from us, and embrace the means of grace while it is called to-day 'ere your conscience
is seared as with a fire-brand, and your ears deafened like those of the adder, and your heart
hardened like the nether mill-stone. Up, then, and be doing--wrestle and overcome; resist,
and the enemy shall flee from you--Watch and pray, lest ye fall into temptation, and let the
stumbling of others be your warning and your example. Above all, rely not on yourselves, for
such self-confidence is even the worst symptom of the disorder itself. The Pharisee, perhaps,
deemed himself humble while he stooped in the Temple, and thanked God that he was not as other
men, and even as the publican. But while his knees touched the marble pavement, his head was
as high as the topmost pinnacle of the Temple. Do not, therefore, deceive yourselves, and offer
false coin, where the purest you can present is but as dross--think not that such--will pass
the assay of Omnipotent Wisdom. Yet shrink not from the task, because, as is my bounden duty,
I do not disguise from you its difficulties. Self-searching can do much--Meditation can do
much--Grace can do all."

And he concluded with a touching and animating exhortation to his hearers to seek divine grace,
which is perfected in human wakness.

The audience did not listen to this address without being considerably affected; though it
might be doubted whether the feelings of triumph, excited by the disgraceful retreat of the
favourite page, did not greatly qualify in the minds of many the exhortations of the preacher
to charity and to humility. And, in fact, the expression of their countenances much resembled
the satisfied triumphant air of a set of children, who, having just seen a companion punished
for a fault in which they had no share, con their task with double glee, both because they
themselves are out of the scrape, and because the culprit is in it.

With very different feelings did the Lady of Avenel seek her own apartment. She felt angry
at Warden having made a domestic matter, in which she took a personal interest, the subject
of such public discussion. But this she knew the good man claimed as a branch of his Christian
liberty as a preacher, and also that it was vindicated by the universal custom of his brethren.
But the self-willed conduct of her protegé afforded her yet deeper concern. That he had broken
through in so remarkable a degree, not only the respect due to her presence, but that which
was paid to religious admonition in those days with such peculiar reverence, argued a spirit
as untameable as his enemies had represented him to possess. And yet so far as he had been
under her own eye, she had seen no more of that fiery spirit than appeared to her to become
his years and his vivacity. This opinion might be founded in some degree on partiality; in
some degree, too, it might be owing to the kindness and indulgence which she had always extended
to him; but still she thought it impossible that she could be totally mistaken in the estimate
she had formed of his character. The extreme of violence is scarce consistent with a course
of continued hypocrisy, (although Lilias charitably hinted, that in some instances they were
happily united,) and there fore she could not exactly trust the report of others against her
own experience and observation. The thoughts of this orphan boy clung to her heartstrings with
a fondness for which she herself was unable to account. He seemed to have been sent to her
by Heaven, to fill up those intervals of languor and vacuity which deprived her of much enjoyment.
Perhaps he was not less dear to her, because she well saw that he was a favourite with no one
else, and because she felt, that to give him up was to afford the judgment of her husband and
others a triumph over her own; a circumstance not quite indifferent to the best of spouses
of either sex.

In short, the Lady of Avenel formed the internal resolution, that she would not desert her
page while her page could be rationally protected; and, with a view of ascertaining how far
this might be done, she caused him to be summoned to her presence.

Chapter the Fifth.

  --In the wild storm,
  The seaman hews his mast down, and the merchant
  Heaves to the billows wares he once deem'd precious;
  So prince and peer, 'mid popular contentions,
  Cast off their favourites.
                                  OLD PLAY.

It was some time ere Roland Graeme appeared. The messenger (his old friend Lilias) had at first
attempted to open the door of his little apartment with the charitable purpose, doubtless,
of enjoying the confusion, and marking the demeanour of the culprit. But an oblong bit of iron,
ycleped a bolt, was passed across the door on the inside, and prevented her benign intentions.
Lilias knocked and called at intervals. "Roland--Roland Graeme--Master Roland Graeme" (an emphasis
on the word Master,) "will you be pleased to undo the door?--What ails you?--are you at your
prayers in private, to complete the devotion which you left unfinished in public?--Surely we
must have a screened seat for you in the chapel, that your gentility may be free from the eyes
of common folks!" Still no whisper was heard in reply. "Well, master Roland," said the waiting-maid,
"I must tell my mistress, that if she would have an answer, she must either come herself, or
send those on errand to you who can beat the door down."

"What says your Lady?" answered the page from within.

"Marry, open the door, and you shall hear," answered the waiting-maid. "I trow it becomes my
Lady's message to be listened to face to face; and I will not for your idle pleasure, whistle
it through a key-hole."

"Your mistress's name," said the page, opening the door, "is too fair a cover for your impertinence--What
says my Lady?"

"That you will be pleased to come to her directly, in the withdrawing-room," answered Lilias.
"I presume she has some directions for you concerning the forms to be observed in leaving chapel
in future."

"Say to my Lady, that I will directly wait on her," answered the page; and returning into his
apartment, he once more locked the door in the face of the waiting-maid.

"Rare courtesy!" muttered Lilias; and, returning to her mistress, acquainted her that Roland
Graeme would wait on her when it suited his convenience.

"What, is that his addition, or your own phrase, Lilias?" said the Lady, coolly.

"Nay, madam," replied the attendant, not directly answering the question, "he looked as if
he could have said much more impertinent things than that, if I had been willing to hear them.--But
here he comes to answer for himself."

Roland Graeme entered the apartment with a loftier mien, and somewhat a higher colour than
his wont; there was embarrassment in his manner, but it was neither that of fear nor of penitence.

"Young man," said the Lady, "what trow you I am to think of your conduct this day?"

"If it has offended you, madam, I am deeply grieved," replied the youth.

"To have offended me alone," replied the Lady, "were but little--You have been guilty of conduct
which will highly offend your master--of violence to your fellow-servants, and of disrespect
to God himself, in the person of his ambassador."

"Permit me again to reply," said the page, "that if I have offended my only mistress, friend,
and benefactress, it includes the sum of my guilt, and deserves the sum of my penitence--Sir
Halbert Glendinning calls me not servant, nor do I call him master--he is not entitled to blame
me for chastising an insolent groom--nor do I fear the wrath of Heaven for treating with scorn
the unauthorized interference of a meddling preacher."

The Lady of Avenel had before this seen symptoms in her favourite of boyish petulance, and
of impatience of censure or reproof. But his present demeanour was of a graver and more determined
character, and she was for a moment at a loss how she should treat the youth, who seemed to
have at once assumed the character not only of a man, but of a bold and determined one. She
paused an instant, arid then assuming the dignity which was natural to her, she said, "Is it
to me, Roland, that you hold this language? Is it for the purpose of making me repent the favour
I have shown you, that you declare yourself independent both of an earthly and a Heavenly master?
Have you forgotten what you were, and to what the loss of my protection would speedily again
reduce you?"

"Lady," said the page, "I have forgot nothing, I remember but too much. I know, that but for
you, I should have perished in yon blue waves," pointing, as he spoke, to the lake, which was
seen through the window, agitated by the western wind. "Your goodness has gone farther, madam--you
have protected me against the malice of others, and against my own folly. You are free, if
you are willing, to abandon the orphan you have reared. You have left nothing undone by him,
and he complains of nothing. And yet, Lady, do not think I have been ungrateful--I have endured
something on my part, which I would have borne for the sake of no one but my benefactress."

"For my sake!" said the Lady; "and what is it that I can have subjected you to endure, which
can be remembered with other feelings than those of thanks and gratitude?"

"You are too just, madam, to require me to be thankful for the cold neglect with which your
husband has uniformly treated me--neglect not unmingled with fixed aversion. You are too just,
madam, to require me to be grateful for the constant and unceasing marks of scorn and malevolence
with which I have been treated by others, or for such a homily as that with which your reverend
chaplain has, at my expense, this very day regaled the assembled household."

"Heard mortal ears the like of this!" said the waiting-maid, with her hands expanded and her
eyes turned up to heaven; "he speaks as if he were son of an earl, or of a belted knight the
least penny!"

The page glanced on her a look of supreme contempt, but vouchsafed no other answer. His mistress,
who began to feel herself seriously offended, and yet sorry for the youth's folly, took up
the same tone.

"Indeed, Roland, you forget yourself so strangely," said she, "that you will tempt me to take
serious measures to lower you in your own opinion by reducing you to your proper station in
society."

"And that," added Lilias, "would be best done by turning him out the same beggar's brat that
your ladyship took him in."

"Lilias speaks too rudely," continued the Lady, "but she has spoken the truth, young man; nor
do I think I ought to spare that pride which hath so completely turned your head. You have
been tricked up with fine garments, and treated like the son of a gentleman, until you have
forgot the fountain of your churlish blood."

"Craving your pardon, most honourable madam, Lilias hath not spoken truth, nor does your ladyship
know aught of my descent, which should entitle you to treat it with such decided scorn. I am
no beggar's brat--my grandmother begged from no one, here nor elsewhere--she would have perished
sooner on the bare moor. We were harried out and driven from our home--a chance which has happed
elsewhere, and to others. Avenel Castle, with its lake and its towers, was not at all times
able to protect its inhabitants from want and desolation."

"Hear but his assurance!" said Lilias, "he upbraids my Lady with the distresses of her family!"

"It had indeed been a theme more gratefully spared," said the Lady, affected nevertheless with
the allusion.

"It was necessary, madam, for my vindication," said the page, "or I had not even hinted at
a word that might give you pain. But believe, honoured Lady, I am of no churl's blood. My proper
descent I know not; but my only relation has said, and my heart has echoed it back and attested
the truth, that I am sprung of gentle blood, and deserve gentle usage."

"And upon an assurance so vague as this," said the Lady, "do you propose to expect all the
regard, all the privileges, befitting high rank and distinguished birth, and become a contender
for concessions which are only due to the noble? Go to, sir, know yourself, or the master of
the household shall make you know you are liable to the scourge as a malapert boy. You have
tasted too little the discipline fit for your age and station."

"The master of the household shall taste of my dagger, ere I taste of his discipline," said
the page, giving way to his restrained passion. "Lady, I have been too long the vassal of a
pantoufle, and the slave of a silver whistle. You must henceforth find some other to answer
your call; and let him be of birth and spirit mean enough to brook the scorn of your menials,
and to call a church vassal his master."

"I have deserved this insult," said the Lady, colouring deeply, "for so long enduring and fostering
your petulance. Begone, sir. Leave this castle to-night--I will send you the means of subsistence
till you find some honest mode of support, though I fear your imaginary grandeur will be above
all others, save those of rapine and violence. Begone, sir, and see my face no more."

The page threw himself at her feet in an agony of sorrow. "My dear and honoured mistress,"
he said, but was unable to bring out another syllable.

"Arise, sir," said the Lady, "and let go my mantle--hypocrisy is a poor cloak for ingratitude."

"I am incapable of either, madam," said the page, springing up with the hasty start of passion
which belonged to his rapid and impetuous temper. "Think not I meant to implore permission
to reside here; it has been long my determination to leave Avenel, and I will never forgive
myself for having permitted you to say the word begone, ere I said, 'I leave you.' I did but
kneel to ask your forgiveness for an ill-considered word used in the height of displeasure,
but which ill became my mouth, as addressed to you. Other grace I asked not--you have done
much for me--but I repeat, that you better know what you yourself have done, than what I have
suffered."

"Roland," said the Lady, somewhat appeased, and relenting towards her favourite, "you had me
to appeal to when you were aggrieved. You were neither called upon to suffer wrong, nor entitled
to resent it, when you were under my protection."

"And what," said the youth, "if I sustained wrong from those you loved and favoured, was I
to disturb your peace with idle tale-bearings and eternal complaints? No, madam; I have borne
my own burden in silence, and without disturbing you with murmurs; and the respect with which
you accuse me of wanting, furnishes the only reason why I have neither appealed to you, nor
taken vengeance at my own hand in a manner far more effectual. It is well, however, that we
part. I was not born to be a stipendiary, favoured by his mistress, until ruined by the calumnies
of others. May Heaven multiply its choicest blessings on your honoured head; and, for your
sake, upon all that are dear to you!"

He was about to leave the apartment, when the Lady called upon him to return. He stood still,
while she thus addressed him: "It was not my intention, nor would it be just, even in the height
of my displeasure, to dismiss you without the means of support; take this purse of gold."

"Forgive me, Lady," said the boy, "and let me go hence with the consciousness that I have not
been degraded to the point of accepting alms. If my poor services can be placed against the
expense of my apparel and my maintenance, I only remain debtor to you for my life, and that
alone is a debt which I can never repay; put up then that purse, and only say, instead, that
you do not part from me in anger."

"No, not in anger," said the Lady, "in sorrow rather for your wilfulness; but take the gold,
you cannot but need it."

"May God evermore bless you for the kind tone and the kind word! but the gold I cannot take.
I am able of body, and do not lack friends so wholly as you may think; for the time may come
that I may yet show myself more thankful than by mere words." He threw himself on his knees,
kissed the hand which she did not withdraw, and then, hastily left the apartment.

Lilias, for a moment or two, kept her eye fixed on her mistress, who looked so unusually pale,
that she seemed about to faint; but the Lady instantly recovered herself, and declining the
assistance which her attendant offered her, walked to her own apartment.

Chapter the Sixth.

  Thou hast each secret of the household, Francis.
  I dare be sworn thou hast been in the buttery,
  Steeping thy curious humour in fat ale,
  And in thy butler's tattle--ay, or chatting
  With the glib waiting-woman o'er her comfits--
  These bear the key to each domestic mystery.
                                  OLD PLAY.

Upon the morrow succeeding the scene we have described, the disgraced favourite left the castle;
and at breakfast-time the cautious old steward and Mrs. Lilias sat in the apartment of the
latter personage, holding grave converse on the important event of the day, sweetened by a
small treat of comfits, to which the providence of Mr. Wingate had added a little flask of
racy canary.

"He is gone at last," said the abigail, sipping her glass; "and here is to his good journey."

"Amen," answered the steward, gravely; "I wish the poor deserted lad no ill."

"And he is gone like a wild-duck, as he came," continued Mrs. Lilias; "no lowering of drawbridges,
or pacing along causeways, for him. My master has pushed off in the boat which they call the
little Herod, (more shame to them for giving the name of a Christian to wood and iron,) and
has rowed himself by himself to the farther side of the loch, and off and away with himself,
and left all his finery strewed about his room. I wonder who is to clean his trumpery out after
him--though the things are worth lifting, too."

"Doubtless, Mistress Lilias," answered the master of the household, "in the which case, I am
free to think, they will not long cumber the floor."

"And now tell me, Master Wingate," continued the damsel, "do not the very cockles of your heart
rejoice at the house being rid of this upstart whelp, that flung us all into shadow?"

"Why, Mistress Lilias," replied Wingate, "as to rejoicing--those who have lived as long in
great families as has been my lot, will be in no hurry to rejoice at any thing. And for Roland
Graeme, though he may be a good riddance in the main, yet what says the very sooth proverb,
'Seldom comes a better.'"

"Seldom comes a better, indeed!" echoed Mrs. Lilias. "I say, never can come a worse, or one
half so bad. He might have been the ruin of our poor dear mistress," (here she used her kerchief,)
"body and soul, and estate too; for she spent more coin on his apparel than on any four servants
about the house."

"Mistress Lilias," said the sage steward, "I do opine that our mistress requireth not this
pity at your hands, being in all respects competent to take care of her own body, soul, and
estate into the bargain."

"You would not mayhap have said so," answered the waiting-woman, "had you seen how like Lot's
wife she looked when young master took his leave. My mistress is a good lady, and a virtuous,
and a well-doing lady, and a well-spoken of--but I would not Sir Halbert had seen her last
evening for two and a plack."

"Oh, foy! foy! foy!" reiterated the steward; "servants should hear and see, and say nothing.
Besides that, my lady is utterly devoted to Sir Halbert, as well she may, being, as he is,
the most renowned knight in these parts."

"Well, well," said the abigail, "I mean no more harm; but they that seek least renown abroad,
are most apt to find quiet at home, that's all; and my Lady's lonesome situation is to be considered,
that made her fain to take up with the first beggar's brat that a dog brought her out of the loch."

"And, therefore," said the steward, "I say, rejoice not too much, or too hastily, Mistress
Lilias; for if your Lady wished a favourite to pass away the time, depend upon it, the time
will not pass lighter now that he is gone. So she will have another favourite to choose for
herself; and be assured, if she wishes such a toy, she will not lack one."

"And where should she choose one, but among her own tried and faithful servants," said Mrs.
Lilias, "who have broken her bread, and drunk her drink, for so many years? I have known many
a lady as high as she is, that never thought either of a friend or favourite beyond their own
waiting-woman--always having a proper respect, at the same time, for their old and faithful
master of the household, Master Wingate."

"Truly, Mistress Lilias," replied the steward, "I do partly see the mark at which you shoot,
but I doubt your bolt will fall short. Matters being with our Lady as it likes you to suppose,
it will neither be your crimped pinners, Mrs. Lilias, (speaking of them with due respect,)
nor my silver hair, or golden chain, that will fill up the void which Roland Graeme must needs
leave in our Lady's leisure. There will be a learned young divine with some new doctrine--a
learned leech with some new drug--a bold cavalier, who will not be refused the favour of wearing
her colours at a running at the ring--a cunning harper that could harp the heart out of woman's
breast, as they say Signer David Rizzio did to our poor Queen;--these are the sort of folk
who supply the loss of a well-favoured favourite, and not an old steward, or a middle-aged
waiting-woman."

"Well," replied Lilias, "you have experience, Master Wingate, and truly I would my master would
leave off his picking hither and thither, and look better after the affairs of his household.
There will be a papestrie among us next, for what should I see among master's clothes but a
string of gold beads! I promise you, aves and credos both!--I seized on them like a falcon."

"I doubt it not, I doubt it not," said the steward, sagaciously nodding his head; "I have often
noticed that the boy had strange observances which savoured of popery, and that he was very
jealous to conceal them. But you will find the Catholic under the Presbyterian cloak as often
as the knave under the Friar's hood--what then? we are all mortal--Right proper beads they
are," he added, looking attentively at them, "and may weigh four ounces of fine gold."

"And I will have them melted down presently," she said, "before they be the misguiding of some
poor blinded soul."

"Very cautious, indeed, Mistress Lilias," said the steward, nodding his head in assent.

"I will have them made," said Mrs. Lilias, "into a pair of shoe-buckles; I would not wear the
Pope's trinkets, or whatever has once borne the shape of them, one inch above my instep, were
they diamonds instead of gold.--But this is what has come of Father Ambrose coming about the
castle, as demure as a cat that is about to steal cream."

"Father Ambrose is our master's brother," said the steward gravely.

"Very true, Master Wingate," answered the Dame; "but is that a good reason why he should pervert
the king's liege subjects to papistrie?"

"Heaven forbid, Mistress Lilias," answered the sententious major-domo; "but yet there are worse
folk than the Papists."

"I wonder where they are to be found," said the waiting-woman, with some asperity; "but I believe,
Master Wingate, if one were to speak to you about the devil himself, you would say there were
worse people than Satan."

"Assuredly I might say so," replied the steward, "supposing that I saw Satan standing at my elbow."

The waiting-woman started, and having exclaimed, "God bless us I" added, "I wonder, Master
Wingate, you can take pleasure in frightening one thus."

"Nay, Mistress Lilias, I had no such purpose," was the reply; "but look you here--the Papists
are but put down for the present, but who knows how long this word present will last? There
are two great Popish earls in the north of England, that abominate the very word reformation;
I mean the Northumberland and Westmoreland Earls, men of power enough to shake any throne in
Christendom. Then, though our Scottish king be, God bless him, a true Protestant, yet he is
but a boy; and here is his mother that was our queen--I trust there is no harm to say, God
bless her too--and she is a Catholic; and many begin to think she has had but hard measure,
such as the Hamiltons in the west, and some of our Border clans here, and the Gordons in the
north, who are all wishing to see a new world; and if such a new world should chance to come
up, it is like that the Queen will take back her own crown, and that the mass and the cross
will come up, and then down go pulpits, Geneva-gowns, and black silk skull-caps."

"And have you, Master Jasper Wingate, who have heard the word, and listened unto pure and precious
Mr. Henry Warden, have you, I say, the patience to speak, or but to think, of popery coming
down on us like a storm, or of the woman Mary again making the royal seat of Scotland a throne
of abomination? No marvel that you are so civil to the cowled monk, Father Ambrose, when he
comes hither with his downcast eyes that he never raises to my Lady's face, and with his low
sweet-toned voice, and his benedicites, and his benisons; and who so ready to take them kindly
as Master Wingate?"

"Mistress Lilias," replied the butler, with an air which was intended to close the debate,
"there are reasons for all things. If I received Father Ambrose debonairly, and suffered him
to steal a word now arid then with this same Roland Graeme, it was not that I cared a brass
bodle for his benison or malison either, but only because I respected my master's blood. And
who can answer, if Mary come in again, whether he may not be as stout a tree to lean to as
ever his brother hath proved to us? For down goes the Earl of Murray when the Queen comes by
her own again; and good is his luck if he can keep the head on his own shoulders. And down
goes our Knight, with the Earl, his patron; and who so like to mount into his empty saddle
as this same Father Ambrose? The Pope of Rome can so soon dispense with his vows, and then
we should have Sir Edward the soldier, instead of Ambrose the priest."

Anger and astonishment kept Mrs. Lilias silent,--while her old friend, in his self-complacent
manner, was making known to her his political speculations. At length her resentment found
utterance in words of great ire and scorn. "What, Master Wingate! have you eaten my mistress's
bread, to say nothing of my master's, so many years, that you could live to think of her being
dispossessed of her own Castle of Avenel, by a wretched monk, who is not a drop's blood to
her in the way of relation? I, that am but a woman, would try first whether my rock or his
cowl was the better metal. Shame on you, Master Wingate! I If I had not held you as so old
an acquaintance, this should have gone to my Lady's ears though I had been called pickthank
and tale-pyet for my pains, as when I told of Roland Graeme shooting the wild swan."

Master Wingate was somewhat dismayed at perceiving, that the details which he had given of
his far-sighted political views had produced on his hearer rather suspicion of his fidelity,
than admiration of his wisdom, and endeavoured, as hastily as possible, to apologize and to
explain, although internally extremely offended at the unreasonable view, as he deemed it,
which it had pleased Mistress Lilias Bradbourne to take of his expressions; and mentally convinced
that her disapprobation of his sentiments arose solely out of the consideration, that though
Father Ambrose, supposing him to become the master of the castle, would certainly require the
services of a steward, yet those of a waiting-woman would, in the supposed circumstances, be
altogether superfluous.

After his explanation had been received as explanations usually are, the two friends separated;
Lilias to attend the silver whistle which called her to her mistress's chamber, and the sapient
major-domo to the duties of his own department. They parted with less than their usual degree
of reverence and regard; for the steward felt that his worldly wisdom was rebuked by the more
disinterested attachment of the waiting-woman, and Mistress Lilias Bradbourne was compelled
to consider her old friend as something little better than a time-server.

Chapter the Seventh.

  When I hae a saxpence under my thumb,
  Then I get credit in ilka town;
  But when I am puir they bid me gae by--
  Oh, poverty parts good company!
                         OLD SONG.

While the departure of the page afforded subject for the conversation which we have detailed
in our last chapter, the late favourite was far advanced on his solitary journey, without well
knowing what was its object, or what was likely to be its end. He had rowed the skiff in which
he left the castle, to the side of the lake most distant from the village, with the desire
of escaping from the notice of the inhabitants. His pride whispered, that he would be in his
discarded state, only the subject of their wonder and compassion; and his generosity told him,
that any mark of sympathy which his situation should excite, might be unfavourably reported
at the castle. A trifling incident convinced him he had little to fear for his friends on the
latter score. He was met by a young man some years older than himself, who had on former occasions
been but too happy to be permitted to share in his sports in the subordinate character of his
assistant. Ralph Fisher approached to greet him, with all the alacrity of an humble friend.

"What, Master Roland, abroad on this side, and without either hawk or hound?"

"Hawk or hound," said Roland, "I will never perhaps hollo to again. I have been dismissed--that
is, I have left the castle."

Ralph was surprised. "What! you are to pass into the Knight's service, and take the black jack
and the lance?"

"Indeed," replied Roland Graeme, "I am not--I am now leaving the service of Avenel for ever."

"And whither are you going, then?" said the young peasant.

"Nay, that is a question which it craves time to answer--I have that matter to determine yet,"
replied the disgraced favourite.

"Nay, nay," said Ralph, "I warrant you it is the same to you which way you go--my Lady would
not dismiss you till she had put some lining into the pouches of your doublet."

"Sordid slave!" said Roland Graeme, "dost thou think I would have accepted a boon from one
who was giving me over a prey to detraction and to ruin, at the instigation of a canting priest
and a meddling serving-woman? The bread that I had bought with such an alms would have choked
me at the first mouthful."

Ralph looked at his quondam friend with an air of wonder not unmixed with contempt. "Well,"
he said, at length, "no occasion for passion--each man knows his own stomach best--but, were
I on a black moor at this time of day, not knowing whither I was going, I should be glad to
have a broad piece or two in my pouch, come by them as I could.--But perhaps you will go with
me to my father's--that is, for a night, for to-morrow we expect my uncle Menelaus and all
his folk; but, as I said, for one night----"

The cold-blooded limitation of the offered shelter to one night only, and that tendered most
unwillingly, offended the pride of the discarded favourite.

"I would rather sleep on the fresh heather, as I have done many a night on less occasion,"
said Roland Graeme, "than in the smoky garret of your father, that smells of peat smoke and
usquebaugh like a Highlander's plaid."

"You may choose, my master, if you are so nice," replied Ralph Fisher; "you may be glad to
smell a peat-fire, and usquebaugh too, if you journey long in the fashion you propose. You
might have said God-a-mercy for your proffer, though--it is not every one that will put themselves
in the way of ill-will by harbouring a discarded serving-man."

"Ralph," said Roland Graeme, "I would pray you to remember that I have switched you before
now, and this is the same riding-wand which you have tasted."

Ralph, who was a thickset clownish figure, arrived at his full strength, and conscious of the
most complete personal superiority, laughed contemptuously at the threats of the slight-made
stripling.

"It may be the same wand," he said, "but not the same hand; and that is as good rhyme as if
it were in a ballad. Look you, my Lady's page that was, when your switch was up, it was no
fear of you, but of your betters, that kept mine down--and I wot not what hinders me from clearing
old scores with this hazel rung, and showing you it was your Lady's livery-coat which I spared,
and not your flesh and blood, Master Roland."

In the midst of his rage, Roland Graeme was just wise enough to see, that by continuing this
altercation, he would subject himself to very rude treatment from the boor, who was so much
older and stronger than himself; and while his antagonist, with a sort of jeering laugh of
defiance, seemed to provoke the contest, he felt the full bitterness of his own degraded condition,
and burst into a passion of tears, which he in vain endeavoured to conceal with both his hands.

Even the rough churl was moved with the distress of his quondam companion.

"Nay, Master Roland," he said, "I did but as 'twere jest with thee--I would not harm thee,
man, were it but for old acquaintance sake. But ever look to a man's inches ere you talk of
switching--why, thine arm, man, is but like a spindle compared to mine.--But hark, I hear old
Adam Woodcock hollowing to his hawk--Come along, man, we will have a merry afternoon, and go
jollily to my father's in spite of the peat-smoke and usquebaugh to boot. Maybe we may put
you into some honest way of winning your bread, though it's hard to come by in these broken times."

The unfortunate page made no answer, nor did he withdraw his hands from his face, and Fisher
continued in what he imagined a suitable tone of comfort.

"Why, man, when you were my Lady's minion, men held you proud, and some thought you a Papist,
and I wot not what; and so, now that you have no one to bear you out, you must be companionable
and hearty, and wait on the minister's examinations, and put these things out of folk's head;
and if he says you are in fault, you must jouk your head to the stream; and if a gentleman,
or a gentleman's gentleman, give you a rough word, or a light blow, you must only say, thank
you for dusting my doublet, or the like, as I have done by you.--But hark to Woodcock's whistle
again. Come, and I will teach you all the trick on't as we go on."

"I thank you," said Roland Graeme, endeavouring to assume an air of indifference and of superiority;
"but I have another path before me, and were it otherwise, I could not tread in yours."

"Very true, Master Roland," replied the clown; "and every man knows his own matters best, and
so I will not keep you from the path, as you say. Give us a grip of your hand, man, for auld
lang syne.--What! not clap palms ere we part?--well, so be it--a wilful man will have his way,
and so farewell, and the blessing of the morning to you."

"Good-morrow--good-morrow," said Roland, hastily; and the clown walked lightly off, whistling
as he went, and glad, apparently, to be rid of an acquaintance, whose claims might be troublesome,
and who had no longer the means to be serviceable to him.

Roland Graeme compelled himself to walk on while they were within sight of each other that
his former intimate might not augur any vacillation of purpose, or uncertainty of object, from
his remaining on the same spot; but the effort was a painful one. He seemed stunned, as it
were, and giddy; the earth on which he stood felt as if unsound, and quaking under his feet
like the surface of a bog; and he had once or twice nearly fallen, though the path he trode
was of firm greensward. He kept resolutely moving forward, in spite of the internal agitation
to which these symptoms belonged, until the distant form of his acquaintance disappeared behind
the slope of a hill, when his heart failed at once; and, sitting down on the turf, remote from
human ken, he gave way to the natural expressions of wounded pride, grief, and fear, and wept
with unrestrained profusion and unqualified bitterness.

When the first violent paroxysm of his feelings had subsided, the deserted and friendless youth
felt that mental relief which usually follows such discharges of sorrow. The tears continued
to chase each other down his cheeks, but they were no longer accompanied by the same sense
of desolation; an afflicting yet milder sentiment was awakened in his mind, by the recollection
of his benefactress, of the unwearied kindness which had attached her to him, in spite of many
acts of provoking petulance, now recollected as offences of a deep dye, which had protected
him against the machinations of others, as well as against the consequences of his own folly,
and would have continued to do so, had not the excess of his presumption compelled her to withdraw
her protection.

"Whatever indignity I have borne," he said, "has been the just reward of my own ingratitude.
And have I done well to accept the hospitality, the more than maternal kindness, of my protectress,
yet to detain from her the knowledge of my religion?--but she shall know that a Catholic has
as much gratitude as a Puritan--that I have been thoughtless, but not wicked--that in my wildest
moments I have loved, respected, and honoured her--and that the orphan boy might indeed be
heedless, but was never ungrateful!"

He turned, as these thoughts passed through his mind, and began hastily to retread his footsteps
towards the castle. But he checked the first eagerness of his repentant haste, when he reflected
on the scorn and contempt with which the family were likely to see the return of the fugitive,
humbled, as they must necessarily suppose him, into a supplicant, who requested pardon for
his fault, and permission to return to his service. He slackened his pace, but he stood not still.

"I care not," he resolutely determined; "let them wink, point, nod, sneer, speak of the conceit
which is humbled, of the pride which has had a fall--I care not; it is a penance due to my
folly, and I will endure it with patience. But if she also, my benefactress, if she also should
think me sordid and weak-spirited enough to beg, not for her pardon alone, but for a renewal
of the advantages which I derived from her favour--her suspicion of my meanness I cannot--I
will not brook."

He stood still, and his pride rallying with constitutional obstinacy against his more just
feeling, urged that he would incur the scorn of the Lady of Avenel, rather than obtain her
favour, by following the course which the first ardour of his repentant feelings had dictated
to him.

"If I had but some plausible pretext," he thought, "some ostensible reason for my return, some
excuse to allege which might show I came not as a degraded supplicant, or a discarded menial,
I might go thither--but as I am, I cannot--my heart would leap from its place and burst."

As these thoughts swept through his mind, something passed in the air so near him as to dazzle
his eyes, and almost to brush the plume in his cap. He looked up--it was the favourite falcon
of Sir Halbert, which, flying around his head, seemed to claim his attention, as that of a
well-known friend. Roland extended his arm, and gave the accustomed whoop, and the falcon instantly
settled on his wrist, and began to prune itself, glancing at the youth from time to time an
acute and brilliant beam of its hazel eye, which seemed to ask why he caressed it not with
his usual fondness.

"Ah, Diamond!" he said, as if the bird understood him, "thou and I must be strangers henceforward.
Many a gallant stoop have I seen thee make, and many a brave heron strike down; but that is
all gone and over, and there is no hawking more for me!"

"And why not, Master Roland," said Adam Woodcock the falconer, who came at that instant from
behind a few alder bushes which had concealed him from view, "why should there be no more hawking
for you? Why, man, what were our life without our sports?--thou know'st the jolly old song--

  "And rather would Allan in dungeon lie,
  Than live at large where the falcon cannot fly;
  And Allan would rather lie in Sexton's pound,
  Than live where he followed not the merry hawk and hound."

The voice of the falconer was hearty and friendly, and the tone in which he half-sung half-recited
his rude ballad, implied honest frankness and cordiality. But remembrance of their quarrel,
and its consequences, embarrassed Roland, and prevented his reply. The falconer saw his hesitation,
and guessed the cause.

"What now," said he, "Master Roland? do you, who are half an Englishman, think that I, who
am a whole one, would keep up anger against you, and you in distress? That were like some of
the Scots, (my master's reverence always excepted,) who can be fair and false, and wait their
time, and keep their mind, as they say, to themselves, and touch pot and flagon with you, and
hunt and hawk with you, and, after all, when time serves, pay off some old feud with the point
of the dagger. Canny Yorkshire has no memory for such old sores. Why, man, an you had hit me
a rough blow, maybe I would rather have taken it from you, than a rough word from another;
for you have a good notion of falconry, though you stand up for washing the meat for the eyases.
So give us your hand, man, and bear no malice."

Roland, though he felt his proud blood rebel at the familiarity of honest Adam's address, could
not resist its downright frankness. Covering his face with the one hand, he held out the other
to the falconer, and returned with readiness his friendly grasp.

"Why, this is hearty now," said Woodcock; "I always said you had a kind heart, though you have
a spice of the devil in your disposition, that is certain. I came this way with the falcon
on purpose to find you, and yon half-bred lubbard told me which way you took flight. You ever
thought too much of that kestril-kite, Master Roland, and he knows nought of sport after all,
but what he caught from you. I saw how it had been betwixt you, and I sent him out of my company
with a wanion--I would rather have a rifler on my perch than a false knave at my elbow--and
now, Master Roland, tell me what way wing ye?"

"That is as God pleases," replied the page, with a sigh which he could not suppress.

"Nay, man, never droop a feather for being cast off," said the falconer; "who knows but you
may soar the better and fairer flight for all this yet?--Look at Diamond there, 'tis a noble
bird, and shows gallantly with his hood, and bells, and jesses; but there is many a wild falcon
in Norway that would not change properties with him--And that is what I would say of you. You
are no longer my Lady's page, and you will not clothe so fair, or feed so well, or sleep so
soft, or show so gallant--What of all that? if you are not her page, you are your own man,
and may go where you will, without minding whoop or whistle. The worst is the loss of the sport,
but who knows what you may come to? They say that Sir Halbert himself, I speak with reverence,
was once glad to be the Abbot's forester, and now he has hounds and hawks of his own, and Adam
Woodcock for a falconer to the boot."

"You are right, and say well, Adam," answered the youth, the blood mantling in his cheeks,
"the falcon will soar higher without his bells than with them, though the bells be made of silver."

"That is cheerily spoken," replied the falconer; "and whither now?"

"I thought of going to the Abbey of Kennaquhair," answered Roland Graeme, "to ask the counsel
of Father Ambrose."

"And joy go with you," said the falconer, "though it is likely you may find the old monks in
some sorrow; they say the commons are threatening to turn them out of their cells, and make
a devil's mass of it in the old church, thinking they have forborne that sport too long; and
troth I am clear of the same opinion."

"Then will Father Ambrose be the better of having a friend beside him!" said the page, manfully.

"Ay, but, my young fearnought," replied the falconer, "the friend will scarce be the better
of being beside Father Ambrose--he may come by the redder's lick, and that is ever the worst
of the battle."

"I care not for that," said the page, "the dread of a lick should not hold me back; but I fear
I may bring trouble between the brothers by visiting Father Ambrose. I will tarry to-night
at Saint Cuthbert's cell, where the old priest will give me a night's shelter; and I will send
to Father Ambrose to ask his advice before I go down to the convent."

"By Our Lady," said the falconer, "and that is a likely plan--and now," he continued, exchanging
his frankness of manner for a sort of awkward embarrassment, as if he had somewhat to say that
he had no ready means to bring out--"and now, you wot well that I wear a pouch for my hawk's
meat, [Footnote: This same hag, like every thing belonging to falconry, was esteemed an honourable
distinction, and worn often by the nobility and gentry. One of the Sommervilles of Camnethan
was called Sir John with the red bag, because it was his wont to wear his hawking pouch covered
with satin of that colour.] and so forth; but wot you what it is lined with, Master Roland?"

"With leather, to be sure," replied Roland, somewhat surprised at the hesitation with which
Adam Woodcock asked a question apparently so simple.

"With leather, lad?" said Woodcock; "ay, and with silver to the boot of that. See here," he
said, showing a secret slit in the lining of his bag of office--"here they are, thirty good
Harry groats as ever were struck in bluff old Hal's time, and ten of them are right heartily
at your service; and now the murder is out."

Roland's first idea was to refuse his assistance; but he recollected the vows of humility which
he had just taken upon him, and it occurred that this was the opportunity to put his new-formed
resolution to the test. Assuming a strong command of himself, he answered Adam Woodcock with
as much frankness as his nature permitted him to wear, in doing what was so contrary to his
inclinations, that he accepted thankfully of his kind offer, while, to soothe his own reviving
pride, he could not help adding, "he hoped soon to requite the obligation."

"That as you list--that as you list, young man," said the falconer, with glee, counting out
and delivering to his young friend the supply he had so generously offered, and then adding,
with great cheerfulness,--"Now you may go through the world; for he that can back a horse,
wind a horn, hollow a greyhound, fly a hawk, and play at sword and buckler, with a whole pair
of shoes, a green jacket, and ten lily-white groats in his pouch, may bid Father Care hang
himself in his own jesses. Farewell, and God be with you!"

So saying, and as if desirous to avoid the thanks of his companion, he turned hastily round,
and left Roland Graeme to pursue his journey alone.

Chapter the Eight.

  The sacred tapers lights are gone.
  Gray moss has clad the altar stone,
  The holy image is o'erthrown,
    The bell has ceased to toll,
  The long ribb'd aisles are burst and shrunk,
  The holy shrines to ruin sunk,
  Departed is the pious monk,
    God's blessing on his soul!
                             REDIVIVA.

The cell of Saint Cuthbert, as it was called, marked, or was supposed to mark, one of those
resting-places, which that venerable saint was pleased to assign to his monks, when his convent,
being driven from Lindisfern by the Danes, became a peripatetic society of religionists, and
bearing their patron's body on their shoulders, transported him from place to place through
Scotland and the borders of England, until he was pleased at length to spare them the pain
of carrying him farther, and to choose his ultimate place of rest in the lordly towers of Durham.
The odour of his sanctity remained behind him at each place where he had granted the monks
a transient respite from their labours; and proud were those who could assign, as his temporary
resting-place, any spot within their vicinity. There were few cells more celebrated and honoured
than that of Saint Cuthbert, to which Roland Graeme now bent his way, situated considerably
to the north-west of the great Abbey of Kennaquhair, on which it was dependent. In the neighbourhood
were some of those recommendations which weighed with the experienced priesthood of Rome, in
choosing their sites for places of religion.

There was a well, possessed of some medicinal qualities, which, of course, claimed the saint
for its guardian and patron, and occasionally produced some advantage to the recluse who inhabited
his cell, since none could reasonably expect to benefit by the fountain who did not extend
their bounty to the saint's chaplain. A few rods of fertile land afforded the monk his plot
of garden ground; an eminence well clothed with trees rose behind the cell, and sheltered it
from, the north and the east, while the front, opening to the south-west, looked up a wild
but pleasant valley, down which wandered a lively brook, which battled with every stone that
interrupted its passage.

The cell itself was rather plainly than rudely constructed--a low Gothic building with two
small apartments, one of which served the priest for his dwelling-place, the other for his
chapel. As there were few of the secular clergy who durst venture to reside so near the Border,
the assistance of this monk in spiritual affairs had not been useless to the community, while
the Catholic religion retained the ascendancy; as he could marry, christen, and administer
the other sacraments of the Roman church. Of late, however, as the Protestant doctrines gained
ground, he had found it convenient to live in close retirement, and to avoid, as much as possible,
drawing upon himself observation or animadversion. The appearance of his habitation, however,
when Roland Graeme came before it in the close of the evening, plainly showed that his caution
had been finally ineffectual.

The page's first movement was to knock at the door, when he observed, to his surprise, that
it was open, not from being left unlatched, but because, beat off its upper hinge, it was only
fastened to the door-post by the lower, and could therefore no longer perform its functions.
Somewhat alarmed at this, and receiving no answer when he knocked and called, Roland began
to look more at leisure upon the exterior of the little dwelling before he ventured to enter
it. The flowers, which had been trained with care against the walls, seemed to have been recently
torn down, and trailed their dishonoured garlands on the earth; the latticed window was broken
and dashed in. The garden, which the monk had maintained by his constant labour in the highest
order and beauty, bore marks of having been lately trod down and destroyed by the hoofs of
animals, and the feet of men.

The sainted spring had not escaped. It was wont to rise beneath a canopy of ribbed arches,
with which the devotion of elder times had secured and protected its healing waters. These
arches were now almost entirely demolished, and the stones of which they were built were tumbled
into the well, as if for the purpose of choking up and destroying the fountain, which, as it
had shared in other days the honour of the saint, was, in the present, doomed to partake his
unpopularity. Part of the roof had been pulled down from the house itself, and an attempt had
been made with crows and levers upon one of the angles, by which several large corner-stones
had been forced out of their place; but the solidity of ancient mason-work had proved too great
for the time or patience of the assailants, and they had relinquished their task of destruction.
Such dilapidated buildings, after the lapse of years, during which nature has gradually covered
the effects of violence with creeping plants, and with weather-stains, exhibit, amid their
decay, a melancholy beauty. But when the visible effects of violence appear raw and recent,
there is no feeling to mitigate the sense of devastation with which they impress the spectators;
and such was now the scene on which the youthful page gazed, with the painful feelings it was
qualified to excite.

When his first momentary surprise was over, Roland Graeme was at no loss to conjecture the
cause of these ravages. The destruction of the Popish edifices did not take place at once throughout
Scotland, but at different times, and according to the spirit which actuated the reformed clergy;
some of whom instigated their hearers to these acts of demolition, and others, with better
taste and feeling, endeavoured to protect the ancient shrines, while they desired to see them
purified from the objects which had attracted idolatrous devotion. From time to time, therefore,
the populace of the Scottish towns and villages, when instigated either by their own feelings
of abhorrence for Popish superstition, or by the doctrines of the more zealous preachers, resumed
the work of destruction, and exercised it upon some sequestered church, chapel, or cell, which
had escaped the first burst of their indignation against the religion of Rome. In many places,
the vices of the Catholic clergy, arising out of the wealth and the corruption of that tremendous
hierarchy, furnished too good an apology for wreaking vengeance upon the splendid edifices
which they inhabited; and of this an old Scottish historian gives a remarkable instance.

"Why mourn ye," said an aged matron, seeing the discontent of some of the citizens, while a
stately convent was burnt by the multitude,-- "why mourn ye for its destruction? If you knew
half the flagitious wickedness which has been perpetrated within that house, you would rather
bless the divine judgment, which permits not even the senseless walls that screened such profligacy,
any longer to cumber Christian ground."

But although, in many instances, the destruction of the Roman Catholic buildings might be,
in the matron's way of judging, an act of justice, and in others an act of policy, there is
no doubt that the humour of demolishing monuments of ancient piety and munificence, and that
in a poor country like Scotland, where there was no chance of their being replaced, was both
useless, mischievous, and barbarous.

In the present instance, the unpretending and quiet seclusion of the monk of Saint Cuthbert's
had hitherto saved him from the general wreck; but it would seem ruin had now at length reached
him. Anxious to discover if he had at least escaped personal harm, Roland Graeme entered the
half ruined cell.

The interior of the building was in a state which fully justified the opinion he had formed
from its external injuries. The few rude utensils of the solitary's hut were broken down, and
lay scattered on the floor, where it seemed as if a fire had been made with some of the fragments
to destroy the rest of his property, and to consume, in particular, the rude old image of Saint
Cuthbert, in its episcopal habit, which lay on the hearth like Dagon of yore, shattered with
the axe and scorched with the flames, but only partially destroyed. In the little apartment
which served as a chapel, the altar was overthrown, and the four huge stones of which it had
been once composed lay scattered around the floor. The large stone crucifix which occupied
the niche behind the altar, and fronted the supplicant while he paid his devotion there, had
been pulled down and dashed by its own weight into three fragments. There were marks of sledge-hammers
on each of these; yet the image had been saved from utter demolition by the size and strength
of the remaining fragments, which, though much injured, retained enough of the original sculpture
to show what it had been intended to represent.

[Footnote: I may here observe, that this is entirely an ideal scene. Saint Cuthbert, a person
of established sanctity, had, no doubt, several places of worship on the Borders, where he
flourished whilst living; but Tillmouth Chapel is the only one which bears some resemblance
to the hermitage described in the text. It has, indeed, a well, famous for gratifying three
wishes for every worshipper who shall quaff the fountain with sufficient belief in its efficacy.
At this spot the Saint is said to have landed in his stone coffin, in which he sailed down
the Tweed from Melrose and here the stone coffin long lay, in evidence of the fact. The late
Sir Francis Blake Delaval is said to have taken the exact measure of the coffin, and to have
ascertained, by hydrostatic principles, that it might have actually swum. A profane farmer
in the neighborhood announced his intention of converting this last bed of the Saint into a
trough for his swine; but the profanation was rendered impossible, either by the Saint, or
by some pious votary in his behalf, for on the following morning the stone sarcophargus was
found broken in two fragments.

Tillmouth Chapel, with these points of resemblance, lies, however, in exactly the opposite
direction as regards Melrose, which the supposed cell of St. Cuthbert is said to have borne
towards Kennaquhair.]

Roland Graeme, secretly nursed in the tenets of Rome, saw with horror the profanation of the
most sacred emblem, according to his creed, of our holy religion.

"It is the badge of our redemption," he said, "which the felons have dared to violate--would
to God my weak strength were able to replace it--my humble strength, to atone for the sacrilege!"

He stooped to the task he first meditated, and with a sudden, and to himself almost an incredible
exertion of power, he lifted up the one extremity of the lower shaft of the cross, and rested
it upon the edge of the large stone which served for its pedestal. Encouraged by this success,
he applied his force to the other extremity, and, to his own astonishment, succeeded so far
as to erect the lower end of the limb into the socket, out of which it had been forced, and
to place this fragment of the image upright.

While he was employed in this labour, or rather at the very moment when he had accomplished
the elevation of the fragment, a voice, in thrilling and well-known accents, spoke behind him
these words:--"Well done, thou good and faithful servant! Thus would I again meet the child
of my love--the hope of my aged eyes."

Roland turned round in astonishment, and the tall commanding form of Magdalen Graeme stood
beside him. She was arrayed in a sort of loose habit, in form like that worn by penitents in
Catholic countries, but black in colour, and approaching as near to a pilgrim's cloak as it
was safe to wear in a country where the suspicion of Catholic devotion in many places endangered
the safety of those who were suspected of attachment to the ancient faith. Roland Graeme threw
himself at her feet. She raised and embraced him, with affection indeed, but not unmixed with
gravity which amounted almost to sternness.

"Thou hast kept well," she said, "the bird in thy bosom. [Footnote: An expression used by Sir
Ralph Percy, slain in the battle of Hedgly-moor in 1464, when dying, to express his having
preserved unstained his fidelity to the house of Lancaster.] As a boy, as a youth, thou hast
held fast thy faith amongst heretics--thou hast kept thy secret and mine own amongst thine
enemies. I wept when I parted from you--I who seldom weep, then shed tears, less for thy death
than for thy spiritual danger--I dared not even see thee to bid thee a last farewell--my grief,
my swelling grief, had betrayed me to these heretics. But thou hast been faithful--down, down
on thy knees before the holy sign, which evil men injure and blaspheme; down, and praise saints
and angels for the grace they have done thee, in preserving thee from the leprous plague which
cleaves to the house in which thou wert nurtured."

"If, my mother--so I must ever call you" replied Graeme,--"if I am returned such as thou wouldst
wish me, thou must thank the care of the pious father Ambrose, whose instructions confirmed
your early precepts, and taught me at once to be faithful and to be silent."

"Be he blessed for it," said she; "blessed in the cell and in the field, in the pulpit and
at the altar--the saints rain blessings on him!--they are just, and employ his pious care to
counteract the evils which his detested brother works against the realm and the church,--but
he knew not of thy lineage?"

"I could not myself tell him that," answered Roland. "I knew but darkly from your words, that
Sir Halbert Glendinning holds mine inheritance, and that I am of blood as noble as runs in
the veins of any Scottish Baron--these are things not to be forgotten, but for the explanation
I must now look to you."

"And when time suits, thou shalt not look for it in vain. But men say, my son, that thou art
bold and sudden; and those who bear such tempers are not lightly to be trusted with what will
strongly move them."

"Say rather, my mother," returned Roland Graeme, "that I am laggard and cold-blooded--what
patience or endurance can you require of which he is not capable, who for years has heard his
religion ridiculed and insulted, yet failed to plunge his dagger into the blasphemer's bosom!"

"Be contented, my child," replied Magdalen Graeme; "the time, which then and even now demands
patience, will soon ripen to that of effort and action--great events are on the wing, and thou,--thou
shalt have thy share in advancing them. Thou hast relinquished the service of the Lady of Avenel?"

"I have been dismissed from it, my mother--I have lived to be dismissed, as if I were the meanest
of the train."

"It is the better, my child," replied she; "thy mind will be the more hardened to undertake
that which must be performed."

"Let it be nothing, then, against the Lady of Avenel," said the page, "as thy look and words
seem to imply. I have eaten her bread--I have experienced her favour--I will neither injure
nor betray her."

"Of that hereafter, my son," said she; "but learn this, that it is not for thee to capitulate
in thy duty, and to say this will I do, and that will I leave undone--No, Roland! God and man
will no longer abide the wickedness of this generation. Seest thou these fragments-- knowest
thou what they represent?--and canst thou think it is for thee to make distinctions amongst
a race so accursed by Heaven, that they renounce, violate, blaspheme, and destroy, whatsoever
we are commanded to believe in, whatsoever we are commanded to reverence?"

As she spoke, she bent her head towards the broken image, with a countenance in which strong
resentment and zeal were mingled with an expression of ecstatic devotion; she raised her left
hand aloft as in the act of making a vow, and thus proceeded; "Bear witness for me, blessed
symbol of our salvation, bear witness, holy saint, within whose violated temple we stand, that
as it is not for vengeance of my own that my hate pursues these people, so neither, for any
favour or earthly affection towards any amongst them, will I withdraw my hand from the plough,
when it shall pass through the devoted furrow! Bear witness, holy saint, once thyself a wanderer
and fugitive as we are now--bear witness, Mother of Mercy, Queen of Heaven--bear witness, saints
and angels!"

In this high train of enthusiasm, she stood, raising her eyes through the fractured roof of
the vault, to the stars which now began to twinkle through the pale twilight, while the long
gray tresses which hung down over her shoulders waved in the night-breeze, which the chasm
and fractured windows admitted freely.

Roland Graeme was too much awed by early habits, as well as by the mysterious import of her
words, to ask for farther explanation of the purpose she obscurely hinted at. Nor did she farther
press him on the subject; for, having concluded her prayer or obtestation, by clasping her
hands together with solemnity, and then signing herself with the cross, she again addressed
her grandson, in a tone more adapted to the ordinary business of life.

"Thou must hence," she said, "Roland, thou must hence, but not till morning--And now, how wilt
thou shift for thy night's quarters?--thou hast been more softly bred than when we were companions
in the misty hills of Cumberland and Liddesdale."

"I have at least preserved, my good mother, the habits which I then learned--can lie hard,
feed sparingly, and think it no hardship. Since I was a wanderer with thee on the hills, I
have been a hunter, and fisher, and fowler, and each of these is accustomed to sleep freely
in a worse shelter than sacrilege has left us here."

"Than sacrilege has left us here!" said the matron, repeating his words, and pausing on them.
"Most true, my son; and God's faithful children are now worst sheltered, when they lodge in
God's own house and the demesne of his blessed saints. We shall sleep cold here, under the
nightwind, which whistles through the breaches which heresy has made. They shall lie warmer
who made them--ay, and through a long hereafter."

Notwithstanding the wild and singular expression of this female, she appeared to retain towards
Roland Graeme, in a strong degree, that affectionate and sedulous love which women bear to
their nurslings, and the children dependent on their care. It seemed as if she would not permit
him to do aught for himself which in former days her attention had been used to do for him,
and that she considered the tall stripling before her as being equally dependent on her careful
attention as when he was the orphan child, who had owed all to her affectionate solicitude.

"What hast thou to eat now?" she said, as, leaving the chapel, they went into the deserted
habitation of the priest; "or what means of kindling a fire, to defend thee from this raw and
inclement air? Poor child! thou hast made slight provision for a long journey; nor hast thou
skill to help thyself by wit, when means are scanty. But Our Lady has placed by thy side one
to whom want, in all its forms, is as familiar as plenty and splendour have formerly been.
And with want, Roland, come the arts of which she is the inventor."

With an active and officious diligence, which strangely contrasted with her late abstracted
and high tone of Catholic devotion, she set about her domestic arrangements for the evening.
A pouch, which was hidden under her garment, produced a flint arid steel, and from the scattered
fragments around (those pertaining to the image of Saint Cuthbert scrupulously excepted) she
obtained splinters sufficient to raise a sparkling and cheerful fire on the hearth of the deserted
cell.

"And now," she said, "for needful food."

"Think not of it, mother," said Roland, "unless you yourself feel hunger. It is a little thing
for me to endure a night's abstinence, and a small atonement for the necessary transgression
of the rules of the Church upon which I was compelled during my stay in the castle."

"Hunger for myself!" answered the matron--"Know, youth, that a mother knows not hunger till
that of her child is satisfied." And with affectionate inconsistency, totally different from
her usual manner, she added, "Roland, you must not fast; you have dispensation; you are young,
and to youth food and sleep are necessaries not to be dispensed with. Husband your strength,
my child,--your sovereign, your religion, your country, require it. Let age macerate by fast
and vigil a body which can only suffer; let youth, in these active times, nourish the limbs
and the strength which action requires."

While she thus spoke, the scrip, which had produced the means of striking fire, furnished provision
for a meal; of which she herself scarce partook, but anxiously watched her charge, taking a
pleasure, resembling that of an epicure, in each morsel which he swallowed with a youthful
appetite which abstinence had rendered unusually sharp. Roland readily obeyed her recommendations,
and ate the food which she so affectionately and earnestly placed before him. But she shook
her head when invited by him in return to partake of the refreshment her own cares had furnished;
and when his solicitude became more pressing, she refused him in a loftier tone of rejection.

"Young man," she said, "you know not to whom or of what you speak. They to whom Heaven declares
its purpose must merit its communication by mortifying the senses; they have that within which
requires not the superfluity of earthly nutriment, which is necessary to those who are without
the sphere of the Vision. To them the watch spent in prayer is a refreshing slumber, and the
sense of doing the will of Heaven is a richer banquet than the tables of monarchs can spread
before them!--But do thou sleep soft, my son," she said, relapsing from the tone of fanaticism
into that of maternal affection and tenderness; "do thou sleep sound while life is but young
with thee, and the cares of the day can be drowned in the slumbers of the evening. Different
is thy duty and mine, and as different the means by which we must qualify and strengthen ourselves
to perform it. From thee is demanded strength of body--from me, strength of soul."

When she thus spoke, she prepared with ready address a pallet-couch, composed partly of the
dried leaves which had once furnished a bed to the solitary, and the guests who occasionally
received his hospitality, and which, neglected by the destroyers of his humble cell, had remained
little disturbed in the corner allotted for them. To these her care added some of the vestures
which lay torn and scattered on the floor. With a zealous hand she selected all such as appeared
to have made any part of the sacerdotal vestments, laying them aside as sacred from ordinary
purposes, and with the rest she made, with dexterous promptness, such a bed as a weary man
might willingly stretch himself on; and during the time she was preparing it, rejected, even
with acrimony, any attempt which the youth made to assist her, or any entreaty which he urged,
that she would accept of the place of rest for her own use. "Sleep thou," said she, "Roland
Graeme, sleep thou--the persecuted, the disinherited orphan--the son of an ill-fated mother--sleep
thou! I go to pray in the chapel beside thee."

The manner was too enthusiastically earnest, too obstinately firm, to permit Roland Graeme
to dispute her will any farther. Yet he felt some shame in giving way to it. It seemed as if
she had forgotten the years that had passed away since their parting; and expected to meet,
in the tall, indulged, and wilful youth, whom she had recovered, the passive obedience of the
child whom she had left in the Castle of Avenel. This did not fail to hurt her grandson's characteristic
and constitutional pride. He obeyed, indeed, awed into submission by the sudden recurrence
of former subordination, and by feelings of affection and gratitude. Still, however, he felt
the yoke.

"Have I relinquished the hawk and the hound," he said, "to become the pupil of her pleasure,
as if I were still a child?--I, whom even my envious mates allowed to be superior in those
exercises which they took most pains to acquire, and which came to me naturally, as if a knowledge
of them had been my birthright? This may not, and must not be. I will be no reclaimed sparrow-hawk,
who is carried hooded on a woman's wrist, and has his quarry only shown to him when his eyes
are uncovered for his flight. I will know her purpose ere it is proposed to me to aid it."

These, and other thoughts, streamed through the mind of Roland Graeme; and although wearied
with the fatigues of the day, it was long ere he could compose himself to rest.

Chapter the Ninth.

  Kneel with me--swear it--'tis not in words I trust,
  Save when they're fenced with an appeal to Heaven.
                                   OLD PLAY

After passing the night in that sound sleep for which agitation and fatigue had prepared him,
Roland was awakened by the fresh morning air, and by the beams of the rising sun. His first
feeling was that of surprise; for, instead of looking forth from a turret window on the Lake
of Avenel, which was the prospect his former apartment afforded, an unlatticed aperture gave
him the view of the demolished garden of the banished anchorite. He sat up on his couch of
leaves, and arranged in his memory, not without wonder, the singular events of the preceding
day, which appeared the more surprising the more he considered them. He had lost the protectress
of his youth, and, in the same day, he had recovered the guide and guardian of his childhood.
The former deprivation he felt ought to be matter of unceasing regret, and it seemed as if
the latter could hardly be the subject of unmixed self-congratulation. He remembered this person,
who had stood to him in the relation of a mother, as equally affectionate in her attention,
and absolute in her authority. A singular mixture of love and fear attended upon his early
remembrances as they were connected with her; and the fear that she might desire to resume
the same absolute control over his motions--a fear which her conduct of yesterday did not tend
much to dissipate--weighed heavily against the joy of this second meeting.

"She cannot mean," said his rising pride, "to lead and direct me as a pupil, when I am at the
age of judging of my own actions?--this she cannot mean, or meaning it, will feel herself strangely
deceived."

A sense of gratitude towards the person against whom his heart thus rebelled, checked his course
of feeling. He resisted the thoughts which involuntarily arose in his mind, as he would have
resisted an actual instigation of the foul fiend; and, to aid him in his struggle, he felt
for his beads. But, in his hasty departure from the Castle of Avenel, he had forgotten and
left them behind him.

"This is yet worse," he said; "but two things I learned of her under the most deadly charge
of secrecy--to tell my beads, and to conceal that I did so; and I have kept my word till now;
and when she shall ask me for the rosary, I must say I have forgotten it! Do I deserve she
should believe me when. I say I have kept the secret of my faith, when I set so light by its
symbol?"

He paced the floor in anxious agitation. In fact, his attachment to his faith was of a nature
very different from that which animated the enthusiastic matron, but which, notwithstanding,
it would have been his last thought to relinquish.

The early charges impressed on him by his grandmother, had been instilled into a mind and memory
of a character peculiarly tenacious. Child as he was, he was proud of the confidence reposed
in his discretion, and resolved to show that it had not been rashly intrusted to him. At the
same time, his resolution was no more than that of a child, and must, necessarily, have gradually
faded away under the operation both of precept and example, during his residence at the Castle
of Avenel, but for the exhortations of Father Ambrose, who, in his lay estate, had been called
Edward Glendinning. This zealous monk had been apprized, by an unsigned letter placed in his
hand by a pilgrim, that a child educated in the Catholic faith was now in the Castle of Avenel,
perilously situated, (so was the scroll expressed,) as ever the three children who were cast
into the fiery furnace of persecution. The letter threw upon Father Ambrose the fault, should
this solitary lamb, unwillingly left within the demesnes of the prowling wolf, become his final
prey. There needed no farther exhortation to the monk than the idea that a soul might be endangered,
and that a Catholic might become an apostate; and he made his visits more frequent than usual
to the castle of Avenel, lest, through want of the private encouragement and instruction which
he always found some opportunity of dispensing, the church should lose a proselyte, and, according
to the Romish creed, the devil acquire a soul.

Still these interviews were rare; and though they encouraged the solitary boy to keep his secret
and hold fast his religion, they were neither frequent nor long enough to inspire him with
any thing beyond a blind attachment to the observances which the priest recommended. He adhered
to the forms of his religion rather because he felt it would be dishonourable to change that
of his fathers, than from any rational conviction or sincere belief of its mysterious doctrines.
It was a principal part of the distinction which, in his own opinion, singled him out from
those with whom he lived, and gave him an additional, though an internal and concealed reason,
for contemning those of the household who showed an undisguised dislike of him, and for hardening
himself against the instructions of the chaplain, Henry Warden.

"The fanatic preacher," he thought within himself, during some one of the chaplain's frequent
discourses against the Church of Rome, "he little knows whose ears are receiving his profane
doctrine, and with what contempt and abhorrence they hear his blasphemies against the holy
religion by which kings have been crowned, and for which martyrs have died!"

But in such proud feelings of defiance of heresy, as it was termed, and of its professors,
which associated the Catholic religion with a sense of generous independence, and that of the
Protestants with the subjugation of his mind and temper to the direction of Mr. Warden, began
and ended the faith of Roland Graeme, who, independently of the pride of singularity, sought
not to understand, and had no one to expound to him, the peculiarities of the tenets which
he professed. His regret, therefore, at missing the rosary which had been conveyed to him through
the hands of Father Ambrose, was rather the shame of a soldier who has dropped his cockade,
or badge of service, than that of a zealous votary who had forgotten a visible symbol of his
religion.

His thoughts on the subject, however, were mortifying, and the more so from apprehension that
his negligence must reach the ears of his relative. He felt it could be no one but her who
had secretly transmitted these beads to Father Ambrose for his use, and that his carelessness
was but an indifferent requital of her kindness.

"Nor will she omit to ask me about them," said he to himself; "for hers is a zeal which age
cannot quell; and if she has not quitted her wont, my answer will not fail to incense her."

While he thus communed with himself, Magdalen Graeme entered the apartment. "The blessing of
the morning on your youthful head, my son," she said, with a solemnity of expression which
thrilled the youth to the heart, so sad and earnest did the benediction flow from her lips,
in a tone where devotion was blended with affection. "And thou hast started thus early from
thy couch to catch the first breath of the dawn? But it is not well, my Roland. Enjoy slumber
while thou canst; the time is not far behind when the waking eye must be thy portion, as well
as mine."

She uttered these words with an affectionate and anxious tone, which showed, that devotional
as were the habitual exercises of her mind, the thoughts of her nursling yet bound her to earth
with the cords of human affection and passion.

But she abode not long in a mood which she probably regarded as a momentary dereliction of
her imaginary high calling--"Come," she said, "youth, up and be doing--It is time that we leave
this place."

"And whither do we go?" said the young man; "or what is the object of our journey?"

The matron stepped back, and gazed on him with surprise, not unmingled with displeasure.

"To what purpose such a question?" she said; "is it not enough that I lead the way? Hast thou
lived with heretics till thou hast learned to instal the vanity of thine own private judgment
in place of due honour and obedience?"

"The time," thought Roland Graeme within himself, "is already come, when I must establish my
freedom, or be a willing thrall for ever--I feel that I must speedily look to it."

She instantly fulfilled his foreboding, by recurring to the theme by which her thoughts seemed
most constantly engrossed, although, when she pleased, no one could so perfectly disguise her
religion.

"Thy beads, my son--hast thou told thy beads?"

Roland Graeme coloured high; he felt the storm was approaching, but scorned to avert it by
a falsehood.

"I have forgotten my rosary," he said, "at the Castle of Avenel."

"Forgotten thy rosary!" she exclaimed; "false both to religion and to natural duty, hast thou
lost what was sent so far, and at such risk, a token of the truest affection, that should have
been, every bead of it, as dear to thee as thine eyeballs?"

"I am grieved it should have so chanced, mother," replied the youth, "and much did I value
the token, as coming from you. For what remains, I trust to win gold enough, when I push my
way in the world; and till then, beads of black oak, or a rosary of nuts, must serve the turn."

"Hear him!" said his grandmother; "young as he is, he hath learned already the lessons of the
devil's school! The rosary, consecrated by the Holy Father himself, and sanctified by his blessing,
is but a few knobs of gold, whose value may be replaced by the wages of his profane labour,
and whose virtue may be supplied by a string of hazel-nuts!--This is heresy--So Henry Warden,
the wolf who ravages the flock of the Shepherd, hath taught thee to speak and to think."

"Mother," said Roland Graeme, "I am no heretic; I believe and I pray according to the rules
of our church--This misfortune I regret, but I cannot amend it."

"Thou canst repent it, though," replied his spiritual directress, "repent it in dust and ashes,
atone for it by fasting, prayer, and penance, instead of looking on me with a countenance as
light as if thou hadst lost but a button from thy cap."

"Mother," said Roland, "be appeased; I will remember my fault in the next confession which
I have space and opportunity to make, and will do whatever the priest may require of me in
atonement. For the heaviest fault I can do no more.--But, mother," he added, after a moment's
pause, "let me not incur your farther displeasure, if I ask whither our journey is bound, and
what is its object. I am no longer a child, but a man, and at my own disposal, with down upon
my chin, and a sword by my side--I will go to the end of the world with you to do your pleasure;
but I owe it to myself to inquire the purpose and direction of our travels."

"You owe it to yourself, ungrateful boy?" replied his relative, passion rapidly supplying the
colour which age had long chased from her features,--"to yourself you owe nothing--you can
owe nothing--to me you owe every thing--your life when an infant--your support while a child--the
means of instruction, and the hopes of honour--and, sooner than thou shouldst abandon the noble
cause to which I have devoted thee, would I see thee lie a corpse at my feet!"

Roland was alarmed at the vehement agitation with which she spoke, and which threatened to
overpower her aged frame; and he hastened to reply,--"I forget nothing of what I owe to you,
my dearest mother--show me how my blood can testify my gratitude, and you shall judge if I
spare it. But blindfold obedience has in it as little merit as reason."

"Saints and angels!" replied Magdalen, "and do I hear these words from the child of my hopes,
the nursling by whose bed I have kneeled, and for whose weal I have wearied every saint in
heaven with prayers? Roland, by obedience only canst thou show thy affection and thy gratitude.
What avails it that you might perchance adopt the course I propose to thee, were it to be fully
explained? Thou wouldst not then follow my command, but thine own judgment; thou wouldst not
do the will of Heaven, communicated through thy best friend, to whom thou owest thine all;
but thou wouldst observe the blinded dictates of thine own imperfect reason. Hear me, Roland!
a lot calls thee--solicits thee--demands thee--the proudest to which man can be destined, and
it uses the voice of thine earliest, thy best, thine only friend--Wilt thou resist it? Then
go thy way--leave me here--my hopes on earth are gone and withered--I will kneel me down before
yonder profaned altar, and when the raging heretics return, they shall dye it with the blood
of a martyr."

"But, my dearest mother," said Roland Graeme, whose early recollections of her violence were
formidably renewed by these wild expressions of reckless passion, "I will not forsake you--I
will abide with you--worlds shall not force me from your side--I will protect--I will defend
you--I will live with you, and die for you!"

"One word, my son, were worth all these--say only, 'I will obey you.'"

"Doubt it not, mother," replied the youth, "I will, and that with all my heart; only----"

"Nay, I receive no qualifications of thy promise," said Magdalen Graeme, catching at the word,
"the obedience which I require is absolute; and a blessing on thee, thou darling memory of
my beloved child, that thou hast power to make a promise so hard to human pride! Trust me well,
that in the design in which thou dost embark, thou hast for thy partners the mighty and the
valiant, the power of the church, and the pride of the noble. Succeed or fail, live or die,
thy name shall be among those with whom success or failure is alike glorious, death or life
alike desirable. Forward, then, forward! life is short, and our plan is laborious--Angels,
saints, and the whole blessed host of heaven, have their eyes even now on this barren and blighted
land of Scotland--What say I? on Scotland? their eye is on us, Roland--on the frail woman,
on the inexperienced youth, who, amidst the ruins which sacrilege hath made in the holy place,
devote themselves to God's cause, and that of their lawful Sovereign. Amen, so be it! The blessed
eyes of saints and martyrs, which see our resolve, shall witness the execution; or their ears,
which hear our vow, shall hear our death-groan, drawn in the sacred cause!"

While thus speaking, she held Roland Graeme firmly with one hand, while she pointed upward
with the other, to leave him, as it were, no means of protest against the obtestation to which
he was thus made a party. When she had finished her appeal to Heaven, she left him no leisure
for farther hesitation, or for asking any explanation of her purpose; but passing with the
same ready transition as formerly, to the solicitous attentions of an anxious parent, overwhelmed
him with questions concerning his residence in the Castle of Avenel, and the qualities and
accomplishments he had acquired.

"It is well," she said, when she had exhausted her inquiries, "my gay goss-hawk

[Footnote: The comparison is taken from some beautiful verses in an old ballad, entitled Fause
Foodrage, published in the "Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border." A deposed queen, to preserve
her infant son from the traitors who have slain his father, exchanges him with the female offspring
of a faithful friend, and goes on to direct the education of the children, and the private
signals by which the parents are to hear news each of her own offspring.

 "And you shall learn my gay goss-hawk
  Right well to breast a steed;
  And so will I your turtle dow,
  As well to write and read.

  And ye shall learn my gay goss-hawk
  To wield both bow and brand;
  And so will I your turtle dow,
  To lay gowd with her hand.

  At kirk or market when we meet,
  We'll dare make no avow,
  But, 'Dame, how does my gay goss-hawk?'
  'Madame, how does my dow?'" ]

hath been well trained, and will soar high; but those who bred him will have cause to fear
as well as to wonder at his flight.--Let us now," she said, "to our morning meal, and care
not though it be a scanty one. A few hours' walk will bring us to more friendly quarters."

They broke their fast accordingly, on such fragments as remained of their yesterday's provision,
and immediately set out on their farther journey. Magdalen Graeme led the way, with a firm
and active step much beyond her years, and Roland Graeme followed, pensive and anxious, and
far from satisfied with the state of dependence to which he seemed again to be reduced.

"Am I for ever," he said to himself, "to be devoured with the desire of independence and free
agency, and yet to be for ever led on, by circumstances, to follow the will of others?"

Chapter the Tenth.

  She dwelt unnoticed and alone,
    Beside the springs of Dove:
  A maid whom there was none to praise,
    And very few to love.
                        WORDSWORTH.

In the course of their journey the travellers spoke little to each other. Magdalen Graeme chanted,
from time to time, in a low voice, a part of some one of those beautiful old Latin hymns which
belong to the Catholic service, muttered an Ave or a Credo, and so passed on, lost in devotional
contemplation. The meditations of her grandson were more bent on mundane matters; and many
a time, as a moor-fowl arose from the heath, and shot along the moor, uttering his bold crow
of defiance, he thought of the jolly Adam Woodcock, and his trusty goss-hawk; or, as they passed
a thicket where the low trees and bushes were intermingled with tall fern, furze, and broom,
so as to form a thick and intricate cover, his dreams were of a roebuck and a brace of gaze-hounds.
But frequently his mind returned to the benevolent and kind mistress whom he had left behind
him, offended justly, and unreconciled by any effort of his.

"My step would be lighter," he thought, "and so would my heart, could I but have returned to
see her for one instant, and to say, Lady, the orphan boy was wild, but not ungrateful!"

Travelling in these divers moods, about the hour of noon they reached a small straggling village,
in which, as usual, were seen one or two of those predominating towers, or peel houses, which,
for reasons of defence elsewhere detailed, were at that time to be found in every Border hamlet.
A brook flowed beside the village, and watered the valley in which it stood. There was also
a mansion at the end of the village, and a little way separated from it, much dilapidated,
and in very bad order, but appearing to have been the abode of persons of some consideration.
The situation was agreeable, being an angle formed by the stream, bearing three or four large
sycamore trees, which were in full leaf, and served to relieve the dark appearance of the mansion,
which was built of a deep red stone. The house itself was a large one, but was now obviously
too big for the inmates; several windows were built up, especially those which opened from
the lower story; others were blockaded in a less substantial manner. The court before the door,
which had once been defended with a species of low outer-wall, now ruinous, was paved, but
the stones were completely covered with long gray nettles, thistles, and other weeds, which,
shooting up betwixt the flags, had displaced many of them from their level. Even matters demanding
more peremptory attention had been left neglected, in a manner which argued sloth or poverty
in the extreme. The stream, undermining a part of the bank near an angle of the ruinous wall,
had brought it down, with a corner turret, the ruins of which lay in the bed of the river.
The current, interrupted by the ruins which it had overthrown, and turned yet nearer to the
site of the tower, had greatly enlarged the breach it had made, and was in the process of undermining
the ground on which the house itself stood, unless it were speedily protected by sufficient
bulwarks.

All this attracted Roland Graeme's observation, as they approached the dwelling by a winding
path, which gave them, at intervals, a view of it from different points.

"If we go to yonder house," he said to his mother, "I trust it is but for a short visit. It
looks as if two rainy days from the north-west would send the whole into the brook."

"You see but with the eyes of the body," said the old woman; "God will defend his own, though
it be forsaken and despised of men. Better to dwell on the sand, under his law, than fly to
the rock of human trust."

As she thus spoke, they entered the court before the old mansion, and Roland could observe
that the front of it had formerly been considerably ornamented with carved work, in the same
dark-coloured freestone of which it was built. But all these ornaments had been broken down
and destroyed, and only the shattered vestiges of niches and entablatures now strewed the place
which they had once occupied. The larger entrance in front was walled up, but a little footpath,
which, from its appearance, seemed to be rarely trodden, led to a small wicket, defended by
a door well clenched with iron-headed nails, at which Magdalen Graeme knocked three times,
pausing betwixt each knock, until she heard an answering tap from within. At the last knock,
the wicket was opened by a pale thin female, who said, "Benedicti qui venient in nomine Domini."
They entered, and the portress hastily shut behind them the wicket, and made fast the massive
fastenings by which it was secured.

The female led the way through a narrow entrance, into a vestibule of some extent, paved with
stone, and having benches of the same solid material ranged around. At the upper end was an
oriel window, but some of the intervals formed by the stone shafts and mullions were blocked
up, so that the apartment was very gloomy.

Here they stopped, and the mistress of the mansion, for such she was, embraced Magdalen Graeme,
and greeting her by the title of sister, kissed her with much solemnity, on either side of
the face.

"The blessing of Our Lady be upon you, my sister," were her next words; and they left no doubt
upon Roland's mind respecting the religion of their hostess, even if he could have suspected
his venerable and zealous guide of resting elsewhere than in the habitation of an orthodox
Catholic. They spoke together a few words in private, during which he had leisure to remark
more particularly the appearance of his grandmother's friend.

Her age might be betwixt fifty and sixty; her looks had a mixture of melancholy and unhappiness
that bordered on discontent, and obscured the remains of beauty which age had still left on
her features. Her dress was of the plainest and most ordinary description, of a dark colour,
and, like Magdalen Graeme's, something approaching to a religious habit. Strict neatness and
cleanliness of person, seemed to intimate, that if poor, she was not reduced to squalid or
heart-broken distress, and that she was still sufficiently attached to life to retain a taste
for its decencies, if not its elegancies. Her manner, as well as her features and appearance,
argued an original condition and education far above the meanness of her present appearance.
In short, the whole figure was such as to excite the idea, "That female must have had a history
worth knowing." While Roland Graeme was making this very reflection, the whispers of the two
females ceased, and the mistress of the mansion, approaching him, looked on his face and person
with much attention, and, as it seemed, some interest.

"This, then," she said, addressing his relative, "is the child of thine unhappy daughter, sister
Magdalen; and him, the only shoot from your ancient tree, you are willing to devote to the
Good Cause?"

"Yes, by the rood," answered Magdalen Graeme, in her usual tone of resolved determination,
"to the good cause I devote him, flesh and fell, sinew and limb, body and soul."

"Thou art a happy woman, sister Magdalen," answered her companion, "that, lifted so high above
human affection and human feeling, thou canst bind such a victim to the horns of the altar.
Had I been called to make such a sacrifice--to plunge a youth so young and fair into the plots
and bloodthirsty dealings of the time, not the patriarch Abraham, when he led Isaac up the
mountain, would have rendered more melancholy obedience."

She then continued to look at Roland with a mournful aspect of compassion, until the intentness
of her gaze occasioned his colour to rise, and he was about to move out of its influence, when
he was stopped by his grand-mother with one hand, while with the other she divided the hair
upon his forehead, which was now crimson with bashfulness, while she added, with a mixture
of proud affection and firm resolution,--"Ay, look at him well, my sister, for on a fairer
face thine eye never rested. I too, when I first saw him, after a long separation, felt as
the worldly feel, and was half shaken in my purpose. But no wind can tear a leaf from the withered
tree which has long been stripped of its foliage, and no mere human casualty can awaken the
mortal feelings which have long slept in the calm of devotion."

While the old woman thus spoke, her manner gave the lie to her assertions, for the tears rose
to her eyes while she added, "But the fairer and the more spotless the victim, is it not, my
sister, the more worthy of acceptance?"

She seemed glad to escape from the sensations which agitated her, and instantly added, "He
will escape, my sister--there will be a ram caught in the thicket, and the hand of our revolted
brethren shall not be on the youthfull Joseph. Heaven can defend its own rights, even by means
of babes and sucklings, of women and beardless boys."

"Heaven hath left us," said the other female; "for our sins and our fathers' the succours of
the blessed Saints have abandoned this accursed land. We may win the crown of Martyrdom, but
not that of earthly triumph. One, too, whose prudence was at this deep crisis so indispensable,
has been called to a better world. The Abbot Eustatius is no more."

"May his soul have mercy!" said Magdalen Graeme, "and may Heaven, too, have mercy upon us,
who linger behind in this bloody land! His loss is indeed a perilous blow to our enterprise;
for who remains behind possessing his far-fetched experience, his self-devoted zeal, his consummate
wisdom, and his undaunted courage! He hath fallen with the church's standard in his hand, but
God will raise up another to lift the blessed banner. Whom have the Chapter elected in his room?"

"It is rumoured no one of the few remaining brethren dare accept the office. The heretics have
sworn that they will permit no future election, and will heavily punish any attempt to create
a new Abbot of Saint Mary's. Conjuraverunt inter se principes, dicentes, Projiciamus laqueos ejus."

"Quousque, Domine!"--ejaculated Magdalen; "this, my sister, were indeed a perilous and fatal
breach in our band; but I am firm in my belief, that another will arise in the place of him
so untimely removed. Where is thy daughter Catharine?"

"In the parlour," answered the matron, "but"--She looked at Roland Graeme, and muttered something
in the ear of her friend.

"Fear it not," answered Magdalen Graeme, "it is both lawful and necessary--fear nothing from
him--I would he were as well grounded in the faith by which alone comes safety, as he is free
from thought, deed, or speech of villany. Therein is the heretics' discipline to be commended,
my sister, that they train up their youth in strong morality, and choke up every inlet to youthful
folly."

"It is but a cleansing the outside of the cup," answered her friend, "a whitening of the sepulchre;
but he shall see Catharine, since you, sister, judge it safe and meet.--Follow us, youth,"
she added, and led the way from the apartment--with her friend. These were the only words which
the matron had addressed to Roland Graeme, who obeyed them in silence. As they paced through
several winding passages and waste apartments with a very slow step, the young page had leisure
to make some reflections on his situation,--reflections of a nature which his ardent temper
considered as specially disagreeable. It seemed he had now got two mistresses, or tutoresses,
instead of one, both elderly women, and both, it would seem, in league to direct his motions
according to their own pleasure, and for the accomplishment of plans to which he was no party.
This, he thought, was too much; arguing reasonably enough, that whatever right his grandmother
and benefactress had to guide his motions, she was neither entitled to transfer her authority
or divide it with another, who seemed to assume, without ceremony, the same tone of absolute
command over him.

"But it shall not long continue thus," thought Roland; "I will not be all my life the slave
of a woman's whistle, to go when she bids, and come when she calls. No, by Saint Andrew! the
hand that can hold the lance is above the control of the distaff. I will leave them the slipp'd
collar in their hands on the first opportunity, and let them execute their own devices by their
own proper force. It may save them both from peril, for I guess what they meditate is not likely
to prove either safe or easy--the Earl of Murray and his heresy are too well rooted to be grubbed
up by two old women."

As he thus resolved, they entered a low room, in which a third female was seated. This apartment
was the first he had observed in the mansion which was furnished with moveable seats, and with
a wooden table, over which was laid a piece of tapestry. A carpet was spread on the floor,
there was a grate in the chimney, and, in brief, the apartment had the air of being habitable
and inhabited.

But Roland's eyes found better employment than to make observations on the accommodations of
the chamber; for this second female inhabitant of the mansion seemed something very different
from any thing he had yet seen there. At his first entry, she had greeted with a silent and
low obeisance the two aged matrons, then glancing her eyes towards Roland, she adjusted a veil
which hung back over her shoulders, so as to bring it over her face; an operation which she
performed with much modesty, but without either affected haste or embarrassed timidity.

During this manoeuvre Roland had time to observe, that the face was that of a girl apparently
not much past sixteen, and that the eyes were at once soft and brilliant. To these very favourable
observations was added the certainty that the fair object to whom they referred possessed an
excellent shape, bordering perhaps on enbonpoint, and therefore rather that of a Hebe than
of a Sylph, but beautifully formed, and shown to great advantage by the close jacket and petticoat
which she wore after a foreign fashion, the last not quite long enough to conceal a very pretty
foot, which rested on a bar of the table at which she sate; her round arms and taper fingers
very busily employed in repairing--the piece of tapestry which was spread on it, which exhibited
several deplorable fissures, enough to demand the utmost skill of the most expert seamstress.

It is to be remarked, that it was by stolen glances that Roland Graeme contrived to ascertain
these interesting particulars; and he thought he could once or twice, notwithstanding the texture
of the veil, detect the damsel in the act of taking similar cognizance of his own person. The
matrons in the meanwhile continued their separate conversation, eyeing from time to time the
young people, in a manner which left Roland in no doubt that they were the subject of their
conversation. At length he distinctly heard Magdalen Graeme say these words--"Nay, my sister,
we must give them opportunity to speak together, and to become acquainted; they must be personally
known to each other, or how shall they be able to execute what they are intrusted with?"

It seemed as if the matron, not fully satisfied with her friend's reasoning, continued to offer
some objections; but they were borne down by her more dictatorial friend.

"It must be so," she said, "my dear sister; let us therefore go forth on the balcony, to finish
our conversation.--And do you," she said, addressing Roland and the girl, "become acquainted
with each other."

With this she stepped up to the young woman, and raising her veil, discovered features which,
whatever might be their ordinary complexion, were now covered with a universal blush.

"Licitum sit," said Magdalen, looking at the other matron.

"Vix licitum," replied the other, with reluctant and hesitating acquiescence; and again adjusting
the veil of the blushing girl, she dropped it so as to shade, though not to conceal her countenance,
and whispered to her, in a tone loud enough for the page to hear, "Remember, Catharine, who
thou art, and for what destined."

The matron then retreated with Magdalen Graeme through one of the casements of the apartment,
that opened on a large broad balcony, which, with its ponderous balustrade, had once run along
the whole south front of the building which faced the brook, and formed a pleasant and commodious
walk in the open air. It was now in some places deprived of the balustrade, in others broken
and narrowed; but, ruinous as it was, could still be used as a pleasant promenade. Here then
walked the two ancient dames, busied in their private conversation; yet not so much so, but
that Roland could observe the matrons, as their thin forms darkened the casement in passing
or repassing before it, dart a glance into the apartment, to see how matters were going on there.

Chapter the Eleventh.

  Life hath its May, and is mirthful then:
  The woods are vocal, and the flowers all odour;
  Its very blast has mirth in't,--and the maidens,
  The while they don their cloaks to screen their kirtles,
  Laugh at the rain that wets them.
                             OLD PLAY.

Catherine was at the happy age of innocence and buoyancy of spirit, when, after the first moment
of embarrassment was over, a situation of awkwardness, like that in which she was suddenly
left to make acquaintance with a handsome youth, not even known to her by name, struck her,
in spite of herself, in a ludicrous point of view. She bent her beautiful eyes upon the work
with which she was busied, and with infinite gravity sate out the two first turns of the matrons
upon the balcony; but then, glancing her deep blue eye a little towards Roland, and observing
the embarrassment under which he laboured, now shifting on his chair, and now dangling his
cap, the whole man evincing that he was perfectly at a loss how to open the conversation, she
could keep her composure no longer, but after a vain struggle broke out into a sincere, though
a very involuntary fit of laughing, so richly accompanied by the laughter of her merry eyes,
which actually glanced through the tears which the effort filled them with, and by the waving
of her rich tresses, that the goddess of smiles herself never looked more lovely than Catherine
at that moment. A court page would not have left her long alone in her mirth; but Roland was
country-bred, and, besides, having some jealousy as well as bashfulness, he took it into his
head that he was himself the object of her inextinguishable laughter. His endeavours to sympathize
with Catherine, therefore, could carry him no farther than a forced giggle, which had more
of displeasure than of mirth in it, and which so much enhanced that of the girl, that it seemed
to render it impossible for her ever to bring her laughter to an end, with whatever anxious
pains she laboured to do so. For every one has felt, that when a paroxysm of laughter has seized
him at a misbecoming time and place, the efforts which he made to suppress it, nay, the very
sense of the impropriety of giving way to it, tend only to augment and prolong the irresistible
impulse.

It was undoubtedly lucky for Catherine, as well as for Roland, that the latter did not share
in the excessive mirth of the former. For, seated as she was, with her back to the casement,
Catherine could easily escape the observation of the two matrons during the course of their
promenade; whereas Graeme was so placed, with his side to the window, that his mirth, had he
shared that of his companion, would have been instantly visible, and could not have failed
to give offence to the personages in question. He sate, however, with some impatience, until
Catherine had exhausted either her power or her desire of laughing, and was returning with
good grace to the exercise of her needle, and then he observed with some dryness, that "there
seemed no great occasion to recommend to them to improve their acquaintance, as it seemed,
that they were already tolerably familiar."

Catherine had an extreme desire to set off upon a fresh score, but she repressed it strongly,
and fixing her eyes on her work, replied by asking his pardon, and promising to avoid future
offence.

Roland had sense enough to feel, that an air of offended dignity was very much misplaced, and
that it was with a very different bearing he ought to meet the deep blue eyes which had borne
such a hearty burden in the laughing scene. He tried, therefore, to extricate himself as well
as he could from his blunder, by assuming a tone of correspondent gaiety, and requesting to
know of the nymph, "how it was her pleasure that they should proceed in improving the acquaintance
which had commenced so merrily."

"That," she said, "you must yourself discover; perhaps I have gone a step too far in opening
our interview."

"Suppose," said Roland Graeme, "we should begin as in a tale-book, by asking each other's names
and histories?"

"It is right well imagined," said Catherine, "and shows an argute judgment. Do you begin, and
I will listen, and only put in a question or two at the dark parts of the story. Come, unfold
then your name and history, my new acquaintance."

"I am called Roland Graeme, and that tall woman is my grandmother."

"And your tutoress?--good. Who are your parents?"

"They are both dead," replied Roland.

"Ay, but who were they? you had parents, I presume?"

"I suppose so," said Roland, "but I have never been able to learn much of their history. My
father was a Scottish knight, who died gallantly in his stirrups--my mother was a Graeme of
Hathergill, in the Debateable Land--most of her family were killed when the Debateable country
was burned by Lord Maxwell and Herries of Caerlaverock."

"Is it long ago?" said the damsel.

"Before I was born," answered the page.

"That must be a great while since," said she, shaking her head gravely; "look you, I cannot
weep for them."

"It needs not," said the youth, "they fell with honour."

"So much for your lineage, fair sir," replied his companion, "of whom I like the living specimen
(a glance at the casement) far less than those that are dead. Your much honoured grandmother
looks as if she could make one weep in sad earnest. And now, fair sir, for your own person--if
you tell not the tale faster, it will be cut short in the middle; Mother Bridget pauses longer
and longer every time she passes the window, and with her there is as little mirth as in the
grave of your ancestors."

"My tale is soon told--I was introduced into the castle of Avenel to be page to the lady of
the mansion."

"She is a strict Huguenot, is she not?" said the maiden.

"As strict as Calvin himself. But my grandmother can play the puritan when it suits her purpose,
and she had some plan of her own, for quartering me in the Castle--it would have failed, however,
after we had remained several weeks at the hamlet, but for an unexpected master of ceremonies--"

"And who was that?" said the girl.

"A large black dog, Wolf by name, who brought me into the castle one day in his mouth, like
a hurt wild-duck, and presented me to the lady."

"A most respectable introduction, truly," said Catherine; "and what might you learn at this
same castle? I love dearly to know what my acquaintances can do at need."

"To fly a hawk, hollow to a hound, back a horse, and wield lance, bow, and brand."

"And to boast of all this when you have learned it," said Catherine, "which, in France at least,
is the surest accomplishment of a page. But proceed, fair sir; how came your Huguenot lord
and your no less Huguenot lady to receive and keep in the family so perilous a person as a
Catholic page?"

"Because they knew not that part of my history, which from infancy I have been taught to keep
secret--and because my grand-dame's former zealous attendance on their heretic chaplain, had
laid all this suspicion to sleep, most fair Callipolis," said the page; and in so saying, he
edged his chair towards the seat of the fair querist.

"Nay, but keep your distance, most gallant sir," answered the blue-eyed maiden, "for, unless
I greatly mistake, these reverend ladies will soon interrupt our amicable conference, if the
acquaintance they recommend shall seem to proceed beyond a certain point--so, fair sir, be
pleased to abide by your station, and reply to my questions.--By what achievements did you
prove the qualities of a page, which you had thus happily acquired?"

Roland, who began to enter into the tone and spirit of the damsel's conversation, replied to
her with becoming spirit.

"In no feat, fair gentlewoman, was I found inexpert, wherein there was mischief implied. I
shot swans, hunted cats, frightened serving-women, chased the deer, and robbed the orchard.
I say nothing of tormenting the chaplain in various ways, for that was my duty as a good Catholic."

"Now, as I am a gentlewoman," said Catherine, "I think these heretics have done Catholic penance
in entertaining so all-accomplished a serving-man! And what, fair sir, might have been the
unhappy event which deprived them of an inmate altogether so estimable?"

"Truly, fair gentlewoman," answered the youth, "your real proverb says that the longest lane
will have a turning, and mine was more--it was, in fine, a turning off."

"Good!" said the merry young maiden, "it is an apt play on the word --and what occasion was
taken for so important a catastrophe?--Nay, start not for my learning, I do know the schools--in
plain phrase, why were you sent from service?"

The page shrugged his shoulders while he replied,--"A short tale is soon told--and a short
horse soon curried. I made the falconer's boy taste of my switch--the falconer threatened to
make me brook his cudgel--he is a kindly clown as well as a stout, and I would rather have
been cudgelled by him than any man in Christendom to choose--but I knew not his qualities at
that time--so I threatened to make him brook the stab, and my Lady made me brook the 'Begone;'
so adieu to the page's office and the fair Castle of Avenel--I had not travelled far before
I met my venerable parent--And so tell your tale, fair gentlewoman, for mine is done."

"A happy grandmother," said the maiden, "who had the luck to find the stray page just when
his mistress had slipped his leash, and a most lucky page that has jumped at once from a page
to an old lady's gentleman-usher!"

"All this is nothing of your history," answered Roland Graeme, began to be much interested
in the congenial vivacity of this facetious young gentlewoman,--" tale for tale is fellow-traveller's
justice."

"Wait till we are fellow-travellers, then," replied Catherine.

"Nay, you escape me not so," said the page; "if you deal not justly by me, I will call out
to Dame Bridget, or whatever your dame be called, and proclaim you for a cheat."

"You shall not need," answered the maiden--"my history is the counterpart of your own; the
same words might almost serve, change but dress and name. I am called Catherine Seyton, and
I also am an orphan."

"Have your parents been long dead?"

"This is the only question," said she, throwing down her fine eyes with a sudden expression
of sorrow, "that is the only question I cannot laugh at."

"And Dame Bridget is your grandmother?"

The sudden cloud passed away like that which crosses for an instant the summer sun, and she
answered with her usual lively expression, "Worse by twenty degrees--Dame Bridget is my maiden
aunt."

"Over gods forbode!" said Roland--"Alas! that you have such a tale to tell! and what horror
comes next?"

"Your own history, exactly. I was taken upon trial for service--"

"And turned off for pinching the duenna, or affronting my lady's waiting-woman?"

"Nay, our history varies there," said the damsel--"Our mistress broke up house, or had her
house broke up, which is the same thing, and I am a free woman of the forest."

"And I am as glad of it as if any one had lined my doublet with cloth of gold," said the youth.

"I thank you for your mirth," said she, "but the matter is not likely to concern you."

"Nay, but go on," said the page, "for you will be presently interrupted; the two good dames
have been soaring yonder on the balcony, like two old hooded crows, and their croak grows hoarser
as night comes on; they will wing to roost presently.--This mistress of yours, fair gentlewoman,
who was she, in God's name?"

"Oh, she has a fair name in the world," replied Catherine Seyton. "Few ladies kept a fairer
house, or held more gentlewomen in her household; my aunt Bridget was one of her housekeepers.
We never saw our mistress's blessed face, to be sure, but we heard enough of her; were up early
and down late, and were kept to long prayers and light food."

"Out upon the penurious old beldam!" said the page.

"For Heaven's sake, blaspheme not!" said the girl, with an expression of fear.--"God pardon
us both! I meant no harm. I speak of our blessed Saint Catherine of Sienna!--may God forgive
me that I spoke so lightly, and made you do a great sin and a great blasphemy. This was her
nunnery, in which there were twelve nuns and an abbess. My aunt was the abbess, till the heretics
turned all adrift."

"And where are your companions?" asked the youth.

"With the last year's snow," answered the maiden; "east, north, south, and west--some to France,
some to Flanders, some, I fear, into the world and its pleasures. We have got permission to
remain, or rather our remaining has been connived at, for my aunt has great relations among
the Kerrs, and they have threatened a death-feud if any one touches us; and bow and spear are
the best warrant in these times."

"Nay, then, you sit under a sure shadow," said the youth; "and I suppose you wept yourself
blind when Saint Catherine broke up housekeeping before you had taken arles [Footnote: Anglice--
Earnest-money] in her service?"

"Hush! for Heaven's sake," said the damsel, crossing herself; "no more of that! but I have
not quite cried my eyes out," said she, turning them upon him, and instantly again bending
them upon her work. It was one of those glances which would require the threefold plate of
brass around the heart, more than it is needed by the mariners, to whom Horace recommends it.
Our youthful page had no defence whatever to offer.

"What say you, Catherine," he said, "if we two, thus strangely turned out of service at the
same time, should give our two most venerable duennas the torch to hold, while we walk a merry
measure with each other over the floor of this weary world?"

"A goodly proposal, truly," said Catherine, "and worthy the mad-cap brain of a discarded page!--And
what shifts does your worship propose we should live by?--by singing ballads, cutting purses,
or swaggering on the highway? for there, I think, you would find your most productive exchequer."

"Choose, you proud peat!" said the page, drawing off in huge disdain at the calm and unembarrassed
ridicule with which his wild proposal was received. And as he spoke the words, the casement
was again darkened by the forms of the matrons--it opened, and admitted Magdalen Graeme and
the Mother Abbess, so we must now style her, into the apartment.

Chapter the Twelfth.

  Nay, hear me, brother--I am elder, wiser,
  And holier than thou--And age, and wisdom,
  And holiness, have peremptory claims,
  And will be listen'd to.
                              OLD PLAY.

When the matrons re-entered, and put an end to the conversation--which we have detailed in
the last chapter, Dame Magdalen Graeme thus addressed her grandson and his pretty companion:
"Have you spoke together, my children?--Have you become known to each other as fellow-travellers
on the same dark and dubious road, whom chance hath brought together, and who study to learn
the tempers and dispositions of those by whom their perils are to be shared?"

It was seldom the light-hearted Catharine could suppress a jest, so that she often spoke when
she would have acted more wisely in holding her peace.

"Your grandson admires the journey which you propose so very greatly, that he was even now
preparing for setting out upon it instantly."

"This is to be too forward, Roland," said the dame, addressing him, "as yesterday you were
over slack--the just mean lies in obedience, which both waits for the signal to start, and
obeys it when given.--But once again, my children, have you so perused each other's countenances,
that when you meet, in whatever disguise the times may impose upon you, you may recognize each
in the other the secret agent of the mighty work in which you are to be leagued?--Look at each
other, know each line and lineament of each other's countenance. Learn to distinguish by the
step, by the sound of the voice, by the motion of the hand, by the glance of the eye, the partner
whom Heaven hath sent to aid in working its will.--Wilt thou know that maiden, whensoever,
or wheresoever you shall again meet her, my Roland Graeme?"

As readily as truly did Roland answer in the affirmative. "And thou, my daughter, wilt thou
again remember the features of this youth?"

"Truly, mother," replied Catherine Seyton, "I have not seen so many men of late, that I should
immediately forget your grandson, though I mark not much about him that is deserving of especial
remembrance."

"Join hands, then, my children," said Magdalen Graeme; but, in saying so, was interrupted by
her companion, whose conventual prejudices had been gradually giving her more and more uneasiness,
and who could remain acquiescent no longer.

"Nay, my good sister, you forget," said she to Magdalen, "Catharine is the betrothed bride
of Heaven--these intimacies cannot be."

"It is in the cause of Heaven that I command them to embrace," said Magdalen, with the full
force of her powerful voice; "the end, sister, sanctifies the means we must use."

"They call me Lady Abbess, or Mother at the least, who address me," said Dame Bridget, drawing
herself up, as if offended at her friend's authoritative manner--"the Lady of Heathergill forgets
that she speaks to the Abbess of Saint Catherine."

"When I was what you call me," said Magdalen, "you indeed were the Abbess of Saint Catherine,
but both names are now gone, with all the rank that the world and that the church gave to them;
and we are now, to the eye of human judgment, two poor, despised, oppressed women, dragging
our dishonoured old age to a humble grave. But what are we in the eye of Heaven?--Ministers,
sent forth to work his will,--in whose weakness the strength of the church shall be manifested-before
whom shall be humbled the wisdom of Murray, and the dark strength of Morton,--And to such wouldst
thou apply the narrow rules of thy cloistered seclusion?--or, hast thou forgotten the order
which I showed thee from thy Superior, subjecting thee to me in these matters?"

"On thy head, then, be the scandal and the sin," said the Abbess, sullenly.

"On mine be they both," said Magdalen. "I say, embrace each other, my children."

But Catherine, aware, perhaps, how the dispute was likely to terminate, had escaped from the
apartment, and so disappointed the grandson, at least as much as the old matron.

"She is gone," said the Abbess, "to provide some little refreshment. But it will have little
savour to those who dwell in the world; for I, at least, cannot dispense with the rules to
which I am vowed, because it is the will of wicked men to break down the sanctuary in which
they wont to be observed."

"It is well, my sister," replied Magdalen, "to pay each even the smallest tithes of mint and
cummin which the church demands, and I blame not thy scrupulous observance of the rules of
thine order. But they were established by the church, and for the church's benefit; and reason
it is that they should give way when the salvation of the church herself is at stake."

The Abbess made no reply.

One more acquainted with human nature than the inexperienced page, might have found amusement
in comparing the different kinds of fanaticisms which these two females exhibited. The Abbess,
timid, narrowminded, and discontented, clung to ancient usages and pretensions which were ended
by the Reformation; and was in adversity, as she had been in prosperity, scrupulous, weak-spirited,
and bigoted. While the fiery and more lofty spirit of her companion suggested a wider field
of effort, and would not be limited by ordinary rules in the extraordinary schemes which were
suggested by her bold and irregular imagination. But Roland Graeme, instead of tracing these
peculiarities of character in the two old damps, only waited with great anxiety for the return
of Catherine, expecting probably that the proposal of the fraternal embrace would be renewed,
as his grandmother seemed disposed to carry matters with a high hand.

His expectations, or hopes, if we may call them so, were, however, disappointed; for, when
Catherine re-entered on the summons of the Abbess, and placed on the table an earthen pitcher
of water, and four wooden platters, with cups of the same materials, the Dame of Heathergill,
satisfied with the arbitrary mode in which she had borne down the opposition of the Abbess,
pursued her victory no farther--a moderation for which her grandson, in his heart, returned
her but slender thanks.

In the meanwhile, Catherine continued to place upon the table the slender preparations for
the meal of a recluse, which consisted almost entirely of colewort, boiled and served up in
a wooden platter, having no better seasoning than a little salt, and no better accompaniment
than some coarse barley-bread, in very moderate quantity. The water-pitcher, already mentioned,
furnished the only beverage. After a Latin grace, delivered by the Abbess, the guests sat down
to their spare entertainment. The simplicity of the fare appeared to produce no distaste in
the females, who ate of it moderately, but with the usual appearance of appetite. But Roland
Graeme had been used to better cheer. Sir Halbert Glendinning, who affected even an unusual
degree of nobleness in his housekeeping, maintained it in a style of genial hospitality, which
rivalled that of the Northern Barons of England. He might think, perhaps, that by doing so,
he acted yet more completely the part for which he was born--that of a great Baron and a leader.
Two bullocks, and six sheep, weekly, were the allowance when the Baron was at home, and the
number was not greatly diminished during his absence. A boll of malt was weekly brewed into
ale, which was used by the household at discretion. Bread was baked in proportion for the consumption
of his domestics and retainers; and in this scene of plenty had Roland Graeme now lived for
several years. It formed a bad introduction to lukewarm greens and spring-water; and probably
his countenance indicated some sense of the difference, for the Abbess observed, "It would
seem, my son, that the tables of the heretic Baron, whom you have so long followed, are more
daintily furnished than those of the suffering daughters of the church; and yet, not upon the
most solemn nights of festival, when the nuns were permitted to eat their portion at mine own
table, did I consider the cates, which were then served up, as half so delicious as these vegetables
and this water, on which I prefer to feed, rather than do aught which may derogate from the
strictness of my vow. It shall never be said that the mistress of this house made it a house
of feasting, when days of darkness and of affliction were hanging over the Holy Church, of
which I am an unworthy member."

"Well hast thou said, my sister," replied Magdalen Graeme; "but now it is not only time to
suffer in the good cause, but to act in it. And since our pilgrim's meal is finished, let us
go apart to prepare for our journey tomorrow, and to advise on the manner in which these children
shall be employed, and what measures we can adopt to supply their thoughtlessness and lack
of discretion."

Notwithstanding his indifferent cheer, the heart of Roland Graeme bounded high at this proposal,
which he doubted not would lead to another tête-â-tête betwixt him and the pretty novice. But
he was mistaken. Catherine, it would seem, had no mind so far to indulge him; for, moved either
by delicacy or caprice, or some of those indescribable shades betwixt the one and the other,
with which women love to tease, and at the same time to captivate, the ruder sex, she reminded
the Abbess that it was necessary she should retire an hour before vespers; and, receiving the
ready and approving nod of her Superior, she arose to withdraw. But before leaving the apartment,
she made obeisance to the matrons, bending herself till her hands touched her knees, and then
made a lesser reverence to Roland, which consisted in a slight bend of the body and gentle
depression of the head. This she performed very demurely; but the party on whom the salutation
was conferred, thought he could discern in her manner an arch and mischievous exultation over
his secret disappointment.--"The devil take the saucy girl," he thought in his heart, though
the presence of the Abbess should have repressed all such profane imaginations,--"she is as
hard-hearted as the laughing hyaena that the story-books tell of--she has a mind that I shall
not forget her this night at least."

The matrons now retired also, giving the page to understand that he was on no account to stir
from the convent, or to show himself at the windows, the Abbess assigning as a reason, the
readiness with which the rude heretics caught at every occasion of scandalizing the religious
orders.

"This is worse than the rigour of Mr. Henry Warden, himself," said the page, when he was left
alone; "for, to do him justice, however strict in requiring the most rigid attention during
the time of his homilies, he left us to the freedom of our own wills afterwards--ay, and would
take a share in our pastimes, too, if he thought them entirely innocent. But these old women
are utterly wrapt up in gloom, mystery and self-denial.--Well, then, if I must neither stir
out of the gate nor look out at window, I will at least see what the inside of the house contains
that may help to pass away one's time--peradventure I may light on that blue-eyed laugher in
some corner or other."

Going, therefore, out of the chamber by the entrance opposite to that through which the two
matrons had departed, (for it may be readily supposed that he had no desire to intrude on their
privacy.) he wandered from one chamber to another, through the deserted edifice, seeking, with
boyish eagerness, some source of interest and amusement. Here he passed through a long gallery,
opening on either hand into the little cells of the nuns, all deserted, and deprived of the
few trifling articles of furniture which the rules of the order admitted.

"The birds are flown," thought the page; "but whether they will find themselves worse off in
the open air than in these damp narrow cages, I leave my Lady Abbess and my venerable relative
to settle betwixt them. I think the wild young lark whom they have left behind them, would
like best to sing under God's free sky."

A winding stair, strait and narrow, as if to remind the nuns of their duties of fast and maceration,
led down to a lower suite of apartments, which occupied the ground story of the house. These
rooms were even more ruinous than those which he had left; for, having encountered the first
fury of the assailants by whom the nunnery had been wasted, the windows had been dashed in,
the doors broken down, and even the partitions betwixt the apartments, in some places, destroyed.
As he thus stalked from desolation to desolation, and began to think of returning from so uninteresting
a research to the chamber which he had left, he was surprised to hear the low of a cow very
close to him. The sound was so unexpected at the time and place, that Roland Graeme started
as if it had been the voice of a lion, and laid his hand on his dagger, while at the same moment
the light and lovely form of Catherine Seyton presented itself at the door of the apartment
from which the sound had issued.

"Good even to you, valiant champion!" said she: "since the days of Guy of Warwick, never was
one more worthy to encounter a dun cow."

"Cow?" said Roland Graeme, "by my faith, I thought it had been the devil that roared so near
me. Who ever heard of a convent containing a cow-house?"

"Cow and calf may come hither now," answered Catherine, "for we have no means to keep out either.
But I advise you, kind sir, to return to the place from whence you came."

"Not till I see your charge, fair sister," answered Roland, and made his way into the apartment,
in spite of the half serious half laughing remonstrances of the girl.

The poor solitary cow, now the only severe recluse within the nunnery, was quartered in a spacious
chamber, which had once been the refectory of the convent. The roof was graced with groined
arches, and the wall with niches, from which the images had been pulled down. These remnants
of architectural ornaments were strangely contrasted with the rude crib constructed for the
cow in one corner of the apartment, and the stack of fodder which was piled beside it for her
food. [Footnote: This, like the cell of Saint Cuthbert, is an imaginary scene, but I took one
or two ideas of the desolation of the interior from a story told me by my father. In his youth--it
may be near eighty years since, as he was born in 1729--he had occasion to visit an old lady
who resided in a Border castle of considerable renown. Only one very limited portion of the
extensive ruins sufficed for the accommodation of the inmates, and my father amused himself
by wandering through the part that was untenanted. In a dining-apartment, having a roof richly
adorned with arches and drops, there was deposited a large stack of hay, to which calves were
helping themselves from opposite sides. As my father was scaling a dark ruinous turnpike staircase,
his greyhound ran up before him, and probably was the means of saving his life, for the animal
fell through a trap-door, or aperture in the stair, thus warning the owner of the danger of
the ascent. As the dog continued howling from a great depth, my father got the old butler,
who alone knew most of the localities about the castle, to unlock a sort of stable, in which
Kill-buck was found safe and sound, the place being filled with the same commodity which littered
the stalls of Augeas, and which had rendered the dog's fall an easy one.]

"By my faith," said the page, "Crombie is more lordly lodged than any one here!"

"You had best remain with her," said Catherine, "and supply by your filial attentions the offspring
she has had the ill luck to lose."

"I will remain, at least, to help you to prepare her night's lair, pretty Catherine," said
Roland, seizing upon a pitch-fork.

"By no means," said Catherine; "for, besides that you know not in the least how to do her that
service, you will bring a chiding my way, and I get enough of that in the regular course of
things."

"What! for accepting my assistance?" said the page,--"for accepting my assistance, who am to
be your confederate in some deep matter of import? That were altogether unreasonable--and,
now I think on it, tell me if you can, what is this mighty emprise to which I am destined?"

"Robbing a bird's nest, I should suppose," said Catherine, "considering the champion whom they
have selected."

"By my faith," said the youth, "and he that has taken a falcon's nest in the Scaurs of Polmoodie,
has done something to brag of, my fair sister.--But that is all over now--a murrain on the
nest, and the eyases and their food, washed or unwashed, for it was all anon of cramming these
worthless kites that I was sent upon my present travels. Save that I have met with you, pretty
sister, I could eat my dagger-hilt for vexation at my own folly. But, as we are to be fellow-travellers--"

"Fellow-labourers! not fellow-travellers!" answered the girl; "for to your comfort be it known,
that the Lady Abbess and I set out earlier than you and your respected relative to-morrow,
and that I partly endure your company at present, because it may be long ere we meet again."

"By Saint Andrew, but it shall not though," answered Roland; "I will not hunt at all unless
we are to hunt in couples."

"I suspect, in that and in other points, we must do as we are bid," replied the young lady.--"But,
hark! I hear my aunt's voice."

The old lady entered in good earnest, and darted a severe glance at her niece, while Roland
had the ready wit to busy himself about the halter of the cow.

"The young gentleman," said Catherine, gravely, "is helping me to tie the cow up faster to
her stake, for I find that last night when she put her head out of window and lowed, she alarmed
the whole village; and--we shall be suspected of sorcery among the heretics, if they do not
discover the cause of the apparition, or lose our cow if they do."

"Relieve yourself of that fear," said the Abbess, somewhat ironically; "the person to whom
she is now sold, comes for the animal presently."

"Good night, then, my poor companion," said Catherine, patting the animal's shoulders; "I hope
thou hast fallen into kind hands, for my happiest hours of late have been spent in tending
thee--I would I had been born to no better task!"

"Now, out upon thee, mean-spirited wench!" said the Abbess; "is that a speech worthy of the
name of Seyton, or of the mouth of a sister of this house, treading the path of election--and
to be spoken before a stranger youth, too?--Go to my oratory, minion--there read your Hours
till I come thither, when I will read you such a lecture as shall make you prize the blessings
which you possess."

Catherine was about to withdraw in silence, casting a half sorrowful half comic glance at Roland
Graeme, which seemed to say--"You see to what your untimely visit has exposed me," when, suddenly
changing her mind, she came forward to the page, and extended her hand as she bid him good
evening. Their palms had pressed each other ere the astonished matron could interfere, and
Catherine had time to say--"Forgive me, mother; it is long since we have seen a face that looked
with kindness on us. Since these disorders have broken up our peaceful retreat, all has been
gloom and malignity. I bid this youth kindly farewell, because he has come hither in kindness,
and because the odds are great, that we may never again meet in this world. I guess better
than he, that the schemes on which you are rushing are too mighty for your management, and
that you are now setting the stone a-rolling, which must surely crush you in its descent. I
bid fare-well," she added, "to my fellow-victim!"

This was spoken with a tone of deep and serious feeling, altogether different from the usual
levity of Catherine's manner, and plainly showed, that beneath the giddiness of extreme youth
and total inexperience, there lurked in her bosom a deeper power of sense and feeling, than
her conduct had hitherto expressed.

The Abbess remained a moment silent after she had left the room. The proposed rebuke died on
her tongue, and she appeared struck with the deep and foreboding, tone in which her niece had
spoken her good-even. She led the way in silence to the apartment which they had formerly occupied,
and where there was prepared a small refection, as the Abbess termed it, consisting of milk
and barley-bread. Magdalen Graeme, summoned to take share in this collation, appeared from
an adjoining apartment, but Catherine was seen no more. There was little said during the hasty
meal, and after it was finished, Roland Graeme was dismissed to the nearest cell, where some
preparations had been made for his repose.

The strange circumstances in which he found himself, had their usual effect in preventing slumber
from hastily descending on him, and he could distinctly hear, by a low but earnest murmuring
in the apartment which he had left, that the matrons continued in deep consultation to a late
hour. As they separated he heard the Abbess distinctly express herself thus: "In a word, my
sister, I venerate your character and the authority with which my Superiors have invested you;
yet it seems to me, that, ere entering on this perilous course, we should consult some of the
Fathers of the Church."

"And how and where are we to find a faithful Bishop or Abbot at whom to ask counsel? The faithful
Eustatius is no more--he is withdrawn from a world of evil, and from the tyranny of heretics.
May Heaven and our Lady assoilzie him of his sins, and abridge the penance of his mortal infirmities!--Where
shall we find another, with whom to take counsel?"

"Heaven will provide for the Church," said the Abbess; "and the faithful fathers who yet are
suffered to remain in the house of Kennaquhair, will proceed to elect an Abbot. They will not
suffer the staff to fall down, or the mitre to be unfilled, for the threats of heresy."

"That will I learn to-morrow," said Magdalen Graeme; "yet who now takes the office of an hour,
save to partake with the spoilers in their work of plunder?--to-morrow will tell us if one
of the thousand saints who are sprung from the House of Saint Mary's continues to look down
on it in its misery.--Farewell, my sister--we meet at Edinburgh."

"Benedicito!" answered the Abbess, and they parted.

"To Kennaquhair and to Edinburgh we bend our way." thought Roland Graeme. "That information
have I purchased by a sleepless hour--it suits well with my purpose. At Kennaquhair I shall
see Father Ambrose;--at Edinburgh I shall find the means of shaping my own course through this
bustling world, without burdening my affectionate relation--at Edinburgh, too, I shall see
again the witching novice, with her blue eyes and her provoking smile."--He fell asleep, and
it was to dream of Catherine Seyton.

Chapter the Thirteenth.

  What, Dagon up again!--I thought we had hurl'd him
  Down on the threshold, never more to rise.
  Bring wedge and axe; and, neighbours, lend your hands
  And rive the idol into winter fagots!
                   ATHELSTANE, OR THE CONVERTED DANE.

Roland Graeme slept long and sound, and the sun was high over the horizon, when the voice of
his companion summoned him to resume their pilgrimage; and when, hastily arranging his dress,
he went to attend her call, the enthusiastic matron stood already at the threshold, prepared
for her journey. There was in all the deportment of this remarkable woman, a promptitude of
execution, and a sternness of perseverance, founded on the fanaticism which she nursed so deeply,
and which seemed to absorb all the ordinary purposes and feelings of mortality. One only human
affection gleamed through her enthusiastic energies, like the broken glimpses of the sun through
the rising clouds of a storm. It was her maternal fondness for her grandson--a fondness carried
almost to the verge of dotage, in circumstances where the Catholic religion was not concerned,
but which gave way instantly when it chanced either to thwart or come in contact with the more
settled purpose of her soul, and the more devoted duty of her life. Her life she would willingly
have laid down to save the earthly object of her affection; but that object itself she was
ready to hazard, and would have been willing to sacrifice, could the restoration of the Church
of Rome have been purchased with his blood. Her discourse by the way, excepting on the few
occasions in which her extreme love of her grandson found opportunity to display itself in
anxiety for his health and accommodation, turned entirely on the duty of raising up the fallen
honours of the Church, and replacing a Catholic sovereign on the throne. There were times at
which she hinted, though very obscurely and distantly, that she herself was foredoomed by Heaven
to perform a part in this important task; and that she had more than mere human warranty for
the zeal with which she engaged in it. But on this subject she expressed herself in such general
language, that it was not easy to decide whether she made any actual pretensions to a direct
and supernatural call, like the celebrated Elizabeth Barton, commonly called the Nun of Kent;
[Footnote: A fanatic nun, called the Holy Maid of Kent, who pretended to the gift of prophecy
and power of miracles. Having denounced the doom of speedy death against Henry VIII. for his
marriage with Anne Boleyn, the prophetess was attainted in Parliament, and executed with her
accomplices. Her imposture was for a time so successful, that even Sir Thomas More was disposed
to be a believer.] or whether she dwelt upon the general duty which was incumbent on all Catholics
of the time, and the pressure of which she felt in an extraordinary degree.

Yet though Magdalen Graeme gave no direct intimation of her pretensions to be considered as
something beyond the ordinary class of mortals, the demeanour of one or two persons amongst
the travellers whom they occasionally met, as they entered the more fertile and populous part
of the valley, seemed to indicate their belief in her superior attributes. It is true, that
two clowns, who drove before them a herd of cattle--one or two village wenches, who seemed
bound for some merry-making--a strolling soldier, in a rusted morion, and a wandering student,
as his threadbare black cloak and his satchel of books proclaimed him--passed our travellers
without observation, or with a look of contempt; and, moreover, that two or three children,
attracted by the appearance of a dress so nearly resembling that of a pilgrim, joined in hooting
and calling "Out upon the mass-monger!" But one or two, who nourished in their bosoms respect
for the downfallen hierarchy--casting first a timorous glance around, to see that no one observed
them--hastily crossed themselves--bent their knee to Sister Magdalen, by which name they saluted
her--kissed her hand, or even the hem of her dalmatique--received with humility the Benedicite
with which she repaid their obeisance; and then starting up, and again looking timidly round
to see that they had been unobserved, hastily resumed their journey. Even while within sight
of persons of the prevailing faith, there were individuals bold enough, by folding their arms
and bending their head, to give distant and silent intimation that they recognized Sister Magdalen,
and honoured alike her person and her purpose.

She failed not to notice to her grandson these marks of honour and respect which from time
to time she received. "You see," she said, "my son, that the enemies have been unable altogether
to suppress the good spirit, or to root out the true seed. Amid heretics and schismatics, spoilers
of the church's lands, and scoffers at saints and sacraments, there is left a remnant."

"It is true, my mother," said Roland Graeme; "but methinks they are of a quality which can
help us but little. See you not all those who wear steel at their side, and bear marks of better
quality, ruffle past us as they would past the meanest beggars? for those who give us any marks
of sympathy, are the poorest of the poor, and most outcast of the needy, who have neither bread
to share with us, nor swords to defend us, nor skill to use them if they had. That poor wretch
that last kneeled to you with such deep devotion, and who seemed emaciated by the touch of
some wasting disease within, and the grasp of poverty without--that pale, shivering, miserable
caitiff, how can he aid the great schemes you meditate?"

"Much, my son," said the Matron, with more mildness than the page perhaps expected. "When that
pious son of the church returns from the shrine of Saint Ringan, whither he now travels by
my counsel, and by the aid of good Catholics,--when he returns, healed, of his wasting malady,
high in health, and strong in limb, will not the glory of his faithfulness, and its miraculous
reward, speak louder in the ears of this besotted people of Scotland, than the din which is
weekly made in a thousand heretical pulpits?"

"Ay, but, mother, I fear the Saint's hand is out. It is long since we have heard of a miracle
performed at St. Ringan's."

The matron made a dead pause, and, with a voice tremulous with emotion, asked, "Art thou so
unhappy as to doubt the power of the blessed Saint?"

"Nay, mother," the youth hastened to reply, "I believe as the Holy Church commands, and doubt
not Saint Ringan's power of healing; but, be it said with reverence, he hath not of late showed
the inclination."

"And has this land deserved it?" said the Catholic matron, advancing hastily while she spoke,
until she attained the summit of a rising ground, over which the path led, and then standing
again still. "Here," she said, "stood the Cross, the limits of the Halidome of Saint Mary's--here--on
this eminence--from which the eye of the holy pilgrim might first catch a view of that ancient
monastery, the light of the land, the abode of Saints, and the grave of monarchs--Where is
now that emblem of our faith? It lies on the earth--a shapeless block, from which the broken
fragments have been carried off, for the meanest uses, till now no semblance of its original
form remains. Look towards the east, my son, where the sun was wont to glitter on stately spires--from
which crosses and bells have now been hurled, as if the land had been invaded once more by
barbarous heathens.--Look at yonder battlements, of which we can, even at this distance, descry
the partial demolition; and ask if this land can expect from the blessed saints, whose shrines
and whose images have been profaned, any other miracles but those of vengeance? How long,"
she exclaimed, looking upward, "How long shall it be delayed?" She paused, and then resumed
with enthusiastic rapidity, "Yes, my son, all on earth is but for a period--joy and grief,
triumph and desolation, succeed each other like cloud and sunshine;--the vineyard shall not
be forever trodden down, the gaps shall be amended, and the fruitful branches once more dressed
and trimmed. Even this day--ay, even this hour, I trust to hear news of importance. Dally not--let
us on--time is brief, and judgment is certain."

She resumed the path which led to the Abbey--a path which, in ancient times, was carefully
marked out by posts and rails, to assist the pilgrim in his journey--these were now torn up
and destroyed. A half-hour's walk placed them in front of the once splendid Monastery, which,
although the church was as yet entire, had not escaped the fury of the times. The long range
of cells and of apartments for the use of the brethren, which occupied two sides of the great
square, were almost entirely ruinous, the interior having been consumed by fire, which only
the massive architecture of the outward walls had enabled them to resist. The Abbot's house,
which formed the third side of the square, was, though injured, still inhabited, and afforded
refuge to the few brethren, who yet, rather by connivance than by actual authority,--were permitted
to remain at Kennaquhair. Their stately offices--their pleasant gardens--the magnificent cloisters
constructed for their recreation, were all dilapidated and ruinous; and some of the building
materials had apparently been put into requisition by persons in the village and in the vicinity,
who, formerly vassals of the Monastery, had not hesitated to appropriate to themselves a part
of the spoils. Roland saw fragments of Gothic pillars richly carved, occupying the place of
door-posts to the meanest huts; and here and there a mutilated statue, inverted or laid on
its side, made the door-post, or threshold, of a wretched cow-house. The church itself was
less injured than the other buildings of the Monastery. But the images which had been placed
in the numerous niches of its columns and buttresses, having all fallen under the charge of
idolatry, to which the superstitious devotion of the Papists had justly exposed them, had been
broken and thrown down, without much regard to the preservation of the rich and airy canopies
and pedestals on which they were placed; nor, if the devastation had stopped short at this
point, could we have considered the preservation of these monuments of antiquity as an object
to be put in the balance with the introduction of the reformed worship.

Our pilgrims saw the demolition of these sacred and venerable representations of saints and
angels--for as sacred and venerable they had been taught to consider them--with very different
feelings. The antiquary may be permitted to regret the necessity of the action, but to Magdalen
Graeme it seemed a deed of impiety, deserving the instant vengeance of heaven,--a sentiment
in which her relative joined for the moment as cordially as herself. Neither, however, gave
vent to their feelings in words, and uplifted hands and eyes formed their only mode of expressing
them. The page was about to approach the great eastern gate of the church, but was prevented
by his guide. "That gate," she said, "has long been blockaded, that the heretical rabble may
not know there still exist among the brethren of Saint Mary's men who dare worship where their
predecessors prayed while alive, and were interred when dead--follow me this way, my son."

Roland Graeme followed accordingly; and Magdalen, casting a hasty glance to see whether they
were observed, (for she had learned caution from the danger of the times,) commanded her grandson
to knock at a little wicket which she pointed out to him. "But knock gently," she added, with
a motion expressive of caution. After a little space, during which no answer was returned,
she signed to Roland to repeat his summons for admission; and the door at length partially
opening, discovered a glimpse of the thin and timid porter, by whom the duty was performed,
skulking from the observation of those who stood without; but endeavouring at the same time
to gain a sight of them without being himself seen. How different from the proud consciousness
of dignity with which the porter of ancient days offered his important brow, and his goodly
person, to the pilgrims who repaired to Kennaquhair! His solemn "Intrate, mei filii," was exchanged
for a tremulous "You cannot enter now--the brethren are in their chambers." But, when Magdalen
Graeme asked, in an under tone of voice, "Hast thou forgotten me, my brother?" he changed his
apologetic refusal to "Enter, my honoured sister, enter speedily, for evil eyes are upon us"

They entered accordingly, and having waited until the porter had, with jealous haste, barred
and bolted the wicket, were conducted by him through several dark and winding passages. As
they walked slowly on, he spoke to the matron in a subdued voice, as if he feared to trust
the very walls with the avowal which he communicated.

"Our Fathers are assembled in the Chapter-house, worthy sister--yes, in the Chapter-house--for
the election of an Abbott.--Ah, Benedicite! there must be no ringing of bells--no high mass--no
opening of the great gates now, that the people might see and venerate their spiritual Father!
Our Fathers must hide themselves rather like robbers who choose a leader, than godly priests
who elect a mitred Abbot."

"Regard not that, my brother," answered Magdalen Graeme; "the first successors of Saint Peter
himself were elected, not in sunshine, but in tempests--not in the halls of the Vatican, but
in the subterranean vaults and dungeons of heathen Rome--they were not gratulated with shouts
and salvos of cannon-shot and of musketry, and the display of artificial fire--no, my brother--but
by the hoarse summons of Lictors and Praetors, who came to drag the Fathers of the Church to
martyrdom. From such adversity was the Church once raised, and by such will it now be purified.--And
mark me, brother! not in the proudest days of the mitred Abbey, was a Superior ever chosen,
whom his office shall so much honour, as he shall be honoured, who now takes it upon him in
these days of tribulation. On whom, my brother, will the choice fall?"

"On whom can it fall--or, alas! who would dare to reply to the call, save the worthy pupil
of the Sainted Eustatius--the good and valiant Father Ambrose?"

"I know it," said Magdalen; "my heart told me long ere your lips had uttered his name. Stand
forth, courageous champion, and man the fatal breach!--Rise, bold and experienced pilot, and
seize the helm while the tempest rages!--Turn back the battle, brave raiser of the fallen standard!--Wield
crook and slang, noble shepherd of a scattered flock!"

"I pray you, hush, my sister!" said the porter, opening a door which led into the great church,
"the brethren will be presently here to celebrate their election with a solemn mass--I must
marshal them the way to the high altar--all the offices of this venerable house have now devolved
on one poor decrepit old man."

He left the church, and Magdalen and Roland remained alone in that great vaulted space, whose
style of rich, yet chaste architecture, referred its origin to the early part of the fourteenth
century, the best period of Gothic building. But the niches were stripped of their images in
the inside as well as the outside of the church; and in the pell-mell havoc, the tombs of warriors
and of princes had been included in the demolition of the idolatrous shrines. Lances and swords
of antique size, which had hung over the tombs of mighty warriors of former days, lay now strewed
among relics, with which the devotion of pilgrims had graced those of their peculiar saints;
and the fragments of the knights and dames, which had once lain recumbent, or kneeled in an
attitude of devotion, where their mortal relics were reposed, were mingled with those of the
saints and angels of the Gothic chisel, which the hand of violence had sent headlong from their
stations.

The most fatal symptom of the whole appeared to be, that, though this violence had now been
committed for many months, the Fathers had lost so totally all heart and resolution, that they
had not adventured even upon clearing away the rubbish, or restoring the church to some decent
degree of order. This might have been done without much labour. But terror had overpowered
the scanty remains of a body once so powerful, and, sensible they were only suffered to remain
in this ancient seat by connivance and from compassion, they did not venture upon taking any
step which might be construed into an assertion of their ancient rights, contenting themselves
with the secret and obscure exercise of their religious ceremonial, in as unostentatious a
manner as was possible.

Two or three of the more aged brethren had sunk under the pressure of the times, and the ruins
had been partly cleared away to permit their interment. One stone had been laid over Father
Nicholas, which recorded of him in special, that he had taken the vows during the incumbency
of Abbot Ingelram, the period to which his memory so frequently recurred. Another flag-stone,
yet more recently deposited, covered the body of Philip the Sacristan, eminent for his aquatic
excursion with the phantom of Avenel, and a third, the most recent of all, bore the outline
of a mitre, and the words Hic jacet Eustatius Abbas; for no one dared to add a word of commendation
in favour of his learning, and strenuous zeal for the Roman Catholic faith.

Magdalen Graeme looked at and perused the brief records of these monuments successively, and
paused over that of Father Eustace. "In a good hour for thyself," she said, "but oh! in an
evil hour for the Church, wert thou called from us. Let thy spirit be with us, holy man--encourage
thy successor to tread in thy footsteps--give him thy bold and inventive capacity, thy zeal
and thy discretion--even thy piety exceeds not his." As she spoke, a side door, which closed
a passage from the Abbot's house into the church, was thrown open, that the Fathers might enter
the choir, and conduct to the high altar the Superior whom they had elected. The period during
which the Abbacy remained vacant, was a state of mourning, or, as their emblematical phrase
expressed it, of widowhood; a melancholy term, which was changed into rejoicing and triumph
when a new Superior was chosen.  In the midst of rubbish and desolation, seven or eight old
men, bent and shaken as much by grief and fear as by age, shrouded hastily in the proscribed
dress of their order, wandered like a procession of spectres, from the door which had been
thrown open, up through the encumbered passage, to the high altar, there to instal their elected
Superior a chief of ruins. It was like a band of bewildered travellers choosing a chief in
the wilderness of Arabia; or a shipwrecked crew electing a captain upon the barren island on
which fate has thrown them.

They who, in peaceful times, are most ambitious of authority among others, shrink from the
competition at such eventful periods, when neither ease nor parade attend the possession of
it, and when it gives only a painful pre-eminence both in danger and in labour, and exposes
the ill-fated chieftain to the murmurs of his discontented associates, as well as to the first
assault of the common enemy. But he on whom the office of the Abbot of Saint Mary's was now
conferred, had a mind fitted for the situation to which he was called. Bold and enthusiastic,
yet generous and forgiving--wise and skilful, yet zealous and prompt--he wanted but a better
cause than the support of a decaying superstition, to have raised him to the rank of a truly
great man. But as the end crowns the work, it also forms the rule by which it must be ultimately
judged; and those who, with sincerity and generosity, fight and fall in an evil cause, posterity
can only compassionate as victims of a generous but fatal error. Amongst these, we must rank
Ambrosius, the last Abbot of Kennaqubair, whose designs must be condemned, as their success
would have riveted on Scotland the chains of antiquated superstition and spiritual tyranny;
but whose talents commanded respect, and whose virtues, even from the enemies of his faith,
extorted esteem.

The bearing of the new Abbot served of itself to dignify a ceremonial which was deprived of
all other attributes of grandeur. Conscious of the peril in which they stood, and recalling,
doubtless, the better days they had seen, there hung over his brethren an appearance of mingled
terror, and grief, and shame, which induced them to hurry over the office in which they were
engaged, as something at once degrading and dangerous.

But not so Father Ambrose. His features, indeed, expressed a deep melancholy, as he walked
up the centre aisle, amid the ruin of things which he considered as holy, but his brow was
undejected, and his step firm and solemn. He seemed to think that the dominion which he was
about to receive, depended in no sort upon the external circumstances under which it was conferred;
and if a mind so firm was accessible to sorrow or fear, it was not on his own account, but
on that of the Church to which he had devoted himself. With hasty and maimed rites, the few
remaining brethren stepped forward alternately to give their new Abbot the kiss of peace, in
token of fraternal affection and spiritual homage. Mass was then hastily performed, but in
such precipitation as if it had been hurried over rather to satisfy the scruples of a few youths,
who were impatient to set out on a hunting party, than as if it made the most solemn part of
a solemn ordination. The officiating priest faltered as he spoke the service, and often looked
around, as if he expected to be interrupted in the midst of his office; and the brethren listened
to that which, short as it was, they wished yet more abridged.[Footnote: In Catholic countries,
in order to reconcile the pleasures of the great with the observances of religion, it was common,
when a party was bent for the chase, to celebrate mass, abridged and maimed of its rites, called
a hunting-mass, the brevity of which was designed to correspond with the impatience of the
audience.]

These symptoms of alarm increased as the ceremony proceeded, and, as it seemed, were not caused
by mere apprehension alone; for, amid the pauses of the hymn, there were heard without sounds
of a very different sort, beginning faintly and at a distance, but at length approaching close
to the exterior of the church, and stunning with dissonant clamour those engaged in the service.
The winding of horns, blown with no regard to harmony or concert; the jangling of bells, the
thumping of drums, the squeaking of bagpipes, and the clash of cymbals--the shouts of a multitude,
now as in laughter, now as in anger--the shrill tones of female voices, and of those of children,
mingling with the deeper clamour of men, formed a Babel of sounds, which first drowned, and
then awed into utter silence, the official hymns of the Convent. The cause and result of this
extraordinary interruption will be explained in the next chapter.

Chapter the Fourteenth.

  Not the wild billow, when it breaks its barrier--
  Not the wild wind, escaping from its cavern--
  Not the wild fiend, that mingles both together,
  And pours their rage upon the ripening harvest,
  Can match the wild freaks of this mirthful meeting--
  Comic, yet fearful--droll, and yet destructive.
                              THE CONSPIRACY.

The monks ceased their song, which, like that of the choristers in the legend of the Witch
of Berkley, died away in a quaver of consternation; and, like a flock of chickens disturbed
by the presence of the kite, they at first made a movement to disperse and fly in different
directions, and then, with despair, rather than hope, huddled themselves around their new Abbot;
who, retaining the lofty and undismayed look which had dignified him through the whole ceremony,
stood on the higher step of the altar, as if desirous to be the most conspicuous mark on which
danger might discharge itself, and to save his companions by his self-devotion, since he could
afford them no other protection.

Involuntarily, as it were, Magdalen Graeme and the page stepped from the station which hitherto
they had occupied unnoticed, and approached to the altar, as desirous of sharing the fate which
approached the monks, whatever that might be. Both bowed reverently low to the Abbot; and while
Magdalen seemed about to speak, the youth, looking towards the main entrance, at which the
noise now roared most loudly, and which was at the same time assailed with much knocking, laid
his hand upon his dagger.

The Abbot motioned to both to forbear: "Peace, my sister," he said, in a low tone, but which,
being in a different key from the tumultuary sounds without, could be distinctly heard, even
amidst the tumult;--"Peace," he said, "my sister; let the new Superior of Saint Mary's himself
receive and reply to the grateful acclamations of the vassals, who come to celebrate his installation.--And
thou, my son, forbear, I charge thee, to touch thy earthly weapon;--if it is the pleasure of
our protectress, that her shrine be this day desecrated by deeds of violence, and polluted
by blood-shedding, let it not, I charge thee, happen through the deed of a Catholic son of
the church."

The noise and knocking at the outer gate became now every moment louder; and voices were heard
impatiently demanding admittance. The Abbot, with dignity, and with a step which even the emergency
of danger rendered neither faltering nor precipitate, moved towards the portal, and demanded
to know, in a tone of authority, who it was that disturbed their worship, and what they desired?

There was a moment's silence, and then a loud laugh from without. At length a voice replied,
"We desire entrance into the church; and when the door is opened you will soon see who we are."

"By whose authority do you require entrance?" said the Father.

"By authority of the right reverend Lord Abbot of Unreason,"

[Footnote: We learn from no less authority than that of Napoleon Bonaparte, that there is but
a single step between the sublime and ridiculous; and it is a transition from one extreme to
another; so very easy, that the vulgar of every degree are peculiarly captivated with it. Thus
the inclination to laugh becomes uncontrollable, when the solemnity and gravity of time, place,
and circumstances, render it peculiarly improper. Some species of general license, like that
which inspired the ancient Saturnalia, or the modern Carnival, has been commonly indulged to
the people at all times and in almost all countries. The indifference of the clergy, even when
their power was greatest, to the indecent exhibitions which they always tolerated, and sometimes
encouraged, forms a strong contrast to the sensitiveness with which they regarded any serious
attempt, by preaching or writing, to impeach any of the doctrines of the church. It could only
be compared to the singular apathy with which they endured, and often admired the gross novels
which Chaucer, Dunbar, Boccacio, Bandello, and others, composed upon the bad morals of the
clergy. It seems as if the churchmen in both instances had endeavoured to compromise with the
laity, and allowed them occasionally to gratify their coarse humour by indecent satire, provided
they would abstain from any grave question concerning the foundation of the doctrines on which
was erected such an immense fabric of ecclesiastical power.

But the sports thus licensed assumed a very different appearance, so soon as the Protestant
doctrines began to prevail; and the license which their forefathers had exercised in mere gaiety
of heart, and without the least intention of dishonouring religion by their frolics, were now
persevered in by the common people as a mode of testifying their utter disregard for the Roman
priesthood and its ceremonies.

I may observe, for example, the case of an apparitor sent to Borthwick from the Primate of
Saint Andrews, to cite the lord of that castle, who was opposed by an Abbot of Unreason, at
whose command the officer of the spiritual court was appointed to be ducked in a mill-dam,
and obliged to eat up his parchment citation.

The reader may be amused with the following whimsical details of this incident, which took
place in the castle of Borthwick, in the year 1517. It appears, that in consequence of a process
betwixt Master George Hay de Minzeane and the Lord Borthwick, letters of excommunication had
passed against the latter, on account of the contumacy of certain witnesses. William Langlands,
an apparitor or macer (bacularius) of the See of St Andrews, presented these letters to the
curate of the church of Borthwick, requiring him to publish the same at the service of high
mass. It seems that the inhabitants of the castle were at this time engaged in the favourite
sport of enacting the Abbot of Unreason, a species of high jinks, in which a mimic prelate
was elected, who, like the Lord of Misrule in England, turned all sort of lawful authority,
and particularly the church ritual, into ridicule. This frolicsome person with his retinue,
notwithstanding of the apparitor's character, entered the church, seized upon the primate's
officer without hesitation, and, dragging him to the mill-dam on the south side of the castle,
compelled him to leap into the water. Not contented with this partial immersion, the Abbot
of Unreason pronounced, that Mr. William Langlands was not yet sufficiently bathed, and therefore
caused his assistants to lay him on his back in the stream, and duck him in the most satisfactory
and perfect manner. The unfortunate apparitor was then conducted back to the church, where,
for his refreshment after his bath, the letters of excommunication were torn to pieces, and
steeped in a bowl of wine; the mock abbot being probably of opinion that a tough parchment
was but dry eating, Langlands was compelled to eat the letters, and swallow the wine, and dismissed
by the Abbot of Unreason, with the comfortable assurance, that if any more such letters should
arrive during the continuance of his office, "they should a' gang the same gate," i. e. go
the same road.

A similar scene occurs betwixt a sumner of the Bishop of Rochester, and Harpool, the servant
of Lord Cobham, in the old play of Sir John Oldcastle, when the former compels the church-officer
to eat his citation. The dialogue, which may be found in the note, contains most of the jests
which may be supposed, appropriate to such an extraordinary occasion:

Harpool Marry, sir, is, this process parchment?

Sumner. Yes, marry is it.

Harpool. And this seal wax?

Sumner. It is so.

Harpool. If this be parchment, and this be wax, eat you this parchment and wax, or I will make
parchment of your skin, and beat your brains into wax. Sirrah Sumner, despatch--devour, sirrah,
devour.

Sumner. I am my Lord of Rochester's sumner; I came to do my office, and thou shall answer it.

Harpool. Sirrah, no railing, but, betake thyself to thy teeth. Thou shalt, eat no worse than
thou bringest with thee. Thou bringest it for my lord; and wilt thou bring my lord worse than
thou wilt eat thyself?

Sumner. Sir. I brought it not my lord to eat.

Harpool. O, do you Sir me now? All's one for that; I'll make you eat it for bringing it.

Sumner. I cannot eat it.

Harpool. Can you not? 'Sblood, I'll beat you till you have a stomach! (Beats him.)

Sumner. Oh, hold, hold, good Mr. Servingman; I will eat it.

Harpool. Be champing, be chewing, sir, or I will chew you, you rogue. Tough wax is the purest
of the honey.

Sumner. The purest of the honey?--O Lord, sir, oh! oh!

Harpool. Feed, feed; 'tis wholesome, rogue, wholesome. Cannot you, like an honest sumner, walk
with the devil your brother, to fetch in your bailiff's rents, but you must come to a nobleman's
house with process! If the seal were broad as the lead which covers Rochester Church, thou
shouldst eat it.

Sumner. Oh, I am almost choked--I am almost choked!

Harpool. Who's within there? Will you shame my lord? Is there no beer in the house? Butler, I say.

    Enter BUTLER.

Butler. Here, here.

Harpool. Give him beer. Tough old sheep skin's but dry meat.

    First Part of Sir John Oldcastle, Act II. Scene I.]

replied the voice from without; and, from the laugh--which followed, it seemed as if there
was something highly ludicrous couched under this reply.

"I know not, and seek not to know, your meaning," replied the Abbot, "since it is probably
a rude one. But begone, in the name of God, and leave his servants in peace. I speak this,
as having lawful authority to command here."

"Open the door," said another rude voice, "and we will try titles with you, Sir Monk, and show
you a superior we must all obey."

"Break open the doors if he dallies any longer," said a third, "and down with the carrion monks
who would bar us of our privilege!" A general shout followed. "Ay, ay, our privilege! our privilege!
down with the doors, and with the lurdane monks, if they make opposition!"

The knocking was now exchanged for blows with great, hammers, to which the doors, strong as
they were, must soon have given way. But the Abbot, who saw resistance would be in vain, and
who did not wish to incense the assailants by an attempt at offering it, besought silence earnestly,
and with difficulty obtained a hearing. "My children," said he, "I will save you from committing
a great sin. The porter will presently undo the gate--he is gone to fetch the keys--meantime
I pray you to consider with yourselves, if you are in a state of mind to cross the holy threshold."

"Tillyvally for your papistry!" was answered from without; "we are in the mood of the monks
when they are merriest, and that is when they sup beef-brewis for lanten-kail. So, if your
porter hath not the gout, let him come speedily, or we heave away readily.--Said I well, comrades?"

"Bravely said, and it shall be as bravely done," said the multitude; and had not the keys arrived
at that moment, and the porter in hasty terror performed his office, throwing open the great
door, the populace would have saved him the trouble. The instant he had done so, the affrighted
janitor fled, like one who has drawn the bolts of a flood-gate, and expects to be overwhelmed
by the rushing inundation. The monks, with one consent, had withdrawn themselves behind the
Abbot, who alone kept his station, about three yards from the entrance, showing no signs of
fear or perturbation. His brethren--partly encouraged by his devotion, partly ashamed to desert
him, and partly animated by a sense of duty.--remained huddled close together, at the back
of their Superior. There was a loud laugh and huzza when the doors were opened; but, contrary
to what might have been expected, no crowd of enraged assailants rushed into the church. On
the contrary, there was a cry of "A halt!-a halt--to order, my masters! and let the two reverend
fathers greet each other, as beseems them."

The appearance of the crowd who were thus called to order, was grotesque in the extreme. It
was composed of men, women, and children, ludicrously disguised in various habits, and presenting
groups equally diversified and grotesque. Here one fellow with a horse's head painted before
him, and a tail behind, and the whole covered with a long foot-cloth, which was supposed to
hide the body of the animal, ambled, caracoled, pranced, and plunged, as he performed the celebrated
part of the hobby-horse,

[Footnote: This exhibition, the play-mare of Scotland, stood high among holyday gambols. It
must be carefully separated from the wooden chargers which furnish out our nurseries. It gives
rise to Hamlet's ejaculation,--

    But oh, but oh, the hobby-horse is forgot!

There is a very comic scene in Beaumont and Fletcher's play of "Woman Pleased," where Hope-on-high
Bombye, a puritan cobbler, refuses to dance with the hobby-horse. There was much difficulty
and great variety in the motions which the hobby-horse was expected to exhibit.

The learned Mr. Douce, who has contributed so much to the illustration of our theatrical antiquities,
has given us a full account of this pageant, and the burlesque horsemanship which it practised.

"The hobby-horse," says Mr. Douce, "was represented by a man equipped with as much pasteboard
as was sufficient to form the head and hinder parts of a horse, the quadrupedal defects being
concealed by a long mantle or footcloth that nearly touched the ground. The former, on this
occasion, exerted all his skill in burlesque horsemanship. In Sympson's play of the Law-breakers,
1636, a miller personates the hobby-horse, and being angry that the Mayor of the city is put
in competition with him, exclaims, 'Let the mayor play the hobby-horse among his brethren,
an he will; I hope our town-lads cannot want a hobby-horse. Have I practised my reins, my careers,
my prankers, my ambles, my false trots, my smooth ambles, and Canterbury paces, and shall master
mayor put me beside the hobby-horse? Have I borrowed the fore-horse bells, his plumes, his
braveries; nay, had his mane new shorn and frizzled, and shall the mayor put me beside the
hobby-horse?"

--Douce's Illustrations, vol. II. p. 468]

so often alluded to in our ancient drama; and which still flourishes on the stage in the battle
that concludes Bayes's tragedy. To rival the address and agility displayed by this character,
another personage advanced in the more formidable character of a huge dragon, with gilded wings,
open jaws, and a scarlet tongue, cloven at the end, which made various efforts to overtake
and devour a lad, dressed as the lovely Sabaea, daughter of the King of Egypt, who fled before
him; while a martial Saint George, grotesquely armed with a goblet for a helmet, and a spit
for a lance, ever and anon interfered, and compelled the monster to relinquish his prey. A
bear, a wolf, and one or two other wild animals, played their parts with the discretion of
Snug the joiner; for the decided preference which they gave to the use of their hind legs,
was sufficient, without any formal annunciation, to assure the most timorous spectators that
they had to do with habitual bipeds. There was a group of outlaws with Robin Hood and Little
John at their head

[Footnote: The representation of Robin Hood was the darling Maygame both in England and Scotland,
and doubtless the favourite personification was often revived, when the Abbot of Unreason,
or other pretences of frolic, gave an unusual decree of license.

The Protestant clergy, who had formerly reaped advantage from the opportunities which these
sports afforded them of directing their own satire and the ridicule of the lower orders against
the Catholic church, began to find that, when these purposes were served, their favourite pastimes
deprived them of the wish to attend divine worship, and disturbed the frame of mind in which
it can be attended to advantage. The celebrated Bishop Latimer gives a very naive account of
the manner in which, bishop as he was, he found himself compelled to give place to Robin Hood
and his followers.

"I came once myselfe riding on a journey homeward from London, and I sent word over night into
the towne that I would preach there in the morning, because it was holiday, and me thought
it was a holidayes worke. The church stood in my way, and I took my horse and my company, and
went thither, (I thought I should have found a great company in the church,) and when I came
there the church doore was fast locked. I tarryed there halfe an houre and more. At last the
key was found, and one of the parish comes to me and said,--'Sir, this is a busie day with
us, we cannot hear you; it is Robin Hood's day. The parish are gone abroad to gather for Robin
Hood. I pray you let them not.' I was faine there to give place to Robin Hood. I thought my
rochet should have been regarded, though I were not: but it would not serve, it was faine to
give place to Robin Hood's men. It is no laughing matter, my friends, it is a weeping matter,
a heavie matter, a heavie matter. Under the pretence for gathering for Robin Hood, a traytour,
and a theif, to put out a preacher; to have his office lesse esteemed; to preferre Robin Hood
before the ministration of God's word; and all this hath come of unpreaching prelates. This
realme hath been ill provided for, that it hath had such corrupt judgments in it, to prefer
Robin Hood to God's word."--Bishop Latimer's sixth Sermon before King Edward.

While the English Protestants thus preferred the outlaw's pageant to the preaching of their
excellent Bishop, the Scottish calvinistic clergy, with the celebrated John Knox at their head,
and backed by the authority of the magistrates of Edinburgh, who had of late been chosen exclusively
from this party, found it impossible to control the rage of the populace, when they attempted
to deprive them of the privilege of presenting their pageant of Robin Hood.

[Note on old Scottish spelling: leading y = modern 'th'; leading v = modern 'u']

(561) "Vpon the xxi day of Junij. Archibalde Dowglas of Kilspindie, Provest of Edr., David
Symmer and Adame Fullartoun, baillies of the samyne, causit ane cordinare servant, callit James
Gillion takin of befoir, for playing in Edr. with Robene Hude, to wnderly the law, and put
him to the knawlege of ane assyize qlk yaij haid electit of yair favoraris, quha with schort
deliberatioun condemnit him to be hangit for ye said cryme. And the deaconis of ye craftismen
fearing vproare, maid great solistatuis at ye handis of ye said provost and baillies, and als
requirit John Knox, minister, for eschewing of tumult, to superceid ye execution of him, vnto
ye tyme yai suld adverteis my Lord Duke yairof. And yan, if it wes his mynd and will yat he
should be disponit vpoun, ye said deaconis and craftismen sould convey him yaire; quha answerit,
yat yai culd na way stope ye executioun of justice. Quhan ye time of ye said pouer mans hanging
approchit, and yat ye hangman wes cum to ye jibbat with ye ledder, vpoune ye qlk ye said cordinare
should have bene hangit, ane certaine and remanent craftischilder, quha wes put to ye horne
with ye said Gillione, ffor ye said Robene Huide's playes, and vyris yair assistaris and favoraris,
past to wappinis, and yai brak down ye said jibbat, and yan chacit ye said provest, baillies,
and Alexr. Guthrie, in ye said Alexander's writing buith, and held yame yairin; and yairefter
past to ye tolbuyt, and becaus the samyne was steiket, and onnawayes culd get the keyes thairof,
thai brak the said tolbuith dore with foure harberis, per force, (the said provest and baillies
luckand thairon.) and not onlie put thar the said Gillione to fredome and libertie, and brocht
him furth of the said tolbuit, bot alsua the remanent presonaris being thairintill; and this
done, the said craftismen's servands, with the said condempnit cordonar, past doun to the Netherbow,
to have past furth thairat; bot becaus the samyne on thair coming thairto wes closet, thai
past vp agane the Hie streit of the said bourghe to the Castellhill, and in this menetymne
the saidis provest and baillies, and thair assistaris being in the writing buith of the said
Alexr. Guthrie, past and enterit in the said tolbuyt, and in the said servandes passage vp
the Hie streit, then schote furth thairof at thame ane dog, and hurt ane servand of the said
childer. This being done, thair wes nathing vthir but the one partie schuteand out and castand
stanes furth of the said tolbuyt, and the vther pairtie schuteand hagbuttis in the same agane.
Aund sua the craftismen's servandis, aboue written, held and inclosit the said provest and
baillies continewallie in the said tolbuyth, frae three houris efternone, quhill aught houris
at even, and na man of the said town prensit to relieve their said provest and baillies. And
than thai send to the maisters of the Castell, to caus tham if thai mycht stay the said servandis,
quha maid ane maner to do the same, bot thai could not bring the same to ane finall end, ffor
the said servands wold on noways stay fra, quhill thai had revengit the hurting of ane of them;
and thairefter the constable of the castell come down thairfra, and he with the said maisters
treatet betwix the said pties in this maner:--That the said provost and baillies sall remit
to the said craftischilder, all actioun, cryme, and offens that thai had committit aganes thame
in any tyme bygane; and band and oblast thame never to pursew them thairfor; and als commandit
thair maisters to resaue them agane in thair services, as thai did befoir. And this being proclainit
at the mercat cross, thai scalit, and the said provest and bailies come furth of the same tolbouyth."
&c. &c. &c.

John Knox, who writes at large upon this tumult, informs us it was inflamed by the deacons
of craftes, who, resenting; the superiority assumed over them by the magistrates, would yield
no assistance to put down the tumult. "They will be magistrates alone," said the recusant deacons,
"e'en let them rule the populace alone;" and accordingly they passed quietly to take their
four-hours penny, and left the magistrates to help themselves as they could. Many persons were
excommunicated for this outrage, and not admitted to church ordinances till they had made satisfaction.]

--the best representation exhibited at the time; and no great wonder, since most of the actors
were, by profession, the banished men and thieves whom they presented. Other masqueraders there
were, of a less marked description. Men were disguised as women, and women as men--children
wore the dress of aged people, and tottered with crutch-sticks in their hands, furred gowns
on their little backs, and caps on their round heads--while grandsires assumed the infantine
tone as well as the dress of children. Besides these, many had their faces painted, and wore
their shirts over the rest of their dress; while coloured pasteboard and ribbons furnished
out decorations for others. Those who wanted all these properties, blacked their faces, and
turned their jackets inside out; and thus the transmutation of the whole assembly into a set
of mad grotesque mummers, was at once completed.

The pause which the masqueraders made, waiting apparently for some person of the highest authority
amongst them, gave those within the Abbey Church full time to observe all these absurdities.
They were at no loss to comprehend their purpose and meaning.

Few readers can be ignorant, that at an early period, and during the plenitude of her power,
the Church of Rome not only connived at, but even encouraged, such Saturnalian licenses as
the inhabitants of Kennaquhair and the neighbourhood had now in hand, and that the vulgar,
on such occasions, were not only permitted but encouraged by a number of gambols, sometimes
puerile and ludicrous, sometimes immoral and profane, to indemnify themselves for the privations
and penances imposed on them at other seasons. But, of all other topics for burlesque and ridicule,
the rites and ceremonial of the church itself were most frequently resorted to; and, strange
to say, with the approbation of the clergy themselves.

While the hierarchy flourished in full glory, they do not appear to have dreaded the consequences
of suffering the people to become so irreverently familiar with things sacred; they then imagined
the laity to be much in the condition of the labourer's horse, which does not submit to the
bridle and the whip with greater reluctance, because, at rare intervals, he is allowed to frolic
at large in his pasture, and fling out his heels in clumsy gambols at the master who usually
drives him. But, when times changed--when doubt of the Roman Catholic doctrine, and hatred
of their priesthood, had possessed the reformed party, the clergy discovered, too late, that
no small inconvenience arose from the established practice of games and merry-makings, in which
they themselves, and all they held most sacred, were made the subject of ridicule. It then
became obvious to duller politicians than the Romish churchmen, that the same actions have
a very different tendency when done in the spirit of sarcastic insolence and hatred, than when
acted merely in exuberance of rude and uncontrollable spirits. They, therefore, though of the
latest, endeavoured, where they had any remaining influence, to discourage the renewal of these
indecorous festivities. In this particular, the Catholic clergy were joined by most of the
reformed preachers, who were more shocked at the profanity and immorality of many of these
exhibitions, than disposed to profit by the ridiculous light in which they placed the Church
of Rome and her observances. But it was long ere these scandalous and immoral sports could
be abrogated;--the rude multitude continued attached to their favourite pastimes, and, both
in England and Scotland, the mitre of the Catholic--the rochet of the reformed bishop--and
the cloak and band of the Calvinistic divine--were, in turn, compelled to give place to those
jocular personages, the Pope of Fools, the Boy-Bishop, and the Abbot of Unreason. [Footnote:
From the interesting novel entitled Anastasius, it seems the same burlesque ceremonies were
practised in the Greek Church. ]

It was the latter personage who now, in full costume, made his approach to the great door of
the church of St. Mary's, accoutred in such a manner as to form a caricature, or practical
parody, on the costume and attendants of the real Superior, whom he came to beard on the very
day of his installation, in the presence of his clergy, and in the chancel of his church. The
mock dignitary was a stout-made under-sized fellow, whose thick squab form had been rendered
grotesque by a supplemental paunch, well stuffed. He wore a mitre of leather, with the front
like a grenadier's cap, adorned with mock embroidery, and trinkets of tin. This surmounted
a visage, the nose of which was the most prominent feature, being of unusual size, and at least
as richly gemmed as his head-gear. His robe was of buckram, and his cope of canvass, curiously
painted, and cut into open work. On one shoulder was fixed the painted figure of an owl; and
he bore in the right hand his pastoral staff, and in the left a small mirror having a handle
to it, thus resembling a celebrated jester, whose adventures, translated into English, were
whilom extremely popular, and which may still be procured in black letter, for about one sterling
pound per leaf.

The attendants of this mock dignitary had their proper dresses and equipage, bearing the same
burlesque resemblance to the officers of the Convent which their leader did to the Superior.
They followed their leader in regular procession, and the motley characters, which had waited
his arrival, now crowded into the church in his train, shouting as they came,--"A hall, a hall!
for the venerable Father Howleglas, the learned Monk of Misrule, and the Right Reverend Abbot
of Unreason!"

The discordant minstrelsy of every kind renewed its din; the boys shrieked and howled, and
the men laughed and hallooed, and the women giggled and screamed, and the beasts roared, and
the dragon wallopped and hissed, and the hobby-horse neighed, pranced, and capered, and the
rest frisked and frolicked, clashing their hobnailed shoes against the pavement, till it sparkled
with the marks of their energetic caprioles.

It was, in fine, a scene of ridiculous confusion, that deafened the ear, made the eyes giddy,
and must have altogether stunned any indifferent spectator; the monks, whom personal apprehension
and a consciousness that much of the popular enjoyment arose from the ridicule being directed
against them, were, moreover, little comforted by the reflection, that, bold in their disguise,
the mummers who whooped and capered around them, might, on slight provocation, turn their jest
into earnest, or at least proceed to those practical pleasantries, which at all times arise
so naturally out of the frolicsome and mischievous disposition of the populace. They looked
to their Abbot amid the tumult, with such looks as landsmen cast upon the pilot when the storm
is at the highest--looks which express that they are devoid of all hope arising from their
own exertions, and not very confident in any success likely to attend those of their Palinurus.

The Abbot himself seemed at a stand; he felt no fear, but he was sensible of the danger of
expressing his rising indignation, which he was scarcely able to suppress. He made a gesture
with his hand as if commanding silence, which was at first only replied to by redoubled shouts,
and peals of wild laughter. When, however, the same motion, and as nearly in the same manner,
had been made by Howleglas, it was immediately obeyed by his riotous companions, who expected
fresh food for mirth in the conversation betwixt the real and mock Abbot, having no small confidence
in the vulgar wit and impudence of their leader. Accordingly, they began to shout, "To it,
fathers--to it I"--"Fight monk, fight madcap--Abbot against Abbot is fair play, and so is reason
against unreason, and malice against monkery!"

"Silence, my mates!" said Howleglas; "cannot two learned Fathers of the Church hold communion
together, but you must come here with your bear-garden whoop and hollo, as if you were hounding
forth a mastiff upon a mad bull? I say silence! and let this learned Father and me confer,
touching matters affecting our mutual state and authority."

"My children"-said Father Ambrose.

"My children too,--and happy children they are!" said his burlesque counterpart; "many a wise
child knows not its own father, and it is well they have two to choose betwixt."

"If thou hast aught in thee, save scoffing and ribaldry," said the real Abbot, "permit me,
for thine own soul's sake, to speak a few words to these misguided men."

"Aught in me but scoffing, sayest thou?" retorted the Abbot of Unreason; "why, reverend brother,
I have all that becomes mine office at this time a-day--I have beef, ale, and brandy-wine,
with other condiments not worth mentioning; and for speaking, man--why, speak away, and we
will have turn about, like honest fellows."

During this discussion the wrath of Magdalen Graeme had risen to the uttermost; she approached
the Abbot, and placing herself by his side, said in a low and yet distinct tone-"Wake and arouse
thee, Father--the sword of Saint Peter is in thy hand--strike and avenge Saint Peter's patrimony!--Bind
them in the chains which, being riveted by the church on earth, are riveted in Heaven--"

"Peace, sister!" said the Abbot; "let not their madness destroy our discretion--I pray thee,
peace, and let me do mine office. It is the first, peradventure it may be the last time, I
shall be called on to discharge it."

"Nay, my holy brother!" said Howleglas, "I rede you, take the holy sister's advice--never throve
convent without woman's counsel."

"Peace, vain man!" said the Abbot; "and you, my brethren--"

"Nay, nay!" said the Abbot of Unreason, "no speaking to the lay people, until you have conferred
with your brother of the cowl. I swear by bell, book, and candle, that no one of my congregation
shall listen to one word you have to say; so you had as well address yourself to me who will."

To escape a conference so ludicrous, the Abbot again attempted an appeal to what respectful
feelings might yet remain amongst the inhabitants of the Halidome, once so devoted to their
spiritual Superiors. Alas! the Abbot of Unreason had only to nourish his mock crosier, and
the whooping, the hallooing, and the dancing, were renewed with a vehemence which would have
defied the lungs of Stentor.

"And now, my mates," said the Abbot of Unreason, "once again dight your gabs and be hushed-let
us see if the Cock of Kennaquhair will fight or flee the pit."

There was again a dead silence of expectation, of which Father Ambrose availed himself to address
his antagonist, seeing plainly that he could gain an audience on no other terms. "Wretched
man!" said he, "hast thou no better employment for thy carnal wit, than to employ it in leading
these blind and helpless creatures into the pit of utter darkness?"

"Truly, my brother," replied Howleglas, "I can see little difference betwixt your employment
and mine, save that you make a sermon of a jest, and I make a jest of a sermon."

"Unhappy being," said the Abbot, "who hast no better subject of pleasantry than that which
should make thee tremble--no sounder jest than thine own sins, and no better objects for laughter
than those who can absolve thee from the guilt of them!"

"Verily, my reverend brother," said the mock Abbot, "what you say might be true, if, in laughing
at hypocrites, I meant to laugh at religion.--Oh, it is a precious thing to wear a long dress,
with a girdle and a cowl--we become a holy pillar of Mother Church, and a boy must not play
at ball against the walls for fear of breaking a painted window!"

"And will you, my friends," said the Abbot, looking round and speaking with a vehemence which
secured him a tranquil audience for some time,--"will you suffer a profane buffoon, within
the very church of God, to insult his ministers? Many of you--all of you, perhaps--have lived
under my holy predecessors, who were called upon to rule in this church where I am called upon
to suffer. If you have worldly goods, they are their gift; and, when you scorned not to accept
better gifts--the mercy and forgiveness of the church--were they not ever at your command?--did
we not pray while you were jovial--wake while you slept?"

"Some of the good wives of the Halidome were wont to say so," said the Abbot of Unreason; but
his jest met in this instance but slight applause, and Father Ambrose, having gained a moment's
attention, hastened to improve it.

"What!" said he; "and is this grateful--is it seemly--is it honest--to assail with scorn a
few old men, from whose predecessors you hold all, and whose only wish is to die in peace among
these fragments of what was once the light of the land, and whose daily prayer is, that they
may be removed ere that hour comes when the last spark shall be extinguished, and the land
left in the darkness which it has chosen rather than light? We have not turned against you
the edge of the spiritual sword, to revenge our temporal persecution; the tempest of your wrath
hath despoiled us of land, and deprived us almost of our daily food, but we have not repaid
it with the thunders of excommunication--we only pray your leave to live and die within the
church which is our own, invoking God, our Lady, and the Holy Saints to pardon your sins, and
our own, undisturbed by scurril buffoonery and blasphemy."

This speech, so different in tone and termination from that which the crowd had expected, produced
an effect upon their feelings unfavourable to the prosecution of their frolic. The morris-dancers
stood still--the hobby-horse surceased his capering--pipe and tabor were mute, and "silence,
like a heavy cloud," seemed to descend on the once noisy rabble. Several of the beasts were
obviously moved to compunction; the bear could not restrain his sobs, and a huge fox was observed
to wipe his eyes with his tail. But in especial the dragon, lately so formidably rampant, now
relaxed the terror of his claws, uncoiled his tremendous rings, and grumbled out of his fiery
throat in a repentant tone, "By the mass, I thought no harm in exercising our old pastime,
but an I had thought the good Father would have taken it so to heart, I would as soon have
played your devil, as your dragon."

In this momentary pause, the Abbot stood amongst the miscellaneous and grotesque forms by which
he was surrounded, triumphant as Saint Anthony, in Callot's Temptations; but Howleglas would
not so resign his purpose.

"And how now, my masters!" said he, "is this fair play or no? Have you not chosen me Abbot
of Unreason, and is it lawful for any of you to listen to common sense to-day? Was I not formally
elected by you in solemn chapter, held in Luckie Martin's change-house, and will you now desert
me, and give up your old pastime and privilege? Play out the play--and he that speaks the next
word of sense or reason, or bids us think or consider, or the like of that, which befits not
the day, I will have him solemnly ducked in the mill-dam!"

The rabble, mutable as usual, huzzaed, the pipe and tabor struck up, the hobby-horse pranced,
the beasts roared, and even the repentant dragon began again to coil up his spires, and prepare
himself for fresh gambols. But the Abbot might still have overcome, by his eloquence and his
entreaties, the malicious designs of the revellers, had not Dame Magdalen Graeme given loose
to the indignation which she had long suppressed.

"Scoffers," she said, "and men of Belial--Blasphemous heretics, and truculent tyrants----"

"Your patience, my sister, I entreat and I command you!" said the Abbot; "let me do my duty--disturb
me not in mine office!"

But Dame Magdalen continued to thunder forth her threats in the name of Popes and Councils,
and in the name of every Saint, from St. Michael downward.

"My comrades!" said the Abbot of Unreason, "this good dame hath not spoken a single word of
reason, and therein may esteem herself free from the law. But what she spoke was meant for
reason, and, therefore, unless she confesses and avouches all which she has said to be nonsense,
it shall pass for such, so far as to incur our statutes. Wherefore, holy dame, pilgrim, or
abbess, or whatever thou art, be mute with thy mummery or beware the mill-dam. We will have
neither spiritual nor temporal scolds in our Diocese of Unreason!"

As he spoke thus, he extended his hand towards the old woman, while his followers shouted,
"A doom--a doom!" and prepared to second his purpose, when lo! it was suddenly frustrated.
Roland Graeme had witnessed with indignation the insults offered to his old spiritual preceptor,
but yet had wit enough to reflect he could render him no assistance, but might well, by ineffective
interference, make matters worse. But when he saw his aged relative in danger of personal violence,
he gave way to the natural impetuosity of his temper, and, stepping forward, struck his poniard
into the body of the Abbot of Unreason, whom the blow instantly prostrated on the pavement.

Chapter the Fifteenth.

  As when in tumults rise the ignoble crowd,
  Mad are their motions, and their tongues are loud,
  And stones and brands in rattling furies fly,
  And all the rustic arms which fury can supply--
  Then if some grave and pious man appear,
  They hush their noise, and lend a listening ear.
                                  DRYDEN'S VIRGIL

A dreadful shout of vengeance was raised by the revellers, whose sport was thus so fearfully
interrupted; but for an instant, the want of weapons amongst the multitude, as well as the
inflamed features arid brandished poniard of Roland Graeme, kept them at bay, while the Abbot,
horror-struck at the violence, implored, with uplifted hands, pardon for blood-shed committed
within the sanctuary. Magdalen Graeme alone expressed triumph in the blow her descendant had
dealt to the scoffer, mixed, however, with a wild and anxious expression of terror for her
grandson's safety. "Let him perish," she said, "in his blasphemy--let him die on the holy pavement
which he has insulted!"

But the rage of the multitude, the grief of the Abbot, the exultation of the enthusiastic Magdalen,
were all mistimed and unnecessary. Howleglas, mortally wounded as he was supposed to be, sprung
alertly up from the floor, calling aloud, "A miracle, a miracle, my masters! as brave a miracle
as ever was wrought in the kirk of Kennaquhair. And I charge you, my masters, as your lawfully
chosen Abbot, that you touch no one without my command--You, wolf and bear, will guard this
pragmatic youth, but without hurting him--And you, reverend brother, will, with your comrades,
withdraw to your cells; for our conference has ended like all conferences, leaving each of
his own mind, as before; and if we fight, both you, and your brethren, and the Kirk, will have
the worst on't--Wherefore, pack up you pipes and begone."

The hubbub was beginning again to awaken, but still Father Ambrose hesitated, as uncertain
to what path his duty called him, whether to face out the present storm, or to reserve himself
for a better moment. His brother of Unreason observed his difficulty, and said, in a tone more
natural and less affected than that with which he had hitherto sustained his character, "We
came hither, my good sir, more in mirth than in mischief--our bark is worse than our bite--and,
especially, we mean you no personal harm--wherefore, draw off while the play is good; for it
is ill whistling for a hawk when she is once on the soar, and worse to snatch the quarry from
the ban-dog--Let these fellows once begin their brawl, and it will be too much for madness
itself, let alone the Abbot of Unreason, to bring them back to the lure."

The brethren crowded around Father Ambrosius, and joined in urging him to give place to the
torrent. The present revel was, they said, an ancient custom which his predecessors had permitted,
and old Father Nicholas himself had played the dragon in the days of the Abbot Ingelram.

"And we now reap the fruit of the seed which they have so unadvisedly sown," said Ambrosius;
"they taught men to make a mock of what is holy, what wonder that the descendants of scoffers
become robbers and plunderers? But be it as you list, my brethren--move towards the dortour--And
you, dame, I command you, by the authority which I have over you, and by your respect for that
youth's safety, that you go with us without farther speech--Yet, stay--what are your intentions
towards that youth whom you detain prisoner?--Wot ye," he continued, addressing Howleglas in
a stern tone of voice, "that he bears the livery of the House of Avenel? They who fear not
the anger of Heaven, may at least dread the wrath of man."

"Cumber not yourself concerning him," answered Howleglas, "we know right well who and what he is."

"Let me pray," said the Abbot, in a tone of entreaty, "that you do him no wrong for the rash
deed--which he attempted in his imprudent zeal."

"I say, cumber not yourself about it, father," answered Howleglas, "but move off with your
train, male and female, or I will not undertake to save yonder she-saint from the ducking-stool--And
as for bearing of malice, my stomach has no room for it; it is," he added, clapping his hand
on his portly belly, "too well bumbasted out with straw and buckram--gramercy to them both--they
kept out that madcap's dagger as well as a Milan corslet could have done."

In fact, the home-driven poniard of Roland Graeme had lighted upon the stuffing of the fictitious
paunch, which the Abbot of Unreason wore as a part of his characteristic dress, and it was
only the force of the blow which had prostrated that reverend person on the ground for a moment.

Satisfied in some degree by this man's assurances, and compelled--to give way to superior force,
the Abbot Ambrosius retired from the Church at the head of the monks, and left the court free
for the revellers to work their will. But, wild and wilful as these rioters were, they accompanied
the retreat of the religionists with none of those shouts of contempt and derision with which
they had at first hailed them. The Abbot's discourse had affected some of them with remorse,
others with shame, and all with a transient degree of respect. They remained silent until the
last monk had disappeared through the side-door which communicated with their dwelling-place,
and even then it cost some exhortations on the part of Howleglas, some caprioles of the hobby-horse,
and some wallops of the dragon, to rouse once more the rebuked spirit of revelry.

"And how now, my masters?" said the Abbot of Unreason; "and wherefore look on me with such
blank Jack-a-Lent visages? Will you lose your old pastime for an old wife's tale of saints
and purgatory? Why, I thought you would have made all split long since--Come, strike up, tabor
and harp, strike up, fiddle and rebeck--dance and be merry to-day, and let care come to-morrow.
Bear and wolf, look to your prisoner--prance, hobby--hiss, dragon, and halloo, boys--we grow
older every moment we stand idle, and life is too short to be spent in playing mumchance."

This pithy exhortation was attended with the effect desired. They fumigated the Church with
burnt wool and feathers instead of incense, put foul water into the holy-water basins, and
celebrated a parody on the Church-service, the mock Abbot officiating at the altar; they sung
ludicrous and indecent parodies, to the tunes of church hymns; they violated whatever vestments
or vessels belonging to the Abbey they could lay their hands upon; and, playing every freak
which the whim of the moment could suggest to their wild caprice, at length they fell to more
lasting deeds of demolition, pulled down and destroyed some carved wood-work, dashed out the
painted windows which had escaped former violence, and in their rigorous search after sculpture
dedicated to idolatry, began to destroy what ornaments yet remained entire upon the tombs,
and around the cornices of the pillars.

The spirit of demolition, like other tastes, increases by indulgence; from these lighter attempts
at mischief, the more tumultuous part of the meeting began to meditate destruction on a more
extended scale--"Let us heave it down altogether, the old crow's nest," became a general cry
among them; "it has served the Pope and his rooks too long;" and up they struck a ballad which
was then popular among the lower classes. [Footnote: These rude rhymes are taken, with some
trifling alterations, from a ballad called Trim-go-trix. It occurs in a singular collection,
entitled; "A Compendious Book of Godly and Spiritual Songs, collected out of sundrie parts
of the Scripture, with sundry of other ballatis changed out of prophane sanges for avoyding
of sin and harlotrie, with Augmentation of sundrie Gude and Godly Ballates. Edinburgh, printed
by Andro Hart." This curious collection has been reprinted in Mr. John. Grahame Dalyell's Scottish
Poems of the 16th century Edin. 1801, 2 vols.]

  "The Paip, that pagan full of pride,
  Hath blinded us ower lang.
  For where the blind the blind doth lead,
  No marvel baith gae wrang.
  Like prince and king,
  He led the ring
  Of all iniquity.
  Sing hay trix, trim-go-trix,
  Under the greenwood tree.

  "The Bishop rich, he could not preach
  For sporting with the lasses;
  The silly friar behoved to fleech
  For awmous as he passes:
  The curate his creed
  He could not read,--
  Shame fa' company!
  Sing hay trix, trim-go-trix,
  Under the greenwood tree."

Thundering out this chorus of a notable hunting song, which had been pressed into the service
of some polemical poet, the followers of the Abbot of Unreason were turning every moment more
tumultuous, and getting beyond the management even of that reverend prelate himself, when a
knight in full armour, followed by two or three men-at-arms, entered the church, and in a stern
voice commanded them to forbear their riotous mummery.

His visor was up, but if it had been lowered, the cognizance of the holly-branch sufficiently
distinguished Sir Halbert Glendinning, who, on his homeward road, was passing through the village
of Kennaquhair; and moved, perhaps, by anxiety for his brother's safety, had come directly
to the church on hearing of the uproar.

"What is the meaning of this," he said, "my masters? are ye Christian men, and the king's subjects,
and yet waste and destroy church and chancel like so many heathens?"

All stood silent, though doubtless there were several disappointed and surprised at receiving
chiding instead of thanks from so zealous a protestant.

The dragon, indeed, did at length take upon him to be spokesman, and growled from the depth
of his painted maw, that they did but sweep Popery out of the church with the besom of destruction.

"What! my friends," replied Sir Halbert Glendinning, "think you this mumming and masking has
not more of Popery in it than have these stone walls? Take the leprosy out of your flesh, before
you speak of purifying stone walls--abate your insolent license, which leads but to idle vanity
and sinful excess; and know, that what you now practise, is one of the profane and unseemly
sports introduced by the priests of Rome themselves, to mislead and to brutify the souls which
fell into their net."

"Marry come up--are you there with your bears?" muttered the dragon, with a draconic sullenness,
which was in good keeping with his character, "we had as good have been Romans still, if we
are to have no freedom in our pastimes!"

"Dost thou reply to me so?" said Halbert Glendinning; "or is there any pastime in grovelling
on the ground there like a gigantic kail-worm?--Get out of thy painted case, or, by my knighthood,
I will treat you like the beast and reptile you have made yourself."

"Beast and reptile?" retorted the offended dragon, "setting aside your knighthood, I hold myself
as well a born man as thyself."

The Knight made no answer in words, but bestowed two such blows with the butt of his lance
on the petulant dragon, that had not the hoops which constituted the ribs of the machine been
pretty strong, they would hardly have saved those of the actor from being broken. In all haste
the masker crept out of his disguise, unwilling to abide a third buffet from the lance of the
enraged Knight. And when the ex-dragon stood on the floor of the church, he presented to Halbert
Glendinning the well-known countenance of Dan of the Howlet-hirst, an ancient comrade of his
own, ere fate had raised him so high above the rank to which he was born. The clown looked
sulkily upon the Knight, as if to upbraid him for his violence towards an old acquaintance,
and Glendinning's own good-nature reproached him for the violence he had acted upon him.

"I did wrong to strike thee," he said, "Dan; but in truth, I knew thee not--thou wert ever
a mad fellow--come to Avenel Castle, and we shall see how my hawks fly."

"And if we show him not falcons that will mount as merrily as rockets," said the Abbot of Unreason,
"I would your honour laid as hard on my bones as you did on his even now."

"How now, Sir Knave," said the Knight, "and what has brought you hither?"

The Abbot, hastily ridding himself of the false nose which mystified his physiognomy, and the
supplementary belly which made up his disguise, stood before his master in his real character,
of Adam Woodcock, the falconer of Avenel.

"How, varlet!" said the Knight; "hast thou dared to come here and disturb the very house my
brother was dwelling in?"

"And it was even for that reason, craving your honour's pardon, that I came hither--for I heard
the country was to be up to choose an Abbot of Unreason, and sure, thought I, I that can sing,
dance, leap backwards over a broadsword, and am as good a fool as ever sought promotion, have
all chance of carrying the office; and if I gain my election, I may stand his honour's brother
in some stead, supposing things fall roughly out at the Kirk of Saint Mary's."

"Thou art but a cogging knave," said Sir Halbert, "and well I wot, that love of ale and brandy,
besides the humour of riot and frolic, would draw thee a mile, when love of my house would
not bring thee a yard. But, go to--carry thy roisterers elsewhere--to the alehouse if they
list, and there are crowns to pay your charges--make out the day's madness without doing more
mischief, and be wise men to-morrow--and hereafter learn to serve a good cause better than
by acting like buffoons or ruffians."

Obedient to his master's mandate, the falconer was collecting his discouraged followers, and
whispering into their ears--"Away, away--tace is Latin for a candle--never mind the good Knight's
puritanism--we will play the frolic out over a stand of double ale in Dame Martin the Brewster's
barn-yard--draw off, harp and tabor--bagpipe and drum--mum till you are out of the church-yard,
then let the welkin ring again--move on, wolf and bear--keep the hind legs till you cross the
kirk-stile, and then show yourselves beasts of mettle--what devil sent him here to spoil our
holiday!--but anger him not, my hearts; his lance is no goose-feather, as Dan's ribs can tell."

"By my soul," said Dan, "had it been another than my ancient comrade, I would have made my
father's old fox [Footnote: Fox, An old-fashioned broadsword was often so called.] fly about
his ears!"

"Hush! hush! man," replied Adam Woodcock, "not a word that way, as you value the safety of
your bones--what man? we must take a clink as it passes, so it is not bestowed in downright
ill-will."

"But I will take no such thing," said Dan of the Howlet-hirst, suddenly resisting the efforts
of Woodcock, who was dragging him out of the church; when the quick military eye of Sir Halbert
Glendinning detecting Roland Graeme betwixt his two guards, the Knight exclaimed, "So ho! falconer,--Woodcock,--knave,
hast thou brought my Lady's page in mine own livery, to assist at this hopeful revel of thine,
with your wolves and bears? Since you were at such mummings, you might, if you would, have
at least saved the credit of my household, by dressing him up as a jackanapes--bring him hither,
fellows!"

Adam Woodcock was too honest and downright, to permit blame to light upon the youth, when it
was undeserved. "I swear," he said, "by Saint Martin of Bullions--" [Footnote: The Saint Swithin,
or weeping Saint of Scotland. If his festival (fourth July) prove wet, forty days of rain are
expected.]

"And what hast thou to do with Saint Martin?"

"Nay, little enough, sir, unless when he sends such rainy days that we cannot fly a hawk--but
I say to your worshipful knighthood, that as I am, a true man----"

"As you are a false varlet, had been the better obtestation."

"Nay, if your knighthood allows me not to speak," said Adam, "I can hold my tongue--but the
boy came not hither by my bidding, for all that."

"But to gratify his own malapert pleasure, I warrant me," said Sir Halbert Glendinning--"Come
hither, young springald, and tell me whether you have your mistress's license to be so far
absent from the castle, or to dishonour my livery by mingling in such a May-game?"

"Sir Halbert Glendinning," answered Roland Graeme with steadiness, "I have obtained the permission,
or rather the commands, of your lady, to dispose of my time hereafter according to my own pleasure.
I have been a most unwilling spectator of this May-game, since it is your pleasure so to call
it; and I only wear your livery until I can obtain clothes which bear no such badge of servitude."

"How am I to understand this, young man?" said Sir Halbert Glendinning; "speak plainly, for
I am no reader of riddles.--That my lady favoured thee, I know. What hast thou done to disoblige
her, and occasion thy dismissal?"

"Nothing to speak of," said Adam Woodcock, answering for the boy--"a foolish quarrel with me,
which was more foolishly told over again to my honoured lady, cost the poor boy his place.
For my part, I will say freely, that I was wrong from beginning to end, except about the washing
of the eyas's meat. There I stand to it that I was right."

With that, the good-natured falconer repeated to his master the whole history of the squabble
which had brought Roland Graeme into disgrace with his mistress, but in a manner so favourable
for the page, that Sir Halbert could not but suspect his generous motive.

"Thou art a good-natured fellow," he said, "Adam Woodcock."

"As ever had falcon upon fist," said Adam; "and, for that matter, so is Master Roland; but,
being half a gentleman by his office, his blood is soon up, and so is mine."

"Well," said Sir Halbert, "be it as it will, my lady has acted hastily, for this was no great
matter of offence to discard the lad whom she had trained up for years; but he, I doubt not,
made it worse by his prating--it jumps well with a purpose, however, which I had in my mind.
Draw off these people, Woodcock,--and you, Roland Graeme, attend me."

The page followed him in silence into the Abbot's house, where, stepping into the first apartment
which he found open, he commanded one of his attendants to let his brother, Master Edward Glendinning,
know that he desired to speak with him. The men-at-arms went gladly off to join their comrade,
Adam Woodcock, and the jolly crew whom he had assembled at Dame Martin's, the hostler's wife,
and the Page and Knight were left alone in the apartment. Sir Halbert Glendinning paced the
floor for a moment in silence and then thus addressed his attendant--

"Thou mayest have remarked, stripling, that I have but seldom distinguished thee by much notice;--I
see thy colour rises, but do not speak till thou nearest me out. I say I have never much distinguished
thee, not because I did not see that in thee which I might well have praised, but because I
saw something blameable, which such praises might have made worse. Thy mistress, dealing according
to her pleasure in her own household, as no one had better reason or title, had picked thee
from the rest, and treated thee more like a relation than a domestic; and if thou didst show
some vanity and petulance under such distinction, it were injustice not to say that thou hast
profited both in thy exercises and in thy breeding, and hast shown many sparkles of a gentle
and manly spirit. Moreover, it were ungenerous, having bred thee up freakish and fiery, to
dismiss thee to want or wandering, for showing that very peevishness and impatience of discipline
which arose from thy too delicate nurture. Therefore, and for the credit of my own household,
I am determined to retain thee in my train, until I can honourably dispose of thee elsewhere,
with a fair prospect of thy going through the world with credit to the house that brought thee up."

If there was something in Sir Halbert Glendinning's speech which flattered Roland's pride,
there was also much that, according to his mode of thinking, was an alloy to the compliment.
And yet his conscience instantly told him that he ought to accept, with grateful deference,
the offer which was made him by the husband of his kind protectress; and his prudence, however
slender, could not but admit he should enter the world under very different auspices as a retainer
of Sir Halbert Glendinning, so famed for wisdom, courage, and influence, from those under which
he might partake the wanderings, and become an agent in the visionary schemes, for such they
appeared to him, of Magdalen, his relative. Still, a strong reluctance to re-enter a service
from which he had been dismissed with contempt, almost counterbalanced these considerations.

Sir Halbert looked on the youth with surprise, and resumed--"You seem to hesitate, young man.
Are your own prospects so inviting, that you should pause ere you accept those which I should
offer to you? or, must I remind you that, although you have offended your benefactress, even
to the point of her dismissing you, yet I am convinced, the knowledge that you have gone unguided
on your own wild way, into a world so disturbed as ours of Scotland, cannot, in the upshot,
but give her sorrow and pain; from which it is, in gratitude, your duty to preserve her, no
less than it is in common wisdom your duty to accept my offered protection, for your own sake,
where body and soul are alike endangered, should you refuse it."

Roland Graeme replied in a respectful tone, but at the same time with some spirit, "I am not
ungrateful for such countenance as has been afforded me by the Lord of Avenel, and I am glad
to learn, for the first time, that I have not had the misfortune to be utterly beneath his
observation, as I had thought--And it is only needful to show me how I can testify my duty
and my gratitude towards my early and constant benefactress with my life's hazard, and I will
gladly peril it." He stopped.

"These are but words, young man," answered Glendinning, "large protestations are often used
to supply the place of effectual service. I know nothing in which the peril of your life can
serve the Lady of Avenel; I can only say, she will be pleased to learn you have adopted some
course which may ensure the safety of your person, and the weal of your soul--What ails you,
that you accept not that safety when it is offered you?"

"My only relative who is alive," answered Roland, "at least the only relative whom I have ever
seen, has rejoined me since I was dismissed from the Castle of Avenel, and I must consult with
her whether I can adopt the line to which you now call me, or whether her increasing infirmities,
or the authority which she is entitled to exercise over me, may not require me to abide with her."

"Where is this relation?" said Sir Halbert Glendinning.

"In this house," answered the page.

"Go then, and seek her out," said the Knight of Avenel; "more than meet it is that thou shouldst
have her approbation, yet worse than foolish would she show herself in denying it."

Roland left the apartment to seek for his grandmother; and, as he retreated, the Abbot entered.

The two brothers met as brothers who loved each other fondly, yet meet rarely together. Such
indeed was the case. Their mutual affection attached them to each other; but in every pursuit,
habit or sentiment, connected with the discords of the times, the friend and counsellor of
Murray stood opposed to the Roman Catholic priest; nor, indeed, could they have held very much
society together, without giving cause of offence and suspicion to their confederates on each
side. After a close embrace on the part of both, and a welcome on that of the Abbot, Sir Halbert
Glendinning expressed his satisfaction that he had come in time to appease the riot raised
by Howleglas and his tumultuous followers.

"And yet," he said, "when I look on your garments, brother Edward, I cannot help thinking there
still remains an Abbot of Unreason within the bounds of the Monastery."

"And wherefore carp at my garments, brother Halbert?" said the Abbot; "it is the spiritual
armour of my calling, and, as such, beseems me as well as breastplate and baldric becomes your
own bosom."

"Ay, but there were small wisdom, methinks, in putting on armour where we have no power to
fight; it is but a dangerous temerity to defy the foe whom we cannot resist."

"For that, my brother, no one can answer," said the Abbot, "until the battle be fought; and,
were it even as you say, methinks a brave man, though desperate of victory, would rather desire
to fight and fall, than to resign sword and shield on some mean and dishonourable composition
with his insulting antagonist. But, let not you and I make discord of a theme on which we cannot
agree, but rather stay and partake, though a heretic, of my admission feast. You need not fear,
my brother, that your zeal for restoring the primitive discipline of the church will, on this
occasion, be offended with the rich profusion of a conventual banquet. The days of our old
friend Abbot Boniface are over; and the Superior of Saint Mary's has neither forests nor fishings,
woods nor pastures, nor corn-fields;--neither flocks nor herds, bucks nor wild-fowl--granaries
of wheat, nor storehouses of oil and wine, of ale and of mead. The refectioner's office is
ended; and such a meal as a hermit in romance can offer to a wandering knight, is all we have
to set before you. But, if you will share it with us, we shall eat it with a cheerful heart,
and thank you, my brother, for your timely protection against these rude scoffers."

"My dearest brother," said the Knight, "it grieves me deeply I cannot abide with you; but it
would sound ill for us both were one of the reformed congregation to sit down at your admission
feast; and, if I can ever have the satisfaction of affording you effectual protection, it will
be much owing to my remaining unsuspected of countenancing or approving your religious rites
and ceremonies. It will demand whatever consideration I can acquire among my own friends, to
shelter the bold man, who, contrary to law and the edicts of parliament, has dared to take
up the office of Abbot of Saint Mary's."

"Trouble not yourself with the task, my brother," replied Father Ambrosius. "I would lay down
my dearest blood to know that you defended the church for the church's sake; but, while you
remain unhappily her enemy, I would not that you endangered your own safety, or diminished
your own comforts, for the sake of my individual protection.--But who comes hither to disturb
the few minutes of fraternal communication which our evil fate allows us?"

The door of the apartment opened as the Abbot spoke, and Dame Magdalen entered.

"Who is this woman?" said Sir Halbert Glendinning, somewhat sternly, "and what does she want?"

"That you know me not," said the matron, "signifies little; I come by your own order, to give
my free consent that the stripling, Roland Graeme, return to your service; and, having said
so, I cumber you no longer with my presence. Peace be with you!" She turned to go away, but
was stopped by inquiries of Sir Halbert Glendinning.

"Who are you?--what are you?--and why do you not await to make me answer?"

"I was," she replied, "while yet I belonged to the world, a matron of no vulgar name; now I
am Magdalen, a poor pilgrimer, for the sake of Holy Kirk."

"Yea," said Sir Halbert, "art thou a Catholic? I thought my dame said that Roland Graeme came
of reformed kin.'

"His father," said the matron, "was a heretic, or rather one who regarded neither orthodoxy
or heresy--neither the temple of the church or of antichrist. I, too, for the sins of the times
make sinners, have seemed to conform to your unhallowed rites--but I had my dispensation and
my absolution."

"You see, brother," said Sir Halbert, with a smile of meaning towards his brother, "that we
accuse you not altogether without grounds of mental equivocation."

"My brother, you do us injustice," replied the Abbot; "this woman, as her bearing may of itself
warrant you, is not in her perfect mind. Thanks, I must needs say, to the persecution of your
marauding barons, and of your latitudinarian clergy."

"I will not dispute the point," said Sir Halbert; "the evils of the time are unhappily so numerous,
that both churches may divide them, and have enow to spare." So saying, he leaned from the
window of the apartment, and winded his bugle.

"Why do you sound your horn, my brother?" said the Abbot; "we have spent but few minutes together."

"Alas!" said the elder brother, "and even these few have been sullied by disagreement. I sound
to horse, my brother--the rather that, to avert the consequences of this day's rashness on
your part, requires hasty efforts on mine.--Dame, you will oblige me by letting your young
relative know that we mount instantly. I intend not that he shall return to Avenel with me--it
would lead to new quarrels betwixt him and my household; at least to taunts which his proud
heart could ill brook, and my wish is to do him kindness. He shall, therefore, go forward to
Edinburgh with one of my retinue, whom I shall send back to say what has chanced here.--You
seem rejoiced at this?" he added, fixing his eyes keenly on Magdalen Graeme, who returned his
gaze with calm indifference.

"I would rather," she said, "that Roland, a poor and friendless orphan, were the jest of the
world at large, than of the menials at Avenel."

"Fear not, dame--he shall be scorned by neither," answered the Knight.

"It may be," she replied--"it may well be--but I will trust more to his own bearing than to
your countenance." She left the room as she spoke.

The Knight looked after her as she departed, but turned instantly to his brother, and expressing,
in the most affectionate terms, his wishes for his welfare and happiness, craved his leave
to depart. "My knaves," he said, "are too busy at the ale-stand, to leave their revelry for
the empty breath of a bugle-horn."

"You have freed them from higher restraint, Halbert," answered the Abbot, "and therein taught
them to rebel against your own."

"Fear not that, Edward," exclaimed Halbert, who never gave his brother his monastic name of
Ambrosius; "none obey the command of real duty so well as those who are free from the observance
of slavish bondage."

He was turning to depart, when the Abbot said,--"Let us not yet part, my brother--here comes
some light refreshment. Leave not the house which I must now call mine, till force expel me
from it, until you have at least broken bread with me."

The poor lay brother, the same who acted as porter, now entered the apartment, bearing some
simple refreshment, and a flask of wine. "He had found it," he said with officious humility,
"by rummaging through every nook of the cellar."

The Knight filled a small silver cup, and, quaffing it off, asked his brother to pledge him,
observing, the wine was Bacharac, of the first vintage, and great age.

"Ay," said the poor lay brother, "it came out of the nook which old brother Nicholas, (may
his soul be happy!) was wont to call Abbot Ingelram's corner; and Abbot Ingelram was bred at
the Convent of Wurtzburg, which I understand to be near where that choice wine grows."

"True, my reverend sir," said Sir Halbert; "and therefore I entreat my brother and you to pledge
me in a cup of this orthodox vintage."

The thin old porter looked with a wishful glance towards the Abbot. "Do veniam," said his Superior;
and the old man seized, with a trembling hand, a beverage to which he had been long unaccustomed;
drained the cup with protracted delight, as if dwelling on the flavour and perfume, and set
it down with a melancholy smile and shake of the head, as if bidding adieu in future to such
delicious potations. The brothers smiled. But when Sir Halbert motioned to the Abbot to take
up his cup and do him reason, the Abbot, in turn, shook his head, and replied--"This is no
day for the Abbot of Saint Mary's to eat the fat and drink the sweat. In water from our Lady's
well," he added, filling a cup with the limpid element, "I wish you, brother, all happiness,
and above all, a true sight of your spiritual errors."

"And to you, my beloved Edward," replied Glendinning, "I wish the free exercise of your own
free reason, and the discharge of more important duties than are connected with the idle name
which you have so rashly assumed."

The brothers parted with deep regret; and yet, each confident in his opinion, felt somewhat
relieved by the absence of one whom he respected so much, and with whom he could agree so little.

Soon afterwards the sound of the Knight of Avenel's trumpets was heard, and the Abbot went
to the top of the tower, from whose dismantled battlements he could soon see the horsemen ascending
the rising ground in the direction of the drawbridge. As he gazed, Magdalen Graeme came to
his side.

"Thou art come," he said, "to catch the last glimpse of thy grandson, my sister. Yonder he
wends, under the charge of the best knight in Scotland, his faith ever excepted."

"Thou canst bear witness, my father, that it was no wish either of mine or of Roland's," replied
the matron, "which induced the Knight of Avenel, as he is called, again to entertain my grandson
in his household--Heaven, which confounds the wise with their own wisdom, and the wicked with
their own policy, hath placed him where, for the services of the Church, I would most wish
him to be."

"I know not what you mean, my sister," said the Abbot.

"Reverend father," replied Magdalen, "hast thou never heard that there are spirits powerful
to rend the walls of a castle asunder when once admitted, which yet cannot enter the house
unless they are invited, nay, dragged over the threshold?

[Footnote: There is a popular belief respecting evil spirits, that they cannot enter an inhabited
house unless invited, nay, dragged over the threshold. There is an instance of the same superstition
in the Tales of the Genii, where an enchanter is supposed to have intruded himself into the
Divan of the Sultan.

"'Thus,' said the illustrious Misnar, 'let the enemies of Mahomet be dismayed! but inform me,
O ye sages! under the semblance of which of your brethren did that foul enchanter gain admittance
here?'--'May the lord of my heart,' answered Balihu, the hermit of the faithful from Queda,
'triumph over all his foes! As I travelled on the mountains from Queda, and saw neither the
footsteps of beasts, nor the flight of birds, behold, I chanced to pass through a cavern, in
whose hollow sides I found this accursed sage, to whom I unfolded the invitation of the Sultan
of India, and we, joining, journeyed towards the Divan; but ere we entered, he said unto me.
'Put thy hand forth, and pull me towards thee into the Divan, calling on the name of Mahomet,
for the evil spirits are on me and vex me.'"

