This prelate had stood the journey well, and appeared in good health and fine spirits.  Talleyrand,
who had arrived at Lyons a few days before the First Consul, gave a dinner to the Cisalpine
deputies and the principal notables of the city, at which the Archbishop of Milan sat on his
right. He had scarcely taken his seat, and was in the act of leaning forward to speak to M.
de Talleyrand, when he fell dead in his armchair.

On the 12th of January the town of Lyons gave, in honor of the First Consul and Madame Bonaparte,
a magnificent fete, consisting of a concert, followed by a ball.  At eight o'clock in the evening,
the three mayors, accompanied by the superintendents of the fete, called upon their illustrious
guests in the government palace.  I can imagine that I see again spread out before me that
immense amphitheater, handsomely decorated, and illuminated by innumerable lusters and candles,
the seats draped with the richest cloths manufactured in the city, and filled with thousands
of women, some brilliant in youth and beauty, and all magnificently attired.  The theater had
been chosen as the place of the fete; and on the entrance of the First Consul and Madame Bonaparte,
who advanced leaning on the arm of one of the mayors, there arose a thunder of applause and
acclamations.  Suddenly the decorations of the theater faded from sight, and the Place Bonaparte
(the former Place Belcour) appeared, as it had been restored by order of the First Consul.
In the midst rose a pyramid, surmounted by the statue of the First Consul, who was represented
as resting upon a lion.  Trophies of arms and bas-reliefs represented on one side, the other
that of Marengo.

When the first, transports excited by this spectacle, which recalled at once the benefits and
the victories of the hero of the fete, had subsided, there succeeded a deep silence, and delightful
music was heard, mingled with songs, dedicated to the glory of the First Consul, to his wife,
the warriors who surrounded him, and the representatives of the Italian republics.  The singers
and the musicians were amateurs of Lyons. Mademoiselle Longue, Gerbet, the postmaster, and
Theodore, the merchant, who had each performed their parts in a charming manner, received the
congratulations of the First Consul, and the most gracious thanks of Madame Bonaparte.

What struck me most forcibly in the couplets which were sung on that occasion, and which much
resembled all verses written for such occasions, was that incense was offered to the First
Consul in the very terms which all the poets of the Empire have since used in their turn. 
All the exaggerations of flattery were exhausted during the consulate; and in the years which
followed, it was necessary for poets often to repeat themselves.  Thus, in the couplets of
Lyons, the First Consul was the God of victory, the conqueror of the Nile and of Neptune, the
savior of his country, the peacemaker of the world, the arbiter of Europe.  The French soldiers
were transformed into friends and companions of Alcides, etc., all of which was cutting the
ground from under the feet of the singers of the future.

The fete of Lyons ended in a ball which lasted until daylight, at which the First Consul remained
two hours, which he spent in conversation with the magistrates of the city.  While the better
class of the inhabitants gave these grand entertainments to their guests, the people, notwithstanding
the cold, abandoned themselves on the public squares to pleasure and dancing, and towards midnight
there was a fine display of fireworks on the Place Bonaparte.

After fifteen or eighteen days passed at Lyons, we returned to Paris, the First Consul and
his wife continuing to reside by preference at Malmaison.  It was, I think, a short time after
the return of the First Consul that a poorly dressed man begged an audience; an order was given
to admit him to the cabinet, and the First Consul inquired his name. "General," replied the
petitioner, frightened by his presence, "it is I who had the honor of giving you writing lessons
in the school of Brienne."--"Fine scholar you have made!"  interrupted vehemently the First
Consul; "I compliment you on it!"  Then he began to laugh at his own vehemence, and addressed
a few kind words to this good man, whose timidity such a compliment had not reassured.  A few
days after the master received, from the least promising, doubtless, of all his pupils at Brienne
(you know how the Emperor wrote), a pension amply sufficient for his needs.

Another of the old teachers of the First Consul, the Abbe Dupuis, was appointed by him to the
post of private librarian at Malmaison, and lived and died there.  He was a modest man, and
had the reputation of being well-educated.  The First Consul visited him often in his room,
and paid him every imaginable attention and respect.

CHAPTER IX.

The day on which the First Consul promulgated the law of public worship, he rose early, and
entered the dressing-room to make his toilet.  While he was dressing I saw Joseph Bonaparte
enter his room with Cambaceres.

"Well," said the First Consul to the latter, "we are going to mass.  What do they think of
that in Paris?"--"Many persons," replied M. Cambaceres, "will go to the representation with
the intention of hissing the piece, if they do not find it amusing."

"If any one thinks of hissing, I will have him put out-of-doors by the grenadiers of the Consular
Guard."

"But if the grenadiers begin to hiss like the others?"

"I have no fear of that.  My old soldiers will go to Notre Dame exactly as they went to the
mosque at Cairo.  They will watch me; and seeing their general remain quiet and reverent, they
will do as he does, saying to themselves, "That is the countersign!"

"I am afraid," said Joseph Bonaparte, "that the general officers will not be so accommodating.
I have just left Augereau, who was vomiting fire and fury against what he calls your capricious
proclamations.  He, and. a few others, will not be easy to bring back into the pale of our
holy mother, the church."

"Bah! that is like Augereau.  He is a bawler, who makes a great noise; and yet if he has a
little imbecile cousin, he puts him in the priests college for me to make a chaplain of him.

"That reminds me," continued the First Consul, addressing his colleague, "when is your brother
going to take possession of his see of Rouen?  Do you know it has the finest archiepiscopal
palace in France?  He will be cardinal before a year has passed; that matter is already arranged."

The second consul bowed.  From that moment his manner towards the First Consul was rather that
of a courtier than an equal.

The plenipotentiaries who had been appointed to examine and sign the Concordat were Joseph
Bonaparte, Cruet, and the Abbe Bernier.  This latter, whom I saw sometimes at the Tuileries,
had been a chief of the Chouans, [The Chouans were Royalists in insurrection in Brittany.]
and took a prominent part in all that occurred.  The First Consul, in this same conversation,
the opening of which I have just related, discussed with his two companions the subject of
the conferences on the Concordat.  "The Abby Bernier," said the First Consul, "inspired fear
in the Italian prelates by the vehemence of his logic.  It might have been said that he imagined
himself living over again the days in which he led the Vendeens to the charge against the blues.
Nothing could be more striking than the contrast of his rude and quarrelsome manner with the
polished bearing and honeyed tones of the prelates.  Cardinal Caprara came to me two days ago,
with a shocked air, to ask if it is true that, during the war of the Vendee, the Abbe Bernier
made an altar on which to celebrate mass out of the corpses of the Republicans.  I replied
that I knew nothing of it, but that it was possible.  'General, First Consul,' cried the frightened
cardinal, 'it is not a red hat, but a red cap, which that man should have?'

"I am much afraid," continued the First Consul, "that that kind of cap would prevent the Abbe
Bernier from getting the red hat."

These gentlemen left the First Consul when his toilet was finished, and went to make their
own.  The First Consul wore on that day the costume of the consuls, which consisted of a scarlet
coat without facings, and with a broad embroidery of palms, in gold, on all the seams.  His
sword, which he had worn in Egypt, hung at his side from a belt, which, though not very wide,
was of beautiful workmanship, and richly embroidered.  He wore his black stock, in preference
to a lace cravat, and like his colleagues, wore knee-breeches and shoes; a French hat, with
floating plumes of the three colors, completed this rich costume.

The celebration of this sacrament at Notre Dame was a novel sight to the Parisians, and many
attended as if it were a theatrical representation. Many, also, especially amongst the military,
found it rather a matter of raillery than of edification; and those who, during the Revolution,
had contributed all their strength to the overthrow of the worship which the First Consul had
just re-established, could with difficulty conceal their indignation and their chagrin.

The common people saw in the Te Deum which was sung that day for peace and the Concordat, only
an additional gratification of their curiosity; but among the middle classes there was a large
number of pious persons, who had deeply regretted the suppression of the forms of devotion
in which they had been reared, and who were very happy in returning to the old worship.  And,
indeed, there was then no manifestation of superstition or of bigotry sufficient to alarm the
enemies of intolerance.

The clergy were exceedingly careful not to appear too exacting; they demanded little, condemned
no one; and the representative of the Holy Father, the cardinal legate, pleased all, except
perhaps a few dissatisfied old priests, by his indulgence, the worldly grace of his manners,
and the freedom of his conduct.  This prelate was entirely in accord with the First Consul,
and he took great pleasure in conversing with him.

It is also certain, that apart from all religious sentiment, the fidelity of the people to
their ancient customs made them return with pleasure to the repose and celebration of Sunday.
The Republican calendar was doubtless wisely computed; but every one is at first sight struck
with the ridiculousness of replacing the legend of the saints of the old calendar with the
days of the ass, the hog, the turnip, the onion, etc. Besides, if it was skillfully computed,
it was by no means conveniently divided.  I recall on this subject the remark of a man of much
wit, and who, notwithstanding the disapprobation which his remark implied, nevertheless desired
the establishment of the Republican system, everywhere except in the almanac.  When the decree
of the Convention which ordered the adoption of the Republican calendar was published, he remarked:
"They have done finely; but they have to fight two enemies who never yield, the beard, and
the white shirt."

     [That is to say, the barber and the washerwoman, for whom ten days
     was too long an interval.--TRANS.]

The truth is, the interval from one decadi to another was too long for the working-classes,
and for all those who were constantly occupied. I do not know whether it was the effect of
a deep-rooted habit, but people accustomed to working six days in succession, and resting on
the seventh, found nine days of consecutive labor too long, and consequently the suppression
of the decadi was universally approved.  The decree which ordered the publication of marriage
bans on Sunday was not so popular, for some persons were afraid of finding in this the revival
of the former dominance of the clergy over the civil authorities.

A few days after the solemn re-establishment of the catholic worship, there arrived at the
Tuileries a general officer, who would perhaps have preferred the establishment of Mahomet,
and the change of Notre Dame into a mosque.  He was the last general-in-chief of the army of
Egypt, and was said to have turned Mussulman at Cairo, ex-Baron de Menou.  In spite of the
defeat by the English which he had recently undergone in Egypt, General Abdallah-Menou was
well received by the First Consul, who appointed him soon after governor-general of Piedmont.
General Menou was of tried courage, and had given proof of it elsewhere, as well as on the
field of battle, and amid the most trying circumstances.

After the 10th of August, although belonging to the Republican party, he had accompanied Louis
Sixteenth to the Assembly, and had been denounced as a Royalist by the Jacobins.  In 1795 the
Faubourg Saint Antoine having risen en masse, and advanced against the Convention, General
Menou had surrounded and disarmed the seditious citizens; but he had refused to obey the atrocious
orders of the commissioners of the Convention, who decreed that the entire faubourg should
be burned, in order to punish the inhabitants for their continued insurrections.  Some time
afterwards, having again refused to obey the order these commissioners of the Convention gave,
to mow down with grapeshot the insurrectionists of Paris, he had been summoned before a commission,
which would not have failed to send him to the guillotine, if General Bonaparte, who had succeeded
him in the command of the army of the interior, had not used all his influence to save his
life.  Such repeated acts of courage and generosity are enough, and more than enough, to cause
us to pardon in this brave officer, the very natural pride with which he boasted of having
armed the National Guards, and having caused the tricolor to be substituted for the white flag.
The tricolor he called my flag.  From the government of Piedmont he passed to that of Venice;
and died in 1810 for love of an actress, whom he had followed from Venice to Reggio, in spite
of his sixty years.

The institution of the order of the Legion of Honor preceded by a few days the proclamation
of the Consulate for life, which proclamation was the occasion of a fete, celebrated on the
15th of August.  This was the anniversary of the birth of the First Consul, and the opportunity
was used in order to make for the first time this anniversary a festival. On that day the First
Consul was thirty-three years old.

In the month of October following I went with the First Consul on his journey into Normandy,
where we stopped at Ivry, and the First Consul visited the battlefield.  He said, on arriving
there, "Honor to the memory of the best Frenchman who ever sat upon the throne of France,"
and ordered the restoration of the column, which had been formerly erected, in memory of the
victory achieved by Henry the Fourth.  The reader will perhaps desire to read here the inscriptions,
which were engraved by his order, on the four faces of the pyramid.

                           First Inscription.

            NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, FIRST CONSUL, TO THE MEMORY
                OF HENRY THE FOURTH, VICTORIOUS OVER THE
                   ENEMIES OF THE STATE, ON THE FIELD
                       OF IVRY, 14TH MARCH, 1590.

                          Second Inscription.

          GREAT MEN LOVE THE GLORY OF THOSE WHO RESEMBLE THEM.

                           Third Inscription.

           THE 7TH BRUMAIRE, YEAR XI, OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC
                   NAPOLEON BONAPARTE, FIRST CONSUL,
           HAVING VISITED THIS FIELD, ORDERED THE REBUILDING
          OF THE MONUMENT DESTINED TO PERPETUATE THE MEMORY OF
                  HENRY IV., AND THE VICTORY OF IVRY.

                          Fourth Inscription.

              THE WOES EXPERIENCED BY FRANCE, AT THE EPOCH
                 OF THE BATTLE OF IVRY, WERE THE RESULT
        OF THE APPEAL MADE BY THE OPPOSING PARTIES IN FRANCE TO
             SPAIN AND ENGLAND.  EVERY FAMILY, EVERY PARTY
               WHICH CALLS IN FOREIGN POWERS TO ITS AID,
       HAS MERITED AND WILL MERIT, TO THE MOST DISTANT POSTERITY
                 THE MALEDICTION OF THE FRENCH PEOPLE.

All these inscriptions have since been effaced, and replaced by this, "On this spot Henry the
Fourth stood the day of the battle of Ivry, 14th March, 1590."

Monsieur Ledier, Mayor of Ivry, accompanied the First Consul on this excursion; and the First
Consul held a long conversation with him, in which he appeared to be agreeably impressed. 
He did not form so good an opinion of the Mayor of Evreux, and interrupted him abruptly, in
the midst of a complimentary address which this worthy magistrate was trying to make him, by
asking if he knew his colleague, the Mayor of Ivry.  "No, general," replied the mayor.  "Well,
so much the worse for you; I trust you will make his acquaintance."

It was also at Evreux that an official of high rank amused Madame Bonaparte and her suite,
by a naivete which the First Consul alone did not find diverting, because he did not like such
simplicity displayed by an official.  Monsieur de Ch---- did the honors of the country town
to the wife of the First Consul, and this, in spite of his age, with much zeal and activity;
and Madame Bonaparte, among other questions which. her usual kindness and grace dictated to
her, asked him if he was married, and if he had a family.  "Indeed, Madame, I should think
so," replied Monsieur de Ch---- with a smile and a bow, "j'ai cinq-z-enfants." --"Oh, mon Dieu,"
cried Madame Bonaparte, "what a regiment!  That is extraordinary; what, sir, seize enfants?"--"Yes,
Madame, cinq-z-enfants, cinq-z-enfants," repeated the official, who did not see anything very
marvelous in it, and who wondered at the astonishment shown by Madame Bonaparte.  At last some
one explained to her the mistake which la liaison dangereuse of M. de Ch had caused her to
make, and added with comic seriousness, "Deign, Madame, to excuse M. de Ch----.  The Revolution
has interrupted the prosecution of his studies."  He was more than sixty years of age.

From Evreux we set out for Rouen, where we arrived at three o'clock in the afternoon.  Chaptal,
Minister of the Interior, Beugnot, Prefect of the Department, and Cambaceres, Archbishop of
Rouen, came to meet the First Consul at some distance from the city.  The Mayor Fontenay waited
at the gates, and presented the keys.  The First Consul held them some time in his hands, and
then returned them to the mayor, saying to him loud enough to be heard by the crowd which surrounded
the carriage,

"Citizens, I cannot trust the keys of the city to any one better than the worthy magistrate
who so worthily enjoys my confidence and your own;" and made Fontenay enter his carriage, saying
he wished to honor Rouen in the person of its mayor.

Madame Bonaparte rode in the carriage with her husband; General Moncey, Inspector-general of
the Constabulary, on horseback on the right; in the second carriage was General Soult and his
aides-de-camp; in the third carriage, General Bessieres and M. de Lugay; in the fourth, General
Lauriston; then came the carriages of the personal attendants, Hambard, Hebert, and I being
in the first.

It is impossible to give an idea of the enthusiasm of the inhabitants of Rouen on the arrival
of the First Consul.  The market-porters and the boatmen in grand costume awaited us outside
the city; and when the carriage which held the two august personages was in sight, these brave
men placed themselves in line, two and two, and preceded thus the carriage to the hotel of
the prefecture, where the First Consul alighted. The prefect and the mayor of Rouen, the archbishop,
and the general commanding the division dined with the First Consul, who showed a most agreeable
animation during the repast, and with much solicitude asked information as to the condition
of manufactures, new discoveries in the art of manufacturing, in fact, as to everything relating
to the prosperity of this city, which was essentially industrial.

In the evening, and almost the whole night, an immense crowd surrounded the hotel, and filled
the gardens of the prefecture, which were illuminated and ornamented with allegorical transparencies
in praise of the First Consul; and each time he showed himself on the terrace of the garden
the air resounded with applause and acclamations which seemed most gratifying to him.

The next morning, after having made on horseback the tour of the city, and visited the grand
sites by which it is surrounded, the First Consul heard mass, which was celebrated at eleven
o'clock by the archbishop in, the chapel of the prefecture.  An hour after he had to receive
the general council of the department, the council of the prefecture, the municipal council,
the clergy of Rouen, and the courts of justice, and was obliged to listen to a half-dozen discourses,
all expressed in nearly the same terms, and to which he replied in such a manner as to give
the orators the highest opinion of their own merit.  All these bodies, on leaving the First
Consul, were presented to Madame Bonaparte, who received them with her accustomed grace, in,
the evening Madame Bonaparte held a reception for the wives of the officials, at which the
First Consul was present, of which fact some availed themselves to present to him several emigres,
who had recently returned under the act of amnesty, and whom he received graciously.

After which followed crowds, illuminations, acclamations, all similar to those of the evening
before.  Every one wore an air of rejoicing which delighted me, and contrasted strangely, I
thought, with the dreadful wooden houses, narrow, filthy streets, and Gothic buildings which
then distinguished the town of Rouen.

Monday, Nov. 1, at seven o'clock in the morning, the First Consul mounted his horse, and, escorted
by a detachment of the young men of the city, forming a volunteer guard, passed the bridge
of boats, and reached the Faubourg Saint-Sever.  On his return from this excursion, we found
the populace awaiting him at the head of the bridge, whence they escorted him to the hotel
of the prefecture, manifesting the liveliest joy.

After breakfast, there was a high mass by the archbishop, the occasion being the fete of All
Saints; then came the learned societies, the chiefs of administration, and justices of the
peace, with their speeches, one of which contained a remarkable sentence, in which these good
magistrates, in their enthusiasm, asked the First Consul's permission to surname him the great
justice of the peace of Europe.  As they left the Consul's apartment I noticed their spokesman;
he had tears in his eyes, and was repeating with pride the reply he had just received.

I regret that I do not remember his name, but I was told that he was one of the most highly
esteemed men in Rouen.  His countenance inspired confidence, and bore an expression of frankness,
which prepossessed me in his favor.

