"I am to say that Miss Pitstone likes it all very much, and has found some glorious things
to draw. Also an elderly gentleman who is sketching on the river has already promised her a
lesson."

"You'll be going down there sometime?" said Buntingford, turning an enquiring look on his nephew.

"The week-end after next," said Geoffrey--"unless Helena forbids it. I must inspect the inn,
which I recommended--and take stock of the elderly gentleman!"

The vision of Helena, in "fresh woods and pastures new" radiantly transfixing the affections
of the "elderly gentleman," put them both for the moment in spirits. Buntingford smiled, and
understanding that Geoffrey was writing to his ward, he left some special messages for her.

But in the days that followed he seldom thought of Helena. He buried his wife in the village
church-yard, and the wondering villagers might presently read on the headstone he placed over
her grave, the short inscription--"Anna Buntingford, wife of Philip, Lord Buntingford," with
the dates of her birth and death. The Alcotts, authorized by Philip, made public as much of
the story as was necessary, and the presence of the poor son and heir in the Welwyns' house,
together with his tragic likeness to his father, both completed and verified it. A wave of
unspoken but warm sympathy spread through the countryside. Buntingford's own silence was unbroken.
After the burial, he never spoke of what had happened, except on one or two rare occasions
to John Alcott, who had become his intimate friend. But unconsciously the attitude of his neighbours
towards him had the effect of quickening his liking for Beechmark, and increasing the probability
of his ultimate settlement there, at least for the greater part of the year.

Always supposing that it suited the boy--Arthur Philip--the names under which, according to
Zélie, he had been christened in the church of the hill village near Lucca where he was born.
For the care of this innocent, suffering creature became, from the moment of his mother's death,
the dominating thought of Buntingford's life. The specialist, who came down before her death,
gave the father however little hope of any favourable result from operation. But he gave a
confident opinion that much could be done by that wonderful system of training which modern
science and psychology combined have developed for the mentally deficient or idiot child. For
the impression left by the boy on the spectator was never that of genuine idiocy. It was rather
that of an imprisoned soul. The normal soul seemed somehow to be there; but the barrier between
it and the world around it could not be broken through. By the specialist's advice, Buntingford's
next step was to appeal to a woman, one of those remarkable women, who, unknown perhaps to
more than local or professional fame, are every year bringing the results of an ardent moral
and mental research to bear upon the practical tasks of parent and teacher. This woman, whom
we will call Mrs. Delane, combined the brain of a man of science with the passion of motherhood.
She had spent her life in the educational service of a great municipality, varied by constant
travel and investigation; and she was now pensioned and retired. But all over England those
who needed her still appealed to her; and she failed no one. She came down to see his son at
Buntingford's request, and spent some days in watching the child, with Cynthia as an eager
learner beside her.

