4. The Peace of Bretigny.--This Charles, eldest son of John, obtained by purchase the imperial
fief of Vienne, of which the counts had always been called Dauphins, a title thenceforth borne
by the heir apparent of the kingdom. His father's captivity and the submission of Paris left
him master of the realm; but he did little to defend it when Edward III. again attacked it,
and in 1360 he was forced to bow to the terms which the English king demanded as the price
of peace. The Peace of Bretigny permitted King John to ransom himself, but resigned to England
the sovereignty over the duchy of Aquitaine, and left Calais and Ponthieu in the hands of Edward
III. John died in 1364, before his ransom was paid, and his son mounted the throne as Charles
V. Charles showed himself from this time a wary, able man, and did much to regain what had
been lost by craftily watching his opportunity. The war went on between the allies of each
party, though the French and English kings professed to be at peace; and at the battle of Cocherel,
in 1364, Charles the Bad was defeated, and forced to make peace with France. On the other hand,
the French party in Brittany, led by Charles de Blois and the gallant Breton knight, Bertrand
du Guesclin, were routed, the same year, by the English party under Sir John Chandos; Charles
de Blois was killed, and the house of Montfort established in the duchy. These years of war
had created a dreadful class of men, namely, hired soldiers of all nations, who, under some
noted leader, sold their services to whatever prince might need them, under the name of Free
Companies, and when unemployed lived by plunder. The peace had only let these wretches loose
on the peasants. Some had seized castles, whence they could plunder travellers; others roamed
the country, preying on the miserable peasants, who, fleeced as they were by king, barons,
and clergy, were tortured and murdered by these ruffians, so that many lived in holes in the
ground that their dwellings might not attract attention. Bertrand du Guesclin offered the king
to relieve the country from these Free Companies by leading them to assist the Castilians against
their tyrannical king, Peter the Cruel. Edward, the Black Prince, who was then acting as Governor
of Aquitaine, took, however, the part of Peter, and defeated Du Guesclin at the battle of Navarete,
on the Ebro, in 1367.

5. Renewal of the War.--This expedition ruined the prince's health, and exhausted his treasury.
A hearth-tax was laid on the inhabitants of Aquitaine, and they appealed against it to the
King of France, although, by the Peace of Bretigny, he had given up all right to hear appeals
as suzerain. The treaty, however, was still not formally settled, and on this ground Charles
received their complaint. The war thus began again, and the sword of the Constable of France--the
highest military dignity of the realm--was given to Du Guesclin, but only on condition that
he would avoid pitched battles, and merely harass the English and take their castles. This
policy was so strictly followed, that the Duke of Lancaster was allowed to march from Brittany
to Gascony without meeting an enemy in the field; and when King Edward III. made his sixth
and last invasion, nearly to the walls of Paris, he was only turned back by famine, and by
a tremendous thunderstorm, which made him believe that Heaven was against him. Du Guesclin
died while besieging a castle, and such was his fame that the English captain would place the
keys in no hand but that of his corpse. The Constable's sword was given to Oliver de Clisson,
also a Breton, and called the "Butcher," because he gave no quarter to the English in revenge
for the death of his brother.